OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

K589w

V.I

I.

a

A Romance FOB QUIET PEOPLE.

II faudrait avoir le courage de ne se preoccupied ni des success du
salon ni de opinion de la presse, ni de l'eventualite des recompenses, et
ne s'inquieter que de se contenter soi-meme." — Alfred Stephens, Impressions
sur peinture.

Wholesomeness is the salt of life." — Spanish Proverb.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

IJubltsfjers in ordinary to f^cr fHajrstj tfje ©iicm.

1887.

(Jew rights reserved.)

v/.JL

v
n

i

TO

MRS. LYNN LINTON.

Chapter PAGE

I. The Frame of the Picture . 1

II. A Dozen Sets of Stairs and a

Hundred Doors . - . 7

III. The Old Captain of the Good Ship

doddingstead keeps a bad look out

Ahead . . . 30

IV. Don Carlos . . . 54

V. The Maiden of the East Stairs . 74

VI. The Hero resembles a Wax Doll 94

VII. Sir Peter Grandison, and the Disgraceful
Conduct of Mr. Gregoo . 118
VIII. Jenny Spilled compares Matrimony

to a Pie . . . 143

IX. The Whitepatch Ball . . 167

X. "Misfortunes never come Alone,"
and the Story creeps up the Inevitable
Hill of True Life 189

CHAPTER } J A<1K

XI. The Housekeeper who " had such a
Talent for keeping People in
Order," and the North tramples
on the South . . . 206

XII. The Robbery and Murder of Mr.

VjtREGO . . . ~o L

XIII. The Colonel upsets his Jug of

Shaving Water, and the Dainty
Mrs. Spilled covers herself with
Dirt and Cobwebs . . 247

XIV. The King of Zanzibar saves himself

from Banishment by taking Arsenic 259
XV. Silence reigns in the Wooden Tower,
and the Terrible Spirit of the
Old Dairy again appears . 274

-fcC*-

CHAPTER I.

THE FRAME OF THE PICTURE.

In that extremely healthy and pleasant
corner which lies to the south-east and in
the morning sun of old England called
East Kent, there remain to this day evidences
of the active smuggling which was
formerly carried on there with the neighbouring
coast of France, not only of wine,
spirits, tea and tobacco and articles of dress,
but also of priests, bishops, and even
cardinals and other human contraband in
the time of the great civil and religious
vol. i. 1

disturbances. Some of its charming old
black and white houses, and even its
churches, still contain their ingenious
hiding-places, both for the race of Adam
and for kegs of brandy. Could human
nature resist the facilities of a short run
from the opposite coast, when tea was
twenty shillings a pound, and other things
in proportion ? One side was thirsting for
English gold, the other for luxuries and
fineries that were practically prohibited ;
and, like a pair of ardent lovers, they evaded
law, locks, tempests, and steel, to rush into
each other's arms. Could such a convenient
and out-of-the-way corner, with its
intricate ill-made roads, without sign-posts,
reliable maps, or willing guides, and near
an almost deserted shore, with safety insight
across the water, tail to be discovered
by the ingenious Italians, agents of Rome,

and the hunted political and religious
refugees who swarmed in this country at
well-known periods of agitation, when
human conscience and life were at stake ?

In the smuggling of goods, not only did
the squires and farmers and the country
people enter heartily into the business, but
even the parsons and their churchwardens —
as is to be verified by places which the
natives call " hides," until recently to be
seen, before the restoration movement, in
the roofs of some of the churches and the
cellars and dairies of old parsonage houses.
The numerous natural caves in the chalk
land, called by the inhabitants " chalk
holes," were also turned to good account,
and their entrance was concealed by barns
or other outbuildings, or skilfully masked
by thick underwood. As far as the writer
is aware, these irregular proceedings of the

old inhabitants of this interesting part of
England have never yet been brought much
into fiction ; but in this later part of the
nineteenth century, what angel from
heaven has any longer a divine right to
privacy and exclusion, or to set up a brick
wall against impertinence and profitable
curiosity ? He has been ruled out of court,
and the writer in the performance of his
duty to society can only honestly endeavour
to trample down his neighbours'
fences with as gentle a laugh and as kindly
a face as the imperative circumstances will
allow. Neither, perhaps, has the charm of
their old houses, with their ghosts, hiding-places,
and old gardens, their hundred
doors, their endless strange staircases and
passages, caught the eye of the painter or
the writer with the full attention they
deserve.

Although this story is placed near the
present time, it must of necessity be cast
somewhat on the romantic lines of an elder
school of fiction, to be in harmony with the
surroundings and their associations ; hence
it will probably be found a jumble of old
and new styles, — somewhat as the milliners
revive an old fashion with skilful modifications,
and pass it off on the public as a new
one. In the present case it is better for
the author honestly to confess his trick of
combination, and pray devoutly for a little
of the skill of those accomplished ladies !
Some of the leading incidents and descriptions
are founded on a fair modicum of fact ;
the one in particular of an old library and
its secret hiding-places will be painted from
actual still life with some care, though with
the artist's privilege of treatment which
the nature of the composition demands.

It is the author's duty, while his reader
is fresh, to take him through some rather
tiresome description. It is, however, necessary
that he should have a clear general
knowledge of the remarkable old house in
which the scene is laid, and in some cases
even to the point of minute particularity ;
otherwise he will find it difficult to understand
the exact places haunted by the
ghosts, the various strange hiding-places —
one of which only will at present be
described — the somewhat eccentric habits
of the family, and the plot of the story, in
which the old house plays a very important
part, being in truth almost one of the
dramatis persona?.

CHAPTER II.

A DOZEN SETS OF STAIRS AND A HUNDRED

DOORS.

Whitepatch (called in its native county
Whi'puth) is the name of a very ancient
manor in East Kent. It derives this from
the first house — probably a farm building
or stead called indiscriminately in old deeds
Witepatche and Doddingestede — being
built on a patch of bare chalk land, little
spots of which still show in the neighbourhood
of the house like the soiled remnants
of departing snow. The present house,
although a grandchild only of the first, is
by no means modern, as the greater part of

the existing structure was built, as far as it
is possible to make out through the mist of
contending authorities, in the early part of
the reign of James the First. It has not
only one, but several ghosts, although
their histories all belong to the last house ;
one is charming, another is terrible, and
the third is sad and perplexing. It has
several secret hiding-places — some with
double exits — and the strange rambling old
house is a veritable place of enchantment
for those who love that kind of thing, and
have the power of constructive imagination
to enter into its past, and a good conscience
that fears not the visitants of another
world. Its outside almost defies description,
so irregular is its plan, and so numerous
are its gables and projections. It would
seem as if it had been built expressly to
baffle an inquisitorial eye, as to the space

and disposition of its interior. It is chiefly
black and white, with a roof covered with
red tiles, evidently from different makers,
many of them almost black from age ;
and it has a quaint old porch at the
entrance, with an inner and outer door,
stone seats within, and a little window on
one side.

The house is surrounded with many
charming little gardens, inclosed with brick
walls of different heights and construction,
some with raised terraces and broad walks,
bordered round with ancient rose and other
trees, so homely and pleasant, the visitor
lingers with regret at having to leave
them. Most of them have been formed
during the time of the present house, except
one, which has thick stone walls with lines
of brickwork, and is supposed to have
belonged to the second house built in the

time of Edward the Third. There are snug
arbours in snug corners, doors with porticoes
of fanciful brickwork of much simple
beauty and ingenuity. Some gardens are
square, one is long (the Long Garden) »
another is irregular, with odd corners and
walls higher than any of the others, called
the Magnolia Garden, though there is no
magnolia in it, another garden apparently
having been found better for them, as
several fine ones now flourish in one of the
square gardens. So individual are they
all, that one is impressed with the idea that
succeeding generations felt it their duty to
make a garden as a protest against the
taste of their predecessors ; and yet they
have a strong family likeness — delightful
in the summer with their fine old flowers,
terraces, arbours, and buzzing insects, and
warm and sheltered in winter. The Long

Garden lias an interesting peculiarity. In
one of the walls is inserted a long line of
tombstones recording the life, death, and
virtues of a famous family of terriers now
extinct. It is remarkable to observe how
many of them met with a violent death.
Another garden, much larger than the rest,
joins itself to this little colony ; this is the
kitchen garden, surrounded with high solid
brick walls, into which there is an entrance
from the stables, and another entrance
communicates with the back court of the
house. Over the building, in a line with
the entrance porch, rises a wooden tower,
with a quaint old clock, surmounted by
a curious and ancient vane in the form
of a peacock.

We now enter the house, with its endless
passages, staircases, and doors by the
hundred, so complicated and difficult to

describe, that the writer can only throw
down material for the reader to form his
own picture — which, doubtless, will be the
best after all.

You enter the hall, not by the centre,
but by the left-hand corner. This is a
wide, spacious place, which impresses you
at once with its marked character. It is
very low, with many beams in the ceiling,
on which are remains of what is fondly
supposed to be Saxon carving ; it is, however
with reasonable certainty considered
to be a part of the original house, and to
have been the kitchen and general living
room of that primitive establishment. In
its present state it is panelled with dark
oak, formed into small square panels, the
alternate ones of which are carved much
after the manner of an old oak chest ; the
doors and their frames are to match, with

tiny carved panels running round the
latter. The great fireplace is in the centre
of the hall, facing you as you enter, almost
human in its suggestiveness, and with its
mantelpiece runs up to the ceiling.
Opposite this, on your right, is a long
high window, running the length of the
hall, which is filled with stained glass,
representing the arms of the family and
the endless other families with whom they
have been allied. The hall is furnished ina
comfortable, old-fashioned way, and is the
common property of the house at odd
moments, and much used in the summer.
So far, all is plain sailing enough. There
are five doors in this hall, and if their
position and where they lead to is carried
well in mind, they will, it is hoped,
prove a key to the house, which is as
intricate as a rabbit-warren or the old

Ship Hotel at Brighton. The first door
as you enter the hall on the left is the
Colonel's room ; another door on the same
side beyond opens on the west stairs. A
swing-door in the left hand corner, vis-a-vis
to the front door, leads to the kitchen department.
In the far corner to the right,
facing the window, is a curious door folding
into two parts, raised on a low step about
four inches in height — a famous trap for
the unwary — this opens on another little
hall, in which is the drawing-room door to
the right, and the east stairs in front of
you. Between this door and the window,
in the hall on the right, is the dining-room
door.

The " Colonel's room ' is the sanctum
sanatorium of the old Squire, Colonel Dod-instead,
formerly of the 16th Lancers, a
regiment of which he is very proud. No

one dare address him as " Squire," however,
except on Christmas Day, when it is
graciously allowed. It is a large square
panelled room, with deep cupboards and a
long low window with a broad ledge. In
this room many scenes in the story will
take place.

You open the door of the west stairs
and find yourself on a steep break-neck
flight with deep steps ; half-way upon
the left you come to three steep steps,
which take you to a strong narrow oak
door. This leads to the Bride's Chamber,
a charming room with two dressing-closets,
and open to the full south. One of the
closets is over the porch, with two pleasant
windows and a little fireplace. Old rose
trees outside cluster over the windows in
summer.

k.t the top of the west stairs you come

to another door. This leads into a wilderness
of passages, closets, doors, and rooms
the Colonel's bedroom ; Miss Nodding
room (his daughter); his dead son's
room ; the Green Chimney room ; the Oak
room ; the Rice-closet room ; the Four-door
room, with their dressing-rooms and
endless doors. Many rooms communicate
with each other, having three doors; nearly
all with deep closets that would hold half
a dozen men. The passages turn and
twist, mount up and descend, with two
doors and a space between them at certain
points, in such an unintelligible manner
that they defied all modern attempts to
make out their reason.

Another staircase with a door leads up
from these passages to the attic and store-rooms
above, the apple-room, the box-room,
the maids-room, now a lumber-room, and

the servants' sleeping-rooms. A third set
of stairs go down to the kitchens.

The swing-door in the hall leads to
another extraordinary labyrinth of kitchens,
back kitchens, servants' hall, housekeeper's
room, pantries, store-closets,
linen-room, plate-room, maids' work-room,
the farmers' room, the brewery, the old
and new dairy, the cider-room with its
great press — no longer used, the laundry,
larders, cellars, and the Brick Chimney
room with its very remarkable old board
of great width, cut from a tree struck by
lightning, on which to brush the gentlemen's
clothes.

We will stay an instant at the door of the
housekeeper's room to say " Good-day " to
the great Mr. Harrison the butler, and his
skilful wife, housekeeper and head cook.
Would the gentlemen like a glass of old

VOL. I. 2

ale, and wouldn't the ladies like to see the
plate-room ? The ale is drunk — it must
be ! — the plate-room visited, and we return
again to the old hall.

On our way we encounter a very fair
good-looking young woman, with a certain
air of superiority, and charmingly dressed,
as neatly and freshly as if she had just
come .out of the basket from the laundry
this is Mrs. Spilled, maid and confidential
friend of the heroine, Mary Dod-instead,
the Squire's granddaughter and
heiress.

We now come to the haunted part of
the house (excepting the old dairy — not
at present to be described — which is under
the entrance hall, and which is haunted by
the " terrible " spirit mentioned before,
where was supposed to be the entrance
to the subterranean passage leading to the

church — lost to the family at the time the
story opens). Passing through the door
that folds back in the middle, we seethe
east stairs mounting up straight a
long way before us. Halfway up the first
flight — there are two in a direct line — is
a door on the left, this leads to the clock
tower and the roof. At the top of the first
flight is a small landing with a door
generally left open. From this landing
to the right a short flight of stairs ascends
to a passage. In this the first door on the
left is the Don Quixote room, a gloomy,
dismal place with a window near the
ground, and the walls painted with the
history of Don Quixote and his philosophical
squire — a room much haunted by
the maiden of the east stairs — generally
allotted to young bachelors.

The next door to the left is the White

Closets' room, so called from two large
closets, or dressing-rooms, which open out
of it ; these are panelled and painted
white. This is the state bedroom. On
the right is a peculiar-looking low door
opposite the door of the White Closets'
room. This opens into the old library,
haunted by one of the squires, Richard
Doddingstead, who shot his son through
the window in the dark, when he joined the
Government at the time of the Jacobites,
and brought a party of them to search the
house for a refugee. This room is too
serious to be lightly mixed up with other
descriptions, as it contains the ghostly
writing on the window and two secret
hiding-places. We return, then, to the
first landing.

On looking up the second flight of steps
you see fronting you the full length

portrait of a young girl of about seventeen,
in a white dress with a red flower
in her hair. This has a pale oval face of
great sweetness, with sad, shy, dark eyes,
dark brows, tan-coloured hair, and a full
sensitive mouth of a deep crimson red
(a beautiful and interesting face), and
is the portrait of Margaret Doddingstead,
who haunts all this part of the house,
except the old library, where she has
never been seen.

Ill-treated and even beaten by her step-grandmother
— time, latter part of the reign
of James the First — for not renouncing her
lover, one Ralph Spilled, a wild youth —
she had been shut up on a bitter winter
night in the Don Quixote room, whence she
escaped by the window (one of her shoes
was found in a bush underneath) to the
seashore : there she was discovered the

next morning by a fisherman lying dead
under an upturned boat, where she had
crept for shelter ; and (tradition saith)
"her face was whiter than the foam."
The grandfather turned his wife out of
doors, and made her pass a night in the
garden ; but she lived long enough to setup
a very handsome monument to his
memory and her own, according to the
fashion set by James the First, and which
will afterwards be seen in the old church,
when we come to the rediscovery of the
underground passage.

On the right of the picture, at the top of
the second flight, is another door, high and
narrow, by this you again mount two steep
steps into a long straight passage from
which open numerous other rooms, seldom
used unless there is a press of visitors at
the Manor. Out of this, one staircase

leads up to more servants' rooms above,
and at the extreme end of the passage,
another descends to the offices below.
This latter has a strange peculiarity,
having doors at the top and bottom and
another in the middle, intended, it is said,
to facilitate an escape by these stairs.

A short way down the passage on the
right another door leads down by a short
handsome flight of winding stairs to the
Children's Garden — a delightful little set
of rooms all to themselves, consisting of
a panelled sitting-room, rather low, but
square and comfortable, with pleasant
windows, one forming a deep recess ;
two bedrooms, panelled also, and another
small room — at this time turned into a
carpenter's shop for our heroine — and a
small entrance hall at the bottom of the
stairs, from whence another wooden stairs

leads down outside the walls into one of
the little gardens we have mentioned, a
sheltered, pretty place, and only overlooked
by the windows of the rooms just
mentioned .

In the little hall was a large closet under
the stairs, into which you could only enter
by stepping over a high board at the
bottom of the door. This whole set belonged
to the second house (time, Edward
the Third), and had always been used as
the nursery until recently. The whole
little block was called indiscriminately the
Children's Garden.

This was occupied by our heroine, Mary
Doddingstead ; her maid, Jenny Spilled ;
her monkey, the King of Zanzibar ; her
parrot, the famous Mr. Gregoo ; and in
the garden below by her white goat, the
Queen of Sheba ; several stoats ; Poacher,

an old weasel ; some ferrets, and a cage of
rats.

We return now to the bottom of the
east stairs. Standing at the door that
folds into two parts on our right in the
little hall is a large cupboard door. A little
way beyond it, on the same side, is the
drawing-room. We first enter here. It is
a fine, well-proportioned room, panelled
throughout ; the room is hung with family
portraits of all sizes, and with old mirrors.
The old furniture is in harmony with the
place ; it is lighted by three windows, of
which the one in the centre is larger than
the others. At the end of this room, near
the entrance door on the right as you go
in, is a large old japanned cabinet, with
a writing-place at the bottom and with
glass above. Inside is a closely packed
collection of stuffed birds.

At the far end of the room, to the left
of the fireplace, a door leads into a small
but pleasant room, called the morning-room,
which opens into the Magnolia
Garden, and has an exit on the left to
the servants' quarters ; and beyond this
room again is another small room full
of old china, glass, and the countless little
treasures that accumulate in an old country
house. The morning-room is the exclusive
property of Miss Doddingstead, the old
Squire's daughter, where she plays at
housekeeping, although she has little real
authority in the house.

We return to the hall, and visit the
dining-room, a square good-sized room,
again panelled, and with handsome wooden
ceiling painted by an Italian hand, two old
clocks, portraits, sea pictures, and landscapes,
with a curious old walnut-wood

buffet, which rises high to display the plate
on state occasions ; two windows with deep
seats and cupboards underneath, and a beautiful
steel fender on the hearth brought from
Toledo. Once more we return to the door
which folds into two parts. On the right is
the cupboard door we have mentioned, which
goes down to the ground, and on opening it
you disclose a simple place with rows of
narrow shelves for jam pots or other preserves.
But on taking hold of the middle
shelf and pulling outwards, the whole back
of the closet slides out towards you, and
then turns like a door on its hinges, and you
find a narrow entrance to a little long room
inside, between the walls of the diningroom
and drawing-room. On entering,
you are surprised to find that you can see
distinctly through the cabinet of stuffed
birds into the drawing-room, that there are

glass doors at the back of the cabinet
which open inwards to the little room, and
the occupant can open these, pass his hand
through the birds, push open the other
glass doors and find himself in communication
through the birds with any one who
may be in the drawing-room. At the end
of this little room, high up, was a bed-place
in the wall, as one sees in Dutch or
Swiss cottages to this day. Low down in
the right hand corner at the bed end was
a small tunnel, so to speak, which communicated
with one of the side cupboards
of the buffet in the dining-room, and the
occupant could be comfortably nourished
by a skilful and devoted attendant — even
should his enemies be seated at table in
the dining-room — and it is alleged that
one of the most important secrets of the
Government during the time of William

the Third was surprised in this way.
Over the bed was a sliding panel by
which a second refuge could be found incase
of extreme danger in another little
dark chamber over this one, between the
Don Quixote and the White Closets-room
above.

The house has the singular, most
singular good fortune, for one of these old
houses, by a happy accident (doubtless
at the time thought to be a defect), to have
all its principal rooms looking to the
south and east. Altogether it is a warm,
cheerful, and pleasant abode that one does
not easily get tired of — for those who from
long habit regard its ghostly visitants as
part of the establishment.

CHAPTER HI.

THE OLD CAPTAIN OF THE GOOD SHIP DOD-instead
KEEPS A BAD LOOK OUT
AHEAD.

There are two ways of conducting a
story which are most commonly observed.
One is to dash the reader off at a great
pace, and then to proceed with more and
more deliberation until the journey ends.
The other, is to proceed very quietly for
the first few miles, then to whip up your
horses to the best of their going powers
for the rest of the journey, taking care,
however, to bring them into the stables a
little cooled down at the end. The latter

is the mode of proceeding adopted by the
writer.

If human beings were constructed like
watches or steam, engines, how comparatively
easy it would be to draw their
characters with consistency of action.
Perhaps the weather bears the closest
analogy to ourselves in unexpectedness
and inconsistency. For, indeed, as we all
know, some of us are more difficult and
infinitely more tiresome to calculate on
than even the weather at spring time.
Others, again, can be gauged with tolerable
nicety as to what they will do in any
given circumstance of life. Fortunately
(for the writer) the chief types of character
that will appear in the present little story
are of the latter kind, having that quality
we call obstinacy which, however obstructive,
trying, and difficult it may be sometimes

to cope with, has nevertheless, when
joined to goodness and sturdy honesty,
a constancy and loyalty that can at any
rate be relied upon. Obstinacy has also
another fine quality that endears itself in
the long run to those who are brought
closely into contact with it — the power of
attaching itself so firmly that no abuse or
depreciation of others, no misfortune or
poverty, or even indeed ill-treatment and'
careless neglect on your part (it must be
careless and not deliberate), will destroy
its affection for you. But on the other
hand, a cold-blooded wound to its affection,
its pride, ay, or its humility (of all the
most sensitive), or a direct slight or want
of appreciation of its good-will and intention
towards you will never be forgiven,
as being the worst crime against its own
nature.

Mary Doddingstead was an orphan who
had lived in much seclusion from the outer
world. After the early deaths of her
father and mother, her grandfather had
retired from the world and society as much
as his position as an active magistrate and
county magnate would allow. She had,
however, been educated with great care
under a highly accomplished Dutch-woman,
Miss Yan Tromp, the daughter
of a distinguished artist who had died
leaving little but an honoured name. This
lady, however, held advanced Radical
opinions which the simple old Colonel had
never even suspected or discovered, having
taken her on trust on the warm recommendations
of friends. He was himself a
staunch Conservative of the knotted-oak
kind, on whom no political storms or social
change of any kind had any appreciable

VOL. I. 3

effect. Miss Van Tromp had, however,
behaved honestly to her charge in this
respect, as in others ; but the quick perceptions
of Mary had not failed to catch
by intuition the bias of her governess's
mind from the books and matters which
they discussed together. Her high moral
character and strong sense of duty had,
however, equally impressed themselves on
her pupil's mind. She had returned to
her own country about six months before
the opening of this story, and Jenny
Spilled had taken her place as friend and
companion to Mary. Nor had our heroine
gained any knowledge of general society
and the world through the second-hand
medium of novels, as the old Colonel would
never allow one to enter the house, if he
could help it. Mary had, however, read
much modern literature, and for a secluded

girl of her age was remarkably well-informed
on the general topics of the day,
and had some real and sound knowledge
of music, painting, and foreign languages,
having worked hard from the age of eight
to seventeen under Miss Van Tromp. Her
general appearance may be briefly described
in saying she strongly resembled the
picture of Margaret Doddingstead. Some
thought her only interesting and distinguished,
many thought her beautiful,
but all acknowledged she had a remarkably
pretty figure, and that she had sincere
and natural manners. She certainly had
very beautiful rich dark eyes, and a ripe
mouth with a very sweet expression. Her
eyes, however, had sometimes that far-off
look which belongs to those who have an
alarming facility for slipping away from
this crushing world, if adversity or misfortune

should press them too closely to
the wall. Jenny Spilled thought Miss
Yan Tromp " would have worked her to
death " if she had stayed much longer ; but
this young person may have been a little
jealous on hearing so often of the virtues
and accomplishments of the Dutchman.

But Jenny Spilled must now have a
word on her own account, as she is our
supplementary heroine who will play a
very leading part in this story.

She was a capital specimen of the human
cob, round, firm and well built, active and
bright in movement, of invincible courage
up-hill, knocking up more showy animals
and gaining the owner's warmest affection.
She had fine penetrating blue eyes, and
bright wavy fair hair of remarkable length
and abundance, a broad forehead well
developed over the brows, a brilliant fair

complexion, and a generous mouth with
much spirit and firmness, a short audacious
nose, which, however, was pretty and
individual, a roundish face, and a very
well-formed little chin. Her history was
somewhat remarkable. She was the
daughter and only child of John Spilled,
head coachman at the Manor, formerly
faithful friend and servant of Mary's
father. Detained by illness at Bologna
on his way home, his servant fell in love
with one of the sturdy daughters of that
most hard-headed aristocratic and exclusive
race the Boulogne fishermen. After having
conveyed his master safely across the water,
John returned, and with the magnet of his
fine blue eyes and his courteous manners
drew his lady love also across the water in
the Boulogne steamer, and married her after
a tremendous fuss, and four French luggers

8 WHITE PATCH.

coming with much jabbering into Folkestone
harbour in pursuit of him. The
Colonel so admired the bride and this
daring act of the two lovers, that he
enabled her to assist her father in settii
up a new lugger, which appeased the old
fisherman's aristocratic pride in a remarkable
manner. John Spilled was the son of
the famous Tom Spilled, huntsman at the
Manor when the Doddingsteads kept the
hounds, a local celebrity of whom many
stories are told to this day of his skill and
daring in the field. Tom Spilled was son
of John Spilled, Esq., of Ixstead, in the
county of Kent, gentleman, of a good old
family in East Kent of the thorn-tree
kind (for may not old families be compared
to trees in many ways ? some
growing up into lordly consequence and
spreading out many fine branches that

overshadow their neighbours, and others
which may be even older and yet ever
remaining much as they were). This
gentleman was wild and extravagant beyond
all measure, from his youth upwards
ever in the hands of the Jews, and finally
dying in a madhouse without an acre or a
penny in the world.

Jenny Spilled had little resemblance to
her beautiful dark-eyed mother, except in
the character of mind belonging to her
race, their sturdy good sense and independence,
and their manner of regarding
tidings au point de vue absolu ; but she had
her buxom figure, personal strength and
elasticity, though without clumsiness, and
that air of something out of the common
herd peculiar to the Boulogne tribe. She
had also a way of balancing herself on her
hips that, given the dress, one would never

have been surprised to see her standing
with her arms akimbo or dragging in a
lugger into Boulogne harbour. And yet
she showed her father's race in the delicacy
of her skin and ears, in the fineness of her
wrists and ankles, and in the small waist
which her mother had not. Her hands
had short ringers, with square tips and
extremely short flat nails, which were however
delicate and pink. Altogether she
was the happy result often seen from a
union of pure French and English blood
that has been a true love match.

Jenny Spilled was about five years older
than her young mistress. She had been her
friend, protector in ordinary, and playfellow
at odd times from Mary's childhood, and
possessed not a little influence over her.
She had been sent by her father to a very
good school at Canterbury, and nearly the

whole of his high wages had been spent on
her education ; but it had been her early
passion to become a milliner and dressmaker,
for the pure love of it, and for which
no doubt she had great natural taste and
capacity. Against her father's wishes she
had been placed with the great Madame de

Gros, in Street, so famous for her taste

and skill, her rapacity, her obligingness,
and her bullying carried to a fine art.
After spending five years there, her father
declared he would have her no longer
remain in such a " devil's hothouse," and
she returned and entered Mary's service.
She had, however, a reason of her own for
so doing, or she would not have shown
such an exemplary example of obedience to
parents. She was a great reader and close
observer, as well as remarkably skilful with
her hands ; but she gave at first some

trouble in the house from her independence
of character and what the old Colonel called
her " unruly tongue." Mrs. Poyser washer
great heroine and model. She would
allow no one to enter her mistress's rooms,
and did all the cleaning herself. This gave
rise to her great squabble with Mr. and
Mrs. Harrison, in which also the Colonel
and Miss Doddingstead were against her,
but Mary was on her side, and she carried
her point.

Mary had just returned from a visit of
six weeks into Gloucestershire, the first
and only visit she had ever paid, and
although she looked happy in a certain
way, those who knew her best observed
that she had a different expression and
manner from her ordinary one, which did
not even escape the Colonel's eye, little
given to studying faces ; but he only

thought it was the relaxing air of other
English counties. Her visit, which was
to have been a short one, had been prolonged
in a manner somewhat incomprehensible
to her grandfather, but as he was
intent on fabricating a new lubricator for
the old clock in the tower (which he would
allow no one to touch or even repair but
himself), the time had passed rapidly, as
it does to our elders, and he grumblingly
assented to her remaining, though he
missed her continually, and daily asked
when she was coming home.

It was a fine October morning, and
Mary was seated in an armchair in her
sitting-room, with a letter of many sheets
in her hand. Mrs. Spilled (she must have
now her proper title) was cleaning out the
cage of Mr. Gregoo.

11 What shall I do, Spilled ? " said Mary,

taking up one of the sheets from her la),
arranging it with the others, and smoothing
them tenderly between her fingers.

I know what / should do, ma'am '
(Mary was always addressed as " ma'am,"
by the Colonel's orders), "I should coax
the Colonel out for a ride, and tell him
all about it, and that he must give his
consent."

You do not know him as well as I do,
Spilled ; I fear he never will. Captain
Wyldeman says he cannot think why grand-papa
has such a deadly dislike to his
father, unless it was something that
happened between the in, when they were
both in the same regiment together, and
that our only chance is to marry without
his knowing it, and then he will be obliged
to forgive me — but I will never do that."
said Mary, her eyes looking far into space.

Did you ever bear anything, Spilled, about
Sir John and grandpa ? "

I have heard a little, ma'am, from
father. He says every one knows they had
a disagreement, and that it must have been
about a lady ; but Mr. Harrison says he
believes it was something very bad about
money, and that Sir John is like all his
family, a little queer."

No, not all, Spilled. I am sure Captain
Wyldeman is good ; and Lady Worthing-ham
says he is quite different from the
rest of his family."

Here a violent scream from Mr. Gregoo,
who objected to Spilled's somewhat rapid
way of arranging his domestic comforts.

Naughty bird ! " cried Mary with unusual
irritation.

Oh, ma'am," resumed Spilled, when the
bird had been quieted, " I dare say it's

nothing very bad, it is only the Colonel,
who is so plump down in his notions, it is
impossible for some people to please him."

I fear it is worse than that, from the
look in his face, when Aunt Augusta said
something yesterday about the Wyldenians."

Oh, ma'am, but this is a very different
affair, when a real young gentleman who
cares for you, and you care for him, and
who has got everything else in money and
all that, wants to marry you ; he can't say
No ' only because he and the young gentleman's
father don't agree."

I am afraid he is getting very impatient,"
said Mary, glancing at her letter.
He talks of coming down here. I wish I
had written and told grandpa at once."

1 don't agree with you at all, Miss
Mary," said Spilled, warming to her
subject, and forgetting proscribed conventionalities

; " a little bit of coaxing, with
a nice kiss, is worth all the letters in the
world when you want to get the better of
a man. Men are mostly slow, and they get
time to set their brains hard when they sit
down deep over a letter ; but if you can only
catch a ' Yes ' out of them, they keep to it
for the most part, I must say, for men don't
like to have it thought they go from their
word, however much they would like to."

"Do you think an impatient man would
make a bad husband, Spilled ? He is
certainly impatient," said Mary, pursuing
her own train of thought.

No, indeed, ma'am ! they are much the
easiest to manage. It's the cool ones you

can't get round.

V

And it's only a little more than three
years to wait, and then I can do as I like,
I suppose, really. But I won't disobey

grandpa. I have quite made up my
mind to that."

I shouldn't wait three years ! ' said
Spilled. " Men are always on the move,
and women are so artful, and men are so
scarce and so weak, you never know who
may not entice him away from you ; and
who knows, also, the Colonel may be finding
some one else for you."

Mary, at this dreadful thought, looked
very sad ; but she said, " she was certain
Captain Wyldeman would never change to
her, if he had to wait even till her grandfather's
death."

But you seem quite altered, Miss Mary,
and not to be as sprightly as you used, — but
that comes of caring too much for a man ;
when a woman does that she may just as
well take to her bed at once, like other sick
folks."

Oh, the king ! what is he doing,
Spilled ? " exclaimed Mary.

The king was the small monkey, who,
taking advantage of the unusual absence of
vigilant inspection was deliberately tearing
photographs out of an album. When this
melancholy exile from a land of refreshing
cocoanut, and a temperature of one hundred
and twenty degrees, had been restored to
order, Mary returned to the dominant key
of her difficulty.

I am certain he will say no, Spilled ;
and nothing on earth will make him alter
his mind. It was very wrong of me to
make an engagement ; but he pleaded so
hard, and I had quite made up my mind I
should never care for any one else now."

Don't you be too sure of that, ma'am ;

lovers are like everything else that's nice

to the taste, till you get hold of something
vol. i. 4

else that is quite as nice, or perhaps nicer.
I would never let any man think he was
quite sure of me, until I was actually
stitched to his back by the parson, and
even then it isn't quite safe to let a man
think he is the only sweet stuff in the
world ; they are apt to turn sour, and not
to keep well if you do that."

Poor Mary opened her eyes a little at
this philosophical love-making, and reflected
that Miss Yan Tromp's receipts for this
kind of thing, when she had ever condescended
to express an opinion on the subject,
were of a very different nature, tending
rather to entire trust and submission to
the divine hero of a woman's affections ;
but, then, Miss Yan Tromp had never had
a lover, as the honest creature frankly
avowed, and we all know distance lends
enchantment, even in the matter of lovers,

but she only said, " What can I do, if he
does refuse, Jenny ? '

But you mustn't let him say ' No,' Miss
Mary ; you must say 'Yes ! yes ! yes ! ' and
stick to it. Old gentlemen are all very well
when they keep to their marriage parchments
and all that kind of thing, to seethe
lawyers and other people's relations
are not digging a sly advantage somewhere
; but when they come to put their
finger into Cupid's cobweb, they must be
taught that they are spoiling something
worth all the old gentlemen in the world,
and that can never be put together
again."

But you forget, Spilled, that grand-papa
has our name to consider ; and the
Doddingsteads have always been very
particular about their marriages and their
good name."

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

The young heiress was not pleased at
Spilled's tone about her grandfather.

Well, yes, Miss Mary, I quite enter
into all that also. Good blood is a delicate
matter to deal with, I know, though it is
from being too nice that it sometimes gets
thin and poor ; and I know a good name
is often blown away as easily as a thistle.
But when it only comes to crotchets and
quarrels, there is more of pride in it than
anything else ; and the Colonel would be
worse than silly to put his feelings before
yours. But gentle folks are three parts
made up of feeling this and feeling that
about something or another that plain
folks don't feel anything about at all. You
may be sure that it is only something about
Sir John that wasn't nice and as it ought
to be ; if it was anything very dreadful,
every one would know what is was, and

nobody seems to know anything exactly, —
besides, you don't want to marry Sir
John."

Mary was a little encouraged by this
common-sense view of matters.

I will go and see if I can find him,
Jenny," and she departed, patting her hair
with both hands as she went out of the
room.

CHAPTER IV.

DON CARLOS.

Colonel Doddingstead had a passion for
clockwork. In bis younger days, when
travelling with his tutor, he had obstinately
persisted in remaining some time at Geneva,
to be initiated into the mysteries of this
delicate art. On his return home, he had
triumphantly established his talent in this
direction by setting on it legs after many
years silence the old clock in the tower,
which had been tinkered at by all the
watchmakers in Canterbury, and which
was a veritable Thomas Looses of the
time of Charles the Second (a specimen of

whose solid and excellent workmanship is
to be seen any day at the Guildhall Museum
and in a few private collections). The
date and name of the maker were engraved
on the dial ; hence, from the solemn
dignity with which it announced the hour
on its deep and beautiful bell, and the
name of the king who reigned when it
was made, it had been early christened in
the family, Don Carlos.

But alas, the original bell, so famed for
the beauty of its tone, and said to have
been of solid silver, had mysteriously disappeared
long before the Colonel was born,
and a tradition only of its excellence remained.
(The reader, however, may be
informed that the bell was on the premises
all the time.) Great had been the distress
of the Colonel about this bell ; he would
not have a modern one, and he had vainly

tried to get an old one that pleased him.
Many ancient institutions and small town
halls, both at home and abroad, had been
astonished by a visit from the Colonel, with
liberal offers to buy the bell of their clock,
but as he was mostly regarded as a well-to-do
lunatic, his offer had never been
accepted — not taking into account that
none of the authorities for the time being"
had any power to sell. Finally, after much
searching of old books on the subject of
bell-making, he decided to have one cast
for himself in Belgium, but as he insisted
on the makers following exactly under his
own superintendence his own theories of
form and mixture of metals, the bell when
it was at last put in its place gave a
sound that strongly reminded unprejudiced
listeners of a blow with a hammer on an
iron tank. The Colonel, however, endeavoured

to persuade himself that it had
a beautiful tone, and was just what an old
bell ought to be, though he occasionally
admitted that if he had to cast it again
he thought he could make an improvement.
As we have said, no one but himself
ever wound up or ever repaired this clock ;
and except in very cold weather, trying
to aged clocks as well as mortals, when
allowances must be made, it was seldom
wrong much more than ten or fifteen
minutes in the week. Let any one ever
venture to hint that was not the right
time ! " The railways, indeed ! Every one
knows they keep wretched time, and alter
their clock for their own convenience."
And the worthy old Rector, the Colonel's
long-known friend, had to steal round and
compromise matters on a Sunday morning
before the service began. It is true the

congregation was somewhat small and
rural, and not very rigid in its notions of
time on a Sunday, but the Colonel was
nevertheless much scandalized if they came
in late to church, making a noise.

Justice must, however, be done to the
honest old Rector. On a former occasion
he had made a very sturdy fight for the
good reputation of his own old clock in the
church tower, regulated by a man from
Canterbury ; but so severe became the
strain over this elementary point in home
government, that the Rector, finding the
Colonel hopelessly entrenched in his own
opinion, decided that he was worth all the
clocks and regulators in the county, and
generously offered to place the church clock
under his own management, which delightful
offer was immediately accepted, and the
terrible little storm which had threatened

to root up this old friendship passed harmlessly
over — the two fine old gentlemen
dining happily together the same evening
at the Manor, the Rector arriving with
the greatest punctuality as Don Carlos was
striking seven. It is with regret, however,
that the candid historian has to allude
gently to a certain rumour which arose not
long afterwards in the neighbourhood of
something or another in the way of a catastrophe,
or something of that nature, having
occurred in the church tower — probably
caused by birds building their nests — but
as the Rector was absolutely ignorant of
the matter, we can only conclude it was
set going by the very gossiping servants
at the Rectory, who missed not a little the
periodical fresh-baked supply of news
brought to them by the regulator from
Canterbury.

The house was full of old clocks and
watches, all repaired by the Colonel, and
regulated once a week by Don Carlos,
except the little clock in Mary's room,
a new one from Dent's, and a birthday
present from the old Rector soon after the
quarrel. This the Colonel disdained to
have anything to do with, and it is therefore
not surprising that Mary was never
quite in the right time, to the Colonel's
distress, as he exacted great punctuality in
the house.

There is perhaps no better way of testing
a man's real disposition towards you than
by taking him unawares. Mary stood at
her grandfather's door a few moments
before she knocked, her charming young
bosom heaving with conflicting emotions,
and as she stood there with her lips half
parted, whatever difference of opinion there

might be as to her beauty when seen in
full front, there could be little doubt about
the beauty and harmony of her profile, and
the general elegance of her small head
and shapely figure. After knocking twice
at the redoubtable door, where no one
dared knock without a solid reason that
would stand buffeting, she was told by a
smothered voice to come in. Mary entered
and found the Colonel in an old coat, bending
over a large saucepan on the fire, the
contents of which he was stirring with
an old soldering-iron, and from which
came an overpowering smell, compounded
of burning fish oil, animal fat, tar, leather
(it seemed), and other ingredients known
only to the magician himself; this was
the last and crowning boiling down of
the great lubricator, on the composition
of which he had spent months, aud which

was to resist the combined attacks of from
and summer heats, damp and rocking
storms of sea winds, the eternal enemies
of the venerable Don Carlos and his stout
ally the old Colonel.

Well, my dear," he said, looking round
with an animated face, in which there
was less sternness than usual, but still
vigorously stirring with the soldering-iron.
You see I am very busy, but I thought
it was you. What is it, my dear ? '

Oh, nothing, grandpa. But can I
help you ? You know I am rather clever
at cooking."

The Colonel reflected, albeit much surprised
at this sudden arrival of volunteer
aid. "Yes, I think you can," he said.
after a moment's hesitation. " You can
stir this while I get a mixture out of
the cupboard — but mind you don't let it

boil over ; ' and resigning the iron into
Mary's hand, he buried himself in one of
the deep cupboards we have mentioned.

Mary stirred the odoriferous compound
with all her might, but to her alarm it
began almost immediately to boil up to
the. top; she called out to her grandfather,
and by a great effort she succeeded in
landing the heavy saucepan safely on the
hearth before it had boiled over.

The Colonel came out of the closet with
a pair of gold spectacles on his nose and
a large bottle in his hand. Having assured
himself that it had really boiled, he poured
the contents of the bottle into the saucepan,
and stirred it vigorously all together.

"Well done!" he said. "Capital!
capital ! You came just in time. Now
that must stand until it is cold," and he
removed the saucepan to a square deal

table, on which he did his clockwork, that
stood near the window-seat.

Have you finished for to-day, grand-papa?


Why ? " he said.

Because I should like to go for a ride ;
it is so fine after the rain, and I have not
been out once since I came back."

Well," said the Colonel, gazing out
of the window, " it's a nice day for it, —
if you like, my dear."

In half an hour, grandpa ? '

Well, yes, that will do for me nicely ; '
and Mary vanished to put on her habit
and order the horses.

The Colonel rode Don Quixote, a famous
old grey hunter of a much-contested age,
and looked well on horseback, as was reasonably
to be expected in a country gentleman,
ex-cavalry officer. With his tall spare

figure, and upright square shoulders, his
fresh face and white hair — the eyebrows
still remaining black — he looked a very
different and more dignified personage
than the old gentleman in a faded coat
bending over a witch's cauldron whom
we have lately seen. Mary looked charmingly
at home on her mare, Queen Elizabeth,
and the Colonel was very particular
about her turn-out on horseback, although
she was not often seen by any one but
himself and the critical Mr. Spilled, who
always brought her mare to the door,
and mounted her himself, looking at her
with great pride as she rode easily away,
settling her pretty and elastic figure into
her saddle. Queen Elizabeth — so called
by Mary, from the comical resemblance
of her head to an old portrait of that
queen in the house, and for her love of

VOL. i. 5

fun in saying Don Quixote must escort
Queen Elizabeth — had been selected by
the Colonel and Spilled, who had both
gone to town together for that purpose,
as a birthday present to Mary on her
seventeenth year ; and, as far as is possible
in the almost hopelessly difficult matter
of horseflesh, united all the qualities ina
lady's horse that money, opportunity,
and good judgment could procure — having
breeding without weediness, fine point
with remarkable shoulders for a mare, and
high courage underlying much habitual
gentleness.

Before long they encountered the Rector,
and pleasant was it to see the cordial
greeting of these two old worthies. Tl.
Rector had been an army chaplain and
an old friend of the Colonel before he
save him the excellent living of AYhite-

patch. He and Mary were also sworn
friends. Had he not once risen in the
dead of night, when she was dangerously
ill, to go off to town as best he could, to
personally conduct a great London physician
to the spot ? It flashed into Mary's
head that here might be a friend in need ;
but as she rode on she reflected that it
would be useless and even dangerous. A
quarrel might arise that would make
matters worse. If her grandfather would
not consent, to please her, he certainly
would not do so for any one else.

Where shall we go, Mary ? '

Anywhere you like, grandpa. Do
you think the tide is out ? We might give
the queen a gallop on the sands."

Yery well, we will go and see," said
the Colonel ; and they set off at a brisk
trot in the direction of the sea. On arriving,

they found the tide was rising fast, but
there was still time to have a good spin ;
and the firm sands and the sparkling fall
of the waves in the bright October sun,
the ever freshness of the sea air, and the
smell of the sea-weeds, gave all that could
be reasonably desired for the best of earthly
enjoyments, vigorous exercise amidst poetic
and healthy surroundings.

Mary had turned over in her mind
whether it would be better to make the
attack on the way out or home, and she
decided on the latter. The Colonel still
enjoyed a brisk gallop, and the fine old
Don Quixote could hold his own on the
heavy sands yet, and happiness in any
form, she knew by instinct, makes elders
more yielding ; she also felt less awe of
him when they were out riding together
than on any other occasion, and she knew

that he was proud of his pupil in horsemanship,
and had even condescended to
praise her self-possession and the excellence
of her seat at full speed, when young
ladies he thought were apt to be wild and
lose all their grace.

After a good stretch, they turned and
galloped back again to the lane leading
up from the shore to the Manor. As they
slowly rode up the ascent, Mary, with a
bright colour in her face, and a nervous
grasp of the reins which ruffled a little the
even excellent temper of the mare, came to
the charge. She began by talking about
her visit into Gloucestershire and the people
she had met. The Colonel was only
moderately interested, until she mentioned
the name of the Wyldemans ; but his
attention became rigid, when she went onto
say that Captain Wyldeman had been

staying in the house, and she had seen
great deal of him, "and you can't think
how nice he is, grandpa "

Well ? " said the Colonel rather shortly,
divining there was something more to
come.

And — he has asked me to marry him,"
said Mary in a low voice, making the fatal
plunge at once, with as little splashing as
she could.

Well ? " said the Colonel.

And — I said — I said I would, grand-papa
— if you consented."

Shameful ! " burst out the Colonel ;
and without my wishes being consulted
in the matter at all."

I did not know anything, grandpa,
about Sir John and all that, until he told
me afterwards ; and he is the eldest son,
you know, and he is in the Guards, and

every one says he is very nice — and I do
care for him very much," said Mary,
beginning to cry. " I did not know I could
not marry him — no one told me anything.
I thought we were brought together on
purpose to like each other — other young
people are, you know — and I am sure he
cares for me as much as I do for him ; he
says that he did the instant he saw me."

Did Lady Worthingham know anything
of this ? " said the Colonel with
great sternness.

"I do not think so, grandpa. We
did not say a word about it. Captain
Wyldeman did not wish me to tell anyone
until I had spoken to you. He wanted
to write to you himself, but I would not
let him until I had seen you first."

Shameful ! " again exclaimed the
Colonel, thinking rather of Lady Worth-ingram

than of Mary or the audacious
" It is quite impossible,
Mary !

Oh, grandpa ! I am sure you would
like him, if you knew him. It will break
my heart ! ' she sobbed, as the hot tear-suddenly
burst out anew, and began chasing
each other down the front of her habit.

Nonsense, child ! Why you only saw
him but yesterday for the first time in
your life ! I tell you it is quite impossible,
Mary. He comes of a bad stock, and will
not make you a good husband."

But, dear grandpa ! said Mary,
trying to get near him and take his hand.
Don Quixote, however, seemed to have
such a decided objection to the mare, that
he put back his ears and moved off.

Quite impossible ! quite impossible, my
dear child ! It is no use your persisting

it cannot be. I cannot allow it ; and I beg
that I may not hear another word on the
subject." And his black eyebrows twitched
and his face had an expression of deep
anger and annoyance, as he moved on into
a trot, and poor Mary followed behind with
her head bent low in tears over her horse's
mane.

CHAPTER V.

THE MAIDEN OF THE EAST Starlit

is a marked and well-known peculiarity

of human beings, more particularly the
male, that they will often outwardly direct
anger against any object but the immediate
cause of displeasure. The Colonel
at dinner that evening found intemperate
fault with everything, and Harrison, who
had been twenty-eight years in his master 'b
service, and, as he thought, thoroughly
knew him, was completely at a loss to understand
the cause of such an unusual and
almost undignified display. His knives and
forks were placed too near his plate, and

the wineglasses were the sort he detested
(they had ever been the same since
Harrison had known him) ; then the soup
was wrong, it tasted like a pastry-cook's
in Regent Street ; the fire scorched him
like midday at Calcutta — the snow was not
on the ground yet ! The saddle of mutton
must have been walking on four legs the
night before (it had hung at least a fortnight
in the kitchen court) ; the woodcocks
a dish he was very fond of — were as rank
as if they had been fattened upon grasshoppers
; and the apples and rice — another
of his favourite dishes, and always prepared
by Mrs. Harrison in person — were
as insipid as child's food, and were not fit
to put before poor people at a workhouse.
Miss Doddingstead (Mary did not appear)
had to listen to fierce denunciations of
the self-sufficient idiocy of women, who,

married or single, a hundred years old or
upwards, never attained a single scrap of
real wisdom, or a right appreciation of the
relative importance of things in this world.
Mr. Croucher, the bailiff, who requested to
see the Colonel a moment after dinner on
pressing matters connected with a new
tenant, was peremptorily refused. Old
Shot, the famous and honoured retriever,
who was rejoicing in the advent of the
autumnal evening fire, was ordered off
from his accustomed place on the hearth
to take refuge in a cold corner ; and, the
most strange thing of all, after his daughter
had retired the Colonel, who was supposed
to have a violent antipathy to tobacco,
never allowing guests at the Manor to
smoke anywhere but in the farmer's-room
at the end of the long passage near
the old dairy, produced a huge meerschaum

pipe out of a little oak cabinet he unlocked,
and having filled it with very mouldy
tobacco from the same receptacle, smoked
like a chimney on fire. Well might
Harrison declare, when he sat down to
supper in the housekeeper's room with a
much perturbed air, that " the Colonel was
gone clean mad. 5 '

As we have arrived at the housekeeper's
room, the writer will remain there for a
short time, confessing his weakness for
these comfortable places and their, for the
most part, worthy occupants. The society
of this snug and cheerful old room consisted
of Harrison, his wife, Mrs. Jenkins,
Miss Doddingstead's maid — a hard-featured
virgin of an impossible-tongues age, who
dressed very smartly, in a taste that
imposed much on the rustics, and who
insisted on going to church twice every

Sunday (although Mrs. Spilled declared " it
was not to listen to the sermon), — and
this last-named young person, who looked
in her cheerful and pretty dress among her
elders like a late rose in November.

Harrison was in full swing on the
Colonel's strange temper when Spilled
arrived late for her supper, after having
put her tearful young mistress to bed with
the comforting assurance that " the door
was never locked fast upon true love yet,
if it didn't mind its foot being jammed a
bit in the opening, and that the Colonel
would come round safe enough in time, if
she didn't wince too much."

He must have had a loss of money,
I think," he said ; " that's the only thing
I can account for. And yet he isn't particularly
fond of money either, and doesn't
seem much to mind anything in that way.

especially since Miss Mary's father died. I
can't make it out."

I have heard that old gentlemen is
given to tantrums, particularly when they
begins to get very old," said Jenkins.

He getting very old — not he ! ' said
Harrison. " He is nearly as young and
fresh as I am, and he's good seven and
twenty years older ; he'll go to a hundred,
like his grandfather, and live to bury you
and me yet, Mrs. Jenkins."

What's the matter upstairs ? ' said
Mrs. Harrison.

Oh, not very much," said Spilled ;
she has only done herself up a little with
galloping too fast with the Colonel."

Ah ! that's just like young ladies of
her age," said Mrs. Harrison ; " they will
overdo themselves. But she ought to be
careful till she's quite grown up ; her

mother died young, and she don't look
over strong, with her face the colour of
cream."

Nonsense ! colour of cream, indeed !
She's a sweet pretty creature, and looks
the picture of health for a Doddingstead,"
said her husband; "she is only one of
those nervous temperaments that are up one
day and down the next, like — ' ' he paused
to find a brilliant simile, and then, as
other men are sometimes known to do in
moments of failure, plunged into rudeness
" like my old missus there."

I don't know what you mean by your
nervous tempers,' ' said Mrs. Harrison ;
I know where the real temper lies."

Mr. Harrison, you ought to be ashamed
of yourself," said Spilled stoutly. " Men
are always accusing others of their own
faults."

Now, there's no occasion for you to be
shoving in your oar, Jenny Spilled," said
Harrison ; " and you'd do much better,

young one, if ' What it was she

would be the better for doing did not at
this present time appear, as he was interrupted
by a loud bang of the swing-door
that opened into the hall, and then someone
rushing down the passage outside with
violent screams. " Something has happened
to the Colonel," said Harrison, starting up
and going outside in haste.

At the kitchen door, on the ground,
he saw the under housemaid in hysterics,
with the other maids rushing out to her
assistance.

What's the matter ? " he inquired.

No one answered, and he started off towards
the dining-room. Opening the door
quietly, he looked in, and found the Colonel

VOL. i. 6

dozing gently in his armchair by the fire,
with the great pipe still in his hand, and
old Shot again in his place. Having
satisfied himself that the sleep was natural,
and wondering greatly at the smell of tobacco,
he cautiously retired, much relieved,
and returned to the scene of disturbance.

Oh, Mr. Harrison," cried the maids ina
chorus, "she's seen something, I am
sure ! She had to go up to the White
Closets' room to fetch a blanket."

I thought I told you maids I'd have
none of you go pottering up those stairs
after dark," said Harrison ; " you are sure
to fancy you see something, if you don't."

But Miss Doddingstead said it must
be found to-night, Mr. Harrison," said the
upper housemaid. " I wouldn't have gone
for anything ; but Sarah said she didn't
care, ghosts weren't true."

Carry her into the housekeeper's room
and put her on the sofa, Jane," said
Harrison to his wife. " Now all of you
be off to your supper again, and mind no
gossiping* and nonsense of that sort. She
has only seen the picture by candlelight and
thought it a ghost. She'll be all right presently
; ' and he helped to carry the still
insensible girl into the privileged room.

Long was the disbelieving Sarah coming
to her senses.

She's very bad," said Mrs. Harrison.
Which of 'em has she seen, I wonder ?
We shan't keep a maid in the house
if this goes on again. I thought all those
possesses had settled down for good ;
it is more than five years now since they
have shown themselves."

Give her a little more brandy," said
Harrison. " Not too strong — you'll choke

her ! " he exclaimed, as Jenkins, who began
to look like a bad sailor in a heavy sea,
was pouring a wineglassful of raw brandy
down her throat with a pinched and
abstracted air. This heroic remedy, however,
restored the girl to consciousness, and
she was even dimly sensible of the honour
of sitting on Mrs. Harrison's sofa. Harrison
then put a few drops of a clear liquid
from a small bottle he carried in a case in
his pocket (containing two little rows
of other small bottles), into a little water
and gave it to her, and before long Sarah
was able to give a connected account of
what she seen.

I got the blanket, Mrs. Harrison,
which was in the yellow chest of drawers,
as Miss Doddingstead said, though Nancy
declared it wasn't; and I had just come out
of the White Closets' room and was locking

the door again, when something all
of a sudden made me feel quite happy like,
and as if I must dance, and I turned round
and saw the young lady in the picture as
plain as I see you now, Mrs. Harrison,
come quite quick up the stairs like towards
me from the landing till she got to the
Quixote room and then she stopped all of a
sudden, just an instant like, Mrs. Harrison,
and looked at me with a smile exactly as
Miss Mary's when she's pleased at something,
and her lips moved as if she wanted
to speak and couldn't. And then she seemed
to go right through the Quixote door, without
ever opening it a bit, Mrs. Harrison —
that I am quite sure of, Mrs. Harrison —
as I could see the door as plain as anything
where I stood ; and I thought first it was
Miss Mary, who looked small like in the
dark, and then I knew it was a ghost for

sure. I dropped the candle and the blanket

straight, and seemed choked like till I got
through the swing-door into the passage,
and then I felt if I didn't scream, I should
die ; — and very sorry I am, Mrs. Harrison,
to make such a trouble."

That's just exactly the way houses get
burnt down," said Harrison, paying little
regard to what Sarah felt, but seizing the
practical point of her flight. " Hid the
candle go out, Sarah ? '

Oh yes, Mr. Harrison, I am sure it
went out; it was quite dark, Mr. Harrison."

But I am not at all sure," said Harrison,
snatching up a candle, and, forgetting
example in his haste, he thrust it into the
fire to light it, and started off to see for
himself, having little confidence in a
woman's assertion of being' sure of anything
beyond a matter of dress.

During his absence the great ladies of
the housekeeper's room wished to have
further details of what Sarah had seen.

Was it the same dress as the one in
the picture ? " said Spilled.

Oh yes, Mrs. Spilled — white, exactly
the same, and I saw the red flower in her
hair ; and her eyes were just like Miss
Mary's, only they looked deeper set like, and
she seemed littler and more strange, and
moved like somebody swinging in the air,
and her look made me feel as if I was
swinging too, and as if I should faint, and
such as I never felt like before ; and, let
father say what he will, I shall never
think that ghosts ain't true again."

Jenkins's white face and open eyes, with
the entire abandonment of personal dignity
as she sat bent forwards with her two
hands on her knees and her right foot

awkwardly thrust out to the side without
uttering a word, was a fine study of the
supernatural from hearsay only on the
human mind.

I tell you what it means, Sarah," said
Mrs. Harrison, with a kindliness in her
tone which explained why she was so
much liked by those under her — " it means,
my dear, that we are going to lose you,
and that you are soon going to get
married! She only shows to those who
are going to be married. I have never
seen her all the years that I have been at
the Manor."

Sarah's face brightened, and as she was
one of those pleasant, homely looking girls,
highly attractive to men of her class, this
would seem probable enough under any
circumstances ; but as her father, who did
not believe in ghosts, had an equal disbelief

in lovers who earned small wages, she had
still to remain in service, though from the
warm blush that came into her face at this
intelligence, it was evident that there was
some one whose poverty she was quite
ready to share.

Harrison now returned with Sarah's
candlestick and the blanket on his arm.
There is nothing to be seen up there ! '
he said; "you've fancied it, Sarah. Nancy
has been putting it into your head."

Oh no, Mr. Harrison. I saw it as plain
as I ever saw anything ; and Nancy never
said a word to me about it, except that
there were ghosts up those stairs after
dark. But I thought it was an old gentleman,
because I heard some one talking to
father about it before I came here ; and
I feel as if I should never go to sleep in
the house again."

I tell you what it is, Sarah," said
Harrison, who had been reflecting on the
inconvenient consequences of this unshaken
belief on the rest of the household, " you
are a good girl, and do your work steady,
and when Nancy is married next year,
it is very likely Mrs. Harrison will ask
Miss Doddingstead to give you the upper
place, and you can't come into a fine old
family — that there is plenty of you wants
to do — without having what belongs to
high families, and the Colonel's is the first
in the county, and stands higher than all
the new lords and barrow knights stuck on
end one atop of the other with their toes
turned out — and that's a thing a mint of
money can't buy ; and unless you want to
go and be one of two, or it may be a
maid-of-all-work with some of those root-everything
radical sort, which is nothing

but envy and vanity without any skin on
it, you'll know when you are well off, and
keep a still tongue in your head and remember
that high places is slippery."

Oh, Mr. Harrison, I am sure no one
has more respect for the family than I
have, and father's the same ; but I feel as if
I could never go about the house after
dark again ! "

That's all nonsense ! You'll soon get
used to that. Ghosts don't drive you about
and shout at you as if you were a cab
horse all day, and keep you up till twelve
o'clock at night washing dishes in a damp
place till you're ready to drop, and then
have to be up at four again the next
morning for the family washing."

Sarah remained in silent perplexity
before the two terrible pictures offered to
her mind.

Perhaps she had better go home for a
day or two," said Mrs. Harrison.

Yes, that's it," said her better half,
getting a woman's valuable hint of how toto
deal with this new form of Kentish
obstinacy, a matter which had been a
continual exercise of ingenuity to him ever
since he came into the county. u You had
better go and tidy up your father a bit ; he
didn't seem very bright when I saw him
the other day, and he's all alone now."

Sarah promptly assented to this arrangement,
and it was settled she should sleep
with Mrs. Harrison, as she declared she
could not go to bed by herself; and
Harrison was to drive her over early the
next morning himself to her father's cottage
farm, and return before prayers at
nine.

"You may tell your father, but not a

word, mind, to any one else, Sarah," said
Harrison, as he wished them " Good night,"
and departed to rig up a bed for himself
in the pantry as in his old bachelor and
sailor days.

CHAPTER VI.

THE HERO RESEMBLES A W.aX DOLL.

The Colonel next mornir. le and

but otherwise mui-qual. Mary

came down to prayers as Don Carlos w -
disniallv striking nine, and the Colonel
received his little maiden with unusual
- and affection. Miss Dodd: g ad
- eyed in Ler usual f condition, and

Mary wa - tteful to her grandfather for
keeping her seer ind Harrison closed
the door, as usual, on the long line of
servan s1 t down on their kne -

with military prt :i. :ter break!

the Colonel had to leave the trial of his
interesting compound, and drive some
distance to a magistrate's meeting ; and
Mary and Spilled retired to the Children's
Garden, to discuss anew the important
affairs of the moment, and attend to the
wants of their little menagerie.

Mrs. Spilled's active mind seemed to be
fuller for the moment of the apparition to
Sarah than of her young mistress's trouble.

v CD

Xo, Spilled, I have never seen her —
she won't appear to me ; but when anything
is going to happen — I mean — when any
of the women of our family are going to
be married, she appears to the head of the
house. If she does not, it is always unfortunate."


That's terrible, Miss Mary."

But I am not afraid of her, Spilled ; she
never does harm to anv one when she

appears, though she sometimes gives
warning. It is the ghost in the old dairy
I am really afraid of."

And have you seen that, ma'am ? '

"No, but I heard all about it from
Rachel, who was here before Nancy. It
never comes above ground, so that you
need not go near it unless you like ; but it's
terrible, and makes you turn quite stiff and
cold, so that you can't move until it has
passed you, and always foretells something
dreadful to those it appears to."

Spilled dropped the tin box with Mr.
Gregoo's seed on the floor. A ghost was
the only thing of which this courageous
girl had any real fear.

But, please, Spilled, do not say anymore
about them, and on no account
talk to the other servants about it ; the
Colonel will be very angry if he hears of

it, and Jenkins tells Aunt Augusta everything,
and only the other day grandpa
asked me again if you had not got an
unruly tongue.' "

Spilled remained silent for the present
on this absorbing matter, and she
set to work to sweep up the seed on the
floor.

When the Colonel had selected that
morning his batch of letters as they lay on
the hall table, it crossed his mind whether
there was any correspondence between the
lovers, and though he had a natural repugnance
to anything in the shape of prying
as belonging to the order of ill-bred impertinences
and the dangerous curiosity
of women, yet he thought that, under the
circumstances, he was justified in departing
from this rule, and so he proceeded to
examine Mary's letters ; but there was

vol. i. 7

nothing that looked like a lover's letter,
unless he wrote a feminine or tradesman-like
hand. He however made a note in
his mind for future guidance.

A very active correspondence, however,
had sprung up between the noisy and
omnibus-ridden quarter of Knightsbridge
and a quiet remote spot in the county of
Kent, in which, though the Colonel's name
frequently appeared, he bore no part in the
labour of composition ; and Mary had
received a letter that morning of many
sheets together, with an elaborately painted
photograph in a red velvet case with silver
corners, clasp, and monogram, containing
the portrait of a young officer in the uniform
of the Guards, with very bright blue
eyes, a long fair moustache, and a waxy
complexion that would have done honour
to a hairdresser's window. This had been

done expressly for Mary, who had never
seen her young hero in uniform.

Sad and almost useless as it seemed now,
Mary could not help dwelling on this
absurd representation, which, though grateful
as she was to the donor for the trouble
he had taken to please her, she could not
help thinking somewhat of a libel. " What
do you think of him, Jenny ? ' she said, asher
old friend and companion bent over
the back of her chair to look at it.

Well, Miss Mary, I should say it's like
him, but I only saw him a few times out of
the window when he had his hat on, and I
thought he was a fine-looking gentleman
and had a nice expression ; but if he's like
that, he's too pretty — and, you know, I
don't admire fair men."

That is because you are so fair yourself,
Spilled," said Mary, with a shade of annoyance,

and he is not the least pretty ; it is
only this horrid painted up thing. He has
got a fresh, healthy-looking face, but not a
bit like that, it makes him look like a wax
doll. I wanted him to give me an ordinary
photograph, but he said he had never
had one done of him since he was a boy,
he hated it, and his family did not care,
and no one else had ever wanted one really,
he was sure."

Oh, that shows he isn't very vain,
Miss Mary, for most handsome men are in
love with themselves, and then they expect
you to be everlastingly admiring them, and
not to object how many others do the same.
I wouldn't marry a handsome man if he
made fine eyes at me like the full moon
till he cried ; unless it was to take him
down a bit, and teach him handsome is
that handsome does."

Mary reflected that her lover had very
fine eyes, and that they had undoubtedly
been directed continuously towards herself
not unlike a full moon ; but, then, they were
honest eyes, and more beseeching than
demanding, and she wondered where Spilled
had learned to be so hard in her
judgments of men.

You see, ma'am," said Spilled, continuing
her train of thought, " there are
two sorts of handsome men — those who say
a great deal with their tongue, and those
who say a great deal with their eyes. Now
it's those who hold their tongue and look
that are the most dangerous to women that
are not up to them ; because the cleverest
man, if he talks much, and if he is thinking
about himself all the time, and how much
you must admire him, is sure to get a bit
down from what you thought of him at

first, if a woman is not a sort of a man
big doll ; but the handsome man, who only
looks at you nicely a good deal and say
little, you think he might say a great deal
more if he liked, and that stirs you up, and
makes you think about him and his good
looks."

Where did you learn so much about
men, Spilled ? ' said Mary, her astonishment
at this accomplished knowledge
making her forget her own trouble for the
moment.

Oh, Miss Mary, when' I was at Madame
de Gros's, we used to go out to balls two or
three times a week sometimes ; and there
we used to meet, more often than people
would think, with real gentlemen, and
when we were at work, we used to have a
regular parliament over them."

Mary was interested in a way she could

not have accounted for to herself. " And
don't you find it very dull down here in the
country, after that ? "

Well, ma'am, I did at first, but now I
am glad, because I used to often get sick
of it, and the way the girls talked — those
French girls are the worst of all, they are
dreadful about men — and I used to feel as if
I should get wicked too ; and father is
right, London is a slippery place for young
girls if they are the least good looking,"
and Spill ett glanced at herself over Mary's
shoulder in the glass above the mantelpiece,
which certainly reflected a very fresh
and attractive-looking young woman in a
dainty blue and white cotton dress — but
then, as none of us like to believe, some
glasses flatter, or rather the light which is
thrown upon us at the moment.

But how did you understand them,

Spilled ? They don't all speak English, do
they ? "

Oh, Miss Mary, some do ; but before I
came away I could speak French pretty
well, and, you know, I learnt a good deal
from poor mother, and I got to understand
quite well what they said, only they talk
so fast I could not follow them at first ; and
there were some English girls also, a good
many at busy times, and we used to have a
sort of half and half talk. The English
girls were always getting in love with
somebody ; but the French they are much
too sharp for that, they only want to get
presents, which they go and sell again
directly."

Did you fall in love with any one ? '
Well, Miss Mary, to be honest, there
was one gentleman I — liked a little — and I
believe he is in Captain Wyldeman's regiment,

and I think he liked me a little too ;
but I was not going — but a gentleman in
his position could never marry me, that's
evident, and so what was the use of that ?
But I am almost sorry I ever saw him,

for I don't feel now as if " Spilled

stopped short in her revelations, and the
colour which had mounted in her cheeks
turned to paleness, and a sad look came
into her deep blue eyes.

The good secluded rustic Mary Nodding
remained silent with astonishment,
but was too delicate to question her further.

I don't think he looks conceited either,
Miss Mary," she said, changing the conversation,
and glancing again at the noble
work of art.

"No, that he is not, he doesn't think
enough of himself, poor fellow ; and you
can't think how kind he was to poor Miss

Ransome, the governess, that night we had
the little dance, and no one took any notice
of her, because she is very shy and does
not get on at first with strange gentlemen,
and I am afraid she guessed, because she
praised him so to me my face quite burnt.
And she said it was only poor girls who
were good that knew how selfish young
men are in these days ; and whatever I did,
never to marry a selfish man. I mean to
send her a beautiful little gold watch on
Christmas Day, without letting her know
where it comes from ! '' The young heiress
felt, even in the midst of her trouble, that
power to do a kindness was very pleasant.
It's wonderful how some women like
conceited men," said Spilled, not taking a
remarkable interest in "poor Miss Ransome."
I think it is because most women down
at the very bottom don't think enough of

themselves. Some conceited men think
that women are just made for their use,
like a pair of gloves. If they fit nicely, it's
all very well ; but if they don't, they try
another. But the way to manage them is
to make them feel small. They will soon
come round if they are good for anything ;
but if they don't, you may be sure they are
spiteful, and that's the worst kind of man
to deal with, because they are little. You
never know what any man is really worth,
till you take him up and throw him down
hard on the ground to see if he'll break."

Mary put down the photograph, and
turned over her letter again, as Spilled
rushed off to reduce the king to order,
who was shaking the bars of his house
with violent impatience to get out.

Oh, that tiresome monkey ! You had
better let him out, Spilled ; " and then tears

came into her eyes as she began to think
again of the catastrophe of yesterday, hardly
yet realized. "I must write and tell him of
it," she continued, " and that he must not
write to me any more. I have been very
false and deceitful to grandpa already,
and he would never forgive me if he knew
all, and I would rather be anything than
that."

All's fair in love and war, Miss Mary.
The Colonel should have sent you down into
Gloucestershire with your nose painted
red, if he did not want what's natural to
happen ; it's too late now, and it would
have served him right if you and Captain
Wyldeman had gone off by the Dover boat
last night. I would yet, if he doesn't come
round." Mrs. Spilled evidently was not
going to be charged with an unruly
tongue for nothing.

You must not speak like that, Jenny.
Grandpa is very good ; he only forgets
I am no longer a child. I am sure he cares
for me more than anything in the whole
world, and I will never do a wrong thing
that will disappoint him, and make him
sad in his old age ; he feels everything a
great deal more than you think, and you
know he has had great trouble — when poor
papa died."

Yes, ma'am, I know all that. But you
are a regular Doddingstead, too, as father
has often said ; and now you have been
allowed to give your heart away, you'll
never change, and will be unhappy all
your life, if you can't marry the gentleman
you care for — that I know well. But you
are very young, and the Colonel is very
old, and he ought to give way."

Mary felt herself that she could never

really care for any one else now, and wept
in silence at the sad alternative before
her.

Don't take things too much to heart,
Miss Mary, it's early days yet ; wait a bit,
and then when the Colonel sees you have
got your heart right into it for good and
all, he's much too fond of you to go on
punishing you for ever, I know."

I fear, Spilled, he won't change — he
never changes about anything ; and he
rode on, and would not hear another word,
and he always does that when he has quite
made up his mind."

You must be very nice to him, Miss
Mary, and not let him think you are the
least angry, or are going to fight him
about it; it is no use fighting some men.
you must circumvent them — -I fear Miss
Doddingstead can be no help to you."

"Oh, not the least — quite the contrary !
She only makes him very angry, and more
determined than ever to go his own way.
I think, Spilled, if you will go down now
and look after the queen and poacher, I
will write my letter. Don't give them too
much ! ' And Spilled departed to attend
to the animals in the small garden below.

We must now descend for a short time
to the servants' department. Harrison was
in one of " his tempers," as the two unfortunate
footmen could answer for. Nancy
had given warning to Mrs. Harrison, followed
soon after by Eliza, the kitchen-maid,
and then Ruth, the scullery-maid; and that
excellent and quiet woman was " much
put out," as she disliked changes — " they
were never a credit to mistress or maid."
And everything had been " going on so
nice, with hardly a word, and they were

good servants, not easy to replace, or to
be fitted in again at a dav's notice."

Harrison had come to the rescue, as he
always did when serious weather threatened,
leaving his wife at the helm in
calmer moments. He had been giving
the ghost-scared maids a vigorous antidote
in the shape of an appeal to their worldly
interests. They were like a parcel of
sheep, if one broke out into a barren field,
all the rest followed. Did they think
comfortable places like the Manor were
to be picked up on every hedge ? AY hat
if there were ghosts ? — which he didn't
believe there were — they didn't eat people
up alive. Did they want to go tramping
about the country, living upon their friends
till they got other places they didn't know
when. Look at Jane Collard ; she was ten
months out of place, and then had to go

and live with a curate and do the washing,
and be looked down upon by all her relations.
And what if there were ghosts ? All
high families had ghosts ; they came with
the property and old parchments. It was
only common servants, without any wits
in their head, and that could never get
into the first families that didn't understand
that. Did they want to be thought
small of, and as having no esprit de corpse
to leave the Manor family for a thing like
that?

Oh, but, Mr. Harrison, there is so many
of them ! ' said Nancy. " Other places
have only got one at the most."

What of that ?" said Harrison. " One
ghost is common. Every old house has got
a ghost somewhere in these days ; if they
haven't, they make them, until you get
tired of hearing of ' their ghost.' If

VOL. I. 8

there is any ghost at all, why shouldn't
there be a good lot of them ? And why
shouldn't they have a little good society
now, when most of them have been accustomed
to it when they were alive ? — only
they amuses themselves by hiding out of
each other's way ! I shouldn't mind if
there was a ghost in every room in the
house, it makes you feel that the plaster
is dry, and that other people have been
comfortable there before you, and that the
place is solid, and not a pack of cords as
they build in these days. So don't you
be a conventicle " (this word, the exact
meaning and application of which was
only known to the learned orator himself,
had a tremendous effect) " and wanting to
have a one-ghost house like a one-harshly
! "'

Eliza, who had the most good sense in

her head, rebelled from the ringleader,
Nancy, and said she wouldn't be in a
hurry, and would think about it before
Mrs. Harrison told Miss Doddingstead, and
the others said they would think about it
too.

But Harrison had got up so much steam
over this threatened rebellion, that it was
not to be all expended on such an easy
victory, and he then turned on George
and John in the pantry and their accumulated
small neglects and transgressions
were all thrown out into a heap and
stamped upon, till John, who had a temper
also, said he should give the Colonel warning,
and George had a sulky expression
and dogged manner of answering that
suggested warning also. Then Mrs.
Harrison came in for her share. But she,
poor woman, knew beforehand " that of

course it was all her fault." Why had
she allowed any of the maids to go doddering
up those stairs after dark ? The same
botheration had happened before. Miss
Doddingstead's orders, indeed ! They had
nothing to do with it ; she was always
fussing and upsetting the concerns of the
house about nothing at all. How often
had he told her (his wife) that the maids
were to be made to understand that she
was the real mistress. It would be a nice
thing if they had to go through all that
business again that happened five years
ago, when they couldn't get a maid to
stay in the house for love or money. She
had better lock up the farmers' room, it
was no need to be everlastingly cleaning
that and having the maids down therewith
their heads together like a parcel
of geese in a thunderstorm. The Colonel

kept the library locked and never had
that cleaned ; and she might tell Eliza that
she would have her wages raised next
Christmas, and that would keep the others
quiet too, thinking they were going to get
the same. "It's money, Jane, that keeps
steady on their legs, be sure of that."

Nor did the matter quite end here, for
as the storm had not altogether abated
when the Colonel came in — who had himself
had rather a contentious meeting with
his brother magistrates and was otherwise
full of unpleasant thoughts — these two
quickly came into collision over the very
smallest of matters, and if a visitor had
not at that moment called, there is no
saying how Harrison's eight and twenty
years of service might have ended, as the
Colonel allowed no one the luxury of
having a fine temper but himself.

CHAPTEE VII.

SIR PETER GRANDISON. And THE Disgraceful
CONDUCT OF MR. Greco.

The next morning the Colonel sat down in
his room to write a courteous but severe
reprimand to his old friend, Lady Worth-ingram.
But when he had got nearly
through his letter, and came to " a request '
that she would use discretion — he put
down his pen and reflected that he had
already been much deceived in her on this
point, that she had no discretion, and it
would be safer to say nothing at all to her
about the matter. Having worked oft'

some of his indignation by the act of
writing the letter, he tore it up and threw
it into the fire, and then sat back in his
chair to reflect again on this " unfortunate
occurrence." It came upon him as a
painful shock to his quiet and retired habits
that the time was close at hand for him
to find a suitable mate for his little lassie,
and great would have been the disturbance
to Mary's peace of mind — even if the visit
to Gloucestershire had not taken place — if
she could have known who were some of
the eligible persons selected for this honour
that presented themselves to the Colonel's
mind. He reproached himself for his
negligence in allowing her to stay away
so long, and his over confidence in the
wisdom of others in a matter that did not
touch them nearly, and of his want of
observation of the rapidity with which

time flies. But this latter should be no
longer a reproach to him, he would at once
seize that venerable runaway by the forelock.
Soon after, the Colonel's bell rang
with such marked decision and impetuosity,
that Harrison instinctively felt no
one but himself was equal to encountering
the emergency at the other end of the wire.
Now, he was at that moment cheerfully
occupied in preparing the materials for his
yearly October brew of ginger-beer, to
come in ripe and mature for the following
summer, according to the good old systema
beverage, in the wholesomeness of which
he had great faith, and in the making of
which he was an adept, although he had
some difficulty in convincing the aristocratic
fastidiousness of the servants' hall,
that it was a drink permissible for anyone
but very common people. He had been

graciously consulting John, who seemed to
have got over his temper also, about some
new kind lately come into fashion. John's
people were supposed " to be in that way,"
and manufacturers of summer drinks.
Having thrown off a large leathern apron,
in which he looked like a master saddler
intent on important orders, he put on his
coat, and hastened off to answer the
Colonel's bell, which however rang again
before he could reach his door.

Harrison," said the Colonel, when he
entered. " I am going to give a ball."

If the Colonel had informed him that
he was going to be married again, he could
not have been more taken aback.
A ball, sir ! " he said.
Yes. Why not a ball ? "
Oh, well, sir, that's as you please."
Well ? ' said the Colonel, sitting back

in his chair, with an air of having now
given the master idea, Harrison was to be
responsible for all the rest.

Never had Harrison's tact and readiness
been more sorely tried, as a ball was quite
out of his line, there never having been
one at the Manor since the coming of age
of Mary's father.

Well ? " said the Colonel again, getting
impatient.

When is it to be, sir ? ' Harrison said
at last.

Oli, that is easily settled. In about a
week or ten days, perhaps."

At such a lamentable inferiority of
knowledge as to the nature of balls,
Harrison's genius rose to the occasion.

It can't be done in a week, sir, or even
three weeks, hardly, if it is to be a regular
ball."

"Why not ? Of course I wish it to bea
real ball."

How many people do you mean to
invite, sir ?

The Colonel hitched himself in his chair.
This was a very stiff question, and the
magnitude of the affair began to outline
itself in the distance.

Well, — the usual number, I suppose ;
but I mean it to be very — in fact — very
select."

You won't get enough people down
here in the country, if you are too
particular, sir ; and I have always heard
that an empty ball room is worse than a
funeral. You will have to invite a lot
of people to the house, and then you must
get the officers from Chatham and Canterbury,
and the gentlefolks about must fill
their houses. Then there is the supper,

and the band from Canterbury, who are
much engaged, I have heard say, as the
winter comes on ; and then the ladies must
have time to get their dresses, and they
won't come if you hurry them — that Mrs.
Spilled can tell you, sir."

What does Spilled know about balls ? v
said the Colonel with great contempt. Then
a brilliant idea came into his head, and he
took up Whitaker from off his writing-table.
" Let me see," he said, " to-day is
the 7th. Capital! capital! — we will have
it on the 5th of November, Miss Mary's
birthday."

Yes, sir, that might do, if we are
sharp about it, and set to work at once."

Very good, then, that's settled," said
the Colonel, with increased respect for
Harrison's powers, and his own dramatic
inspiration in the arrangement of dates.

You will tell your wife to be prepared
about the supper and the rest. I won't
have any pastry-cook's rubbish, mind. But
surely there is time enough for all that

yet ? "

And the wine, sir ! You won't use your
own champagne ? "

Certainly I shall ! Do you think I want
to have my guests poisoned with bad wine ?
Let me know what you have got, and I will
order some more." Now about the only new
idea that had ever got into the Colonel's
head was the healthful value of good champagne,
a sad knowledge which had to come
to him accidentally at the time of his son's
long illness and death, and he drank very
often a modest quantity of Pompey Brut,
of a great vintage, and he saw no reason
his guests should fare worse than himself.

'• But the first thing to settle, sir, is the

number of people you are going to have.
I have heard say that if you make sure of
a good dancing lot of gentleman of the
right sort, the rest will all follow at the
first bid, and some won't even wait to be
asked, but will ask themselves."

The Colonel had meditated that the
legitimate, orthodox, and least objectionable
way of presenting a marriageable young
lady to the world was of course to give
a ball; but this appalling picture of a
good dancing lot of gentlemen," and
people who might be anybody besieging
him for invitations, made him begin to
repent of his undertaking. He only said,
however, "Very well, Harrison, I will
think about it."

But you will order the Canterbury
band at once, sir ? '

No, certainly not ! ' said the Colonel

with great energy ; his idea of that famous
institution being confined to the magnified
braying of brass and screeching of wind
instruments he had been condemned to
endure at sundry agricultural meetings,
and which had left a very lively impression
on his mind. " No ! I shall order one
from town."

This was a shock to Harrison's notions
of what " we " at Whitepatch ought to do
in the matter of county patronage. And as
Miss Mary's coming-out ball — for such he
had already decided in his own mind it
was to be — would be quite a county affair,
he thought the bringing of a band from
town would have a chilling effect on the
Canterbury tradespeople prejudicial to a
favoured attention to orders and his own
little affairs at Christmas. But he knew
the Colonel too well to offer any direct

opposition, making only the remark that,
as they went to all the other gentleman's
houses, he thought the Colonel meant to
patronize them also." Harrison and the
Colonel had quite two different bands in
their heads.

This sly little shot told, and the Colonel
reflected a moment on his unconstitutional
intention. But as he meant the ball, now
he had decided upon it, to be carried out
in the very best way, his own recollections
of gayer days made him aware that the
band was of the first importance as a
matter of practical detail to make a ball go
off with spirit and agreeableness ; and he
held, in his own mind, to the condemnation
of the band from Canterbury.

Very well, then, Harrison," he said
with an air of dismissal ; and Harrison
departed to spread the news of this coming

event, which eclipsed for the moment the
sensation of the night before, and even
John's new receipt for ginger-beer.

The Colonel thought for a moment if he
should call his daughter into consultation,
but as poor Miss Doddingstead was one
of those good, well-meaning, blundering,
fussy, and impossible creatures whom no
one ever obeys or consults, he decided
he would not, — making that little mistake
all we wiseacres are apt to do in our
estimation of the stumbling beings about
us, as she was a walking encyclopaedia of
small information about the friends, neighbours,
and connections of the family ; but
from a habit she had of meddling at the
wrong moment and of giving her information
with an air of doubt and uncertainty,
no one ever gave her credit for any

accurate knowledge whatever — so valuable
vol. i. 9

is it in this hesitating world, when you
see black, to stoutly maintain it is white,
until others negate their own senses and
find that it is white after all !

The Colonel then set to work to make
a list of the people to be invited, but he
had not got very far when Harrison's
terrible advice to obtain " a dancing lot
of gentlemen," the truth of which he was
forced to admit, recurred to him again
with disagreeable force. He reflected a
moment, and then he had another brilliant
idea — he would put this particular matter
in the hands of his old friend and ,
Grandison, a capital fellow,
who united great popularity with a fine
dignity of the good old school (at least,
that was his idea of him), now general in
command at Chatham, a man much in the
world and who knew everybody. So,

abandoning his list for the present, in
which he had only got to about ten
names, he set to work to write a letter to
Grandison," inviting him and Lady
G-ranclison and their daughter to pay him
a visit for this great occasion, begging him
to do him the farther kindness of supporting
himself with a good staff of dancing
young gentlemen whom — here the Colonel
found himself again in difficulties; he did
not wish to be guilty of impertinence, and
yet he was aware of the extremely light
way in which balls were regarded by military
men, tied down to monotonous duties
in a garrison town, and he feared that even
Grandison would not see the necessity of
a very careful choice in the matter of
a ball — " whom I would also wish to dome
the honour of being guests in my
house," at last he wrote, trusting that hint

would be sufficient, " as there is plenty of
room in the old barrack " (let any one else
call it an old barrack !) " for as many good
young fellows as will trust themselves
to my care." He then modestly alluded
to the new lubricator which he had
invented for the benefit of the clock, and
which he thought promised to be a success,
Grandison perhaps had not forgotten
the old clock (no, indeed ! he might be
sure the General had not in any way
forgotten it, as it had lost him a train and
delayed a court-martial!) — and with a little
exceedingly mild and harmless gossip
about mutual friends, as befitting old
comrades, he finished his letter, sealing
it with his big seal (intended for another
little hint), and addressed it to "General
Sir P. Grandison," etc. He then suddenly
rose and quitted the room.

Mary was seated in the Children's Garden,
with another long letter from Knightsbridge
in her hand, and very touching it
was, and tears were in her dark eyes as she
thought that at that moment he also was
reading her cruel letter of yesterday, in
which she had expressed with loving and
gentle firmness that all must be at end
between them, " at any rate for a longtime,
though she wished him to be quite
free," when a grave step in the little hall
and a knock at her door startled her into
immediate precautions. Secreting her
letter, she went to the door, where, to her

astonishment, she found the Colonel, who

rarely if ever paid her a visit.

May I come in, my dear ? " he said.
Oh yes, grandpa ! " she exclaimed

with exaggerated willingness, to hide her

confusion ; and, making room for him to

pass, she closed the door again behind
him.

The Colonel stood with his back to the
fireplace, and came to the point at once.
I am going to have a ball for you, Mary,
on your birthday."

Mary was nearly as much astonished as
Harrison ; but this feeling was soon succeeded
by wonder at what it could all
mean. Was it possible he was going to
relent ? She feared not. " Oh, grandpa,
that will be delightful ! ' she exclaimed,
with as much cheerfulness as she could
assume ; but this young lady was much too
honest and sincere to be a good actress in
private life, and there was a slight falsity
in the ring of her voice that did not esca]
even the Colonel, unobservant as he was of
these fine shades.

"Yes, and I have written to the General

and asked him to come for it, and bring
a whole regiment of dancing young monkeys."


Any one who knew the Colonel would
have perceived that he was unusually
moved or nervous, or he would not have
made such a joke as that. In fact,
now he was in the child's room, withall
her well-known small properties about
her that had been collecting from childhood,
many of them his own gifts, and
when he recognized the sad look in her
eyes, notwithstanding her assumed gaiety,
it wrung his heart to be obliged to be
so cruel to the one great object of his
affections in this world. " But it could
not be ! he could never give her to a son
of that man." (What had really passed
between the two men no one ever knew,
as Sir John Wyldeman had been discreet

enough to hold his tongue, and the Colonel
would never condescend to speak a word
on the matter.) It had been his intention
when he came up to find out if there was
any one she would particularly like to ask
for the occasion ; but he felt now that
might raise a hope to be only immediately
crushed, and that the suggestion even
might be painful, so he changed his intention,
and by way of retreat began to display
all at once an unheard-of interest in
young ladies' dresses — a matter of which he
was nearly as ignorant as a chimney-sweep.

You must have a smart gown, Mary,"
he said. " I should think something blue
would be very nice" — he remembered her
mother looking remarkably well in " something
blue."

Poor Mary could not help smiling at
this delightful innocence.

No, dear grandpa," she said gently.
I believe I ought to wear something all
white, and very simple."

Oh yes, white would be very nice, too ;
but it must "not be too simple. You must
remember who you are, and look right on
parade."

A young girl when she first appears,"
said Mary, " is expected, I believe, to be
very simply dressed."

Ah, well, but I think I remember
seeing young girls with very smart gowns,
too, in a ball room."

But I don't think it could have been
their first ball, grandpa."

The Colonel, finding he had got on a
wrong road again, turned back to try
something else.

But, then, you must have a necklace,
Mary. I have got a very fine old diamond

one somewhere I can give you ; in fact, I
know there are several you can choose
from."

No, dear grandpa, I must not wear
diamonds, either. I should look like an
old married woman ! ' she said, a look of
fun stealing into her gentle face, which,
however, soon died out, leaving it more sad
than before as she thought how nice it
would have been if she could have looked
forward to soon wearing them in her own
right.

Well, then, bracelets'' said the Colonel.

I think I might wear one, if it is not
too large or old-looking."

Yery well, then," said the Colonel,
delighted. " I will send at once to
Gerard's and have some down for you to
choose from. I suppose, young madam.
they must be the latest novelties ? ' and

he wondered, as he had done before on
other occasions, at the remarkable persistence
of young people to be in the
newest fashion, however ugly or unbecoming
it might be.

Having gained this one little doubtful
victory, he thought it prudent to retreat
from such uncertain ground, and he again
changed the subject, returning to his
original idea in a modified form.

You must have the house very gay,
you know, with flowers and that sort of
thing. Wouldn't you like Miss Grandison
or some one to come and stay with you
beforehand to help ? "

No, thank you, grandpa ; Spilled
is very clever about things of that sort,
and I think we should do better by
ourselves."

Yery well, my dear," said the Colonel,

gaining more caution and submitting to
these oppositions to his will with remarkable
and unusual mildness ; and he began
to look about the room. Now, although
he had a decided dislike to all Mary's
monkeys, parrots, and goats — as a strange
taste in a young girl — yet he would never
allow any one to interfere with her, partly
because she seemed so fond of them, and
it gave her something to do that took her
out into the fresh air, but also because he
had received several strong hints that he
ought not to allow them ; so, with a delightfully
grim smile of sham benevolence, he
stooped down over Mr. Gregoo's cage, and
proceeded to play with him.

Now, this bird, whose history and
wonderful age will be afterwards referred
to, was very amiable and good-natured for
one of his irritable race, and was also

highly intelligent, as are in truth all really
good parrots, though they seldom get the
credit of it, and his fine instincts told him
at once that the Colonel was an enemy in
disguise, whereupon, with a wild scream
of fear and outraged dignity, he pounced
savagely on the Colonel's finger.

u Confound the brute ! ' he said, starting
back. " How can you, Mary, keep such
things ? "

Mary expressed her great sorrow, and
set to work to bind up his bleeding finger.

Then the Colonel was introduced to the
King of Zanzibar, whom he very carefully
abstained from touching, however, though
Mary wanted him to feel how beautifully
fine and soft was his coat ; then he was
invited to look at her woolly white majesty
the Queen of Sheba through the window,
as she was nibbling in the garden below.

And a very handsome pair they looked, as
Mary stood with her long delicate hand
placed lovingly on his shoulders. At last
the Colonel, finding his courage was in
danger, beat a hasty retreat to " write his
letters," after an affectionate kiss from
Mary and many thanks for his visit. Ashe
stumbled up Mary's half-lighted stairs,
surely that was a tear glittering in his eye.

CHAPTER VIII.

JENNY Smollett COMPARES MATRIMONY

TO A PIE.

During the next few weeks all was bustle
and expectation in the quiet old manor
house. Miss Doddingstead, who was the
very last person in the whole establishment
to hear of the coming event, was in that
condition of anxious fussiness and obstruction
not unfrequently to be observed in
incapable women in a position of authority
who cannot lead with success, and yet are
too honestly anxious to do their duty to
easily follow the leading of others, until
the patient Mrs. Harrison was heard to

exclaim, " It would be a mercy if she
would catch one of her bad colds and keep
to her bed for a bit."

In due time the Colonel received a letter
from his old friend the General, signed
with a significantly bold and large " Peter,"
as the General was not the least ashamed
of that good old name, so honoured in art
and on the Continent. But the Colonel,
with all his deference to the feelings of
others in matters that did not touch him
too closely, could never get over the
strange prejudice against this name which
still exists in a certain class of enfranchised
British minds, and for which
Shakespeare is largely responsible when
he seized its adaptability to the mouth of
a peevish old woman ; so the Colonel felt
himself a little snubbed, as "Sir P."
certainly had a somewhat uncourteous and

trades manlike air he must allow, and the
stout old warrior in question had before
given him a hint that he disliked having
his name slurred over by his friends as
something to be ashamed of. The General
would be delighted to come for such an
interesting (and unusually lively, it maybe
added) occasion, and understanding the
hint, and taking it good-naturedly and
courageously, he promised to provide himself
with a staff of young gentlemen,
any one of whom might appear at her
Majesty's dinner table. Lady Grandison
and his daughter would also be delighted
to accompany him. He professed to be
highly interested in the invention of the
new " lubricator ' for his old friend the
clock, which he had not in any way forgotten,
and with a little return gossip about
old friends that was not quite of such an
vol. i. 10

innocent nature as the Colonel's, and his
cordial regards to his charming goddaughter,
whom he expected to find had
grown handsomer than ever, he ended his
letter in the manner indicated.

The invitations to the ball had resulted
in a much larger per centre of acceptances
than usual, as it was early in the ball
season. Nor did the matter end here ; it
soon became truly remarkable how many
quite unexceptionable people wished,
through mutual friends, to have the honour
of being presented to the Colonel, and seeing
his famous old house, until, on counting
up heads with Harrison, he was quite bewildered
at the magnitude of the invasion
he had brought upon himself, and Harrison,
in the privacy of the cabinet council in the
housekeeper's room, was somewhat sarcastic
about the Colonel's " select ball."

In the mean time Mary bravely did her
best to interest herself in what was going
on for her especial pleasure and honour.
But to a girl of her deep feeling and
sincere nature, without that hardy robustness
which is mostly the privilege of a
humbler class, a blight had fallen on her
which might easily lead to serious consequences.
For, after all, the one real
deadly enemy to human happiness is a
deep disappointment in any form ; it may
land us in a gloomy stagnation that will
never be quickened again !

Spilled did her best to rally her young
mistress and impress upon her that love
was only like the measles or whooping
cough that all young people had to go
through, and the earlier it came the sooner
you got over it — that didn't kill one ! It was
a bad husband that spoiled a woman's life

and her good looks worse than the smallpox.
You never knew how a man would
turn out till you were baked with him in
the matrimonial pie; and as to vexing about
a lover, you might as well vex about not
being tied up in a sack that you could
never get out of again. A lover lost was
a happiness gained more often than twice,
if women bit with marriage only knew
what was good for them ; it was just
as often going into slavery and back to
school again as not, when you couldn't
even have a bonnet to please yourself, or
hardly do a thing you would like to do
without the Prayer-book thrown in your
face wide open at the marriage service ;
and what are called the best of husbands
are often the worst about letting a woman
have her liberty, and if they were not good
husbands, it was worse in another way.

Women came into the world to get married
no doubt, but whether they did or whether
they didn't, it was six of one and half a
dozen of the other, unless they had the
luck of the Old One, — but then, it was well
known marriages were made in the other
place.

But the eloquent discourses of this stern
professor of love and matrimony did not
make much impression on the love-sick
maiden, whose young wits, sharpened by
her own trouble, had quickly come to the
conclusion that Jenny Spilled must have
had a deep disappointment of her own,
which however increased her affection for
her, but weakened the confidence she had
in her opinion on these matters.

Nor did the coming down from town of
the eagerly gracious and voluble emissary
of Madame de Gros to try on her ball dress

touch but slightly her feminine interest and
vanity, and the sad eyes that seemed to be
looking far into the distance in the large
looking-glass before which she was taken,
were little in harmony with the festive
looking dress which completed the image
there presented. Neither did the enthusiastic
asides of mademoiselle, an old comrade
of Spilled's — which were genuine for
once — on the beauty and distinction of
Mary's appearance, have much more than
an irritating effect. " He would not see her,
what did it matter ? ' She kept her lover's
last letter in her pocket by day and under
her pillow by night, and the King of Zanzibar,
who had watched her take it out of
her pocket, had adroitly snatched it from
her hand, and was only made to give up
his prize after it had been torn in several
places.

Her gentleness and ill-concealed sadness,
and her loving attention to her grandfather,
heaped scorching coals of fire on the old
man's head, and the great pipe fumed with
mouldy tobacco until the room was thick
with smoke at all times, and Harrison
was much perplexed to find an antidote to
a craving for tobacco amongst his little
medicines to put into the Colonel's tea cup.
He finally decided it might be a slight
madness, and treated him accordingly. The
Colonel reproached himself for his negligence
and want of forethought in guarding
such a priceless treasure, and discovered too
late that the child had become a woman.
Mary had indeed passed almost in a moment
from girlhood into womanhood, and with
the fine instincts of a high race she now
realized at a bound many of the conditions
that govern society and position, and the

necessity for self-preservation in the
binding nature of family ties of those who
stand aloft, and she found herself face to
face with the hard unwritten law of the
great world, which forbade her to give her
hand where she most desired to bestow
it. What dairy-maid, she thought, would
be forced to renounce her lover because his
father was not all that he should be ?
Although she had seen but little comparatively
of Captain Wyldeman, yet she had
had much opportunity of being alone with
him, and their love had flamed up at once
with the passionate instinct of lovers who
are doomed to be crossed.

And so the gentle maid tried bravely todo
her duty in that station of life to which
God had called her ; but so faithful and
steadfast was her nature, she felt that if this
could not be, her real happiness in life was

gone for ever. How the Colonel fought
his battle with the invincible little god will
be seen later ; but it would have been better
perhaps if he had not thrown such a
resolute ally into the enemies' camp by his
observation on Spilled's " unruly tongue,"
a stinging remark which hit truth in the
centre, and the indictment being expressed
in scriptural form had an additional gravity,
with a suggestion of matrons and middle-aged
women not at all agreeable to such a
smart and lively young person.

At length the great day of the ball
arrived, with astonishing rapidity to those
chiefly concerned in the preparation. The
General and his lady " were to have the
White Closets' room, a room he professed
to be very fond of for reasons of his own —
though her ladyship would have preferred
something on less classic ground — as one of

the white closets, which opened only from
the bedroom, made a very comfortable little
den with a fireplace where the General, on
his visits to Whitepatch, boldly lit up his
cigar and trusted to Providence. Careful,
however, were the warnings to his staff on
this present occasion on the terrible crime
of being detected in smoking anywhere on
the premises but in the farmers' room,
though he left them to suppose the crime
would consist mainly in the detection.

The Don Quixote room was to be given
to Captain the Hon. Richard Hunting-croft,
only son of Lord Huntingcroft, and
chief of the General's staff for the ball — a
bold young gentleman of a free and open
disposition, and a noted good fellow among
his brother officers. The four other gentlemen
brought by the General were distributed
about the house in the rooms

generally given to bachelors. The Brambles
of Merton, country neighbours, were to
occupy the Oak room, and their two
daughters the Green Chimney room adjoining,
into which you entered by descending
two steps, a quaint old room, with
two fireplaces, one of which had a high
carved mantelpiece painted green. Miss
Grandison had the Rice-closet room opposite
— why so called no one exactly knew —
and into which you entered this time by
mounting a step. The Bride's Chamber
was reserved for the ladies to take off their
things in when they arrived for the ball.
At the bottom of the short flight of stairs
that this room had all to itself was a narrow
strong oak door, on the inside of which a
heavy iron bar let down with a clang ; for
this or some other reason young ladies
were always afraid to sleep there, although

it was the pleasantness bedroom in the house.
The drawing-room was to be used as the
ball room, according to ancient precedent,
and when cleared out was a capital room
for the purpose. This clearing out had
been a matter requiring much adroitness
on the part of Harrison, as the Colonel
objected to anything being moved in the
house if he could help it, and he had to begot
out of the way by a strategic movement
of Mr. Croucher, the agent, instigated
by his friend Harrison ; but even he dare
not touch the old japanned cabinet, which
remained on the night of the ball like a
dangerous spot in the ice for the dancers,
who were ever in fear of sending their
elbows through the glass doors. The floor
of this room was also a perplexity to
Harrison, as Spilled, who had tried to spin
round on it, declared they might a* well

attempt to waltz gracefully on a barn-floor,
so dry and gritty had it become. This
Harrison overcame by sending for a man
from Canterbury, who rubbed and scrubbed
for two long days with a spirituous compound
of wax and other matters. As a
final result, it was found to be very satisfactory
by the dancers, and highly creditable
to ancient carpentry.

How cheerful are the preparations for
an event of this kind in a country house !
Even poor Mary gradually became interested
in what was going on. The bustle
and stir, the ringing of bells, the arrival
of packages and parcels, the rushing of
somebody who nearly knocks you down
to find somebody else, the fragrant whiff
of good things cooking in the far distance,
the anticipation of what is coming, and the
general animation aud real happiness of

human beings busily intent in a match
against time ! Spilled, who had great
good taste in these matters, assisted by
Mary, who was not lacking either in this
respect, had dressed the old hall and the
principal rooms with flowers and evergreens,
using the picture-frames and the
old mirrors and other prominent objects to
much advantage, for all was to be ready
for the critical eye of the great General,
who noticed everything, and with cordial
appreciation when he could do so honestly.
Harrison, although the presiding genius
that directed and thought of everything —
giving even hints to Spilled and Mary in
their decorations — did not neglect to give
full attention to his own particular department,
the supper table. He had hunted
out all the fine old plate, of which the
Manor was a complete store-house — quaint

old candelabra, high epergnes of many

tempting stages, old hunting cups, deep

silver baskets with delicate piercing, and

solid old silver salvers, that in their plain

simplicity looked veritable silver and their

money's worth, free from the suspicion of

modern ingenuity in making a show out

of small weight ; all these had been

honestly polished up, having that mellow

and varied brilliancy which old silver

alone can have, and arranged with much

skill and taste on the sideboards, and the

two long tables in the large square

dining-room. Harrison had great faith ina

striking, general impression. A busy

crowd was too much occupied with each

other, and had little time, he thought, to

appreciate detail, however good it might

be ; and he had twice marched Spilled in

on his arm, imagining himself to be a

guest, to see how the room looked on
entering, and the final result, with the
abundance of glittering silver, the priceless
old damask tablecloths, soft and rich, the
bright reflecting glass, and other objects
hereafter to be mentioned, all set out in
this fine old panelled room, made a picture
M. Meissoner himself would have delighted
to paint, and those who know him well
could hear at this moment his old lion-like
roar of satisfaction as he came upon the
scene.

At length the General's well-known
cheery voice was heard at the hall door,
and his genial presence and cordial manners
seemed to add at once a new element to
the house as he came in with that air of
meaning to enjoy himself, and to make
others do the same, which is at once catching
and irresistible. He had what is called

a " fine presence," and was indeed a man of
striking appearance, with a pleasant face
and a look of fun and good nature, but
with, a sense of power and grip about him,
that made men beware of taking too much
advantage of it. His young friends were
soon presented in due form, and Mary
received her birthday congratulations and
presents. The General brought her a
lovely bouquet which had arrived from
Polignac's at Cannes that very morning,
and another bracelet which for a moment
made the Colonel a little jealous, until
Mary declared she should wear them both.
The other presents were then duly admired
and examined, and the whole party had
tea served to them in the hall.

The " Hon. Dick," as Captain Hunting-croft
was called by all who knew him well,
was at once much taken with Mary, and she

VOL. I. 11

with his amiable and open face, which look 1
as if the doing of kindnesses was the owner's
natural occupation in life. But she little
guessed at that moment, though she knew
he was in the same regiment, that he was
the intimate friend and confidant of her
hero, and knew far more about a certain
little affair than she could have dreamt was
possible, having but little knowledge as
yet of the sad indiscretion of young gentlemen
deeply in love. So the Hon. Dick
regarded her with much interest as she
gave him his tea, though with a tinge of
regret that he had not been first in the
field to try and win such a charming and
gentle creature for his wife, so unlike,
she seemed to him, the sample young lady
of the great world.

The Brambles now arrived, with more
presents and congratulations, and the two

young ladies, who were well dressed, well
made, good looking and lively, added nota
little to the party from the young
gentleman point of view.

Lady Grandison was rather small and
grim, and much what might be expected
in a General's wife who had tramped a
good deal about the world, with no greatly
shining quality beyond that of an absolute
belief in her General — an almost sure sign
of a happy and prosperous old couple — but
with plenty of that small information at
first hand, of the earth's surface which is
to be gained in a military life. Miss
Grandison was a rather stout but excellent
young woman of a certain medium young
lady age, with cheery manners, whom
every one liked, and with a look of her
father's good-natured courage and fun.

The dinner was served in the Colonel's

room, which had been "dreadfully disturbed
" for the occasion, and went off with
a more cheerful amalgamation than is usual
among the two sets of people, some of
whom know each other very well, and to-others
are entire strangers, but with some
of that haste which is inevitable under the
consciousness of an unexpected immediate
invasion.

When the ladies had retired and coffee
was served, the Colonel calmly produced a
box of cigars, and with a short apology
that " cigars did not suit him," gravely
proceeded to light the big pipe. If the
Archbishop of Canterbury on the throne of
his cathedral had suddenly pulled a cigar
out of his pocket and lighted it up before
the assembled Dean and Chapter, the effect
could have hardly been more startling, but
more particularly on the General. He

had been taking all sorts of precautions to
prevent himself smelling of a cigar hastily
stolen just before dinner, and he now became
so violently red in the face with
suppressed emotion of some kind that he
had to rush off to his dressing-room to
find his pocket-handkerchief ; but as he
appeared not very long afterwards, with a
box of his own particular brand under his
arm, we must conclude, although he was
still very red in the face with an odd look
of internal struggling with something,
that this sudden emotion, so dangerous to
men of his age and habit, had passed without
any ill effect. The young men, more
than one of whom had hesitated about
coming where tobacco was so strictly
forbidden, were only too delighted, and
rushed on the forbidden fruit until the
room became such a reservoir of tobacco

smoke that the General even was scandalized
as to the effect it might have on the
rest of the house, and he had to give his
old friend a hint as they left the room that
windows were made to be opened, as the
Colonel seemed to be perfectly unconscious
that any one else in the world had a no
for tobacco but himself.

CHAPTER IX.

THE Whitewash BALL.

It was a pleasant sight to see the fine-looking
old Colonel in his old-fashioned
clothes, with Mary and Miss Doddingstead
a little in the rear, receiving his guests
at the drawing-room door, his dignified
cordiality to old friends and his stately
courtesy and kindliness to strangers.

The General had been consulted about
the music, and the matter having been
finally left in his hands altogether, he had
engaged a fiery little Frenchman originally
from Provence, fast becoming known for
his quadrille band and his eccentricity of

character. The large centre window of
the drawing-room had been taken out
and a wooden construction made for the
musicians, which was, however, somewhat
smaller than it ought to have been for
the number who arrived.

The ball was opened by Mary and her
grandfather, with Lady Grandison and
Mr. Bramble vis-a-vis, the General and
Mrs. Bramble and Captain Huntingcroft
and Miss Doddingstead as side couples, to
the music of a sparkling French quadrille,
with such right dance quality and spirit
in the execution, that it set the keynote
to the whole evening, showing Sir Peter-good
judgment and right understanding
of a ball in the country, which is generally
a ball, and not a tempting bait to gather
a brilliant crowd. And it may be observed
by any one for themselves that the

world is much more honest when it gets
down into the country and is frankly
willing to enjoy itself if it can only get
the chance.

Mary looked remarkably well in a ballroom,
with her good figure and air of
distinction, and her sweet pale face and
rich dark eyes, which had a brilliancy
under the novel excitement of the occasion
that hid the sadness which lay beneath.
Her dress was pronounced to be the newest
and prettiest in the room, as Madame
de Gros, licensed bully and robber as she
was, was nevertheless a really great artist
when she chose to take the trouble, and
Spilled had taken care there should be no
negligence on this occasion. It was nevertheless
a wonder to some of the good ladies
present how a girl so buried in the country
had managed to dress herself so well, and

as Spilled, with intention, had persuade!
her to wear a single red flower in her hair,
her striking resemblance to the famous
picture on the staircase was quickly remarked
• by her country neighbours, and
formed an interesting topic of mysterious
conversation to strangers. Some of the
young ladies began to feel a delightful
thrill when they looked at her, and wanted
to be taken between the dances by their
partners to see the picture itself.

Now came a waltz, that breathed love,
beauty, and youthful happiness in alternate
strains of spirit and tenderness, harp, cornet,
and violins rising and falling in changeful
domination mingled with the surging
sweetness of rich stringed instruments.
Mary, borne in the arms of Captain Hunting-croft,
forgot for the moment her sorrow in
the joy of youthful pleasure and existence.

The Colonel had asked Sir Peter to be
master of the ceremonies, placing everything
in his hands with the one proviso
that there should be no polkas, a dance he
considered " little better than a jig at a fair,
and fit only for romping maidservants and
children ; " and the gay old General entered
with all his heart into his new duties.
Not only did he set a good example himself,
by showing that "no gallant gentleman
should be taking his ease in a chair so long
as there was a woman in the room who
wished to dance," but he impressed on the
Colonel also that he should join in the
quieter round dances. For the General
was very clear in his notions of the justice
and equity of an all-round character being
given to a country ball, so that every one
should have a chance of a little lively
movement if they pleased to inspiriting

music — not being at all disposed to yield
to the easy fashion of the day of allowing
the youngsters to have it all their own
way. So he ruthlessly cut out some of the
waltzes, and substituted quadrilles and
lancers in their place, as, in the programme
drawn up by a committee of the young
people after tea, there was one quadrille
and one set of lancers, and Mary, knowing
the Colonel's objection to polkas, all the
rest were waltzes. The final result however
of this audacious assertion of elderly
authority was a great general cheerfulness
and movement, the old Rector even, with
his rheumatism, standing up several times
to complete a set, and country neighbours
who had scarcely exchanged a word or a
visit for years becoming friends again in a
moment over a lively word or two exchanged
in a dance. The elders declared

they had never seen such a ball since they
were young, and the young people, notwithstanding
the encroachment on their
rights, declared they had no idea a ghostly
ball could be so delightful ; and the great
General, who, popular man as he was, could
make men tremble on befitting occasions,
was actually to be seen after supper taking-mary
round in a waltz. Their style of
dancing did not agree, but she found that
after all she preferred him as a partner to
the lazy indifference and conventionality of
some of the younger men, whom she soon
discovered also had nearly all the same
thing to say to her.

The " Hon. Dick," however, had taken
care this time to be early in the field, and
had secured a very good share of dances
with Mary. This young person — for it
may be taken for certain that the most

honest woman will try to ride us with a
bunch of greens if we do not go of our
own will the road she wishes — soon led him
to talk a great deal more about her lover
than he had intended, having made up his
mind before he came that the right and
safe thing to do under the circumstances
was to avoid the matter altogether.

Mary's beauty and sweetness, however,
soon turned him into a warm partisan, and
as it was not very difficult to discover that she
was as deeply in love as his friend, he formed
the sudden resolution to help them if he
could. Having one of those natures which
must either lock themselves up entirely or
open out completely, his reserve once
broken, he poured into Mary's delighted
ears everything he knew about his friend,
praising him with manly generosity — that
he was an excellent fellow whom every one

liked and respected, and a marked contrast
(taking after his mother) to the rest of the
family, who were the sort of people who
did not much care what they did, provided
they got their pleasure and amusement
(how Mary wished the Colonel could have
heard) ; and these two young people seemed
so immensely taken up with each other,
that the wiseacres quickly decided the
Colonel was going to succeed in his object
at one stroke.

At twelve o'clock the General gave the
signal for supper, but he would have no
dancing during that time — " there being a
time for all things." He had Monsieur de
orchestra and his excellent band released
from their wooden enclosure, and sent off
to get their own supper. Neither did he
intend the ball should in any way fail from
the doubtful reputation of an early finish.

The supper, it need hardly be said, was
excellent ; but it was more than that,
presenting a most inviting picture of old-fashioned
hospitality and charm that was
new to most of the guests, free from the
eternal to-betaken for-gran ted look of most
ball suppers, which are apt to resemble each
other as closely as the windows of two confectioners'
shops. There were good homemade
dishes of many kinds that did not
look as if they were manufactured by the
hundred, and of which one has seen any
number of the same exact thing before, but
having a pleasant individuality that invited
a trial — many so old-fashioned, they were
taken for the latest novelties, to be made
note of. Then there were the great game
pies — for which AVhitepatch has been
famous since the days when people drank
beer for breakfast — delicately flavoured by

a peculiar kind of sage brought to the
Manor by a priest from Belgium, and still
carefully grown in a corner of the old kitchen
garden, and in the making of which
Mrs. Harrison was a skilful interpreter of
traditions and recipes. These were served
up in deep old dishes with many flemings,
that came to the Manor when or from
whence no one knew — with the exception of
the dish for the small-bird pie, a chef-cTceuvre
of old Rouen ware with an inner dish for
baking — all of them invitingly suggestive
of the run that would be made on them and
the necessity of coming early.

The dancing had commenced at nine
o'clock, and every one felt hungry and
cheerful at the sight of such good fare so
refreshingly set forth.

The General had decided that a good
liberal half hour or forty minutes would be

VOL. I. 12

about the right time to allow for all contracting
parties. As Mary and the Hon.
Dick had presided at the small-bird pie,
having friends at court, he and the younger
and prettier Miss Bramble, his partner,
had obtained quite (and more) than their
share of that capital and much-contended-for
dish. As time wore on, the General
thought he would steal out and see if the
band had returned before he gave the
signal for recommencing. On finding* no
one in the drawing-room, he returned to the
hall, and capturing a footman, sent him to
recall Monsieur de Orchestra to his duties.
He was then seized with a violent desire
for a breath of fresh air and a cigarette,
and forgetting altogether the pretty Miss
Bramble, he tried to open the hall door, but
the strange old fastenings defied all his
efforts to undo them. In the mean time

the servant came running back into the
hall, and seeing the General, exclaimed,
that the French gentleman sent back word
that he * didn't mean to play any more.'

Not play any more ! ' said the
General. " What do yon mean ? Yon
didn't understand him, very likely ? '

Yes, Sir Peter, I quite understood him ;
he spoke quite plain enough English, and
said that he was not going to play anymore."


Up rose the wrath of a British general
at this act of mutiny.

Where is he ? he said.

He's in the servants' hall, Sir Peter."

Show me the way ! ' And the General
marched off for the servants' hall. On
arriving there he found Monsieur had been
conducted to the farmers' room to smoke
a cigar.

Show rae the way ! ' again cried the
General ; and he was led through a door into
a long passage dimly lighted.

Where is it ? " he again said.

The last door on the left, Sir Peter —
down at the bottom."

Very well ; that will do. I can find it
myself." And the servant retired, making
way for him to pass.

Now, what the General took for the last
door on the left was not, strictly speaking, a
door at all, but simply a doorway that went
down a few steps into a long underground
passage which led to the old dairy.

The General went down the steps, but all
was darkness. " Confound this old barrack !
where the devil is it?" he said; but remembering
the Colon el's former strict notions
about tobacco, he thought the famous
farmers' room he had so often heard of

was very likely " down here somewhere,"
though he had never seen it. Pulling out
his little box of wax matches, he lighted
ODe. Instantly, the whole place was
ablaze as if with a thousand lights, and he
saw advancing slowly towards him a tall
powerful, figure with a dark evil face and
a deep scar in the forehead that reached to
the eyebrow. It was dressed in an antique
naval uniform, with a broad leather belt
round its body and with a sword by its
side. The General turned as cold as ice,
and could move neither hand nor foot. The
figure passed him slowly in the narrow
passage, and the only thing he was then
conscious of was a sudden darkness. How
long he remained in this state he could not
tell, but he at last gained power over his
limbs and sprang up the steps again into
the passage above. " Pooh, pooh ! ' he

said, "I have had too much of that good
champagne ; it's the chill of that infernal
dungeon ! I am an old ass to be exciting
myself like this over a ball ! But I must
find that damned little Frenchman ! '

At this moment a door opened close
to him, and Monsieur de orchestra, with
a long Italian straw cigar smouldering
in his hand, showed himself in the opening.
He had such a gloomy look of unutterable
injury and woe that it was quite touching,
and the General suppressed his wrath fora
moment to hear what could possibly have
happened.

Monsieur had been grossly insulted, he
had been sent to have both his dinner and
supper in the hall of the domestics, to sit
down with his subordinates, and to be
treated with familiarity by the crowd of
common servants ; he had not had even

one modest glass of wine offered him ;
rien! rien de tout ! ' but that "execrable '
servants' " pierre." Nor was this all, no
refreshments had been sent during the
evening, " rien ! rien ! ' shut up as they
were in that "detroit enfer," where there
was no means of escape without a breach
of the conventionalities. (Here Harrison's
supervision had broken down — if it had
only been now the Canterbury band ! )

The General's military habits immediately
sympathized with this degradation
of rank, and he felt that Monsieur had
cause for his provocation if not for his act
of mutiny ; but when he reflected how well
he had done his duty until the irritable
artist-nature had got the upper hand, he
condoned that also. Then the crisis would
allow no time for a long battle of words
and the exercise of his proper authority,

and Monsieur was after all a distinguished
artist, with some real genius in his own
line. So, with much tact he praised the
excellence of his band, and enlarged on
the insular stupidity of English servants.
Then, requesting Monsieur to favour him
with a light for his cigarette, a tall portly
figure and a little wiry one were soon to
be seen marching up the dim passage
arm-in-arm, with their lighted cigar and
cigarette, the little figure exclaiming with
much gesticulation, " Monsieur le General,
je vous assure ce n'est pas l'argent ! ce
n'est pas l'argent ! ' To which a hearty
voice replied, " Cher invite, je vous croix,
je vous croix de tout mon coeur ! v

The General marched his little friend,
still arm-in-arm, up to the door of the
servants' hall in sight of his band and
the assembled domestics and outsiders.

Then, after many bows, flourishes, and
expressions in which the word " honour '
held a prominent place, he found himself
once more in the dining-room where,
indeed, not only a glass but a large
tumbler of the " Colonel's champagne " was
drunk with great satisfaction and benefit.

Sir Peter's next care was to get hold
of the Colonel, and Harrison was ordered
in a peremptory manner to immediately
take a good supply of champagne into
the wooden box, and the guests soon
began to return to the ball room.

The amour-propre of the excitable little
artist being now appeased, and the detroit
enfer being magically cooled and enlarged
by the entrance of a very liberal supply
of fine champagne, he set to work again
with enthusiasm and good will, repeating
to himself, as he led his band, in a low

voice, " II n'y a personne comme un vrai
gentilhomme anglais," producing some of his
choicest " morsels," penetrating and tender
rhythmical waltzes that would change the
heart (after supper) of the most club-depraved
bachelor (one of them his own
composition, which the General called fora
second time), quadrilles, lancers, gallops,
aud mazurkas — the latter introduced as
extras on his own responsibility — all led
with such fire and spirit, such dreamy
sweetness in the tender passages, such
well-balanced light and shade, pause, and
enlivening quickness at the right moment,
and succeeding each other with such
rapidity, that the spirit of the dance which
is so deeply interwoven in human nature
was stirred as nature intends, and no one
in the room hardly could sit still with such
"splendid music r sounding in their ears.

The really fine champagne had its effects
also — prince of wines for sluggish English
nerves — so soft and pure it could harm no
one, scarcely even intoxicate, drank in
reasonable moderation, yet with an agreeable
life-lifting power, that did its work
with the simplicity of excellence ; and even
the ladies drank well of it without fear,
when assured of its sinless character by
their appreciative and responsible partners.

Then, as the evening wore on, the clear
and fragrant chicken broth, the sassafras
jellies — a delicate and sustaining compound
for the ladies, found to be more refreshing
than the ices — another traditional confection
at the Manor unearthed by Harrison,
and, still later on, the fine Russian tea,
served in little gems of real old willow

r

pattern, which all felt bound to taste, for
had it not been a brilliant idea of the

Colonel's, who remembered its good effect
in the small hours at a ball in Paris in his
younger days, and for which he had sent
expressly to that capital, paying for it a
fabulous price ; this proved so refreshing,
and the cups so small, that more had to be
sent for, and the Colonel was delighted
until at length human nature gave in, and
the ball broke up.

When the Colonel retired to bed after
a smoke with 4 the gentlemen in his room,
great was his astonishment to hear his old
friend Don Carlos over his head gravely
reminding him that it was five o'clock in
the morning !

Lady Grandison, on awaking some hours
afterwards, found her good old comrade,
with whom she had shared many a strange
bed, turned from her in deep sleep — but
it was the sleep that never maketh !

CHAPTER X.

"misfortunes never come alone' and
the story creeps up the inevitable
hill of true life.

The Colonel had returned from the
General's funeral, which was a very
crowded affair — his death causing deep
regret. Monsieur de orchestra had comedown
expressly from town for it, uninvited,
after the excellent custom of his country,
and shed an honest tear over this " perfect
gentilhomme anglais." The Colonel blamed
himself for having killed his old friend
by allowing him to overtax his strength
at the ball. But, if he was guilty in anyway,

it was the great pipe was the real
culprit. He was engaged in slowly composing
an appropriate letter on slight
mourning paper to the widow, offering
to place at her disposal, rent free, a
pleasant little old house and garden on
his property, " which sadly wanted someone
to save it from going to ruin," should
she have not found anything else that
would suit her better, and should the
4 'recent unhappy circumstance not prove
an insuperable obstacle to the neighbourhood
; ' for the General was not rich, and
his widow would now have only moderate
means at her command — when Harrison
came to the door to say his wife would
be glad of the parchments for the apricot
preserve. This was a great affair at the
Manor, for which Mrs. Harrison and a
certain old wall in the kitchen garden

were justly famed ; many pots of this
preserve being yearly sent to the neighbours
around.

Oh ! ' said the Colonel, putting down
his pen. He had sorted out some worthless
old leases and deeds, the blank sheets
of which were used by Mrs. Harrison for
export business and the others for home
use — as she was a finished artist of delicate
sense and greatly disliked covering her
conserves with those " nasty new things '
which, in her opinion, always left a taste
and a smell ; and, besides, real old parchment
covers, thick and solid, gave a
veritable stamp of " good home made "
not to be obtained from the grocers. The
Colonel quite appreciated this nicety, and he
begrimed himself with dust rummaging once
a year on her behalf; but he had left the
old deeds he had selected for her in the

library. Being deep in the composition
of his letter he hesitated a moment, then
unlocked a drawer and gave Harrison the
key of the sacred room.

You will find them heaped up in the
big chair by the window ; but go yourself,
Harrison," he said, having a great objection
to women entering the library for various
reasons — one being that he was immediately
tormented to have it cleaned and
set to rights ; other and deeper ones the
reader is already acquainted with. But
Harrison was not free from the ordinary
servant's inability to obey to the letter
precise orders — and regarding his wife as
himself, he let her go in his stead.

During Mrs. Harrison's absence, the
news arrived that Sarah was going to be
married immediately. This interesting
event, following the circumstances already

described, set so many tongues going, and
caused such a stoppage in public business,
that Mrs. Harrison's absence was
not remarked for some time, until at
length she was "wanted," and nowhere
to be found. Harrison became a little
uneasy, and on going to the library to see
if she was still there, wondering if she had
succumbed to her irresistible desire to "put
things to rights," he discovered her on the
ground just inside the door in a dying and
speechless condition. She never rallied
or spoke again, and within a week was
buried in a sunny corner of the old churchyard,
selected by herself only the summer
before as " the place she would like tole
m.

What she had seen, or if she had seen
anything at all but the heap of old deeds
in the lap of the armchair, no one ever

VOL. I. 13

knew. Was the Colonel again guilty of
unintentional manslaughter ? Before he
is convicted, however, it must in fairness
be stated that Mrs. Harrison had greatly
overexerted herself at the time of the ball ;
and some of the other servants had
observed her to " be not herself 1 ever
since.

Meanwhile, Mary had been somewhat
diverted from her own misfortune by these
tragic events ; but the wound remained,
as with most unchanging natures, she was
a little wanting also in that elasticity
which readily rebounds from a sudden
overthrowing. Perhaps her love of fun
might have been a help to her, but she had
nothing to call it out. She had no young
companions excepting Spilled, and the
events of the Manor were too familiar,
or too sacred, to be laughed at by her —

though, indeed, the comic element was not
entirely wanting. The house, which only
a short time before no one was allowed
to profane with the faintest odour of
tobacco, now reeked of it; as the Colonel
smoked incessantly and wherever he might
happen to be, in spite of the significant
sniffs of his daughter. The great lubricator,
so perfect in theory, was found to be sticky
and clogging in practice, and one morning
the gravity of the good Rector was sorely
tried by hearing Don Carlos strike three
in the middle of his sermon, with the
Colonel sitting in front of him. But an
unexpected event now arrived, which
brought a little new hope and diversion
to Mary. The Hon. Dick had come down
to pay a visit in the neighbourhood, to the
fresh pricking up of country gossip, which
had already been much stirred by recent

events at Whitepatch. There could be

only one reason for his escaping from

regimental duties and coming down there.

This being settled with absolute certainty,

no other would be accepted for a moment.

A fixed idea in a dull country district,

where any new food for gossip is readily

grasped, but not so readily given up, is

not easily routed, even by positive proof to

the contrary, and Mary Doddingstead was

as certainly the future Lady Huntingcroft,

in the minds of her neighbours, as if they

had all seen her married in Whitepatch

church. Nor did the good people allow

themselves to be in any way thrown off

the scent by the announcement of the Hon.

Dick's friends, that he had come down

solely to take a small hunting-box for the

season, called the Little Sack, it being an

easy distance from town for him to run

backwards and forwards. Indeed, some
thought the engagement had already taken
place, and that they should see Miss Mary
putting a little colour into her cheeks by
riding to hounds with her " future intended."
But Mary, with the intuitive
perception of the sensitive and tenderhearted,
divined at once that a party
of rescue had appeared in the distance.
In fact, the Hon. Dick — who was rather
apt to get his fingers burnt by an excess
of friendliness of disposition — moved by
the despair and distress of his comrade,
and to say the truth, not a little bored by
having to listen to the one eternal subject,
had had the happy idea of both effecting
an escape and uniting business and pleasure
in an effort to help him. As he had been
received with special favour and distinction
by the Colonel — both on account of his

former friendship with Dick's father and
his own personal merits, and because also of
the high opinion entertained of him by the
General — he felt that over-confidence which
the ready throwing open of the gates of
friendship is apt to raise in sanguine
natures without very ready perceptions.

Captain Huntingcroft came over at once
to call at Whitepatch, and was cordially
received by the Colonel, who jumped to
the same conclusion as his neighbours as
to the object of his visit to these parts;
and hoped all might yet end well, if Mary
was not obstinate. Miss Mary, then, was
soon to be seen at some of the meets,
mounted on Queen Elizabeth, and accompanied
by her grandfather, though
without the predicted accession of colour
in her face ; and intercourse between the
two young people became very frequent.

The Hon. Dick was not long in disclosing
his intentions to Mary. His plan was to
watch for an opportunity, and boldly
demand her hand for his friend ; trusting
to the natural merits of the case to be
enabled to fight it out with the Colonel.
But Mary was of a different opinion, and
persuaded him to say nothing until she
herself gave the signal; and so exactly
did they behave like a pair of undeclared
lovers, that every one was on the tiptoe
of expectation. Mary was not long in
seeing the danger of this in the disappointment
it would cause the Colonel ; it was,
however, such an extremely difficult thing
for her to convey this to the Hon. Dick,
who, as it has been said, was readier inaction
than in perception, that she decided
to take the matter into her own hands, and
make the Colonel understand that there

was not u anything of that kind ' between
them.

During this time another question of
high political importance in our little
world had been agitating the Manor-house
the appointment of a new housekeeper to
replace Mrs. Harrison. The widower was
for some time inconsolable, as his wife had
been his right hand, working with him in
perfect confidence and accord, and helping
him to maintain the discipline and the
contented good order of the household.
Spilled, however, was remarkably good
to him, ceasing her impertinences, and
helping him in every possible way in the
general management — so much so, that
John, the head footman, who was desperately
in love with her, became exceedingly
jealous. Miss Doddingstead had
a dim notion, instigated by Jenkins, that

MISFORTUNES NEVER COME ALONE." 201

she could improve matters in the household
by breaking the Harrison-spilled ministry,
as the Colonel never interfered in household
affairs — excepting to look at the bill
of fare, or to raise a sudden storm if anything
put him out of his usual habits —
confining himself to the stables and
gardens. Harrison's desire to instal a
friend of his wife's, then available, was
overruled, and Miss . Doddingstead engaged
a housekeeper recommended to herby
Lady Gentlebird (a distant country
neighbour) as a paragon of excellence, and
quite remarkable " for her talent in keeping
people in order." (She omitted to
mention that she was parting with her
because no other servant would remain
under the same roof.)

We must now again return to our
heroine. The Colonel was taking his

usual quarter-deck walk in the kitchen-garden,
when Mary joined him. The poor
child had not at this moment to fight
another battle with him, but only the
disagreeable task of letting down by the
run the wide sails with which he was so
happily skimming away on a false tack.
He received her with such graciousness
and kindness, and with such a cheerful
face, that her courage nearly failed her.

Well, my dear," he said, " and how are
you getting on ? "

Oh, very well, grandpa," she said,
with an intonation that might mean
anything. Taking hold of the two gloves
which he held loosely in his left hand,
she walked by his side.

This affectionate little sisrn he knew

o

well meant something of importance, and
the breeze freshened in the old man's sails.

When are you going to have another
ride ? " he said.

Captain Huntingcroft is coming over
to luncheon tomorrow, grandpa, and we
might go back with him, if you like."

Oh yes, I remember now. As you
please, my dear. What a capital fellow he
is ! ' said the Colonel enthusiastically. It
would be impossible for any one not to
like him."

I like him extremely, too, grandpa,"
said Mary, getting a little closer to him.

The Colonel thought he was going to
hear the much-hoped-for news, though
a shade of displeasure crossed his mind ashe
thought the young fellow ought to have
come to him first. But young people, he
reflected, are so different in these days, and
he was glad of any port in a storm.

But I don't want you to think — that

I — that is — that there is anything else,
grandpa," she said, a brilliant colour
coming into her face.

The Colonel stopped short, and looking
at her, thought what a handsome child it
was, but he did not yet understand. " You
mean that he has not spoken to you, my
dear? That is quite proper, and I like
him the better for it."

No, dear grandpa, it is not that
either," she said, getting still closer to him,
and hiding her face.

I don't quite understand, my dear."

Then Mary had to declare that there
was " nothing of that sort ' between them.
and that even if Captain Huntingcroft
cared for her, which she was sure he did
not — in that way — she could never care
for him more than as a friend.

a Have you had a, little quarrel, Mary ? '

No indeed, it is not that either ! Weare
always great friends."

Then the Colonel understood that his
hopes were crushed again for the present,
and they walked on in silence ; but there
was the old twitching of his eyebrows, and
the look of deep pain in his face. The
gardener coming up soon to speak to him,
Mary stole away, and ran into the house
with tears on her cheeks, meeting Spilled
on the stairs, who informed her that the
new housekeeper had arrived, and that
they didn't like the look of her at all."

CHAPTER XL

THE HOUSEKEEPER WHO " HAD SUCH A TALENT
FOR KEEPING PEOPLE IX ORDER," AND
THE NORTH TRAMPLES ON THE SOUTH.

Mrs. Walker was a large sturdy Yorkshire
woman, with a big head, and a look
about her that was suggestive of fight
at the very first glance. She had a good
knowledge of her business, no doubt, and
in her early days had lived in several of
the great families in her own county ;
and so impressed was she with the native
superiority of this immaculate shire, thai
she was convinced any one born a mile
beyond its borders could never be much

more than tolerable. She commenced
business with great decision and promptitude
; and the tea in the housekeeper's
room was not over before she had made
a mortal enemy of Spilled, whom, however,
she completely underrated, and regarded
only as " the young lady's maid." Harrison,
who was quietly taking her measure, looked
forward to much enlivenment of their often
rather dull life by the inevitable little war
which he scented between these two women
though in his own mind he was disposed
to back Spilled. Jenkins, however, reported
at head-quarters, that " Mrs. Spilled would
be finely put into her proper place now."

At supper, the same evening, matters
did not improve.

Now Harrison's name was a true Yorkshire
one, though he came from Deal. His
father had been a captain and small owner

of vessels, and his grandfather had been
a pilot hailing from that port. He himself,
though brought up as a seaman, had entered
the Colonel's service by an accident connected
with yachting ; there he fell in love
with his late wife, who was in service at
the Manor, married her, and remained at
Whitepatch.

Although he was very dark, with a little
grey in his hair now, he was a fine, well-built
man of the Yorkshire type, with a
powerful chest, and the air of being able
to lift a church." He had also a peculiar
way of speaking, which may be still
observed in some of the natives on the east
coast from Scarborough to Kent, which often
reminds one of the north. Hence Mrs.
Walker jumped to the conclusion that he
must be a Yorkshireman also ; and not
being insensible to good looks in a man,

she was pugnaciously gracious to him,
remarking that " he must be from Yorkshire
too."

On his replying that he was a native of
Deal, and never heard that his family had
anything to do with the people in the
north, she observed, with a patronizing air,
Oh, then he was only a southerner."

Harrison took his ground at once.
Yes, indeed, and he was glad to say he
belonged to people who didn't think their
betters dirt, like those radical, ill-mannered
folks that came from the north."

Radical and ill-mannered ! " exclaimed
the Yorkshirewoman. " They might be
independent and know their own value —
it was not unlikely — but they had a right
to, as they were first in everything, in
Yorkshire specially — every one knew that ;
they were a stronger and a finer folk than

VOL. i. 14

any, and built all the railways, and ships,
and docks, and made all the engines, and
all the haras that were real hams, and all
the clothes people wore, even out in Africa ;
and they had never been conquered slaves
like the people in the south, who were soft
as a sheep for the most part, and didn't
know what a real hard day's work meant —
ask any captain of a vessel — and the
gentlefolks too, were real gentlefolks, and
didn't mind what they spent in being
neighbourly and such like, and would ruin
themselves right out to prevent any of
your meddling topsy-turns, who came down
from a London paper, being elected to
Parliament; and they didn't live upon
growing hops and selling them high, when
they were stale and rotten, to make bad
beer for the low London publics ; and
the places they lived in were mostly

real castles, something like for gentlefolks
to live in, and not ramshackle make-believes
that was nothing but doors and
draughts and queer outsides, as there was
in some parts."

There being a certain modicum of truth
in the statements of this terrible patriot,
only dimly understood by the audience, it
was highly offensive and irritating both to
Harrison and Spilled. The former with
difficulty restrained himself from speaking,
though curious to see how far she would
run, and he was just going to reply
angrily, " It was wonderful that, if they
had such a fine country up there, they
should run away from it in such crowds
to find places in the south ! " when a bright
glance from Spilled arrested him, as this
astute young person had quickly decided
it would never do to fight this woman

with her own clumsy weapons. She must
be got rid of in another way. Harrison
reflected a moment that shindies meant bad
government, and that he intended still to be
master, so he replied quietly, " it was a
pity she had ever left it," — which remark,
touching some deep sores in Mrs. Walker's
career, silenced her more effectually thai,
he expected, and she paused to reflect on
the ill-treatment she had received from
those who ought to have known better.
When the conversation was again renewed,
it was remarkable to see the air of a
great lady which Spilled suddenly assumed,
addressing her as " Mrs. Walker '
in that tone of cold dignity which a
duchess could not have better assumed in
checking presumption and familiarity, and
which had a moderating effect on this
"superior person ' in spite of herself.

But Jenkins again reported at headquarters
that " Mr. Harrison and Mrs.
Spilled had been nicely silenced at supper-time
; ' and head-quarters plumed itself on
its wisdom.

When Mary and the Hon. Dick again
met, they held secret counsel as usual, but
Mary enjoined great caution, as she feared
her grandfather's observation would be
now more keenly alive to what was
passing. Their intercourse, however, remained
much as before. This rash young
gentleman, however, began to find that
such close intercourse with Mary was becoming
dangerous to his own peace of
mind, and even to his honour as a friend ;
and at one moment he became impatient
to terminate his visit, though at the next
it gave him pain to think of going away.
But as Mary was certain that nothing

could be done until the Colonel had a little
recovered from his disappointment, she
still held her friend back.

Spilled stuck to her opinion that her
only chance was to run away, and, "besides,
it was the regular thing. Heiresses who
had any spirit always did run away when
the front door was slammed in their lover's
faces. Pedigrees were full of it, if one did
but know, though nothing was said about
it in the making." And so the time
passed in hopes and fears and long desperate
letters (the Hon. Dick only read a
quarter of them), which arrived by nearly
every post at the Little Sack. It did not
hurt Mary's conscience to hear at secondhand
some of their contents, though she
would send nothing in return beyond what
the Hon. Dick could convey from his own
observation — which she considered might

be quite sufficient, if he had his eyes
open.

It was not long before the ghosts became
a frequent subject of conversation in the
housekeeper's room, which even Harrison,
though it brought him sad reflections,
did not try to check as usual. Jenkins
was much engaged with her mistress at
this time, as she had at last caught " her
bad cold," of which the moral symptom
was a small tyranny, unknown at other
times, and she would hardly be left alone
for a moment. Spilled did not fail to seize
the occasion of such an open field. She
suddenly developed quite a fine melodramatic
invention in her descriptions of
the apparitions that haunted the house,
heroically overcoming her own fears in
this moment of state danger. The maiden
of the eastern stairs " altered the character

of your blood, so that it was never the
same again," by the terrible look of her
dark eyes. And Mrs. Walker was caught
staring at the picture on the stairs with an
almost bumpkin expression of awe. Then
the giant figure of the murdered naval
captain, who came out of the undiscovered
passage into the old dairy — a place that
had known centuries of wickedness — had
now " his huge cutlass drawn in his right
hand, dripping with shining great drops
of red blood that became sparks of fire
when they touched the ground, and a
ghastly wound reached from the top of
his head down to his right eye — which
had gone ; and after he had frozen you
into a statue, when you could no more
move than if you were screwed up in a
coffin, he paced backwards and forwards
near you like a sailor on the deck of a
ship."

When Harrison's back was turned, Spilled
gave Mrs. Walker a low whispered
account, in friendly confidence, of the sad
fate of his wife, and the evil spirit of the
old squire, who shot his only son, and who
was let loose a short time every day at
dusk from the wicked place, and who " had
power to close the door behind you as soon
as you entered the library, so that it
couldn't be opened again, and then to
make you fall to the ground speechless."
The garden ghost (a doubtful tradition
among the servants only) was now a
spectral figure " nearly as tall as two men,
that came out of the garden and passed
through the kitchen court just before bedtime."
All of which had such an effect on
the unfortunate woman, that she returned
to the burden of her old song as she put
herself to bed — " There was no peace
anywhere in this wicked world."

There was certainly no peace amongst
the household at the Manor. Nothing
was done as it ought to be in a real
gentleman's house. Things were very different
in the houses Mrs. Walker had been
accustomed to. No under servant was to
be down a minute later than half-past five
in the morning — in Yorkshire, in the great
houses, they had often to begin at five ; the
dirt in the old offices was enough to breed
a pestilence ; and the house itself was no
cleaner than a lodging at Scarborough !
Did they want to sit the whole day over
their meals, giggling about their lovers and
talking small at their betters ? The men
had no business in the kitchen at all.
except to fetch and carry, instead of
stopping about to make sheep's eyes at
the maids over a dish cover. Xo one
knew their own proper work, and they did

nothing but scrimmage about after one
another, like a school-treat broke lose at
a railway junction. All of which was
largely in the good woman's own imagination
; for, although the offices were very
old, no doubt, and things had got a little
lax and out of joint since Mrs. Harrison's
death, the house was neither dirty nor in
any way disorderly for a happy family
of old servants who helped each other
pleasantly for the sake of the chat, and
had never been accustomed to be drilled
like a regiment of soldiers. But, then, if
we happen to know ourselves to be superior,
we must make our superiority to be felt on
our own ground ; and such a rebellion arose
among the under servants, who declared
they " were treated like dirt," and would
all give warning, that Harrison and Spilled
had some difficulty in quieting them

without disclosing their own plans ; for
Jenkins and Mrs. Walker had become as
thick as the proverbial thieves, and they
saw that the least imprudence on their
parts would throw the power into the
Jenkins faction and probably ensure their
own downfall. There was also a fear lest
this danger might extend to Spilled's
father in the stables ; for Harrison knew
that if he went to the Colonel and laid
matters before him, he was extremely
likely to take his daughter's part, however
much he might think her in the wrong ;
and Mr. Spilled, who had a spirit of his
own, was sure to take the part of his Jenny.
At length it was decided that the Hon.
Dick should make his grand attempt on
the Colonel, and Mary took a leaf from her
maid's book and advised a ride as the
easiest moment to brinir the matter forward

naturally. So the Colonel was again
artfully trotted out on his old hunter for
diplomatic purposes. The Hon. Dick had
had such cautions instilled into him by
Mary, that he hardly knew how to begin ;
but he felt the greatest circumspection
must be used, and as little appearance of
opposition as possible ; so he assumed the
tone of a young officer to his colonel, when
he has some particular favour to ask.

I am afraid I shall have to be a good
deal in town just now, sir," he said. " I
shall not see you again for some time. I
am in hot water as it is with the Colonel."

I am sorry to hear that ; but you know
whenever you can run down again we shall
be here."

You are very kind, sir. I have enjoyed
coming over to Whitepatch immensely ;
but as I shall not see you again for sometime,

there is a matter I have on my
conscience I should like to speak to you
about, if you will allow me."

The Colonel began to wonder if he w
going to propose for Mary after all. " Oh,
certainly " he said.

Of course I only wish to mention it to
you, and not to interfere with your own
judgment in any way, and I feel how
little right I have to say anything at all ;
but you have been so awfully kind to me —
and I am sure you won't think it is anything
like interference, Colonel Nodding
or anything of that sort."

The Colonel knew that the Hon. Dick
and Captain Wyldeman were quartered
together, and had several times reflected on
this odd coincidence, and a suspicion of
what was coming crossed his mind.

Well ? ' he said rather shortly.

The enterprising guardsman tightened
his reins.

My friend, Frank Wyldeman, has told
me of his unfortunate attachment to your
granddaughter, and as he is a thundering
good fellow, and not at all like his father
or the rest of his family, as you, sir, perhaps
think, I rashly promised to intercede
for him if I could. But, of course, it is
no business of mine, really, and if you
think I am wrong I am very sorry indeed ;
but he is a fellow I would do anything in
the world for ! "

Captain Huntingcroft, I regret deeply
to say this match can never be with my
consent. It is quite impossible that I can
ever allow my granddaughter to enter that
family."

But don't you think it's deuced hard,
sir, for a fellow to be swamped by his

relations in a matter like this ? If you
could only inform yourself in the right
quarters, you'd find there is not a letter
fellow living in any way ! Everybody
likes and respects him, and he is considered
one of the best officers we have had for
some time, and he will distinguish himself
certainly if he has a chance."

All that I do not deny," said the
Colonel. " He may be what you say, for
anything I know to the contrary ; but my
prejudice — if you like to call it so — against
his father is invincible."

But are you sure, Colonel Nodding
that your granddaughter's happiness
is not deeply involved also ? Neither is it
very fair on Wvkleman, I think, that they
should have been allowed to see so much of
each other ; and, I assure you, he is deeply
attached to her, and has been quite a

different man ever since they met in
Gloucestershire."

I acknowledge," said the Colonel, " that
there was some remissness on my part in
the matter ; but I entrusted her implicitly
to Lady Worthingham, whom I have
known half my life, and knew nothing of
what was going on until my granddaughter's
return. Because I have made one error
you cannot, I hope, endeavour to persuade
me that I am to make a worse one."

But, Colonel Doddingstead, would it bea
worse one? "

My mind is quite made up, sir ! ' said
the Colonel, getting hot at last, " and I
must beg that you will not let me hear you
allude to the subject again." And he
trotted on, as he had formerly done with
Mary.

The two men, however, parted at last

vol. i. 15

with sufficient cordiality ; as the Colonel
had great regard for the Hon. Dick, and
liked a courageous opponent — particularly
when he had been beaten, and he sighed
as he rode off at the turning, to think
what a pity it was he could not have
pleaded for himself.

But the Hon. Dick — who did not like to
get his fingers burnt, even though he
thrust them into the fire with his eyes open
as he trotted off on his own road, most
disrespectfully declared " he had never
seen such an obstinate, hot-headed old
turkey-cock since he was born, and that it
would serve him right if they ran away
together tomorrow ! '

Captain Huntingcroft departed early the
next morning for town, but Mary, during
the day, received a packet of books he had
promised to lend her ; and inside the

parcel was a letter. The Colonel had
given no sign of what had happened
during his ride. He had merely remarked
that " our young friend is going to town
again tomorrow," and Mary passed a
restless night in wondering what had really
taken place. The letter in the parcel was
as follows : —

The Little Sack, Tuesday Evening.

My dear Miss Doddingstead,

I could do nothing with your
grandfather to-day. I think I tried my
best, but he is dreadfully obstinate, and I am
afraid I made him rather angry. I know
what I should do if I were Wyldeman. I
should come at once with a beautiful coach
and six horses, in the dead of the night, and
steal you away, whether you said yes or no,
and then you would be obliged to marry me
you know ! / should not wait very long.

It is a great shame — that is all I can
say — after you have been allowed to come
together like that. But you must not lose
courage. I am more determined now than
ever it shall be, sooner or later, and it will
be very hard if we cannot get the better of
the Colonel's obstinacy between us. But
you must remember that Love is the King
in this world after all, and you must obey
him first, and not care too much about
what others say or think. You are much
too good and nice ever to do anything
really wrong, if you tried ever so hard !
So don't be thinking yourself dreadfully
wicked because you want to do like the
young birds ; they are not wicked when
they fly off with some fine young cock who
has been singing to them with all his heart.
I hate all these conventionalities and chopping
up one's happiness for the sake of

prejudice and position and putting one's
relations into the scale first. Who was
that fellow who said something about red
tape ? Well, now, we are just like that !
People of our class are all tied up with red
tape, and stuck into a place where we must
remain.

I expect to find it dreadfully dull in
town now. You will send me a line, I know,
to cheer me up a little, and let me know how
you are and how matters are getting on.
It is quite correct, you know, to write to a
slow old fellow like me ! — every one does. I
will send you down those other books I
promised you about art, I have got them
somewhere up there. I recommend you to
study Hamilton; they say he has the
genius of good sense. But I am rather particular
about my books, so please open the
parcel yourself.

"You will be dreadfully bored, I fear, with
this long letter, but you must put your foot
down with the Colonel you know, and not
give way an inch. After all, he is much
too fond of you to tread on you very hard I
think — he would be a very odd sort of man
who could have the heart to do that with
you. I should go on telling him that you
are quite determined never to marry anyone
else, about once a week, until he g<
jolly well tired of saying no.

Good-bye. I am off early tomorrow, and
very sorry not to have seen you again.
Ever your sincere Friend,

ElCIIARD HUXTIXGCROFT.

I shall give your love to F. TV.

m

CHAPTEE XII.

THE Robbery AND MURDER OF MR. Greco.

Her majesty, the Queen of Sheba, after
this, had a slight indisposition, and her
ladies in waiting, with some anxiety and
flutter, were attending upon her in the garden.
Mary's sitting-room was thus left in
possession of the King of Zanzibar and
Mr. Gregoo.

These captives together in a shivering
land were said to be both natives of that
delightfully warm little island of Zanzibar,
which is the supposed paradise of monkeys
and parrots. But the usual sympathy and
good feeling bred by a similarity of misfortune

was sadly wanting in this case, and
their natural prejudices and propensities
were also kept alive by the injudicious distribution
of the good things of this life from
the hands of Mary and Spilled ; for although
his Majesty of Zanzibar was no doubt the
more rapacious and self-seeking of the two,
he was yet treated with much injustice by
Spilled when Mary was not present. The
king, though small, was a powerful little
animal, with great nervous force and surprising
agility even for a monkey. He did
not belong to a common race, having much
delicacy and harmony in his proportions,
with almost the face of a handsome negro,
and a certain look of dignity in repose
which was sufficiently comical, and had
suggested his name to Mary when she had
heard whence he came. He had belonged
to a performing troop of monkeys from

Antwerp which had found its way to Deal,
and he had been secured, after much trouble
and at a large price, by Harrison for his
young mistress. The king was a most
intelligent and amusing little fellow, rarely
spiteful or unamiable to Mary, though
Spilled had always to beware of him. He
would dance a polka round the room in
very fair time to Mary's playing, holding
out his arms to an imaginary partner, and
constantly glancing over his shoulder to
know when he was to stop and receive his
reward ; he would throw two large nuts in
the air in imitation of a juggler until he
got the signal to eat them, and would march
across the room at a solemn pace with a
white pocket-handkerchief pinned round his
shoulders and a lighted candle in his hand —

which latter performance generally ended
in his trying to eat the candle.

Mr. Gregoo was also a distinguished and
valuable specimen of his race — for whom
Mary had given another large price — asher
grandfather never refused her any
money she wanted. He had a fine head
and wide forehead, a plump silver-grey
body, and a beautiful red tail in unusually
flourishing condition, that was Mary's
delight. He also had a certain dignity
of his own as he sat on his perch, apparently
indifferent to all that was passing around
him, with his head slightly on one side,
in silent contemplation. He was a true
Zanzibar parrot, and no one knew his
exact age, but it was pronounced by the
proper authorities to be enormous. He
had a solid gold ring with an eyelet on his
right leg, with "Mr. Gregoo, 1702, Wet."
engraved upon it. This might have
belonged to another parrot no doubt ; but

as his vocabulary contained certain nautical
terms connected with the manoeuvring of
sails on board ship, that bad gone out of
general use before the end of the last
century, there was good reason to believe
that be was even much older than the date
on the ring. Yet he did not show his age,
except in his witch-like claws and the look
of his eyes — which were uncommonly like
an old wizard's. He had evidently lived
much on board ship, and spoke several
languages, and some of bis expressions were
so strange, it would perhaps have been
as well if he had passed an examination
before he was sent to the young lady of
Whitepatch Manor.

Mary, on bearing that morning of the
illness of the goat from Spilled, had
hurried down to the garden, and left her
to feed the monkey and parrot. Spilled

had followed her quickly, leaving the
unfortunate king shut up in his house
without any breakfast, or a single nut of
consolation. His house, which was built
by Mary herself, who was an excellent
little carpenter (Spilled found that
carpentering and sticky glue-pots spoilt
her hands for fine work), was on a small
table on a level with Mr. G-rego's cage,
and only a few yards distant. The parrot,
however, was in high favour, and had
received a bountiful supply of nuts and
other good things thrown in to him with
hasty profusion. These he cracked and
munched with calm deliberation, one claw
in the air, under his deserted rival's nose,
with solemn pauses, followed immediately
by shrill whistles, that seemed to say, " I
don't care a straw for anybody." accompanied
with side struts backward and

forward on his perch, which had altogether
a provocative air of enjoyment and self-satisfaction
that was quite unendurable to
the starving and neglected rival over the
way. Then he began triumphantly to display
his accomplishments, imitating a boatswain's
whistle, with a hoarse slow cry of
"All hands to grog ; " then, " Oh, you wicked
king," in Mary's gentle and reproachful
voice, followed immediately by " Shut him
up ! shut him up, ma'am I ' in Spilled's
clear tones. Crack, crack, as he went
on with his nuts. Then, after a silence,
God damn the king! Go to hell, ros-bif ! "
with such an absurd French accent, it was
impossible for any human being not to
laugh. This was followed by a loud noise,
like some one knocking at a door, made
with his beak against the cage, answered
by Estate in a pleasant Italian voice.

Then, after more cracking, and a long
pause in deep silence, came Lis great feat
in imitation, " Turn the hands out — shorten
sail ! " he shouted, in such a clear ringing
tone of urgent command, and in such a
loud high-pitched voice of manly energy
in a moment of danger, that any one who
had not heard it would never believe that
such a startling volume of sound could
come out of such a small organ. This was
followed by shrill musical imitations of
a boatswain's whistle summoning the crew
on deck.

All this time the eyes of the king were
inflamed with spite and hungry jealousy,
and, on hearing this last triumphant performance,
he shook the bars of his cage
with such violence that the door burst
open, and he leaped to the floor with his
tail rigid in the air, and his white teeth

gleaming in the light from the window.
It did not take him another second to
spring on to Mr. Gregoo's cage, and try to
seize some of his nuts, but the bird repulsed
him with loud shrieks and vigorous bites.
The king retreated again to the floor, and
moving round under the table, he sprang
lightly at the door of the cage, which he
opened with the quickness and dexterity
of Spilled, whom he had often watched
when performing this operation, and seizing
the astonished Mr. Gregoo by one of his
claws, dragged him out, fluttering and
screaming to the floor. The parrot gave
him a fierce bite, and now commenced a
terrible duel ; for a good cock parrot,
though often timid with human beings, has
great courage when attacked by other birds
or animals, especially a monkey, his
hereditary foe. To see the surprising

vigour and vitality which even this old
bird now displayed, it was not difficult to
credit his race with the gigantic age so
often attributed to them. At first one
would have been disposed to back Mr.
Gregoo, as he had the greater natural
courage and the most direct mode of
attack, and the king quickly received some
severe bites on his face and arms ; but the
superior agility and ingenuity of the
monkey, and the power which his hands
gave him, soon began to tell in a fight on
the ground. Leaping in the air in all
directions to attack his enemy in the rear,
and using his hands more than his teeth,
he plucked one by one and in handfuls the
feathers from the parrot's body and tail,
until the unfortunate bird was a complete
wreck, showing large patches of white skin,
while the floor was strewn with feathers.

But Mr. Gregoo fought with desperation,
and the air was filled with deafening
shrieks and fierce jabbering. At length,
after receiving a tremendous bite, which
disabled one of its eyes, the monkey tore
out violently at one pull the remainder of
the bird's tail, which so completely discomfited
him that he turned and fled,
screaming and fluttering about the room.
Then began a murderous pursuit, the little
brute's wicked eye that was uninjured
gleaming like a serpent's, the room sounding
with diabolical chattering and the
bird's piercing cries, amidst a scene of wild
confusion. Flower-pots were thrown to the
ground, the earth and fragments of pottery
scattered about, writing materials, books,
and drawings, sent flying in all directions ;
the inkstand was upset, and its contents
trickled out on to the floor ; flower

VOL. I. 16

vases full of water were overturned to roll
smashing against the fender ; music, and a
small box of tools were dashed off the top
of the piano, an engraving of Mary's grandfather
— to which the bird had flown for
refuge — was torn down from its nail, to
fall crashing with its glass against a chair;
Mr. Grrego's cage, where he had twice
tried to find shelter, was overturned with
its stand ; the fire-irons were thrown down,
and some of the hot coals flung out
of the fire — for even there had the deadly
chase reached ; one side of the mantelpiece
was swept bare, and Mary's little clock
sent tingling into the fender — the monkey,
springing and leaping about the room and
its walls with such demoniacal fury and
intensity of purpose, and such rapidity, that
no eye could hardly have followed him,
making wild shots at his victim in his half-blind

condition, until at length the exhausted
bird, again trying to take refuge under the
grate, was seized and dragged out to be
executed. And when Mary and Spilled
returned from the stables, where they had
taken the goat for greater warmth, and
came on this extraordinary scene, poor,
much-prized, ever-cheerful Mr. Gregoo lay
dead on the hearth rug, without a feather
on his body, and with his neck as completely
wrung as if it had been done by the hands
of a charitable Christian.

But where was the murderous King of
Zanzibar ? He was found under a sofa in
the corner, grinning and jabbering, bleeding
and cracking nuts.

Mary was extremely angry for so gentle
a person, and scolded the king with such
righteous wrath that it argued well for
her honesty in this direction should she

ever become a wife ; but when he wa
captured and she saw his bleeding and
wounded condition, and the loss of his eye,
her tenderness prevailed, and she was
against giving him any more punishment.
Spilled was of a different opinion, as she
had been very fond of Mr. G-rego, but had
no love for the monkey, who gave her
endless trouble, stealing her thimbles and
cotton, biting her on one of her ankles, and
generally taxing her to keep a vigilant e\
upon his proceedings ; so she was determined
he should have quite a new punishment,
and be shut up in the dark closet under
the stairs. After he had been bathed and
his wounds attended to, Mary reluctantly
consented, but only on glancing again at the
dead and outraged Mr. Gregoo, tears in her
eyes as she remembered when he was first
brought to her years ago by Harrison.

Now this " closet " was that large irregular
one under the stairs to which the reader's
attention has been especially called. The
king, then, was shut up in this dark place,
Jenny taking care to remove the housemaids'
brooms, that he should not even
have the small excitement of tearing them
to pieces.

Mary then covered the remains of Mr.
Gregoo with a white handkerchief ; and the
two young women set to work to restore
order in the room and lament over this
tragic event.

At luncheon Mary could not help for
once giving her grandfather some of the
details of her menage. The Colonel was
indignant, and declared the little brute
must be sent away immediately — " there
was no saying what he might not do next '
(no indeed). Mary offered little immediate

opposition, trusting this small storm would
blow over. When, however, she went to
visit the captive in the afternoon, he was
gone. Search was made everywhere, but
he was not to be found. Spilled suspected
Nancy of letting him out, as there was
a continual mop-and-broorn war between
these two young women over the implements
kept in the closet, as the housemaids
cleaned the stairs and the little hall ; but
Nancy stoutly denied that she had been
near the place since the morning, and the
mystery remained unsolved. Mary was
plunged into the deepest sadness, thinking
everything she cared for in this world was
to be taken from her.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE COLONEL UPSETS HIS JUG OF SHAVING
WATER, AND THE DAINTY MRS. Spilled
COVERS HERSELF WITH DIRT AND Cobwebs.


If you please, sir, the clock has stopped,"
said John, coming into the Colonel's room
to open the shutters on the second morning
after this event.

The Colonel roused himself up and
opened his eyes very wide. " Stopped ! '
he said. " What can have happened ? '

Now, to his credit be it said, the sturdy
old Don Carlos had never been guilty of
stopping altogether of his own free will for

many a long year. He had gone backwards
and forwards, even to an hour and more,
according to arrangements between himself
and his ingenious patron, but stopped,
never !

The Colonel overturned his jug of hot
water in shaving, and dressed in such haste
that he was leaving the room without his
necktie, until he caught sight of himself
in the glass.

Stopped ! What could have happened ? "

He mounted to the tower, but could see
nothing wrong. The clock went on again
when he set it going, and having put it to
the right time, he came down and went into
the garden for his usual little turn before
breakfast, which this time was backwards
and forwards in sight of the tower.

Yes, it went all right again — what
could it have been ? ' And when Don

Carlos struck nine with his old clanking
sound, he entered for morning prayers and
his usual excellent breakfast of bacon and
eggs — a dish, it may be mentioned, he
never varied from year's end to year's end.
In the afternoon Don Carlos stopped
again ; and again the Colonel mounted to
the tower, but still to find nothing wrong
with the clock, as he set it going once
more. He however observed that some one
had been meddling with the tin pot which
contained a supply of the new lubricator.
Now, there was a narrow opening at the
bottom of the tower, which led down by a
few steps and a covered way on to the
roof. This had no door, although the
Colonel had often thought it would have
been better for one ; but it had always been
so, and that was a sufficient reason with
him for letting it alone. " Who could

have been meddling up there ? Someone
must have come in from the roof.
Who could have presumed to take such
an unwarrantable liberty ? '

He came down from the tower with an
angry face, but he decided to say nothing
for the present — never accusing any one
without strong ground — and went out to
the gardens to see and hear if any one had
been on the roof, as Miss Doddingstead
was quite capable of having " something
done' without saying a word to him on
the subject. Mary had heard that the
clock had stopped, but no one regarded
that as an altogether impossible event with
the same faith as the Colonel.

Don Carlos went perfectly well through
the night, until soon after luncheon the
next day, when the Colonel, going out into
the garden, found it had just stopped again.

He hurried up on to the roof, and was intime
to catch sight of the king with his
tail in the air vanishing round a chimney.
He descended at once in great wrath to
find Mary, the penultimate cause of this
sacrilege. But Mary, like other mortals,
had fallen back on a friend much neglected
of late, and had started early to give
Queen Elizabeth a much-needed gallop.
The Colonel at first decided to say nothing
until her return, leaving the clock as it
was, that the melancholy spectacle might
be presented in its full force ; but meeting
the rebellious face of Jenny Spilled in the
hall, he could not resist the temptation of
saying, " That brute of a monkey of yours
is up on the roof," and then passed on
without condescending to give any further
information.

Spilled rushed up to her mistress's rooms

to put down some things she had in her
hand, and was hastening back again
through the little hall to go and find
Jack the garden boy to send him on to
the roof, when she heard from the closet
the well-known sound of the king wanting
to be released, and in great astonishment
she opened the door and out leaped the
monkey. Having caught him and put
him into his house, she returned to the
little hall ; then, by a sudden inspiration,
she went back to her room, lit a candle,
and proceeded once more to the closet.
She first looked in with the candle, then
stepping over the high board at the foot
of the door, she entered the closet to
make a closer examination. She almost
immediately saw, in the left-hand corner
next to her, a small low door a little open.
The opening of the door, being close up

against the partition which divided the
closet from the outer hall, could not be
seen unless one entered or stretched very
far into the closet, as the partition took a
sweep backwards, following the curve of
the stairs outside. When this door was
properly closed, few would have suspected
it was there. When Spilled opened this
little door and saw that it led into a long
passage, she became breathless with excitement.
She first closed the door of the
closet opening from the hall, and then,
stooping down, courageously entered the
passage to see where it led to. It was
very narrow but high, and seemed to go
straight as far as the outer wall of the
house. There she came to some steep
narrow stairs, which turned sharp to the
left, and mounting these, she found herself
in another passage above, which appeared

to be on a level with the ceiling of Mar;
rooms. This passage led directly back
again from the way she had come in the
passage below, but was of much greater
length. After she had gone some distance,
she came upon three little slits in the wall
to the left near the ground, by which daylight
entered. On stooping, she was surprised
to find herself looking down on the
east stairs and the drawing-room door,
and she could hear Harrison's voice in the
hall, and the banging of the swing-door.
This sudden contact with the outer world
gave her fresh courage to proceed. Near
the extremity of this passage, which seemed
to end in nothing, she came on another
short flight of stairs which turned to the
right, and led her up into another short
passage. She went down this to find, quite
at the end, in the wall on her left, the

framework of a door, the sill of which was
about six inches from the ground. The
door itself had fallen from its place, and
rested slantingly against the wall at the
end of the passage. Spilled then examined
the opening of the doorway. The
other side seemed to be blocked up by some
woollen substance stretched across it, but
at the bottom, above the sill, was a narrow
opening through which daylight came.
She could pass in her arm, but could see
nothing beyond very distinctly. She then
examined more closely, and found that one
corner of the woollen stuff was loose, and,
pushing it inwards, she could see through
into a room.

She put down her candle, and tearing
the opening large enough to pass through,
found herself on a high narrow bed, which
had been placed with its head against

the opening. The room was handsomely
wainscoted, and had a fireplace. It was
not very large, and had an attic roof; it
was only furnished with a square table
and a few chairs — one of them with a high
back and wooden arms — and an oak press
with a cupboard and drawers underneath.
It was lighted by one window, in which a
pane of glass was broken ; this window had
also shutters, but they were not closed. In
the thick dust on the floor she saw the
marks of the monkey's feet. She sprang
down, and proceeded to examine further.
There were three doors in the room, one
of which was open, and she passed through
and found a little chapel with an altar
undressed, and two pictures of saints, one
was on the wall, and the other had fallen
to the ground. This chapel was lighted
by a small window in the roof. Another

door opened into a small room which had
evidently been used for purposes of washing
and dressing. A looking-glass, dotted
with dark spots, still hung against the side.
The third door opened on a handsome staircase
which was quite dark, and here Spilled's
courage failed her, as she knew that
she was now in the priest's hiding-place
over the library, which she had often heard
described, and that this staircase led from
the concealed entrance in the library. The
entrance she had come in by was, then, the
secret escape known to tradition, but lost
to the present generation ; as the Colonel
never would have anything moved from its
place, nor curiosity satisfied by any rummaging
of the house. By this means the
occupant of the room could pass down into
Mary's little garden, and escape into the
lane by the door that has been mentioned,

VOL. i. 17

and so to the coast. Spilled was greatly
tempted to find her way down to the
library, but her fear of the ghost of the old
squire prevented her. She returned again
to the closet in the little hall, and, having
closed the small low door as carefully as
she could, she returned to her own room.
On looking at herself in the glass, she wj
horrified at her own picture. Her bright
fair hair looked as if it had been powdered
with cinders, her face was deadly pale, her
deep blue eyes shone with excitement like
sapphires in the sunlight, and her dainty
clothes were covered with dirt and cobwebs.
She changed her dress, and cleaned
herself as hastily as she could, and then sat
down on her bed to think of what she
should do about her discovery. At length,
for reasons of her own, she decided to keep
the matter to herself for the present.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE KING OF ZANZIBAR SAVES HIMSELF
FROM BANISHMENT BY TAKING ARSENIC.

What is it about a lady's riding-habit that
makes it look so much in place in an old-fashioned
garden withered brick walls covered
with patches of silver-grey lichen ? It must
be its simplicity. Mary having seen Queen
Elizabeth in her stable and taken off the
bridle herself, according to her wont since
the days of her first pony, had a friendly
little stable chat with her devoted admirer
and friend, Mr. Spilled, who would have
knocked any man down who said a word

against her — this however, he was capable
of, on even smaller provocation, having
all the spirit and velocity of action of his
dare-devil race, albeit sobered by the
strait-jacket of wages and dependence.
After Mary had finished her chat, she
returned by the kitchen-garden to the
house. It was a pleasant picture she
presented — one that goes to the heart of
old and young — as, refreshed by her gallop,
she came lightly along by the old wall in
the rays of the October evening sun, with
her sweet face and natural air, holding the
skirt of her habit in one hand, and in the
other her whip and tan-coloured gloves,
which repeated the colour of her hair that
had broken somewhat out of bound in her
brisk ride.

Mary, feeling the pleasure of a little
walk after her ride, turned into the enclosed

garden in front of the house, when
she encountered the Colonel.

My dear," he said with an aggrieved
air, " that monkey of yours has been upon
the roof."

She was only too glad to hear he was
anywhere, as she feared he had been
secretly banished or killed to spare her
feelings.

Look ! ' he said, glancing up at Don
Carlos with an expression of injury almost
as great as Monsieur de orchestra's.

Mary looked, and saw nothing that
appeared to her very remarkable ; the
hands pointed to the hour of two, and it
was certainly now nearly four. But what
of that ? She turned her face to hide a smile.

Don't you see it has stopped ? ' said
the Colonel. " That confounded little
brute has been meddling with it ! '

Oh, dear grandpa, what has he
done ? " she said, getting alarmed at this
appalling intelligence.

Done ! He has stopped it three times,
and I don't know yet if the mischief has
ended there."

Grandpa, I am sure you will soon
get it right again."

I am not at all sure of that," he said ;
and, seized with this depressing idea,
he suddenly started off to visit the tower,
leaving Mary in the dark as to the present
fate of the king. She then ran into the
house to look for Spilled.

She found the monkey in his house
again, and notwithstanding his double
crimes of murder and malicious attempts
on valuable property, he was greeted with
rejoicing.

But where did you find him, Spilled ? '

I caught him on the landing, Miss
Mary. He had been up on the roof and
come back again."

Mary's attention was too much taken up
at this moment by something else to press
the inquiry further, for on close inspection
she thought the king looked dreadfully
ill and changed.

But there is something wrong with
him, Spilled; he looks as if he were
dying."

Oh, he's only starved, ma'am. I have
given him something to eat."

Yes, but he hasn't touched it," said
Mary ; and she took the monkey out of his
house, and placed him on her lap. " He
is as cold as ice, Spilled, and his face looks
as if he had been poisoned. He must have
eaten something. We must send for Mr.
Rogers," she said after a moment's reflection.

Now, Mr. Rogers was the great vet of
the neighbourhood, a man with a grain of
real common sense in his head, who had discovered
the merits of simplicity, and who
was a great personage with the farmers and
hunting gentleman around — more looked
up to than any doctor, unless he came
down from London by an express train.

Mary wrapped up the king in one of her
own little woollen shawls, and placed him
on some pillows near the fire, where he lay
so still, it was quite alarming. She then
hastened down to find her grandfather.
She met him coming down from the tower
to get some tools — a look of urgency in his
face.

I told you so, Mary — the clock is
injured ! " he called out as soon as he saw
her, and passed on. Mary followed him
into the hall.

But, grandpa, we have caught the
king, and he is dreadfully ill, and I want
you to let me send for Mr. Rogers."

Was ever such a thing heard of ? a rival
invalid to start up at a moment like this ;
and the rival, " that little brute of a
monkey ! '

Send for Rogers for a monkey, my
dear ! you must be out of your mind. Give
him a good whipping and put him in the
coal cellar," and he passed into his room.

Mary knew it was of little use to persist
with her grandfather. But what was to
be done ? She then thought of what she
might have remembered at first — that she
had an excellent doctor close at hand in
Harrison, who had for years been an
ardent student of homoeopathy and medical
matters in general — gaining quite a small
reputation in the neighbourhood by setting

old labourers on their legs with arnica
and bryonia — relieving the melancholy
effects of gluttony in the servants' hall
with nux vomica and pulsatilla, and
crowning all by one really brilliant performance
in restoring to health, with rhus,
a dog paralyzed in his hind-quarters, and
condemned to death by the great Mr.
Rogers himself. So she rushed off to her
room again and sent Spilled for Harrison,
who quickly arrived, only too delighted
to exercise his skill on anything.

Mary and Harrison had always been
great friends. He was her chief purveyor
of live stock, her chief defender against
invasions of her little domain, and would
never have her tastes and habits questioned
by any one. "If she had no other companions,
she must have these," he used to
say. He had even caught for her himself

those much hated and persecuted little
animals, which haunt barns and old houses,
that she kept in a cage in the garden — she
wished to see if they could be tamed, and
if they were as black as they were painted.
Harrison carefully examined the monkey.
He thought at first he was only suffering
from exposure and starvation ; but other
symptoms which appeared when they
moved him, and the expression of his face,
led him to think he had got hold of something
poisonous. He was much bedaubed
with some fatty matter, which Harrison
smelt and tasted, and on Mary mentioning
that he had been up in the clock-tower,
Harrison exclaimed, " That's it, Miss Mary ;
he has been eating the Colonel's new grease,
and there is arsenic in it, I'll bet anything.
I remember now, he asked me if I had got
any, and I posted a letter for him the same

day to Purge and Sponge at Canterbury.
The Colonel's a magistrate, and can get
what he likes. That's it, Miss Mary," and
Harrison thought a moment. " Run
down, Mrs. Spilled, and get some honey
out of the apple-closet and a jug of boiling
water — quick ! ' He produced his little
case of medicines out of his pocket, and
selected a small bottle. When Spilled
returned, he beat up a little honey and hot
water together, putting in a few drops of
tincture, and forced some of it down the
king's throat, who was by this time too
seriously ill to offer much resistance. He
then made Spilled prepare a hot bath,
with mustard in it, and finally the unfortunate
monkey was comfortably tucked
up in a large doll's cradle, with a doll's
nightcap on his head, and placed on the
hearth rug. Mary, in her habit, with her

hat thrown off, and her hair, which had
fallen over her face, shining like dark gold
in the light of the fire, was on her knees,
gently with one hand rocking him to and
fro. Harrison had given directions about
the medicine before he left, and on running
up again before he served the dinner, he
pronounced his distinguished patient to be
somewhat better.

At dinner Mary and her grandfather
were absorbed in thinking of their separate
troubles. The clock would not go. "That
little brute' had twisted some of the
more delicate parts of the machinery, and
the Colonel, in fumbling at it by the light
of a lantern, had broken something else.
There would be silence that night over the
Manor-house. He was certain he could not
sleep, and the servants would be all late in
the morning. He was sure, also, he should

have an early visit next day from that
"sly' old Rector; but he should leave
orders that he was not at home. At length,
when the servants were gone, the Colonel
broke silence.

That monkey must go, Mary. I can't
have such a mischievous little brute on the
place any longer."

But, grandpa, we think he is going
to die. Harrison says he has been poisoned
with arsenic. Was there any arsenic in that
stuff you made over the fire ? '

The Colonel looked guilty.

What business has Harrison to give his
opinion ? " he exclaimed. But the little shot
had its due effect. His delicate conscience
did not like to feel that even a monkey
could be poisoned by his carelessness in
leaving poison about in an open place
that a workman or any one going on the

roof might have got at ; and he remained
silent.

Mary saw her advantage. " Grandpa,"
she said, coming close to his side and taking
the crackers out of his hand to crack his
walnuts, " I am very sorry the king has
touched the clock, but if he should live and
you won't send him away this time, I will
have a chain made for him so that he can't
get loose again. "

Mary went on cracking with little consideration
for her grandfather's power of
digestion.

At last he said gently, " Those little
brutes, my dear, have as many lives as a cat.
I dare say he will recover ; " and she knew
the king was saved — at any rate from
banishment.

She said no more, and went into the
drawing-room with her aunt, who had not

uttered a word during this little colloquy,
thinking the whole matter was " disgusting,"
in which opinion she was supported
by Jenkins.

As soon as " Aunt Augusta ' was well
asleep, Mary stole upstairs to see how the
king was getting on. He had now become
excited, trying to tear off his nightcap, and
jabbering fiercely as if still fighting with
the parrot. Harrison was sent for again,
who gave him some aconite, and had him
moved further from the fire ; and Jenny
Spilled had the pleasure of sitting up,
alternatively with her mistress, to give him
his medicine, — though Mary slept little,
thinking of all her misfortunes, and missing
the voice of Don Carlos, to which she had
been so accustomed from a child.

The next morning Harrison paid a very
early visit to his patient, and pronounced

him out of immediate danger. Indeed,
there could be no doubt of this, as he was
sitting up in his cradle, cheerfully tearing
its lining to pieces, with which hopeful little
amusement Mary would not allow Spilled
to interfere.

When Mary came down to prayers, she
gave her grandfather such a sweet little
kiss, putting her two hands on his shoulders
and saying, " the king was much better,"
that the old man declared in his heart
it was very hard to refuse anything to
such a little siren ; and as he mechanically
read aloud on his knees Bishop Lexicon's
prayer for the morning, he said inwardly
to himself, " The infernal little brute was a
nuisance, no doubt ; but he gave her something
else to think about besides that damned
fellow who had got hold of her, and it was
better it should remain for the present."

VOL. i. 18

CHAPTER XY.

SILENCE REIGNS IN THE WOODEN TOWER,
AND THE TERRIBLE SPIRIT OF THE OLD
DAIRY AGAIN APPEARS.

For a whole week the injured Don Can
refused to stir. The Rector was so unwell
that he had to request the Colonel to
honour him with a visit at the Rectory, to
transact their usual business, as the Colonel
gave a ready and liberal hand to all that
went on in the parish. Twice during this
time did the Colonel pay a visit to
Canterbury, carrying with him a large
leather bag supposed to contain legal
documents, as his solicitor lived in that

venerable and peaceful old city. They
must, however, have been of an unusually
solid and time-defying substance, judging
by the look of the bag outside ; but, as
we are aware the enthusiastic old Colonel
heartily despised all modern clocks and
clock makers, we must not jump to the
conclusion on that account that the bag
contained anything of this nature. At
length the Colonel sat down to luncheon
with such a suppressed look of triumph
and satisfaction, that Mary knew things
were at last going well aloft ; and as they
rose from the table she heard in the
distance Don Carlos striking two, though
it was more than five minutes past that
hour by her own watch.

But this silence in the wooden tower
had not been without signification. Solomon
had reversed the order of history,

and had come to visit the Queen of
Sheba, and the spirit of the murdered
naval captain of the " undiscovered subterranean
passage ' had appeared to Mrs.
Walker.

The King of Zanzibar, still attended by
his doctor and his two nurses, was established
in Mary's bedroom on account of its
greater warmth, as he had developed an
ill-sounding cough, and Harrison feared
congestion of the luu^s ; and very interesting
— and comical also, to profane eyes — he
looked in his little fur coat which Mary
made for him from one of her own, and
which he amused himself by pulling to
pieces.

About the middle of this week Harrison
appeared at Mary's door with a beautiful
new parrot, which his friends at Deal had
found for him at Hastings. Mary was

greatly pleased at this devotion, and even
with the bird ; but she felt he could never
be the same as the mourned and long-loved
Mr. Gregoo, and it was not without a
certain pain she saw him put into the old
cage, and established on the familiar perch.
She endeavoured to hide her feelings from
Harrison, who had now that look of kindness
in his face, as he gave the history of
the bird, which mostly underlies all real
excellence of whatever kind. She could
at first see little difference in this bird
from the old one, but she soon found he
had not such a beautiful tail, nor such
a look of quiet dignity, though he was
more solemn and did not seem so shy with
strangers.

What is he called, Harrison ? ' she
asked.

Harrison hesitated a moment. Then he

smiled, and said, " They say he's called
Solomon, Miss Mary ' (he would never
call her ma'am , "but you can change that,
miss."

"Oh, delightful!" she said. "I shall
certainly not change it, and the Queen of
Sheba shall come up and pay him a visit
directly."

Harrison, after looking at the king,
departed, and as he went out, closing the
door with a slight bang after him, Solomon
spoke. " Go away, you old fool ! ' he
screamed out in a sharp vixenish voice,
and Mary laughed and thought she might
get to like him after all.

Never was there such an old ramshackle
of a place as the offices at the
Manor," declared Mrs. Walker, who was a
dragon for cleaning and routing things out
that had not been disturbed for ages.

There was a bad smell down at the
bottom of the passage near the farmers'
room that she was determined to get to
the bottom of. Spilled declared it came out
of the old dairy. Harrison had got another
key that would open it, if she liked to see.

Mrs. Walker, up to this time, had more
enmity to bad smells than fear of ghosts ;
so, after tea on the last evening of this
eventful week, Spilled gave her the key
and she set off, candle in hand, to survey
this place in her domains from which she
had been excluded. After some difficulty
she turned the lock and entered. The old
dairy was a large place, the same size as
the entrance hall above, and part of the
original building. It had a stone floor, a
stone table in the middle, and wide stone
slabs running round the greater part of it
for the milk-pans ; but against the wall,

facing the door, was a heavy wooden
dresser which went nearly up to the
ceiling, and was placed on four high Dutch
iron castors, such as are still to be seen in
old Dutch farmhouses. There was a very
bad smell in the dairy no doubt, and Mrs.
Walker was enchanted. Her keen nose
soon traced it to something under the
dresser — " dead rats, no doubt." She
looked underneath as well as she could,
but could see nothing, excepting that the
floor was very wet. Then she seized the
dresser, and tried to roll it out on its
castors, but it would not move an inch.
Getting impatient, she put the light down
on the table, and seizing the dresser again
with both hands, she gave it a savage pull,
with the full force of her great weight.
There was a loud snap, and the dresser
rolled out so easily she nearly fell backwards.

On looking behind it she found
two things she hardly expected — a drain
oozing up in the corner, and in the wall a
strong low door, that was a little open.
Her savage delight at unearthing her
enemy, which was, " only exactly what
she expected," at first turned her attention
from the door ; then her curiosity was
roused, and she suddenly remembered
Spilled's account of the subterranean
passage and its terrible occupant.
Nothing daunted, she pushed the door,
which moved with difficulty on its hinges,
and found herself in a passage which led
downwards. She then boldly set out to
explore.

But we must return a moment upstairs.
Soon after Mrs. Walker had gone from the
housekeeper's room, Harrison came to look
for her ; and finding Spilled there, she told

him where she was gone. Harrison was
very wroth at his key having been taken
without his leave, and set off at once,
candle in hand, to see " what that officious

old was meddling with down there."

On arriving at the dairy he very quickly
divined what had happened, and went
through the inner door to look for Mrs.
Walker and see for himself what she
had discovered. He soon heard heavy
breathing ; and a few yards down the
passage he found Mrs. Walker, insensible,
and lying with her face on the ground.
He put down his light and tried to lift her,
but she was rigid, and cold as ice. He
then dragged her with all his force as far
as the entrance to the dairy, and ran upstairs
for assistance. In a short time he
returned with the two footmen and Spilled,
and between them they struggled up with

the ponderous woman, and at last got heron
to the sofa in the housekeeper's room.

She was still cold and insensible, but
breathing heavily, her face dark and
strange. Harrison thought she had been
choked with foul air, and although his
own candle had not gone out, yet, as he
found her with her face towards the door,
she had probably been running back again
when she fell. The windows were opened,
and Spilled undid her stays, which were
very much as if they were made of sheet-iron
and sail-cloth ; and that lively young
person to this day never ceases to give a description
of the Yorkshire stays, " where all
the clothes were made that people wore ! '
Her own even at this time came from Paris.

Harrison would not give her anything.
He said as long as she breathed she would
come to ; and in course of time she was

able to sit up on the sofa, with a very scared
and bloodless face and breathing with
difficulty. Spilled was anxious to know
if she had seen anything ?

Oh yes ; it was horrible ! She didn't
like to think of it ! "

Harrison now gave her a stiff glass of
brandy and water, and her tongue soon
became loosened.

It came towards her all on fire — a
great tall man, with blood streaming down
his face, One of his eyes was gone, and
there was only a deep red hole, and the
other eye was like an electric that glared
at you with a murderous look ; and he had
a great long sword which he held out from
him slanting-ways, and fire streamed from
it down to the ground. And she turned as
cold and as stiff as a stone gate-post, and
couldn't move to save her own mortal soul ;

and he came and stood stark up quite close
to her, so that she could have touched him,
and then she didn't know what happened
after that."

Harrison was just going to laugh the
matter off, and declare it was only the
had air — but a glance from Spilled stopped
him, and as dinner-time was approaching,
he ran off to lock up the dairy again,
deciding to leave a further investigation of
the passage until the next day.

Mrs. Walker still felt " so bad " that she
declared she must go to bed. Having
performed that operation, she lamented in
comfort her never-ending misfortunes. Here
she had been so comfortable ; and though
the " under ones" had given her the usual
trouble that was to be always counted on
in inferiors who knew more than their
betters, yet the housekeeper's room was as

nice and polite as real ladies and gentlemen,
and she hadn't much to complain of
there, except that they was obstinate in
their own ways. But she couldn't stay
and be frighted to death in a place that
was worse than living in a madhouse. Was
ever such ill-luck to have to go tramping
again ! She was sick to dying of gentlemen's

service. " Oh ! if only Walker now ! '

Walker was a splendid old sea-dog, much
respected by every one, who commanded
the brig Charlotte Maria, of Whitby, to the
great satisfaction of her owners ; but he
never could command " that darned old
missus of his " and had refused to live with

her for years. "If only Walker now !

She was sure the character of her blood
was altered." And this invincible old
bully (though zealous and willing ever todo
her duty to her employers) cried herself

to sleep like a child, thinking the
whole world was wrong but herself.

After breakfast the next morning,
Harrison decided it would be safer to tell
the Colonel at once of what had been discovered
; but he was deep in his last
operations on the clock, and, though much
interested, he settled he would go with
Harrison into the old dairy after luncheon,
and they would decide if it was safe to
enter the passage.

In the forenoon, Mary was in distress
again about the king. He seemed to have
a relapse, and be in a very prostrate and
sinking condition. Harrison went up to
give him lachesis — having found this
serpent's poison of particular value to
animals in a like state — and during his
visit, he told his young mistress of the
discovery that had been made the night

before. But Spilled had been beforehand
with him. Mary had not known, however,
of the intended exploration, and she was
now anxious to join the party. Harrison
thought it only right that the future heiress
should be present on such an important
occasion, and he promised " to stick up for
her to the Colonel."

After the servants' dinner, he came to
fetch his master.

Don't you think, sir, Miss Mary ought
to be present ? " he said.

Oh dear no ; " said the Colonel ; " quite
unnecessary. And we don't know if it is
safe yet."

But it will be something for her to
remember all her life, sir, and "

jjXt this moment the Rector arrived.
Having heard Don Carlos strike, he
thought it would be safe to pay a visit.

Ah ! you have come exactly at the
right moment ! " cried the Colonel ; and he
related to him " the capital discovery that
had been made."

The Rector consented to join the party.
He thought if the lights burnt properly
there would be no danger.

Miss Mary also appeared upon the scene.
Do let me come too, grandpa ! " she said.

Nonsense, my dear ; it is not safe."

But if it is not safe for me, grandpa,
it is not safe for you, and I shan't let you
go," she said playfully.

Well, well, well ! you may come and
have a peep behind, but you must not come
too near, mind." And the party set off
for the dairy.

Harrison, the night before, had opened

the dairy window, which was a long one,

high up in the wall, with an iron grating
vol. i. 19

outside level with the ground. He had
also left the door into the underground
passage open, thinking the bad air, if
there was any, might escape in the night.

They entered the dairy with great
caution ; but the air seemed quite fresh
and the candles burnt brightly. They
then proceeded to the passage, advancing
slowly at first ; but the air seemed equally
good there, and the Rector was of opinion
that there was no danger at that end. They
went down the passage, and soon entered a
long cavern in the chalk rock, which was
one of the chalk holes mentioned, and
common enough in this part of the county.
The air still seemed good, and the rheumatic
Rector found there was even a draught,
and hence little danger, he thought, so they
advanced boldly. After they had gone
some distance, they came on the right to

what looked like an old opening that had
been blocked up.

The Rector considered a moment. " I
know where that goes to," he said ; " into
Ruins Barn. There is an old opening
there into a chalk hole that has been
blocked up ever since I have known it,
and this is where the smugglers used to
bring in the kegs."

A little further on, they came to a place
that had the appearance of having been used
as a living-room. Regular seats were cut
out in the dry chalk, and over these, other
places were formed that might have been
used as beds. The roof also was darker in
colour, and looked as if it had at one time
been blackened by smoke. Mary whispered
to her grandfather, " she would not have
missed it for the world ; " and the old man
was glad she should take so much interest
in anything.

They then proceeded some way further,
and came to a narrow passage that mounted
upwards again. This brought them face
to face with a stone wall, in which there
was no apparent aperture ; but on examination
they found one that had been built
in. The Rector at once decided they were
against the wall of the church, as it was
made of the same stone as that building,
and so greatly at one time had smuggling
been carried on in this particular parish,
that even the church had been used. He
recalled to the Colonel's recollection that,
in their own building, there was still
a " hide ' in the roof. The party then
decided they would return and go to the
church, to see if they could find where
the entrance had been on the other side.
Harrison was to remain and knock against
the wall. So off they set, the two old

gentlemen as gleeful as a couple of schoolboys
over this most exciting adventure.
Mary scampered upstairs as soon as she
reached the hall, to get her hat, and, calling
out to her Aunt Augusta to come at
once to the church, she overtook the others
as the Rector was coming back with the
key. They soon heard knocking, and to
their great surprise found it came from
behind the large monument in the chancel
to John Doddingstead and Joanna his
second wife. This was a very elaborate
affair, with two figures kneeling, of which
one was the grandfather of the maiden on
the stairs, and the other the woman who
had treated her with such harshness ; but
she had such a pious and sweet expression,
as she knelt with her hands joined together
that tradition must have surely belied her,
especially as she had shown such devotion

to the memory of her husband in putting up
this monument at her own expense during
her lifetime.

Now the Rector knew much more about
the real history of the Doddingstead family
than the Colonel did himself. He knew that
this monument was long antecedent to the
great smuggling period when they had got
into trouble, like many other neighbours,
at which time he did not doubt the passage
had been blocked up — probably immediately
after Captain Yan Goyen had been killed
in the lane outside. As his body was never
found, he was said by tradition to be buried
in this chalk hole with a chest of silver
money. The whole matter had been passed
over in guarded silence by succeeding
generations. The Colonel would never
allow that the Doddingsteads had been
mixed up with the smuggling ; but that

was not the opinion of the neighbourhood,
which affirmed that they had been one of
the worst of all in boldly defrauding the
Government, and that the old dairy had
been often filled with something that had
a very different character from milk. But
probably the Colonel knew best, " neighbourhoods
" are noted liars. The knocking
still came directly behind the monument,
and they answered back with the Rector's
walking-stick. But how could the passage
have been through the monument, even
though the floor of the chancel was much
below the level of the outside ?

They examined in every direction, but
there was no sign of an opening. All three
then mounted on a long form, to see better.
A high piece of elaborate carving rose up
behind the figures against the wall, and
the Rector was energetically seized with

the idea to mount up and examine this
more closely. With a great tug to help
up his rheumatic limbs he caught hold of
a part of the monument in front of the
kneeling dame, which immediately moved
out towards him. The Rector and the
Colonel were then able to turn outwards
the entire figure of Joanna (which moved
on a pivot at her feet) and a part of the
ornamental work behind attached to the
pediment, which latter was cut diagonally
across from the front to the back, the join
concealed by ornamentation. They could
now see the other side of the low entrance
which had been blocked up.

That is no smuggler's work," said the
Rector. " It must have been done by the
Roman Catholics when Whitepatch was
turned into a hiding-place for them, and
they must have used the church even after

the Reformation, as the people in the
parish still believe the ghosts at the Manor
hold midnight meetings here with the
church all lighted up."

Only think of my sitting and looking
at that for more than half the Sundays of
my life," said the Colonel, " and not
knowing what was there ! "

Miss Doddingstead now arrived. She
had first decided she would not come, and
then with an instinctive feeling that there
was something " sly ' going on in the
house, Jenkins had persuaded her to " go
and see ; ' and when the matter was
shown and explained to her by the old
Rector, who was radiant with delight, she
only remarked that " Dame Joanna looked
very ugly when she was turned that way."

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON AND Eccles. S. ^ H.

823K589W Cot v.1

Whltapatch. A romance for quiet people

3 0112 088986671



V-

v. t '

OF THE
U N I Verity
Of 1LL1 Noise


K569w

A Romance FOB QUIET PEOPLE.

II faudrait avoir le courage de ne se preoccupied ni des success du
salon ni de opinion de la presse, ni de l'eventualite des recompenses, et
ne s'inquieter que de se contenter soi-meme." — Alfred Stephens, Impressions
sur la Peinture.

Wholesomeness is the salt of life." — Spanish Proverb.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

^ttbltsfjers in ©rotnarg to %}tx fHajcstg tfje €luem.

1887.

(All rights reserved")

v, &

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

■+o*-

CHAPTEE PAGE

I. The Ghost of the Garden . 1

II. A Political Storm in a Teacup 17

III. The Hero tramples Little Animals
to Death, the Ghost of Mr. Gregoo
appears to the King of Zanzibar,
and Mary fights another Battle 38
IV. Crackskull Common and the Four-cross
Way . . 73

Y. The Visit to Paris . . 88

VI. Mrs. Spilled is caught in her own

JL RAP . . ••• oO

VII. The Colonel enters a Young Lady's
Bedroom at a Highly Improper

XxOUlfa ••• ••• ••• ••• i i 4

VIII. Our Old Friend the Detective 139

'shatter PAGE

IX. The Colonel forgets to wind up

Don Carlos . . . 159

X. The Hon. Dick is tempted by Four-year-old
Mutton . . W»

XI. The Rector goes into Battle . 219

XII. The Colonel discovers some New Relations,
AND DETERMINES TO FIND A

Good Husband for Jenny Spilled 237

XIII. The Hon. Dick becomes a conservative

••• ••• •■■ ••• ^*xi

XIV. The Reader is taken into the Secret 258
XV. The Ring of Venus . . 285

CHAPTER I.

THE GHOST OF THE GARDEN.

A few mornings after these events Mary
was very busy in her room carving a
lovely tombstone for Mr. Gregoo's grave in
the little garden, in real white marble,
inscribing, with deep-cut fanciful letters,
to be afterwards filled in with gold, vermilion,
and other colours, his many
amiable qualities and high talents, and
his tragic end — giving his age as one
hundred and twenty, which Harrison had

said she might do with certainty ; and, as
vol. ii. 20

a text at the bottom, which would recall
him to the affectionate remembrance of
friends and admirers, his great performance,
" Turn the hands out! shorten sail! '
The king was decidedly better, though
still confined to Mary's bedroom, and
Harrison thought he would pull through.
Solomon, though he could never take the
place of Mr. Gregoo, was nevertheless a
very amusing bird, producing old English
proverbs and scraps of poetry at absurd
moments, and quickly learning to imitate
Spilled's voice. Although the sad look
would still often return to Mary's eyes,
youth and nature were asserting their
rights, and she was on the whole more
cheerful and like herself, when Spill
came up with two pieces of news — the
ghost in the garden, which no one living
had ever seen, had at last appeared ; and

a very tall strange gentleman had come
to stay at the Little Sack. Mary first
coloured violently, then turned very white,
and her hand trembled as she went on with
her carving. Spilled ran on about the
new apparition, which she had before
believed to be almost entirely her own
invention.

There is no doubt about it, ma'am.
William" (the under groom, who slept in
the house) " saw it distinctly as he was
coming in to prayers the night before last,
standing as if it had been a tree in the
ground in the kitchen-garden — by the wall
just there under your windows, Miss Mary ;
and Mr. Bingham ' (the cowman) " last
Monday night saw it go through the
cherry orchard and disappear like a flash.
He was quite sure of it — there wasn't any
human being born as tall as that, and

William says the same; it stood up high*
than the wall, and it was so still lie didn't
know at the time what it was. He thought
it was something the gardeners had plant'
there."

Poor Mary listened with her head bent
down and her heart beating rapidly.

Oh, nonsense, Spilled," she murmured :
they must have fancied it."

No, indeed, Miss Mary ! they are qui
sure, and Mrs. Walker looks awfully pale
since she heard of it. But she hasn't said
anything more about going since that
night she went to the old dairy ; but bq<
as bad as ever to the maids, and Eliza save
she shall go if she stops, it is quite impossible
to please her — what's right one
day is wrong the next. Eliza is so bothered
that she boiled a duck yesterday instead of
a fowl ; and then Mrs. Walker said she was

worse than a land lubber in a ship's galley.
What's a land lubber, Miss Mary ? Eliza
says she is sure it is something dreadfully
low, like ' scum of the earth.'

Landlubber, Spilled — I am not quite
sure exactly ; you had better ask Harrison.
I know a ship's galley is the place where
they cook."

So I did, ma'am ; but he laughed and
said it was the scullery-maid on board
ship. But I never heard they kept maids
on board ship, and I don't believe it's
that."

We had better look in Dr. Johnson,"
said Mary.

And Mr. Harrison lost his temper
yesterday, and told Mrs. Walker to go to
the devil about the Colonel's cheese — that's
sure to go straight to Miss Doddingstead ;
and father's furious, too, as she has been

interfering and changing the time of the
men coming in to supper, and father was
a little hot with her, and she told him
to go and rake up his stable-muck, and
not be dictating to her — that to father ! —
and it will be a miracle if there is anyone
of us here, except Mrs. Jenkins, by
Christmas-time."

Mary, notwithstanding her agitation,
was moved by the prospect of this dreadful
revolution, and she endeavoured to cheer
Spilled by saying that, " she did not think
her grandfather would really support Mrs.
Walker when he knew all, as she had
heard him say to her aunt one morning
after prayers, when Mrs. Walker first
came, that she 'looked like an old
harridan.' "

Spilled said " she hoped it might be e
but the Colonel was so obstinate that you

could never count upon anything with him
except the contrary."

But who can the strange gentleman at
the Little Sack be, Spilled ? ' said Mary,
unable to bear any longer in silence the
weight of her thoughts.

Whoop ! Naughty bird ! ' cried Solomon.


Mary became very red again, made a
slip with her chisel, and spoilt a letter.

Spilled, brought back from her own
affairs, thought a moment, and then she
exclaimed, " I shouldn't wonder if it's him,
Miss Mary ! "

How very wrong and imprudent," said
Mary, though half an hour before she had
been thinking of what she would have
done if she had been a man. She had
written to her friend the Hon. Dick, as he
requested, and had not been quite pleased

at hearing nothing from liii in return.
"If grandpa should hear of it! I>ut
I shall not go outside the garden, Spilled,
until I hear he is gone."

But it might not be him after all, Miss
Mary. Captain Huntingcroft may have
lent it to some one else."

This idea, however, did not seem to
please Mary either ; and she went on
carving in silence.

No one has heard his name, ma'am,
and you might as well try to get an
answer out of a sign-post as Mrs. Crispin,
who takes care now of the Little Sack.
But they say lie doesn't shoot or hunt, and
walks about by himself all day in the side
lanes and places."

Mary's heart beat rapidly again.

I think I shall go down in the garden
and look at the queen, Spilled."

She put down her tools, and went to her
room to get her hat, and Spilled remained
cogitating over many matters as she sat at
work near the window.

It is a long lane that has no turning,"
said Solomon, catching the word " lane,"
and he went on whooping and quoting
Hamlet, till Spilled, getting impatient, rose
and covered him with a cloth.

That evening Ruth the scullery-maid was
engaged in the unpoetic business of washing
dishes in the strange old back kitchen of
the Manor-house. And yet the scene had
a certain poetry of its own, for Ruth was a
very pretty girl, clean and neat in her dress,
notwithstanding her occupation, and the
quaint old place, that looked as if it had
long passed from human care except for an
occasional rough coat of whitewash in the
summer, was full of association with forgotten

generations. Its great copper boiler
in the corner, that had cooked food for endless
successions of birds and animals, now of
the same dust as their master's out of
date and as green as an old brass cannon;
the huge grate that once glowed with broad
fires which roasted monster joints in the
press of busy feasts of old, was now silent
and dark with slow rust, and its wide
mantelpiece, broad and heavy as a seat by
the wayside — with its pewter plates and
tall pewter candlesticks grey with age and
long neglect was mournful as a flower-garden
in autumn. Round the walls strong-shelves,
bent and inclining, yet still holding
gigantic pots, kettles, and pans of a past
time — once bright and the pride of the
kitchen, now despised and uncared for —
were humble examples of departed greatness.
Overhead the deep beams in the

ceiling' had sunk here and there, and
the uncouth iron hooks bedded in the
hardened oak were now rusted and unprofitable.
Against the side the antique
wooden dresser was bare and unfurnished,
and had long been deserted for its younger
rival in the kitchen — itself an antiquity
despised by Mrs. Walker ; the fantastic
old pump, tall and solemn as a grenadier,
yet comical as a clown with its odd spout
and long curved handle, was a homely contemporary
of the lordly Don Carlos ; and
the dark old window with its iron bars, that
never knew blind or curtain, resembled that
of an old prison or convent. All this,
lighted by one small modern candle that
gave shapes and shadows like the goblin
forms of a departed age, contrasted strongly
with the blooming Ruth, her round bare
arms, and her neat dress pinned up behind

her, finishing her task with a cheerful
seriousness that was happiness in the
peaceful and solitary obscurity. But such
continuous and exciting sounds of laughter
now came from the distance, that Bath,
hastily wiping her hands on her apron, ran
off to see what it was all about, and found
John entertaining the maids by an imitation
of the common enemy, Mrs. Walker.

This ill-used and much misunderstood
person was making her round of nightly
inspection before prayers ; and coming in
by a side door to the back kitchen, she found
the candle burning and Ruth absent, with
her work unfinished. She was of opinion
that Ruth was much too good-looking a girl
to be in a gentleman's house, as the men
were always slopping her in the passages ;
and she had settled in her mind to recommend
Miss Doddinsrstead to change her fora

more matter-of-fact Cinderella. She even
suspected her of going out after dark " gallivanting
' with the stable men — a matter
of which the girl was entirely innocent ; so
she opened the back door and went out into
the kitchen court. This place was almost
a garden, with a grass plot having a cherry
tree in the centre. The building, with
broad brick pavements, ran round three
sides, and the fourth was separated from the
kitchen-garden by high trellis work with a
gate in the middle. Mrs. Walker, finding
no one in the court, opened the trellis gate
and looked into the garden, forgetting all
other matters in following the bent of her
natural genius " for keeping people in
order." The wall of the kitchen garden,
which separated it from Mary's little
garden, was to the right of this back court,
and there in the pathway near the wall

stood, within twenty yards of her, as still asa
statue, a tall human figure of supernatural
height, with the light from Mary's passage
window streaming full on the upper part of
it. " She saw it as plain as a pikestaff. The
head was uncovered, and the face looked
ghastly white and mournful, and it had its
arms straight down by its sides like a figure
taken out of a coffin, and clinging to one of
its hands was a large black object that
might be a vampire." Mrs. Walker gave a
loud shriek, and rushed panting into the
house ; then, bursting into the kitchen
upon the astonished servants, she fell to the
ground in violent hysterics.

Harrison was immediately sent for, and
prayers had to be stopped — Jenkins going
off to inform Miss Doddingstead that Mrs.
Walker had fallen down in a fit. This
incapable person soon arrived on the scene

herself to take command. It was long
before they could bring the housekeeper
round, but they at last got her into bed, and
the unfortunate Ruth had to stay with her
all night with the door locked. In the
morning she refused to get up, and, sending
for Miss Doddingstead, announced her
immediate departure.

Harrison on this went up also to see her.
He had heard that Lady Gentlebird was
again changing her housekeeper, and he
suggested that Mrs. Walker should write a
"proper letter" to her ladyship, and offer
herself to be taken back again ; in the
mean time he would send her over to his
sister at Deal, where she might take some
warm sea baths that " would restore the
quality of her blood," which she was so
convinced had been altered.

This arrangement being agreed to, Harrison

forwarded Mrs. Walker's letter —
which he took care to see was " proper " —
nine miles across country by Mr. Spilled
himself, for diplomatic reasons, mounted on
the sturdy Rusty Jack, to Lady Gentlebird's
peaceful mansion. Now that his enemy
was beaten and in full retreat he could be
generous ; though he had no objection to
returning her ladyship's bad coin on her
ladyship's hands if her ladyship was silly

enough to take it back again.

»J

CHAPTER II.

A POLITICAL STORM IN A TEACUP.

Mary, this same morning, was in her room

in deep consultation with Spilled. She

had heard the loud shriek in the garden

the night before, and had been in an agony

of mind lest her lover should be discovered,

for she did not doubt it was he. One of her

windows, as we are aware, looked into the

little garden from the corner of the room that

formed a recess, and of late she had been

in the habit of sitting here in the evening

gazing at the sky, not closing the shutters

until just before going to bed. On the
vol. u. 21

•

day before, however, she had the shutters
closed at dark, still sitting near it late in
the evening with a book in her hand.
The window in the little hall outside had
neither shutter nor curtain, but only iron
bars, and Mary had also wished to extinguish
the lamp that burnt near it ; but
Spilled having declared she should break
her neck on the stairs, it had remained
lighted as usual, and it is to be feared the
unhappy ghost of the garden had been
gazing at this window, thinking it was his
mistress's actual bower.

Mary was in great agitation of mind,
balancing between many feelings. She
wanted to convey to her lover that he
must leave the place at once — above all
things, that he was not to come about the
house like a ghost in the night. She
could not make up her mind to write to

him ; she was gratified at his constant
devotion, and yet he must be sent away.

"If you could only have seen him,
Spilled ! " she said in desperation.

Spilled did not quite like the idea of
prowling about like a ghost ' herself,
even on such a romantic errand ; but her
inventive genius was not long at fault.

I can walk over to the Spike Farm
after lunch, Miss Mary, about the Colonel's
cheeses if you like ; Mr. Harrison wants
to send somebody who can blow them up
a little, and very likely I may meet him
somewhere, as he is about there all day
they say. But I would send him a little
note, ma'am. Poor fellow ! he's really
worth something, or he wouldn't take so
much trouble. Most gentlemen like him
would sit down and smoke over it, with
brandy and soda water. / think it's very

cruel that you don't see him just once, now
he is down here ; he will get into a slow
depression, and think you don't really care
about him, and fall ill or something."

It's quite impossible, Spilled ! ' said
Mary, with her face on fire. " I should
never forgive myself! '

It's wonderful how people who are
brought up as ladies and gentlemen work
their love affairs," said Spilled. "Of course,
I know one mustn't jump into a man's
mouth, and that we must be as nice and as
difficult to catch as you kittens ; but we
mustn't get into a fog of fastidious fancying
till it's worse than hide-and-seek on a
common. When you are quite sure a man
wants to marry you, and you are quite sure
you want to marry him, and he is good and
nice and all that, and you say no to him
when you are told to do so by those in

authority over you, because they don't
fancy him themselves, it's very like
starving yourself to death to keep company
with your elders that have got no
appetite ; and even St. Paul himself, when
he tells children to obey their parents,
gives them a loophole to save their consciences
by, and he ties people up pretty
tight too — particularly woman — which
always makes me think he must have been
crossed in his love affairs ; but if you come
to that, there is always somebody who
wants to prevent your doing everything —
except going to church ! And, of course,
Miss Mary, I know we must listen to our
elders, because they can see over the tops
of our heads, but not when they look

asquint from born obstinacy like But

I don't think Captain Wyldeman will ever
go away till he's seen you ; he is not

the sort of man to be frightened by the
Colonel or any one, or he wouldn't have
come about here at night, and you'll have
to see him sooner or later."

Spilled ! " murmured poor Mary, writhing
under this sharp goading to go a way
she did not approve of, blaming her heroin
her heart one moment and pardoning
him the next as she thought of his boldness
and constancy, and yet thinking that
her grandfather would be more prejudiced
against him than ever if he discovered
this rash step, " I must write to Captain
Huntingcroft," she said, " and entreat him
to stop his coming to the garden whatever
he does ; but now he knows that he has
been seen, I should hope he would keep
away for my sake."

You must not be too sure of that, Miss
Mary. Men, when they are very much in

love, are like flies after sugar — nothing
keeps them away."

11 Then, you must try and find him,
Spilled, and entreat him for my sake not
to come near the house again. I know he
thought he would never be seen at that
time of night or he would not have come,
poor fellow, as he is most considerate, and
obeys me about everything, and never wrote
again when I told him not to ; and it is
Captain Huntingcroft, I am sure, who has
encouraged him to come down here — he
declared he would have carried me off
himself with a coach and six horses," she
said, smiling through her trouble.

And that is what I should have done
too, Miss Mary," said Spilled, with a high
colour suddenly mounting to her face ;
only I should have taken you off across
country on the back of a horse behind me,

like that picture of the lady and gentleman
in the Colonel's room."

Ridiculous, Spilled ! We should have
been caught by the telegraph directly, and
laughed at for the rest of our lives ! '

That's just it, Miss Mary ; as father
says, we live in a mean, spy-paper age, and
there is nothing big or romantic left about
anybody. People have all got so frightened
of each other and things being known, they
aren't do a thing that others don't do ;
he says that comes of too long a peace.
We want a good big fight to make people
men and women again."

"I don't think so, Spilled," said Mary
with some warmth. " I am sure grandpa
does what he likes, without thinking of anyone's
opinion."

Oh yes, ma'am, I am sure he does, and
no fear ! But, as father always says, the

Colonel is one of the real good old gentlemen
sort — in that way — who have all got
the same ways and manners at the top,
but do just as they like at the bottom ; but
the new sorts now, they are all jumps and
bobs, and for making believe to be independent
outside, and are just like a parcel
of sheep at the bottom when it really comes
to doing anything. If the Prince of
"Wales was a bachelor now, and was to
carry off some young lady on the back of
a horse behind him into the moon, do you
think, ma'am, there wouldn't be a hundred
others to go and do the same thing directly ?
And no one then would say they were
ridiculous, I am sure ! "

u No, no, Spilled ; people are only learning
at last to follow those who see best.
This is an age of young Education leading
old Ignorance like a blind man."

Oh yes, I know, Miss Mary ; but that's
what you read in your books. I don't
believe in books, though I read a good many
too. I believe more in seeing and hearing.
But father reads a good deal as well, and he
says it's nothing but an age of hurrying
and chivying about, and it's a regular game
at knocking over old things, and laughing
at them, and seeing who can knock down
the most."

You are wrong, Spilled ! The world is
full of old abuses and shams that are better
away ; and new ideas and things also are
interesting, and give one something fresh
to think about and see," said Mary rather
hotly, the Doddingstead combativeness at
last aroused.

Whoop ! " cried Solomon.

That I don't deny, ma'am. No one likes
anything fresh and new better than I do

particularly in dress ; but what I do
say, Miss Mary, is, that people who run hot
after every new sangle and things that will
be forgotten in a year, don't know the real
value of things that have stood up strong
for any time, in spite of the see-sawing
there always is in most people's minds
about nearly everything. But it's most of
it vanity and to splash up a bit to astonish
you and that you may look at them — though
it's only your second-rates who do that
after all ; for Madame de Gros is very sharp
in seeing what people are, and I've heard
her say she always knew really first-rate
people in any line by their liking to be
quiet more than by any other thing else,
and not wanting to change things unless
they were really bad. They paid much the
most regularly, too, and that's why she was
so sharp in finding them out for another

thing. Mr. Harrison says also, Miss Mary,
those who turn up their noses at everything
that is old haven't got what he calls ' the
bump of attachment and will desert you
tomorrow for a new face ; and if they are
envious, it's just those people who will be
wanting soon to drag the queen off her
throne, and be sticking up Mr. Smith and
his wife in her place — till they want to
change them too, — and be making the
bishops and archbishops preach in a chapel
like the dissenting ministers, and having
poor people's children taught astronomy
and navigation, and logic and all that, without
their knowing there is such a thing as
the Bible in particular, or turning the heel
of a stocking and such like, as it ought to
be, which is wanted as much, I say, in a
poor man's house as meat and firing. And
what's the good of stuffing galloping

notions into poor people's heads that must
always be poor — do what you will — and go
afoot ? It's like giving a man a saddle who
hasn't got a horse ; it only makes him a
conceited halfway sort of thing, and discontented
into the bargain, when he thinks he
ought to ride, and he never will do anything
but walk ; it's like "

Spilled ! ' burst in Mary, " you are
most illiberal ! You would have burnt
people at the stake, if you had lived in old
days. Why shouldn't poor people have as
good an education as the rich, and rise to
be lord chancellors and prime ministers, if
they like ? And as for what you say about
the queen, I don't see much harm in that
either, when the country is flooded with
poverty and heavy taxes — the thousands
and thousands that might go to the good of
the people, if the taxes were lightened, that

are now wasted in setting np idols for
fashionable people to curtsey before, whom
no one else is allowed to come within a mile
of, and which we could do very well without.
How can clergymen get up into the
pulpit every Sunday and preach about
humility and following the example of
Christ, and then be busying their brains all
the rest of the week — as many of them do
in London and the large towns — to get some
title or dignity to set them up above their
neighbours ? I would have no rank or
title any where except in the army and navy
and you are a bigoted Tory, Spilled ! '

At this sounding accusation, Spilled lost
her temper.

Whoop ! Naughty bird ! Water ! "
cried Solomon.

11 I am sure you are a red hot Republican-radical,
Miss Mary ; and it would make

the Colonel's hair stand on end to hear
you ; and you have learnt all that from
Miss Yan Tromp, who had got the regular
cantankerous foreign look of wishing to
drag everybody down into the same boat ! "

"Jenny, I think you forget yourself!"
said this red hot Republican-Radical and
apostle of humility, with a fine flash of
aristocratic pride in her eyes, which
changed however to sadness as the name
of her old governess recalled her former
happiness and her present trouble.

Spilled was going to retort, but Mary's
expression brought her back to the real
business in hand, and with an affectionate
look of protection, she said, " I am very
sorry, I am sure, Miss Mary, to be setting
up my opinion against yours ; but you
wouldn't have me say what I don't think,
and be smothering you up with pomatum,

as Mrs. Jenkins does Miss Doddingstead.
But we have something else to do besides
fighting over what is men's business, after
all, that we can never touch ; and I'll find
Captain Wyldeman, and stop his coming
here, if he's to be found, and if he is to be
stopped, which is quite another matter ; for
young men in love, if the door is shut in
their faces, are as bold and sly as burglars
that is, if they are of the right sort — and I
should never be surprised to find him sitting
down here quietly in your room, Miss Mary,
and teasing Solomon till you came in ! '

Mary looked alarmed at this Don Juan-like
idea, which so suddenly ended this
most unexpected political storm.

But you must give me a note to him,
Miss Mary, if it is only three lines, for I
am sure he won't listen to me else ; and he
will wonder, perhaps, what business I have

to be meddling, and that it is the Colonel
who is at the bottom of it after all."

At length Mary consented to write the
following : —

I entreat you not to come near the
house again, and to leave immediately.

M."

As soon as Spilled had finished her
early dinner, she dressed herself with care,
and departed for the Spike Farm.

After she had gone, Mary sat down fora
short time and cried bitterly ; then, starting
up, she tried to occupy herself with
her usual pursuits. She opened her box
of colours to set her palette, but finding
herself squeezing out the same colours
several times over in the wrong places, she
threw it down in disgust, and going to her
piano, she tried one of Handel's songs. She

YOL. II. 22

had a clear sweet voice, and sang Handel
with earnest simplicity and a feeling for
its sublime stateliness and rhythm most
unusual in any young person who is nota
trained professional in these days. Her
singing charmed the few connoisseurs who
heard her, and kept the servants in delight
at her door, when Spilled would allow them
to remain there. (Spilled herself did not
admire Handel. This conservative young
person oddly enough declared he reminded
her of old bores and things dead and
buried.) But no — what a converting fire
is love ! — she could not get on with that
either ; and for the first time in her life
felt almost as unsympathetic towards her
grand old favourite as Spilled. I losing
her piano with an impatient bang, that
set Solomon listening with all his might
to study this new sound, she took up

some needlework ; but even that excellent
tranquillizer of feminine vibrations failed,
and she decided to go down into the
little garden and look after her pets, which
she had neglected the whole day. When
she got to the bottom of the stairs, a tall
figure, who strangely resembled the ghost
of the garden, came out of the little summerhouse,
and stood before her.

Mary ! "

Frank ! Captain Wyldeman ! How
could you — how dare you come in here ? '

Mary, I should have died if I had
not seen you ! Don't be unkind to me ! '

How very imprudent — how wrong of
you ! If my grandfather only knew ! '

Mary, I entreat you to speak to me
for only a few minutes. If you knew how I
love you, and how wretched I am at not
seeing you or hearing anything from you

for so long ! I think of nothing but you
night and day ! " As he spoke, he advanced
towards her.

But Mary flew up the stairs and spoke
to him over the rail.

Captain Wyldeman, if you really care
for me, you would not put me to such pain
by coming here. I wonder that you have
not more consideration for me, if you have
none for yourself. You must indeed leave
the garden directly, and never come here
again."

Oh, Mary ! don't go away like that ;
we may never see each other again ! I
have got leave of absence, and I am going
abroad almost directly ; and I am even
thinking of leaving the regiment — my life
is so miserable now."

Mary remained a moment silent, shaken
by this news.

Dear Mary, I entreat you ! " he said
again, with such manly love in his voice
and in his fine blue eyes as he looked up to
her, that there is no saying what request
she might have granted if he had not
rashly advanced towards the stairs ; whereupon
young madam, who would and who
would not, shot within her door and drew
the bolts, as much upon herself as against
her lover.

CHAPTER III.

THE HERO TRAMPLES LITTLE animals TO
DEATH, THE GHOST OF MR. Greco Appears
TO THE KING OF ZANZIBAR, AND
MART FIGHTS ANOTHER BATTLE.

The Little Sack, Wednesday Evening.

"Dear H. D.,

I have seen her and spoken
to her ! But what an interview — it lasted
about three seconds ! I will tell you
exactly how it all happened. And I hope
to be more lively and cheerful this time,
though you are a little wrong to say I
write nothing but ' doleful dumps.' But
it is awfully good of you, all the same,
to read my long letters ; but you don't

know how much I feel about it all." (It was
certainly not for want of hearing about it !
But our hero was in the usual fog of
amiable delusions generated by ardent love.)
I went again to the garden last night,
and was looking up at her windows, when
a huge female came out of some back-yard
place close to me, and, letting off a scream
that would bring the devil from his Sunday
dinner, she bolted in again. I could not
think what she took me for; but I find now,
as you shall hear, she thought I was one of
the twenty ghosts Mrs. Crippin says they
have at the Manor. Some fellows then
came running from the stables — which it
appears in this strange old place are somewhere
in the kitchen-garden, — so I had to
spring over the nearest wall, and landed
on something which must have been a
cage full of little animals, as there was a

great squeaking, and a lot of small brut
bolted that I could bave sworn were rats by
the smell of them, if it were possible ! The
place was partly lighted by a window with
a candle burning in it, and I thought it
best for a time to hide in a sort of low whither
was in the corner. It had straw in
it, so I crept in and sat down, and was
thinking about Mary so near to me and
yet not able even to see her for an instant,
when I felt something pulling gently at
my hair, and on looking round, I saw a
white figure standing quite close to me.
By old Crocker ! I thought it was one of
the ghosts. I started up as if I had been
sitting on a viper, and my head went
through the roof, and I carried off the
whole building on my back like Samson ;
then I got my foot through another cage
or something, and I am sure I trod sonic

little animal to death. At last I got free
of the shed on my back, but I lost my
hat, and couldn't find it anywhere again !
I then discovered a door in a wall at the
bottom of the garden, which was only bolted
inside. I got that open, and nearly broke
my neck down a flight of steps into a dark
lane. I pulled the door to again, and on
walking a little way I made out the old
church ; and then I knew where I was, and
it flashed upon me that it must have been
her garden and her pets that I had been
trampling to death ! Will she ever forgive
me ? Just like my luck !

But I have not half finished my story yet.
Well, I got home all safe, except that Mrs.
Crippin stared at me for having no hat, and
looked as black as thunder again for my
keeping her up so late at night — 10.30 only
or eleven at the most ! But this respectable

old dragon, I find, likes to retire to her
den at eight o'clock, and I am sure she is at
her wits' ends to know what I am doing
down here, and why I stay out so late at
nights. I heard her telling Mary Number
this evening she feared I was up to no
good, and that she had better keep her
door locked !

I was dreadfully annoyed about Mary's
garden, and I went to the door in the
lane again this afternoon to see if it was
still open or if there was any chance of
my finding her there. I found the door
just as I left it, and I could not resist the
temptation of stealing in. What do you
think was the ghost ? It was her white
goat that you told me about ! Don't laugh !
I am sure you would have been frightened,
too, in such an old ghost-warren of a place.
Well ! there was the goat tied up on the

straw, and his house lying a wreck just
as I left it. My hat was underneath it.
Evidently no one had been there. The
goat began to make such a baaing when it
saw me, that I got into a summer-house, as
I was afraid they would spot me from the
windows, though, to say the truth, I should
not have much minded, except for her
sake, as I should uncommonly like to fight
that old turkey-cock of a Colonel and all
his household ; it would have done me
good, I am sure. But, revenons a nos
chevreuils. I had not been there long when
I heard her light little step on the wooden
stairs. I know it so well ! There is nota
woman in the world who treads as lightly
as she does! You should have seen her
face when she saw me ! I never saw her
look so handsome ; her eyes flashed at me
like a gun going off, and I felt almost

afraid of her. Gentle as she is, she has
got something of the thunder and lightning
sort about her when she chooses ; and she
can look so serious ! I always wonder how
she came to like such a fellow as I am.
She blew me up like anything for coming
there, and I couldn't put in a word or get
near her. If I could only have got my
arms round her ! But she flew up the stairs
like a bird, and before I could get her to
hear a word or say she would see me
again she was gone, and I heard her bolt
the door at the top. With one hat on my
head, and another in my hand, I must have
looked an awful donkey at that moment !

But I have not done yet. I find I have
got another friend at court, who backs me
up, I think, nearly as much as you do, and
that is her maid, to whom I used to send
her letters, and who she told me something

about. I thought she was some middle-aged
old faithful, all devotion and tiresome. Nota
bit of it ! She is a charming little daredevil,
and quite young. I must tell you how
I saw her. I was going back by the lane,
ready to shoot myself, when I saw coming
towards me an uncommonly good-looking
young woman most prettily dressed. She
reminded me of a servant in an old play,
but she did not look quite like a servant
either. I could not imagine who she could
be. I was going to pass her, when she
pulled me up short with, ' Captain Wyl de-man,
I think, sir ? ' I took off my hat to
her as if she were a duchess, and said,
Yes, I am Captain Wyldeman.' Whereupon
she pulled a note out of her pocket
and said, ' I have got a letter for you, sir,
from my young mistress.' I opened the
note. It was just one cruel line from Mary

to tell me to leave directly. That was all !

I suppose I must have looked like a cur with

his tail between his legs, for her hardship

at once proceeded to give me as nice a little

lecture as ever you heard for coming about

the place like a ghost on stilts — frightening

everybody into hysterics till family prayers

had to be stopped — and getting her young

mistress into trouble, if the Colonel found

it out ; and that wasn't the way, unless I

meant to carry her off like a man. And that

you might as well try to get to heaven

by staring up at the sky, as to get a young

lady by gazing up at her closed windows.'

At last she became a little more civil, and

said she was quite on my side, though she

was nobody, and that if I stuck to Mary,

the Colonel would give in yet — he was

much too fond of her to say no for ever

and that I was not to think of Groins:

away because I was told to do so, but that
I was to keep away from the house for the
present, as the servants were on the watch ;
and that I had better write to Mary again
under cover to her as before. What do
you think ? Mary is such a serious girl at
the bottom, and so delicate in her feelings,
and after the way she wrote to me last
time, I always feel as if I might crush or
break something that could never be set
right again, and yet that is why I am so
fond of her. I am sure, from what I have
seen of them, serious women are the best,
and the most loving and true when they
once belong to you ; I have noticed that
several times. You remember Di Wilson,
that the fellows were so afraid of, and how
happy she has made Campbell ? He swear
by her now, though it took him so long to
pluck up courage enough to propose.

Altogether that stunning maid has cheered
me tremendously. I wondered if I ought
to give her a good tip ; but I believe she
would have thrown it in my face, so I shook
hands with her, which seemed to please
her. She is no common girl that, and
will make a splendid little wife to some
fellow some day, as I am sure she is good
too. I told her how it was I was forced to
get into Mary's garden, and she promised
to explain ; but she said i it didn't much
matter — most women liked being trampled
on one way or another — except in their
dress ? '

I wish you could run down for a bit.
It's awfully dull, particularly at night.
There is not a book in the house except one
called ' Crab Robinson ' — a new cookery

•/

book, I think, but I have not looked into
it — and a big old Bible with pictures in it.

I have taken to reading that, and you can't

think how interesting it is. I don't think

I ever read the Bible seriously before.

My dear mother was too anxious about me,

and I had religion and all that so pumped

into me when I was young, that I got

disgusted with it ; and that, I believe, is

the great reason why some fellows almost

hate the sight of the Bible. That fellow

St. Paul was a splendid fellow ! — only read

the Acts of the Apostles ! How I should

like to have heard him preach ; and what

a general he would have made ; and he was

such an awfully kind fellow, too ! And

then Ruth ! Jacob was rather an ass " (did

our hero mean Rachel ?) ; ** but it is very

interesting to read about him and how he

was done in his love affairs. I am sure

Mary is religious, and she would think mea

dreadful heathen if she knew all, but I
vol. ii. 23

must coach up a little. Besides, I begin
to lake it now. I don't think I should
make a bad parson, after all, if I was
properly crammed for it. Mary is too
good for me, I feel that, and I mean to try
and be more worthy of her. Don't shout !
Wait till you are in love, old fellow, with
a real, good, sincere-minded girl that's not
all kites and ready-made sweets to every
fellow, but one who you are sure means
what she says and is not acting being nice
which only makes a fellow feel small
when he sees it's the same to everybody.
Ah ! how good I will be to Mary if she
ever belongs to me ! I will guard her like
some tender and beautiful morning flower
that would close at a breath of cold wind !
Don't say, now, I have written you a doleful
letter. It is only thinking of Mary that
makes me so sad. There is not another

girl like her in the whole world ; and I
fear my luck is not good enough ever to
get her ! What do you advise now ? It is
all very well for you to say, ' See her ! ' but
I can't get near her; if I do, she won't stay.
I feel very small, dodging about here like
an escaped convict. I can't say I much like
it — but, as you say, all is fair in love and
war.

"Ever yours,

F. W.
"P.S.- That reminds me of one thing I
have forgotten to mention. As I was creeping
round the outside wall the other night,
I distinctly heard some one fire off a gun
or a pistol out of one of the windows of
the house. That must be the ghost of the
murderer Mrs. Crippin told me about. He
shot his own son out of the window, and
still goes on firing out of the window at

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

night, she says, when anything is going to
happen. How can Mary live in such a
dreadful old place ! I wonder what is
going to happen ? '

Spill ett, after the events related, found
her young mistress in great agitation and
excitement, and her habitual gentleness
and tranquillity were turned to restless and
conflicting emotion. She was angry, she
was pleased, she was alarmed and yet
hopeful at such constancy and love ; and
she was sad at the thought of her lover's
departure for the Continent.

But it is no use your being angry with
him, ma'am. The idea of a man being
afraid of anything or stopping at anything
if he really cares for you ! I think it is
very nice of him, giving up his pipe and
his armchair, and coming out and standing

in the cold just for the chance of getting
a sight of you, and worshipping an old
stone wall because you are on the other
side of it — and only think of his jumping
over your wall like that ! I like a man to
be big and strong. I shouldn't much mind
being carried off by a giant into his castle,
if he wasn't ugly and didn't mean to eat
one. I would rather have that than a
poor polished-to-death creature, who thinks
of nothing but being ' correct,' and what
other people will say about him — and
afraid of you into the bargain ! "

I shall tell my grandfather, Spilled. I
will not deceive him again for anything,"
said Mary seriously.

Don't think of such a thing, ma'am !
Do you want to have all the men fighting
each other — or, what's worse, appearing
before the magistrates, and the whole

affair in the papers ? The Colonel would
never consent then, you may be quite sure ;
there wouldn't be a chance for you ! You
didn't invite him to come ; and I don't see
that you have done anything to confess.
If you want to be courageous, you had
much better stick up to the Colonel again,
and make him consent. He will, if you goon
long enough. There isn't a man living
can beat a woman if she will only stick to
her point. Men are stronger than we are
in many ways, but they can't stick on to a
thing as we do. You see a man can knock
another man on the head if he holds on
too fast, but they aren't do that with us ;
and that's our little privilege that a woman
should never lose sight of, and I am sure
a man gets tired of saying no much sooner
than a woman does."

Mary had all the keen dread of a public

scandal, which belongs to a sensitive highbred
race, and Spilled's arguments prevailed
; she even decided to make another
attempt to gain her grandfather's consent.

And the queen, Miss Mary ? We must
go down and see what your giant has been
trampling on ; but he is a fine-built young
gentleman, I must say, if he doesn't get
too stout some day. I should like to have
seen him, though, floundering about therein
the dark in your garden ! "

The two young women lighted a lantern
and went down into the garden. Mary's
first care was to see that the door was
again bolted, and she got a hammer and
drove in two nails for further security.
Great was her astonishment when she saw
the wrecked state of the house she had
built for her goat. The rats in the cage
had disappeared altogether, but old Poacher

seemed to have escaped death, though his
cage was crushed in over his head, as if
a giant indeed had been trampling about
there. Spilled laughed with her clear
voice, and said, " men were very like cattle
when they hadn't got a woman to prick
them up and to remind them of what they
were about."

During their absence a little event of
importance to our heroine occurred upstairs.
The ghost of Mr. Gregoo appeared to the
King of Zanzibar.

The monkey had been struggling on.
With Harrison's skilful assistance and his
own native vigour he had been making
a resolute fight with death ; and if he
could only have been transported suddenly
to his native island for a little visit of ten
days or a fortnight, he would have probably
recovered all but his lost eye. He had,

however, been still confined to Mary's bedroom.
Between this room and the sitting-room
were double doors, seldom used in
the winter — Mary passing out into the
little hall and entering her bedroom by
another door. In the agitation and excitement
of the events just recorded, Mary had
left her bedroom door open, and Spilled
the door of the sitting-room. The king,
comfortably installed in his house, quickly
spied the open door. Such a tempting
prospect of adventure was not to be resisted,
and he soon managed to undo the door of
his house and spring to the ground. He
first jumped into Mary's bed, and pulling
out her pillow threw it off on to the floor ;
he then crept under the bedclothes, but
finding the sheets too cold, he came out
again and sprang from the bed to the toilet-table
; after he had upset everything there,

and tasted a pot of cold cream, some of
which he rubbed on his face, he jumped
down again and made for the door. It
was not long before he found his way into
the sitting-room, attracted by the light of
the fire.

After the windows were closed in the
evening, Solomon always relapsed into
silent contemplation — whether of a self-educational
or retrospective nature no one
could say ; it could only be observed that
he was very still and solemn, and did not
go to sleep.

The king gambolled into the room, his
tail in the air, delighted with his freedom
and change, and such a prospect of mischief
all to himself; but Solomon's fine ear soon
detected an unusual sound. " Naughty
bird ! ' he exclaimed, with an exact, imitation
of Spilled, much after the manner of
Mr. Gregoo.

The king sat for a few seconds in the
middle of the room, with his hands in the
air transfixed with terror and astonishment.
There was the same cage in the same place,
and the same bird with the same voice.
He gave a sharp shriek like the rasping of
hard iron, and, flying out of the door, he
returned to Mary's room and hid himself
under the bed.

Mary, when she entered her room to
dress for dinner, at once perceived who
had been at work there. The monkey's
house was empty, but where could he be ?
After a search, he was discovered under
the bed in the far corner, crouching against
the wall and trembling violently. She
and Spilled got him out, and placed him
again in his house, but he only shrieked
piteously, and tried to hide himself under
the straw. Mary was certain he was very

ill again ; and the unfortunate Harrison
was summoned in haste as he was attending
to his preparations for dinner. He
thought that the monkey had only caught
a fresh chill by going out into the passages,
and treated him accordingly ; being too
much in haste to consider the matter very
closely.

The Colonel that night at dinner was
unusually cheerful. The clock went well —
remarkably well ; he had been giving a
final touch to it that morning, but he did
not descant with his usual fulness of detail
on the exact nature of the engineering
difficulties he had encountered and overcome,
although his granddaughter forced
herself to give her accustomed attention
to his narrative, having a genius that way
herself. Then, Lady Grandison having
accepted the Coppice Wood, he had had

the delightful occupation of riding over
there to see about the necessary repairs,
and Mary learnt for the first time the
remarkably contumacious character of a
lead roof, that was no sooner repaired in
one place than it persisted in leaking in
another, and how truly wonderful were the
insatiable demands of an old house for
repairs when once you began. Even the
very coal-cellar wanted a new brick floor
and two coats of whitewash. But he had
given orders to spare no expense, and the
place was to be made as cheerful as if it
were "for a young married couple." The
drawing-room was to be white and gold —
Tumber declared it must be that, " if it was
to look bridal." Miss Doddingstead thought
it would have been better if it had remained
oak as it was before — the Colonel thought
the same ; but that fellow Tumber was as

obstinate as a Yorkshireman about it. He
said oak colour was only fit for gentlemen
who hunted and filled the room
with tobacco smoke, and ladies liked
things to look as different from men's as
possible — something that will go with
their dresses.

Tumber has got a very pretty wife,
for I have seen her," said the Colonel; "and
I dare say he knows all about it, so I did
not interfere very much. Men who marry
pretty women learn many things — I have
long observed that."

Yes, indeed," said his daughter ; " they
learn to be kept in order, and that they
are not the only men in the world ! '

11 Well done, Augusta ! said the
Colonel, looking at her with great astonishment.


Mary bent down over her plate to hide a

smile. She knew where this third-hand
wisdom came from.

I hear from Harrison Lady Gentlebird
has settled to take Mrs. Walker back again.
But why did she part with her ? ' he said,
when the servants had left the room.

It was the other servants, Jenkins
thinks," said Miss Doddingstead. " She
will be a great loss to us ; you can't think
how clean she has made everything, and
how well she has kept Harrison and
Spilled in their places."

Umph ! " said the Colonel. " You had
better let Harrison find some one for himself
this time — he is a clever fellow, and is
a much better judge of the matter than weare.



I know who Harrison wants to make
housekeeper," said his daughter, " and that
is Jenny Spilled. But she is much too

young — it is absurd! And Jenkins says she
would not stay to be under her. I think
Jenkins would make a good housekeeper ;
she says she can take care of me just the
same."

Ridiculous ! " said the Colonel. " She
has no more brains than a stuffed goose,
and if she does not like it, let her go. I
don't see why Jenny Spilled should not do
very well. I rather like the idea ; it will
please her father immensely, — and the
Spilletts are not common people, you must
remember. If she does not quarrel with
Harrison, she will hold her own well
enough, young as she is."

But Spilled's father is always interfering,
and Jenkins says he is much too
thick with Mr. Croucher to be quite
honest," said Miss Doddingstead.

There never was such a good honest

fellow as Spilled, and I don't believe a
word of it," said the Colonel hotly ; " and
his daughter is like him, though she has
got a tongue of her own — but that cuts
both ways when you come to keeping
others in order. What do you say, Mary ?
Could she look after you as well ? '

Oh yes, grandpa ; I need very little
waiting on. I should be very pleased
indeed ! "

Miss Doddingstead still offered a feeble
opposition, which only made the Colonel
more determined to promote Spilled.

I will talk to Harrison about it," he
said ; and the ladies retired.

Miss Doddingstead went off to the

drawing-room for her accustomed nap, and

Mary waited in the hall with a beating

heart until she thought the great pipe

had been lighted and its soothing effects
vol. n. 24

allowed to operate. She then opened the
door gently, a little to the surprise of the
Colonel, which was increased still more
when she knelt down on the ground near
him and put her hands on his knees. He
first wondered if the monkey had got lost
again, or if it was something about Spilled,
but her face looked so grave and earnest, he
began to fear it was " that fellow " again.

"Dear grandpa, you won't be angry
with me ! ' she said, looking up into his
face beseechingly, " but there is something
I must tell you."

Well, my dear," he said very gravely.

Captain Wyldeman is staying at the
Little Sack, and he is going abroad fora
long time, and he entreats me to w
him once more before he goes, to say
good-bye."

The Colonel had so much confidence in

Mary's truth and prudence, that he did not
press her to know how she obtained this
information.

What business has he to be coming
down here, after you have intimated my
wishes to him ? It is most indelicate and
forward, and I am surprised that Hunting-croft
should encourage him, after what
passed between us on the subject ! ' He
looked down at her with a darkening face.

But, grandpa, he says he shall go out
of his mind if you do not give your consent! '

What does that matter to me ? He
should have thought of that before."

But he could not help being fond of
me directly he saw me, he says ; and we
ought never to have been allowed to see
each other if it was so wrong his liking
me." Tears began to come in her eyes.

The Colonel again swore inwardly at

his own indiscretion. "My dear, my dear,"
he said kindly, putting his hand on her
head, " it cannot be, indeed, it cannot be ! '

But, grandpa, I shall never, never
be happy again, for I do care for him so ! '

Old Shot now came and joined the
group, putting his head on the Colonel's
knee and also looking up at him with
pleading eyes, which, however, had a
tinge of jealousy in them rather than
advocacy.

My dear child, that is all nonsense ! If
he had not come down here and planted
himself near you, you would have got over
it — as you will now, when he is gone."

No, no, grandpa t — never, never ! I
have tried very hard to forget him " —
her tears and sobs came thick — " but — but
it is always the same. I can never care for
any one else now ! "

Stuff and nonsense, Mary ! " said the
Colonel, starting up from his chair and
knocking the big pipe to the ground, more
angry with himself than with her, and cut
to the heart by her earnest distress. "You
talk like a schoolgirl ! Why you are barely
eighteen ! '

Oh ! don't be hard on me, dear grand-papa
! ' she said, trying to get hold again
of his knees.

It cannot be ! it cannot be ! ' he exclaimed,
endeavouring to break away from

her.

If poor papa had only been alive ! "
said Mary in her desperation, still clinging
to him.

This stung the Colonel very deeply. He
had often reflected if her parents had been
alive, would this have happened, and how
would they have acted under the circumstances?

He would have given hie right
hand at that moment to have been able to
conquer his repugnance to the match, and
a feather would have turned the scale.

Mary divined the trembling of the
balance ; but alas, for inexperience and
candour in a great political crisis ! she
made a fatal mistake. " I am sure you
would like him — they say he is not the
least like Sir John, and that he is not so
bad as you think ! "

This brought back all the Colonel's recollections
of the man whom he knew well
to be little better than a scoundrel, and
was irritating also as throwing a doubt on
his judgment and justice ; the meddling
of others, also, in a matter on which he
allowed no one to interfere, roused his
combativeness.

I tell you, Mary, it is quite impossible.

quite impossible ! ' he said, beating the air
with his hands, and dragging her on her
knees across the room to the door as she
clung to him ! "I forbid you to have any
further communication with him ! '

Breaking from her, he got out into the
hall, and went straight to his own room
and locked the door. Mary retreated
slowly upstairs, with her face between her
hands, and with bitter sobs declared " she
would never ask him anything again ! "

Half an hour afterwards the Colonel
stole out and fetched his pipe, and remained
smoking in his room until an advanced
hour of the night. Neither he nor Mary
appeared at prayers, and Harrison was
much perplexed to know what could have
happened.

Had he and Miss Mary been having
a serious to do at last over the clock and

the monkey ? She was a regular Nodding
gentle as she was ; and, as Jenny
Spilled says, ' what can you expect from
game fowl but fighting ? ' "

CHAPTER IV.

CRACKSKULL COMMON AND THE FOUR-cross
Watery

had a restless and tearful night,
which ended in a deep sleep, in which she
dreamt that she was in the midst of a
great crowd. At a short distance her
grandfather and Captain Wyldeman were
talking to each other, but the crowd was
so thick she could not get through it to
speak to them. In an agony, she tried to
call out, but could not utter a sound —
when she awoke, and found Spilled opening
the shutters of her window. Her

sweet face looked very mournful as it lay
on the pillow, bedded in the masses of her
glowing hair, which curled like serpents
around her, and her rich dark eyes, in the
half-light of the dimity curtained bed, had
that deep sadness which appeals to the
strong and good with the subtle charm
that lies about misfortune. Spilled had
a fine expression as she glanced at her
young mistress.

Mary did not seem disposed to enter
into conversation. She and Spilled had
exhausted the night before all that was to
be said for the moment on the present
situation. There seemed nothing but a
dead wall of despair before her, with little
hope of ever passing it. " She would
never see him or hear his cheerful voice
again." At length she said gently —

"I think I'll have some tea, Spilled. I

shall not get up just yet. I don't want
anything to eat ; but before you go, just
look at the king and see how he is."

Before going to bed on the previous
night she had peeped into his house, and
he seemed quietly asleep, curled up in a
corner with his head buried between his
hands.

Oh, Miss Mary ! " exclaimed Spilled, as
she opened the door of the monkey's house
and put in her hand, " he is quite cold —
and I think he's dead ! "

Mary sprang out of bed, her pink feet
flying over the carpet. Alas ! there could
be no doubt about it, her little friend, who
of late had been of more value than ever
to her, had gone to join the spirits of his
happy isle. With all his faults and his
one great crime, he had been a most
amusing little fellow, ever quaint and

original, with a droll perversity that was
constant element of cheerfulness and fun in
the somewhat dull old Manor, and he had
been associated with some of the happiest
years of her girlhood ; for is it not those
persons and animals who have the most
character to whom we attach ourselves the
most warmly, even though they have great
faults, ay, or it may be worse ?

Mary took him out in her arms, and
Harrison was summoned from his breakfast,
Spilled carrying the king out for him
to see. He said there was nothing to be
done, and he thought he had been dead
for many hours. The king was placed
again in his house, and a new handkerchief
was spread tenderly over him. Mary then
got into bed again, drew the clothes over
her head, and sobbed like a child at this
accumulation of misfortune.

When Spilled brought np the tea, she
was greatly moved with compassion, and
she resolved in her heart, " that if she
died for it, Miss Mary should marry
Captain Wyldeman yet ! "

Never mind, Miss Mary," she said ;
Captain Wyldeman isn't dead ! and I
think he looks pretty tough. I don't think
that even love will kill him — though, for
the matter of that, I don't believe that
there was ever a man or woman either who
died really of love yet, though it's nice and
romantic for people who write love stories
to try to make us think so. Things are
not worse than they were ; in fact, better, I
think. You may be sure you have driven
it in more home to the Colonel. He isn't
a man, if it's only for the sake of peace and
comfort, if he doesn't turn round some fine
morning and say, ' Oh, take your man and

go to the devil, and do what you like with
him ' — you'll see ! '

Mary shook her head sadly, with a faint
smile ; but she felt a little cheered, though
somewhat shocked, by Spilled's confident
irreverence.

Come, Miss Mary ! that's not the way
to take trouble, lying in bed like a sick hen
over eggs that won't hatch. You had
much better get up and come down in the
garden with fine and bury the king. It's
no use keeping him up here and moping
over him. It is not like a child — it's only
a monkey, after all. Mr. Harrison says he
ought to be buried in a four-cross way, ashe
committed suicide, or hung in chains
on Grackskull Common, for a murderer
and robber. Where's Crackskull Common,
Miss Mary ? I never heard of it near
here."

What do you mean, Spilled ? ' said
Mary, rousing herself, and taking the cup
of tea out of her hand.

I mean," said Spilled deliberately,
trying to provoke Mary's combativeness,
he must be buried in the middle of the
garden, where the four paths meet, and he
must have no coffin, and he must have a
sharp stake driven through him, because
he first committed murder and then he
poisoned himself."

That I certainly won't have, Spilled !
He must be buried by the side of Mr.
Gregoo." And she proceeded to eat a slice
of bread and butter which Spilled had
brought up contrary to orders.

That won't do, Miss Mary. It will
bring poor Mr. Gregoo out of his grave !
No, he belongs to the bad spirits amongst
monkeys that answers to our devil, and it

would be quite wicked of us to try and
stop his going where all bad monkeys
ought to go to. Do you think creatures
like that, who are nearly as intelligent as
we are, haven't a future ? I believe that
all animals have sot something that
answers to our soul. When they die there
is something goes out of them all of a
sudden, that is quite different from their
bodies, that's evident — where does that goto
? I see no more reason to suppose that
dies, than what goes out of us. Besides,
they have got power to know when they
are doing right and when they are doing
wrong ; why isn't that intended to prepare
them for another world just like ourselves ?
Who knows ? You may be riding your
mare in heaven yet, some day; only instead
of four heirs she'll have a lot of wines f "
Don't talk nonsense, Spilled," said

Mary quietly, her combativeness too

crushed for the present to be easily roused,

though she could not help being amused at

Spilled's theories. " Even supposing what

you say is true, how can anything we do

to the body touch the spirit that has flown

away ? "

I am not so sure of that, Miss Mary.

Spirits are governed by laws, I expect,

much more like what they have been

accustomed to in real life than we suppose;

and before they admit a new spirit, they

look back to see how he stood at his death

for one thing, just as we should at the

certificate of a man's character who has

been discharged. I have often thought,

when I read the papers, that coroners cheat

in a way they will have to answer finely

for some day."

I think I will get up now, Spilled,"
vol. ii. 25

said Mary, feeling decidedly more cheerful
after her tea. The theological philosopher
then proceeded to prepare her mistress's
bath.

I shall not let you have it quite cold
this morning, Miss Mary ; I don't believe
in cold water in winter. It's only those
who have got a skin like a Newcastle
navvy's that can warm up again properly,
and those who feel things very much have
not got that. I don't think Satan himself
could stand a cold bath down here in Kenton
a winter morning — he's too clever ; it's
only stupid people who have got their
brains in their stomach can do that.

Spilled, you are out of your mind this

morning ! '

Spilled laughed and departed to finish
her breakfast, which was still waiting for
her downstairs, for running a way from

which she was secretly despised by Jenkins,
who thought she didn't know what was
due to herself and the rules of service — an
important article of which, being literally
translated, was as follows, " The sacred
hour of meal-time shall not be encroached
upon ; should your master or mistress, for
instance, be so inconsiderate as to take to
dying at that inconvenient hour, it is
better they should be left to grow cold than
your tea and toast." Jenkins however
had forgotten her own abject submission
at the time of Miss Doddingstead's bad
colds and consequent exacting temper.

When Spilled returned from her breakfast,
she said, " Mr. Harrison says he shall
send his nephew Tom over to Antwerp to
get you another monkey, Miss Mary ; he
has got the man's address, as he was over
at Deal again last summer."

"It's very kind of him," said Mary ; "but
I shall never care for another."

That's nonsense, ma'am ! Monkeys are
like men — one is much the same as another,
when you are obliged to have them about
you ; it all depends upon what you can
make of them — and that's interesting, and
sharpens up one's wits."

Mary smiled, but thought that Jenny's
tongue was running away with her ; and
she then proceeded to find something that
would do as a coffin for the king.

Spilled having succeeded in her object
of " stirring Miss Mary up a bit out of her
dumps," did not persist any further in her
notions of justice in the matter of coroners'
law. " The monkey was just as much of
an unsound mind as the rest of them."

A very pretty cedar box lined with rose
coloured silk, in which a doll had once

come from Amsterdam having been found,
the little king was deposited therein,
carefully covered by one of Mary's lace
pocket-handkerchiefs, with her cipher in the
corner worked by herself; Spilled slipping
in, when Mary's back was turned, one of
the red feathers out of Mr. Grrego's tail,
u to keep him quiet in his grave."

The two young women then went down
into the garden, Mary carrying the box
reverently with both hands. After much
discussion, it was decided an entirely new
graveyard should be formed in the opposite
corner to the one in which Mr. Gregoo was
laid. The king was deposited at a good
depth, and a little mound was formed over
him in the shape of a grave.

"If I was the Pope or the Archbishop
of Canterbury, Miss Mary, I should give
out a funeral service for animals ; there is

something wrong that a creature with such
cleverness and intelligence as that should
he buried like a stone. I am sure there are
many dogs, now, that have got more goodness
in them than half the Christians
going — and without their wicked
too. Do you think God intended that
all that goodness should go for nothing
and end here ? I don't, Miss Mary."

I don't think it matters much how
we are buried, Spilled ; the ancients had
one way, you know, and we have another.
It's just a matter of custom and love and
respect to those who are gone. But you
forget, animals don't think anything about
that. They don't grieve over another's
death as we do."

Hut dogs do, Miss Mary, over a master
that's dead, just as much as his own relations,
and often much more. I have seen

that — and I often wonder you don't have
a dog."

I suppose you think, then, my relations
won't grieve for me ! But these matters
are all settled for us, Jenny, by wiser heads
than ours."

I am not so sure of that, Miss Mary ;
though we are only babes and sucklings,
there is good authority for thinking they
see the truth more simply and naturally
like than those who have got their heads
choked up with too much brains like proud
flesh."

The interment of the king having been
accomplished, Spilled set Mary to work to
restore the goat's house, pulling the wreck
to pieces much more than was necessary,
to give her plenty of occupation," and
they went on sawing and hammering all
the morning.

CHAPTER Y.

THE VISIT TO PARIS.

When Mary met her grandfather at dinner
that evening, he was very kind and cheerful,
and he astonished his womankind by
talking a great deal about Paris, as he
remembered it in his young days, and
then about Brighton. Finally, when the
servants left the room, he opened his budget
of news. He first told Mary she might
inform Spilled she was to be the new
housekeeper. He had arranged it all with
Harrison. Eliza, who was clever, and had
been well trained by his wife, was to behead

cook, with a seat in the cabinet council
of the housekeeper's room ; Ruth was to
be kitchen-maid, and a new scullery-maid
was to be found. Miss Doddingstead was
too accustomed to be overruled to make
any further resistance — her chief thought
in the matter was, " would Jenkins really
go?

Then the Colonel, after a few ahems, came
to some really startling news. He had
decided to take them at once to either
Brighton or Paris. Which did they think
the best ? He should start in a day or
two ?

Mary could not utter a word. Miss
Doddingstead thought Brighton would bethe
best, " the shops were so nice to look
at."

So they are in Paris," said the Colonel.
Yes, Paris will be the best, after all ; we

will decide on Paris. "But when can you
be ready ? "

Miss Doddingstead thought a week at
least would be necessary.

Nonsense ! " said the Colonel ; " people
never take much luggage when they go
abroad. You want another pair of boots
and a little change, that's all. Let me
see, to-day is Thursday ; we will start on
Monday, then. That's a famous allowance
of time for packing, I am sure. What do
you say, Mary ? "

When you like, grandpa," said Mary
faintly.

We will only take one maid," said the
Colonel. " You can take that maid of yours,
if you like, Augusta — that will be a little
sop for her ; but I won't be bothered with
two maids. They only quarrel, and one
has to be sent home. I well remember that

happening. I did rather think of taking
Harrison," he continued, " he has not had
a holiday for a long time ; but I am afraid
the house won't get on without him now
poor Mrs. Harrison is gone. That is the
worst of Spilled being so young. I suppose
I shall have to take John."

I am sure Spilled will manage very
well, grandpa. It will do poor Harrison
a great deal of good. Spilled's father
might come into the house."

True, my dear, I never thought of
that. Very good ; then we'll take Harrison."
And the ladies retired to carry the
great news to their respective maids.

The Colonel was dumb with astonishment
the following morning, when Mrs.
Spilled, the new housekeeper at Whitepatch
Manor, marched demurely into prayers at
the head of the household. Having

little knowledge of theatrical matters,
he had never realized the extraordinary
transformation that dress and deportment
can make in one and the same person.
Spilled appeared in a close-fitting black
silk dress, which no one at the Manor had
ever seen before. She had altered the
usual style of dressing her hair ; her
rebellious locks were smoothed down into
correct propriety, and rose up behind ina
most imposing and dignified arrangement
fastened with a goodly comb, which
must have belonged to her grandmother,
and she wore a plain gold brooch, which
contained a miniature of her great great
grandmother — whom no doubt, judging
from the miniature, she strongly resembled.
A small gold watch and chain completed
her dress. But she looked prettier than
ever, for the black was very becoming to

her brilliant complexion and hair, and her
somewhat full figure looked neat and round
in its tight-fitting dark dress ; in short,
the dress suited her ; and one saw at a
glance her native superiority to the
other servants. The Colonel was so
fascinated with his own creation that, ashe
knelt at the table in his accustomed
place near the fire, with the servants ina
long row before him, he could hardly
keep his eyes off Spilled's back as he
read out the morning prayer. Jenkins
did not appear. She had not yet made up
her mind to walk behind " that dressed
up doll."

Spilled entered on her business with
remarkable aptitude for the business in
hand, and as she did not alter her manner
to the other servants, the appointment was
on the whole accepted, as her father was

much liked and respected by every one,
and there had been a dread of having
Mrs. Jenkins and her tale-bearing '
placed over them. The honour which the
Colonel had conferred on her, however, did
not alter her determination " to get to windward
of the old gentleman in the matter of
Miss Mary if she could." In pursuance of
a plan she had in her head, she determined
to go over to Canterbury in the afternoon
of that day, to see Mrs. Sherlock, who had
formerly been maid to Mary's mother. Slit-had
remained with Mary until the arrival
of Miss Van Tromp, when she married her
cousin Sherlock, who held a good situation
in a Canterbury brewery, and had a nice
little house in a walled garden of his own,
about a mile from the town on the road
to Ickham. Having no children. Mr.-.
Sherlock generally took in as a lodger one

of the curates of the district, but at this
moment her pleasant rooms were vacant.
When Spilled arrived at the station, she
sent a mysterious note by one of the porters,
and then proceeded to Canterbury to find
Mrs. Sherlock. She, however, returned to
the Manor in time for prayers. Jenkins
was still absent.

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. SPILLETT IS CAUGHT IN HER OWN TRAP.

On the following morning another catastrophe
happened to our heroine. But
what are heroines for except to suffer
many things ; everything, in fact, short
of being hung by the neck ? But such is
the desperate state of affairs in the way of
finding a novelty, before long a heroine
will probably arrive even at that very last
misfortune. Perhaps some one more able
than the present writer to make extremes
meet may take the hint. It might be
made into an excellent picture of the

dismal and dreadful school, given the
necessity to paint it. A charming and
beautiful young woman, falsely accused,
pleads guilty to screen her lover, the real
culprit, and is condemned to go through
the ceremony mentioned above — the pitiable
hound, her lover, who won't come
forward to save her, drinking and gossipping
in the Royal Tar round the corner —
the heroism of the heroine, who holds out
to the last moment in her silent self-sacrifice.
A damp, raw, foggy, suicidal
November morning at the hour of eight.
A dreadful bell tolls with a dismal heart-sinking
tone that does the highest credit
to the artist who designed it for its position.
The black flag ready to be hoisted
may here be brought in with much effect.
Two pages and a half of sad and gloomy

description of the interior of Newgate,
vol. ii. 26

with aesthetic and sparkling allusions to
that great artist and popular hero of the
gibbet, Jack Sheppard, to break up the
monotony of the deep shadows. There is
no one present to witness this crowning
act of her sublime affection and constancy
but a few grim old married wardens and
officials and a poor middle-aged clergyman,
on whom the beauty of her fine form is
entirely lost, as in the stillness of death
she is suspended for a few moments between
the cold earth and the far, far sky
to which her noble spirit has fled.

"There is a letter for you, Mrs Spilled,"
said Harrison, as he threw one down on
the breakfast-table in the housekeeper's
room, and then departed to lay the rest on
the hall table before the Colonel came
down.

Spilled opened the letter, and took out

another that was enclosed, which she
hastily thrust into her pocket, to avoid the
inquisitive eye of Jenkins, who silently
entered to get her breakfast. As soon as
she had finished her meal, Spilled caught
up some work from the sofa of state — now
her rightful property if she chose to claim
it — and started off for her young mistress's
room. The Colonel had a great objection
to the servants passing through the hall to
go to Mary's rooms, but Spilled always
went that way if she could, partly from
perversity, and partly because it was a
short cut, so she went that way now.
The Colonel had had a restless night.
He was unhappy about " his child," notwithstanding
his faith in Paris, and had
come down earlier than usual to carry his
restlessness into the garden. Spilled no
sooner got into the hall than she heard the

Colonel's well-known step on the stairs,
when she flew through the hall and shot
up the east stairs without being seen.

The Colonel had the great happiness of
having little anxiety about his correspondence,
and although he insisted on his
letters being on the hall table when he
came down, he rarely ever looked at them
until after breakfast. " Stow that away
comfortably, and you are fit for anything,"
was his theory and practice. So, without
stopping to examine them, he put on his hat,
and taking up his stick went towards the
hall door. Then he suddenly turned back
and went to the drawing-room to fetch a
pamphlet on the treatment of vines, he had
been reading the evening before, to give
to the gardener. On the mat, at the foot
of the east stairs, was a letter — a white,
sharply defined object on the dark rug.

He stooped and picked it up. It was in a
man's big handwriting, addressed to Mary,
and sealed with the crest of a hawk and
the letters F. W. underneath. He recognised
the crest immediately, and with the
initials there could be no doubt from
whom it came. With fierce indignation
he hurried off to his own room and locked
the door. " Was he justified in opening
it ? " Certainly ; Mary was a minor and he
was responsible for her. Besides, she was
deceiving him after all, and corresponding
with this fellow — and he tore the letter
open without further hesitation, too angry
to consider whether it would not have
been better to give her the letter and trust
to her truthfulness for an explanation.

The Little Sack, Friday, 4.30.
I have just heard that you start for
Paris on Monday ; I well know what that

means. You are to be kept away until you
have learnt to forget me. Mary ! if you
still love me as I do you, you will come
and meet me for a few moments in the
park tomorrow. I will go to that big
avenue which runs up from the road to the
house. No one will see me, I shall keep
behind the trees until you come. I shall
go early, and remain all day until you
come. You cannot refuse me now, we may
never meet again. Your grandfather is
quite wrong. He is simply ridiculous, and
most unjust and wicked to separate us now,
after we have been allowed to meet and care
for each other. But I will never change
to you, and I entreat you to come and
meet me tomorrow. If you don't come, I
shall not know what to think. I only
know I would see all my relations anywhere

first before I would give you up. I shall

go early,

In great haste,

"F. W.

I can think of nothing but your dear
face as you stood on the stairs in your
garden ; but how cruel you were to me ! '

The Colonel's wrath burnt with all the
fire of outraged dignity and authority,
fanned by an undercurrent of self-condemnation.
He flung his hat and stick on the
table, and walked about the room crushing
the letter in his hand. Then, with the
necessity for immediate action belonging
to a fiery nature, he rang his bell violently.
His first impulse was to order his horse
and go over at once to the Little Sack and
horsewhip " this impudent cub of Satan ; '

but when Harrison, who had come himself
on hearing this most unusual summons,
arrived at the door and found it locked,
the act of having to go to the door and
unlock it, brought him to a sense of the
irreparable scandal he was on the point of
letting loose, and the wrong of handing
over Mary's good name to the merciless
tongue of the wicked world. Any private
suffering of outrage was better than
that ! So he ordered Harrison to bring his
breakfast into his room, and to tell Miss
Doddingstead to read prayers, as he was
busy.

Harrison saw the Colonel's letters still
lying on the hall table, and he had a short
time before seen Spilled with a strange lookin
her face, rushing about and inquiring
if any one had picked up a letter, and the
truth flashed upon him at once that it was

something to do with Miss Mary. He had
been much puzzled on the return from the
visit to Gloucestershire, by the letters
which Spilled received in a gentleman's
handwriting, and he observed to his wife,
that " Jenny Spilled must have picked up
a very smart follower down there, but
he hoped it was all right" — meaning to
keep an eye on her, and give her father a
hint, as " those letters, he was pretty sure,
didn't come from any one in her position."
The correspondence ceasing, however — as
it was his habit to always receive the
letters when they arrived — he let the
matter pass. But here was another letter
in the same handwriting, which he did not
doubt Spilled had dropped, and the Colonel
had found, and there was a look of trouble
in the Colonel's face that wasn't there for
Spilled. " That letter was for Miss Mary !

and he should have it out with young
Madam Jenny directly."

Spilled had not told Mary of the lost
letter. She was firmly convinced that
Nancy had picked it up, and kept it back
to spite her, as she had found her dusting
in the hall when she went down again to
look for it, and she still hoped to obtain
its possession, although Nancy had stoutly
denied having seen anything of it.

Mary wondered much that her grandfather
did not appear, but Miss Nodding
was certain " he was making his will,
and sorting his papers ; he always did
before he went away for any time.

John, when he took the Colonel's breakfast,
received orders that " the Colonel
would be glad to see Miss Mary in his
room for a moment after breakfast.

I told you so, Mary ; it's something

about the property," said her aunt. " But
I don't want him to think too much about
me, mind. You must keep up the family
and marry. I should do very well with
just enough. If anything should ever
happen to your grandfather, I should like
to go and live at Brighton, its more cheerful
than Dover ; just a nice little house, is
all I want, and then you and your husband
could come over and see me — and perhaps
bring the children. But you must not call
any of them Augusta. It's an ugly name,
and we have had quite enough of it in the
family.

But I am sure I should, dear Aunt
Augusta, to remember you," said Mary,
colouring, embarrassed, and amused at this
future cut out for her, and touched by the
real goodness that lay at the bottom of this
half-developed character.

"Well, don't be too particular. That is
the fault I made ; and I am sorry for it
now. A woman is best married, after all.
It brings trouble, I know, but it's something
to live for. But when you come of age, and
get your mother's fortune, you must not
forget that men are greedy after money."

Mary went to her grandfather's room
with much doubt. She did not believe it
was anything about the property. He
would not consult her about matters of that
kind, as he never did any one ; and she
knocked at his door with some agitation.

Come in ! " said the Colonel with sternness
in his voice, and Mary entered.

lie was still walking about the room with
his hands behind his back, and a mixture
of pain and anger in his face. He turned
upon her at once.

What do you mean, young madam, by

disobeying my orders, and keeping up an
intercourse with this fellow ? I flattered
myself that I could trust you, and that
you had too much respect for me and for
yourself, after what I had expressed on the
subject — but I find I have been utterly
deceived."

u But, grandpa ! I have neither seen
nor written to Captain Wyldeman since I
spoke to you the other evening ! "

But I have got his impudent familiar
letter, which he sent to you this morning,
here in my pocket," said the Colonel,
putting his hand mechanically on the breast
of his coat. " How could he have known
so quickly that we are going to Paris on
Monday, if you had not written or sent him
word ? I gave strict orders to Harrison
that it was not to be mentioned out of the
house."

Indeed, grandpa, I never wrote to
him, nor sent him any message about it."

Bat, then, how did he come to know
it ? "

Mary said faintly, " she did not know*'

Then, perhaps, you can't tell me either
how this fellow's letter got into the house
this morning, or how you came to have
assignations with him in your garden ? '

Mary was silent. She would not betray
Spilled, and her good sense told her it was
better her grandfather should be angry and
unjust with her, than have a real cause of
complaint against her lover.

Exactly what I thought." said the
Colonel. " You are pretending to be very
meek and submissive, and all the time
deceiving me. Mary! I would never have
believed that a child of my race could have
been guilty of such conduct."

Grandpa, you are most unjust I '
said Mary, beginning to lose patience, and
some of the fire of her " race ' coming
into her eyes.

Precisely," said the Colonel, taking the
word as referring to his refusal to accept
her lover. "That is the exact word applied
to me by this impudent pushing fellow in
his letter to you this morning," and his
eyes glowed fiercely under his dark brows.
He has neither the feelings nor the conduct
of a gentleman to take advantage of a girl
of your age to force himself upon her
family. I will never believe he is one whit
more honourable, in reality, than the rest
of his disreputable relations. He is quite
unworthy of you, and the sooner you forget
him the better."

Grandpa," said Mary, her eyes and
brows having a strange miniature resemblance

to her grandfather at this moment,
you are most wicked to say so ! He is as
good and honourable as you are. I will
not hear a word against him, and I will
never marry any one else as long as I
live ! "

She clenched her hands and stood to her
full height before him.

Go to your room, miss! You forget who
you are speaking to. ' Wicked ! ' that is
another of his fine terms this fellow has
taught you to apply to me. I order you
not to leave the house nor send any letter
out of it, or I will shut you up in a
convent ; and if that whelp of a bad kennel
comes near the place again, I will have him
thrashed off by the stable men ! '

You need not trouble yourself about
that, grandpa ; he is much too considerate
for my feelings to come here when he thinks

he is not wanted ! ' ' said Mary, with a look
of defiance and with generous pride in her
lover.

"Considerate! why he is waiting for you
in the beech avenue now at this moment !
If it were not for the regard I have for
my own name and yours, I would go out
and horsewhip him on the spot ! '

The Colonel looked so terrible, that poor
Mary turned and fled to her room, with
anger and despair and a crushing sense of
injustice at her heart.

vol. ii. 27

CHAPTER VII.

THE COLONEL ENTERS A YOUNG LADY ? S Bedroom
AT A HIGHLY IMPROPER HOUR.

That afternoon Miss Doddingstead was
alone in the drawing-room at half-past five,
with the tea-table before her, making superhuman
efforts to understand Carlyle
"French Revolution," the only book about
Paris she could find in the house.

It's worse than Bradshaw," she thought
as she gave it up, and poured herself out
some tea.

The Colonel had been out riding: all the
day. He had many matters to attend to
before he left home, but he had given

special orders to Harrison before going out,
one of which was to pack his summer
things. Mary had not appeared at
luncheon.

Have you seen Miss Mary, ma'am ? '
said Spilled, coming into the drawing-room
as Miss Doddingstead was finishing her
second cup of tea, and speaking with the
most natural air possible. " I want to
know if her fur cloak is to be packed, or
if she will take it with her ? "

Oh, she will take it with her I should
think, Spilled. No, I have not seen her.
Why ? "

Because she has not come into her rooms
since luncheon, ma'am."

What's that you say ? " said the Colonel,
entering to search for the unusual solace of
a cup of tea.

Miss Mary has not come into her rooms

since luncheon, sir," said Spilled, looking
him steadily in the face.

The devil ! " said the Colonel, glancing
very sharply at her, then checking himself.
She must be in the house somewhere."

No, sir, no one has seen her," said Spilled
without flinching.

The Colonel was taken very much aback,
and he glanced again at Spilled, who stood
her ground with an air of delightful
innocence.

But where did she go ? ' said the
Colonel.

I didn't ask, sir. Do you think she
has gone over to the Rectory, ma'am ? " she
said, turning to Miss Doddingstead to
escape the Colonel's eye. This artful bait
took, and the idea was immediately seized.

11 Very likely," thought the Colonel.
That fellow Maxstead has always spoilt

her, and she has gone over to him with this
miserable story." "Send over at once and
see if she is there, and say I wish her to
return home immediately," he said, his
wrath again rising.

Spilled escaped with almost too great
precipitancy. There was a little want of
finish sometimes about this great artist.
(This was the fault of her short fingers,
which went straight to the object, and
troubled themselves less about the smaller
matters.)

John soon returned from the Rectory.
Miss Mary had not been seen there."

The Colonel was aghast.

Had she gone off with that fellow after
all ? ' " Go up yourself, Augusta, and see,"
he said ; " perhaps she is in her garden."

Her father seemed so strange in his
manner, that even Miss Doddingstead was

moved, and wondered if Mary and her
grandfather had had a disagreement about
the will. She set off at once for Mary's
rooms, thinking as she went up the stairs
that money was hateful, it only led to
quarrels ; but Mary shouldn't be so strong-headed
about things — her grandfather
knew best."

She had not gone very far before the
Colonel overtook her — his anxiety was too
great to allow him to remain in a state of
inaction. He felt in his heart at that
moment, if he could only find her safely at
home, he could forgive her everything,
almost to letting her have her own way
about " this fellow."

They found Spilled in Mary's room,
tranquilly packing her things, but there
was no sight of Mary herself.

"Is she down in lier garden?' asked
he Colonel.

I don't think so, sir," answered Spilled.
But the Colonel was determined to see for
himself.

Go away, you old fool ! Whoop ! '
cried Solomon, not forgetting his customary
salutation to a departing guest,
as the Colonel and his daughter left the
room.

The Colonel winced ; " but she might
keep a kangaroo, if he could only find her
safely at home."

Spilled opened the door at the top of
the stairs, and lighted them down the
steps. Miss Doddingstead stopped halfway,
it being too dark to gratify her
curiosity about the animals. The Colonel
went to the bottom and shouted " Mary ! '
Then he called out to Spilled to get a
lantern, " she might have fainted, or anything."
Spilled soon returned with Mary's

lantern, and lighted the Colonel round the
garden.

Miss Doddingstead descended also, and
looked about her at the cages and the goat-house,
and all the other strange possessions
of her niece. But nothing of their owner
was to be seen.

The Colonel returned upstairs. His face
was white and looked so terrible, that
Spilled, for the first time in her life, was
a little afraid of him.

Has she taken anything with her,
Spilled ? ' he said, looking at her with
suspicion.

No, sir, not that I know of, except her
hat with the little red feather, and her
jacket that she wears every day — I don't
see them anywhere. Perhaps she has
gone to some of the cottages, to say goodbye
to her poor people."

Spilled was determined to end this close
inquisition as soon as possible ; the Colonel
seemed to be much sharper than she gave
him credit for.

"Very likely," said the Colonel, hope
again reviving, " I never thought of that ;
they keep her talking by the hour sometimes.
She will be in soon, I dare say ; '
and he went downstairs with his daughter,
trying to console himself with the thought
that she was too sensible after all to commit
the wild act he had feared.

Seven o'clock, however, arrived, but
there were no signs of Mary, and the
Colonel was terribly uneasy. John was
sent off again to see if she was at any of
the cottages. Dinner was put off, and
then a short time afterwards was ordered
again to come in. The Colonel had not
dressed himself as usual, and could remain

nowhere for more than a few minute
together. John did not return until after
eight.

He had been round to all the cottages
as far as the new ones at Hampstead, but
Miss Mary hadn't been to any of them
since last Monday."

The Colonel's barometer again went
down to heavy storm.

Order the brougham," he said, " and
tell Mr. Spilled to drive."

He had eaten very little dinner, but
drank more wine than Harrison had ever
seen him do in his life before.

Not a word did he Bay to his daughter
on what he suspected, nor where he was
going, so that she at last began to get
anxious also; but she dare not question
him.

"Mr. Spilled had gone over to see Mr.

Croucher about the straw, and had the key
of the harness-room in his pocket, but
William had been sent to look for him."

That infernal straw ! " muttered the
Colonel.

There was always a difficulty and a
rumpus about straw at the Manor. Apparently
it was the most precious commodity
on the face of the earth, to judge from
its extreme scarcity and the fight there
was to obtain a sufficient supply. It was
some time after nine before the brougham
arrived at the door. Spilled had left Mr.
Croucher's, and had gone on somewhere
else to beg and coax for a little of the
precious straw.

Straight on ! " said the Colonel, as he
got into the brougham without any further
directions.

Mr. Spilled was lost in astonishment at

this late expedition. The Colonel never
went to a ball, and if he had been going
to one now he would have taken Miss
Mary. At last he decided it must be some
magistrate affair, and he whipped up his
horses with decision. It might be someone
dying.

The Little Sack ! ' said the Colonel,
putting his head out of the window when
they arrived at a crossing.

As they drove along his reflections were
very bitter. They burnt inwardly on himself
and also flew outwards in rage towards
that " impudent scoundrel." He severely
blamed his own want of judgment and
self-command in having disclosed that her
lover was waiting for her. He did not
doubt she had stolen out to meet him, and
had been persuaded to elope on the spot.
The Little Sack had an evil reputation for

affairs of gallantry. A respectable girl
even had been carried off from her friends
not long since, and concealed there under
their nose while they were hunting far
afield. This fellow might have taken the
hint. At any rate, he should discover if
he had gone off also. If he did not find
Mary there, he did not doubt he should
find a trace of some kind.

Mr. Spilled thought something must
have happened to Captain Huntingcroft.
He must have had an accident in the field.
He had heard that he rode at everything,
as if he didn't value his neck a horseshoe
; but he was an uncommon nice young-gentleman
of the right good old sort, who
had a pleasant word for everybody without
fear of being thought small of on that
account — very different from some of the
the other sort who thought it the correct

thing to be stiff and stuck up, and he
should be very sorry if it was anything
serious. But he wondered he had not
heard of his being down there again ; and
he spun the brougham along through the
narrow roads at such a pace that the
Colonel, although he liked fast driving at
all times, and particularly in his present
mood, and always had the " best horses
about," wondered, amongst his other
troubles, if that fellow Croucher, who was
too fond of his bottle, was leading Spilled
into following his example. But Mr. Spilled
was a first-rate whip, who could trust
to the quickness of his eye and hand in
almost any emergency, and they dashed up
safely at last to the garden gate of the
Little Sack.

The Colonel got out and entered the
garden which surrounded the house. All

was in darkness, and not a sign of life was
to be seen anywhere. He then knocked at
the door, waited, and knocked again, much
louder ; but still no answer. Then he
stepped back and looked up at the windows.
Then he attacked the knocker vigorously
again and waited a moment. At last a
window opened over his head, and a
woman's voice called out sharply, " Who's
there ? "

Is that you, Mrs. Crippin ? I wish to
come in. I am Colonel Doddingstead."

But I am in bed, sir ! "

Never mind your being in bed. Comedown
directly ; I wish to speak to you."

Colonel Doddingstead was not a person
to be denied, even by Mrs. Crippin the
redoubtable, so she slammed to the casement,
and at length appeared with a light,
as the Colonel was beginning to knock

again. He had not reflected that half a
dozen lovers might have escaped in the
time. In his eager honesty he thought of
nothing but getting into the house.

Where is Captain Wyldeman ? ' he
said.

He went away all of a hurry, sir, this
evening, and took most of his things."

Was any one with him ? "

Not that I know of, sir."

Are you sure he is not in the house ? '

Mrs. Crippin thought the Colonel was
out of his senses, to come there at this
time of night and talk like that ; and she
remained silent.

I must come in, Mrs. Crippin, and see
for myself."

Well I never ! ' said this embodiment
of sour obstinacy that only another native
of East Kent had any chance of getting

the better of; and she held her place in the
door without moving an inch.

Do you hear what I say, Mrs. Crippin ?
I wish to enter and see for myself. You
forget that I am a magistrate."

Mrs. Crippin had never had any practise
in stiffening her back against a magistrate,
and she was taken at a disadvantage.

Well, sir," she said, after considering a
moment, " it's not for me to say no to my
betters, and I suppose you must do as you
please." And she ungraciously allowed
him to pass, observing, " But you'll find
no one."

Show me a light, Mrs. Crippin," said
the Colonel. And he proceeded to open the
door of the room to the left, which he
knew was the sitting-room, gun-room, card-room,
and smoking-room, of the sporting

gentlemen who took the Little Sack.
vol. ii. 28

Mrs. Crippin followed him with surly
submission. There was no one in the
gun-room, and the fire was out. The
Colonel then crossed over to the little
dining-room on the other side. That was
empty also, and had no signs of immediate
occupation. " I must go upstairs," said
the Colonel ; and he went into the two bedrooms
and dressing-room, which were over
the rooms below. They were empty, nor
did the beds look disturbed, though in
one of the rooms some heavy boots and
gentleman's things still remained.

The Colonel began to think Mary had
certainly not been brought there ; but ashe
knew that lovers were artful, and that
a young lady had been successfully concealed
there before, he was determined to
see every corner of the house. His determination
was also heightened by opposition

; as Mrs. Crippin lighted him about
with extreme unwillingness, and with an
air as if she grudged every fraction of a
farthing of the cost of the candle she was
burning for his benefit. He then proceeded
to the door of a room at the back. This
was Mrs. Crippin's own bower, and she
endeavoured to resist his entering ; but he
bid her stand back and went into the room,
followed by his unwilling hostess. There
could be no doubt about that room. Those
gowns hanging up against the wall could
belong to no other human being but Mrs.
Crippin herself. He then proceeded to the
door opposite. Here she opposed her
sturdy square figure, and declared it was
quite impossible he could enter there. It
was her niece, Mary Tumber's room ; and
she was in bed. But the Colonel had an
advantage over his adversary, as his

obstinacy had the additional quality — not
often found with pure obstinacy, so often
confounded with determination — of a fine
imperious temper ; and he ordered her to
stand on one side in such a tone that she
instinctively obeyed. He then knocked at
the door. Receiving no answer, he knocked
again, and then entered in time to see
Miss Tumber springing into bed. Mrs.
Crippin followed him in, and he was able
to assure himself that the round red face
staring at him over the sheets was not
that of Miss Mary Doddingstead. There
was another room at the back, which the
Colonel also looked into ; but it contained
nothing but boxes and tins, apples, onions,
and ropes, and a petticoat hung up to
dry.

The Colonel went downstairs and examined
the kitchen and back premises, and

then the large stables and coach house, the
loft, and men's rooms on the other side
of the yard. Then he walked round the
house, remembering the hiding-places at the
Manor, to assure himself that the structure
outside corresponded with that within.
He returned again to the house, and proceeded
to question Mrs. Crippin, who
began to be alarmed lest " that fine-looking
young gentleman ' had been doing something
very wrong, to have a magistrate
come searching like that for him in the
middle of the night ; and she became more
subdued and even communicative, hoping
to hear something in return.

He had been out all day nearly, and
then he came in all of a hurry, and sent
for Mr. Trigg's fly, and had gone to Merton
station ; and it was as much as she and
Mary Tumber could do to pack his things

together in time ; and he left no orders,
and said he would write ; and she hoped
nothing was wrong, as he seemed a real
nice gentleman, and never made a fuss
about his eating like the others, and he
was always "

The Colonel cut short this testimonial to
our hero's domestic virtues, and, making a
brief apology in his grandest manner for
having been obliged to " disturb her and
Miss Tumber at such an unseasonable
hour," he went back to the carriage, and
ordered the wondering Mr. Spilled to
drive to Merton station.

It is a matter of mild surprise sometimes
to outsiders, to find on arriving at a small
country station an entire change of officials
they are no doubt " promoted," but from
whence are those " promoted," who take
their place ? This is what happened to the

Colonel, who seldom used the Merton
station.

The Colonel at first could find no one.
After a time he unearthed a porter asleep
with a pipe in his mouth, in a species of
lamp-room, and then the station master
was brought out — a patient and forbearing
being, like most of our station masters
to the credit of that sorely tried race be
it said.

The Colonel made himself known ;
which did not, however, produce any
marked impression on the localized
official mind.

At 5.25 there was an up train, and at
5.32 there was a down train," he said.
Both stopped at Merton. On Saturday
nights there were many passengers going
and coming both ways."

Neither the porter nor the stationmaster

had noticed any one in particular,
except Mr. Brown of the Dairy Maid and
Rising Sun, and Mr. Peartree of Stepped
Grange, who had gone to Canterbury ; but
the station master thought it was a young
gentleman and lady i who took firsts for
town ; and there was one gentleman who
took first for Canterbury, besides Mr. Pear-tree,
and one lady — he remembered that,
as he seldom had more than one or two
firsts, and often not that. Had the young
lady a red feather in her hat ? He didn't
notice.

The porter said, " There was a young
lady with a red feather in her hat ; and he
thought it might have been her who got
into the train for Canterbury, but he
wasn't quite certain, as the two trains
came in nearly together, and he had to
look sharp."

The Colonel was in an agony with this
conflicting evidence. He did not doubt
they had gone from here, but which way ?
He decided it must be the young couple
who had taken first-class tickets for
London.

When is the next train for town ? " he
said.

There is no train for London to-night,
sir; the last went at 9. 15," said the
station master. " And there is no train
before eight tomorrow — it's Sunday.
There is a train for Canterbury at 11.5,
but you won't get on from there to-night,
sir.

The Colonel saw there was nothing to
be done but to return home. He first
thought he would drive to town, but it
was of no use arriving in the middle of the
night. He did so little travelling, it never

occurred to hin to telegraph to Canterbury
for a special, or he would certainly have
done so. He got into the brougham and
ordered Spilled to drive home.

CHAPTER VIII.

OUR OLD Friend THE DETECTIVE.

The honest old Colonel had a very bad
night. In steering quietly what he
thought was the usual course, he had shipwrecked
all his happiness by not keeping
a good look out ahead, and in losing his
self-command at the moment of supreme
danger. The bell of Don Carlos reminded
him again and again through the wakeful
night of the happiness and self-respect that
had gone in one crash. He had been so
fond and proud of Mary, who resembled in
beauty and sweetness of disposition his
early lost wife, to whose memory he had

ever been faithful. He would gladly join
her now, could he go back again over the
last few months of his life. When he rose,
as he did early, he looked ten years older
than he had done on the previous morning.

Breakfast and the carriage had been
ordered over night in time for the early
train to town. Harrison himself came to
know if he meant to return the same day.
The Colonel could not say ; but Harrison
had better have some things put up. The
latter, after glancing at his master, said
quietly —

Would you like me to go with you,
sir?

The Colonel thought, " Certainly not, he
could manage perfectly by himself."

Harrison persisted quietly. " They
could do very well without him for a short
time, and he had been thinking of asking

for leave to go to town and see his nephew,
who was a sergeant in the police, and
stationed at Scotland Yard."

The Colonel seized the idea. Harrison
was a clever fellow, and discreet, and he
would take him into his confidence — glad
of something definite to steer for in his
restless voyage of discovery.

Yery well, then," he said, and Harrison
departed to give John orders, and attend
to his own affairs ; but before the Colonel
came down to breakfast he put a few drops
of ignatia into the bottom of his tea cup.
He then had a hasty conference with
Spilled, and declared he would not have
the Colonel killed for any one, and insisted
on certain orders he gave being carried out
if they did not return the same day —
giving her the address of the hotel the
Colonel always went to in Jermyn Street.

The Colonel and Harrison soon started,
and in due course of time were on their
way to town. Whether it was the marvellous
effects of the ignatia, said by the
disciples of homoeopathy to be so wonderful
in its rapid effects on mental distress accompanied
by self-mortification, or whether
it was the distraction of a cheerful and
talkative acquaintance in the train, the
Colonel certainly looked more himself
when they arrived at Victoria. Harrison
thought it was the former, and that, with
the aid of his little bottles he should pull
him safely through even this great trial.
But Harrison was an enthusiast.

On arriving in Jermyn Street, the
Colonel briefly told Harrison the circumstances
of Mary's "unfortunate attachment
and its lamentable consequences," and that
he had ascertained they had come to town

together the evening before, and that he
must go at once and find a detective to
trace them from their arrival. Harrison
said, with the Colonel's permission, he
would go and find his nephew at Scotland
Yard, and ascertain the proper steps to betaken
to get one. The Colonel assented,
and in the mean time he would try to find
Captain Huntingcroft, and see if he knew
where they were. So he started in a
hansom for that purpose.

On arriving at the barracks, the Colonel
sent up his card to the Hon. Dick, who was
comfortably at breakfast in his rooms.

Wyldeman's done it, I'll bet a pony ! '
he said, getting up in haste. " But why the
devil didn't he give me notice ? I shan't
know what to say ! ' He gave orders for
the Colonel to be admitted, and rushed
into his bedroom to put on a proper coat.

Are you aware of what has happened,
Captain Huntingcroft ? ' said the Colonel,
coming in with a hasty step. " That
fellow — that friend of yours — has eloped
with my granddaughter ! '

Impossible ! " said the Hon. Dick, with
an air of innocent astonishment.

But I tell you it is a fact. They came
to town together last night. Have you
heard anything of them ? *

Nothing whatever, Colonel," said the
Hon. Dick, with a look of great concern.
Won't you sit down ? — I suppose you have
had breakfast V And then he began to feel
rather sorry for the distress of the old man.

But have you no idea where they are
likely to have gone ? '

Positively none — unless they are gone
to Paris'

11 1 think, Captain Huntingcroft, you are

not altogether without blame in this
matter ; and I call upon you to assist me
to find them at once."

They must be married now, Colonel
Doddingstead — if they are not married by
this time already."

The Colonel looked very blank, and sat
down. He had felt this must be the final
result, if Mary's good name was to be
saved.

You may be quite sure that Wyldeman
will do everything that is right, and that
her honour is perfectly safe in his hands."

Honour, indeed — to steal away a child
of her age ! "

But then, don't you think, Colonel, they

ought not to have been allowed to come

together, if you had such an objection to

the match ? He is a gentleman, and a

good fellow, and will have a good property.
vol. ii. 29

You must pardon me if I say I think you
are not quite just to him."

Captain Huntingcroft, I have already
expressed to you my insuperable objection
to this marriage ; and we will not, I think,
discuss that any further."

The Hon. Dick remained silent.

Why did you allow him to have the
Little Sack ? " said the Colonel, feeling a
necessity of attacking somebody.

Wyldeman is one of my oldest friends,
Colonel. We were at Eton together, and
he was so desperately gone on your granddaughter,
I could hardly refuse him.
Besides, I expressed to you openly my
sympathy with the marriage."

It would have been much better, sir,
if you had not interfered in the matter at
all. But we are wasting time; the question
is, will you help me to find them ? '

With all my heart, Colonel Nodding
if I can ; but I have little more idea
where they are gone than you have."

You mentioned Paris. What makes
you think they may be gone there ? '

Because Wyldeman has an uncle living
there who swears by him ; and I shouldn't
be surprised if he has taken her to his
house. But don't you think, now the thing
is done — don't you think, sir, it would be
better to wait until you hear from them ? '

I must assure myself that they are
properly married — if it must be. I must
confess I have not the same confidence in
the man that you have."

The Hon. Dick reflected a moment. " It
would be better to let the old man work
off his steam by hunting for them ; he
couldn't do any harm now."

I will telegraph, if you like, to his

uncle. I know him very well, and have
stayed in his house. He will tell me if he
is there, I think, if I say ' important.'
He knows we are sworn friends, and they
won't know I have seen you. If they are
gone there they would have taken the
mail last night. Let me see," he said,
taking up Bradshaw. Yes, they could doit
easily, I think. What time did you say
they left ? "

Between five and six," said the Colonel.

Yes, that's it. By changing at Canterbury,
they might have caught the night
mail which leaves Dover at 10.5, and they
would be comfortably there by this time.
I will telegraph at once. But it's that
confounded Sunday ! We may have a
bother."

The Colonel assented, though he was
convinced in his own mind they came to

town last night ; and it was agreed he
should go back to his hotel and wait until
he heard from the Hon. Dick.

On arriving, he found Harrison waiting
for him with a quiet and even mild-looking
individual, with none of the received
outward signs of either courage, strength,
or great intelligence. He might have been
a respectable butler out of place, a city
clerk, or even a country solicitor of small
practice. This was the famous detective,
Sergeant Johnson, more dreaded by the
profession ' than all the other detectives
put together. With a very few questions,
he obtained the information he wanted.
But the Colonel could give no description
of our hero, as he had never seen him.
His father was dark and tall — he would
probably be dark also, id they could have
had no luggage.

Sergeant Johnson said that was no
indication at a town station.

At least the lady had none, but the
gentleman had," said the Colonel.

That was a very distinct intimation, the
sergeant thought. He smiled a little at
the small red feather.

The Colonel had a brilliant idea ; he
might get a photograph of TVyldeman
from his friend. The sergeant said photographs,
unless they were taken specially
for the force, with the hands shown, were
very deceptive. He had found they had
as often led him astray as not, except it
was hunting any one down at cL
quarters, when yo had time to study
their face. Porters md cabman weren't to
be trusted a bit to go by a photograph.
What he wanted was a precise description
— tall or short, dark or fair, or any

particularity of dress and manner. But it
was more difficult to fix young gentlemen
than any one — they all looked at first sight
as if they had the same tailor and the
same hatter.

The Colonel said he would send a note
at once to Captain Huntingcroft. Sergeant
Johnson said he would go meanwhile to
Victoria and London Bridge. The lady
having no luggage was almost enough for
him. Porters were very sharp in noticing
luggage, much more than they did the
people it belonged to — and a young lady's
luggage was very different from a gentleman's.
But Sunday was a bad day, as half
the porters were away.

The Colonel then wrote a note to the
Hon. Dick, and sent it by Harrison, and
Sergeant Johnson went off to Victoria.

The Colonel walked up and down the

room with short turns, very much like the
bear at the Zoological Gardens, and in
much the same humour. The Sunday
before Mary was seated quietly by his
side.

Who would have dreamt of such a
thing happening ! He would see they
were properly married, and so forth ; but
he would never see her again. She had
grossly deceived him, she had acted like
an intriguing maid - servant ! It was
lamentable ! lamentable ! And he had
thought her so truthful and high-principled,
and with such a right sense of her
position. But it was all the fault of that
impudent scoundrel — he had bewitched
her. What was to be expected of the
son of such a father ? He had been only
too right in opposing the marriage."

At length the Hon. Dick arrived. He

had received a telegram from Paris ; it
contained the simple word "No."

The Colonel was now more convinced
than ever they were in London, and as he
shared the popular delusion of the superhuman
faculties of a detective, he did not
doubt they would soon be found.

Harrison had arrived some time since,
with a description of our hero as given by
his admiring friend, which the Colonel had
read with astonishment, it was so unlike
the idea he had formed of him — " Very tall
and well made, with broad shoulders,
bright blue eyes, fair hair and long
moustache, fresh healthy complexion, with
a particularly honest and open expression,
and a cheery voice and manner ; quietly
but well dressed, and a rather quick way
of walking."

Sergeant Johnson now appeared again.

He had found no trace of the fugitives
either at Victoria or London Bridge ; and
he must wait until tomorrow, when the
regular porters would be on duty. Neither
had the cabman given him any information
which he considered " close."

The Hon. Dick pitied the state of the
old Colonel, alone in an hotel, with nothing
to do but to think of his trouble. He
thought it would be much better for him
to return home.

No more can be done at present,
Colonel. Don't you think you had better
go back to AVhitepatch, and leave it to us ?
You might leave your man, he seems a
sharp fellow, and, to tell you the truth,
I would rather not have one of those
detective fellows continually after me at
the barracks. Besides, he 1 night go with
the detective to recognize your granddaughter,

if he thinks he has found them.
I assure you I will do everything I can,
and let you know at once."

But the Colonel declared he would not
return home until they were found.

But it is by no means certain they are
in town. They may have stopped on the
way, or perhaps are somewhere much
nearer home than you think. I am almost
certain, if Wyldeman had brought her to
town, I should have heard something from
him by this time. He knows I am on his
side. We might hunt for them here, you
know, and you might search about down
there. You may get a letter from her there
tomorrow morning."

The Colonel thought he might depend
upon Harrison, who he knew was devoted
to Mary, to see that she was really looked
for ; and then he might get a letter which

would be delayed if he remained ; so he
finally consented to return home and institute
inquiries in the neighbourhood, if
they were not found tomorrow in town,
and he had heard nothing from Mary.

The Hon. Dick accompanied the Colonel
to the station, Harrison mounting outside.
On the way the Colonel was silent for a
short time. Then he suddenly burst
out —

But there are no settlements ! and my
granddaughter will have a very good fortune
of her own when she comes of age,
which will be entirely at this fellow's
disposal."

Colonel Doddingstead, I will be answerable
for AVyldeinan that he will do everything
that is right and usual in these
matters, precisely as if he had married her
with your consent. He is a most liberal

fellow, and although he has much too small
an opinion of himself — which is really
about his only fault — he can put down his
foot when he is driven to it, and hold
his own with his father in a matter of this
kind. If you will allow me to say so,
Colonel, it will not be long before you come
round to my opinion that your charming
granddaughter will have a husband as
worthy of her as any fellow can be, and
that any one might be proud of — all the
women are after him, too ; and it is wonderful
that he has kept so straight. I am
afraid I should not have done so if I had
had his chances ! "

The Colonel was much comforted by
these assurances ; and more particularly by
the genuine manner of the Hon. Dick,
which carried conviction more than his
words ; and, with his loyal nature to those

who belonged to him, he began to feel even
disposed to take his new grandson-in-lav
part against any one who should object to
him. Harrison, before the Colonel got into
the train, begged him to have the kindness
to deliver a note he had written to Jenny
Spilled about something in the housekeeping
he had forgotten to tell her. The
Hon. Dick started at the name of Jenny
Spilled. The Colonel put the letter unsuspectingly
into his pocket, and said " he
would give it to her after prayers, — he

would not forget.

m

CHAPTER IX.

THE COLONEL FORGETS TO WIND UP DON

CARLOS.

The following day at Whitepatch passed
quietly. The Colonel, on his return the
evening before, had informed his daughter
of " the calamity which had occurred."
She had been lost in a sea of conjectures as
to what could have happened to Mary, but
had never once suspected the real truth ;
and further, she had been tormented by the
burning curiosity of Jenkins, who would
not be convinced that her mistress knew
nothing whatever about it."

After breakfast Miss Doddingstead constituted

herself an amateur detective, and
went up to Mary's room to see if she could
find a letter or anything that could throw
light on her whereabouts, secretly revelling
in the freedom of entrance to such a
forbidden ground. Jenkins would have
given up the luxury of abusing Spilled fora
whole month to accompany her ; but her
mistress was too much afraid of Spilled to
venture to take her. She found that young
person with a calm face seated at work in
Mary's sitting-room. She rose as Miss Dod-instead
entered, but there was a look of
mischief in her eyes as she turned to put
down her work.

Miss Doddingstead had been ordered by
her father to " hold her tongue and say
nothing for the present ; ' but he might as
well have shouted to the weather-cock over
Don Carlos to keep stationary.

It's very sad, Spilled," she said, in a
low confidential voice, as if Mary was lying
dangerously ill in the next room.

Dreadful, ma'am ! " said Spilled in the
same tone.

But where can she be gone, Spilled ? '

Perhaps she has had a quarrel with the
Colonel, and gone off to Lady Worthing-ham's
for a bit, ma'am. She is staying in
London now. Miss Mary had a letter from
her the other day."

It is not that, Spilled, I must tell you,
but you must not say a word to any one
about it — she has gone off with a gentleman
! " she said in a loud whisper.

I'll never believe that, ma'am ! '

But it's quite true. The Colonel knows
all about it. He knows the train they went
by, and he went to London yesterday to
find them, but he could hear nothing ; but

vol. ii. 30

they will soon be found, as the head of the
detectives is looking for them."

"I am sure it is some mistake, ma'am.
Miss Mary knows better than that, and you
will see."

Spilled's bold spirit enjoyed skimming
on the edge of a danger, particularly when
she had to encounter dull wits.

You don't know anything about it,
Spilled. He came here on Saturday.
and carried her off from the Beech
Avenue."

"If that's true, he is bolder than most
men, ma'am. But I would never have
believed any man in these days had spirit

enough in him for that.



Do you think she has left any letter or
anything by which we can find out where
she has gone ? '

I don't think so, ma'am."

Solomon was deeply silent. Miss
Doddingstead's whisperings were something
new, and he listened intently.

I should like to see," and Miss Nodding
proceeded to rummage.

She then went into the bedroom, but she
could find nothing but Mary's ordinary
correspondence, nor any place that seemed
locked up. After she had satisfied her
curiosity by an examination of all Mary's
effects, she said, " I think I will go and
have a look at the garden, Spilled ; " on
which this active young woman opened the
door at the top of the stairs.

After carefully examining everything
below, and being much disappointed at not
finding the rats, which Jenkins had assured
her were there somewhere, and thinking
it very shocking to put up a tombstone
like that over a parrot, she came upstairs

again, and went to her own room to write
to one or two of her friends.

But Spilled could not resist the temptation
when she was gone of dancing up to
Solomon every time she passed his cage,
and saying in Miss Doddingstead's voice,
She is gone off with a gentleman."

The Colonel passed the day anxiously,
every minute hoping to get a telegram.
He answered his business letters, scarcely
knowing what he was about, and committing
himself to accepting a terrible
radical as a tenant to one of his farms by
leaving out the word " not." Still no
telegram arrived. At length, as he was
sitting down to dinner, John, who,
having been left in command had assumed
an air of importance, handed him one with
extra state and ceremony, dimly conscious
there was a movement in the air which

required extra manners — a funeral was the
model which presented itself to John's
mind. The Colonel opened it in haste.

No trace has been found," was the brief
information it contained.

He handed it to his daughter, and continued
his dinner in silence, and nothing
more happened until evening prayers.
He then stayed up until after midnight in
his room, smoking the great pipe.

He passed in review Mary's life, her
birth, and the death of her mother immediately
afterwards — followed not long after
by the death of her father, who, having
little confidence in the wisdom of his sister,
had entreated his father to watch over his
little Mary. He thought of her earnest
activity as a child ; her affectionate and
sensitive disposition ; the first lesson he
had given her in riding, and her first fall

on the sands when her pony shied at a
sudden wave. Her passionate anger and
grief at being separated from her doll,
which was suspected of having mineral
poison in its beautiful complexion ; the
coming of Miss Yan Tromp and Mary's
obedience to her, and her quickness and
application in learning ; then her dangerous
illness, her quick recovery, and her rapid
growth into a young woman. He especially
remembered her charming appearance at
the ball, and the general admiration *she
had excited, — and it had all ended in this —
a runaway marriage, which, however, it
terminated, would loose the slippery tongue
of scandal never to be completely silenced,
even to the third or fourth generation !

At length he decided to go to bed, and
lit his candle. On going into the hall, the
great silence of the house suddenly reminded

him that he had forgotten to wind
up Don Carlos — Monday being the day for
that important event. He returned to his
room, and lighting a German silver lantern,
with a strong reflector, which he had had
in his possession for years, he proceeded to
the east stairs, which led to the clock tower.
It has been mentioned before that the doors
on this staircase were seldom closed ; and
the picture of Margaret Doddingstead at
the top could be seen when standing at the
bottom near the drawing-room door. On
arriving at the foot of the stairs, the Colonel
threw his light upwards, and proceeded to
mount. He had gone up only a few steps
when he saw something quickly descending
the upper flight. It paused an instant on
the middle landing, and he saw distinctly
for the first time the Maiden of the East
Stairs. She looked at him with a bright

smile, and then rapidly went up the side
stairs towards the door of the Quixote room.

He stood for a moment transfixed with
astonishment. Could it possibly be Mary
herself — it was her look and expression —
or was it the famous maiden he had so
often heard of from a boy ?

He mounted resolutely up the stairs to the
door of the Quixote room. It was locked
outside. He turned the key and looked in,
but there was nothing but the furniture,
and the solemn bed done up in brown
holland. He then tried the other doors,
but they were all locked, and he returned,
wondering* deeply.

He had never seen one of the ghosts in
the house before, and had always obstinately
refused to believe in them, though he had
acted about the one in the library as if he
did.

He returned to the hall, and blowing out
his lantern, he took up his candle and went
to bed, entirely forgetting his clock. He
thought over all he had heard of the history
and traditions of this maiden and her
appearances. His father and grandfather
had both seen her, as well as others. Do
what he would, it was impossible to quite
believe that every one could have the same
delusion and see the same thing. The
maiden, he was sure, was a good spirit ; she
brought harm to no one, and gave warning
of danger. But that one in the old dairy,
ah ! if there was any truth in it, that was
the spirit of a devil. It was well known
to his grandfather that Yan Goyen had
shot a man in cold blood whom he knew to
be innocent, to appear zealous to the government.
And that was why the smugglers
murdered him — and serve him right too !

He must search and see if his bones were
really in the chalk hole, they brought ill-luck
to the house. It was odd he should
have that too. No one else had skeletons.
And the one in the library! Ah ! he didn't
know ! But he had been wicked to punish
Mary for the bad deeds of her lover's
relatives, when his own family at one
time had been violent and doing everything
that was bad short of absolute
murder, and he was not sure even about
that. His grandfather told ugly stories of
what he had heard one night when lie had
had too much wine. It was that, perhaps,
after all, which had made him so keen about
the Wyldemans' misdoings, and nut real
honesty. He had been well punished. But
the maiden had smiled — that meant well ;
she had not smiled to his lather when his
sister Augusta was married, and that

«

marriage was bad enough for anything.
She had looked at his father in a way he
had remembered for long afterwards. No,

he felt happy about it now, Mary

And he went off to sleep, and dreamed that
Mary came to his bedside and put her hand
on him with her old happy smile, and that
he was lying in the Don Quixote room.

The Colonel had a good night, and
awoke much refreshed, and John's solemn
announcement that the clock had stopped
again was received with equanimity.

On the hall table he found a letter
addressed to him in Mary's handwriting,
with the Charing Cross postmark. He
opened it calmly. " Huntingcroft was
right ; it would all turn out as he said."
He felt resigned to make the best of what
could not be helped, and even to be content.
Women were such fools about marriage,

it might have been worse." There was no
date or address.

Dear Grandpa,

Do not be unhappy about meas
I am quite safe and well taken care of
by kind friends who will allow no harm to
come to me. I have not seen Captain
Wyldeman since I last saw you, nor do I
intend to see him, and you must not think
it is anything of that kind. But you have
hurt me so much by what you said about
him, and so long as you think like that —
which I can hardly believe you really
meant -I could not see you and be dutiful
to you as I ought ; and it would kill me to
feel again the terrible pain I had when we
last met. Indeed, dear grandpa, you do
him very great wrong, and it is not his fault
that he loves me so much. Why was I

allowed to see him every day for so long a
time, if he is so wicked and not a gentleman,
as you say ? But I do not believe it — I
never will. My own heart tells me he is
good and true, and it is a shame for the
world to make him answerable for his relations'
faults. I have given him my faithful
promise, and indeed, indeed, I will never
marry any one else now. I will not marry
him without your consent — that I feel would
be wrong and wicked, and I should never
expect to be truly happy if I did. I could
not before God promise to be obedient to
my husband with such disobedience to you
on my conscience. I have quite made up
my mind, if you do not love me enough to
give your consent, I shall become a Sister
of Mercy and live always amongst the
poor.

Thank you for all your goodness and

love to me. It almost breaks mv heart todo
this, but I feel that it must be so now,
and that it is for the best in the end ; but
forgive me, dearest grandpa, for all the
pain I have caused you.

Your still loving and dutiful granddaughter,


Mary Doddingstead.

Pes. Dearest grandpa, do not be uneasy
about me. I am quite safe and well
taken care of. I entreat you to give your
consent ; if you do not, I feel that I shall
never, never, be truly happy any more''

Again was the Colonel thrown violently
off his balance. He had made up his mind
to accept the marriage, but now his old
prejudice against it rebounded with new
force from the reaction.

Sister of Mercy, indeed ! That came of

her reading all those idiotic books, and
corresponding and sending money to those
busybody women who can never remain
quiet in their natural position, but must be
doing something to astonish the world and
torment their relations ! She must be
found at once and brought home. A childlike
that to be persuaded to give up her
rightful position in the world — and
to settle whom she will marry before
she had seen anything of life ! It was
monstrous ! She could marry whom she
pleased, with her beauty and fortune and
position — and to have the matter settled
offhand like this ! It was simply ridiculous
and absurd ! "

He did not give himself time to note the
firmness and plea for justice, or the tone of
steady deep feeling that was in her letter,
or the earnest appeal at the end. He took

in the leading facts only, and treated the
rest as girlish nonsense.

It was just a larger doll being taken
away from her over again. But she must
be found."

He put the letter into his pocket, and
went out into the garden to consider what
was to be done. She could not be with
Lady Worthingham, as he knew she was
only a short time in town on her way to
Nice, and must have started long before
this. He caught at the idea of the Sisters
of Mercy. Mary had been much interested
in a charming book published by one of these
ladies, and had written to the authoress
and sent her money for her work ; and
a correspondence had been carried on for a
short time which he had not at all approved
of, though there was nothing in it he could
object to reasonably. Was she gone to

this lady? He could remember neither
her names nor address. His daughter or
Jenny Spilled would know. He would
telegraph at once to Harrison to go there.
It was somewhere near London — he
remembered that ; and he entered for
prayers with anything but Christian feelings
in his heart towards those " busybody
women and their new-fangled notions of
justice and mercy."

After prayers, he informed his daughter
of what he had heard and his conjectures ;
but he kept the letter in his pocket. Miss
Doddingstead could not tell him the
address of the institution to which Mary
had sent money.

Of course not," muttered the Colonel.
Never mind, I'll find out for myself."

Immediately after breakfast he went
straight up to Mary's rooms. No one was

VOL. II. 31

there but Solomon, cracking seeds in his
cage. He soon found among her books
and pamphlets one with the address he
required, and he was writing it down on
a piece of paper when he heard a strange
whisper that sounded like his daughter's
voice. " She has gone off with a gentleman
! "

He started, and was more alarmed than
he had been by the apparition of the night
before. There was no one in the room.
Was this another ghost ? He became
quite nervous, expecting something to
appear, when his eyes fell upon the parrot.
Could it possibly be that ill-bred mountebank
? But where had he caught that
phrase so quickly ? That was certainly
Augusta's voice. She had been talking
then, and that sharp brute had heard her.
Never mind ! he should be more careful in

future. He was an idiot to suppose that
she could keep anything to herself. But
it was very annoying. The tale would
get about. He must make up his mind,
however, to the stories that Mary's folly
would set going, and he returned downstairs
and sent a telegram to Harrison.
He then went to wind up Hon Carlos,
frightening Miss Doddingstead by the
terrible look he cast on her when he met
her in the hall as she was returning from
a hasty confab with Jenkins.

In the course of the day the following
telegram arrived from Harrison. " Been
to institution mentioned ; nothing seen or
heard of person wanted. Sergeant Johnson
been to Dover ; no trace found."

The Colonel then sent another telegram.
All the institutions of the Sisters of
Mercy to be visited at once. Sergeant

Johnson to find out all there were in the
country, and go to them."

The Colonel, however, had had a severe
lesson. " He would do nothing harsh or
violent, not even use his lawful authority
to the utmost — but he would not have her
turned into a Sister of Mercy."

Before luncheon time it had been known,
as far as the stables and the Rectory, that
Miss Mary had become a nun.

John Spilled was greatly moved, but
said he did not believe a word of it, " lies
bred faster than rabbits." He tried to get
some real explanation from his daughter
of Mary's disappearance, as he was certain
she knew; but he was defeated by that
astute young person at every point. She
knew quite well he would regard the
matter from the parent point of view, and
was as likely as not to consider it his duty

to inform the Colonel, fond as lie was of
Mary.

The day passed and no fresh news of
any kind arrived. Then a week passed.
Telegrams and letters came, but no trace
of Mary could be found. Many religious
institutions had been visited by the indefatigable
Sergeant Johnson, and many
excellent ladies had been disturbed without
any results. Neither could anything
he heard of Captain Wyldeman.
The Hon. Dick had used every effort to
find him, and had written twice to the
Colonel on the subject. Sergeant Johnson
confided to Harrison that it was his opinion
she was hid away with her young gentleman
somewhere all the time, and that if
they could only get a clue to him they
would find her fast enough ; if not, it was
some friend who was hiding her up to

starve the old gentleman out. He had
wanted very much to go down to White-patch
himself, but the Colonel would not
hear of it. He regarded a detective u
something uncanny that was better kept
at a respectable distance.

Then he won't find her," said the
sergeant ; " it's nearly always like that with
people. They often treat one of us as if we
were spies or newspaper reporters, instead
of treating us as friends who want to help
them — as if it wasn't for our own credit's
sake ! I am getting very tired of the
whole business! They pretend to think
me too good to take me out of the active
line and promote me, though there are
others quite as good and better than I am.
I shall retire when I get the first chance.
If I could be down there for only a day or
so, I feel almost certain I could find her.

There is generally a little something if
you know where to look for it. I do half
my business by sitting down and thinking
about it, instead of rushing off here and
there to see. Sometimes it flashes upon
me in an instant, when perhaps I am only
thinking about finding a clean shirt ; but
that's what I call laying the train. Your
mind goes on working all the time without
any buckling up on your part."

Harrison recommended him to take
Pulsatilla ; he was too sensitive, and took
things too much to heart, and he offered
to give him some.

Sergeant Johnson examined the little
bottles with great curiosity. " He had
heard of homoeopathy. What was it ? '
Harrison said " it was using a needle
instead of the kitchen poker to go into
a very small place."

The sergeant, with all his genius, did not
seize the analogy.

You see," said Harrison, " we are made
much more delicately than any watch that
ever was turned out as a curiosity. AVell
now, if a watch is wrong you don't go and
set it to rights with a sledge hammer — you
use the most delicate tools you can get.
All that chemist and druggist business is
sledge hammering, and these little medicines
are fine tools so delicate that you
can't find or taste anything in them.'

But you don't mean to tell me they
can have any effect ? I should be sorry
to have my beer made in that fashion. I
like my beer to be pretty strong, and my
medicine too when I want it."

"No effect! " said the enthusiast, warming
up. " Look at that little bottle there —
that's got a most delicate medicine, made

from a serpent's poison, that will rouse
a man or an animal up at the point of
death. I have seen it myself. It's well
known to the experiment men — the big
fellows who really know, there is nothing
to be found in a serpent's poison, or tasted,
except a little gum ; and yet that will kill
a man in half a day. Do you mean to tell
me, sergeant, that any medicine that ever
was made can have less found in it than
that ? "

Sergeant Johnson was carried out of his
habitual depth. Those sort of principles
wouldn't go far in collaring a criminal, and
he did not continue the argument. Harrison
gave him some little globules screwed
up in a piece of paper, with instructions
how to take them. The sergeant put them
in his waistcoat pocket, but it is much to
be doubted if they ever went any further.

CHAPTER X.

THE HON. DICK IS TEMPTED BY FOUR-yearly
MUTTON.

The Colonel was in despair. He was quite
convinced, however, that some of those
Sisters of Mercy were concealing Mary
all the time ; and he gave orders that the
institutions should he watched, no matter
how many people were employed — particularly
the one he most suspected. They
must climb up somewhere and look into
the gardens ; Mary would never stay long
in a house without getting into the fresh
air wherever she was.

It was monstrous that women who

professed to be so good should do such
things; but they would put it under the
head of ' pious fraud,' he supposed. A
very convenient phrase, indeed, that could
be stretched to anything ! '

The Colonel wrote such doleful and
touching letters to the Hon. Dick, that that
amiable person was moved with compassion.
He would go down to the Little
Sack for a week, and cheer the good old
boy up a little. He informed the Colonel
of his intentions, and was at once invited
to come to the Manor, the Colonel saying
he could put up his horses, too, if he
liked.

The Hon. Dick reflected a moment, held
back by his habitual dread of being bored.
But no, the old Colonel, although he was
rather an oddity, was not a bore. He
would be left to amuse himself pretty

much as he liked ; and then he should be
very well " done " at Whitepatch in a good
old-fashioned way. That four-year-old
mutton was superb, and hardly to be got
anywhere except at his father's, and the
wine was just right (the Hon. Dick was
a good judge of wine, and had a delicate
stomach which suffered many things from
the ignorance of friends on this subtle
matter, and, as his father was extremely
rich, owning half a county of coal and
iron, he had always been able to " do himself
extremely well). Yes, he would
accept the invitation.

On the following day he arrived with
his man Finch, a very smart gentleman's
gentleman indeed, much more got up than
his master (who, for a Guardsman, cared
little about his dress), and a professional flirt
of the first water in his own society. The

Hon. Dick found himself very comfortable.
A saddle of that " delightful mutton ' in
prime condition appeared at dinner, and
the wine was even better than he thought
it was, on tasting it quietly again. He
shied rather at family prayers in the evening.
But it was nice and old-fashioned,
and seemed to go with the house ; still he
thought he should have to miss it in the
morning — " one didn't feel cheerful enough
at that time of day to be reminded of all
one's sins."

The housekeeper at the Manor did not
appear that evening.

The Hon. Dick found himself the next
morning in the dining-room before the
servants came in to prayers without exactly
meaning it. The young housekeeper
came in at the head of the servants, but
she had an unusually bright colour in her

face, and he stared at her earnestly as he
stood behind the Colonel. At breakfast
he said little for some time. The Colonel
talked politics, but as his guest was a
strong amateur Radical he held his tongue,
not wishing " to shock the old man."

Captain Huntingcroft was slightly but
well built, and rather above the middle
height; about thirty years of age; with
soft dark hair and small dark moustache ;
a small well-shaped head, not much developed
over the brows, but well developed
in the organs of comparison, benevolence,
and imagination ; he had handsome and
expressive dark gray eyes, a clear pale
brown complexion, and a very kind expression
free from conceit.

May I ask, Colonel," at length he said,
who was that young lady person who
came in at the head of the servants to

prayers ? She reminds me very much of
some one I have seen before."

Oh, that's Jenny Spilled, the housekeeper
— a wonderful girl for her age," said
the Colonel, going on to relate her history,
and the history of her family.

The Hon. Dick listened with great interest,
but was silent and thoughtful.
After breakfast, he said, " I think I shall
keep quiet this morning, Colonel, but 1
should like to go down into the little
garden with the high portico, and make
a sketch of that white goat if I may be
allowed — that is, if it is still here."

The Colonel, a little wondering, said,
Certainly, the goat was still there he
believed, but wouldn't he find it too
cold ? "

I am used to that," said his young
friend.

I will show you the way, then," he
said, " when you are ready."

No, please don't trouble yourself,
Colonel. I know the way. I have been
down there twice before with — when I
was here last time."

The Colonel sighed softly to himself,
and then presently said, " Very well, only
don't get a chill."

The Hon. Dick was an excellent amateur
artist of the sketchy first-impression order,
and could draw figures if not with great
correctness or much individuality, yet with
spirit, resemblance, and quickness. He
went for his drawing materials and his
cigar case, and putting on a warm greatcoat,
he started for the little garden, meeting
no one on the way. Although he was
strongly tempted to peep into Mary's room
as he passed, he refrained.

On getting down below he seated himself
a moment in the little summer-house,
and lighted a cigar. He thought about
Mary and what "a charmingly natural girl
she was." He could have been very fond
of her if there had been no one else in the
way ; but he had got over that now. He
was not such an ass as to go on thinking
about a girl who was turned inside out
about another fellow. Then he surveyed
the garden, and laughed as he thought of
his friend's adventures there. That was
the door by which he had escaped. By
Jove ! he would make a sketch of the
place. It would be great fun to show it to
them and chaff about it afterwards. And
the old brick walls, and the raised brick
doorway, and the lines of the garden, he
also thought, came very well. " He would
do it;" and he set to work. Then, as he

vol. ii. 32

was drawing away with that half-attention
so often given by those who have not to
earn their bread by it, he thought again
of the young housekeeper. " It must be
she or her sister, though she was much
changed in appearance. But there could
not be two Jenny Spilletts. Was it a
cousin. No ; it must be she. How very
odd ! How was it he had not seen her
when he was down here before or heard
her name ? '

There was a light active step over his
head. Some one came down the stairs
almost at a bound, and the subject of
his thoughts passed close before him.
Jenny ! then it is you ! " he said, starting
up and offering to shake hands with her.

Spilled had a bright sudden blush in
her face, but she did not shake hands with
him. " Yes, sir ; but didn't you know I

was living with Miss Mary now ? I never
thought to find you down here in the
garden."

Not an idea of it. She only talked
about you as her c maid Spilled ; ' but she
never called you Jenny, and I thought it
was a much older person."

Spilled laughed. " Perhaps it would
be much better for me, sir, if I was."

"No, you are charming as you are —
more charming than ever ! '

I thought, sir, you had promised never
to talk to me — in that way again. If you
do, I shall go away directly, and I want
to feed all the little animals."

The Hon. Dick put on an air of penitence.
" What a little prude you are ! I
want to hear how it was you left Madame
de Gros. Have you seen any of the other
girls since you left ? "

"Father didn't like my staying there
any longer, and I came to live with
Miss Mary soon after I saw you last,

sir.

I made inquiries for you, but they told
me you had gone into the country to get
married ; and I was quite jealous."

Captain Huntingcroft, you are forgetting
again ! '

But, Jenny, is it true ? Tell me who it
is ; " and he looked at her with earnestness.
I am going to feed the Queen of Sheba,
sir, and you had better go on with your
drawing ; but I don't know who gave you
leave to come down here," she said, as she
went off to the goat-house.

The Hon. Dick followed her. The sight
of the goat reminded him of his friend's
adventures.

Then it was you who met Wyldeman

in the lane ! ' he said, a new light breaking
in upon him.

Spilled coloured again, and stooped
down to arrange the goat's affairs.

But how is it, Jenny, I never saw you
when I was down here before ? '

Perhaps I didn't want to see you,
sir.

Oh, I should not have said anything."

Spilled was silent, and thought that
even the nicest of men were stupid.

But where do you think Miss Mary is
gone ?

I never think about it, sir. She will
come back again when she wants, I daresay."


Wyldeman is an idiot. The Colonel is
more dead set against it than ever now.
He ought to have carried her off when he
had the chance."

With a coach and six horses, sir ? '
said Spilled archly. " Perhaps she
wouldn't let him."

The Hon. Dick wondered a little. That
was his own idea, but he had forgotten
the exact expression he had used to Mary.

I can manage that by myself, sir," she
said, as he rushed to help her move a box.
Their hands touched and their heads were
close together.

Jenny ! " he said, standing upright
again, "do you know, I did really care a
little for you ; but I did not find it out
entirely, until you were gone."

So much the worse for you, sir. 1
mean," she said, colouring again, " that
you cared for me at all."

Why ? Then there is some fellow
down here, after all, you wish to marry } '
he said with a sting of jealousy.

Perhaps, sir — who knows ? "

Just like me. Here I am, poaching
again," he thought to himself. " But tell
me one thing : Is it all settled ? "

I don't mind telling you that, sir. Ita
long way from being settled yet."

The Hon. Dick thought intently for a
few moments.

But I must go now, sir."

Stay one minute ! I want to make a
sketch of you in my drawing."

But I really can't, sir ; I am housekeeper
now, and have a great deal to
attend to."

Just three minutes only ; I am going
to give it to Miss Mary."

It was impossible to resist such a pair of
handsome eyes, and Spilled allowed herself
to be put into position.

Where did you get that wonderful old

grandmother comb?" he said, as he look
at her critically.

Spilled made no answer, and he then set
to work and rapidly drew in the outline
of the figure, and was getting the head well
forward when the model became impatient.

"I never knew such a long three
minutes, sir, in my life ! I really must g< ».
or they will be coming to look for me."

But will you come again ? '

Not if you talk as you have been
doing to-day, sir."

"I promise you I won't, if you will only
come for five minutes, tomorrow."

Will that be by the same clock as the
three minutes, sir?'

"What a girl you are! But I promise
it shall not be long, if you will come."

"I don't believe you have been drawing
me, sir, after all."

Look here, then." And he showed hera
spirited sketch, well advanced, of a very
pretty young woman.

Spilled was mortal. She was highly
impressed by such talent and masterly
rapidity, and her own appearance in the
drawing.

I will see, sir. Perhaps I will come
for a short time," and she darted up the
stairs and disappeared.

By Heavens ! I would marry that girl,
if she would have me ! ' he said to himself.
But what would my old governor say ?
She is a lady by birth, however, after all,
it seems. I always thought she looked
rather like one. How very odd she and
her father should be in such a position !
But there is that other fellow she wants to
marry. I must try and cut him out this
time. I must mind what I am about

though, women are the very devil to move
if they are once gone on another fellow."
And he went on with his drawing, lighting
cigar after cigar.

In the afternoon the Hon. Dick became
impatient, and got the Colonel out for a
long ride. He felt the ground again carefully,
to see if there was any chance of his
coming round to Mary's marriage. But
the Colonel said " he did not wish her to
marry until she was of age. A young
woman had not completed her education
until then. He did not approve of girls
marrying too young, for many reasons.
They only saw the world in the distance,
and they ought to be allowed to get nearer
and see things as they really were ; and
it never answered for a woman to have
daughters looking about the same age as
herself. If he could find Mary, he would

travel for a year or so — there was nothing
like travelling for changing people's ideas
about everything. He ought to have
taken her before. He would never put off
such a thing again."

On their return, the Hon. Dick renewed
his acquaintance with Mr. Spilled, and
studied him more closely. He decided
he was anything but a common coachman,
and would look very different out of his
servant's clothes. The excellent Spilled
little thought what was passing through
that " nice young gentleman's mind."

The young housekeeper appeared again
at prayers that evening, and the Hon.
Dick thought that family prayers were not
such a " stickler " after all. It was interesting,
and had a nice quieting effect, and
made one think of going to bed early. It
was awful the way one managed to stay

up every night about nothing at all ; that
was why one felt so down in the morning.
He would reform ; though he thought it
would hardly pay to have in Finch and
read prayers to him when he wanted to goto
bed early.

Mr. Finch, in the mean time, had been
using his utmost powers to fascinate Spilled
in the housekeeper's room ; but he was
completely routed, and had to confess to
himself he had never met her equal for
making a man feel small. He was also
greatly taken with the good looks of Ruth
at the early dinner in the servants' hall;
but as to getting up a flirtation with one
of the under servants — that was quite
beneath him.

The next morning, the Colonel received
a letter from Harrison, with the same old
story. Sergeant Johnson also wrote to

the Colonel, rather to his surprise. He
again urged, on his own account, that he
might be allowed to come down to White-patch.
Although he did not allude to ita
suspicion had arisen in his mind that
Harrison was not particularly anxious the
young lady should be found. There was
something at the bottom he did not understand.
The Colonel suddenly changed his
mind about detectives. "They were blundering
fellows, after all. He should have to go
himself. He was certain those women had
got her somewhere or other. What was
the good of these fellows if they could not
find out ? What did Huntingcroft think ? "

Well, Colonel, you know what I think
about it ; but as matters are, I should let
her alone at present. She will get homesick
before long, and want to come back."

The Colonel sent orders to Harrison to

go on watching the institution, but he did
not say anything more about going himself,
and he obstinately clung to his opinion that
she was in London or the neighbourhood.

After breakfast the Hon. Dick escaped
from the Colonel as soon as civility would
allow, and hastened down to the little
garden. He was afraid Miss Jenny would
be beforehand with him and feed the
animals before he came. He sat down in
the summer-house, lit a cigar, and proceeded
to spoil his work of the day before.
Presently he heard a slight sound over his
head; he started out and looked up. " There
she was ! " He thought he had never seen
her look so pretty, or her womanly figure
appear to greater advantage, as she stood
in that position glancing down at him, and
she had a shy look he had never observed
in her before.

Well, are you coming down ? "

That depends, sir, on how you are
going to behave."

I swear I'll be as good as the old
Colonel ! "

Spilled laughed. " Well, sir, I'll comedown
just for a short time, but I must feed
the little animals first." And she descended
slowly.

The Hon. Dick would not " go on with
his painting." No, he wanted to look at the
"little animals" also, and he went round
with her. " How could her young mistress
be so fond of such little brutes ? They
were only fit to be kept in a kennel ! "

Miss Mary must have something to
love and take care of, and the more they
were despised by other people the more she
seemed to like them," said Spilled.

I will never believe that parrot was

one hundred and twenty years old," said
the Hon. Dick.

He was over a hundred for certain, sir.
Perhaps Mr. Harrison stretched a point to
please Miss Alary."

He must have stretched a good many
points, I think."

"No, sir, he's generally pretty correct."

u But, Jenny '

I am called Mrs. Spilled now, sir, and
I would rather you called me by my rig] it
name."

Well, then, Mrs. Spilled, middle-aged,
plain, and most disagreeable housekeeper
at Whitepatch Manor, when are you going
to retire from your pots and pans and get-mar
red ? '

I am not going to tell you any tiling
more about it, sir ; and if you are going
to stick me up again like a stone statue in

the cold, the sooner you begin the better.
It's to be only five minutes, remember, sir.
And I shall go by my own watch this
time."

The Hon. Dick placed her in position.
I shall talk to you a little, and then it
won't seem so long. You mustn't move
when I speak, mind. But what have you
done with your comb ? It was charming,
and suited you exactly ! "

Jenny neither moved nor answered.

Tell me something about your family.
The Colonel told me a little."

There isn't much to tell, sir."

Don't turn round and look at me when

I speak ! ' he said, the enthusiastic artist

prevailing over the lover for the moment.

That is all nonsense ; where did you

live ? "

At Ixstead, sir."
vol. ii. 33

What ! that charming old place near
the Little Sack ? I made a sketch of that,
and have been inside the house."

Yes, sir ; and the Little Sack belonged
once to my grandfather also."

You don't say so ! how very odd !
"Well, but how did you lose it all ? '

I believe my grandfather was really
quite mad, and he sold everything to a
Jew at Shrimpgate, for nothing at all
hardly, they say ; and there was some
property at Shrimpgate that went with it
that's worth I don't know what, now, sir''

"Extraordinary! Well, but now — just
move a little this way — not too much ; that
will do nicely. You are a capital model,
Mrs. Spilled. Well, who has got it now '.- '

The same family, sir, I believe. Tl
own half Shrimpgate ; and most of the
public-houses, where the people come down

for Saturday and Sunday, belong to them,
they say."

Do you know their name ? "

If you are particularly anxious to
make their acquaintance, sir, I dare say
father can tell you ; I believe they have
turned Christians now."

No, I have no intention at present of
spending either a Sunday or Saturday at
Shrimpgate. But was nothing saved ? '

Nothing at all, sir, except a few things
father has."

How very odd ! Haven't you any
relations ? '

None hardly in Kent, sir, except very
distant ones. Father and I are the only
Spilletts left, except the Spilletts in Dorset-shire,
and they wouldn't look at us now."

Don't be too sure of that. Have you
ever tried them ? "

Father wouldn't do that, sir ; it's the
last thing he would do."

The Hon. Dick went on drawing in
deep silence.

It's getting on to half an hour, sir,"
said the model, glancing at her watch,
*' and I must go ; and I can't stand again
for you, sir. Some one will be seeing me
out of Miss Mary's windows ; they come in
there now at odd times."

But you must, Jenny ! "

Indeed, I can't, sir ; you won't see me
down here in the garden again."

The Hon. Dick was silent a short time ;
then he said suddenly —

kk Jenny ! — Mrs. Spilled — will you marry
me ? Don't look round ; and don't alter
the colour of your face like that ! "

M You ought to be ashamed of yourself,

sir !

Dear Jenny, I am quite serious," he
said, pausing in his work and looking at
her earnestly. " I have loved you ever
since I have known you, and you know
it. If you will marry me, I will be so
fond of you and so kind to you, that you
couldn't help being happy ; and I am sure
you will make me very happy."

Spilled did not reply immediately.

Jenny ! " he said with soft entreaty.

No, sir," she said quietly. " I don't
think I should make you happy — at least,
not in the long run. I know the world a
little, young as I am, because I have
always been obliged to notice and think a
great deal ; and I know what fine ladies
and gentlemen are. You would have
a bad time of it if you married a servant,
and had a coachman for a father-in-law."


Jenny, you are quite wrong ! You
forget that a man in my position can
marry whom he pleases. I should like to
see any one snubbing my wife ! '

Not a servant, sir. If I had been an
actress that no one could exactly answer
for, or even a woman divorced, you might
easily enough," she said with some bitterness
; " but not a servant. You would
never be forgiven that."

What nonsense, Jenny ! Besides, you
are a lady by birth."

Oh, I know, sir ; people won't believe
that. And there is another thing — well —
it's better to speak out the truth plain,
sir," a beautiful colour coming again into
her face, which bad grown pale, u a woman
doesn't like to be looked down upon by
her — well, sir, her descendants," meaning
her own children.

Jenny, misfortune has not agreed with
you. How bitter you are ! "

Perhaps I may be, sir, because I don't
feel like a servant, and yet I am obliged to
be one ; and I know father feels the same.
It is not the masters and mistresses ; it's
the other servants."

Jenny, if you will marry me, I will let
the world go to the devil and take care
of itself ! "

You think that now, sir ; but you
wouldn't some day."

You are as obstinate as the old Colonel
and Mrs. Crippin put together ! "

But I really must go, sir ! "

"Jenny, you care for some one else?
You don't care a straw for me ! "

She glanced at him, but he did not
catch the look in her eyes, as in his
mortification and disappointment he was

looking down and mixing up his colours
all wrong.

You have no right to ask that, sir ;
but I am grateful to you for the honour
you pay me, and I will tell you the truth.
I have no intention of marrying any one."

But do you care for me a little, then,
Jenny ? If you and your father were ina
better position, would you marry me ? '

You are a very kind gentleman, sir,
and one man is pretty much as good as
another, and if I were obliged to marry —
perhaps — I might. But that can never
be, and it is no use talking about it anymore.
I am going now, sir ! '

He caught her in his arms as she tried
to escape, and her lips trembled as they
met his. She lingered a brief moment,
and then tore herself from him and flew
up the stairs with a great patch of scarlet

vermilion on her shoulder which had run
from the colour-box he still held in his
hand.

u By Heavens ! I believe she cares forme
a little, after all, and I'll marry her
yet, if the whole world says no ! Thank
God, there is no other fellow this time ! '

Spilled appeared regularly at prayers,
and the grandmother comb was again in
her hair, but the Hon. Dick could not get
sight of her at any other time. He wrote
a very touching letter, sealed it, and tied it
up to the horns of the Queen of Sheba.
The note disappeared, but no answer came
to it, nor could he succeed in catching her
in the garden again. At the end of his
week, he was obliged to return to town on
duty.

In the mean time, nothing was heard of
Mary or her lover, and the Colonel began

to think she was deceiving him worse than
ever, and that " the best of women would
outdo Ananias and Sapphira for the sake
of a lover."

During Mary's disappearance, Spilled
paid several visits to Canterbury. " She
had to settle her clothes to her new
position."

CHAPTER XI.

THE RECTOR GOES INTO BATTLE.

During these recent events, the worthy
Rector had been at Bath, steeping his
rheumatic limbs in that excellent water,
and only returned home on the Saturday
after the departure of the Hon. Dick,
early in that same week. He had heard
confused and contradictory reports of
what had happened at the Manor during
his absence, but he felt certain his
obstinate old friend the Colonel would
probably prove to be wrong in the misfortune
which had happened to such a
sensible girl as his granddaughter. He

was greatly perplexed in spirit to know
what part he should take in the matter, or
if it were safe to take any. The Colonel
knew the hour he was expected to arrive,
and about five o'clock wrote a note to ask
him to dinner that evening, if he was not
too tired after his journey. Spilled met
John coming out with it in his hand,
and she had a flash of inspiration. " The
old Rector was a bachelor."

I am going over to the Rectory in a
few minutes to see Mrs. Evans, and I'll take
it," she said ; and John gave her the note.

The Rector was drinking his tea, and
looking at his accumulation of letters and
papers by the fire after his journey, when
his servant came in and said Mrs. Spilled
had brought a note from the Colonel, and
wished to see him for a moment. The
Rector had long known Spilled, and considered

her a remarkably intelligent and
superior girl, who knew what she was
about. He had been very pleased to hear of
her promotion; and he was not at all of the
opinion of his own housekeeper that such a
mere girl ' was much too young for her
post. " It was not the age," he said; " it all
depended on the person." So the young
housekeeper was received graciously, and
congratulated on her new position, and so
much did they find to say to each other,
that the interview lasted nearly three
quarters of an hour. After he had sent
by Spilled a hasty note to the Colonel,
accepting his invitation, he neglected his
papers and sat down to think.

He must brace up his nerves, and act
like a man, whatever came of it. It was
as he expected. But what a sly little puss !
It was as good as a comedy ! "

The Rector found his old friend look:
much the same as usual after his recent
troubles, except that he was a little sad and
mournful. " "What a tough old fellow he
is ! ' he thought ; " it would have killed
me!"

The dinner did not commence very gaily.
The Colonel said little, and his daughter
had not the faintest idea of the art of
throwing the ball in general conversation.
She could hold forth in a dull way on anything
that occupied her mind, if any one
would listen to her ; otherwise she remained
silent. The Rector, however, drank his
champagne, and made head against the
prevailing stagnation — becoming cheerful
and full of his own peculiar quaint little
stories and observations on things and
persons at Bath. Then the Colonel cheered
uj) a little also, and by the time the two old

gentlemen had finished their modest one
bottle — Miss Doddingstead never touched
champagne ; it made her face red, she
thought — the dinner went very well indeed,
as the Colonel had plenty to say in his own
way when he was in the humour, or had
any one else to start him.

As soon as Miss Doddingstead had retired,
and they were alone after dinner, the
Rector brought his courage to the sticking-point
and alluded to the " unfortunate
trouble' he feared his friend had had
during his absence. The Colonel remained
silent a moment, and then, hesitating a
little, began to relate his misfortunes —
finding it a great relief, after all, to have
a friendly and, as he believed, sympathetic
ear wherein to pour them. The Rector
cautiously sounded him as to the strength
of his resistance, and found it was, as he

feared, almost invincible. The Colonel did
not conceal from him the mistake he had
made from his over-confidence and want
of foresight in the matter of the young
people meeting, nor yet the good personal
character he had heard of the young man,
though he placed small confidence in it
himself, " he knew the breed too well."
The Rector saw it was hopeless to attack
the Colonel in the front, and point out to
him the mistake he had made in overstraining
his prejudices and authority when
the mischief was done; so he made a skilful
flank movement. The Colonel had produced
Mary's letter, and the Rector called
his attention to the firmness of its tone, and
the great improbability of a girl of her
character changing her determination, now
that she had given her promise. He
thought it extremely likely she would

carry out her intention of joining one of
the religious institutions, as she had often
talked to him about them. " It was unnecessary,"
he said, " to point out to him
the consequences, for if she once did so, his
granddaughter would probably remain unmarried
for life, and the Doddingstead
family would come to an end in the
county."

This was a tremendous hit, and shook the
Colonel on his pedestal even more than
the Rector had hoped. The Colonel had
not thought that could be possible. " It
would be too monstrous." He had been
bitterly disappointed by the death of his
son without a male heir, and had built all
his hopes on Mary's marriage. But he
still held his ground. " She was a mere
child. It was absurd to suppose she

would never in time like some one else."
vol. n. 34

The Rector returned to the charge.

He thought her youth was the worst part

of it. His experience of life had shown

him that the real shipwreck of women's

affections had nearly always come in early

life, before they had been tempered and

hardened by contact with the world ; and

the more honest and good they were, the

more complete was the catastrophe. A girl

of Mary's sincere and earnest nature, who

had lived her life of retirement, was a

sacrifice bound hand and foot ready for the

fire of a false god. It was his honest

opinion she was a girl who would never

give her heart now to another man, and

she would certainly never marry any one

to whom she could not give it. He felt

certain, also, she would not marry without

her grandfather's consent ; and it was a

million to one if any man would wait for

her until after his death. And then, what a
poor thing her life would be compared to
that of a woman surrounded by her children
even if her husband was not quite all
that could be desired."

The Colonel sat in deep silence, and a
tear came into his eye. At length he asked
the Rector if he would have any more wine,
and proposed that they should go into the
drawing-room. On going through the hall,
he took his old friend's arm, stumbling
over the little step near the drawing-room
door, which he had known all his life.

The Rector retired early, to " finish his
sermon for tomorrow " — no one was aware
that he had written a new one for many a
long year — and as he walked over to the
Rectory, he thought that matter must be
practically settled, for he had never known
the Colonel let him have the last word on

any subject whatever on which they
differed in opinion ; and he decided he
should have to get a new surplice for the
wedding, as he hung up his hat by the side
of his old one.

After the Hector had gone, the Colonel
sat in his large chair, glancing alternately
at the portraits of his ancestors. He dwelt
particularly on an ancient picture, the
portrait of Sir Cuffs Doddingstead, the
founder of the family prosperity. He had
thought it unfortunate enough that the
family would at last end in a female representative
; but it was worst of all if it
should die out altogether. But it was
nonsense ! She was a mere girl yet ! Still,
that quiet fellow Maxstead was not without
a grain of good sense ; and he gloomily
recalled the number of times he had proved
right in matters on which they had differed

in opinion. " He would go to bed, and
leave the matter until the morning."

It is necessary to return a moment to
the Hon. Dick. Sir John Wyldernan had
been failing for some time, and on his
return to town, the young Guardsman
found himself besieged with letters and
telegrams to know what could possibly
have become of his friend, as nothing had
been heard of him, and Sir John was
seriously ill. He advised an immediate
insertion in the papers of the fact, and to
wait the result. A few days afterwards
our hero burst in upon him on his way to
Gloucestershire. He had been living in
Paris, acting under superior orders to let
no one know where he was.

The Hon. Dick shouted so loudly with
laughter at a short account of the real state
of affairs given him by his friend, that his

neighbours came running in to see what
was going on.

Wyldeman hurried off to the Great
Western, but the Hon. Dick broke out
again several times after his departure.

The Colonel, after a restless night, came
down the following morning still undetermined.
Such a deep-rooted prejudice was
not to be torn up at a moment's notice. He
went to church, and to the astonishment
of his parishioners, the Rector did produce
a new sermon, which he had composed at
Bath to fill up the long hours in the evening.
His more simple hearers would have
preferred one of his old ones ; they were
like so many chapters in the Bible, which
they could listen to without fear of what
was coming, and without the effort of
extra attention. The subject and substance,
however, of this new discourse was

as old as the hills. It was on the blessings
of health and the rewards of a regular and
temperate life, both in this world and the
next. He had gone over it carefully the
night before, to make sure that not a word
or sentence could be construed into preaching
at his old friend in his misfortune, or
offering him advice publicly. The Rector
always classed the Church of England
under four divisions — the High Church, the
Low Church, the Broad Church, and the
Gentlemanly Church ; he prided himself
on belonging to the latter. Its watchwords
were " No meddling impertinences ; " " No
wrenching of the religious screw." He
was of opinion that what was not given
willingly to Grot was of small value. It
did more harm to the individual by stirring
his anger and hypocrisy and dislike to his
minister and religion, than good to the community

at large. In his sermon he maintained
that good health was very much a
matter of good sense, a regular life, and a
right appreciation of God's intentions in
the use of ourselves. That religion which
came only from ill health and a fear of
death, was slavish and unwholesome, and
would have a heavy discount at the day
of judgment. God was a God of infinite
jealousy, and would not look with favour
on those who turned to Him from a selfish
fear at the last moment. The perfect
Christian was the healthy soul in the
healthy body, the healthy body being nearer
to the perfection of God than the diseased
one, and also freer from the many temptations
which beset the latter. God set a
model for our guidance in order and regularity
in the sun, the moon, the stars, and
the whole universe. He who led an

irregular life, departed from the manifest
intentions of God and could only expect
punishment, for disobeying Him, in ill
health and consequent unhappiness, and
often misfortune. If we had not health,
we had not happiness ; and the honest
labourer, with health, though he might
complain of his lot, was a far happier
man than a duke in his castle without
it. The rich man sometimes wondered
that the poor man was able to live
on the simple food he obtained ■ the poor
man might wonder, with much greater
truth, that the rich man was alive at all
on the excess of food which he took.
(Miss Doddingstead thought of the famous
good dinner she had watched the preacher
eat the night before — the Colonel would
have been horrified if he had known
either the thought or the proceeding — but

Jenkins did not admire either the Rector or
his sermons !) If a man had good health
and a good conscience, lie had every
essential requisite that God intended for
his earthly happiness, and all beyond was
often only a burden and a pain, which
lost its value and became little but weariness
and vexation as life advanced. The
humility which Christ had taught us as
the absolute and only true condition of a
right faith in Him, was almost impossible
for those who deliberately strove for riches
and worldly honour. (The Colonel winced a
little, and wondered if all that was intended
for him. The Rector had not thought that
such old common-places of religion could
be so taken.) He wound up by exhorting
them when they went to their work in the
early summer morning amid the dew on
the hedgerows, and in the winter through

the pure and beautiful snow on the grass
and fields, and saw the great sun ever
daily starting anew on its journey ; and
when they returned again from their
labour in the evening, and saw it sinking
to its rest in splendour ; — to remember that
it was God's pattern of a daily regularity
that never failed in its appointed task,
bringing health and the beauty of life in its
train. In running, then, their daily course,
let them above all things be orderly and
regular ; let them make their duty to God
and their neighbours a fixed habit of their
lives, and it would then cease to be irksome,
and come to them as naturally as the
rising and the setting of the sun. Let
them think of the evil that would ensue if
that broke its regular course for one day
only, and never to forget that we were
equally a part of God's creation and that

the same law applied to ourselves. He
must remark, in conclusion, that he had
always found those who did not come to
church regularly, were the most disorderly
in their own houses, the least healthy and
cleanly, and the least prudent and successful
in the management of the simple means
which God in His wisdom had given them.
With the exception of Jenkins and her
mistress (so called) the Rector was greatly
respected and liked in a quiet unconscious
manner by his parishioners. All felt it
would be a sorry day when he should have
to leave them, and all were pleased to see
him looking so much better for his sojourn
at Bath, as he had lately shown symptoms
of declining. But one of his clerical
neighbours, who was always at war with
his own parish, declared that Maxstead's
sole religion was " Come to church, and
wear a clean shirt."

CHAPTER XII.

THE COLONEL DISCOVERS SOME NEW Relations,
AND DETERMINES TO FIND A
GOOD HUSBAND FOR JENNY SPILLETT.

In the afternoon the Colonel sat in his
room and looked at his pedigree. He did
not remember ever having done so systematically
before. " It was such an affair ! '
He had only glanced at it for an occasional
reference. All that sort of thing he took
for granted, and did not lay any undue
stress on his advantages in that way. The
Doddingsteads had held the land for
twenty-five generations ; that was enough,
and spoke for itself.

He was much surprised to find, however,
that his great-great-grandfather had
married one Jean Spilled, of Ixstead. The
Spilletts, then, were his cousins ; and they
had never even alluded to it or presumed
on it in any way ! He was very glad he
had made Jenny housekeeper; he should
like to do something for her father. He
wondered whether he could set him up
in one of his farms. If he could only get
rid of that bottle-loving fellow Croucher,
he might make him his bailiff and agent ;
but Croucher did not neglect his business,
and did it well, and his private habits were
no business of his. He would see about a
farm for Spilled.

He then looked again at the interminable
list of names and marriages. It was sad
that such an unbroken descent should come
to an end — "but she was a mere child''

All his arguments with himself ended in
this. He locked up his pedigree again,
and took down a volume of the history of
Kent and turned to the name Spilled. He
was again surprised. He knew they were
a good old family, without being very
great. But he found it was nearly as old
as his own ; and also, what he had not
observed in his own pedigree, a Spilled
had married a Doddingstead in the time of
Elizabeth, and had descendants — so that his
coachman and housekeeper had Nodding
blood, and Ralph Spilled, the lover
of the unfortunate Margaret, was her own
cousin. "It was astonishing, when families
got down in the world, how those things
slipped out of sight ! ' But Spilled and
his daughter had a great deal of the right
sort of unobtrusive pride. He had found
that out several times in dealing with the

father, and the daughter was himself over
again ; but they were the sort of people
who would get down to be crossing-sleepers,
if left to themselves. He must
attend to it. He was not sure the
daughter ought to remain in service; but it
would be a great blow to Mary to part
with her. By-and-by he would find hera
good husband, and set her up in someway
or other. In the mean time he
would increase her salary, and she could
save. He then read the description of the
Spilled coat-of-arms, and, putting down
his book, went out into the hall and looked
at the window.

He was so familiar with it since a boy,
that had he to pass an examination as to
the coats which were there, he really could
not have said anything for certain about
them, except that the Doddingstead coat

with many quarterings was in the centre.
Yes, indeed, there was the Spilled coat,
and a very good one too — simple, like all
the good old coats. How very curious
that he should not have known ! He
wished he had known before, Huntingcroft
seemed taken with the Spilletts. He would
have been interested to hear what he had
discovered.

At this moment that impetuous young
gentleman was returning by an afternoon
train from Shrimpgate ; having, after all,
passed the whole of a Saturday and part
of a Sunday at that cheerful if not highly
aristocratic watering-place.

The Colonel again passed a restless night ;
and he almost swore at his old friend Don
Carlos, who persistently returned again and
again to remind him with the same eternal
deliberation of the mess he had made for

vol. ii. 35

himself; and he thought his old repeater in
the watch-pocket near his head had a most
irritating loudness of tick. He would
change it for the Queen Anne that was in
his room below. Those idiotic housemaids,
too, must have been altering the arrangements
of his blankets, they were smothering
him to death. Jenny Spilled, with all
her cleverness, didn't know how to look
after his bed like Mrs. Harrison. Then he
quarrelled with his pillow ; he was certain
they had changed it. His head seemed to
sink into nothing. His bones must be getting
thin and sharp, he felt them so plainly.
It was a mistake to live too long. The
weariness of the flesh gets the better of you,
and a man becomes like an old purse with
the framework coming through.

He however came down in time to take
his walk before breakfast, and entered for

prayers as usual, giving more attention
than was his wont to the words he was
reading, soothed by the fine rhythm and
sublime language of the old collects and
prayers for the morning which he had
selected in preference to Bishop Lexicon's,
who had seemed to him of late vapid and
artificial by comparison, without the sympathetic
elevation a man wants in times of
trouble. Those men, he thought, were inspired,
and wrote in times of trouble ; how
could a modern bishop, in clover and fine
linen, feel like them ?

Miss Doddingstead opened the morning
paper. She seldom read anything but the
murders and accidents, and the births,
deaths, and marriages.

The Colonel was standing with his back
to the fire caressing the fine head of old
Shot, still thinking of his trouble, and that

the old dog might last him out yet, when
his daughter exclaimed —

Papa, Sir John Wyldeman is dead ! '

The Colonel snatched the paper from her
hand. " Yes, it was true ! ' He then threw
it away, and sat down to his breakfast.

The matter of " to be or not to be ' had
been so nicely balancing in his mind, that
the death of Sir John sent the scale down
on Mary's side, and for a few brief minutes
he decided " it should be, and that Mary
should be made happy in her own way."

Miss Doddingstead picked up the paper
from the floor, and proceeded to look over
its contents. Presently she again exclaimed,
" Papa, here is a long notice of Sir
John."

The Colonel once more snatched the
paper from her hand, and read the notice.

In this Sir John AVvldeman was extolled

as a model of all county gentlemanly excellence
and virtue ; his amiable and social
qualities, his great services in the Liberal
cause, and the loss which his death would
occasion, were dwelt upon at some length.

It is all a d d lie ! ' cried the

Colonel. He crunched the paper in his
hand and flung it contemptuously on the
floor.

Again did the scale in which poor Mary
was placed kick the beam. The Colonel
went on furiously eating his breakfast, muttering
to himself and twisting his piece of
toast savagely in two as if it were the neck
of an enemy.

"It is all a d d lie ! Infernal

humbug ! Plausible scoundrel ! Find me
endorsing that ! No, it shall never be !
Let the family come to an end ! But that
is all stuff. The girl is a woman, and only

eighteen! Liberal cause, indeed ! Radicals
and Revolutionists ! My name shall never
be joined to that ! "

He rose at length from the table, and
pushed back his chair with such impetuous
haste that old Shot retreated howling and
limping to a corner.

The Colonel stopped a moment to soothe
the dog, gave him a chicken bone from the
table, and then went out and ordered his
horse, to attend to matters on his property
— a sure sign with him that his mind
was made up.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE HON. DICK BECOMES A CONSERVATIVE.

Before his departure on his last visit the
Hon. Dick had twice paid a visit to Ixstead,
and finding the house was still to be lethe
had entered and gone over it. It was
a charming old rambling black and white
Kentish house, to which a new wing had
been added in the worst taste by the
present owner. A great deal of the old
furniture and many portraits of the Spilled
family still remained there, mixed up with
a collection of odds and ends, old and new
of all kinds, until the fine old drawing-room
looked like a broker's shop or a sale

room. He had ascertained the size and
extent of the property from the people in
charge, and found that it was a good
property, though not very large. The
house was well placed amidst old trees,
with a distant view of the sea and the
world-known white cliffs. He also discovered
it had been offered for sale not
long since, and he determined on the spur
of the moment to buy it. If the Spilletts
would not accept it from him, as a proof
of his love for Jenny, he did not think that
any woman would resist the temptation
of becoming the mistress of the old home
of her family — even if she had to marry
the owner ! In any case he would comedown
there in the winter to hunt and
continue the siege in a comfortable manner.
On his return to town he rushed off as
soon as he could get away to Shrimpgate ;

and by the evening of the same day he had
practically concluded what he thought to
be a famous bargain with the Christian Jew
owner for the Ixstead property — in which
he agreed to give a much larger sum than
it was worth. But he was an only son, and
he was aware his father had a great deal
more money than he knew what to do with,
and never in the end denied him anything
he wanted. Without saying a word to his
father, he placed the matter in the hands
of the family solicitors, and started off for
the midland counties to see him.

After dinner, on the day of his son's
arrival, Lord Huntingcroft received the
following intelligence.

I have bought a property down in
Kent, sir."

In Kent ! What are you going to do
down there, Dick ? "

I mean to slip away there in the
winter for a day or two's hunting, when
I can manage it ; it is by no means good
hunting, but I like the people down there
and the place. It's awfully healthy, you
know, sir. There is sea all round it, and
I never feel so well as I do there. But
I shall want you to help me a little with
the purchase money — if you don't mind ? "

But did you manage it yourself?" said
the amiable old gentleman, much astonished
at this sudden taste for business in his son.

"It is all in the hands of Heavy and
Young, sir, and they'll see I am not done
in any way."

His father looked reassured.

But I ought to tell you there is a
woman in the matter also."

My dear boy, that sort of thing is much
better confined to town ! ' said Lord ,

shocked at the way he thought
his son was going to scandalize the good
people in Kent. " But why won't you do
what you know I have set my heart on
and marry ? "

But, father, that's it. It is a woman
I want to marry, if I can only persuade her
to have me."

The old gentleman became highly interested.
" Well, who is she ? "

Well, sir, — at the present moment she
is the housekeeper at Whitepatch."

Lord Huntingcroft turned in his chair,
and stared at his son in amazed bewilderment.


Housekeeper ! Are you out of your
mind, Dick ? "

u No, sir, not in the least ; wait till you
hear all about it." And he related the
history and misfortunes of the Spilletts,

and his intention to reinstate them in their
old home if they could be induced to accept
his offer.

His father looked glum. He had very
different ideas about his son's marriage ;
but he was too wise to offer open opposition
at once.

u But the lady must be old enough to be
your mother?" he said.

Not at all, father ; she is only three and
twenty, and wonderfully good looking —
bright and fair, like an angel, and awfully
clever and nice. But the worst of it is,
she won't have me."

Won't have you ? " said Lord Hunting-croft,
more and more perplexed with the
whole matter.

No, sir ; she has refused me pointblank,
though I am sure she cares for mea
little. She swears it won't pay to marry

a servant, and that she will not make me
happy in the long run."

The young housekeeper rose much
higher in the old gentleman's estimation
than he thought it prudent to allow.

At any rate she is not devoid of sense.
She is quite right ; it wouldn't pay, you
may be sure of that," he said.

But I can't agree with you, father ! '
said the Hon. Dick very warmly. " She
is good, and she is a lady ; now that she
is down in the world that is only another
reason I should stick to her. But I am
really so fond of her I would marry her tomorrow,
even if she were nothing but a
servant."

This comes, Richard, of your Radical
notions ; and I don't know what the family
will come to if you go on like this. I
suppose the housekeeper is a Radical too ? '

No, indeed, sir, she is not ! She is a
red-hot little Tory. We have had many
a discussion on that, and she has said more
than once she would never marry a Radical,
and I shouldn't wonder," said the Hon.
Dick reflectively, " if that isn't one of the
reasons why she refused me."

Perhaps — not unlikely," said Lord
Huntingcroft, the girl rising more and
more in his opinion of her.

I know this, that if she did marry me,
I should have to become a Conservative
too, for she is awfully firm about everything.
I never knew such a girl for
that."

"But would you give up your Radical
notions, Dick?" said his father experimentally,
rather to sound the strength of
his political opinions than thinking of the
marriage.

Certainly, sir ! I would do anything in
the world to marry that girl, and to please
you ; ' and he added with a sudden, new
impulse, " I would even stand for the
county, as I know you wish."

On the right side, Dick ?



Yes, sir, on any side for that girl — and
you, father."

This was a great bait to Lord Hunting-croft,
a keen politician and a staunch Tory
of the old school, who had swallowed much
bitterness in his son's desertion of the old
political faith of the family.

And you say she is really of a good
family ? There is no nonsense about
that ? "

You have got all the old county histories
in the library, sir ; I will show you
in three minutes. It is sure to be there."
He rushed off to the library, and returned

after some time with a large old volume,
one of several, of the History of Kent.

Lord Huntingcroft carefully looked at it
for himself. " You are sure they are the
same family ? '

Not a doubt of it, sir. Colonel Dodd-instead
knows everything about them,
and the property I have just bought is the
place where they lived. ' Ixstead,' you seethe
name there. It is quite close to
Whitepatch."

Well, Dick, I will think about it. We
don't want money, and I would give a good
deal to see you married and a good Conservative."


The Hon. Dick knew from this he would
get his way, " if that obstinate girl wasn't
so obstinate ! '

On the following morning, Lord 
gave his consent on the conditions

named, and Heavy and Young were to let
him know what they required for the
purchase.

After his son's departure, he thought it
just as well that " Master Dick should unite
himself to such a paragon of firmness and
good sense as this girl seemed to be." He
did not anticipate any prolonged resistance
on the part of the lady, and thought that
she showed good judgment of his son's
character in putting him to a test of his
real feeling ; and altogether he formed a
high opinion of his proposed daughter-in-law.


vol. ii. 36

CHAPTER Xii.

THE READER IS TAKEN INTO THE SECRET.

When Mary had her great quarrel with
her grandfather a few Saturdays previously,
she rushed up to her room with
her eyes flaming and her gentle face
burning with anger and indignation.
Spilled was absent, but when she came up
not long afterwards, she seized the occasion
with masterly skill. It had been her
original intention, if Mary failed again with
her grandfather, to induce her to run away
and hide herself with Mrs. Sherlock at
Canterbury, until " the old gentleman came
to his senses." She had no very clear idea

of the exact workings of the process, but
she had a full confidence in the result
(again her short fingers). Mrs. Sherlock
had at first consented, readily enough, when
Spilled went over the day before. She knew
the character of her former charge sufficiently
well to believe Spilled's confident
opinion that Miss Mary's happiness was
ruined for life, if this marriage was not
allowed to take place ; and she knew the
Colonel " took maggots into his head which
nobody could drive out of him." She
accepted Spilled's opinion of men as gospel,
and believed that the young gentleman
in question was in every way suitable for
Miss Mary. But when her quiet little
husband came home before Spilled's departure,
he at once put a veto on the matter,
as endangering his position of accountant
at the brewery. The Colonel was a gentleman

of high position in the county, and the
partners of the firm, who had families of
their own, would certainly side with him.
Spilled had to return home defeated on this
point, but by no means discouraged. She
had another string to her bow which was
even better, though it might not be so
pleasant to Miss Mary, and that was to
conceal her in the Priest's room over the
library — as the Colonel rarely entered that
room, excepting when some distinguished
visitor was staying in the house.

She told Mary of her discovery, and
suggested to her to hide herself there at
once, and let the Colonel think what he
liked of her disappearance. " That would
bring him to book one way or another ! '

Mary at first would not entertain the
idea of such an underhand proceeding. If
she could not now live happily with her

grandfather she would like to join the
Sisters of Mercy.

Spilled was certain the Colonel would
never allow that ; he would be even
more against it than the other thing.
This was her only chance, unless she
wished to give up Captain Wyldeman
altogether, and never see him again. The
Colonel had ordered Mr. Harrison to have
all his summer things packed, and on
Monday she would be taken away, it might
be for several years or even more. Mr.
Harrison had just told her of the Colonel's
orders. Now that the Colonel had had a
good fit of temper over it, he would be more
reasonable, particularly if he hadn't anyone
to stand up and fight him about it any
longer, and he would get sorry now for
what he had done, and be more disposed
to come round.

Mary admitted the truth of this, but it
was the idea of being carried off at once
for so long that decided her. She was also
too deeply stung by her grandfather's injustice
to her lover to calmly exert her
usual good sense and reason ; so she consented
to follow Spilled's advice — " things
could not be much worse than they were at
this moment."

Mary had also an anxiety about her
lover. She feared he and her grandfather
might meet ; and men sometimes were so
violent, she dreaded to think what might
happen. She told Spilled of the information
her grandfather had given her, that
he was waiting for her in the avenue at
that moment. Suppose her grandfather
went out to look for him ? Spilled reflected
a moment. There was plenty of time.
They had the whole day before them. No

one would be likely to come and look for
Mary. So she volunteered to go immediately
to warn him and tell him to leave the
neighbourhood at once.

In three quarters of an hour she returned,
with an impassioned note written in pencil
on the half of a letter. " He would do
everything she wished except give her
up," etc. Spilled had found him much
nearer the house than was prudent. He
entered into the plot, and said it was better
that he should go and hide himself somewhere
as well — and that would throw them
off the scent altogether. He gave Spilled
the address of an hotel in Paris where she
could write to him, if there was any chance
of his being wanted ; but she was to write
in any case to tell him how her young
mistress was — if she could not persuade
Mary to write herself. He would keep out

of sight during the day, and take a train
later, in time to catch the night mail for
Dover.

Spilled then boldly locked the door at
the top of the stairs leading down to Mary's
rooms, lighted a candle, and proceeded with
great briskness to show her young mistress
the secret passage.

Mary s astonishment was very great that
she should never have discovered it, and that
no one should ever have known to where
that closet led ; she had on several occasions
been inside, but so artfully and yet so naturally
was the door placed in the corner that
she had never noticed it. Her wonder increased
when they reached the passage that
looked down on the little hall outside the
drawing-room door, and Spilled had great
difficulty to refrain from laughing out loud
when they saw Jenkins and Miss Nodding

wagging their heads close together in
secret conference at the foot of the stairs.
But she hurried her young mistress forward,
as time was precious for all the arrangements
she wished to make that Mary might
be comfortable. When Mary reached the
Priest's rooms, she was surprised to see
their size, and the handsome and even
comfortable way in which they had been
fitted up. She had imagined from the
descriptions she had heard, that they were
merely small places in the roof. Spilled
had brought with her a sweeping brush,
and a good supply of dusters. She opened
the window, and the two young women set
to work as noiselessly as they could to
restore the place to a little order and
cleanliness. Finally, they got the place
into a more habitable condition. Spilled
then decided to light a fire. She pressed

her round young cheek against the chimney-stack
and found it was warm. She was
certain that it was the same chimney as
the one in the Colonel's room, which was
underneath in that part of the house.

"What fun! If the Colonel did but
know when he poked his own fire ! "

She then went back and brought coals
and wood. The grate was an excellent old
one, that bowed out with hobs at the side.
It burnt well, and a good fire soon gave
the place a very different look. Then she
brought up some carpets, and a large 
nail up over the entrance, and hammer
and nails. The question was the hammering
; it might be heard. But she solved
the matter by giving a tap, and then
waiting some time before she gave another
" that might be the wind or anything."
She then brought up some light pieces

of furniture, books, and Mary's painting
materials.

Now about the bed. Spilled said she
would bring her own mattress and blankets
and sheets. She could manage by taking
some from the spare rooms when she had
time. They then dragged the bed into a
corner, and she threw her plump person
down at full length on it to see what it
was like, and was surprised to find it
almost more comfortable and elastic than a
modern one. " She had thought people in
those days slept on things like boards."

She brought up some of the tools out of
Mary's workshop as fire irons, which did
well enough, though Mary thought it was
a shame to use them for that purpose. She
also brought up a round wooden bonnet-box
of her own for the coals ; but she found
it impossible to coax Mary's bath through

the little door in the closet below. She
however brought up an empty biscuit tinto
stand on the hob for a supply of hot
water.

That's your kitchen boiler, Miss Mary,
and you'll have to do most of the cooking
yourself, and perhaps some of the cleaning
and washing up, as it won't do for me to
be out of the way long ; you'll see — Nancy
will soon be coming half a dozen times a
day now to find me, out of sly curiosity'

Mary smiled. The excitement and
novelty of the enterprise and the hope of
its success cheered her not a little, and it
was also impossible not to be infected by
Spilled's air of carrying everything before
her. Spilled asked, with her nose in the
air, if she would like to have up Poacher,
the old weasel. Mary laughed, and said
she thought the smell of the cooking would

be sufficient ; but she sighed when she said,
If the poor king had only been alive ! '
Spilled said Mr. Harrison was expecting
a new monkey to arrive every day ; his
nephew had heard of a black ring-tail
monkey that he thought would do.

It won't be the same," said Mary.

You are as obstinate about monkeys
as you are about men, Miss Mary," said
Spilled.

I hope friends, too, Jenny."

Her maid threw her arms round her
neck, and said she had always known that,
and she never meant to leave her for any
man in the world ; for there was little of
the mistress and maid between them now,
except the name and the ceremony.

Mary was a little alarmed about the
stairs that led up from the old library.
Spilled said there was nothing to fear.

The Colonel seldom went to the library
now, and never came up into the Priest's
rooms, excepting to show them to a visitor.
They would watch till he went out some
day, and then go down and explore it.
This reminded Mary of the apparition that
appeared in the library, and she began to
be alarmed at the idea of sleeping up there
alone.

I have thought of that, Miss Mary ; if
you will allow me, I mean to sleep with
you. That bed is much bigger than it looks
when you get into it."

Mary thought a moment. " No, Spilled,
I think you had better not. Grandpa is
very likely to get restless in the night, and
come up to my rooms, or even Aunt
Augusta and Jenkins. I don't think I
shall really be afraid."

Spilled thought it extremely probable

some one would come, and did not press
the matter further. She had also another
feeling at the bottom. When Spilled had
got things a little " ship-shape," she thought
it prudent to make an appearance downstairs.
She also wanted to smuggle up
something for Mary to eat. As soon as
Harrison could find Spilled alone, he proceeded
to " have it out with her " about
the letter. Spilled promptly took the bull
by the horns, and ended by bringing him
into the plot. She then got her friend
Eliza into a corner, and had little difficulty
in bringing her in also. Eliza hated
Jenkins, who had also u received her very
shabbily' when she took her seat in the
housekeeper's room. Spilled thought by
these means she could secure Mary's comfort
and secrecy.

At tea-time she presented herself in the

drawing-room in the manner before described
; consoling herself for the stories she
had to tell by the reflection that all was
fair in love and war. In the evening,
Eliza and Harrison packed a basket, picnic
fashion, with everything they thought Miss
Mary could want, and putting in a chicken
uncooked, and a small gridiron, according
to Spilled's orders, Eliza conveyed it to a
cupboard at the top of the back stairs, in the
long passage which led to Mary's staircase ;
and while the Colonel was sitting in impatient
distress over his dinner, his runaway
granddaughter was laughingly cooking
over his head a " spread eagle," which
she ate and enjoyed a great deal more
than a distressed, persecuted, and love-sick
heroine had any business to do — although it
is to be remembered that hunger, love, and
distress accommodate themselves to one

another very often in a most obliging
fashion. Spilled had also private instructions
to administer to the interesting recluse
several doses a day of our old friend the
ignatia, to be alternated with mercurial if
she seemed restless and unable to bear the
restraint of confinement. Spilled firmly
believed in Homoeopathy. Harrison had
cured a sprained ankle for her in almost a
day or so by the administration of arnica
internally alone, which had converted her ;
and she dosed Mary without her knowing
it. Mary believed in Harrison, but not in
his Homoeopathy.

Spilled stayed up with Mary as long as
she could, and then, having tucked her up,
went down to her own room.

In about an hour Mary awoke in a fright
and heard Don Carlos strike twelve immediately
over her head. She counted the

vol. ir. 37

strokes, and thought " it was the fatal
hour." The fire was burning low, and a
night light was feebly shining on the table,
which Spilled, with malice intent, had
borrowed from Jenkins — " she would feel
so lonely up there now Miss Mary w.
gone."

After a fortnight of bitterly cold weather,
the December wind had risen and shook
the old roof, howling in the chimney with
intermittent bursts which seemed to the
excited girl like an unearthly conversation
of strange voices in agony and pain. Slit-thought
she heard some one repeating a
prayer in a low monotonous tone in the
little chapel ; then a sound as of footsteps
on the stairs leading from the library
below. She started up in bed, scarcely
daring to breathe, and then she thought
she heard a voice whisper as if in warning.

'Leave this place." She sprang out of bed,
and seizing the light, escaped through the
opening into the passage, and made her
way rapidly down to the closet, but she
found the door was fastened — Spill sett
having secured it as it would not remain
closed of itself, and she feared an early
visit from the inquisitive Nancy. Mary
began to tremble with cold ; but her
natural courage and her young instinct of
self-preservation came to her rescue, and
calling up all her resolution she determined
to return again to her bed. "She had done
nothing wicked ; the spirits could not
harm her ; Grot would send good angels
to guard her."

On going up the steep narrow steps she
trod on her long night dress and stumbled,
and her light fell and went out. In an
agony she groped her way back until she

reached the end of the passage where the
stairs mounted again to the Priest's rooms,
but she could not find the opening, as the
passage went beyond it, and she had not
observed that it did so. She could find
nothing but a cul-de-sac. She thought
she had got into some other passage which
Spilled had not discovered, and she retraced
her steps and got back again to the stairs
that went down to the closet; on descending,
she trod on the little night-light she
had dropped, and then knew where she
was. She again returned, and arrived at
the same barrier. She now stopped and
thought intently. She must have made a
mistake, and once more she retraced her
steps, but only to arrive at the same result.
Oh, God ! what shall I do ! " she
exclaimed, and she began to tremble
violently with cold and fright.

She then thought she would again try
the door of the closet. When she arrived
there, she pushed with all her strength and
tore her nails in trying to open it, but the
door opened inwards towards her, and she
could not move it either way. Then she
drummed with all her might with her
clenched hand, and screamed to Spilled
with such piercing and agonizing cries
that they would have raised every sleeper
in an ordinary house, hut the solid old
walls in that part of the building were
as thick and impervious to sound as a
dungeon. Her teeth began to chatter, and
she felt the cold stealing on her like death.
She fell on her knees and prayed earnestly
for help. " To be so young and to die like
that ! ' She thought of Margaret Nodding
lying dead and white on the seashore.
Was her fate to be the same ? ' Then

lie again thought she heard the deep
whisper, " Leave this place ! " and she sank
in a swoon on the floor.

The robust Jenny Spilled had gone to
bed after an unusually hard day's work,
and fell quickly into the sleep of the
healthy and honest. The December wind
increased in violence and drove the
frightened rain against her window panes
and shook the old house to its foundation.
But at length she had a terrible dream.
She thought she saw the figure of Margaret
Doddingstead lying on the floor, with a
face as white as snow, and her wet clothes
clinging to her body, and in her hair was
the same flower with the two green leaves
which she arranged for Miss Mary at the
ball. Then the scene changed and she
heard a great hammering as of some one
knocking in nails, and a voice calling herby

name and saying, " Spilled, they are
nailing up Miss Mary in her coffin ; it's
not Margaret Doddingstead — it's Miss
Mary."

A violent gust of wind rattled the old
casement and the shutters of her window,
and she awoke in fright and found her
face bathed in tears. She listened a
moment to the wind, and then suddenly
remembered her young mistress all alone
in the secret rooms. What if she should
be frightened by the wind ! Then she
remembered she had fastened the door
inside the closet if she should want to
come to her. She started out of her bed,
struck a light, and putting on a warm
wrapper determined to go up and " have
a look at her." On trying to open the
secret door in the closet she could only
move it back a part of the way. She

listened, but could hear nothing. She then
passed her arm round inside the door and
could feel some one there. " It was Miss
Mary ! She was certain. How wicked
and careless she had been ! God forgive
her, if anything had happened to her ! '
She put the light down hastily on the
floor, and forced the door slowly open
until she could get inside, and then she
found that it was indeed her young
mistress, as cold as ice and stretched on
the ground as one dead. But she preserved
her presence of mind, and using her great
strength, she took her in her arms and
brought her into the closet. Then with
one hand she placed the light outside in
the little hall, and again taking her in her
arms, she carried her in and laid her on
her own bed. She then ran back for the
light, and when she returned, Mary was

still lying stiff and rigid without sign of
life. The tears burst from Spilled's eyes,
and in an agony she stooped down and
listened to her heart. She thought certainly
she heard it still beating. She dragged
the clothes from under Mary, and covered
her up warmly. Then she determined she
would run and fetch Mr. Harrison. But
with an innate sense of propriety even at
a moment like this, she rapidly seized the
thick mass of fair hair that fell to her
knees — which she was always half ashamed
of, thinking " it wasn't quite natural for
an honest woman " — and tied it up in a
knot behind. She was then snatching up
the candle to start, when she heard a sigh
and a gentle voice saying, " Jenny, is that
you ? Where am I ? '

Oh, thank God ! Then, you are alive,
Miss Mary ! ' she exclaimed, and she fell

down on her knees by the bedside and
placed her arms around her. " But what
has happened to you, dear Miss Mary ?
Do you feel ill ? '

No," she said, " only very, very cold —
but I begin to feel better now. I was only
frightened and came down, and the door
was fastened, and I could not make you
hear " (not a word of reproach !) ; " and
then I don't know what happened."

Shall I fetch Mr. Harrison, Miss Mary?
You may have caught your death of cold."

No, Jenny, I don't feel ill, only cold
and frightened. I think if you would get

into bed with me it might warm me."
You are sure you won't have a little

wine or something ? I can go down and

o;et it in a minute."

u No, I think I only want wanning."
Jenny rapidly got into bed and took her

young mistress in her arms. Her vigorous
life and Mary's youth, soon brought a warm
reaction, and after a softened account of
her agonizing adventures, our heroine was
before long breathing softly, and fast
asleep in the arms of her faithful maid.
Mary's hold relaxed gently, but Jenny
remained long awake, tenderly clasping
her as some precious thing she feared to
break by the least movement — a beautiful
expression of protecting love and devotion
in her face. The wind howled and shook
the old house, and blew the candle which
still remained lighted, as she thought what
a crime she had nearly committed in caring
more about defeating her enemy Nancy,
than of safely guarding her " dear Miss
Mary."

Let the curtain be drawn over the
picture of these two young women, each

with a beauty of her own, as they lay
locked in each other's arms in the soft
light of the flickering candle — so different
in appearance and character and yet so
alike in the eternal stamp of that womanly
goodness and honesty which is the veritable
salt of corrupt humanity !

CHAPTER XV.

THE RING OF VENUS.

The expert in palmistry (and they abound
to-day) will naturally and very rightly ask,
How do you account, sir, for the tenderness
shown at the end of your last chapter
by the young person you call your supplementary
heroine, who has such short
fingers and terrible nails — which generally
we believe indicate a want of tenderness
and even cruelty ? "

Learned sir, or still more learned
madam, I humbly submit that this is a case
which shows the extremely intricate nature
of palmistry, and the great rashness of

judging a character by any one or two
even strongly marked indications."

Then, you are opposed to the dominant
indication theory ? "

Certainly ; unless that indication is so
absolutely dominant that it has all others
in complete subjection to it, as shown in
the monstrous ambition indicated by the
abnormally long forefinger of Napoleon the
Great, or the extraordinary length of the
line of the head in a miser, passing nearly
round to the back of the hand."

And pray, sir, when and where did you
have the remarkable opportunity of examining
the hand of the great Napoleon ? '

Never. But his well-worn gloves are
to be seen any day by those who know
where to look for them, in which the
general character of the form of his hand is
indicated with great clearness."

But your short-fingered young person,
sir?

The short - fingered young person in
question had other indications in her hand
which balanced, and might even outweigh,
in certain given circumstances of life, the
tendency to cruelty, hardness, and severity
shown in her short fingers and nails. She
had a very large ball of the thumb (mount
of Yenus), calm and without lines ; and a
pure, delicate, unbroken line of Yenus in
both hands ; add to this the double line of
life in both hands, which indicates, as you
are aware (apart from its great energy
and the fortune-telling business), strong
sympathy with human nature and active
friendliness of disposition, and although, as
is evident from the conduct of this young
person to her own lover, that her head
governed her heart, yet in the left hand

the line of the heart was equal in length
and clearness to the line of the head and
was a beautiful and well-defined line. But
as the line of the head in the right hand
was longer and straighter than the line of
the heart (this being the hand of action
and master of life at the present moment), it
would predominate over the heart in any
matter in which her reason was called
strongly into play — as in her refusal of the
Hon. Dick, though she was in love with
him. Hence, this young woman could act
with cruelty and even severity should her
reason or her enmity be called into action,
but also with great tenderness should there
be nothing to oppose a free abandonment
to the instincts of the heart as shown in
the left hand — the love and generosity in
the mount of Yenus, and the tenderness
and passion in the ring of Yenus ; this

latter, in my opinion, being much misunderstood
and belied, indicating in truth a fund
of tenderness and passion in itself, either
in man or woman. It is generally found
in the hand of great genius of the emotional
type — dangerous, it is granted, if
broken or in excess — as was most probably
the case in the hand of Byron — but of
supreme value to a gifted nature when
pure, unbroken, and in its right place,
being, in fact, an addition to the line of the
heart which intensifies its qualities for good
or for evil.

Having indulged in this little halt by
the way, the writer again honestly puts
his shoulder to the collar.

Jenny Spilled resolutely kept herself
awake until Don Carlos struck five. She
then gently disengaged herself from Mary,
and proceeded at once to the Priest's rooms.

vol. ii. 38

Having lighted the fire, and put on the
kettle, she returned, and stood for a short
time beside the bed watching our heroine
as she lay with her head on her arm in
calm and gentle sleep. At length she
stooped down, and with a soft kiss called
her by name. Mary awoke at once, much
surprised to find herself in Spilled's bed.

I think you must go back to prison
again soon, dear Miss Mary. The Colonel
is going to start for London by the first
train, and the maids will be up early,
and Nancy is as likely as not to come
prowling about up here for something. I
have got your dressing-gown and slippers,
and have lighted a nice fire upstairs and put
the kettle on, and I will come up presently
and give you some tea. But you had better
go to bed again and keep yourself warm.
Do you feel all right again this morning ? '

Yes, thank you, dear Jenny ; " and she
laughed at her fears of the night before.
But what is grandpa going to London
for ? " she said, a little startled at the news.

I will tell you all about it when I come
up, Miss Mary."

Jenny had kept back her budget of news
the night before, fearing to disturb Mary's
rest.

Mary then started for her hiding-place,
and before long her maid joined her.

I had to go down and get some cream,
Miss Mary ; but there is no one up yet, and
we are all safe."

She made some tea and a slice of toast,
and when Mary had had her breakfast, she
told her of all she had been able to gather
of the Colonel's proceedings the night
before.

Mary looked very sad, but Jenny

Spilled assured her Harrison would take
care of the Colonel, and see that he didn't
distress himself too much. He had little
medicines that would cure everything —
even love ! " Would you like to have some,
Miss Mary ? "

Mary smiled. " Have you tried them,
Jenny ? "

Her maid coloured a little and said
nothing, but she thought how sharp Miss
Mary was becoming.

As soon as she had put things a little
in order, Jenny went downstairs to attend
to her housekeeping duties. She did not
return for some time, but when she came
up again, she told her the Colonel had just
started, taking Mr. Harrison with him,
who had declared the Colonel looked so
poorly, that he would be quite ill if his
mind wasn't quieted a little, and that Mr.

Harrison wanted her to send a letter from
Miss Mary up to him in town by the early
Sunday post, that he could post it for the
Colonel without his knowing where it
came from, to tell him she was safe with
friends, and had not run away with Captain
Wyldeman.

Mary earnestly desired her grandfather
should not think she had eloped with her
lover. As she had no wish to give him
more pain than was necessary, she consented
to write the letter suggested. After
a further consultation with Spilled, the
letter we have seen was sent under cover
to Harrison by the early post, which went
at eleven o'clock. Spilled thought it was
safer to go to church, and Mary read the
morning service to herself, and a sermon
by Robertson, her favourite modern divine.

After Mary had cooked her own

luncheon (Spilled determined to keep
her to the cooking, though she had
declared she could do very well on cold
things), her maid proposed, as the Colonel
was away, they should try to find the
entrance into the library.

But some description of this place must
be first given.

In the passage near the Quixote room,
and nearly opposite the White Closets'
room, was a low, square, solid door which
led down by one deep step into the library.
On entering, one was struck by its gloomy
obscurity, as it was only lighted by one
long low window nearly close to the
ground at the end by the door to the left.
The library was part of the original
building, and of the same date as the hall
below ; its original use could only be
guessed at. It had a very low panelled

ceiling, painted in the Italian manner.
The Priest's rooms, which were immediately
overhead, had been afterwards added, and
were of a much later date. The entire
walls were studded with books from floor
to ceiling, in cases with divisions, excepting
at the end of the room, which had a
curious chimney piece, with cabinets and
drawers for papers on either side of it.
About the middle of the room, on the
right, a partition advanced half-way. This
also was covered with books from floor to
ceiling on both sides and at the end.
In the corner of the room to the left, near
the fire, was a stupendous old square couch
or sofa, considered by its present possessors
to be unique, of quaint structure, and so
large that it would have bedded half a
dozen men at a pinch. At the end of this
couch, near the window, was a ghostly

looking armchair with a stuffed high back,
and sides that came forward at the top
for the head to rest on, and that looked
altogether not unlike a pair of huge
shoulders and arms. It was in this chair
that the apparition of the old squire sat at
dusk, gazing out of the window, with a
gun in its hand. A large round table in
the centre, and half a dozen heavy old
Chippendale chairs completed the furniture
of the room.

The mantelpiece was broad, but light
in construction, with elaborate Italian carvings,
and a long narrow mantelshelf near
the top. On seizing this shelf with the
two hands and throwing all your weight
on it, the mantelpiece descended into the
floor about eighteen inches, disclosing at
the top a long hollow place in which a
man could lie concealed at full length. It

received air and light by ingenious contrivances
in the carving. This is said to bea
virgin hiding-place that was never discovered,
and that once had the honour of
sheltering a cardinal for nearly twelve hours.
In the bay which lies between the half
partition and the fireplace, on the right,
the entire centre bookcase from floor to
ceiling, on being taken hold of by one of
the shelves, could be made to slide outwards,
and then turned like a door on its hinges.
This disclosed a deep closet furnished all
round with rows of narrow shelves, which
had the appearance of a genuine closet to
hold deeds and documents of importance.
The walls and shelves of the closet inio;ht
be pushed and pulled, pressed upwards and
downwards, the floor and ceiling examined,
and no means of exit but the apparently
legitimate one could be discovered, and

yet the way to the Priest's rooms from the
library was through this closet.

In the upper part of the library window,
to the right near the old chair, the following
doggerel lines were inscribed. They did
not look as if they had been cut with a diamond
but rather as if they had been burnt
into the glass in the process of making.

Heir of Whi'puth,
Wouldst thou for Sorrows sleep no Sorrows wake,
Thy Troth-Love bring when Gloom ye Dusk doth

make;
Then lingering Joys shall swage my tearless "Woes,
For thy twain Life from hence my Spirit goes.
Ah! com'st thou not! — as Worm-sought Fruit ye'll

die!
Hand for Hand — heed ! or one from Earth will

fly.

R. D."

This strange and dark inscription had
caused much fear and perplexity in the
family. According to tradition, it was not

found until some little time after the death

i

of Richard Doddingstead, who shot his son
from this window. Each generation had
put its own interpretation on the words,
but few had dared to disobey them ; and it
had been the general custom for the heir to
present himself in the old library at dusk
with his affianced bride before the marriage
took place. Twice had a marriage been
broken off from the reluctance of the bride
elect to endure and the Doddingstead
obstinacy in exacting the ordeal. The
handwriting was the same as Richard Dod-instead's,
as still to be seen in the library
in the fly-leaves of books, and in a small
volume of manuscript poetry written by
him. The Colonel had scoffed at the matter
in his youth as " old woman's stuff," but he
Lad followed the custom, and taken his
affianced bride there at dusk before his

marriage. The spirit of Richard Nodding
appeared to the bride-elect, but the
Colonel saw nothing; and when she died
early at the birth of her twin children, he
attributed it largely to the fright she had
received on that occasion, and took a hatred
to the place, never allowing his son to
enter the room or follow the traditions of
the family in this matter. His son and
his wife had both died young also, and yet
he still clung to his opinion that it was " all
rubbish."

Nevertheless, he had not allowed Mary to
enter the library, and seldom went into the
room himself, excepting to find something
he wanted, or to show the famous hiding-place
and the Priest's rooms to some
distinguished visitor who could not well be
denied.

If the spirit of the old squire appeared to

both the young people before their marriage,
it had been remarked that they lived long
and happily, and the library was never
haunted during their time ; but if he only
appeared to the bride-elect, she died early,
and the library was haunted immediately
after her death.

The reader will now return to the two
young women above. Spilled opened the
door which led to the library and peeped
down the stairs. It was quite dark,
receiving no light excepting from the open
door above. She then lit a candle and,
followed by Mary, went down a handsome
short winding stairs until they came to a
small landing-place below. They looked
about but there seemed no door in the
wainscotting which surrounded it. The
only thing observable was a small bracket
in the wall facing them as they descended,

which looked as if intended to hold a
light.

I think grandpa must have had the
door taken away, Spilled."

"I do not think so, Miss Mary. We
should have heard of the workpeople
coming here, and I am sure he isn't
capable of doing it himself with all his
clock-making ; and when the new Dean
came here I know they went up to the
Priest's rooms, as Mr. Harrison heard them
talking about it at luncheon-time, and the
Dean said there were some at a place near
Guildford he had seen very like them."

I don't remember it, Spilled ; but
grandpa never says a word about the
library before me."

The door is here somewhere, Miss Mary,
and we'll find it if we look long enough."
I wonder if that bracket has anything

to do with it, Spilled ? The Italians
who altered the house were wonderfully
clever in making their hiding-places look
natural."

We'll see, Miss Mary ; " and she caught
hold of the candle bracket and proceeded
to examine it. Presently she gave it a
twist, and a door opened by itself, pressing
gently outwards against her.

We have found it ! " she cried, and she
stepped back and let the door open wide.
They were now able to enter the closet
leading from the library, which has been
already mentioned. The door, which had
opened upon them, still retained its shelves,
which had separated themselves from the
others at the corner mitres — the shelves
being supported by small brackets.

We must get through here somewhere,
Miss Mary. I expect the other door is at

the end," and Spilled proceeded to push
and pull at the end of the closet. At
length it slid back and then opened, and
they found themselves in the library.

Mary thought it very different from
what she had expected. She though it
would be a larger and finer room. After
they had looked about them, Mary went to
look for the inscription on the window, an
account of which and its importance in
the family she had heard from her Aunt
Augusta.

Take care no one sees you from the
garden, Miss Mary ! "

They peeped cautiously through the
window, but there seemed no one about
on the quiet Sunday afternoon.

Mary read the lines again and again
with wonder, till she almost knew them by
heart.

It's dreadful, Jenny ! What does it
all mean ? I know the heir has always
come here before his marriage with his
intended bride, and if he does not, something
dreadful happens ; but I am the heir
now, and I shall have to come if I ever
marry."

Mary was too alarmed and agitated to
study the meaning of the words closely.

Jenny read them carefully, and thought
intently for a few moments ; she then said,
It isn't so difficult, Miss Mary ; I think
I understand most of it, and father has
told me a little. It means the spirit of
the old squire is allowed to escape for a
time from his punishment of having to
stay here if there is no sorrow in the
house, from the master or mistress dying
before their time like his own son. Itt
Hand for hand ' that nobody can under-vol.
ii. 39

stand, unless it means, as some say, that
his handwriting would be known ; but I
don't think it's that myself, and no one
can guess why he appears sometimes to
both and at other times only to the bride.
I am sure there is something in ' hand for
hand' that must be obeyed; if they neither
of them come they will both die young,
and if they both come and do not do
something he wants them to do, the
bride will die young — it's awful, Miss
Mary ! '

It's terrible, Jenny ! " she said, clinging
to her tremblingly. " I wish I had never
come here."

"No, Miss Mary. You will have to
come here, and now you know exactly
what it says, you will be better prepared,
and I think I shall get to the bottom of it
before then, when I have time to turn it

over in my mind ; and besides, it's no use
going against things we don't understand
in any case."

I wonder if poor papa and mamma
came here, Jenny ? '

That's what no one knows for certain,
Miss Mary. Father says he is almost sure
they did not — the Colonel wouldn't let
them."

Don't you think it's getting dark,
Spilled ? We had better go."

Spilled was quite willing to leave such
a ghostly place, and they returned to the
closet. But the door in the inside was
closed ! For nearly half-an-hour the two
young women used their utmost strength
and ingenuity to get the door open again,
but without success.

We are caught in a regular trap, Miss
Mary ! We must try and open the other

door." This they found much too strongly
locked to open without proper means.

Mary broke a paper-knife she found on
the table in trying to force back the lock.

I must climb down from the window,
Miss Mary, and get round. The closed
door will open on the other side."

Impossible, Spilled ! You will never
get through there. A man might, but you
can't, and you will kill yourself in getting
down ! "

I shall try," said Jenny, and she
attempted to get through, but could not
pass the narrow opening of the old window
and Mary dragged her back again.

I shall call out, Spilled ; we can't stay
here for ever ! '

Indeed you won't, Miss Mary ; I shall
break a way through the ceiling first !
We shall have to wait until they are all

gone to bed, and break the lock off the
door with the poker ; there is no one at
this side of the house at night to hear

US.

They then went again into the closet to
make another trial, but the fastening of the
door defied all their efforts, and they
returned to the library and sat down on
the leviathan sofa.

It was very wrong of me to come here,
Spilled. I am well punished — and it's
getting dark every minute. T think we
had better call somebody."

u We must lie down and hide our faces
until it is gone, Miss Mary ; but now I am
here, I don't feel so afraid of it as I did.
I will never let you call out till we have
tried everything ! "

Let us go inside the closet again,
Spilled, and pull the door to."

ii. 39—3

Spilled assented most willingly, notwithstanding
her vaunted courage, and they
started up to go to the closet.

Bring the light," said Mary; and her
maid returned and fetched it off the table.
As soon as they were inside, they dragged
the outer door again into its place and
heard a slight click ; they were then going
to seat themselves on the floor, when they
saw the inner door gently opening itself
as before.

We are saved ! " cried Spilled. " Was
there ever anything like this old house !
I remember now hearing father say, long
ago when I was a girl, that one of the doors
had to be shut to get through the secret
passage in the library ! It's some spring
clockwork, Miss Mary. Father has got a
little box that came from Ixstead, when
you shut one side the other opens."

They passed through and closed the
door ; again there was a slight click.

Do you think that has opened the
other door, Miss Mary ? "

No, I don't think so ; that has to be
moved back first."

We must risk it, it doesn't much matter.
The Colonel will think it's the wind, or the
rats, or something, if he happens to come
up. I do not think he will come here,
as he does not suspect anything."

They returned upstairs. Mary looked
very white and sad. She began to think
she could never sleep there again another
night.

You must sleep in my bed, Miss Mary,
and I shall sleep here. They won't
venture inside my room, I know."

But they might come to the door, and
they would know my voice. No, dear

Jenny, you must sleep with me ; there is
plenty of room for us both."

Plenty, Miss Mary ! it's a famous old
bed, and I'll tell you what I have thought
of — I mean to make that old white dress
of yours exactly like the one in the picture,
and then, if you put a red flower in your
hair, I'll engage if you meet anybody they
won't stop long to speak to you ; all you
have got to do is to walk like this " — and
she imitated a ghostly step she had seen at
a theatre — " look hard at them, and pass on
quick."

At night, when all was quiet, Mary
descended to Spilled's room, but the two
friends lay awake for a long time discussing
again the writing on the window.

It had made a strong impression on
Mary, which deepened on further reflection.
Like most of the Doddingsteads, she was

highly superstitious. She had been brought
up in an atmosphere of ghosts, and her
imaginative nature placed an exaggerated
importance on their power for good and
evil. Healthy girl as she was in other
respects, she was nevertheless haunted at
times with a dread that she should die
young like her father and mother.

She now declared to her astonished
friend Jenny, that, even if her grandfather
gave his consent, she would not marry
Captain Wyldeman unless he passed the
ordeal in the library successfully by
Richard Doddingstead appearing to both
of them ; that perhaps her grandfather's
instincts were right, and that she was only
acting wickedly after all and trying to
tempt Providence.

Jenny stoutly combated these new
scruples ; but as Mary held with tenacity to

her resolution, she did not then press the
matter any further. She thought that if
the Colonel could only be brought to give
his consent, love would triumph over the
rest.

End OF VOL. II.

Printed BY WILLIAM Closes U*D s,i\s. IIMITI'P,

LOKJKJN AND BhXCLES. &* //.

3 0112 047664013

U N Diversity
Of alli Noise

K589w
v.3

A Romance FOB QUIET PEOPLE.

"II faudrait avoir le courage de ne se preoccupied ni des success du
salon ni de opinion de la presse, ni de l'eventualite des recompenses, et
ne s'inquieter que de se contenter soi-meme." — Alfred, Stephens, Impressions
sur la Peinture.

Wholesomeness is the salt of life." — Spanish Proverb.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND BON,

IJubltsfjcrs in ©rturtarg to pjcr fHajcstg tfjc Chteen.

1887.

(All rights reserved.)

v. 3

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. The Heroine takes to Novel-reading,
and Mrs. Jenkins is going
to be married . . 1

II. Jenny Spilled is put to Confession 23
III. Captain Huntingcroft digs for himself
Two more Pitfalls . 32
IY. The Midnight Adventures of the

Hon. Dick . . 43

Y. The Tortoise-shell Comb . 64

VI. The Colonel threatens to box his

Housekeeper's Ears . 76

VII. Ugly Bob . . . 84

VIII. Jenny dares to disbelieve in the

Great Sir George Goodman 96

IX. A Love Scene and a Short Medical

Treatise . . . 108

CHAPTER PAGE

X. The New Ally . . 120

XI. The Hero enters Whitepatch by

the Front Door . . 134

XII. Our Heroine is driven by Fate oh

New Dangers . . 153

XIII. The Colonel is made Happy . 167

XIV. Mary in the Coils of the Unknown 184
XV. The Colonel finds his Opinion is

much sought after . . 196

XVI. The Wedding Guests . 212

XVII. Jenny Spilled's Dance . . 223

XVIII. Trial by Ghost . . 237

XIX. The First of June . . 202

Conclusion . . 284

CHAPTER I.

THE HEROINE TAKES TO NOVEL READING,
AND MRS. JENKINS IS GOING TO BE
MARRIED.

The letter from Harrison, which the

Colonel conveyed to Spilled, contained

various instructions. Among them was

the medical treatment of the Colonel and

Mary — the medicines would be found in a

drawer in his room. The Colonel was to

have belladonna and ignatia, a dose of

each put together in the bottom of his

teacup every morning (this Harrison had

read in one of his books was a great
vol. in. 40

tonic for the nerves of elderly people in
distress). She herself was to take arnica,
if she found herself overworked. Mi
Mary must he amused. She must fetch her
some good novels from Canterbury, and get
her out into the small garden if she could
manage it at night after dark, but she waa
to beware most of Nancy ; Mrs. Jenkins
was only a fool. If Miss Mary got very
low, she was to make her drink a little
champagne. She, Spilled, was to write to
him as often as she could. He should expect
the letter for the Colonel. If it wasn't
written, it must be directly. She was to
see that John didn't drink too much beer.

Mary was reassured a little by her
grandfather's quiet return, and was kept
well informed as time went on of the
efforts that were beinG: made to find her.
She was alarmed lest the detective should

come down ; but Spilled had no fear of
that. If he did come he wouldn't find
anything. Real detectives were very
different from detectives in novels. And
if he did find anything — well, she wasn't
a woman if she couldn't get round him !
She should bring him up to see Miss
Mary, and he would never be able to resist
her. He would only think it was a good
joke and go away laughing.

Mary had some talent for painting interiors,
and she had made some charming
studies of the old house. Spilled persuaded
her to begin one of the Priest's
rooms ; but she could not shake off her
sadness or reconcile herself to the doubtful
propriety of her conduct, which clashed
with her straightforward nature now that
her anger had calmed down ; and she could
not see how her grandfather was to be

brought round. Spilled was confident
that he would be. " The only way to
bend obstinate people was to soak them
well in hot water like other tough things,
and lie hadn't had half enough of it yet ! '
She exerted herself to the utmost to cheer
her prisoner.

You must read some amusing stories,
Miss Mary. Mrs. Jenkins subscribes regularly
to Mr. Will's library, and is always
having over a box of novels, and I am
quite certain your aunt reads every one
of them ; but she will hardly speak to me
now, and I am not going to ask her for
any again. I shall go over to Canterbury
and get some for myself, and you can read
them, too, Miss Mary."

Poor grandpa ! what would he think
of me if he knew, Spilled ? '

"That's all moonshine, Miss Mary ; you

are not a child now. I don't believe
there's another young lady in all Kent
that doesn't read novels, and the parson's
daughters most of any."

"But are they not rather wicked, Jenny ?"
Not at all, Miss Mary !— if they don't
make one idle and lazy. It's only like
eating stuff that doesn't feed you very
much — you can't live upon them — though
some do till they get so lazy they can't
sit up without an armchair. Some of the
old ones up in the library are very wicked,
I know, because Mrs. Jenkins stole the
Colonel's key when he and father stayed
up in London about your mare ; but when
she and Miss Doddingstead began to read
them together, your aunt made her take
them back directly. Mrs. Jenkins told
Mrs. Harrison, and she told me."

Does grandpa read novels, Spilled ? '

Of course he does, Miss Mary — all the

old ones. He has always got one of them
in his room, mostly Walter Scott's; and
I believe Nancy reads them when she ie
doing the room in the morning ; but tl
Colonel never thinks anything that's old
can be wrong. Old books are classics, you
know ; besides, he is an old gentleman,
and they won't do him any harm. Anyone
may read Walter Scott."

Mary looked very much astonished; but
it was news to her that her grandfather
read novels at all.

And the new ones, Spilled ? '

Oh, any one can read them, Miss Mary.
The French girls at Madame de Gros'a
wouldn't look at them because they are
not wicked enough. Mademoiselle Julie
used to say they were ' toe goody-goody."

Mary's conscience was much appeased

by hearing that her grandfather read
novels, and she said she would not mind
reading one.

Spilled went over to Canterbury, and
brought her " Ivanhoe," " Mansfield Park,"
Vanity Fair," " Pickwick," and " Jane
Eyre ; " and Mary, once fairly launched in
the delightful wickedness of novel reading,
gave herself up to it with all the ardour of
novel-denied eighteen.

The arrival of the Hon. Dick caused her
some amusement; and Spilled informed her
of his invasion of the little garden, and
how she had stood to have her portrait
painted for her. But she did not think it
necessary to inform her young mistress
that she had refused a future coronet which
might have been her own if she had so
wished.

Public curiosity about Mary subsided on

the knowledge that she had become a nun
or "something of that sort," and hardly
any one now made an excuse to come up to
Mary's rooms as they had done at first.
But Spilled did not relax her precautions,
as she knew she had watchful enemies in
the house. Mary, however, went down
after dark for a turn in her little garden
every evening, but Spilled insisted on the
white dress, and she kept a warm cloak and
hat for her in the summer house.

One evening Jenkins rushed on her fate.
This virgin had long given her by no
means virgin heart to Spilled's father, who
was still a remarkably £00 d-looki 112: man.

J CD O

and, as fair men often do, looked young for
his age ; but with many sighs she had to
confess to herself that " she must pine in
secret," as, be as coaxing as she would,
Mr. Spilled did not seem in the least
moved towards her."

One evening Mr. Spilled came in to look
for his daughter. He seldom came to the
house ; he preferred keeping to himself,
and had little sympathy with " servants'
gossip." But his daughter had not yet
come down to tea, and Eliza invited him
to have a cup in the housekeeper's room.
He accepted. Still his daughter did not
appear. But, thorough gentleman as he
was at heart, he made himself very gracious
and agreeable to Jenkins in consequence of
the public snub she had received in his
daughter's favour. He stayed on and on,
and the virgin's heart bounded with renewed
hope. She would put her pride in
her pocket and do the right thing, and go
up and tell Mrs. Spilled that her father
was waiting to see her.

She then took a candle and went by the
back stairs up to the passage that led to

Mary's staircase. Mary that evening, alison
as it was dark, went down to the
garden, and left Spilled busy at work in
the Priest's rooms. But she was deep in
Ivanhoe," and after a few hasty turns she
returned again to see what would happen
to Rebecca in the castle of Front de Boeuf.
She took off her jacket and hat as usual,
and went up the stairs and through the
door into her little hall. She was standing
quietly at the door of the closet, and feeling
in her pocket for her matches and piece of
wax-candle, by which she lighted herself
through the passages, when Jenkins came
towards her with a lighted candle in her
hand. Mary preserved her presence of
mind, looked full at her, and advanced
slowly as Spilled had directed. Jenkii
did not stop an instant. She gave a loud
scream, bolted to the stairs, rushed down

again to the housekeeper's room, and
threw herself into the arms of the astonished
Mr. Spilled. He deposited his fair burden
as soon as he could on a chair, and Eliza
fanned her and made her drink a little lea.
As soon as Jenkins could recover her
speech, she exclaimed —

Oh ! I have seen her, Mr. Spilled ! I
have seen her ; and that means I am to be
married ! ' And she cast famished looks of
love on the unfortunate Spilled, who was
greatly at a loss to know " what had
happened to the old fool."

She then described the maiden as she
had heard her described before, and how
she looked at me exactly as Miss Mary
looks." Spilled became very thoughtful,
and shortly after took his leave. He vowed
as he walked to the stable he " would never
make himself agreeable again to such an

inflammable old idiot ; " but he had also a
half suspicion that Miss Mary was somewhere
about the house after all.

Spilled was greatly amused at Mary's
adventure > and still more so when she
heard Eliza's account of what had happened
below stairs ; but she thought none of the
other maids would venture up there after
dark again, " though there was no saying ;
some women would cut off their heads to
get married."

The time passed rapidly, and though
Mary had an occasional breakdown, Spilled,
with the assistance of the novels, got her
through the ordeal without serious detriment.
The black ring-tailed monkey
arrived, but Mary would not take to it, nor
even troubled herself to see it more than
once, though it had a beautiful jet-black
coat and a remarkable tail. Spilled had to

keep it in the rooms downstairs, where the
poor little brute, who was also an accomplished
artist, passed a very melancholy
time separated from his troupe and the
gay life to which he had been accustomed.
She also neglected her painting, and it was
nothing but novels, novels, from morning
till late at night ; till even Spilled wondered
at the transformation she had created, and
had to be very active to keep her well
supplied.

Mary admired Miss Austen. Her artist's
nature appreciated very soon the finish and
the quiet greatness of that authoress so
often strangely hid from even cultivated
and intelligent people. Spilled thought
her slow and not romantic enough ; and a
brisk discussion arose between these amateur
critics, which had its points of view nevertheless.


Mary had been allowed to read reviews
of the best kind, and for years she had
been forming in her mind her own judgment
and theory of what a novel ought
to be.

Spilled also read reviews, but she had
the advantage of also reading the books
themselves, and it was highly to her credit
that she had never tempted Mary to read
any novels before.

No, Spilled, I don't think she is slow
at all ; but she doesn't splash up, as you
say, and I am sure she is perfectly true
to everyday life. Then, she creates characters
that you will remember as if they
were people, you know ; and only real
genius does that, they say."

"Yes, but that's just it, Miss Mary ; one
doesn't want everyday life, however well it
may be told. One can see that for one's self.

I am sure most people like to feel when
the j are reading a novel as if they were at
a theatre, — they don't want anything real,
and as tiresome as a rule-of-three sum,
because it must be exact."

But it is not good art, Spilled, to make
things upside down and impossible — like a
monkey with his tail growing out of his
mouth."

Well, but that's amusing to see. Who
cares for a monkey with his tail in the
right place, except it's you, Miss Mary ?
Novels are like monkeys, after all — they
are only made for our amusement ; and one
gets tired of always the same thing. They
meet, they fall in love, and then they die,
or live happy for ever over a cradle and
a pipe of tobacco ! "

That is a very low view to take,
Jenny. Art is founded on great principles

of truth to nature, that must be
obeyed even more than the laws of the
country."

Ah well, Miss Mary, I don't think most
people trouble themselves about that, however
much they may pretend to. Most
people want to be interested and amused,
and forget their quarrel with Mrs. Brown,
and their bill to Mr. Smith ; and as long a-
they get that they are content to leave the
rest to the critics — and a nice time they
must have of it I should think, trying to
set people to rights ! It's as bad as being
housekeeper ; people would rather anything
than be set to rights."

Miss Van Tromp says the critics in
these days are mostly highly educated
gentlemen, and very fair compared to what
they used to be ; and they have to work
much harder too, as they are like men who

have to go on building up a great wall to
keep back a deluge."

Oh, I have no fault to find with the
critics, Miss Mary, except that they are too
fond of making a fuss over little things
that don't interest any one but themselves''

And I like Sir Walter Scott''

So do I, Miss Mary ; there is a lot of
go about him, he writes like a man, and a
man that sees things big. The novels I
can't bear are those where they spend two
chapters in finicking about, and telling you
what one person thought about nothing in
particular, and what some one else didn't
think about at all ; and then you move on
a little bit and begin finicking again."

I think I should rather like that,
Spilled."

Well, Miss Mary, some people like
to live on slops, particularly if they are

y VOL. III. 41

nicely cooked up ! I don't. But of course
tastes differ as much as jellies and roast
mutton."

u What do you think of ' Jane Eyre ? '
Have you read it, Spilled ? "

Years ago, Miss Mary ! Father bought
it. I think it's splendid ! What do you
think ? "

"I am not quite sure that I really like it.
I expect it's more a man's book ; and then
I can't help thinking it's a little ill-natured.
Miss Yan Tromp says the really great
geniuses are never ill-natured, though they
are sometimes cruel ; I suppose, though, it's
what they call intense — and all the great
poets are that. Dante is tremendous ; he
makes you feel as if you were being carried
down into the infernal regions with him,
particularly when you read him in the
Italian''

I shall read Dante, Miss Mary. I
should rather like being carried down therefor
a short time, if it was only to see the
sort of people who are there — one never
knows. I expect we shall be nicely surprised
when we go to one place or the
other some fine day ! "

Mary smiled gently at the idea of her
practical maid reading Dante.

I think you had better recommend it to
Jenkins ! "

< 'Why, Miss Mary?"

Mary smiled again, but did not give any
reason.

And ' Adam Bede ' ? "

"Oh, that's delightful ! And Mrs. Poyser!
I know her by heart. Father always says
I am imitating Mrs. Poyser when I say
sharp things ; perhaps I do, and perhaps
I don't — I can't say. Things come into

my head when I am talking, and they rim
away with me."

I don't think I quite like ' Adam Bede,'
either. I expect that's another man's book ;
and I suppose when the men say we must
think a book good, we must ; but they can't
make us like it — that is quite different. I
know she is a great genius and all that,
hut there is a something — I can't explain
what it is exactly — something that a
woman would feel and a man would not,
and that I don't find either in Sir Walter
Scott or Dickens nor in Miss Austen. And
yet I suppose clever men must like her."

I think I know what you mean, Miss
Mary. She is like a woman in man's
clothes. Men like that, but we don't ; but
I must get you ' Silas Marner,' that's perfect.
I must go now, Miss Mary, or there
will be something wrong ; the Colonel has

got so fidgety about his dinner, Eliza is in
despair. It's harder work housekeeping
than you'd think," said Jenny, turning
back again, " and I haven't yet made them
quite forget that I was only your maid ;
but they are very nice to me considering
all things, except Mrs. Jenkins, and now
she is worse than ever, as father gets out
of her way as if she had got the plague.
But she told Eliza that she was sure she
was going to be married soon, come what
may ; and she will be sighing and throwing
her lobster eyes at Mr. Harrison when
he comes back now. She hasn't any chance
there ! I know who will be the next
Mrs. Harrison, and that's Eliza. She's
taking his little medicines all day, and they
will suit each other very well too, as Eliza
is the same as Mrs. Harrison — she likes
being ordered about by a man, and they

will make a fine couple. For, although
she isn't exactly handsome, she has got a
very pleasant, comfortable sort of a face,
and what men think so much of — a fine big
figure. Eliza is clever, too, in her way ;
and I should not be the least surprised if
Mr. Harrison won't be wanting to make
her housekeeper some day. Well, I don't
care, it takes up a lot of time. I am getting
into rags, and I was just as happy quiet
up here with you, Miss Mary. I don't think
lather would mind either. I know what he
would like, and that's to have me come and
take care of him. And when you marry,
that might be — you wouldn't miss me much
then ; so I give you three months' warning
on the spot, ma'am ! " And she made a
grand curtsy and ran off, leaving .Mary
to u The Antiquary," a good fire, and the
delightful sense of no one being able to
disturb her.

CHAPTER II.

JENNY SPILLETT IS PUT TO CONFESSION.

On the afternoon on which the Colonel
heard of the death of Sir John Wyldeman,
Jenny ran up to her young mistress with
a high colour in her face to relate the
following news.

Captain Huntingcroft had arrived unexpectedly
from town, and had been out to
see her father. " He says that some great
lawyer in London has told him that father
can recover the whole of the property at
Ixstead and Shrimpgate, if he goes to law
about it. Father says he doesn't believe it.
Captain Huntingcroft wanted to know if

he had any papers, and he got down his
old chest out of the hay-loft, and they
turned over all the papers in it, but they
couldn't make much out of them. Captain
Huntingcroft is going to take them up to
London for the lawyers to see. Father
says Captain Huntingcroft wanted to buy
Ixstead, and that when his lawyers came to
look at the deeds they declared there was
something wrong, and that the Levys had
no real right to the property."

That is wonderful news, Jenny ! I do
hope it is true. — But what does Captain
Huntingcroft want to buy Ixstead for ? !

Jenny made no answer, and her face
became a vivid scarlet.

A sudden suspicion darted into Mary's
head.

Jenny, it has something to do with
you. Why do you remain silent?'

Jenny still made no answer.

Is Captain Huntingcroft the gentleman
in the Guards you used to meet in
London ? ' continued Mary, still further
light breaking in upon her.

Jenny busied herself about the room,
but made no reply. She knew Mary's
great delicacy of feeling, and trusted she
would not press the question home.

But Mary's suspicions were more and
more confirmed ; her interest also was
highly excited, and her strong sense of
friendliness resented what she thought a
poor return for her own openness with her
old friend and companion.

Jenny," she said, starting up with a
little flash of fire in her soft eyes, and
taking hold of her two hands, " sit
down and tell me the truth directly ! '

The two young women sat down together

on the bed, Mary still holding her friend's
hands, and looking earnestly at her.

Oh, Miss Mary," she said, tears coming
into her eyes, " you are very good tome,
but you have trouble enough of your
own ! Why should I burden you with
mine — when it can be of no use ? '

No use ! I do not understand. What
do you mean ? "

I mean it can never come to anything."

What can never come to anything ? '
said Mary, determined that Jenny should
make her own avowal.

After a few moments' silence and a hard
struggle with herself, Mary still searching
her with her eyes, Jenny said, in a low
voice —

Between Captain Iluntingcroft and

me.

Then it was Captain Iluntingcroft you

knew in London ! " cried Mary, releasing
Jenny's hands and sitting a little further
from her, that she might have a better
survey of the culprit.

Yes," said Jenny softly, avoiding her
friend's searching eyes.

11 Then why did you not tell me that
before ? "

Jenny remained silent.

Jenny ! " cried Mary, with an impatient
stamp of her foot.

et Because, dear Miss Mary," she replied,
driven at last to extremities, " I am
certain at one time he wanted to marry
you."

What nonsense ! What absurd jealousy
and nonsense ! I am sure such a tiling
never entered his head. But that shows
me you are fond of him, Jenny. It is
better to tell me the whole truth."

Well, Miss Mar j, when I knew him
in London, I knew he was a little fond
of nie, and wanted to do all sorts of things ;

but that of course I And then, when

he came down here after the ball, I know
quite well he took a fancy to you '

It was no such thing, Jenny. He
came entirely to help his friend ! "

I know better, dear Miss Mary," replied
Jenny, with a sad look. " I watched
you together several times out of the
window, and I know his ways so well ! '

It is not true ! it is not true ! It is
your absurd jealousy. I am certain I
should have known if — if he had been
feeling anything in that way."

Jenny smiled sadly. " You were thinking
too much of your own affairs to notice
it, Miss Mary."

Mary reflected a moment that the Hon.

Dick's manner had certainly changed
towards her latterly, but she kept the
reflection to herself.

"Well, then, what has happened?' she
continued presently.

Jenny after a pause said —

He has offered to marry me."

W r ell ? " said Mary, with a charming
glance of friendly interest.

And — I refused him."

Refused him ! He is the kindest and
best of men ! Pray what fine notion have
you got in your head, that you should
refuse Captain Huntingcroft, when you
know that you care for him, and he pays
you such an honour ? ' said this ardent
young Radical.

That is just it, Miss Mary. I am
afraid I do care for him too much."
And she gave her young mistress an

account of her interviews with the Hon.
Dick, and the reasons for her refusing
him, with which the reader is already
acquainted.

It is all pride, Jenny ; and you and
your father are only fit to live in a cave
and be fed by ravens ! " remarked Mary.

Indeed, Miss Mary, it is not that ;
though there may be a little of it. I love
him too well to drag him down by marrying
a servant, and I love him too well to
be happy if he should not always remain
constant. I am quite sure there is no
misery a woman can tumble into like that
of marrying a man she is really fond of who
is not always true to her. I would rather
be a drudge all my life in a back kitchen !
It is not hardship or poverty that kills a
woman — it is having her love turned back
upon her like a poison ! I see and observe

more than most people, and I am certain
that in marriage women get the worst of
it. If she is fortunate, she is the happiest
of women; if not — oh, God ! she is the
most miserable ! The woman, if she
respects herself, cant speak, can do nothing I
A man, he can go off and find what he
wants elsewhere."

She spoke with such earnest energy, that
Mary remained silent. She took her in her
arms, and the strong Jenny laid her fair
head on her friend's tender young bosom
and sobbed like a child.

CHAPTER III.

CAPTAIN HUNTINGCROFT DIGS FOR Himself
TWO MORE PITFALLS.

That evening after dinner over their wine
the Colonel and the Hon. Dick fell into
serious conversation on several matters.

First, they discussed again more fully
the affairs of John Spilled. The Colonel
was somewhat incredulous. Dick maintained
that his father's solicitors, Heavy and
Young, were first-rate people, and did not
discover mares' nests ; and they were certain
that the sale of the Ixstead property to
the Levys had been the act of an idiot or a
madman. The price given was out of all

proportion to the value of the property ;
it was strictly entailed, and there was no
deed whatever to show that the entail had
been been cut off. The heirs must have
been strangely careless also not to have
discovered it at once. He had told them
what he had heard from the Colonel, of
John Spilled's grandfather dying in a
madhouse, and of his wild life previously.
Heavy and Young thought that would be
sufficient, if it could be proved by letters
or documents of the time, and the neglect
of the lawful heirs to make their claim
could be accounted for. That was the
weak point.

But Spilled has no money to go to law
with," said the Colonel.

Our solicitors say, Colonel, that they
do not think it will be necessary to go to
law. The case of illegal purchase is so

vol. in. 42

clear that the Levys will be glad to compromise
the matter on almost any terms ;
and the present man in possession is the
son only of the original purchaser. Our
men say that it is known to this day
that the solicitors who managed the transaction
were noted disreputable firms and
money-lenders on both sides, and that they
must have connived together to take
advantage of the vendor's weakness of
mind."

It appears to me," remarked the Colonel,
that the failure of Tom Spilled, our John's
father, to claim his rights, will go greatly
against them."

I mentioned that to Spilled to-day,"
replied the Hon. Dick, " but he says his
father was nearly as mad and careless as
his grandfather."

Yes, indeed ! " said the Colonel ; M and I

can prove that for one. That will make
all the difference, and it may not be too
late for Spilled to make his claim even
now."

I am sure my father will back me up
in the matter, whatever happens," said
Dick ; " and we must make John Spilled
move in the case, if only for his daughter's
sake."

Certainly," replied the Colonel, becoming
more convinced of John Spilled's
chances. " But the Spilletts are my
relations, and I think, Captain Hunting-croft,
I am the person who ought to assist
him."

Such an opportunity to confide to the
Colonel his love affair, and his reasons for
wishing to assist the Spilletts, was not to
be resisted by the impulsive Dick Hunting-croft.


But I have a reason, also, Colonel, for
wishing to help them." And he proceeded
to relate to the astonished old gentleman
the story of his love for Jenny, and the
consent his father had-given to the
marriage.

And she has refused you after that !
said the Colonel. " Impossible ! She is
only playing with you and acting from
a spirit of contradiction. She is just the
girl for that. If we can restore her father,
she cannot refuse you. I know women too
well. You have only to persevere."

The Hon. Dick shook his head sadly.

I fear, sir, you do not know her as well
as I do. She is such a firm girl, nothing
will turn her when she has once made up
her mind."

14 Firm ! obstinate, you mean ! I think it
is great presumption on her part to refuse

such an offer ! ' continued the Colonel,
with much energy. " That must be seen
to." And he rashly formed a project in
his mind, the result of which will be afterwards
related.

There is no necessity for you return to
town immediately," he presently continued.
The lawyers will not hurry themselves,
you may be certain."

The Hon. Dick was only too ready to be
persuaded to prolong his visit a little, and
the two friends went on smoking in silence.

"It is very extraordinary where my
granddaughter can be," remarked the
Colonel at length.

This roused the Hon. Dick to think of
his friend's affair, and of his intention to see
if anything could be done to move the
Colonel, now that Sir John Wyldeman was
dead.

Very extraordinary," he replied, hiding
a smile. " You know that Sir John is
dead ? "

Yes," replied the Colonel ; " but that
makes no difference. I am more determined
against the marriage than ever ! '

You must pardon me, Colonel, but I
think it does."

How so ? ' he said, turning sharply
upon him.

Well, sir, the man you object to is
dead, and it appears to me hardly fair '

Captain Huntingcroft," broke in the
Colonel hotly, " you must allow me to bethe
best judge of that. I object to the
whole family and their principles in every
way. My family shall never be allied to
the Wyldemans with my consent. Besides,"
he continued, quieting down a little, " the
girl is only eighteen, and I dislike early

marriages. As I said before, I wish her
to see the world a little closer and judge
for herself. She is as ignorant of life asa
baby ; she only sees things at present
through her girlish imagination. If I
could only find her, I should take her abroad
directly." He stood up and refilled his
pipe with a sad and thoughtful expression.

The Hon. Dick knew from experience
that it was useless to press the matter any
further at present, and he quickly turned
the conversation.

His curiosity to know exactly where
Mary was concealed had been much excited
since his arrival in the old house, notwithstanding
the pressure of his own affairs ;
and he now proceeded somewhat incautiously
to remark on the house and its
secret hiding-places.

Although this was a subject on which

the Colonel was rarely very communicative,
yet, as his young friend had received h
snubbing with a good grace, and was
disposed to let the question of Mary drop,
he graciously entered into the peculiar
construction of the house ; he even
described the library, and the room above,
with its masked window, on the roof.

The Hon. Dick was greatly interested,
and guessed at once that Mary was there.

You shall see them, if you like," said
the Colonel, in a remarkable fit of condescension.


Oh, you are very kind, Colonel ! ' replied
Dick, much alarmed; "but I should be
giving you too much trouble. Some future
day — whenyou are going up there yourself''

Not at all," said the Colonel. " I have
to go into the library tomorrow, and I
intended to go up to the rooms above, for

when I was in the library the other day,
I thought I heard a noise overhead like
the banging of a window. That heavy
gale we had a short time ago, I expect, has
blown one of the casements open. I will
take you up there tomorrow morning the
first thing after breakfast."

The Colonel was always ready for immediate
action.

Dick grew white with anxiety. Mary
would be discovered, and, worst of all, she
and Jenny would think he had betrayed
their secret.

Yery good," he replied faintly ; and as
the Colonel stood up to delight his pipe,
which was perpetually going out, he
thought intently on what he should do.
The Colonel would certainly visit the
secret rooms now he had got the idea
into his head, even if he went alone. He

must make a desperate effort to communicate
with Jenny and warn her at once.

After a little further conversation, the
two gentlemen retired to the drawing-room.

Before they went in to prayers, Dick went
to a side table and wrote a hasty note to
Jenny, trusting to find a chance of giving
it to her. But, alas ! the perverse young
housekeeper did not appear at this state
gathering.

During the brief time that he was on
his knees, he settled his plan of action.
He thought it too dangerous to send her
the note by another servant. It might also
lead to gossip, and be compromising to her.
He decided that when the rest were e;one
to bed, he would go to the door of her
room — as he had a tolerably clear notion
of its whereabouts — and wain her of the
Colonel's intention.

CHAPTER IT.

THE Midnight ADVENTURES OF THE

HON. DICK.

As soon as the house was quiet, Dick stole
out of his room with a lighted candle and
listened. Everything was so still, he
could hear the clocks ticking in the hall
below (he occupied the Quixote room),
and a dog howling in the far-off stables.

He had put on his slippers, and he now
made softly for the passage leading to
the Children's Garden. The oak door at
the top of the stairs creaked horribly as he
opened it, and he glanced up at the picture

of the maiden, half expecting her to comedown
out of her frame.

On arriving at the door of Mary's
sitting-room, he knocked gently several
times, but receiving no answer, he entered.
There was no one there excepting Solomon,
fast asleep in his cage, resting on one leg.
He then knocked several times at the door
of Mary's bedroom, but again receiving no
answer, he peeped in. There was no one
there either, and he entered that also.
Once more he knocked at the door leading
into Jenny's bedroom, and still he could
get no reply. After a little hesitation, he
opened it gently a little way and called
Jenny by name. Receiving no answer, he
went a little way into the room. Yes,
that was his dear girl's room, and he saw
several of her well-known dresses haD&rins
up. He glanced at the bed timidly, fearing

to profane his divinity ; but that had
evidently not been occupied. He then
discreetly retired, thinking in his heart how
he loved her, and, returning to Mary's
sitting-room, he paused for a moment to
consider what he should do. Jenny, then,
must be sleeping with Mary in the secret
rooms. How could he possibly get at
her ? The Colonel had told him the way
to the Priest's rooms was through the
library, perhaps he might find it.

On arriving at the library door, he found
it securely locked. He began to be in
despair, when suddenly he remembered
the stairs to the roof, which Mary had
pointed out to him several times as sacred
to her grandfather. He decided he would
go on the roof, and endeavour to find the
window mentioned by the Colonel. He
knew the Priest's rooms were immediately

over the library, and he tried to form a
plan of the house in his head.

He now went to the door on the east
stairs that has been before mentioned, and
finding it unlocked, he mounted to the
clock tower. Placing his light in a secure
position, he stepped boldly down on to the
roof, and proceeded to explore.

It was a clear starlight night, and he
could just distinguish objects. The position
of the clock tower, which he could distinctly
see against the bright stars, served
in some measure as a guide to him. He
moved cautiously forward a little distance
until he came to some flat leads. These
terminated in a huge stack of chimneys.
He decided from his position that the
window he was in quest of must be somewhere
on the other side of the chimneys.
He crept round them, and found himself

on the edge of a roof, with a dark blank
space beneath him. On glancing along
the edge, he caught sight of a small gleam
of light at about a dozen yards' distance on
his left, and in a retired out of the way
corner. He could just see the outline of a
gable window above the speck of light.
That must be the window ! ' he thought.
But how was he to get to it ? "

The only way that he could discover
was to pass along the narrow stone coping
at the edge of the roof — a dangerous
experiment to an unpractised hand in the
dark.

The Hon. Dick was well-known to his
friends to be as brave as a Turk, but this
was a danger that had the terror of darkness
and the unknown. He stooped down
and examined the edge of the roof and
the coping with his hand. The roof was

very steep, and between it and the stone
coping, there was a narrow gutter into
which the tiles projected in an irregular
manner, but they came so close to the
stonework, and were so unequal, he
thought it would be more dangerous to
attempt to pass there than along the coping
itself. The window was too far off for him
to attract the attention of Mary and Jenny,
by calling out, without danger of alarming
the house. He searched in the gutter to
see if he could find any loose stones which
he might throw ; he could not find one.
He felt in his pocket, but there was nothing
there but his cio*ar-case. He then decided
he would throw that. He took good
aim, but it only hit the gable, and bounding
off, he heard it fall with a sharp thud
on the ground a long way beneath his
feet. To reach the window he was determined

; and collecting his presence of mind,
he fixed his eyes steadily on the spark of
light directly in front of him, and walked
swiftly along the coping until he reached
another roof. This projected at right
angles from the one he had skirted. He
now found himself able to get to the
window he sought without difficulty.

He put his ear to the window, and
distinctly heard soft voices, and even
laughter within. Then he heard a sudden
exclamation and a laugh in the well-known
clear tones of Jenny, and he knew that he
had found them.

Tapping gently at the window, he waited
a few moments. There was a dead silence
as the Great Bear caught his eye. Then
he tapped again more decidedly. Someone
came behind the shutter and called out
in an alarmed voice, " Who's there ? "

VOL. IN. 43

Open the window, Jenny," he said
softly. " It is I, Captain Huntingcroft ;
I have something most important to tell
you and Miss Doddingstead."

Jenny at once recognized her lover's
voice. Undoing the shutter, she then
opened the window. Mary was standing
close behind her, in her dressing-gown.

I have come to tell you," he said.
that you are in great danger of being
discovered. The Colonel insists on bringing
me up here tomorrow morning early
to show me the secret rooms. He heard
some window banging when he was in
the room below, and he is coming up cento
see what is the matter. Tt is most
fortunate I have found you ! '

Mary turned very pale, and looked as
if she would faint ; but Jenny's courage
rose with the danger.

"Never mind, Miss Mary! 1 she cried;
we will be ready for him. We must
move everything out into the passage, and
you must hide there until he is gone.
There is plenty of time."

Poor Mary looked a little reassured.

But he will find out we have been
here, Jenny. What shall we do ? ' she
said.

Indeed, Miss Mary, he shall not ! He
isn't half sharp enough. I can make
everything look as it was before. He will
never find out. It is only a matter of a
little work."

It was very kind of you to come, Captain
Huntingcroft," said Mary. " But how did
you manage to get here ? "

I came along the edge of the roof."

Jenny now turned pale.

How could you do such a thing in the

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

dark ! " exclaimed Mary ; " you might have
fallen and killed yourself ! "

Oh, it is nothing," replied Dick ; " anyone
could walk along there."

But you really must not go hack
that way again," declared Mary, who
well knew the danger of the place he had
passed over ; and she glanced at Jenny.
You must come in through the window,
and we can take you back the other
way. "

Oh, now I have done it once, I can
easily do it again," said Dick.

But Mary would not hear of it, and
Jenny gave her a look of assent.

"You would frighten us to death,
Captain Huntingcroft ! Indeed, you must
come in here and pass this way."

The Hon. Dick, receiving this warm encouragement,
was by no means unwilling

to avail himself of such a chance of prolonging
his interview with Jenny.

After a hasty little bustle inside, they
placed a chair, and he stepped into the room.
Dick shook hands cordially with Mary.

How clever of you to hide up here ! "
he said.

But you are as cold as ice, Captain
Huntingcroft ! " exclaimed Mary ; " and you
have nothing on ! "

Dick, in the ardour of his project, had
gone on the roof just as he was in his thin
evening dress, and the night was cold, and
there was a sharp frost.

Mary glanced at Jenny.

You must come and warm yourself by
the fire a minute ; you look quite frozen,"
she said.

The Hon. Dick allowed himself to be
placed in a chair by the good fire which

was still burning brightly, and Mary took
a seat near him.

But how did you know I was up here's
said, with the colour mounting to her
face.

Jenny was busy closing the shutters.

Dick hesitated a moment with Mary's
truthful eyes fixed upon him.

Wyldeman told me on his way to see
his father. You know Sir John is dead ? '

No ! " said Mary ; " we have heard
nothing of it."

But the Colonel knows," continued
Dick ; " you have only to hold out, and he
must give in now."

Poor grandpa ! I have behaved
very wickedly to him. But I could not
bear the idea of being taken abroad for a

long time.

»

I think you have done quite right.

The Colonel is most unjust. He is absurd !
It is nothing but obstinacy, I believe."

How is he ? ' said Mary presently.

Who, Miss Doddingstead ? "

Grandpa," said Mary, with the colour
again mounting to her face.

Oh, much the same as usual. You
need not vex yourself on his account. He
is as tough as nails ! Frank Wyldeman
also looked very well when I saw him," he
added slily. " He swears he will never
give you up, and he is just the fellow to
stick to what he says."

Mary was comforted by these particulars,
and a shy, beautiful smile came into her face
as she arranged her pink dressing-gown.

What a lovely creature she is," thought
the too susceptible Dick. " How do you
manage to pass your time up here ? ' he
said presently.

Jenny is very good to me," she replied
gently.

What a wonderful old place ! ' remarked
Dick, looking round. "It is
awfully jolly hiding here. It is like Robinson
Crusoe. You should have your parrot ! ,;

Jenny, who had disappeared with a light
behind the rug, now came back again.

We must set to work at once, Miss
Mary, and get it done to-night." And she
glanced at Dick to see if he was properly
warmed.

He started up, and said, " Can I help
you in any way ? '

No, thank you, sir," replied Jenny, with
a shade of dryness in her tone. " We can
manage very well by ourselves." And poor
Dick understood he was expected to go.

Then I had better leave you," he said.
But how am I to go ? "

Jenny will show you the way," said
Mary, with a little look of her old mischief.

Her maid glanced at her and prepared
to obey. Dick's thoughtful and heroic conduct
had made a decided impression, and
her stern resolve was beginning to melt a
little — which was quickly observed by the
keen perceptions of Mary.

He then said good night to our heroine,
urging her never to lose courage, and
saying that he would write to her soon
through Jenny, to let her know how
matters were going on. Then he suddenly
exclaimed. " But I have left my light
burning in the clock tower ! "

Jenny hesitated an instant, and glanced
at Mary. " Wait here, sir, for a moment,
and I will go and fetch it for you," she
said, and disappeared behind the rug.

Such an opportunity for another confidence

was not to be resisted by the Hon.
Dick.

Oh, Miss Doddingstead, I must tell
you something. I am desperately in love
with that girl, and I have offered to marry
her, and she has refused me. Do you think
I have any chance with her ? '

Mary smiled. " I did not think so, but
I do now — that you have a little."

Did you know ?" he continued eagerly.

Yes, I made her tell me all about it.
But you must not press her too hard. She
is dreadfully obstinate."

What do you advise me to do ? '

You must be very sad, and put on a
black tie," she said, with a spice of her old
fun. " But," she added seriously, "I am
quite your friend, and I will help you all I
can. She is the truest and most honest girl in
the whole world, if you can only win her."

Oh, thank you ! : he said warmly.
I have told my father, and he has given
his consent."

That makes a great difference ; and
if John Spilled can really get back the
property Hush ! ' said Mary.

Jenny now reappeared with Dick's
candle, which she gravely handed to him.
He said good night once more to Mary,
and followed Jenny into the passage.

As they went along, Dick began to express
his wonder, but his guide with great
promptitude silenced him, and he followed
her without a word. When they reached
Mary's little hall, again he could not resist
an exclamation of astonishment, but Jenny
turned towards him quickly, and put her
finger on her lips.

On arriving at the door of the east stairs,
Dick longed to take her in his arms, but

he thought it would be seizing an unfair
advantage, and he restrained himself. She
opened the door for him to pass through,
and, before he had time to look round, she
had closed it again and disappeared.

As soon as Jenny had returned, the two
young women set to work to carry out
everything which they had brought up
from below into the secret passage leading
to the Children's Garden.

Mary feared that her grandfather would
certainly discover that the place had been
occupied, from the great difference in its
cleanliness. Jenny thought they had not
much to fear from that. The Colonel was
not observant enough in these matters.
A woman might see the place had ben
cleaned, but the Colonel was the last person
in the world to notice it. The only thing
she was really afraid of was the fireplace ;

but she trusted to her ingenuity to hide
the recent use of that also.

What I most fear, after all, Miss Mary,
is that you will be perished with cold
sitting in that passage."

Mary said she would put on her fur
cloak, and it was settled Jenny should get
it out for her.

They were not long in clearing out their
own effects, and then Jenny set to work
at the fireplace. The difficulty was to
know what to do with the burning coals.
Mary thought it would not be safe to throw
water on the grate, it might not get dry intime.
Jenny thought the contrary. " It
might be rain that had come down the
chimney." Mary said there would be time
to clear the grate in the morning. Jenny
declared she should never sleep until all
was right. Finally, they got the burning

ashes out, and Jenny sprinkled some red
tooth-powder, mingled with cinder-dust,
over the ironwork.

I think that looks old and rusty enough
for anything, now, Miss Mary," she said
with great glee.

This young woman was in her element
where there was danger and impromptu
action. She would have made a famous
admiral if she had been a man !

They now placed the furniture belonging
to the room as nearly as possible in the
position in which they had found it, and
dragged the bed into its old place in front
of the opening to the passage.

Jenny thought, as the Colonel had heard
a noise like a window slamming, they had
better leave the one in the large room open
to u throw him off the scent." It would
also " cool the room down again." But

it didn't much matter ; he never noticed
anything very closely — unless it was the
inside of a clock ! "

Having then opened the window and
the shutters, they crept through the lining
at the back of the bed, and went down to
Jenny's room as usual for the night.

Mary was sad in thinking of the
subterfuges she was forced into enacting,
and to which she was only partially reconciled
; but Jenny was in high spirits at
the thought of outwitting the old Colonel,
and from a growing feeling that she might
yet bring herself to reward her lover for
his gallantry and devotion.

CHAPTER Y.

THE TORTOISE-SHELL COMB.

Is that your cigar-case, Huntingcroft ? '
said the Colonel, as he came into the
dining-room the next morning before
prayers, and found the Hon. Dick standing
with his back to the fire. " I picked it up
in the garden this morning."

Yes," said Dick, getting very red in
the face. " I suppose I must have dropped

it.

I was not quite certain," said the
Colonel, " because I thought I saw you
with it in your hand last evening."

At this moment the servants marched

in to prayers, with Jenny at their head.
She had a bright spot on her cheeks, but
otherwise looked as calm and fresh as if
she had lately risen from a long night of
peaceful slumber.

After breakfast the Colonel, ever impatient
to carry out any new project, said,
I shall be quite ready to go up to the
library when you are."

Dick was anxious to give his friends
upstairs as much time as possible.

I will just have a cigar, Colonel, if
you don't mind, and then I shall be at
your service."

Very good — say in half an hour, then."

Dick assented, and went out into the
garden in front of the house. He considered
for a moment whether he should
go on the roof again and try to give them

warning that the Colonel was coming
vol. in. 44

shortly, but "he had such confidence in
Jenny's promptitude and skill, that he
decided it would be better to let matters
alone. He then lighted his cigar, and
strolled round to survey the scene of his
midnight adventures. The window of the
secret rooms had been so artfully placed
that nothing was to be seen of it from the
garden below. He was rather startled,
however, to find what a narrow place he
had passed over in the dark, and that if he
had fallen he would probably have been
impaled on a row of sharp flower-stakes,
which were planted in a bed underneath.

At the appointed time he joined the
Colonel, and they proceeded to the library.

Dick was so silent from anxiety, that the
Colonel was a little disappointed at the
apparent want of interest he showed in
the strange old place.

"I will surprise him yet, though,"
thought the Colonel, and he promptly
seized the mantelpiece and made it
descend into the floor.

Immediately a huge rat bolted out of
the cavity above, and disappeared across
the floor. They tried to find it, but were
unsuccessful.

The confounded brutes ! ' cried the
Colonel. " I thought I had got rid of
them ! I expect now we shall find a whole
colony upstairs."

Dick caught the idea.

That will account for the noises you
heard up there, Colonel."

u y erv likely," he replied. " But I am
sure I heard a window bang also."

When the Colonel had finished his long
history of this famous retreat, the length
of which Dick encouraged — making loud

exclamations of wonder and astonishment,
that his voice might be heard in the rooms
above — they proceeded to open the secret
door leading to the Priest's rooms.

Again Dick's voice rose to the loudest
wonder, and the Colonel, who at first was
a little damped by his want of appreciation,
now became excited also, and as they
opened the inner door and proceeded to
mount the stairs, they made such a clatter
between them that there was little fear of
the enemy not being warned in time.
Indeed, Mary and Jenny, who were
anxiously waiting concealed in the passage
behind the bed, heard such a noise, that
they thought their champion must have
been getting up a sham quarrel with the
Colonel to prevent his coming up ; which
proceeding Jenny thought very unnecessary,
as she keenly enjoyed the danger,

and would have been much disappointed if
the Colonel had not come, after all her
trouble. But poor Mary trembled with
cold and fear, and shame was in her heart.

Here we are," said the Colonel with
some pride, throwing open the door at
the top of the stairs which led into the
famous rooms.

Dick wondered aloud at the rooms, as if
he had never seen them before — in truth,
he was much astonished at the transformation
which had taken place — and plied the
Colonel briskly with questions to call off
his close attention.

The Colonel nevertheless looked about
him. " I thought so," he said, as he went
to the open window. "I must send someone
up here to see to the fastenings."

Dick also went to the window and
then closed it.

"The fastening is all right, Colonel,"
he said, as he secured the window and
gave it a shake.

The Colonel put on his glasses and
examined the hasp. " No," he said, " there
is nothing wrong with that. How very
odd, surely ! The window was properly
fastened the last time I was up here."

What are those rooms in there ?" said
Dick, calling off his attention.

The Colonel then took him into the
little chapel, expatiating at length on the
number of historical personages who were
supposed to have said Mass there.

When they returned to the principal
room, the Colonel said, " It is astonishing
how warm it is up here. But that only
shows how solidly the rooms are built,
and how well those priest fellows knew
how to take care of themselves. There has

not been a fire lighted here for much more
than a hundred years" — glancing at the
grate — "and yet, see how warm and
comfortable the room feels. I would also
have you remark that there is hardly any
dust about — that shows there are no
draughts."

The Hon. Dick was obliged to turn his
head to conceal a smile.

u There is another secret passage out
of this room, that goes down to one of
the gardens," said the Colonel. " I remember
hearing my grandfather say it is
concealed behind that bed, but I have
never searched for it — suppose we pull
the bed out and look ? " he said, w T with a
sudden impulse, incited by Dick's exaggerated
enthusiasm; and he walked
towards the bed.

His companion was in an agony, and

knew not bow to prevent his carrying out
his project.

There is another rat ! 3 cried the
Colonel, as he saw a long dark object on
the floor close under the bed. But the rat
did not move, and the Colonel stooped to
examine it. " What can this be ? ' he
exclaimed, as he picked up a long tortoiseshell
comb, and carried it towards the
light. " Why r , it belongs to Mary ! ' he
exclaimed, as he put on his glasses and saw
her monogram engraved upon it. " How
could it possibly have got here ? '

Perhaps the rats," said Dick in despair.

Not unlikely," replied the Colonel ;
they are great thieves. A rat once
carried off my shaving brush. When
Harrison comes back I must have this
whole place ferreted out. I think I shall
send him orders to return home at once.

He has utterly failed to find Mary, and I
shall have to go myself after all." He
sighed heavily as he thought of his
trouble about her, and, forgetting his intention
of looking for the secret passage,
he put the comb in his breast pocket, and
proposed they should return to the library.

As soon as they were gone, Jenny
popped her fair head through the lining
at the back of the bed — her eyes shining
like diamonds. When the voices had
ceased below, and they heard the outer
library door close, the two young women
crept out of their hiding-place, and before
long had again re-established themselves
in the Priest's rooms.

The fortune-telling section of the believers
in palmistry may certainly here
plume themselves on the truth of a rule
laid down in the most ancient books on

this subject, with regard to the double line
of life, which we have seen Jenny Spilled
had in both her hands — its best form of
manifestation. It is this. Those persons
who have the double line of life in both
hands may engage in any hazardous enterprise,
such as a commander going into
battle, for instance, with safety and
certainty of success.

Now, if Jenny had not left Mary's comb
by a happy oversight on the bed, from
whence it fell to the floor as the two young
women crept over it to escape behind,
the Colonel, in all probability, would have
discovered them.

The rational explanation, however, of
the good fortune of the double line of life,
from the character-reading point of view,
is that it indicates, amongst other qualities,
the highest degree of energy and self-reliance.

Add to this the especial faculty
of rising to circumstances, and of over-morning
difficulties, in proportion to the
talent of its possessor. It cannot be
denied, nevertheless, that it was a very
fortunate circumstance for her, that Jenny
Spill ett let Mary's comb fall on the bed.
But the reader must not necessarily conclude
she will defeat the Colonel in the
end, as he also had the rare double line
of life, and an obstinacy and determination
equal to her own ; and, moreover, he was
the real master of the situation.

The Hon. Dick returned to town again
that evening, taking with him John Spilled's
box of papers. He, however, made
an engagement with the Colonel to comedown
again shortly for a few days' hunting
; in the mean time he would send down
a couple of horses to the Little Sack.

CHAPTER VI.

THE Colonel THREATENS TO BOX HIS

housekeeper's EARS.

The morning after the departure of the
Hon. Dick, the Colonel sat in his room,
thinking of his young friend's doleful face
as he drove off.

That must be put a stop to," he said
to himself ; "the girl is not treating him
with proper respect to keep him dangling
about like this. Of course she means to
marry him in the end." Presently he
started up and rang his bell. " Ask Mrs.
Spilled to come and see me a moment,"
he said, when John came to the door.

Before long, with some wondering at
this unusual summons, Jenny appeared.

Come in and shut the door," he said.

She stood before him with a look of
quiet resolution, prepared to combat what
Harrison called " one of the Colonel's contraries."
She seemed so calm and self-possessed,
he found some difficulty in
knowing how to begin the attack. A
suspicion also now crossed his mind that
his proceeding was somewhat irregular,
and that it was a very delicate matter to
deal with. All the same, he would do his
duty to her and her father, and his friend
Huntingcroft, and not let her lose such a
splendid offer for some romantic nonsense
or silly caprice ; and he plunged at once
into the matter.

Why do you persist in refusing Captain
Huntingcroft?"

Jenny's face became crimson, and she
was taken quite aback. The Colonel
thought he had a culprit before him, and
that he should soon bring her to a sense
of her foolish conduct.

Are you aware of the great honour
he is paying you, and that an offer like
that is not to be treated with girlish
levity ? " he asked a little sternly.

With all respect to you, sir, I think
that is a matter for me to decide," she
answered firmly, her heart again hardened
against her lover by this interference.

"Yes; but not to keep him dangling
about like this. Do you quite appreciate the
high position he will occupy some day ? '

I have not kept him dangling about,
sir; and I trust I quite appreciate his
position in life," she answered with irritating
calmness.

Then what do you mean by treating
him like a swain at a fair ? "

u I have not treated him like a swain at
a fair, sir."

Don't go on contradicting me like that! '

I am not contradicting yon, sir ; I am
only speaking the truth."

But I say that you are, at every word."

But I am not, sir " — obstinacy rousing
obstinacy.

"You are an impertinent young minx,
and forgetting yourself altogether ! '

No ? sir ; I am not an impertinent young
minx, and I am not forgetting myself,"
she said, her anger rising as fast as the
Colonel's, but kept more under command,
and expressed only by a quiet tone and
emphasis that was the more irritating.

Leave the room directly, or I will box
your ears ! "

The Colonel was furious at " such a
young minx' standing up against him,
Colonel Doddingstead, like this.

No, sir ; I am sure you will not forget
yourself to do anything so unbecoming ;
and you will allow me to say, sir, that I
think you have got a wrong notion of the
matter. I am quite sensible of the honour
that has been done me, and of your goodness
in thinking me in any way worthy
of it ; but I never mean to marry any one,
and a woman, sir, is not forced to many,
unless she wishes."

But what possible reason can you have
for not marrying Captain Huntingcroft ? —
a more amiable man never lived," said the
Colonel, quieting down a little, as the stir
of a woman's perfect right to refuse
marriage came upon him with more force
than ever after Mary's escapade.

I have my own reasons, sir, for not
wishing to marry, which I will not trouble
you with. And if you think that I have
been impertinent to you, I am very sorry ;
as I had no wish to be so, and I am sure
you meant to be kind, sir, as you have
always been to poor father and me — and 1
thank you all the same." Tears sprang
into her eyes as she spoke.

Well, well, Jenny, a wilful woman
must have her own way ; but do not throw
overboard such a fine chance from mere
perversity, — that is all I have to say, my
good girl."

Jenny gave him a gracious little curtsy,
with a half-sad smile, and departed master
of the field.

What an extraordinary girl she is ! '
exclaimed the Colonel to himself ; " but
what can be her reason ? Could she have

vol. in. 45

known anything against him when she
knew him in London? But Huntingcroit
is a straight enough fellow on the whole, I
am certain — particularly for an only son.
Women are queer cattle, that is the fact ;
and there is no accounting for them in any
w r ay. But he must persevere; she will
never be able to refuse him in the end."
And the Colonel turned to his table to goon
answering his letters.

Jenny was not at all pleased with her
lover for making a confidant of the Colonel.
She considered this as only another proof
of the impulsiveness of his character, and
his want of self-command. She also hiirhlv
disapproved of his ready disposition to
make confidences, as one of those dan cvrous
weaknesses in a man which lays him open
to the designs and influence of others —
particularly of artful women ; and which

she dreaded — more than ever now — would
make a husband not to be depended on,
however amiable he might be. And, as
she sat hastily stitching in her room, she
decided absolutely and for ever that she
would never marry him, even if it should
break her heart to give him up, — as no
misery was equal to that of a slighted wife
who loves her husband truly.

CHAPTER VII.

UGLY BOB.

Harrison returned shortly to TVhitepatch,
with a small library of the most recent
English and American publications on
homoeopathy, and enough new medicine
to doctor the city of Manchester, much
recovered by his long and interesting
holiday from the blow he had sustained
in the loss of his wife, offering a tempting
prize to be plucked from widowhood by
one or other of the two ladies of the
housekeeper's room — both of whom were
awaiting his return with deep feminine
resolves affecting his liberty.

He and the Colonel then had a long
conversation on the subject of Mary's
retreat, which on one side was an ingenious
determination to throw dust in the Colonel's
eyes and keep him quiet ; and on the
other, a vain beating about the bush,
which resulted only in greater perplexity.

Harrison ended in persuading his master
that Mary was certainly not in one of the
religious institutions, and the Colonel was
at his wits' ends to know in what direction
to look for her, or what to do further in
the matter. He could only comfort himself
with his confidence in her promise,
that she would not marry without his
consent.

Harrison also made a courageous, though
cautious attempt, to induce the Colonel to
give his consent to the marriage, but he
soon found it was hopeless, and that the

old gentleman was more entrenched than
ever in his determination to refuse it.

The conscience of this otherwise faithful
servant was, however, becoming in the end
much troubled, as Miss Mary could not goon
for ever hiding in the Priest's rooms ;
and he felt that the responsibility of
keeping her there was beginning to rest
largely upon himself. He regretted that
he had ever allowed himself to be drawn
into the plot, as he felt that his first duty
was doubtless to his good old master, —
when an event occurred at "NYhitepatch
which brought the chief persons in our
story something else to divert their
thoughts and energies, and ending in a
new development of our heroine's affairs.

The Hon. Dick had sent down his
horses to the Little Sack, and arrived
himself in a few days at the Manor. He

had also written to Mary, under cover to
Jenny, entreating her to arrange another
interview for him with her maid. He also
stated that his lawyers were certain they
could recover John Spilled's property, as
the Levys were unable to produce any
deed cutting off the entail ; that Heavy
and Young had already made a claim on
John Spilled's behalf, and that they had
little doubt they should be able to effect
a compromise in the claimant's favour, as
the Levys made only a lame pretence of
allowing the matter to go into court.

But Jenny remained obdurate, and
posted with her own hands, under cover
of an envelope directed by herself, a letter
from Mary to Dick refusing an interview
on her behalf, and giving him little or no
hope. This letter, however, did not
prevent his coming to Whitepatch. He

was growing desperate, and did not much
care what he did. Neither could he resist
the temptation of being in the same house
with Jenny, and getting the poor consolation
of seeing her sometimes at prayers.

Dick had sent down a horse called
Ugly Bob, a fast and powerful animal, a
showy mount, but a nervous brute in the
field, that his friends had entreated him to
get rid of, as too dangerous to ride to
hounds.

On the morning after his arrival, there
was a meet near Whitepatch, to which
]pick intended to go. He determined to
start on Ugly Bob, having his other horse

lit on.

A few hours after he had crone there
was a commotion at the front door, and
Harrison rushed in with his face a shade
paler than usual, and whispered something

to the Colonel in the dining-room, who
immediately followed him out into the
hall.

Stretched on a feather-bed in a cart at
the door they saw the Hon. Dick lying
insensible, and with his head severely
wounded. Mr. Bramble and another
gentleman were with him. Harrison
quickly found a small couch, and he was
carried up upon it to his bedroom. Mr.
Bramble had already sent a messenger
for Mr. White, the local doctor, who
shortly arrived. Mr. White feared there
was severe injury both to the brain and

spine ; and said that it was a wonder he
was alive, and that his family had better
be sent for at once, and Sir George Goodman
summoned from town. Telegrams
accordingly were immediately sent to Lord
Huntiugcroft, and the great Sir George.

Mr. Bramble gave the Colonel an account
of the accident.

Huntingcroft had ridden wildly at
everything he came to, exactly as if he
were riding for a fall, and that brute of a
horse of his also had become so excited he
seemed to have no control over him. When
they got to the bottom of a field, near the
end of the run, the huntsman had shouted
to them to keep well to the right, but
Huntingcroft had gone straight on ; and
that mad brute carried him clean over a
hedge into an old chalk pit on the other
side. The horse was killed clean on the
spot, and they found his rider shot to the
ground several yards ahead of him, quite
unconscious, and with the blood running
from his head."

The news spread through the house as
only disaster can fly, and Jenny came running

up to Mary with suppressed terror
in her face.

Mary, when she heard the account,
understood the matter at once ; but the
sight of Jenny's distress prevented her
from saying all she felt with the severity
she thought her friend deserved.

Oh, Jenny ! what have you done ? '
she said ; " I fear he did it on purpose."

For God's sake, Miss Mary, don't say
that ! " — her tears breaking out in floods.
I only did what I thought was best."
She bent for a moment with her face in
her hands, and leant against the wall.
Then by a rigorous effort of her firm
nature she recovered her self-command.

What will not the eyes of a true woman
express when the object of her affections is
in supreme danger ? To judge by the
expression in her face, Jenny at that

moment would have willingly died to save
her lover.

Tell me, dear Miss Mary, can't I go and
see him ? I may be of use. I will be quite
calm ; men are so stupid and frightened
when anything happens they are not used
to."

But Mr. White has come, Jenny, and
you must not disturb him."

But I can go in as housekeeper to see if
he wants anything ! '

Yes, you might do that," said Mary ;
and Jenny started for her lover's room.

She found that she was just in time, as
Mr. White was requiring many little things
before he could examine and dress the
wound on the head. Harrison had already
gone to despatch a man on horseback for
leeches, and to prepare mustard poultices
for the feet. As she ran off to get them,

her lover's pale and blood-stained face, of
which she had a brief glimpse, haunted her
like a dreadful dream, and it was only the
necessity of action and the importance of
her mission that prevented her from sinking
to the ground.

When she returned, Mr. White was again
quietly examining his patient, to assure
himself that no bones were broken. He
thought it was a case of compression of the
brain, probably complicated with concussion
of the spine. He now cut away the hair,
and examined the wound on the head more
carefully. He looked very grave, and said
he feared the bone of the skull was pressing
on the brain. Poor Dick was break thine:
with great labour, and they could not rouse
him nor get an answer.

Although Jenny managed to save every
morsel of the hair that was cut off, she

attended to the business in hand, and Mr.
White was well pleased with her promptitude
and presence of mind.

Mr. Bramble had gone to send the
telegrams, and the Colonel stood by the
bedside to help in anything that was
required.

Mr. White remained with him until late
in the evening, and towards ten o'clock Sir
George Goodman arrived. He confirmed
Mr. White's opinion of the case, and approved
of his treatment, and said there was
little more to be done except to keep his
head constantly covered with wet cloths,
and on no account to give him stimulants.
He thought there was not much hope, and
that even if life were spared, he would probably
remain helpless on his back for life.
Sir George agreed to remain for the night,
and, when he went to bed — leaving Mr.

White in charge — there was no improvement
in the symptoms.

The Colonel sat up the greater part of
the night with his friend, and insisted on
Mr. White getting a little rest ; promising
to call him if he saw any change. Mary
and Jenny retired very late to rest — and
this time it was Jenny who at length
sobbed herself to sleep in Mary's arms ;
and Mary lay awake for a long time,
watching over her heart-broken friend, and
listening to Don Carlos, who seemed to
have a more dismal voice than ever.

CHAPTER VIII.

Jenny DARES TO DISBELIEVE IX THE GREAT
• SIR GEORGE GOODMAN.

Jenny awoke at a very early hour with a
feeling of suffocation, and she immediately
disengaged herself from Mary's arms, ami
got out of bed. As soon as she had made
herself a little presentable, she stole off to
the door of her lover's room and listened.
All seemed quiet, and she thought she
could hear him breathing in the same way
as he had done the night before, and someone
gently moving about. She remained
some time, and then returned to her room
and lay down outside the bed. When half-past

five struck, she again rose softly and
went to call Ruth, sending her down to
light the fire and get some tea ready.

Before long she appeared at the door of
the sick-room with a little tea-tray in her
hand. She knocked gently, and Mr. White
came to the door, looking very grave.

u How is he, sir ? " she whispered.

I fear just the same,' 1 he replied in the
same true.

I have brought you some tea, sir."

Well, I should be glad of a little," he
said, as he allowed her to pass into the room.

She placed the tea down on a little table

near where he had been sitting, and stole

softly to the bedside. Dick was still

breathing with labour, but he was already

much changed, and the paleness of death

was on his face. As she stood with her

hands clasped, gazing at him intently,
vol. in. 46

Mr. White sat down with his back toward-the
bed to drink his tea, Jenny stooped
and pressed her trembling lips tenderly
on the dying face.

Sir George visited his patient again
before breakfast, but he was cautious in
giving any further opinion. After breakfast
he had a consultation with Mr. While
and departed to catch the express, leaving
the case in his hands. But before he left
he wanted to telegraph for a professional
nurse from town. The Colonel thought
that no one could nurse him so well as
Jenny.

Mr. White approved, and she was
installed in that office, in which she was
to be assisted by one of the gardener's
wives, who had had experience in such
matters.

The Colonel had been wondering that

they heard nothing of Lord Huntingcroft ;
but a telegram arrived early, stating that
he had been away from home, and would
be down by a train at midday.

During the morning Dick seemed to be
slowly sinking, and Jenny became highly
dissatisfied with Sir George's almost negative
treatment. She thought he ought
not to have left so soon, and that he had
virtually come down for nothing. She
then went to Harrison, and demanded
fiercely if none " of his little medicines
were of any use — she didn't believe in
those helpless old creatures."

Harrison said he knew perfectly what
he ought to have, and that was arnica.
It had saved many a dying man in severe
accidents."

Then why didn't you say so before,
Mr. Harrison ? "

Harrison, with all his skill, was too
modest to interpose his amateur knowledge
in such a grave case, and when a
great doctor had been called in ; and he
said that he had not liked to interfere.

But I shall interfere," said Jenny,
"and give it to him at once — if you will
let me have some. You always say they
can't do any harm ; so there is no danger
in trying."

Well, you may if you like ; but you
must not let Mr. White see you do it, or
he will prevent you."

Harrison fetched a bottle of tincture of
arnica, and some globules of the same, and
instructed Jenny how they were to be
used. The tincture was to be put into
the wet bandages for the head, and the
globules were to be beaten up for sometime
in a little water, and a teaspoonful

given to him every half hour. He said if
they had used the arnica at once, he would
very likely have been conscious again
before now.

Then you are quite wicked not to have
told me of it before ! ' said Jenny with
much warmth. " And if he does not
recover, I shall never forgive you ! ' And
she departed in haste with her precious
medicine.

She was much too skilful not to soon
find an opportunity of administering her
remedies, and Mr. White had to leave his
patient at intervals to attend upon a poor
woman in danger.

Early in the afternoon Lord Hunting-croft
arrived. The Hon. Dick had one
sister, who had married the Earl of Walsall ;
but she was at Mentioned, in very delicate
health, and her father had hesitated about

sending for her until lie saw how thin
were likely to turn. He had long anticipated
an accident of this kind, as he knew
Dick's rashness in the saddle ; hut hi-distress
was none the less now that it had
actually occurred.

He sat by his bedside for some time,
and was not long in finding out who waa
the bright young creature who seemed to
be nursing him with such remarkable
devotion, and whose face was at once sympathetic
to him. He thought what a
spiteful and envious thing was fate to dash
all his fondest wishes to the ground just as
they were about to be realized.

Jenny also found time to make her
observations, and thought she had never
seen a kinder-looking old gentleman, and
that she could have loved him as if she
had been his own daughter.

Jenny went on with her arnica, and
late in the evening Mr. White was rather
surprised to find a sudden improvement in
Dick's pulse and respiration (the use of the
thermometer had not yet been generally
appreciated), with greater warmth in the
feet. Towards midnight consciousness
seemed to be returning, and Mr. White
was able to get a confused answer from
him when he spoke in a loud tone — and he
said he thought they might save his life
vet. He then left him for a time to attend
to his other patient, and Jenny and Lord
Huntingcroft remained alone in the sickroom.


As the night advanced the consciousness
increased, and Dick was able to complain of
thirst. Jenny thought his pulse was becoming
too quick and his hands very hot.
Harrison had warned her to let him know

at once if there were any signs of feverish -
ness. Without saying a word, she slipped
off quietly and called Harrison out of his
bed. He gave her aconite, with instructions
to use it alternately with the arnica.
If there were any signs of delirium, she
was to let him know immediately. He
would not trust even Jenny with the
requisite medicines in advance, as he had
never found any woman capable of applying
the right one as the symptoms arose.

The Colonel came in once or twice
in the night, as he was unable to sleep.
In the early morning the pulse was great ly
improved, the thirst less, the deadly fever-fire
seemed to have been nearly quenched
at its kindling, and the breathing and
expression of the face was more natural.
Lord Huntingcroft had remained the
whole night in the room, and at an early

hour Harrison called him down for some
breakfast he had prepared in the diningroom,
at which also the Colonel appeared.
They felt little of their fatigue and anxiety
in their renewed hope.

Jenny remained alone in the room, nor
would she allow any one to take her place.
She was now standing quietly by the bed,
and she again stooped and kissed Dick with
the lightness of a butterfly. He opened
his eyes and recognized her.

Is that you, Jenny ? ' he said quietly.
Where am I ? "

You have had a bad accident, sir, and
you are in your own bed ; but you must
keep very quiet and not talk."

She was radiant with joy at this rapid
improvement and his return to life.

Kiss me again, dear Jenny," he said
presently.

She became crimson with confusion, but
she had also an increased joy to find he
was so really conscious. She again stooped,
and putting her two hands lightly on each
side of his bandaged head, she kissed him
tenderly.

Once more, Jenny," he said.

You will promise to keep quiet, sir ? '

Yes," he said, and she again stooped
and kissed him softly. He sighed a little,
and a happy smile came on his face.

When Mr. White appeared, he was
astonished at the rapid improvement in
his patient, and that there was so little
fever on his recovering consciousness.
Jenny did not enlighten him. She feared
there would be more blood sucking or
some strong medicine that would undo
everything. She was, however, very glad
to hear his opinion that immediate danger

to life had passed, and that he would
recover, if the spine was not injured.
But she was confident Harrison would cure
even that ; and at length she went off with
a lighter heart to eat something for almost
the first time since the accident happened,
and to give a little attention to Mary.

CHAPTER IX.

A LOVE SCENE AND A SHORT MEDICAL

TREATISE.

We must now return for a little time to
our unfortunate heroine upstairs. Being
left almost entirely alone, her courage
began to fail her. With such events going
on in the house, she felt more keenly
than ever her false position. Jenny,
notwithstanding her anxiety about her
lover, had taken care that she should not
be neglected in essential matters ; but she
had neither time nor thought for one of
her encouraging speeches. Mary only saw
her for a few moments together, and the

hours passed very wearily as she found
herself unable to give any real attention
to her books or her usual occupations.
Never before had her captivity pressed so
heavily, and she began to think seriously
of surrender, when Jenny arrived with the
good news of Dick's improvement.

This cheered her up a little, as she had
a very real regard and friendship for him.
Jenny had also something else to talk about,
which was not less cheering.

She had made up her mind now, that
if Dick recovered she would accept him.
Lord Huntingcroft had shown marked
kindness and even distinction in his
manner towards her, and she felt instinctively
that she had already considerable
influence with him. The Rector had
failed in the end to move the Colonel ; but
she thought that Lord Huntingcroft, who

was quite as old a friend of the Colonel 8,
might succeed, if they could only get him
on their side, and to enter cordially into
the matter.

Mary knew that the Colonel had a great
respect for Dick's father, and that a man
in his position would have a greater
weight with him than any one else ; she
approved of Jenny's scheme, and was much
encouraged thereby.

But you must make up your mind, then,
to marry Captain Huntingcroft, Jenny."
she said.

Well, Miss Mary, I have made up my
mind," she replied, with a bright blush.

To marry him ? '

Yes — if he recovers."

Then you must tell him so at once.
It will be the best medicine you can give
him."

I shall see, Miss Mary, how he
behaves."

When her maid was gone, our heroine
felt much more hopeful, and tried to do a
little work towards finishing her interior
of the Priest's rooms, which was already
a charming little picture. It is hanging
up at Whitepatch to this day, and often
gazed at by the old Colonel, who is still
alive. But we must return again to the
sick-room.

There were no fresh signs of fever or
other complications, but Jenny was not
long in perceiving that her patient was
not so much recovered as she had
thought, and that he was nearly helpless.
Mr. White said it was only what he had
feared. But he would not express any
further opinion until Sir George came
down again.

Jenny now became unaccountably Bryant
was very angry with herself for so
being ; but she allowed the gardener's wife
to take her place much oftener than poor
Dick liked, and it was a hopeful sign that
he had energy enough in his mind to swear
at her inwardly as an officious nuisance.
Jenny, however, kept the command in
chief, and no sick-room was ever managed
with greater skill and quiet thoughtfulness,
or a firmer will and tact displayed in
keeping away over-anxious visitors. Lord
Huntingcroft, however, was so quiet and
gentle, and his son seemed to take such
a pleasure in seeing him, that he was a
privileged person, and Dick instinctively
felt that Jenny had gained his father's
affections as well as his own. She had
lovingly bent down and whispered, "that
if he would do what he was told and get

well, she would marry him ; " and he was
happy and hopeful, notwithstanding his
helpless condition.

But still there was no further improvement.
Sir George came down again, and,
at Lord Huntingcroft's earnest entreaties
to know the exact truth, said he thought
it was very doubtful how the case would
turn, but there was some hope in his son's
youth and good constitution. Mr. White
sent various medicines, of which, however,
Jenny took care that Dick should not have
a single drop. She relied entirely on
Harrison, and deep were her consultations
with him. He held firmly to his opinion
that arnica was the remedy and the only
one, and that it was a matter of time and
perseverance. He, however, was not sure
about his dilution — that he was using the
right one, or that the arnica ought not to

YOL. III. 47

be alternated with some other medicine.
Jenny became impatient, and insisted on
studying the matter for herself in Harrison's
books and reviews. At length, with
great triumph, she came upon an article on
the use of arnica in severe injuries, by a
great American. In this article stress w
laid on varying the dilutions in obstinate
cases of spinal concussion, and on a
great economy in the use of the medicine
immediately there were any signs of improvement.
Harrison at once thought he
saw his way, and he telegraphed to town
for a very low dilution, to use with those
he had in hand.

The two ardent conspirator-disciples then
set to work as before, under the very nose
of Mr. White, who regarded homoeopathy
as the most abominable of quackeries.

Whether it was the skilful use of the

arnica or the mighty power of nature,
the reader must judge for himself; but
certainly, in a day or two only, a marked
improvement was shown in the condition
of the patient, and before long they were
able to move him on to a sofa.

It was the hour of dinner, and the
Colonel and his guest were downstairs,
cheerful and happy at the turn affairs had
taken. The sick man was on his sofa, and,
kneeling on the ground at his side, with
one arm thrown gently round him, and her
head close to him, was a bright-looking
girl with an abundance of fair hair and a
happy, blushing face.

You are sure you really love me ? "

Yes, sir, a little."

When did you first begin to care forme
< a little ' ? "

I leave you to guess, sir.

Why do you still persist in calling me
sir ? Why don't you call me Dick ? '

You must first get quite well, sir, and
then perhaps, sir, in time, sir, I may learn
to call you — Richard — to begin with, you
know, sir."

Mrs. Spilled, you are the greatest little
prude that ever wore an apron with two
pockets in it. You ought to be called Prudence.
I think I shall call you Prudence."

As you like, sir — only I won't be called
True ! "

Why are women in the country so fond
of aprons with two pockets, True ? '

I don't know, sir, unless it is because
they think it is nicer to look clean and
homely than smart."

Ah, commend me to an artless country
girl for knowing how to make herself

look becoming !



Do you think aprons are becoming,
sir ?

You innocent lamb, of course you
know they are, or you would not wear
them ! But it is extraordinary how many
women don't understand that. If they
knew how nice and womanly they look in
them, they would wear them always.

"When they go to court, sir, or at a
ball ? "

Well, no — well, yes — at a fancy ball.
I remember once I was greatly taken —
but that only shows what pretentious asses
we have become in these days ; no one can
be simple now," said our hero number two,
suddenly, to cover his retreat. But he was
not to be let off so easily.

Who was it you w T ere so greatly taken
with, sir ? ' said our heroine number
two, with a sting of her old jealousy

and mistrust, drawing herself away a
little.

What a silly child you are ! Come
here, put your head here — quite close now,
that I may tell you how I love you. When
did you first begin to care for me ? You
have not answered me that yet."

M I always liked you a little, sir."

A little ! Look here, Prudence, if you
don't tell me, I am sure I shall not sleep
to-night," he said, with some of the
imitation of a sick man. " I shall think
you only care for me because I am ill."

This aroused his nurse to the danger of
letting him talk too much or becoming
excited.

I liked you, sir, the instant I saw you
the first time we met."

True ? but why did you like me ?

"I don't know, sir; perhaps it was

because I thought you were so nice and
different from all the others."

How different from the others,
Minerva ? "

Because you did not seem to think you
were doing me a great favour in talking
to me. But I am not going to let you talk
any more to-night, sir. You know Mr.
White says you are to be kept very quiet."

Well, then, one nice little kiss, and I
will let you go."

Jenny kissed him gently, and then
adroitly withdrew her blushing face, and
proceeded to arrange matters for his going
to bed again ; nor would she allow her
patient to say another word.

From which little scene it may be
gathered that the Hon. Dick was on a fairway
to recovery.

CHAPTER X.

THE NEW ALLY.

Jenny was not long in taking her lover
into her new plot. Dick entered into it
heartily, though he had considerable doubt
of his father being persuaded to interfere
in a matter of such great delicacy.

Lord Huntingcroft had been informed of
Jenny's acceptance of his son's hand. He
had had many little conversations with her,
and was more and more charmed with her
beauty and her naturalness ; neither did he
fail to appreciate very quickly her good
sense and spirit, and the honesty and firmness
of her character. He was also convinced

that sbe had really given her heart
to his son — a matter he set much store on.

It had been agreed between Jenny and
her lover that they should open fire on
Lord Huntingcroft together, and they took
an early opportunity of doing so, when all
three were quietly alone.

As Dick had expected, his father showed
considerable reluctance to interfere in the
Colonel's affairs, whom he thought would
only resent it as an impertinence. The
confederates debated the matter with him
for some time in vain, but Dick had kept
his friend's secret, and his father had not
yet been informed of Mary's being in the
house. At last Lord Huntingcroft said —

But where can she possibly be ? Surely
the Colonel could find her if he took proper
means ! "

Dick hesitated, and glanced at Jenny.

She nodded her head. " She is there,
father," he said, pointing gravely towards
the ceiling.

Lord Huntingcroft was a little startled
for a moment.

What do you mean ? ' said his lordship.


She is in the house at this moment, and
concealed in the Priest's rooms over the
library."

Impossible ! " exclaimed the old gentleman,
highly diverted.

The joke was too good. It gave him a
certain feeling of superiority over his
simple old friend, and Jenny and Dick
drew such a picture of the constancy and
devotion of the lovers, and the injustice of



their having been first thrown together
and then torn asunder afterwards, that he
consented to " mention the subject " to the

Colonel, and to use his influence on the
lovers' behalf, "if he could find any
legitimate opening that would warrant his
interference."

After dinner is the best time, father,
when he has lighted his pipe."

Lord Huntingcroft was not much flattered
at his diplomatic powers being made
subject to the good effects of a pipe of
tobacco ; nevertheless, he good-humouredly
promised that he would see what could be
done that evening, when he and the
Colonel were alone together, and Jenny
flew up to Mary with the good news.

t^c «fi 'Tf* *gfc 7[£

Yes, it is very sad, Doddingstead," said

his old comrade to the Colonel, as they

7 %/

sat over the fire that evening after dinner,
puffing away with the gravity of elders.
On a little table between them stood a

finished bottle of famous old Romance,
which came from a snug little warm cellar
opening out of the Colonel's room.

The Colonel had never before mentioned
to him the subject of Mary, which he had
much wondered at, concluding, however,
now, that it was to his advantage, as his
friend must have had a guilty conscience
in some way, or he certainly would have
done so. It was with difficulty, and the
exercise of much tact, that he had brought
him to speak of his trouble even now.

I suppose you have quite made up your
mind against it ? ' he continued presently.

Entirely ! " said the Colonel. " Nothing
shall ever induce me to connect my family
with the Wyldemans."

This was not encouraging. But Lord
Huntingcroft was not wanting in moral
fibre ; and even from the Colonel's own

account of the matter, he thought he was
acting with unwise obstinacy when things
had gone so far.

I have not had the pleasure of seeing
your granddaughter since she was a child,"
he said. " Is she a girl who will get over
a disappointment easily ? '

This was a home thrust.

Well — I am afraid not," said the
Colonel honestly, with a sigh ; " but she
must. She is only eighteen, and time will
do its work for the rest."

I would not be too sure of that. I
have seen some very sad cases."

The Colonel groaned in spirit. " I
cannot help it," he replied ; " she shall never
marry that fellow with my consent ! '

From what my son tells me, Waldemar
is a man who will stick to her. Are
you sure you are not only putting off the

evil day, and giving yourself a lot of
unnecessary pain ? "

"I cannot help it! It shall never be
with my consent ! '

"If I may speak as an old friend, I
should say in your own interest that it is
worth reconsideration'*

I have considered and reconsidered it,
but always with the same result."

Then there is nothing more to be said.
But I am convinced it is not always wise
for we elders to consider our own feelings
and self-interest in these matters too
closely. You are, I think, aware that
I have given my consent to Dick's
marrying Jenny Spilled, and she has at
last accepted him ? On the whole, I am
content, as she is a charming girl, full of
goodness and sense, and I think she will
suit him very well, though, of course, there

are certain things I should have wished
otherwise."

I am sure she will make him happy !
She has been fairly well educated, and she
is an excellent and high-principled girl in
every way ! You know she belongs to
one of our best old families in these parts ?
And if John Spilled gets back his property,
I do not think there can be really very
much against them," said the Colonel,
standing up warmly for his own county and
relations.

Yes, I admit that makes a great difference,"
said his lordship ; " and if poor Dick
recovers, we must make them happy in any
case."

After a long silence, in which Lord
Huntingcroft lighted another cigar, the
Colonel turned suddenly upon his friend.

Do you think, then, Huntingcroft, I am

acting selfishly with regard to my granddaughter
? "

Lord Huntingcroft had almost given the
matter up as hopeless, but he courageously
seized this new opening.

I do not go quite so far as that," he
said, with much kindness in his tone ;
but I do think, honestly, after the young
people have been imprudently allowed to
fall in love with each other, and as there
is absolutely nothing against the young
fellow himself, personally, you are rather
straining your prejudices."

The Colonel winced, but made no reply.

Lord Huntingcroft, seeing that he had
made a strong impression, wisely turned
the conversation on the affairs of John
Spilled, and nothing more passed between
them on the subject of Mary.

As Dick seemed now out of all danger,

and on a fairway to recovery, the following
morning his father left Whitepatch to
attend pressing matters connected with his
large property ; but from the Colonel's
humble manner, and the warm shake of the
hand he gave him at parting, he had some
hope that his hazardous interference on
behalf of the distressed lovers would be
successful.

Long and fiercely, indeed, had the old
man again debated the matter in his mind
that night. " Then, he had been acting
selfishly, imprudently, and straining his
prejudices. Every one seemed against
him, even his old friend Huntingcroft, whose
feelings and prejudices were so nearly allied
to his own."

After Lord Huntingcroft's departure, he

ordered his horse and went out for a ride,

still feebly fighting with himself. He rode
vol. in. 48

a long way, forgetting his luncheon, and
towards evening returned home by the
sands. The setting sun lighted up the
shore and the falling waves. It reminded
him of his own declining life, and that ina
few years he should be setting to his
final rest also. He thought of his last ride
there with Mary, of her charming grace
and affectionate disposition, of her deep
distress at his refusal to sanction her
engagement, of her earnest and constant
nature — when he suddenly started off Don
Quixote at a gallop, and rode for home as
fast as he could go.

On arriving at the Manor, he hastily
flung down his hat and whip, and went
straight up to the room in which Dick was
lying on a sofa. He was alone, as Jenny
had gone to pay a visit to Mary.

Iluntingcroft," he said, " if you and

your friend TVyldemnn can find Mary, I
will give my consent to the marriage."

Dick's astonishment and delight was
exceeding, and he warmly congratulated
the Colonel on his resolution. " You will
never repent it," he said ; " and when
you know Wyldeman, you will say I
am right ! ' He would not, however, disclose
Mary's secret, until he had consulted
Jenny. He only said, " I will telegraph
to Wyldeman at once, and you may be sure
Miss Doddingstead will be found before
long."

After his long ride and fast, the Colonel
that evening got through a famous dinner,
and looked remarkably cheerful. Not a
hint did he give to Miss Doddingstead of
his surrender, but he silently drank long
life and much happiness to Sir Francis and
Lady Wyldeman, and grimly made his

daughter drink a glass of champagne without
telling her the reason why.

After dinner, he lighted the great pipe
before the comfortable old fireplace — which
warmed without scorching — and felt very
happy, with the venerable Shot in his
accustomed place on the hearth. He
turned over in his mind the question of
name. Should it be Wyldeman-Dodding-
stead or Doddingstead-Wyldeman ?. This
was a delicate point. Sir Francis was
now the head of his house. He supposed
it would have to be the latter ; but the
second boy should take the name of Dod-instead
only, with the property belonging
to it. Mary's fortune could go to the
eldest son by way of compensation — he
should hold out for that arrangement, and
lie saw the face of his second great grandson
in the glowing embers, until he fell into

a gentle doze — when, lo! what is this? The
pale maiden of the eastern stairs glides
swiftly into the room unheard, perches herself
upon his knees, places two loving arms
round his neck, and gives him as warm
kisses as if she were alive ; old Shot, too,
joining himself to the group — a keen scent
for apparitions apparently not coming
within his experience — and a sweet voice
amidst tears exclaims, " Dear grandpa, I
have never left the house ! "

CHAPTER XL

THE HERO ENTERS Whitewash BY THE

FRONT DOOR.

It was just before Christmas, and the short
winter day was fast closing in with a
darkening gloom that heightened the effect
of the bright fires and the general sense of
comfort and cheerfulness of a well-kept
country house ; while without, the first
flakes of winter snow were falling with the
welcome and refreshing stimulus of all
seasonable arrivals.

Who can heighten that eternal poem of
nature — the meeting of true lovers, the

bright, happy face of the hero, and the shy
joy of the heroine, as they stand in the
porch lighted by the blazing fire in the hall,
which burnt that evening with unusual
vigour, as if it also was aware of the vast
importance of the occasion ?

Everything had been settled in the most
orthodox and correct manner. The affairs
of Sir Francis were found to be in a much
sounder and more flourishing condition
than the Colonel had anticipated — he
having overlooked the fact that his transactions
with the father had taken place before
he came into the family property, and
that Lady Wyldeman had been a sensible
and prudent wife. Sir Francis quite confirmed
the guarantee of his friend as to
his generosity of spirit in accommodating
himself to the feelings and wishes of others ;
and the Colonel's chickens were disposed of

in the manner on which he had set his
heart.

After Mary had helped Sir Francis off
with his coat, and had submitted to another
hug which made her think what strong
fellows men were, she ran in and brought
out her grandfather from his room. The
two men found each other different from
what they had expected from the highly
correct and studied letters which had passed
between them ; and they at once struck a
cordial note in unison that augured well
for the future. Mary stood with her arms
interlaced behind her in the firelight, and
glanced from one to the other with deep
happiness in her heart, as they talked about
the weather and the coming snow with as
everyday an air as though Sir Francis had
only just dropped in for a visit on his way
home to the next village.

Aunt Augusta, when she appeared,
thought our hero was very like the portraits
of Henry the Eighth !

The dinner that night was very gay.
Sir Francis was extremely animated, and
had a good deal to say about what went on
in the great world that was new and
interesting to his audience, and all felt that
a fresh and welcome element was introduced
into their life ; though the Colonel remarked
that he eat his four-year-old mutton, which
had been carefully hung and kept for his
arrival, as if it only came from the butcher's
"his friend was very different in this
respect" — nor was the fine magnum of
champagne appreciated any more than if it
were water. Harrison told Eliza that he
would do; but that he ought to have a dose
of aconite, or he would never sleep that
night after all that excitement. It may,

however, be remarked that our hero slept
remarkably well in the Bride's Chamber,
which had been allotted to him.

It had been a great question, before he
came, what room he was to occupy. Miss
Doddingstead thought he ought to be put
through the ordeal of the Quixote. Mary
would not hear of such a gloomy room
being given to him, in such an unfortunate
part of the house. (She had not objected to
its being occupied by the Hon. Dick.) The
Colonel thought he ought to have the room
that his son had always used. Mary said
he should have the Bride's Chamber.

But that is all wrong," said the
Colonel ; " he is not a bride. That would
turn it into the Bridegroom's Chamber."

Mary laughed and said, " Why not,
grandpa ? In this case the bride will
have to be taken away;' and she gained

her point. The fact being, the young
minx had long settled in her own mind
that when she married and became mistress
of the Manor, that was the room she would
occupy, as it was the pleasantness in the
house and the easiest of access ; and the
great iron bar over the door at the foot of
the stairs gave it that feeling of security
which a woman loves well — even if she
have her husband by her side.

The good old Conservative Colonel was
again a little disturbed to find Sir Francis
did not eat cheese or drink his glass of
beer. A suspicion arose in his mind as to
his politics, and with deep diplomacy, ashe
thought, he sounded him. Sir Francis,
notwithstanding Mary's warning glance,
soon disclosed that he was an advanced
Liberal. " Mary must turn him round," he
thought ; " but she must do it before they

were married. If he had known that
before, he did not think he would have so
readily consented. They had never had
anything but Conservatives at Whitepatch ;
but the world was turning upside down,
and young people seemed to take pleasure
in these days in standing on their heads."

After the ladies had retired, Harrison
brought in with great state a bottle of
'5L port. Miss Doddingstead liked port,
but as she hardly knew one wine from
another, the Colonel would never let her
have even a glass of the '51 vintage; if
she had appreciated it, she might have had
her share and welcome. Sir Francis did
not drink port, he regarded it very much
in the light of quack medicine, and stuck
to the claret. It was very different with
the Hon. Dick. He had found out its
merit at once, and enjoyed it like a man.

Ah, well ! one can't have everything,"
thought the Colonel. " Mary looks as
happy as a boy with stolen apples, and I
suppose I must be content." Sir Francis,
however, smoked, and that was something
a few months ago, it would have been
a high virtue that he did not.

Before they left the room, Sir Francis
managed to express in a few honest words
his great happiness, his sense of the
Colonel's goodness, and his earnest desire
to do everything in his power to make
Mary happy ; and his regret at having to
take her away from him.

The Colonel sighed, and said, " he did
not doubt that it was for her happiness,
and that was all he desired ; ' but in his
honest humility he thought that old birds
could never see, until it was too late, that
young birds were hatched with wings.

After dinner, Sir Francis went the round
of the portraits in the drawing-room, and
gained the Colonel's heart by saying that,
after all, an old house with its associations
was the only fit place for a gentleman
to live in." " He is only a theorist Liberal,
after all," thought the Colonel ; " and
Mary will soon put him straight now he
has a stake of his own in the country."

The next morning there were rival
claims on the attention of Sir Francis.
Mary wanted to take him first up to her
own quarters and show him all her pet-and
then to take him over to the church to
help her and Spilled in the decorations for
Christmas Day, which was on the morrow.
But our hero had unfortunately remarked
on the quaint and original tone of Don
Carlos, with an air of great innocence, as
if he had never stood in the cold for hours

listening to it before ; and he received the
unprecedented honour of an invitation to
go up and see the workmanship of its
venerable interior. This was an invitation
not to be slighted on any consideration,
and Mary decided to put off the visit to
her apartments until another time.

When they got into the tower, Sir
Francis was greatly struck with the beauty
and solid excellence of such an old clock ;
and the Colonel, in his enthusiastic delight,
proceeded to set the striking part in motion
to show him how it worked — when there
was a whirl, a snap, and a disaster that
was heartrending ; for though Don Carlos
would still go on pointing mournfully to
the hour, his voice would not be heard on
Christmas Day, an event which the Colonel
was sure would cast a gloom over the
whole parish, and make them think some

dreadful thing had happened at the Manor.
He hurried his young friend down, and
went to his room to get his tools and see
what could be done before tomorrow.

Sir Francis began to find more and more
that the Colonel was a very different sort
of man from what he expected, and he
took an affectionate liking for him, which
was all the greater for not having had a
father of his own whom he could love or
respect. For, after all, is it not people's
oddities that often really endear them tous,
however much we may admire and
respect them in other ways? That is,
however, if we are kindly and penetrative
ourselves, otherwise we are apt to find
them a bore !

Mary and Sir Francis went over to
the church, followed soon afterwards by
Spilled and Jack, the garden boy, armed

with a plentiful supply of evergreens and
holly berries. Then the Rector soon put
in an appearance, and the two men were
introduced. Sir Francis thought he was
no end of a nice old boy, and the Rector
was of opinion he was an excellent young
fellow who seemed to have escaped spoiling,
and that his old friend had nearly
made a terrible mistake in rejecting him.
Having seen that Mary had everything
she wanted, and promising to send hera
ladder and steps, he declared the church
was too cold for him, and departed.

Jenny soon saw that the decorations
would have to be done to all intents and
purposes by herself, as Jack's genius for decorating
was limited to fetching and carrying;
though he displayed such originality
in his ideas of how things should be held,

that Jenny's patience was sorely tried.
vol. in. 49

What a delightful place for a pair of
lovers is an empty, rambling old church,
with its big pillars in the centre, its high
pews, and its odd corners that get out of
sight! Sir Francis and Mary decided they
would do the side chancel first, and then
come and help Spilled with the rest. He
fetched and carried, but in the matter of
holding, he showed himself to be even more
stupid than Jack, who, at any rate, did not
get his hands so perpetually in the way of
what Jenny was tying up, nor so close to
her that she had neither room to work nor
sometimes even to breathe ; and when
Jenny, somewhat puzzled at last by the
unnatural silence, came round to see if they
had gone out, she found them seated in a
high pew — with little done beyond a few
evergreens tied together.

Soon after one, John came over to say

that luncheon was ready, and the Colonel
was waiting ; so they hurried over to the
Manor. Jenny decided it would be impossible
for her to find time to go to her
dinner, and so she sent Jack to get his,
with orders that he was to bring her something
to eat when he returned.

They found the Colonel seated at the
table with an intent air of express business,
as if he were a great leading barrister with
an important case, and five minutes to get
his luncheon. The young people sat down
and set to work, for though Sir Francis
did not much care what he ate or drank,
yet he had a good healthy appetite, and
we all know that going to church is
hungry work.

They had nearly finished, when Harrison
threw open the door and announced,
Captain Huntingcroft !

He had great news to tell. He had
received a letter that morning from his
lawyers, informing him that the Levys hall
capitulated, and agreed to accept a compromise,
by which John Spilled would be
reinstated in the family property at
Ixstead, and receive a large sum of ready
money in lieu of his claim on the property
at Shrimpgate. He had come off himself
to bring the news. Heavy and Young
had wanted to hold out for even better
terms — that is, Heavy had, as " there was
no saying what might be the ultimate
value of the land at Shrimpgate." Young
thought otherwise, " that Shrimpgate was
now at its high-water mark, with rivals
springing up in every direction, and that
it would decline in value." The Hon.
Dick himself had only been anxious to
reinstate John Spilled at Ixstead. Money

was no great object to him, and he had
pressed a speedy settlement.

Mary was in great delight at this news,
and the Colonel was so interested, that he
forgot all about his clock for some minutes.

"But where is Jenny? "said Dick, "I
must tell her directly ? "

We left her in the church putting up
the decorations for tomorrow," replied
Mary.

Oh ! Then I will run over and find
her at once ! " he said.

Won't you have some luncheon, Captain
Huntingcroft ? " asked Miss Doddingstead.

No, thanks. Not now ; ' and he set
off at once for the church.

How nice men are when they are in
love!' thought poor Miss Doddingstead.
But, then, they never remain long so,"
she again thought presently.

Let us run out and tell John Spilled,"
said Mary to Sir Francis, and the two
lovers started off for the stables.

Jenny was perched up in the old square
reading-desk, munching a large crust of
dry bread, with a small jug of milk in her
hand, calmly inspecting the general effect
of her work, when Dick burst in at the
chancel door close upon her.

She started up in such surprise that she
upset her milk over the large Prayer-book.
But she was soon in Dick's arms, with her
jug in one hand and her crust of bread in
the other. She had had a long letter from
him that morning, in which he mentioned
that he was going down to spend Christmas
with his father, and he was the last person
she had expected to see.

How happy they were, and how it
seemed only one minute (it was nearly

half-an-hour) before Sir Francis and
Mary stole in slyly upon them !

Jenny then declared they must set to
work at once, or the decorations would never
be finished. Indeed, they were little more
than half done, after all, and it is sad to
relate that even the work-respecting Jenny
succumbed to the temptation of dalliance ;
and on the following day Harrison was
very sarcastic on the decorative performances
of the lovers, and declared they
had made the church " look like a pig with
one ear."

But the old Rector was highly amused,
as he had quickly heard of the arrival of
the other lover, and had anticipated the
results. They had even forgotten to put
any holly berries in his pulpit and reading-desk.


When they returned to the Manor, the

Colonel and Mary were anxious to keep
the Hon. Dick for Christmas Day, but he
declared that he would not leave his father
alone on that day for anything in the
world, and Jenny was highly pleased at
his resolution, thinking he would prove
constant after all.

John Spilled drove him to the station,
Jenny sitting with Dick behind in the
dog-cart. After an affectionate and warm
farewell in the waiting-room, he started
off with a happy heart, to travel all night,
and join his father early on the following
day.

CHAPTER XII.

OUR HEROINE IS DRIVEN BY FATE ON NEW

DANGERS.

It was finally settled that the two marriages
should take place together in White-patch
church on the 1st of June. Great
had been the discussion on this matter.
Sir Francis and the Hon. Dick had wished
to have it much sooner. First, it was put
off out of consideration for the feelings of
Lady Wyldeman, who tenaciously guarded
the respect due to her husband's memory,
who, with all his faults, had been good to
her. Then, Mary had a strong objection
to being married in the month of May. It

was an unlucky month, and she was sure
it would bring misfortune. Her father
and mother had been married in May.
Jenny also wished to have time to establish
herself in her new home, and supported
Mary in advocating the 1st of June.
She even declared to the Hon. Dick that
for her part, " June twelvemonth would
please her quite as well." She and her
father had quitted their service at the
Manor, and established themselves at
Ixstead. As I have said before, it was
a charming old house, somewhat in the
style of Whitepatch, though without the
individuality or the ghosts and hiding-places
on that strange old building. It
stood on high ground, and the church tower
close by could be seen in fine weather
across the Channel, forming in old times
a well-known landmark for smugglers.

Sir Francis and the Hon. Dick had both
retired from the army, and spent much of
their time in Kent, establishing themselves
at the Little Sack, now the property of
John Spilled, Esq., of Ixstead. But such
constant battles ensued between these two
gentlemen's gentlemen and Mrs. Crippin,
all packed together in this little establishment,
their late hours (eleven o'clock !),
their interference, their cigars, the difficulty
of feeding them, and their " shameful
" flirtations with Miss Tumber — that, to
judge from the noise and confusion, the
premises in the rear of the Little Sack
more resembled a disorderly lodging-house
than a retired and peaceful cottage in the
country, occupied by well-bred servants.

The two valets, in fact, were bored to
death, and could not resist the temptation of
"drawing" Mrs. Crippin on every possible

occasion, their two masters being much too
happy and occupied in their own affairs to
pay much attention to the long tirade of
complaints which Mrs. Crippin poured
upon them every morning, interspersed
with equally tiresome digressions on the
subject of their dinners.

This good woman had a fixed idea in
her head that nothing was ever to be goton
a Monday, or even on a Tuesday, or
much more easily on a Wednesday ; in fact,
that on no other day in the week could she
obtain them anything they asked for except
on a Saturday ; but it was found in actual
practice, that even this highly favoured
day often failed to produce the dish
demanded, and they had still to be contented
with the one Mrs. Crippin had
herself determined was the best for them.

Jenny had shown much energy and good

taste in arranging her new home. She
had, however, some comical experiences
with her servants, one or two fine gentlemen
and ladies taking themselves off when
they found their new master and mistress
had " only been servants."

As she had declared she would not
leave her father alone, it had been decided
that she and the Hon. Dick were to make
Ixstead their country home during the
lifetime of Lord Huntingcroft. The old
stables, consequently, had to be pulled down
and new ones built ; and for carrying out
this great project a committee was formed,
consisting of the Colonel, his ex-coachman,
Sir Francis, and the Hon. Dick. Certainly,
the plans of a new city could have been
made in the time it took this committee to
settle those of the new stables. The
Colonel and John Spilletfc entrenched

themselves in their old-world ideas, and
could not be brought without enormous
difficulty to see any merit in the " newfangled
notions ' of Dick and his friend.
John Spilled was sure " no horse would
ever eat his food out of a manger built
and placed like that." The Colonel was
equally certain the horses would be
starved to death with cold in the winter,
with so many ventilators and such a great
space of cold air over their heads." Finally,
the ideas of the young people prevailed,
though Spilled, we may add, has never
become reconciled to his new stables. And
yet, with a fresh invention every six-months,
they are now considered quite out
of date !

The intercourse between Whitepatch, Ixstead,
and the Little Sack was continuous ;
and Jenny, against her own judgment.

and to please her lover, invited the Colonel
to dinner. It was a famous sight to see
him solemnly leading in with great
ceremony his ex-housekeeper, and John
Spilled taking in Miss Doddingstead ; but
the Colonel and Jenny could not get on at
all together, and the former was thankful
to find himself by the side of his old
coachman when the ladies had retired.
Nor could Spilled get very far with Miss
Doddingstead, beyond a few remarks on
the weather and the new stables. The
Hon. Dick and Sir Francis were not a
little amused at the grim proceedings of
these high-contracting parties ; but Mary
was distressed, and the Hon. Dick had
to confess that the dinner was somewhat
of a failure as far as the elders were concerned.
But, doubtless, it would be as
easy to make a tunnel between London

and New Zealand as to bring some people
together !

But I must hasten on to more serious
matters. Jenny was wrong for once in
her confident opinion that when the
Colonel's consent was obtained to Mary's
marriage, her love for Sir Francis would
triumph over her fear of the spiritual
world. After the first excitement of
meeting was over, our heroine was haunted
with an ever-increasing dread of bringing
some heavy misfortune on herself and her
lover, if she did not obey the mysterious
writing on the window of the library.

Her first long trouble and suspense
no sooner ended, her conscience became
disturbed in a new way about her conduct
to her grandfather. She now interpreted
the mysterious warning, which twice she
thought she had heard, urging her to quit

the secret rooms, as a spiritual injunction
to obey the will of her grandfather, and
that in having forced him into an alliance
which he considered dishonourable, she had
been committing a wicked act and tempting
Providence. She attributed his apparent
cheerfulness and content with the new
order of things to his goodness and loyalty
of character. The early death of her
father and mother had always made a
deep impression on her mind, and the
poor child had been brought up in an
atmosphere of ghosts ; her dread of which
had been fostered from an early age by
the irresponsible tongues of servants and
cottagers. No sooner was the day of her
marriage actually fixed, than she secretly
determined she would even yet remain
single, if her lover should be rejected by
the spirit of Richard Doddingstead — if he

VOL. III. - r )0

appeared to only one of them when she
took him to the library. She never
doubted that he would appear, and made
no calculations as to her future action if he
did not.

Mary was so open to Sir Francis on
matters in general, that he was not a lit t It-troubled
to know what could be weighing
on the mind of his gentle maid, or to
account for the strange far-off look he now
and then caught in her eyes. He finally
came to the conclusion that her health and
spirits had suffered from the long confinement
and strain on her nerves, but that a
little time would restore her.

Another ghostly subject, also,, exercised
the mind of our heroine at this period,
though in a less degree. The tall figure
of Van Goyen, in his antique naval dress,
had appeared to her in a dream, and she

thought she was with her grandfather and
Harrison looking for something in the
chalk hole.

On this subject she discoursed to Jenny,
who divined the dream after this manner.

"It means, I expect, Miss Mary, that he
wants to be found and properly buried.
I thought the Colonel was going to search
for his body. I should have him found,
and then perhaps he will be quiet."

Mary fully believed the tradition in the
family that Yan Goyen had been buried
with some treasure in the underground
passage, and she now became anxious to
lay in peace this terrible visitant, before
she passed the ordeal in the library, as
she was convinced he was the real cause
of misfortune in the house. Miss Grandison
had confided to her what her father
had seen on the night of his death (as

the General had related his adventures
to his wife when he retired to bed).
One of the cottagers had also told her
that it was believed the gang of smugglers
who killed Yan Goyen had been headed
by a Doddingstead, and that it had served
him (Yan Goyen) right. She thought the
crime of Richard Doddingstead had been
chiefly an accident, but the other crime
had been a deliberate one that had left
a curse on the house — so many of the
younger members of her family had died
on coming to the age of manhood in an
inexplicable manner.

She resolved, then, to induce her grandfather
to carry out his project of making
a search in the underground passage,
which seemed to have escaped his memory.

The Colonel consented without any very
great difficulty, and a day was fixed.

It was arranged that the Hon. Dick and
Sir Francis, the Spilletts, the old Rector,
and Harrison were to take part in the
exploration. Miss Doddingstead, also, was
to be invited.

Dick now thought that his father would
greatly enjoy this exciting adventure, and
as Lord Huntingcroft was in town, it was
finally decided he should run down for a
short visit to Ixstead, which he had not
yet seen, and thus kill two birds with one
stone.

The news of this intended event soon
leaked out, and the excitement in the
neighbourhood rose to such a height over
the " enormous treasure and the dead
bodies that were going to be found in the
Manor chalk hole," that the Colonel grew
very angry. He was still more disgusted
when several managers of the local papers

wrote to him requesting permission to
send a reporter for the occasion, and if the
young people had not used great exertion
to keep him to his purpose, lie would have
quashed the affair altogether.

He would, however, only consent on
condition that the actual day of the search
was kept a profound secret, and another
dav accordingly had to be fixed, which
not a little disturbed his lordship's arrangements
in town, who, nevertheless,
promised to come on the appointed day.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE COLONEL IS MADE HAPPY.

When" the day arrived, Jenny drove up to
the Manor with a dashing pair of high-stepping
ponies in a little carriage, with
Lord Huntingcroft by her side. She had
taken to riding and driving with the
natural instincts of her race, and soon
learnt to acquit herself with ease and skill,
looking particularly well on horseback
with her womanly figure, or with the whip
in her hand when driving. Lord 
had divined it was her secret
ambition to drive a pair of ponies, and he
had sent her down these and the carriage

from town as a present; and never were
there two greater friends, as she was not in
the least afraid of him, and he delighted
in her frank naturalness.

Dick drove over the new Squire of
Ixstead in a dog-cart, following behind.

When they arrived at the Manor, they
found several suspicious-looking light carts
about, and a large crowd near the outer
gate.

The devil fly away with them ! ' cried
the Hon. Dick, " they have discovered the
day ! But who could have let the cat out
of the bag ? '

The matter was very simple. It had
been known that Lord Iluntingcroft was
coming down to be present at the great
search, and his arrival had been daily
watched for with as much care as if he
were a favourite for the Derby.

They found the poor old Colonel in a
great state of indignant excitement. "Two
rascally reporters had had the impudence
to send in their cards," and he had also
discovered the crowd at the outer gate.

But Lord Huntingcroft, well used to
elections, made light of the matter, and the
Colonel in the end consented to go on with
the search, though he hotly refused to
admit either of the reporters. His lordship,
always with an eye to elections,
thought this rigorous exclusion was a
little unnecessary, but he did not make any
remark. It was a private house, after all,
and the Colonel was in his rights.

At length the exploring party were
mustered in the long passage leading to
the old dairy, armed with pickaxes and
shovels, and with lanterns and lights of
every description. A more riotous-looking

assembly has been seldom seen in a quiet
country house in these unromantic days.

The Colonel had such confidence in
Harrison's practical abilities, that he gave
him the command of the executive.

The old Rector and his sexton — who
was also of the party — from their professional
knowledge of interments, were
expected to supply the necessary jiair in
hunting for the body of Van Goyen.

As soon as they had entered the old
dairy, the Colonel — with a scent for inquisitive
intruders at all times keen, but
now greatly sharpened —caught sight of a
strange face peeping down at them through
the gratings of the dairy window. He
stopped the proceedings, and indignantly
sent off Harrison to turn out this "impudent
and audacious fellow."

The latter returned before long declaring

he could find no one in the garden. But
he took an opportunity of whispering to
his old friend Spilled, his opinion that
that money-grubbing fellow, John, had
been bought."

They now entered the passage leading
to the chalk hole.

The old sexton was sure the body would
be found in the deepest part of the cave,
and advocated their searching there first
with much professional tenacity.

In truth, the chalk hole was such a
large place, it was difficult to decide whereto
begin, and such differences of opinion
now arose, and such time was wasted in
discussion, that Lord Huntingcroft, who
did not find the air of the place remarkable
for its warmth or dryness, began to be
rather alarmed at his rashness in coming
there, and to regret that he had not brought

with him a foreman from one of his mines,
famous for his sagacity in subterranean
matters.

The opinion of the Rector in the end
prevailed. He thought that, as there was
a treasure in the case, it would be better to
search first near the entrance, as that was
the place experience had shown was often
adopted for purposes of concealment, being
the least likely to be suspected. So at
length they set to work at the ground beneath
their feet.

A strange scene they presented. John
Spilled and Sir Francis, Harrison and
the sexton, digging and shovelling withall
their might, the rest standing round
with lights in their hands, and the quaint
old underground passage, that had not
been disturbed for more than a century
and a half, resounding to the noise of

eager voices and the blows of pickaxes
and shovels.

Mary stood by, admiring the strength and
vigour of her lover ; indeed, he would have
made a splendid navvy, or number five in a
University eight. The Hon. Dick, inconsequence
of his recent illness, was forbidden
to take an active part in the proceedings,
and he was more interested, to say
the truth, in watching the effects of light
on Jenny's famous hair than in the results
of the search. Soon they dug up a huge
clasp knife, such as were worn by sailors in
old days. This rusty old implement, which
had probably taken part in many a daring
adventure, caused not a little excitement,
and the old passage rang with the exclamations
of anticipation. But after much
fruitless labour, nothing more was found
here, and another council of war was called.

This time it was decided to follow the
advice of the sexton, and they proceeded ina
body to the large open space in the
centre of the cave that lias been described
before.

Sir Francis now exhibited an unusual
amount of practical common sense for the
scion of such a feather-brained race, and
suggested that they should probe the
ground with some sharp instrument before
they proceeded to dig further. Harrison,
who found his back already beginning to
ache with such unwonted exertion, caught
at the suggestion, and rushing off to the
kitchen, to the great astonishment of Eliza,
he seized an armful of old spits of different
sizes, and soon returned with them.

With these they now thrust and probed
in every direction into the soft chalk
which lay at the bottom of the hole. For

some time, nothing could be found, but at
length John Spilled thrust his spit into
something that sounded hollow. Again
the excitement revived, which rose to fever
heat when they unearthed a large tea chest.
The old sexton " was sure he was right."
Bat, alas ! on opening the lid, they found
only sundry packages of mouldy tea, almost
in powder, a dozen yards of French silk,
apparently little injured, a few rusty
cooking utensils, and a long tin canister
with a marine chart in it and the word
Raven" written on the cover.

After much searching and several false
alarms, nothing more was discovered in this
part of the cave, and they held another long
consultation. His lordship buttoned up
his coat a little tighter, and thought of his
afternoon whist in St. James's Street.

But Mary had now a brilliant inspiration.

She thought that the smugglers of old
were not common murderers, and that they
mifrht have had a conscience and buried
their victims close to the church.

The Rector seized the truth of this idea,
and they all set off for the passage
terminated by the church wall.

On arriving here, they found the chalk
soil close to the wall looser than it had
been elsewhere, and Harrison very soon
struck something hard with his spit. The
excitement became intense when they uncovered,
first a leg-bone, and then a complete
skeleton, mixed with thick dust,
decayed fragments of cloth, a leathern
sword-belt, and some naval buttons nearly
black with age. They took out the whole
skeleton and put it together on the ground.
It was that of a man of great strength and
stature. Tresses of black hair still clung:

to the skull, which had a deep fracture on
the left side of the forehead that had
penetrated through the brow to the eye,
as if it had been done with a heavy cutlass
or axe. Sir Francis thought that Yan
Goyen must have been killed in fair fight,
judging from the position and nature of
the wound, rather than that he had been
murdered in cold blood. They then
searched round the place where the
skeleton was found, but there was no sign
of the chest of silver money. At length
Jenny probed in the corner to the right,
and quickly found something hard underneath.
Again the excitement was so great,
that the Colonel set fire to Jenny's dress
in his eagerness to get near as they moved
the soil. This was soon extinguished by
the Hon. Dick with his hands, which were
not a little burnt in the operation.

VOL. III. 51

Harrison now dug out a large object
done up in a piece of tarpaulin, which, on
being uncovered, proved to be a round
silver vessel, shaped like a basin, and of
about the size of a big kettle-drum. Inside
this was rudely packed a number of small
sacks of silver coin.

The silver vessel had something which
looked like a handle attached to it, and
Harrison thought it was a large dish cover.
The Colonel then examined it, and gave a
shout of delight.

It is the bell of Don Carlos ! " he cried.

They held it up and struck it, when it
proved indeed to be a bell in sound condition,
and to have a very beautiful tone.

Time Colonel's transports were so great
that he did not care to look for any thing
more. The others, however, thought ita
pity not to continue their investigations.

and they proceeded to search the rest of
the passage.

During all this latter time, Lord 
had observed some one standing
in the rear of the group, bending down in
the half light, and rapidly making notes.
Apparently, the others had been too busy
and interested to notice him.

Our friend the reporter," he thought ;
and he was highly amused. But he wisely
held his tongue, fearing a prolonged detention
underground should his fiery old friend
discover the intruder.

But the Colonel, having now lost interest
in a further search, at length caught sight
of him.

Who are you, sir ? and what are you
doing here ? ' he exclaimed fiercely, going
towards the reporter.

The stranger hesitated a moment, and

then boldly said, " he was the reporter of
the Canterbury Pilgrim."

Now the Canterbury Pilgrim was a fi:
old Conservative paper, which the Colonel
had been in the habit of reading all his
life, and on a whisper from his politic
lordship, he let the reporter remain without
further comment, but thinking to himself,
" it was only another sign of the
lamentable degeneracy of the age, when
a respectable paper like that could descend
to such intrusive and impertinent conduct."

Finding nothing more, they shortly
gave up the search and returned to the
house, carrying with them the bell and the
money. The sexton was to return on the
morrow and convey the bones of Van
Goyen to the church.

Ashen the party reached the hall, great
was the discussion on their discoveries.

The Colonel could not understand how
his clock bell could ever have got down
there.

The Rector thought the matter was very
simple. The bell had been taken down
for its intrinsic value when the clock had
broken down, and exchanged with the
smugglers for their goods. In those days
ladies and gentlemen were often known to
have given even their watches and trinkets,
when money was scarce, in exchange for
brandy, tea, and silk dresses. He thought
the smugglers must have hastily buried
their effects with the body, when Van
Goyen was killed, meaning to return for
them when the disturbance made about
his disappearance had a little blown over,
and that the family had taken fright, blocking
up all the entrances to the chalk hole,
keeping a discreet silence on the matter.

It was very remarkable," he concluded
by saying, " how tenaciously traditions
were kept alive by simple country people
who had not much else to talk about."

When the Colonel opened his Canterbury
Pilgrim a few days afterwards, there was
only a very short and dry notice of the
discoveries at "Whitepatch ; but by the
same post came another Kentish journal,
the Shrimpgate Sentinel, in which there
was a long and flaming account of the
whole matter, ending up with some very
sarcastic remarks on the former wickedness
of the Doddingstead family, and on the
haughty and overbearing conduct of its
present representative.

At first the Colonel was highly indignant,
and declared he would prosecute the
Shrimjigate Sentinel for libel ; but, finally,
he joined in the laugh against himself.

He had triumphantly replaced the bell
of Don Carlos in its old position, and its
beautiful tone as it sounded the hours and
the quarters had such a soothing effect,
that his equanimity was not long disturbed
by anything now. He lay awake at night
listening to it over his head with enthusiastic
delight, happier than a schoolboy
with his first knife under his pillow.
He even forgave the mercenary and
treacherous John, whom Harrison thought
should have been dismissed.

CHAPTER Xii.

MARY IN THE COILS OF THE UNKNOWN.

On the day after the exploration of the
chalk hole, Sir Francis was obliged to
return to his own home to attend to the
numerous family arrangements connected
with his accession to the property, and to
prepare a new home for his mother, who
had declined her son's offer of remaining
in her old one.

The bones of Van Goyen were carried
off by the Rector and his sexton, and
deposited in an old chest under the tower,
until their final resting-place should be
determined, as the Rector had already

commenced an inquiry for any existing
member of the family.

Although Mary firmly believed that the
evil spirit which brought misfortune to the
family would now be laid at rest, yet the
final result of the discoveries was only to
strengthen her belief in the truth of the
traditions which surrounded her family,
and to make her more resolved than ever
to follow and obey them. A morbid dread
of impending misfortune, and an increased
fear of having acted wrongly took possession
of her mind night and day. She grew more
and more like the picture of the pale maiden
on the eastern stairs, until her devoted
friend Jenny — who constantly ran over to
see her — became seriously alarmed.

She decided to take Harrison into her
confidence, to see if any of his little medicines
would do her any good.

He, also, was alarmed about her, and
entered warmly into the matter, and Mary
was surreptitiously dosed ; but, alas, without
any effect, and he had to confess that u a
fear of ghosts beat him altogether ! '

She must have a chancre, Miss Jenny ;
that is the only remedy I can find. You
must get her over to Ixstead at once, and
amuse her, — you must give her something
else to think about. It's all that fighting
with the Colonel, and that hiding-in-a-hole
business that's upset her nerves. But
nerves is worst of all when they go wrong.
You may tonic them up tight for a bit, but
snap they go again ! '

Jenny reflected a moment. It was a
difficult matter to find anything at Ixstead
of sufficient novelty to interest and amuse
her " sick " friend.

I know," she said ; " I must get up

some entertainment. I must have a little
dance or two. She is tremendously fond
of dancing, though she does not say much
about it, because she never can get it with
the old Colonel — with all the lessons she
has had — excepting once. I must have some
dancing for her; and then we can get Sir
Francis down again. She is quite different
when he is here."

Harrison thought this an excellent idea,
but that Miss Mary's extra love of dancing
was not a good symptom either. Mad
people were always extra fond of dancing
and t music, and she looked to him sometimes
uncommonly as if she might go that
way.

There is a touch of it in the family,
you know, Miss Jenny. The Colonel, he's
quite crazy about his clocks, and her
father was more than a little queer ; he

would sit for days and hardly speak to anyone
— and she has got a look of him about
the eyes sometimes I don't at all like ! '

Jenny became still more alarmed, and
she determined to make a great effort to
stir Miss Mary up out of her ghost-fit."

On returning home, she consulted Dick.
He was of opinion they ought to get up
a good dance while they were about it, and
perhaps some theatricals ; and she could
then invite all the neighbours who had
called and offered them hospitality on their
restoration.

After a little fight with John Spilled's
modesty, it was settled they should have
a dance. Jenny had never tried her hand
at acting, neither had Dick, and the
theatricals were accordingly given up.

In a few days, then, Mary was staying
at Ixstead, and assisting her friend in the

many preliminary considerations inevitable
to these occasions.

Jenny was, no doubt, much inexperienced
in the higher duties of a hostess,
but she certainly was not so ignorant or
destitute of ideas on this subject as her
helpless appeals to Mary at this time for
advice would have led one to suppose.
But she could not prevent her friend from
dwelling on the fixed idea which had
taken possession of her mind.

Harrison had warned Jenny that she
must prevent Mary from " brooding; " and
she, finding that it was a relief to her
to talk about the subject of the ordeal,
encouraged her to do so.

Mary had found out from her Aunt
Augusta that Eichard Doddingstead had
shot his son out of the library window on
Ascension Day.

Now, Jenny, instigated by Harrison —
who since his wife's strange death had
taken a horror to the library, and more
than half believed in the appearance of the
old squire — had gradually come to the
determination, in spite of her own belief
in these matters, to prevent the ordeal
altogether if she could. Harrison had
declared that in the depressed state of
Mary's nerves a shock might have fatal
consequences.

Ascension Day on this year fell only
a short time before the wedding, and she
adroitly seized the coincidence mentioned
by Mary to induce her to put off the ordeal
until that day. She trusted to her good
luck and skill to then find other means of
putting it off altogether. She now decided
also that she would not have her dance
until the eve of that day, as this would

prevent there being any reasonable excuse
for bringing Sir Francis to Whitepatch
from his home duties.

I am sure that will be a good day, Miss
Mary, and appease the spirit of the poor
old gentleman in the library ; and I begin
to think also that my new floor will never
be re # lady much before, and then we might
have Sir Francis down for both the affairs."

Mary was a little shocked at having
such a serious matter called an " affair "
and jumbled up with a dance. She, nevertheless,
was struck with the appropriateness
of this date and the value of Jenny's
arrangement in securing her lover's presence.
She accordingly assented. A day
fixed, and one that promised to be auspicious
and convenient for her purpose, the tension
on Mary's mind lessened, and she became
a little more herself.

Jenny, seeing that all her affairs were
in good train, carried off Mary, her father,
the Hon. Dick, and Mademoiselle Julie, fora
visit to Shrimpgate, as she " was curious
to see" a place which had proved to them
such a small mine of wealth.

But a few words must be said about this
young Frenchwoman.

Jenny had taken her old friend. Mademoiselle
Julie, as her maid, notwithstanding
the protests of her father and lover.

Julie was an honest girl, although
she had lived in the ' Devil's hothouse.'
Julie had stood by her stoutly when she
first entered Madame de Gros's. Julie
had recently not got on very well with
madame, who had promoted another girl
over her head, and she had grown sick of
dressmaking and the stuffy workroom."
On a recent visit to Madame de Gros

(who treated her old pupil now with as
much amiable friendship as if she were
an extravagant young duchess), Julie had
confided her woes to her friend, and Jenny
had on the spot engaged her to come and
live with her.

You are talking nonsense, Dick ; you
don't understand French women at all !
Do you think they are as stupid as
English servants, that drag down themselves
and their masters and mistresses,
by tickle-cackling about a hole in your
stocking, and how you didn't come in till
six o'clock when you ought to have come
in at five ? No, sir ; French women are
discreet, and don't make foolish confidences
when they ought not, and if you get their
heart, they will serve you for love and not
for the wages ; and as to talking about

Madame de Gros's, the chances are that no
vol. in. 52

one will ever know from her that there is
such a place in the world. My only fear
is, I shall soon lose her now that she will
have a chance of being seen by respectable
men — respectable men, do you hear, sir ? '

The Hon. Dick beat a hasty retreat and
said no more.

Mademoiselle Julie was a superb brunette,
with a fine figure and an amiable
face, which lighted up with much animation
; and, notwithstanding her assertion
that she would never leave her friend and
mistress to marry, there was reasonable
ground for Jenny's surmise, as Mr.
Saunders, ' Sir Francis's own gentleman,'
was already much struck with her, and
even the great Mr. Finch had pronounced
her to be " tray chick."

Jenny was also determined to obey her
instincts of loyalty in another direction.

She had always retained a tender recollect
tion of her beautiful and devoted mother,
whom she had lost when a young girl, and
she resolved to invite some of her mother's
family to her wedding.

The invitations were accepted, to the
dismay of John Spilled, who had a very
lively remembrance of his wife's relatives.
He had believed that they would not
really come.

CHAPTER XV.

THE COLONEL FINDS HIS OPINION" IS MUCH

SOUGHT AFTER.

Jenny Spilled was not long in working
out a further development of her plot.

Dick was so very anxious ' that his
father and some of his friends and relatives
should grace the first festivities given by
Jenny in her newly acquired position,
that now she found she could not deny
him, and the famous dance, after all, would
have to be put off until two days before
the double wedding, when they would be
all assembled for that event.

This unsettled poor Mary's plans not a

little ; but her good feeling, as usual, and
her unselfish desire not to spoil her friend's
important gathering, made her yield without
a murmur.

She resolved, however, to find some
good excuse for bringing Sir Francis
down to the Manor for Ascension Day ;
and she shortly informed her friend that
he had promised to come.

This was another check to Jenny in
this remarkable game of honest dishonesty
against conscientious infatuation. She
felt that Mary was perfectly crazy on this
point, and that nothing but stratagem
could defeat " those horrid ghosts that had
got hold of her."

She again resolved to consult the
stronger mind of Harrison.

The proper person to prevent it, Miss
Jenny," he said, " is the Colonel ; he has

the power in his own hands. I shall take
the liberty of telling him what I think
will be the consequences if he allows it.
He doesn't perceive the strange, unhealthy
state her mind has got into."

Miss Mary is going to ask him for the
key of the library on the morning of
Ascension Day ; but he does not seem to
have the same power of saying ' no ' to her
now that he used to have," replied Jenny,
and she will persuade him into it, you
may be certain. I am afraid, too, anything
you may say will only make him want to
go the contrary. He is very likely to
think you have no right to interfere, and
will only take it as an impertinence."

Harrison admitted the truth of this, and
that it was very awkward.

Then he must be got out the way,
miss, on the morning of the day. I can

manage it. Mr. Croucher and I can manage
it without any one suspecting anything.
And you must try and persuade Miss
Mary it is a dispensation of Providence to
prevent her doing a foolish thing."

But she won't give it up, Mr. Harrison,
I feel sure. She will only persuade Sir
Francis to stay a day longer, and do it
the day after."

Then the Colonel must Be got out of
the way again ! ' replied Harrison. " You
must take your father into your confidence.
He hates that old library as much as I do,
and I know he will help us. He must fish
up some excuse for taking him off early
the next day, if Sir Francis stops."

The two confederates having settled the
details of their plot, Jenny returned to
Ixstead somewhat reassured.

*****

On the eve of Ascension Day Sir Fran'
duly arrived at Whitepatch, though not a
little torn asunder between love and duty,
as he had experienced a good share of the
usual impediments and delays incidental to
the work he had undertaken to accomplish.

Mary, after a lengthy debate in her
own mind, and many consultations with
the perfidious Jenny, had finally settled
her plan of action — the arguments and
entreaties she should use with her grandfather
to obtain the key of the library, the
exact hour she should take her lover there
afterwards, and what she should do when
she had entered the room.

Never had Sir Francis found the poor
gentle maiden more charming than she was
that evening, though he wondered not a
little at the extraordinary brilliancy of her
eyes. She clung to him in spirit with all

the might of her heart, and felt more
keenly than ever how hard it would be to
give him up. If some beneficent fairy had
whisked them off and married them at
that moment, she would have been only
too glad to yield to her fate, whatever it
might be. But with her, as with her
grandfather, a preconceived idea of some
definite line of conduct clearly marked out
kept a fixed hold on her mind that no
subsequent vibrations of feeling could
easily shake now. He had been forced to
yield by the sting of his own conscience,
which charged him with selfishness and
careless neglect. Mary had only her great
love to combat, and a fear of selfishness
and a wilful neglect of a higher power to
urge her on. She felt herself, also, carried
forward, as it were, by some invisible
might over which she had no control.

Before breakfast on the next morning,
the Colonel received a message from Mr.
Croucher, his agent, begging that he
would do him the favour of riding over as
early as he could, as the new tenant (the
Radical the Colonel had admitted by
mistake) was cutting down timber.

This red rag perfectly answered the
purpose for which it was intended, and to
Mary's consternation, breakfast was no
sooner finished, than Harrison quietly
announced that the Colonel's horse was
at the door.

Now, he was not a little ashamed of his
Radical tenant — who had proved a thorn
in his side from the very beginning — and
his carelessness in admitting him, and he
would never condescend to speak on the
subject ex-officially. So he rose and departed
without a word of explanation.

When the Colonel arrived at his destination,
the unfortunate man's delinquency
turned out to be of not much importance,
or of a novel character ; but he, Colonel
Doddingstead, did not go all that way for
nothing, and he came down on the man
with more than usual asperity. The
tenant lost his temper ; then the Colonel
lost his, and then Mr. Croucher became
very hot, or pretended to, and such a nice
little squabble ensued over a bit of timber
worth at the outside not more than sixpence,
that a good hole was made in the
morning before the Colonel rode off the
field, after a doubtful victory.

Then his agent took him to see some
new farm buildings, some new fences and
drainage, and he showed such an unusual
disposition to let the Colonel have his own
opinion about how things should be done,

that he quite enjoyed himself, and graciously
accepted an invitation to honour
Mrs. Croucher at luncheon.

This state banquet terminated, he then
allowed himself to be carried off to an outlying
farm some five miles distant from
Whitepatch.

Here there were so many things Mr.
Croucher wished to have his opinion upon,
which was never once disputed, that the
time quickly passed, and he did not arrive
home until very late, after a most delightful
day.

Mary had refused to go for a ride with
Sir Francis, and had remained with him
all day about the garden in feverish expectation
of her grandfather's return.

When he did not appear until too late,
she determined to make an effort to keep
her lover for another day.

Sir Francis thought that he " really
must go — everything was behindhand."

But Mary sang to him so divinely his
favourite songs, and clung to him so
earnestly as she said " Good night " at the
foot of the stairs, that he was unable to
resist the temptation of yielding to " one
day more."

That night, Harrison, before he went to
bed, had learnt from Mr. Saunders, that
we were going to stay another day."

The next morning, when Mary returned
to the hall after breakfast to find her
grandfather, she saw him walking off with
John Spilled through the outer gate.

By a remarkable coincidence, the latter
was anxious to have the Colonel's opinion
on a horse he was thinking of buying, and
that was coming over early that morning
to Ixstead.

Now, as a rule, John Spilled was as little
disposed to listen to the Colonel's opinion
on horseflesh as Mr. Croucher was on
drainage and fencing, and being secretly
much flattered by this marked confidence
in his judgment, he followed his ex-coachman
with cheerful readiness.

But when they reached Ixstead, the
horse had not yet arrived, nor did it seem
quite clear when it would ; and it was a
good instance of the power of acting which
really lies at the bottom of all human
nature when circumstances call it forth,
that John Spilled — to whom anything of
this kind was entirely foreign — could now
get up a sham surprise at the horse's
non-appearance that at any rate deceived
the Colonel. He was also (dramatically)
certain that the horse would appear before
long.

The fact is, Spilled had sent for a horse
which he thought was in the market, but
finding on his return that it had been sold,
he had not the presence of mind to confess
the truth, or find another expedient for
detaining the Colonel.

His confederate, Miss Jenny, however,
now stepped forward and relieved him of
his role of artful deceiver, in which, it
must be confessed, she was not without
some accomplishment.

The Colonel must see her new poultry-yard.
She wanted him to tell her if he
thought the Workings that had been sent
her were of a good breed.

He took little interest in poultry, and
scarcely knew a Dorking from a Cochin
China — wherein, Miss Jenny, it must be
observed, was quite an expert ; nevertheless,
he was always charmed to give " his

opinion ' on most things. To Jenny's
extreme amusement, he decided that her
coloured Workings with spotless toes were
too big and " regular mongrels." She must
change them. He could recommend her
an excellent man at Canterbury to go to.

She then trotted him all round the
gardens to exhibit the improvements she
was making.

Here the Colonel was quite at home, and
he gave her much excellent advice, which,
it is to be feared, was a good deal thrown
away — for is it not a common habit intaking
advice, to believe more in the
person who gives it than in his capacity
for doing so ?

Jenny, however, made herself so extremely
agreeable and fascinating, that the
old gentleman was charmed — for Jenny
was a very good-looking young woman,

after all — and he humbly thought to himself
that it must have been his own fault
they never could get on together before.
He even consented to remain to luncheon,
and inspect her new floor.

After this, the horse still did not appear,
and the two elders went out and groaned
in sympathy over the " new-fangled '
stables. Here, it was unnecessary for
Spilled to act a part.

No horse turning up, Jenny then insisted
upon taking the Colonel out in her pony
carriage. " She was thinking of changing
their sides," and again wanted his opinion.

She kept him out a long time, chattering
to him the whole way on every conceivable
subject, and finally the Colonel again
arrived home very late, after another most
delightful day.

Our poor heroine was in despair. Sir

vol. in. 53

Francis bad been so decided in saying be
must return on the morrow, and bis reason
for leaving was so good and honest, that
she could not ask him to stay any longer.
There remained, however, yet one day
clear — the day before the wedding, when
he would be staying at the Little Sack,
and she endeavoured to make him promise
to dine at the Manor on the evening of
that day, as she intended to make her visit
to the library at dusk immediately after
dinner.

Sir Francis now confessed that he feared
it was doubtful if he should be able to
come at all for the dance at Ixstead ;
coming down from town only on tail'
morning of the wedding.

But Mary drew such a picture of her
disappointment, and the Blight it would
be to Jenny and his friend Dick, on an

occasion of this kind, that he yielded,
promising to come for the dance, even if
he had to return the same night by posting
to town.

CHAPTER Xii.

THE WEDDING GUESTS.

The Count and Countess de Boulogne,
their family and suite, have arrived at
Ixstead, the seat of John Spilled, Esquire,
for," etc., etc.

Such was the announcement in the
Shrimpgate Sentinel a few days before the
Ixstead dance.

The Count de Boulogne was a tall,
vigorous-looking old gentleman with a
storm-beaten face, hair perfectly white, and
a complexion that resembled old leather.
His dress was somewhat remarkable, and
not at all resembling the ordinary English

notion of a French grand seigneur. It
had a decidedly seafaring cut about it, and
if it were not that the Count had such an
air of substantiality and authority, and that
he wore a little bit of red ribbon at his
button-hole, and a foreign dress, he might
easily have been taken for a fine old
Greenwich pensioner. The Countess was
equally remarkable in appearance. She
also was a fine-looking old lady, with an air
of still greater authority than the Count,
and wore the costume of her native Picardy,
modified after the peculiar fashion of her
native town ; her earrings and neck-ornaments
were as large and solid as gold
nuggets, and her high cap was a marvel of
pleated fine linen and snowy whiteness, and
her very short petticoats exhibited a pair
of still very shapely ankles, terminating in
neat shoes. One's first impression, however,

about her was, that she would be a very
tough hand to encounter in a bargain.
The family," consisted of two vigorous
little black-eyed damsels of the ages often
and twelve, in the same dress as the
Countess, their grandmother ; and the
suite consisted of a rebellious-looking little
French bonne.

These distinguished people were in fact
the maternal grandfather and grandmother
and two little cousins of Jenny's, who had
come over from Boulogne for the wedding.

John Spilled could not get over his
ancient terror of this redoubtable couple,
though he had never seen them since his
own marriage, and he wished they had not
come. The Count, also, had modestly objected
to present himself on this occasion ;
but he was instantly overruled by the
Countess, who reigned supreme in all

matters connected with dry ground, after
the manner of her vigorous race.

The Hon. Dick laughingly declared they
had received their title from Julie, who had
taken a mischievous pleasure in baffling the
persevering inquiries of our old friend the
enterprising reporter. However that maybe,
it is not polite to inquire too closely
into such matters on an occasion of this
sort, and Count and Countess they must
remain during their short stay on English
soil. One thing, however, was certain. The
Count had received the cross of the legion
of honour for services rendered to Napoleon
the Third, at a certain crisis in the Crimean
war, when good seamen were greatly
needed at a moment's notice. The manners
of these worthy people also had a certain
distinction and dignity, and that inborn
sense of knowing how to behave for which

their whole nation was once so famous, and
which still retains amongst most of its
better sort of inhabitants. The old seaman
found it hard work at first to dispose of his
time, but Jenny soon set him to work to
readjust the rope of the well, a tremendous
affair of nearly five hundred feet in
depth, by no means uncommon in this
waterless part of the county. Then he was
to assist his granddaughter in the decorations
of the great hall, where the dancing-was
to take place ; and so much did Jenny
hind on her hands to do, that she had
declared to the Hon. Dick that u she should
never find time to get married on the day
fixed," which, however, her lover did not
take for gospel, having a sublime faith in
Jenny's powers of doing any tiling to time
if she chose.

The Countess, however, took an immei

interest in examining all the possessions of
her son-in-law and her granddaughter, and
estimating to a sou what they would be
worth in France ; and as money and prosperity
were her gods, they were now to her
the greatest people in the world. The little
maidens revelled in scampering about the
rambling old house and the pleasant gardens,
dancing and clinging round the Hon.
Dick, who was their especial friend and
provider of nice things to eat at odd times.
The entrance hall at Ixstead, in which
the dancing was to take place, was the
finest in all the county round, and as large
as a provincial town hall, with a high-peaked
wooden roof, and a large gallery
running across the end of it, and many a
gallant fete had taken place there in past
times. But it had a stone floor. This
little matter, however, was not allowed to

stand long in the way by the enterprising
Jenny. As soon as the dance was decided
upon, Mr. Tumber was quickly at work
with a large staff of extra hands, taking
up the old stone flags and laying down a
new oak floor in their place. " It would be
warmer in the winter," she declared, for one
thing. " And then, when she was forced to
become a married woman with a husband
fond of rummaging about, she must have
a little amusement at home to keep him off
the everlasting railways ; " thereby showing
her knowledge of one of the secrets of
domesticating an active married man with
plenty of money.

Then came the question of decorating
this hall for the occasion. The Count put
his hands behind his back with his leers far
apart and considered. He thought ship's
flags would be the thing. Jenny caught

the idea, and saw its adaptability to the
place. With the assistance of Harrison's
relations at Deal, and the Count's own
friends at Boulogne, many long canvas
bags full of gay bunting soon arrived.
Some of these the Count mounted on poles,
with bunches of flowers at the top, and
arranged against the walls singly (not in
groups of threes) to hang forward lance
ways ; others were hung in profusion from
the wooden roof; these, with the assistance
of more flowers and green stuff, made the
old hall look particularly gay and cheerful,
though from the sailor-like way in which
the flags were arranged, it was strongly
suggestive of a nautical wedding, and the
Hon. Dick nearly got his ears boxed for
saying that " some one would have to
dance a hornpipe after supper."

Then there had been the question of

the music. Dick, who had negotiated the
former engagement with Monsieur de
Orchestra for the General, proposed they
should have him again. Jenny assenting,
he was engaged. Monsieur sent to inquire
the size of the place that would be allotted
to him, as he had a lively recollection of
the " detroit enfer ' he had formerly been
enclosed in. Having been assured that
it was a large gallery, he made his plans
accordingly with his usual enthusiasm, and
even ordered a new dress-suit for the
occasion. He was also much gratified by
another little matter. The Colonel, on
hearing that he was coming, and recollecting
with shame his former treatment, sent
him also a gracious invitation for the
wedding breakfast, if "his numerous engagements
would enable him to honour
them with his presence."

The supper was to come from Messrs.
Cobweb and Souffle in town ; and the Hon.
Dick undertook the responsible office of
head butler. Thus, by the day of the dance,
everything was in order and readiness.

We must now take a run across to
Whitepatch, and see what they are about in
that ancient abode. There also, great were
the preparations for the wedding breakfast,
and the reception of the guests who were
to arrive. Lord Hunting-croft and his
daughter and her husband with their little
girls, who were to be Jenny's bridesmaids,
were to put up at Ixstead ; also some of
Dick's old brother officers, one of whom was
to be his best man. But at Whitepatch,
they were to have two of Sir Francis's
younger sisters, who were to be bridesmaids
to Mary, his brother, his uncle and aunt,
from Paris, with their daughter (another

bridesmaid), and some more ex-brother
officers, and male friends of Sir Francis, one
of whom, his cousin, was to be his best man.
There were also to be the Brambles, and
Miss Grandison. Lady Wyldeman pleaded
ill-health and her weeds as an excuse for
not appearing. Sir Francis feared his
mother had not forgiven the Colonel for
his animosity to Sir John, though she had
been very kind in her letters to Mary.
Neither would the Colonel ask Lady
Worthingham, which that good lady
resented bitterly, saying, " That it was
she who had found a husband for his
granddaughter after all ! ' But it was
himself the good Colonel had not really
forgiven for the little fiasco he had made
about Mary's marriage.

CHAPTER XVII.

JENNY SPILLETT's DANCE.

The excellent John Spilled was very shy
in receiving his guests, many of whom he
had known all his life in another capacity.
Neither could Jenny make him put on his
white gloves, which he dangled awkwardly
in his work-stained hands. But nothing
had been more popular than his restoration
to his rights, and every one treated him
with marked kindness and attention. The
Count was infinitely more at his ease, and
he and his belongings created great interest
from their novelty and originality ; and as
for the Countess and the little French

maidens, who were allowed to be at the
hall, they were as natural as if they had
been accustomed to that sort of thing all
their lives. Lady Walsall would not allow
her two little daughters to sit up for the
dance, a very proper arrangement, no doubt,
but which all the same sent those little
creatures to bed with grief in their hearts,
only to wake up with fresh sorrow when
they heard the music and all the gay
doings below.

The dance opened with a quadrille. In
the top set were Jenny and her grandfather
the Count de Boulogne, Colonel Nodding
and the Countess de Boulogne, Mary
and Sir Francis's best man, the Hon. Dick
and the elder of the little French maidens.
Sir Francis and the other little French errand
Lord Iluntingcroft and Miss Doddin instead.


John Spilled had refused to dance, declaring
he should only knock some one
down.

Monsieur de orchestra had strengthened
and selected his band with great pains, and
made a careful choice of his music for the
evening. The Hon. Dick also, at a hint
from the Colonel, had taken care this time
that he should be treated with all the
respect and attention due to such an excellent
and genuine artist, and he was in
high spirits and delighted with his gallery,
though he stared down with not a little
astonishment at the Count and Countess
and their two grandchildren. Soon, however,
the old hall resounded to his lively
and inspiring music.

The Hon. Dick and Sir Francis were
delighted and surprised by the spirited
dancing of the little maidens and their

VOL. III. 54

knowledge of a quadrille. The vigour of
the Countess, however, was almost too
much for the good old Colonel, but he
resumed the steps of his youth, almost
without thought, and their performance
was much admired by the lookers-on. The
Count also displayed a remarkable activity
at the other end of the set, to the great
amusement of Lord Huntingcroft, though
his partner secretly thought him " a dreadful
old man," and that nothing would
induce her to dance with him.

Our heroine of the evening was as good
as her word, and entirely eclipsed every
other woman in the room excepting Mary,
who was radiant in loveliness that evening
but the old sad look was lurking in her
eyes. Jenny's brilliant skin and unusually
fine shoulders appeared to great advantage
in an evening dress. She was also radiant,

with happiness ; and the brightness of
her eyes could be seen the length of the
hall. She had also persuaded herself that
by her skilful diplomacy Mary would be
yet married without a visit to " that horrid
old room." But Mary had not altered her
resolution.

If Monsieur de orchestra had a fault, it
was that of not giving quite sufficient time
between the dances, according to English
notions ; but although this cut short the
flirtations, and made the lazy men work
harder and be more on the alert than they
cared for, yet it made the evening "go" with
a life and spirit that can rarely be obtained
when there are long pauses between the
dances. But monsieur thoroughly understood
his business, and was always as
honestly anxious that the evening should bea
success as if he were the hostess herself.

Now he produced a charming waltz
called La Veille des Noces, which he had
composed expressly for the occasion, and
dedicated to Mary and Jenny. Mary had
her first waltz with Sir Francis, Jenny and
Dick floated round the room exchanging
tender reminiscences of their first meeting,
and the little maidens danced charmingly
together to the delight of all the elders in
the room.

The decorations of the hall were much
admired, and were even a novelty in this
corner of England — though the Hon. Dick
had declared " it was surrounded by the
sea." The flags were real ship's flags,
and not draper's imitations of the same,
arranged naturally by a real sailor, and
not in the stiff way so commonly adopted
by landsmen.

Then came the lancers. But what is

this? Miss Doddingstead standing up
with the Count, and Lord Huntingcroft
with the Countess ! Miss Doddingstead
spoke French very imperfectly, but Lord
Huntingcroft acquitted himself with distinction,
and received many compliments
from his partner on his good accent. He
did not find her after that in any way out
of place, and was even heard to declare she
was an extremely intelligent old woman ;
which, by the way, no one had ever doubted
after five minutes conversation with her,
particularly if it happened to be on any
matter of business !

And so the evening wore on. The supper
was excellent, if it had not the quaint old-fashioned
charm of the one at Whitepatch.
Harrison had come over and assisted with
his " advice," which had, however, somewhat
clashed with the ideas of the men

from Cobweb and Souffle's. He, however,
carried matters with a high hand, as an
old personal friend of the master and
mistress of the house, very much to the
improvement of the general arrangements,
considered from an anti-conventional point
of view.

It had been decided that the dance was
to end soon after midnight, and there were
only two more waltzes left, when there was
a commotion at one of the doors of the hall.
Soon the cry of fire was raised, and a great
light was seen in the high windows of the
hall above the dancers' heads. The music
stopped, and the panic became general.

At Ixstead, the kitchens, offices, housekeeper's
room, etc., were separated from
the house and joined to it by a long
wooden gallery or passage with glass
windows in the upper part running nearly

its entire length. This gallery communicated
with the hall at one end bv double
doors.

According to the old friendly custom
in this part of the world, the servants were
admitted to see the dancing, and they
thronged the doorway from the kitchen
and part of the large gallery for the
musicians, leaving the kitchen department
entirely deserted.

How the fire arose was never known,
but it was supposed to have originated in
the housekeeper's room. There was a high
wind, and soon the whole block of the old
constructions behind was blazing with
fury, and the flames spreading towards the
house. There was little water on the
premises, except in the deep well at the
bottom of the court, and the house itself
was in extreme peril.

Now was the promptitude and presence
of mind of an old sailor seen to great
advantage. The Count had rushed outwith
some of the other gentlemen and
servants to the scene of disaster, and he
instantly took command of the situation.
The flames had already seized on the end
of the long wooden passage, and the smoke
was pouring in with blinding thickness.

Detruisez le corridor ! ' he shouted
above the din, and he threw himself withall
his weight against one side of the
wooded structure. His example was
quickly followed by the stalwart Harrison
and the mighty Sir Francis, but the old
woodwork had been too honestly and
solidly made to be easily forced out.

11 Des hommes ! ' shouted again the old
sailor, and some more of the gentlemen and
servants threw their weight on the side

of the gallery. At length they forced it
outwards, with the glass of the windows
crashing and flying in all directions.

L'autre cote' ! " he again cried.

Here there was the danger of bringing
the roof of the gallery on their heads, but
it still retained its position, notwithstanding
that one side had been forced out.

Vivement, ensemble ! ' once more
shouted the hardy old veteran of many
struggles betwixt life and death.

They now all rushed in a body at the
other side, and it fell over, carrying with
it the roof — which was still partly attached
to it — to the ground. They now set to
work to tear away the wooden structure
from its holdings and drag it to a safe
distance from the house. There were
plenty of strong hands, and the work w r as
soon accomplished, and they trusted the

house would be saved if the wind did not
carry the sparks to the roof of the old halL

Inside, all was dire confusion and fright.
Some of the women ran screaming in all
directions ; others fainted on the ground,
as they heard the shouts of the men and
the crashing fall of the wooden partition,
and saw the glaring light through the
windows on the flags in the roof — which
looked as if they themselves were on fire.
The roaring of the flames outside could
also be distinctly heard within.

Jenny and her grandmother preserved
their presence of mind, and endeavoured to
calm the others and prevent them from
rushing out into the cold air, though she
was sick at heart with anxiety about her
rash Dick. He, however, was one of tlu>
first to come in and assure thei that all
danger was at present averted ; but his

hands were bleeding from the broken glass,
and he was begrimed with smoke and dirt.

The seasoned old buildings behind, which
had much wood in them, soon burnt themselves
out, and tranquillity was restored ;
but the dance came to an end, and before
long most of the guests departed.

Sir Francis was as black as a chimney
sweep, and his eyes were much inflamed
by the heat and smoke ; but he was otherwise
unhurt. The old seaman, however,
had not escaped without a severe cut on
his forehead, and his shirt front was
covered with blood.

But, alas ! alas ! Jenny's wedding-dress,
which had arrived late that evening, and
had been left in the housekeeper's room,
was completely destroyed !

Now, what did this portend ? The burning
of a heroine's wedding-dress on the

eve of her marriage ? I have questioned
all the witches and professors of the black
art in the library of the British Museum,
but can find no portent or prediction bearing
on this cruel case. But surely, unbelievers,
in such a decided fatality as this,
cannot have the hardihood to pretend that
it only meant she would have to find
another !

CHAPTER XVIII.

Trial BY GHOST.

All Jenny's diplomacy was defeated by
her own dance. Sir Francis had made his
arrangements to start for town that same
night, and take an early train into the
county to make a final inspection of his
mother's new home ; but his eyes soon
became so painful and inflamed, that his
friends would not hear of his going, and
he returned with the Hon. Dick to the
Little Sack to put himself under the care
of Mrs. Crippin, who was a noted practitioner
of old women's remedies.

Mrs. Crippin got out of bed with remarkable
cheerfulness to repair the damage
sustained by Sir Francis; and Miss lumber,
also, had to rouse herself from a deep sleep
to go down and light the kitchen fire.

The next morning, however, found no
improvement in our hero's condition ; his
eyes were still inflamed, and his patience
was beginning to be sorely tried by Mrs.
Crippin's voluble activity — when a rival
amateur doctor appeared early on the field
in the person of Harrison.

He came armed with authority in the
shape of a little note to Sir Francis from
the anxious Mary, and he immediately took
possession of the patient.

Mrs. Crippin's " publishing mess had only
been doing harm;' and he flung it contemptuously
out of the window under her
nose.

Hereupon, ensued such a battle royal,
and such " tinkering old idiots," and
"bloated garments" were hurled in the air
that the Hon. Dick lay in his bed on the
other side of the little passage, with a
corner of the sheet stuffed into his mouth —
such high dignitaries belabouring each
other like fish wives was indeed too
delightful, and he never ceased giving an
account of it afterwards to Jenny.

Harrison, however, soon cut the matter
short, and proceeded to attend to his simple
case ; whereupon Mrs. Crippin retreated
to the kitchen to expend her wrath on
Mr. Finch and Miss Tumber.

When he returned to the Manor, he was
able to assure Mary that the injury was
not serious, and that if Sir Francis followed
his instructions, and took his little medicine
as he had directed, he would be well

enough to come over and see her in the
afternoon.

Mary did not doubt that Sir Francis
would obey her earnest entreaties, and
follow the directions of Harrison, and she
now proceeded at once to carry out her
important project of obtaining the ordinary
key of the library from her grandfather,
as she could not reach it through the
secret passage, a strong lock having
been mysteriously placed on the door of
the closet under the stairs soon after her
release from captivity.

The Colonel had left his guests to amuse
themselves, and had retired to his own room
to attend to his usual affairs.

Mary found him busily engaged in looking
over his ascent's accounts, not in the
best possible humour, and inwardly swearing
for the millionth time at the rascally

mischief the repeal of the corn laws had
effected on those pillars of the state, country
gentlemen. Things were going from bad
to worse, and soon there would be nothing
left to do but to turn one's whole property
into a great park for one's own private
recreation. If he had not had the good
fortune to have a solid nest-egg in the
funds, he might yet live to die in the workhouse.


Grandpa, Frank's eyes will soon be
well again ; he is coming over this afternoon,
and I want you to let me take him
to see the old library," said Mary, coming
to the side of his chair, and putting her
hand gently on his shoulder.

My dear child, it is not fit to be seen ; '

then, repenting of his subterfuge, he added,

To say the truth, I do not wish him to

see it for the present."
vol. in. 55

"But why, grandpa ? He must see it
some day or another. I am sure he must
have always thought it strange, and
wondered what reason you could have for
keeping him out."

Nonsense, my dear ; every man has a
private place to keep his papers in."

Mary perceived it was no use beating
about the bush, and that she must brave
his anger and come to the point direct.

Grandpa," she said solemnly, " I
must tell you something. I have been in
the library once, and have seen what
Richard Doddingstead wrote on the
window, and I believe it — it's quite terrible.
I fear that I might bring some dreadful
misfortune on us all if I do not take Frank
there before we are married."

The Colonel shifted in his chair, and
became uneasy.

You are quite silly, Mary, to believe
in such superstitious old rubbish ! I thought
you had more good sense. Are you sure
it was ever written by Richard Nodding
I have a great idea those lines
were written by his daughter Augusta, who
was a half-read sort of person, and wrote
weird poetry. I have some of her precious
effusions up in the library now, and I beg
that you will not imitate her, and fill your
head with such fiddle-de-dee nonsense ; she
quarrelled with her lover about some stuff
of that kind. They say she wanted to make
him stay up alone all night on the east
stairs — and you will be quarrelling with
your husband some day about the same
kind of things you don't take care ; I am
inclined to think he has got a will of his
own, as you have yet to discover."

Mary stood a few moments in deep

silence, and as still as the table by her

side.

At length she said, " Grandpa, Frank
knows nothing about it, nor do I mean to
say anything to him at present ; I only wish
to take him there before we are married,
and obey those words, that I may bring
no misfortune on him or myself afterwards
by disobedience to those powers of which
we know nothing. I feel that I cannot
marry him until we have been there
together."

Is the girl going mad ? ' cried the
Colonel. " If you begin playing with such
things as that already, what will you come
to by-and-by ? We shall be having you
in a strait waistcoat some day ! ; Then he
said more kindly, " I do not wish it,
Mary ; we have too much of that sort
of thing about the old house already, and

I had hoped it would die out in your
generation."

Mary again entreated him to allow her
to follow her own instincts in the matter ;
adding that, " now she had seen the writing
on the window, she felt that she must obey
it at any sacrifice."

This comes of women's prying ! You
ought never to have entered the library
without my permission. I really cannot
encourage such trafficking with the devil,"
and the Colonel sat back in his chair with
an air as if the matter had been judged,
and the sentence passed.

But it is not trafficking with the devil,
grandpa ! ' she cried. " The spirit of
Richard Doddingstead is a good spirit, I
am sure ; he was only unfortunate. And
good spirits must be obeyed, or they can
punish us as well as bad ones."

u The girl is quite mad ! ' said the
Colonel pushing back his chair, and looking
at her over his gold spectacles.

Mary commanded herself, and said slowly
in a tone of calm reflection, " No, dear
grandpa, I am not mad ; but I have lately
had something come over my nature that
makes me feel as if I had a link with the
other world, and knew what was passing
there." Again, the strange far-off look
came into her eyes.

The old gentleman stared at her with
unquiet wonderment. Mary came and
stood close to him again, smoothing his
face gently with the back of her hand.
Then she said earnestly in a low voice,
after some hesitation —

Tell me truly, did you prevent my poor
father and mother going there before their
marriage ? I dreamt lately that they

came to me [and joined their hands together
as they stood at the foot of my
bed, but when I tried to speak to them
they were gone."

The Colonel grew very grave, but remained
silent,

Because, dear grandpa," she continued,
placing one arm round his neck,
that showed that you really believed it,
though you persuaded yourself at the time
you did not. I do not wish to pain you,
but I have a feeling that perhaps the evil
might have been averted." After a short
silence, she again said with deep earnestness,
" Trust me once, dear grandpa,
and believe that women see some things
stronger than men, and do not prevent
me doing that which I feel drawn to by
some irresistible power."

Mary then stood upright, with a look of

high exaltation in her face, and with her
hands crossed before her.

The Colonel again remained silent. He
was not convinced. He had obstinately
all his life refused to believe in the spirit
of Eichard Doddingstead — chiefly because
others had done so, most people thought —
and he now determined to make a last use
of his present supreme authority over Mary
and forbid what he persisted in considering
a dangerous folly of superstition.

"No, Mary, my dear child, I cannot
allow it," he said at last, though very kindly
and gently. " I have always determined to
put an end to that foolish superstition in
the family, and I wish you, as my future
representative, to do the same and not
attempt now to revive it."

He drew his chair into its accustomed
place again, and half turned to his papers,

as if he wished her to understand that the
interview was to be terminated. He did
not believe that Mary would really break
off her marriage.

But she did not move. Presently she
said, almost in a whisper, " Grandpa,
have you never seen one of the spirits in
the house ? Do you think they have no
power, and that we are right in resisting
them ? Do you know what the poor
General saw on the night of his death ?

No ! ' replied the Colonel, turning
round again towards her.

Miss Grandison told me, and she said
last night I might tell you now, if you did
not know. You remember, he went to find
Monsieur de orchestra after the supper.
He lost his way, and got down into the passage
by the old dairy, and there the spirit of
Yan Goyen appeared to him. He became

insensible for a short time, and Lady Grandison
is certain the shock killed him, but
she did not wish you to know at the time.
He told her all about it that night. He
had never heard of that spirit before and
yet he described it precisely as others had
done."

The Colonel was moved to the putting
down of his pen, which he had again just
taken up.

And then, Mrs. Harrison. I am certain
she saw Richard Doddingstead in the
library. When they found her, her eyes
were fixed and wide open, with a dreadful
look of fear in them. Harrison told Jenny,
and he did not believe in ghosts at that
time."

She remained silent, to see the effect of
her narration.

The Colonel had a strong grain of the

superstition of his race, which he had
always resisted from pure obstinacy. He
now again recalled to his memory — which,
as in many persons of his age, was not
active about recent events — the vision he
had seen on the east stairs. He could not
honestly doubt that, and it now disposed
him to believe more readily in the others,
especially since the finding of the skeleton
of Yan Goyen. Mary's account of the
death of the General and Mrs. Harrison,
and, above all, her manner of speaking
stirred him for a moment out of his
usual fixed attitude of disbelief. He admitted
to himself that the spirit of Richard
Doddingstead might be a reality, and that
he might, for once, have been wrong in
trying to abolish the observance of the
family tradition with regard to it. But
the force of long habit still bound him

closely, and after a moment's reflection,
he felt no disposition to yield even now.
Mary was a girl, and the tradition did not
apply equally to her. He had always
made up his mind to end this " inconvenient
and sensational ' custom, and he
saw no sufficient reason for changing his
opinion now.

No, my dear child," he said, " that
writing in the window, at any rate, does
not apply to you. You are a girl ; go and
get married, and do not think anything
more about it. The real troubles of this
life will come fast enough."

Mary became desperate, and she spoke
now with an increased exaltation in the
tone of her voice.

Grandpa, do not defy the invisible
powers that are around us in this house !
Remember how the poor General made

light of them and what happened to
him."

She had taken hold of his hand and
held it tightly between her own.

The Colonel started. The account he had
just heard of the immediate cause of his
old comrade's death had touched him
more nearly than anything else. He now
vividly recalled the circumstances of his
healthy and vigorous old friend found dead
in his bed, and the painful inquest that
followed. He had always had an especial
horror of sudden deaths as " something
unnatural, as distressingly indecorous, and
as giving much freedom to familiar gossip,"
and it was the very last way he should
wish to end himself. What if his own
should be of this nature ? He again recalled
the vision on the stairs ; the dormant
spiritism inherited in his blood rose and

mastered him ; a long-prepared revolution
took place in his mind ; the strong man
quailed before the invisible.

Suddenly, Mary became an " Heir of
Whi'puth ' without a doubt. Mary was
right, and she saw clearer in this matter
than he did.

He became now as anxious for her to
pass the ordeal as she was herself, and his
whole arm trembled slightly as he unlocked
a drawer and gave her a key without a word.

Mary kissed his hand with a deep curtsey
of reverence and love, and vanished with
her fatal prize.

Late in the afternoon of that day, Sir
Francis was so wonderfully recovered that
he was down with Mary in her little
garden, and insisting upon helping her to
make some alterations in the hut of the
goat, which she was doing to tranquillize

her nerves, having escaped from the busy
and noisy preparations that were going on
for the events of the morrow.

It must be confessed our hero was not
an accomplished carpenter, and his comical
efforts to saw a plank without buckling
his saw, or departing from the line chalked
out for him by Mary, with the extreme
seriousness of his face during the operation,
would have afforded her much amusement
at any other time. But she had now far
graver matters in her head, and was thinking
only of the terrible visit at dusk she
intended making that evening.

Jenny had puzzled out the last line of
Richard Doddingstead's prophecy, and had
come to the opinion that " Hand for Hand '
meant " Hand in Hand," and that the
lovers were to present themselves with
their hands joined together. Mary had

quite determined she would not give Sir
Francis a hint of what he was likely to
see. With a mixture of strong good sense
amid all her superstition, she wished to
test the matter, without biasing her lover
in any way, as Miss Yan Tromp had endeavoured
to impress upon her that apparitions
were only the result of people-own
excited imaginations. She had carefully
studied the almanac, and found that
the sun would set at eight o'clock, and, as
they dined at seven, and as it was a clear
evening, if she could entice her lover to
leave the room with her immediately
dinner was finished, they would be in good
time to enter the library at the time of
dusk. She had decided that as soon as
they entered she would take his hand.

Frank, I want you to come with
me to-day when I leave the room after

dinner. I am going to take you to see
something."

Sir Francis was only too delighted to
fall into this arrangement ; but when he
had done so on one or two other occasions,
the poor old Colonel, who felt himself
slipped more and more into the background
of Mary's happiness, had such a melancholy
air of desertion, that she had quickly put
a stop to this lover-like though unsociable
proceeding. But there were guests in the
house now, and that would make a diversion
in his favour.

You are not to follow me out of the
room mind, as you did before, but I will
come and call you out in a few minutes,
and then grandpa won't think much
about it."

She would not tell Sir Francis what he
was to go and see, and he came to the

vol. in. 56

conclusion that it was some surprise in the
way of a present that had newly arrived,
or was to do so later in the day.

Mary at dinner, with the fatal key in
her pocket, was silent and grave, and Sir
Francis wondered much what she had on
her mind. The dinner itself was never
long at Whitepatch ; the ladies retired
early, and in a few minutes she came back
and beckoned him out.

I have got the key of the old library,
and I want you to come and see it now."

Her lover wondered again at the moment
she had chosen. On putting his arm round
her waist, as they went up the east stairs,
he found that she trembled and walked
with some difficulty. %

When they reached the door, the key
first stuck in her pocket, and then it was
some time before she could get it into the

lock. At length the door was thrown
back, and after closing her eyes a moment
to summon her resolution, she advanced
first into the room.

Sir Francis had to stoop at the low door,
and then he stumbled at the deep step
down into the room. When he recovered
his feet, he saw Mary standing motionless
between the door and the window f He
went up to her and put his arm round her
again, but she seemed speechless and rigid
and her eyes were fixed and dilated. He
could see nothing himself, but the high old
chair near the window in the dusky light.

Not so Mary ; she had no sooner
advanced into the room than she saw the
figure of Richard Doddingstead in an
antique dress, seated in the chair, with a
long fowling-piece in his hand, the butt
of which rested on the floor, and to the

right of the chair a little behind, another
figure was cowering, like that of a dead
woman in the dress of a bride.

Sir Francis began to fear Mary was ill,
and with his disengaged left hand he
seized one of hers that was hanging by
her side. Immediately an electric thrill
seemed to pass through him, and he saw
also the figure seated in the chair, but the
other figure he saw nothing of.

The spirit of Eichard Doddingstead
slowly turned its head towards them, remained
a moment in that position, and
then vanished as in a dream.

Mary recovered consciousness, and threw
herself into her lover's arms weeping
violently. Then, between her sobs, she
whispered, " Take me to my own room."

He caught her up in his arms, and
carried her like a child through the loi .

passages until lie arrived at her sitting-room,
where he placed her on the sofa and,
kneeling on the ground by her side, with
her arms round his neck, he heard the
whole story of Richard Doddingstead and
his prophecy, and how when her lover had
taken her hand, the figure of the dead
woman had instantly gone.

Sir Francis then related what he had
seen, and they conversed a long time in
the dusk of the evening ; but Mary was
comforted with the reflection that she had
done right, and the evil which had befallen
so many of her family would, she hoped,
be averted from her.

Her lover was secretly of opinion that
the sooner he got his little girl out of this
ghostly old place the better ; but he would
never disbelieve in spirits again.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE First OF JUNE.

After a very cold and remarkably late
spring, the first of June came with great
splendour. The sun smiled with unusual
brightness, as if rejoicing in the departure
of long-obstructing clouds and darkness.
The trees were out in all their fulness of
youthful beauty, before heat and dust had
faded their virgin freshness ; the cherry
orchards were even still in blossom, their
pink and white bunches glittering in the
sun against the blue of the sky ; the happy
birds darted from tree to tree, gladdening
the air with their cheerful joy ; and the

undulating country, with its narrow roads
and lanes that turn and dip and mount
again at every few hundred yards, was
thick with white hawthorn — its scent
carried by a gentle breeze, which came
with invigorating freshness from the
neighbouring sea.

Jenny was up betimes, with her window
open and the early morning sun pouring
into her room, as she stood before her
glass in her white undergoes, with her
beautiful neck and arms uncovered, and
her great masses of bright hair falling
down her back from her compact little head
like the tangled maze of a shock of corn.
Julie was by her side, and they were deep
in consultation on what she could wear to
be married in. She shrank from appearing
in a low dress to the rude gaze of a mixed
crowd, many of whom had been her fellow-servants,

and deeply grieved the loss of the
beautiful gown which Madame de Gros
had fitted with her own hands. But Julie
took a much harder and more practical
view of matters, and returned to her
opinion of the day before.

Mademoiselle must wear her ball dress,
in which she was ravissante ; she was not to
have the fear, such superb freshness could
defy the strongest daylight, and besides,
she would look a thousand times better ina
low dress with her figure than in a stiff
high one. What was the use of her having
such a skin and such a figure as that, if it
was to be all covered up ; that was very
well for women who had no skin and the
bones that could be counted ? Besides,
mademoiselle was bound, for the credit of
monsieur, to hold her own by the side of
the lovely Miss Mary ; and, moreover, the

contrast in their dress would be vraiment
artistic, and would stop the ' nasty ' comparison."


The allusion to Dick decided Jenny to
sacrifice to the becoming her little dread
of Nancy's ill-natured remarks, and her
desire to be in the latest fashion. She
was perfectly aware that she had looked
remarkably well in her ball dress, and it
was, fortunately, all white. She wanted
however, to add some lace, Madame de
Gros having gone to the height of the
fashion. But Julie would not hear of it, it
would spoil the dress, which was just right
as it was ; and when she was covered with
her veil she would be the most beautiful
bride that ever was seen.

The admiration of the dark-skinned
Julie for her fair young friend and mistress
was no doubt very genuine, but it is to be

feared she had a little of another quality to
recommend her even to the astute Jenny,
besides her friendship and her misfortunes.
Nevertheless, Jenny had been allowed on
the previous evening to be a very attractive
creature, by those who admire a pure
blonde of the robust order.

The two young heiress brides had
thought it would be very nice to be
married by the Archbishop, who had once
passed a night at Whitepatch — or at least
by the Dean. But the Colonel would not
hear of such a thing, and he protested
vigorously against the " mean practice '
of snubbing your own clergyman for the
sake of a smart announcement in the pa pi".
Maxstead had christened Mary, prepared
her for confirmation, and who knows in
this world what else he might not be
called upon to do for her, and he would

not have him put into the shade in this
way for any one.

John Spilled had wished Jenny to be
married from her own church, but Jenny
held to being married with Miss Mary —
as she still always called her — and it had
been arranged that the old Rector was to
perform the double ceremony at White-patch,
assisted by the Rector of Ixstead.

Mary's bridesmaids were the two Miss
Brambles, the two sisters of Sir Francis,
Miss Grandison, and the young lady from
Paris. Jenny's were her two little cousins
from Boulogne — two of the Rector of
Ixstead's daughters, and the two little
nieces of the Hon. Dick.

The church had been charmingly decorated
by the young ladies and gentlemen
staying in the house, under the superintendence
of the old Rector ; and the path between

the Manor-house and the church was
thickly strewn with flowers on the morning
of the wedding.

There had been some difficulty in arranging
the two processions, but it was at last
decided the Ixstead party was to enter by
the large door under the tower, at the end
of the church, and the party from White-patch
by the principal door (which had a
porch) in the nave. The pathway between
the churchyard gate and the tower door
was also strewn with flowers, and the tower
had been gaily decorated with flags from
Ixstead. Had not the Count himself come
over for this purpose at a very early hour
in the morning, astounding the natives by
his daring flights in the air, and having
his cafe au lait afterwards with the Rector.
The procession at the Manor was to be in
readiness to start as soon as the carriages

from Ixstead had arrived at the outer
gate.

As the brides entered at the doors, Mary's
fine organ, — which she had given to the
church, — burst out with a most unaccustomed
volume of melodious sounds, such as
never had been heard in the old building
before ; but Monsieur de orchestra had
bundled the unfortunate school mistress out
of her place, and presided at that instrument
himself so greatly to the advantage
of the occasion, that even Mary found time
to wonder who it could possibly be that
was playing her organ in such a magnificent
manner.

The Hon. Dick, for once in his life, was
very well dressed ; but he had of late received
several hints of remarkable frankness
that " a man of his unimposing size
couldn't afford to look as if he had slept in

his clothes," and he had been making great
efforts to reform, though Mr. Finch had
confided to Mr. Saunders that "we were
not much better than we were before, and
that if our coat was put on as smooth as a
£love, ten minutes afterwards it would be
all wrinkles up the back as if it had been
stuffed into a carpet bag." But Jenny
dearly loved her " good Dick," with all the
strength of her honest and generous heart,
and he soon learnt to take philosophically

these sharp little pricks from her needle.

Sir Francis, also, was magnificent in a
blue coat, in which his superb figure was
seen to great advantage ; and both bridegrooms
were much approved of by the
waiting crowd in the church as they stood
before all eyes in the most embarrassing
position a man has ever to take in the
course of his life. It is no wonder men
plead so hard for a quiet wedding !

As for the brides, nothing could have
been more lovely or engaging than Mary
in her bridal dress with her shy dark eyes
and sweet pale face full of tender emotion ;
and Julie was right about Jenny. A most
genuine woman did she look, her white
shoulders gleaming beneath her veil, and
her eyes shining with a frank happiness
that seemed to be above all pretence of
concealment.

The good old Rector stood ready to receive
them, very smart in a new surplice
and red hood. His kindly face had an expression
of deep sympathy and interest, as
the two brides advanced towards the altar,
that no outsider could ever have shown.

Mary pronounced the word " obey " with
clearness and decision ; but the rebellious
Jenny rather slurred it over ; doubtless,
however, she was reserving herself for

the sentence which follows " till death us
do part," which she pronounced with much
feeling and earnestness.

Monsieur de orchestra gazed down on
them a moment as they came out of the
vestry, then muttering to himself according
to his wont, " Elles sont ravissantes toutes
les deux," he sprang to his seat and poured
forth a glorious march as the two processions
filed out together in the direction
of the Manor-house.

As they sat down to breakfast, the sun
shone brightly into the dining-room windows,
and a reflected ray lit up the snow-white
head of the fine old Colonel.

Lord Huntingcroft proposed the health
of the newly married couples, which was
responded to by Sir Francis and the
Hon. Dick. The speech of Sir Francis
was simple and manly, but Dick perhaps

carried off the honours as he thanked the
assembled guests with much feeling in a
few words for the kind way they had
drunk the health of himself and — his dear
wife — (turning to Jenny) and wished that
every one present might be as happy as he
felt at that moment ! Sir Francis's best
man proposed the bridesmaids, and the best
man of the Hon. Dick responded with a
humorous little squib in good taste befitting
the occasion.

But the great speech was to come.
Monsieur de orchestra now started on
his legs, and was received with cheers,
as his genuine talent and earnestness of
character had made him quite a popular
personage. His speech, however, and
manner of delivery was so highly comical,
that not even the Colonel could preserve
his gravity.
vol. in. 57

Mesdames et messieurs, j'ai l'honneur
to speak a beetle something. It is I speak
inside all my hearts — to you. I am beetle
artiste on-ly, but I lev gret heart ! and I
do say mesdames et messieurs, it touch me
moch,oh, so deeps to see so much happiness
which I do see to-day (applause). For you,
it is all the loffs — fen suis sure ! In my
contre, helps ! it is all the monies mostly
no monies, no the loffs, no the marriage.
Here it is the loffs do com first, and the
monies do com second. It is my most
gret desire to marry som English laddie
who will loss me verra much (loud cheers ) !
Oh ! it is bueti-ful sight what I do see today
in the decayed church so full of the
perceptions of the things which do go
behind (suppressed laughter). Ah ! you
lass a beetle, but for me I do loss the things
buried in the tombstone of the affection

and the poetics which I do perceive there '
(loud laughter and cheers).

The Count and Countess regarded their
compatriot with profound respect and admiration
for his high accomplishment in
making such a brilliant speech in English.

Mesdames et messieurs ! I do wish to
the laddie brides and the gentlemen brides
all the joys the big world has got in him
(cheers). For the gentlemans, I do wish
the bridles they mak for themselves to-day
(loud laughter) will never be brocken until
the child of the grandchild do hop up to
them (laughter and cheers, and cries of
order from the Colonel). For the laddies,
I do wish they will liss as long as the
gentlemans, and when the day of afflicting
melancholy is com they shall go to runaway
together from this globe on the same
day, and be buried in the same teeth ! '

(loud and • prolonged cheers with great
laughter).

Monsieur was much puzzled by the way
his finest sentiments had been received,
but he consoled himself by reflecting that
these good English people always laughed
at the " noble sentiment." He had spent
several days, with the aid of a dictionary,
in composing his speech, but he had
crammed his brain with so many words
bearing on the occasion and the ideas he
wished to express, that he got into a slight
confusion when the great moment arrived.
He however was firmly convinced that he
had shown a great mastery over " this
terrible language." *

The Rector now proposed the health of

This picture of Monsieur de orchestra may
seem absurd and unnatural for a Frenchman of his
talent, but it is drawn from life, and monsieur came
from Provence.

the Colonel, which was enthusiastically
received, especially by the younger
members, and to which he replied with
much spirit and feeling. The breakfast
then terminated ; the travelling dresses
were put on, and the usual wild assault on
the eyes of the departing lovers took place —
a custom which not even this abolishing
age has yet dared to abolish — and why
should it ? It is a very pretty sight after
all, and speeds the parting pair.

It had been arranged the two couples
were to post separately to Canterbury,
dine there together, and proceed by the
night mail to Calais. Sir Francis and
Mary were to go on to Paris, and Dick
and his wife, it was understood, were to
proceed by easy stages into Normandy,
and after making a sketching tour in that
refreshing country, were to dazzle their

simple relations at Boulogne. It h:
however, been whispered that the two
couples, or some people very like them,
were seen . for several weeks together
exactly at this period visiting the sights
of Paris in the daytime, and occupying
boxes together at the various theatres and
operas in the evening. But surely this
must have been idle gossip ; Lady Waldemar
would never have committed herself
to such a highly improper proceeding.

But the dresses, sir ? '

Madam, I am not a man milliner, nor a
reporter for a fashionable newspaper. Let
it suffice that the ladies present did not
find many faults, and those were not very
serious ; but I have a clear recollection that
Mary went off in something very simple,
in which she looked extremely charming,
and Jenny, in something soft in blue and

green (I think), which was very becoming,
and set off her fair hair and complexion to
great advantage. But even if I were able
to give an exact description of them they
would appear to you now horribly old-fashioned
and dowdy, as it takes at least
twenty years to make an old fashion again
bearable.

A short account, however, of the presents
at a county wedding even a few years ago
must not be omitted — for ten years now
produce as great a change as fifty — or a
hundred — in former times ! They were
spread out on several large tables in the
hall, Jenny's as well as Mary's, at Mary's
particular request.

There were nineteen clocks, twenty-six
pairs of bedroom candlesticks, six complete
sets of breakfast services, at the least
twenty blotting books, nine complete

sets of writing paraphernalia in various
materials, five tea caddies, an indescribable
number of articles of the Minton
kind, chiefly remarkable for their close
resemblance to each other ; most of these
were from the tenants, servants, and small
neighbours ; bracelets, rings, and other
costly articles of jewellery ; two Bibles, sent
by Mrs. Crippin to Sir Francis and the
Hon. Dick ; a charming little set of gardening
tools for Mary, from the head gardener,
who had been fifty-one years at the Manor ;
a rare first edition of Handel's works,
elaborately bound in several volumes for
Mary, and a very dashing and dainty
driving whip for Jenny from the old
Rector ; a superb new cage for Solomon for
Mary, and a complete case of homoeopathic
medicines with book for family practice
for Jenny, from Harrison ; a beautiful

Dutch work basket in brass and wicker
from Miss Yan Tromp, who was unable
to be present ; a curious present for Mary,
which caused some astonishment by its
elegance, came from Bingham the cowman,
who had been forty years at the Manor,
this was the hoof of a favourite Guernsey
heifer of Mary's, which had been killed by
an accident, set in silver as a watch-stand ;
a silver thimble and needle-case for Mary
from Sarah, now Mrs. Longstreet ; and half
a dozen pocket-handkerchiefs beautifully
worked with her new cypher from Miss
Ransome, a present which gave Mary much
pleasure ; a case of scissors in all sizes, also
for Mary, sent by the neglected Lady
Worthingham, at which the Colonel looked
rather guiltily ; a charming collection
of airs to be played on the organ, bound in
white, for Mary, and a fine old French

chatelaine in silver for Jenny from Monsieur
de orchestra ; and last and most sensational
of all, a lovely cradle for Mary from
the cottagers, according to old custom at
the Manor, which arrived immediately
after the wedding, to the great amusement
of the assembled guests. The Hon.
Mrs. Dick whispered, blushing, to Lady
Doddingstead-Wyldeman, " that it was
ridiculous, but that she would not have
minded having one either."

Dick's friends at once christened his wife,
the " Hon. Mrs. Dick." She was greatly
admired by them, and had been fought for
desperately at the dance a few nights before.
The friends of Sir Francis thought Mary
a lovely and interesting girl, but her shyness
made them more afraid of her, though
they had infinitely more reason to be afraid
of Jenny, thereby showing the usual

penetration of this discriminating worldly

opinion any charming young lady
under the lock and key of this tyrannical
infliction, will doubtless cordially endorse.

CONCLUSION.

Two things have always struck the writer
with much force. One is, the ghostlike
appearance of the personages of a story,
when they again present themselves in a
subsequent work. To the author, doubtless,
they are old friends, in whose society he
has passed many a happy hour of quiet
toil, and he delights in seeing them again ;
not so the general public, who know them
only as the chance acquaintances of an
hour, to be more or less remembered
according to their individuality. The other
is, the disappointment one sometimes feels
in saying farewell to the characters in a

novel, without knowing what becomes of
them afterwards.

To begin at the bottom of the scale then,
Mr. Finch made a shocking mesalliance
and lost caste for ever in his own set by
falling a victim to the charms of that very
pretty kitchen maid, Ruth. Mr. Saunders
at present occupies with his charming
French wife that excellent country inn
much frequented by commercial travellers,
called the Dairy Maid and Rising Sun, the
property of John Spilled, Esq., of Ixstead,
in the county of Kent, and the Hon. Mrs.
Huntingcroft, daughter of John Spilled,
Esq., is the godmother of his eldest child.
The present housekeeper at Whitepatch is
the second wife of Mr. Harrison the butler.
She is a fine well-built woman, with a very
amiable face, and gives great "satisfaction
to her employers." It is to be feared, however,

that her health is not quite satisfactory,
notwithstanding her robust appearance,
as she is perpetually taking medicine out
of little bottles she carries in her pocket.
George the footman has been jilted by
a girl called Nancy, for his brother footman
John ; it is supposed, however, that the
girl Nancy committed this wanton act to
show a former fellow servant with whom
John had been much in love, that she was
not the only woman in the world.

That charming and cheerful little corner
residence, with windows looking in all
directions, known as No. 999, King's
Parade, Brighton, is at present occupied by
a maiden lady of good position and her
attached maid. These two pass a most
delightful time with an unlimited supply
of new novels and shop windows. The
attached maid, notwithstanding a certain

vinegar aspect, manages her mistress's little
household with great honesty and some
skill, thereby saving her from distraction
from her literary pursuits. This maiden
lady has been lately receiving a visit from
her niece, with her husband and three
children, the youngest of which, — a magnetically
sweet and tender little sprite, with
dark thoughtful eyes and bright fair hair —
is called after her, and will probably some
day receive the nice little fortune of her
great aunt and godmother. Her father,
also, is with her for a short time, though
located at the Old Ship Hotel, not many
doors off. He looks the model of dignity
and calm self-restraint and is treated with
profound respect by the fine old 
porter in the hall. When he is
alone in his country seat, she always goes
home to take care him.

The good Rector has passed away, and
his nephew reigns in his stead. He is
a terrible thorn in the side of his patron,
Colonel Doddingstead, with his perpetual
schemes for renewing the church and
introducing " ritualistic practices." The
Hon. Mrs. Huntingcroft, however, on
a recent visit to Whitepatch, shot at this
zealous young gentleman such a keenly-barbed
hint on his want of tact and good
taste, that he has " decided ' to wait until
the death of the " venerable Colonel ; '
which nevertheless does not seem at all
likely to happen at present, to judge by
the vigorous way in which he still takes his
early walk before breakfast in all weathers,
John Spilled, Esq., of Ixstead, since the
recovery of his property, has taken ardently
to hunting and shooting, and is always a
very welcome and popular person in his

part of the world. He gives his opinion
modestly, but he rides well, and is the best
judge of a horse in all the country round.
But to this day he persists in addressing his
neighbour, Colonel Doddingstead, as " sir."
Sir Francis and his friend Dick established
their wives in excellent houses in
town not far from each other. Their
beauty and romantic history made them
the lionesses of nearly the quarter of a
season. Jenny is always surrounded with
men, though she favours most the clever
ones. She has renounced her forced imitations
of Mr. Poyser, but her " unruly
tongue' has lost nothing of its vigour.
She has, however, so far, preserved herself
from the least breath of scandal ; and as for
Mary, one would as soon suspect an archbishop
of impropriety as Lady Wyldeman.
Jenny beat her friend in the honours of
vol. in. 58

maternity by at least six weeks. She had
three girls in succession, and though all
promised to be very good looking — one in
particular, who was like herself — she was
not content. At last came a boy, who,
though not at present a beauty, is a vigorous
and healthy little fellow enough, and
the greatest personage in the whole world.
Never were such rejoicing as took place at
his christening, when the Colonel and Lord
Huntingcroft stood as his godfathers, with
Mary as his godmother. Mary's two boys
are fine, mischievous little scamps, the spur
and the delight of their great-grand father,
who is completely their slave; though,
alas ! the second boy is a Wyldeman, and
like his grandfather Sir John, and the
eldest is like himself with marked eyebrows.
But things never will fit in exactly
in this world !

Jenny and Mary pass much of their
time in Kent, giving frequent balls and
parties, to the great enlivenment of the
neighbourhood. Monsieur de orchestra is
often down there, and is always given the
Prophet's Chamber. Being enticed out to
follow " le sport" on a recent occasion, he
nearly shot a gamekeeper ; but, nothing
daunted, he means to try it again should
any one ask him ! He did marry an English
wife, who is half a head taller than himself,
and of whom he is extremely proud. She
is certainly a fine young woman, with a
pleasant countenance. He has a very
pretty home at Hampstead, where he persists
in living, notwithstanding the inconvenient
distance, " to be in the evan above
the smoke " — which is nearly the only thing
in England he really detests. Don Carlos
still jogs sturdily along in his usual way,

sounding his beautiful tones in anything
hut correct time, but his old master grieves
to think what will happen to him when he
is gone. Solomon is the delight of Mary's
children, though he sometimes inform them
that their mother M has gone off with a
gentleman." But parrots have a remarkably
tenacious memory for inconvenient
things !

The brig Charlotte Maria, of "Whitby,
foundered on the Goodwin within twenty
miles of Whitepatch, and all hands were
lost, in the heavy gale which arose on the
night of Mary's adventures in the secret
passages. Mrs. Walker is still a wanderer
from place to place, with an ever-increasing

sense of the burden of life. But Harrison
has offered to assist her in setting up a
lodging-house at Deal, if she will only

listen to reason and be content to govern a
smaller dominion.

The maiden of the east stairs has been
seen once or twice, but the spirit of Richard
Doddingstead has never appeared again,
neither has the terrible ghost of Van
Goyen ; and honest peace and happiness
reign over Whitepatch.

THE END.

l'RIKTED BY WILLIAM CI. OWES AND SON'S, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. -V. £° //.

I

3 0112 047664021
