in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/phantomfuture01merr

VOL. I.

PHANTOM FUTURE

HENRY SETON Merrimac

AUTHOR OF "YOUNG Misled

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in ordinary to %n UTajfstg % Q"«"


[All rights reserved]

U^

f

r

i

^3
1J

THE PHANTOM FUTURE.

Greybeard crept through a village street,
^ His head was bowed, his weary feet

Were bruised and torn.
A staff in his right hand he bare,
The wind played with his silver hair —
His coat was worn.

Onward he passed through golden corn,
"Weary with toil from early morn

He cast him down.
A youth and maiden came along,
Grave she ; but he, with noisy song

Learnt in the town.

^ ' "What seek you in this sunny field ? '

^ Greybeard, to whom he thus appealed,

i/\ Slow raised his head —

1 A Phantom Future I pursue ! '

* * ' * *

Methinks we seek the same as you,'
The maiden said."

CHAPTER I.

Myra BAR.

Tes, Mr. Crozier, I think it is very good.

-L Tell me, will it make a difference in
his life ? "

The girl who spoke closed the book she had
been glancing through, and laid it upon the
marble counter among the sherry-decanters,
black china match-boxes, and ash-trays. She
was only a barmaid, and the brilliant gas shining
down from a sun-light in the ceiling overhead
betrayed the fact that her faultless face was not
quite innocent of artificial aid. Faultless ? — no,
not quite faultless. The lower lip was pressed
upward when in repose, forcing the upper

vol. I. 1 1

slightly out of place. The expression imparted
thus to the daintiest mouth imaginable was not
disagreeable, but it was somewhat sad, if studied
closely, for it seemed to imply that existence
was an effort.

The man to whom her innocent question was
addressed did not answer at once. He took a
long sip of whiskey-ands water, and by 'a turn
of his tongue shifted his cigar from the left to
the right-hand corner of his mouth. He was
a heavy shouldered man, with a large head and
small blue eyes set close together. When he
thought deeply his eyes appeared to contract
and sink deeper beneath the splendid forehead.
This expression came over his face now, although
his gaze was fixed on nothing more interesting
than the linoleum which covered the floor.

I don't know," he said, thoughtfully ; and
being seated on a high stool he swung his right
les backwards and forwards. "It is hard to
say what the result will be. He is such a
harum-scarum sort of fellow that one never
knows what he will do next. Seems to be sick
of medicine, does he not ? "



The girl had risen from her seat behind
the bar, displaying a perfect figure, shown to
full advantage by a tight-fitting black dress.
She moved along to the end of the curving
counter and turned the gas that burnt beneath
a huge silver coffee-urn slightly higher.

They will be coming in, in a few minutes,"
she murmured to herself, glancing upwards at
the clock suspended on the wall opposite. Then
she answered Crozier's question carelessly and
indifferently, after the manner of a person who
has been talking on uninteresting topics all
day.

Yes ; he seems tired of it. I do not think
that he ever was very enthusiastic about it
though ! "

Her voice was somewhat deep and she spoke
very neatly, clipping her words occasionally in a
manner which suggested that she had, at one
time, learnt elocution.

"Sickening profession," grumbled the man.
He emitted a cloud of smoke from his lips
without removing the cigar, and looking up
presently, saw that it floated directly into the



girl's face and around her elaborately dressed
fair hair.

I beg your pardon," he said hastily, and
with his broad hand he waved the smoke aside
gravely.

Oh, never mind," she laughed, " I do not
mind smoke. I have been accustomed to it
for some years now. There are very often ten
of you smoking in this little room in the
evening."

She spoke in a quick, heartless way, with a
conventional smile upon her lips.

flakes no difference," he said gravely. " You
may be accustomed to it, but I have been
accustomed to look upon myself as a gentleman
for the last fifteen years or so. It maybe
a mistake — probably it is — but it is a
little idiosyncrasy which does no one much
harm."

For a moment an odd expression flitted
through the girl's eyes, or to be more strictly
correct, an expression came where none had been
before, for her eyes were singularly cold and
lifeless. She was occupied with the duties



appertaining to her office — polishing decanters,
arranging symmetrically inverted wine-glasses
and tumblers upon the marble counter, and
seeing that a plentiful supply of each brand
of whiskey was ready, for Myra's Bar boasted of
seventeen different distillations in Scotch whiskeys
alone.

She glanced towards the heavy-featured man
who was the sole occupant of the little room
of which she was the presiding divinity and —
almost spoke. Her lips were parted for an
instant, and then they closed again with the
odd upward pressure. If any man or woman in
the world had reason to be thankful for Samuel
Crozier's idiosyncrasy, this girl most assuredly
was that human being.

Of all the frequenters of this small curtained
room at the back of Myra's Bar he was the
only man who took her seriously, who gave
her credit for being something more than a
beautiful machine whose duty it was to smile
at doubtful jokes, ignore double meanings, and
pass from morning till night glasses of a hundred
different intoxicating liquors across a marble



counter into unsteady hands. There were other
gentlemen among these thirsty souls, men with
true and gentle hearts perhaps, with deep-hidden
hopes and aspirations ; but they reserved
the graver sides of their lives for other
moments. They dropped into Myra's on their
way to their engraving-shops, after hospital
hours, or before the stage-doors were open ; and
they came to discuss the newest play, the latest
book, or the best picture. They never drank
very much, but they talked a great deal, and
laughed more. Myra's Bar was no place for
gravity.

Crozier took up the book again, and slowly
turning over the pages, looked at the illustrations
critically. To the letterpress he gave no heed.
Perhaps the poems were familiar to him, or,
more likely still, he did not care for such stuff,
although there was a well-read look about his
face. The drawings were exquisite, soft, delicate,
and full of subtle meaning. The hand that
guided the pencil might almost have held the
pen. It was a well-known collection, but never
had such au edition appeared before, never



had Longfellow's thoughts met with such a
sympathetic exponent.

Crozier rarely talked of himself. That subject
was laid aside by his action of taking up the
book.

Yes, Syra," he said, in a business-like tone,
there is good work here — better work than
sawing bones and making pills."

And drinking gin-and-bitters," added the
girl, with a faint suggestion of severity in her
tone. Her back w 7 as turned towards him, and
a very graceful back it w 7 as. She w r as wiping
the dust from the shelves, which rose in a tier
up to the ceiling, all glittering with full and
brilliantly-labelled bottles. Crozier looked up
with slightly raised eyebrows.

Perhaps," he said, cynically ; and he pushed
his empty glass across towards her, adding at the
same time, " I'll have a little more poison, please."

She turned and gave him some whiskey from
a small glass barrel, measuring the quantity
rapidly and dexterously with a silver vessel
shaped like a tiny tumbler.

He opened his light top-coat in order to take


a cigar from an inner pocket, and in doing so
displayed that he was in dress clothes. The
manner in which he wore them seemed to imply
that he was in the habit of donning such apparel
every night.

Have you been singing to-night ? " asked
the girl carelessly.

Xo ; I have been to the opening of the new
comic opera," he replied, with a cleverly suppressed
yawn ; " Minette, they call it. But I came
away early ; I could not stand it. Very poor
music, very badly sung. Syra, mark my words,
these comic operas, redolent of . of ." he
hesitated, and looked at her quizzically, " of ,
let us say — reeking with Strand
slano-, overwhelmed with vulvar ' business and
disfigured by stupid ' gag ' — are dancing over the
grave of music, deceased, and reproduced in
painted wax-work like Madame Tussaud's defunct
heroes."

Beneath his thick cloak of bitter cynicism the
man really felt what he was saying. Had Syra
been a reader of newspapers, she would have
found a strangely ambiguous criticism in several



of the "dailies " next morning, which one and
all left a very vague impression of the merits
of Minette, and in no way coincided with the
opinion just expressed. But Syra was not
thinking of the opera at all.

"was Mr. Valliant with you?" she asked
indifferently.

No," was the prompt reply. " I have not
seen him since this morning. No doubt he will
be coming in soon."

I wish he would not come in so often."

Syra," said Crozier, reproachfully, " that is
not a business-like remark. I have endeavoured
for some years . . . years, no ! let us say months —
to make you look at things and men in a businesslike
manner. I am disappointed ! "

The girl laughed, but did not look towards him.

One cannot always be business-like," she
replied, in her neat w T ay.

Why not ? Everything goes ; youth, illusions,
pleasure, whiskey, and even music. Only
work stays with us. Therefore let us be businesslike.
Besides, your remark was rude. Mr.
Valliant is my friend."



One would hardly think so."

Indeed," said Crozier, with great serenity.
Am I to understand that you are of opinion
that Samuel Crozier's friendship is a doubtful
acquisition ? "

She laughed again in a terribly mechanical
way, and shrugged her shoulders saucily.

As you like."

"Then please pass me the water. I will
drown this amber liquid and my dull grief at
the same time."

She handed him the carafe, and turned away
again, standing with her two hands — a little
reddened by constant contact with beer and
other liquors — resting upon the marble counter.
It was thus that she stood when the little barroom
was full ; at attention, surrounded by her
innumerable bottles, with all her decanters at
hand, in front of the cash drawer.

He filled up his glass with grave deliberation,
and a hand that was as steady as a rock.

There is something," he said, as he raised
the glass, "in the atmosphere of this secluded
chamber to-night which is new to me. Smoke



I see ; chops, kidneys, and other delicate odours
of the grill I detect, wafted in no doubt from
the neighbouring supper-room, where the portly
Myra dispenses hospitality at a fixed and moderate
charge. But it is none of these. Neither is it
the subtle scent of whiskey. It is impalpable,
indefinite. Syra, is it Virtue ? "

Beneath her lowered lids she glanced sideways
towards him, and her lips curled slightly
in a smile which was almost sickly and quite
unpleasant. She was accustomed to Crozier's
grave jocularity, and rose to the occasion at
once.

"If it is," she said merrily, " be very careful
how you inhale it."

He smiled at the sally, and rose from his seat
to cross the room towards the fireplace where a
few cinders lingered unheeded. It was late in
February, and a fire was hardly necessary in the
small curtained room where the gas burnt all
day. "With a flip of his finger he threw the ash
from his cio-ar cleverly into the cinders. Then

o

he turned and walked slowly towards her.

There is something wrong to-night," he said.


What is it ? Have you bad a young Christian
in here from Exeter Hall, or has some mistaken
person been leaving tracts ? "

There was a subtle difference in his tone, so
slight and. so delicate, that no one who did not
know his manner very well would have suspected
that he was quite serious. The girl, however,
whose human studies must have been very
interesting and strangely contradictory, knew
at once that he expected a grave reply.

Is it right," she asked quickly, " that a
man who can draw like that," and she laid her
hand upon the book, " should spend his time
drinking and smoking in here ? "

Again he looked at her in a gravely quizzical
manner.

"Is it right," he asked solemnly, " that a
man who can sing like Sam Crozier should make
music for the common herd of St. James's Hall ?
Is not his place in another sphere with a golden
harp of his own ? Is it right that Miss Faucit,
the fair and gracious, otherwise known as Syra,
should dispense liquid nourishment to Tom, Dick,
and Harry, receiving in return badly turned



compliments ? Is anything right, Syra — life,
trouble, woe, and joy ? "

Oh ! Don't play the fool ! " exclaimed the
girl impatiently.

"My dear Syra, I am as grave as a judge.
The world would be a dull place if there were
no fools, or no wise men with a turn for playing
the fool."

I wish," said the girl, without looking towards
him, " that you would keep Mr. Valliant
away from here, and from all these loafers whom
he is pleased to call his friends."

I ? " he exclaimed in wonder. " What have
I to do with it ? "

You are the only man who has any influence
with him, the only one among them all
who knows anything of his private life, who is
acquainted with his people'

Crozier raised his glass to his lips, and took a
slow, meditative sip. His face was very grave
when he set it down again, and his deep-set eyes
were overshadowed.

"Why this interest in Valliant?" he asked
pointedly.



She met Lis deep, searching glance with calm
assurance. Then suddenly she laughed in his
face and shook her head merrily.

How funny ! " she exclaimed. " Did you
really think . . . ."

"No' he interrupted, "I thought nothing.
Thinking does not lie in my line of country.
I merely asked a question."

And I will answer it. This interest in Mr.
Yalliant comes from the fact that he is too good
for such a life as he is drifting into. You and
he are different — different from the rest of them.
You may not dress so well, you may not be so
rich, but — but you know what I mean'

u I suppose I do," he replied, swinging his leg
and glancing up at the clock. " But I don't
think you can accuse me of leading him astray.
He came up to town to pass his exam and go
through the hospital. Is it my fault that he
should have fallen into the fastest set ? It was
bound to be the case ; the cleverest men as a rule
are the fastest, and Yalliant is the sort of fellow
to be at the front wherever he may be. He is

not a rear-rank man."



Bat you can hold him back."

Perhaps," said the man, with an odd, conscious
look upon his powerful face. " Perhaps I
do hold him back. Perhaps, Syra. I know him
better than you. Has it never struck you that
he is the sort of man who can never be influenced
by strong measures — a man who is as difficult
to lead or hold back as a woman ? He cannot
bear the curb and spur."

He rose and walked towards the heavy curtains
which, falling together across a broad doorway,
separated the inner from the outer apartment.
There were a few men in the larger room where
Myra held sway ; second-rate actors whose
evening duties were over, and journalistic
loafers. They were all talking in loud tones
of matters dramatic, and there was an attendant
clink of glasses. The odour that came through
the curtains was only that of the little room
intensified and more heavily laden with the
smell of cooking.

Syra stood beside the coffee-urn absently
fingering a pair of sugar-tongs, and when
Crozier returned she did not desist or look up.



"You were rude just now," he said in his
habitual semi-bantering way, "I will return it.
Do you think for a moment, Syra, that I come
here because I have fallen a victim to your
charms ? Does it seem a likely thing that I
should prefer this little room with its smoky,
smelly atmosphere to a comfortable arm-chair
and an evening paper across the road at the
Savage Club?"

The girl threw the sugar-tongs carelessly
on to the marble counter, where they fell
with a loud clang, and glanced up at the
clock.

Then," she said curtly, " you are watching
him."

I am doing what I can."

Why not warn his — his people % "

He laughed and contemplated the end of his
cigar complacently.

I have not trodden the stony paths of
existence for thirty years, young woman, without
learning to mind my own business."

Which means that I will do well to mind

mine, I suppose ? "



Which means exactly what it says. What
I intend to be understood I usually say in a
manner which allows of no misunderstanding.
It is very good of you to think of the matter
at all. Be careful ! Here they come ! "

VOL. I. 17

M

Syria S ADMIRERS.

Ira's" was situated not in the Strand

itself, but in a narrow street running
upward and northward. An old lease, a central
position, and a faithful clientele had combined to
ruin Myra's trim figure arid make her active
life a happy one. Among her regular patrons
were a few journalists, a few actors, and a few
engravers, but her kedge-anchor was Saint
Antony's. The students at that Samaritan establishment
never swerved from their devotion
to the little chop-house. Syras came and Syras
went, but Saint Antony's remained for ever.
Rotund and jovial Myra was part of their education,
and in her motherly way she performed a
vast deal of good among the boys learning in



the cheeriest possible manner the saddest
profession a man can undertake.

Myra could cook a chop in the most dainty
way, and with a broad warm smile she had
grilled many a succulent kidney for pale-faced
students whose appetites had suffered from a
grim morning's work in the accident ward.
More than one anxious mother to whom distant
London was a den of thieves and haunt of sirens,
owed an unsuspected debt to this portly dame.
More than one medical student had been saved
from sfoinff must a little too far by a laughing:
word of caution, delivered with uplifted fork
and face all glowing from proximity to the
spluttering grill.

It may be thought that the inner room with
its goddess was rather a blot upon the fair
reputation of " Myra's," but in excuse there is
much to be said. Profits are large, and Myra
argued comfortably that if her supporters did
not drink there they would drink somewhere
else. She was a remarkably quick reader of
human faces, and the young persons selected to
assume charge of the inner bar and take the



inevitable name of Syra were invariably such as
the stout proprietress ambiguously called "good
girls."

It will perhaps be politic to confess at once
that Saint Antony's was not a steady hospital.
The disciples of the revered Saint were not
young men from whose ranks many promising
Sunday-school teachers could have been selected,
but (like many of us) they were less black than
it was their good or evil fortune to be painted.
Very few of them went irretrievably to the dogs.
Hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder they
danced merrily enough clown the slope, but
before the impetus was allowed to gain mastery
over their legs, some one or other (it was never
quite known who) would give a check and seta
firm foot ; then shoulder pressed closer to
shoulder and hand clasped hand more bravely.

These cheery followers of aesculapius now
trooped through Myra's apartment with many
an evening greeting for the lady herself. The
curtain of the inner room was drawn hastily
aside and a voice called out — " Syra, my own,
accept thy slave's devotion."



The man who spoke entered the room first.
When he perceived Crozier the smile that lighted
up his sharp, merry face wavered for a minute.

"Ah, Sam," he said, "how are you, old
fellow ? "

He was of medium height, of slight and
graceful build, with small, frail hands and feet.
His pallor, which was remarkable, had no disagreeable
association of ill-health with it, for his
complexion was singularly clean and cream-like.
It was the steady, unchangeable whiteness of a
refined Italian, which remains unaltered morning,
noon, and night ; through health and sickness,
through joy and grief. Seen in repose the
features were good; a small straight nose, red
lips, and a dainty chin thrust forward ; but
repose was rare. The lips were always curling
in laughter, the eyes were always dancing with
merriment ; and yet he never laughed aloud
there was no voice in his mirth. He was clean
shaven, and there was no blue shade about his
lip or chin to suggest that a luxuriant growth of
moustache or beard called for a very sharp razor.

In an instant his quick dark eyes lighted


upon the book which lay among the decanters
near to Syra's hand, and he turned to the
comrades who had followed close upon his heels.

Friends, Romans, sawbones," he exclaimed
oratorically, " the cat has escaped. I am at
liberty to tell you that my ship has come home.
Breathe into Syra's shell like ear what your
health requires and refer her to me. To-night
I bury the scalpel and start growing an artistic
head of hair ! "

They were accustomed to surprises of this
description, these decorous revellers. Among
them were men who had already written books
and painted pictures ; others there were with
manuscripts and canvases secretly treasured.
Tom Valliant had made a hit. All the better
for Tom Valliant ! Drink to his success at Its
expense, without thought of envy.

While the noisy group clustered round Syra
and peered over each other's shoulders at the
book, calling out their requirements as they
did so, Valliant drifted nearer to Crozier, who
was still sitting on a high stool beside the
marble counter swinging one leg idly.



Well, Sam," lie said almost gravely, beneath
the cover of many voices ; " well, old fellow,
what do you think of it ? "

Already he was looking the other way,
laughing in his soft, noiseless way at some
sally, and his eyes were still dancing with
merriment when he turned again for Crozier's
reply.

It is good," said the singer kindly, " very
good ; and the drawings have not been spoilt
by the engraving. There is a long life in the
future for that book'

Yalliant seemed scarcely to have heard. He
was waving his hand above his head to attract
Syra's attention. She was very busy, and her
pink fingers flitted from one decanter to another
with marvellous and noiseless celerity. At
length she looked up, and Yalliant called out,
Oh, faithless one, think of me ! "

She knew only too well w T hat he wanted, and
the little silver measure came into use. Her
movements were so quick that there seemed
hardly time for her to have measured at all.

When the glass was handed to Yalliant he


raised it and looked at the quantity critically,
with, however, the ready smile in his eyes.
Then he turned with mock indignation to the
man nearest to him, a tall and solemn medical
student.

I really believe," he exclaimed, " that Syra
gives me short measure on purpose."

He took another glass that happened to be
within reach and held the two side by side above
his head.

Look here, you fellows," he cried ; " compare
these two, and tell me when and how and
where I have done aught to deserve such
treatment from Syra ! "

The men laughed aloud and groaned in unison,
deprecatingly. Crozier alone was grave, but
his gravity was never forbidding, never cold ;
there was a sympathetic warmth about it which
was almost as good as a smile. He glanced
towards the girl, and from his position at the
end of the counter he could see her where she
had laughingly taken refuge behind the coffee-urn.
His deep-set eyes met a distinct and
unmistakable glance of appeal, which was more



remarkable from the usual illness of the girl's
expression. Moreover she was scarlet. Syra
was blushing a deep, painful blush beneath her
powder, such as had not swept upwards to those
dainty cheeks for many a year.

Then Crozier suddenly joined in the general
laughter, and raised his mellow voice with a
quiet consciousness of power, a well-founded
knowledge of the fact that he would be heard
and heeded.

It is," he said, " because you fellows hurry
her so. One would think that you had not seen
a tumbler or a wine-glass for months. If you
want full measure you should come in quietly
as I do before the theatres are out. I really
think, Syra, you ought to fill that up."

The girl took the glass and obeyed him
without, however, glancing in his direction.

"Mr. Crozier," she said lightly to Valliant,
was accusing me just now of being unbusinesslike.
As soon as I display the true spirit of
commerce, you pounce upon me."

Never mind what he says, Syra," replied
Valliant, raising the glass to his lips.



He took a long draught and set it down half
empty. Near to it was the glass of the solemn
medical student, who happened to be looking
the other way. It contained much more, and
with great gravity Valliant changed the glasses,
keeping the fuller one for himself.

Never mind, Syra," he continued, " I bear
no malice. I love my Syra with an S because
she swindles. As a proof of my forgiveness
accept these lilies which have adorned this
manly breast all the evening."

With a careless laugh he turned away, while
the girl placed the flowers in her belt. He
began discussing a new play with one of the
actors in it. It happened to be the man who
played the lover's part, rendering it with exquisite
pathos, and yet the two laughed and
joked. No one was allowed to be grave, to
treat anything seriously, when Tom Valliant
was near.

Crozier was still seated at the end of the bar,
still swinging his strong leg idly. His arm
was resting on the counter and his finger and
thumb restlessly polished his glass up and down.



He was watching Syra meditatively, his lips
slightly parted, his eyes contracted in his usual
indifferently speculative manner.

"Poor Syra!" he was thinking; "I wonder
how long she has been playing that trick upon
him."

Presently some new arrivals made their
appearance, and the little room became uncomfortably
crowded. Among them were a few
actors of clean washed appearance and reprinted
eyes, but perhaps the most conspicuous
was a tall, pale-faced youth immaculately dressed,
clean-shaven, and aristocratic. He was a medical
student, the son of a well-known west country
physician. A new disciple of St. Antony's, and
the best-dressed man in the room. Perhaps he
was too well dressed. His clothes had not the
appearance of sitting easily, and there was an
awkward, self-conscious suggestion of discomfort
in his gestures. Walter Varden was a gentleman,
but he had the misfortune to be a fool.
Now, among ladies a fool often gets on very
well if he has the good sense to stop short of
familiarity in his friendships ; but men soon



discover the depth or shallowness of each other's
intellects. St. Antony's voted "Walter Varden
a fool, and they were quite right ; but he was
accorded an un^rudsjinsj welcome at Mvras, and
his foolishness was good-naturedly ignored. He
was not in reality a bad fellow, and it was
convenient for the lesser wits to have a butt
always at hand upon which to practise. Also
he had plenty of money, and was an easy victim
for borrowers.

His manner of addressing Syra and the heavy
style in which he attempted to establish a flirtation
grated upon the nerves of some of the older
men. He now came in, and with a vacuous nod
for any one whose policy it might be to wish
him good evening, leant awkwardly across the
counter close to Crozier.

Syra," he said, mysteriously, with a beckoning
finger upraised.

In a few moments she came towards him
without hurrying. The men who happened to
be near turned to hear what he might have to
communicate. There was a tacit understanding



among the admirers of Syra that no monopoly



was to be allowed, and this new-comer seemed
inclined to ignore the wholesome rule.

Syra," said Yarden, in a patronizingly
lowered voice, " I have two tickets for a ball at
the Westminster town-hall tomorrow night ;
I'll take you. There will not be a soul I know
there, and we will have a lark."

She laughed in her easy mechanical way, and
turned aside to attend to some one else.

No, thanks," she said.

Why not ? " he asked, in a louder tone, quite
content to impress his listeners with the fact
that he was a " devil of a fellow."

She shook her head smilingly, but made no
answer.

Xo, I say. Tell me why," argued the lady-killer
in his most " devilish " style.

rt / will tell you why," said Crozier, suddenly,
and his quiet voice caused a momentary silence.
Saint Antony's knew that Yarden was going to
be taken down a peg. " I will tell you
why!"

Oui ! " said the young swell, doubtfully.

Crozier looked up at him with perfect gravity,



without removing the cigar from the comer of
his mouth.

Yes. She will not go because I won't let
her. Syra never goes to balls except with me
and her aunt, who is kind enough to chaperon
us."

There were a few moments of strained silence,
and then an actor gravely broke the spell, leaving
Varlet quite puzzled as to whether he had been
snubbed or made to appear a fool,

That is Crozier ! " said the actor in the background.
He was a small man and could not see
over his companions' heads. " That is Crozier,
I am sure. A song, a song — come along, old
fellow ! "

Yes, a sons: ! Give us a song ! " called out
various voices.

Then the actor who had first spoken raised
his voice again.

o

Crozier has a new song," he cried. " Encored
seven times at St. James's Hall last night.
We'll have that or nothing. If he does not
sing that we will chuck him out of Syra's
presence ! "



The heavy-featured man smiled slowly until
his eyes were hardly visible, and then — sitting
on a high stool with one muscular arm resting
on the marble counter — he raised a voice that
never had been given him to ruin in a smoky
tap-room. But it was not ruined yet, full, deep,
and mellow, strong when needed, soft and
pathetic by nature, he used it with confidence
and great skill, for he had studied in Naples and
Rome.

The song he sang was hardly appropriate for
the occasion, but with professional wisdom he
left that matter to his audience. They had
asked for the new ballad, and he gave it. Perhaps
there was beneath this strong fellow's cloak of
genial cynicism a little pride, a small wish to
make the best of his great gift though it was
only in a little bar-parlour in a quiet street
where the passers-by would take him for some
drunken reveller. Impression and managers said
that Crozier took almost a delight in refusing-good
offers. His voice was in great demand ; it
was at its full strength, and equal to any amount
of work. Probably there were men in that very



room who had gladly accepted engagements
laughingly and heedlessly refused by him. There
were critics present also, men who wrote and
composed and lived in a work-a-day atmosphere
of music. Without accompaniment, in a choking
atmosphere, the good-natured singer sang to
them ; good-natured, not because he was too
weak to refuse, as most good-natured people are,
but because he could well afford to give. No
man raised glass to lip, no match was struck,
and all smoked noiselessly, while Syra stood
quite still with her hands upon the counter
in front of the cash-drawer listening to the
words —

Greybeard crept through a village street,
His head was bowed, his weary feet

"Were bruised and torn.
A staff in his right hand he bare,
The wind played with his silver hair —
His coat was worn.

Onward he passed through golden corn,
Weary with toil from early morn

He cast him down.
A youth and maiden came along,
Grave she ; but he, with noisy song

Learnt in the town.



"What seek you in this sunny field ? '
Greybeard, to whom he thus appealed,
Slow raised his head —
1 A Phantom Future I pursue ! '
*****
1 Methinks we seek the same as you,'
The maiden said."

"When the applause had died away, the occupants
of the little room were disturbed by the
advent of Myra, who drew aside the heavy
curtains and stood smiling in the doorway.

"I am sorry, gentlemen," she said, with good-humoured
severity, " but time is up."

As they all trooped out a few minutes later,
Crozier slipped his hand through Valliant's arm
with an undeniable though gentle touch.

Come to my rooms," he said, " and have a
smoke. I want to talk to you about that book."

a#^

vol. I. 33 3

THE FUTURE.

CROZIER'S rooms were in the Temple. His
quiet, unobtrusive windows looked into
other quiet unobtrusive windows. In the centre
of the small quadrangle a single lime-tree existed.
It never grew in bulk or stature, neither did it
die. Every spring it unclasped its gummy buds
and threw a delicate green reflection upon the
dusty windows. Early in the autumn it shed
its leaves and closed negotiations for the winter
Lime Court would have been a sorry abode
without its leafy god father. The men who
lived there would have sorely missed their connecting
link, their mutual pride, and topic of
conversation. It was by the merest incident
that their affection for the tree was one day



discovered. It happened that a legal cat of
weighty person mounted its branches one spring
morning for the purpose of taking a siesta in
the warmth of the sun. About breakfast-time
the outrage was discovered, and from every
window came protestation in sacrificial form.
One man devoted half a muffin to the cause of
protection, another had the satisfaction of dealing
a heavy blow upon the cat's left ear with a
dainty slipper worked for him by fair and affectionate
fingers. Crozier himself did terrible
execution with a volley of loaf-sugar followed
closely by the bread-knife.

The rooms were melancholy and exceedingly
comfortable, with thick red curtains, a number
of low arm-chairs, and a subtle homely odour
of tobacco smoke in the atmosphere.

Yalliant entered the sitting-room first and
turned up the gas with the air of a man who
is quite at home and amidst familiar surroundings.
A few letters lay upon the table, and
nodding his head towards them he turned and
walked towards the fire.

"Billets-doux!" he said, lightly; " you had


better read them while my back is turned, so
that I may be spared the sight of a blush upon
that leathery cheek ! "

He turned his back towards the room and
stood with one foot upon the fender gazing into
the fire, while he sought slowly in his pockets
for pipe and pouch. The fire, dancing and
flickering, showed his face to be quite grave,
almost melancholy.

"More likely to be bills," muttered Crozier,
as he stood with his hands thrust into his
pockets, gazing speculatively and lazily at the
envelopes.

"Then do not open them, that these ears
may be spared the shock of an expletive."

Crozier sat down slowly and comfortably ina
deep soft arm-chair. He left the letters lying
on the table, and raised his close-set and earnest
eyes towards his companion.

"Well," he inquired, "what is the next
move {

Valliant turned and looked down at him with
a bright smile.

"The next move is to fill my pipe," he


answered, " and then suggest that you should
lend me a match. "

This brought forth no smile. A solemn humour
had come over the singer. He was determined
to make Valliant talk sensibly of his affairs.

Are you going to give up medicine ? " he
asked pleasantly.

The younger man lighted his pipe.

There is some vast idea surging about in
your brain, Sam. Let us have it. You will
feel all the better for it, my boy ! "

He sat down in a deep chair, and stretched
his slight graceful legs out with a jerk. Crozier
took the pipe from his lips and spoke slowly,
with a grave masterfulness that betrayed his
wish to act well by his young friend.

That book," he said, " will be all over the
country in a few weeks. You must follow it up.
A man with a talent like that has no right to
neglect it. His duty towards himself and the
public is to make the most of it, cultivate it, and
improve it. . . . What are you grinning at ? "

Stone-throwing is a risky pastime," explained
Valliant, with a light laugh.



"It does not matter when all the panes are
broken," replied the singer.

For an instant Valliant looked grave. He
changed his position slightly, and pressed the
burning tobacco into his pipe with the end of a
cedar-w T good pencil.

Are they broken, Sam ? " he asked seriously.

I don't know," replied Crozier, with a smile.
It feels a little draughty at times. But that
is not the point. It seems to me that the time
has come for you to look seriously to the future.
One hundred and twenty pounds a-year is nota
bad income for a medical student, but it is not
much for a man of twenty-five. If you are
going to stick to the bone-sawing business it is
time you began to work, and make a name at
the hospital. If not, you ought to throw aside
the whole affair at once, and take to art as a
profession ! "

A profession," . . . echoed Valliant. " A
profession is a thing that a man spends the best
years of his life in learning, and by the time he
is sick of the whole business he begins to make
a small income by it."



You are speaking of men who are driven
into a profession when they are too young to
know w T hat they are about."

Seems to me I am being driven at the
present moment."

Not by me," said Crozier, gravely, " but by
the force of circumstances."

Valliant moved uneasily, and smoked in silence
and hastily for some moments. Once or twice
his quick gay eyes rested on his companion's
face. This man of thirty had quietly assumed
a place in his existence during the last four
years. Before that he had not known him, and
the remembrance of his first impression was still
a tangible thought. To the youthful man of
twenty-one this grave singer had at first appeared
to be much more than five years his senior. But
Crozier had never lost sight of him, never made
one backward step in the steady progress of
friendship. The disparity in years never disappeared,
but it came to be a tacitly recognized
thing, and one that conveyed no sense of discomfort
or estrangement with it. It was part
of their friendship. Crozier neglected, perhaps



purposely, great aid to mutual sympathy.

He rarely . ke of himself, and never compared
Valiant aces, of which he heard sooner or

later, with similar experiences passed through by
himself in earlier years. And yet Valliant never
doubted th t his grave friend had many strange
S a in life of which he could have told.
There was about his strong immobile face a quieta

I ion of experience. The man had evidently
passed through the mill, and the result was by
no means a failure. He was a little hardened,
a little sceptical ; perhaps a trifle aimless, but the
true metal was close-knit and bright beneath the
outward coat of indifferent

At length Valliant . with a faint under-note

of humour in the sound of his momentarily
£rrav

"That old gentleman," he said, "of whom
you sang this evening — with the worn coat
and the silver hair — was probably a professional
man."

Crozier made no reply for some minutes, and
the only sound that broke the silence of Lime
rt was the distant note of a cat stridently


lamenting its lot. Presently a second feline voice
joined in harmoniously.

Ci The waits ! " suggested Valliant in a whisper,
with an irrepressible twinkle in his eye.

His companion smiled, and roused himself
suddenly from his reverie.

If you won't take to art as a profession'* he
said briskly, "take to it as an amusement. You
will do better amusing yourself with art than
busying yourself with medicine."

I hate making plans. Life is but a fleeting-shadow,
Samuel."

So do I, for myself. There is a sort of
melancholy satisfaction, however, about making
them for other people, because one is perfectly
sure that they never will be carried out. If you
are not going to make plans, what do you propose
doing ? Allow other folks to make them for
you, or drift ? "

"Drift."

Again Crozier thought deeply, while the smoke
rose slowly in reflective clouds from his lips to
the dusky ceiling.

I have done a good deal of that in my time,"


he murmured. "It is not satisfactory work.
My idea is, that you ought to go down to Gold-heath
tomorrow with the book under your arm.
Show it to your uncle, Mrs. Valliant, and — and
your cousin, and hear what they have to say on
the subject."

Where is that copy you had this evening ? "
asked Valliant, with a peculiar ring in his voice,
while he glanced round the room.

I gave it to Syra, She asked for it."

Again a silence, broken only by the distant
cats, fell upon the room.

The waits again ! " suggested Valliant.

This time Crozier laughed suddenly, and
with unnecessary loudness. The smoke no
longer rose from his lips for the pipe had gone
out.

I might send them the book," continued
the younger man.

Why not go down ? "

Valliant's quick glance rested for an instant
on his friend's face.

Goldheath is a lovely place," he said with a
smile, " but the wind blows across that moor like



a knife. Besides, it is a trifle dull at tins time of
year."

The singer relighted his pipe and leant far
back in his chair, thus concealing his face. His
legs were crossed, and one foot swung in a
thoughtless and indifferent way.

It would be of no use sending the book
unless you went yourself. There must be a lotto
tell about it, and of course they will want to
hear everything," he said in a steady, businesslike
tone.

It almost seemed as if the mere mention of
Goldheath had caused a change to come over the
humour of both men. There was in the manner
of their conversation a subtle and almost
intangible sense of embarrassment.

"Oh, there is not much to tell," said Valliant,
speaking rapidly. " In fact . . . Elma . . . has seen
a good many of the sketches before I had any
idea of selling them, you know. I did most of
them at Goldheath, and finished them here. The
house appears several times and . . . and Elma."

"Yes, I know."

Crozier s voice was drowsy. One would almost


have said that he was half-asleep, but his foot
swung still.

You recognized it ? "

Yes, I recognized them."

"Them?"

The house and . . . your cousin' explained
Crozier."

Then they smoked pensively until the singer
left his chair and went to the fireplace, where he
pressed the burning embers clown with his neatly
shod foot.

I think they would feel it rather strange if
you simply sent the book by post. It is a longtime
since you were there."

Valliant was wavering. Beneath his airy
manner there was a strong will, but he knew
that Crozier would ultimately achieve his
purpose. He invariably did so when he took
the trouble to be determined — to exert his strong
fixity of purpose.

If I go," he said, " you must come too, and
sing them that song before I produce the book."

Which song ? "

That one about the old gentleman."



"Why should I sing that?" asked Crozier,
displaying very slight interest.

Yalliant rose suddenly and sou oh t his hat
and stick. He stood in front of his friend,
ready to go, with his pipe slightly elevated and
his small chin thrust forward. He leant upon
his stick and looked down at Crozier with a gay
smile.

Because they will be wanting me to waste
the living present in the pursuit of the wildest
o-oose a man can chase. "

The singer rose and took his companion's
outstretched hand.

What is that?" he asked, without meeting
his friend's eyes.

A phantom future," laughed Yalliant.

Crozier followed him to the door. He went
out into the little entrance-hall where their
footsteps echoed weirdly. He held open the
street-door and Yalliant passed down the worn
steps into the darkness of Lime Court.

Tom ! " cried Crozier suddenly.

"Yes." The reply came back softly and the
singer knew that his friend was grave for once.



"When he spoke, however, there was in his
tone the old sound of grave badinage.

u Were you ever a cricketer ? "

I used to bowl wide at one time."

When I was a kid," continued Crozier, " I
used to keep wicket. I thought I did it very
well. At first I was in the habit of not raising
my hand until the batsman missed the ball ; the
consequence was that I got a good many in the
eye and quite a number in the chest. Then
I learnt to make a grab at every ball as if the
batsman were not there at all. Seems to me
that a little wicket-keeping is good training.
It is best to grab at everything and pretend
to ignore the possible obstacles."

Valliant stood with his hands thrust deeply
into the pockets of his light coat, his stick
under his arm and his hat slightly tilted backwards.
He looked quizzically up at his friend
who stood in the doorway.

"Is that all?" he asked.

That is all."

Thanks. I will make a note of it on my
cuff."



He performed a pas-seal upon the pavement
and presently walked off.

Good-night, Samuel," he called out over his
shoulder.

Good-night," said the mellow voice from the
doorstep.



GOLDHEATH.

There Sussex merges into Surrey there lies
" a vast sweeping moorland, where heather
and gorse and whin hold united sway. All the
chemical fertilizers yet invented, were they combined
and shaken up in one malodorous sack,
could not spoil this golden land. The august
body which calls itself the Royal Agricultural
Society could make nothing out of it. A steeplechase,
a coursing meeting, or a ramble, but never
a turnip, has been associated with Goldheath.

Over the low broken hill, two miles away,
there is indeed a railway-station on the main
line between Portsmouth and London ; but the
quick trains never stop there, and the local
traffic is limited. Once a week the stationmaster



is kept out of Led until eleven o'clock at
night to await the arrival of a goods train which
drops one or two trucks carrying chemical
manure, and biscuits, cheese, ploughshares, and
haberdashery.

Goldheath has the good fortune to lie well
away from the coach-road. The lanes are narrow
and ill-kept, consequently the ubiquitous bicyclist
is rarely met. The little village lying on the
westward slope of a long sweeping hill gazes
meditatively down upon the broad moor, of
which the farthest limit is lost upon the blue
slope of a distant range.

To the south the moorland is bordered by a
pine forest, beyond which are meadows, and in
the distance arable land. At the edge of this
forest lies Goldheath Court, a long low house
composed of a series of gables. It is built of
red brick, which age has softened and beautified
as it softens and beautifies all things of which

o

the angles are too sharp and cutting ; including
men and women. The northern facade looks
across a large though scantily furnished orchard,
towards the moor, which is divided (as well as
vol. I. 49 4

the orchard) by a narrow gravelled road drawn
in a deadly straight line from the last house in
the village to the front-door of Goldheath Court.
This same broad door is the only outlet from the
northern side, while to the east and south every
ground-floor window is, so to speak, a door.

All round the house there is a narrow pavement
of green and moss-grown stone extending
for some three feet outwards. Before the library
window to the east, and the two drawing-room
windows to the south, this stone pavement is
worn white by friction, and there are small
rounded indentations (where the rain collects)
showing that the inhabitants of Goldheath Court
are in the habit of passing freely in and out of
the windows.

The eastward end of the house looks into what
is, or was a few years ago, called the Availed
Garden. From the north-eastern angle to the
south-eastern a high brick wall extended in a
circle, broken only by a trellised door upon the
north, and another upon the south, of which the
inner posts were fixed against the house itself.
To pass through one of those trellised doors is to



step back one hundred and fifty years into the
past. Within that circle a quaint old-day peacefulness
and melancholy reign supreme. Against
the dull red wall are climbing; now, (marled and
crooked pear-trees, of which the branches have
been pressed by feet once lithe and tiny, now
mouldering beneath the sand of Goldheath
churchyard. Here grow T quaint old-fashioned
flowers, simple briar-roses and sturdy tufts of
lavender. But the pride of the Walled Garden
is the huge cedar in the centre, near the fountain,
which played spasmodically thirty years ago
when old Valliant brought home his little wife.
Around the cedar grows a strange and wondrous
assortment of conifers and leafy evergreens.
Weymouth pines and spruce overshadow arbutus
and laurel, while a tall straight larch drops its
brown needles down upon the repelling arms of
a monkey-puzzle, disfiguring it sorely. Even in
February — Nature's dullest season — the library
window looks upon a pleasant verdure.

Within the northern curve of the wall is
ensconced the old violet-bed, now carefully protected
by straw, and here, crouching carelessly


U OF ILL LIB

upon the gravel-walk, a little maiden sat one
sunny morning. With her chilled pink fingers
she was routing about among the straw for the
short-stalked, deep-coloured little flowers ; for
the white violets were not budding yet.

Presently she rose and shook her skirts free of
dead leaf and dust, and also a little dry and
powdery snow which had collected beneath the
box border. She was of medium height, with
slight square shoulders as straight as an arrow.
A dainty girlish form that might have been the
growth of seventeen or eighteen years, clad in
woolly blue serge, with a black leather belt
around the tiniest waist. Elma Valliant was
almost twenty one, but her youthful figure and
sweet eyes were those of a school-girl. Behind
such eyes as hers, woman's brain can think
wondrous thoughts and never betray them.
Daring and demure, innocent and wicked by
turns, they changed colour strangely by artificial
light. By day they were light in colour of a
blue hovering into grey. With perhaps a little
hope of contradiction she herself playfully called
them green, but such was not their hue. At



night the pupil dilated greatly, and her eyes
were deep, dark, and melting. Very eloquent
they might be some day, but now they only
spoke of lighter things ; passing sorrow and
ready laughter. Her hair had been flaxen atone
time, but it was slowly darkening, while
sudden gleams of gold lurked in the stray curls
near her ears, or low down her white neck. She
was generally in a hurry, this little maiden, and
her hair suffered most becomingly from this
characteristic. In a most wonderful manner she
arranged it in less than three minutes, and for
the rest of the day or evening it was a greater
wonder still that the erection survived three
seconds.

While she was walking slowly round the
circular path towards the library window which
stood open, she arranged deftly in a small bunch
the violets she had just picked. In passing the
trellised door she glanced through the open
woodwork and saw the old postman slowly
making his way up the straight avenue of
Weymouth pines, which stood gauntly among
the leafless fruit-trees of the orchard.



Then she opened the garden-door and ran
clown the avenue to meet the ancient letter-carrier,
whose rheumatism suddenly acquired
acute severity at the sight of her. Every step
of her light foot saved him two.

Good-morning, Anson," she panted, with
soft cheeks rosily glowing.

Good-morning, Miss Elm v. Here's a bright
morning to be sure. A lot o' letters this
morning I do think, and one from Master
Tom."

The rosy tint upon her cheeks lost nothing ;
perhaps it deepened slightly.

A letter from Tom. Oh, I am so glad," she
exclaimed.

"To be sure," replied the postman, as with
quavering hands clad in ancient leathern gloves,
he assorted his homoeopathic stock of correspondence.


Thank you," she said, taking the letters and
her father's newspaper with its printed wrapper.
Yes, Anson, you are right ; this is from Master
Tom ! "

The old man lingered, gazing at her sweet


flushed face beneath his shaggy eyebrows, very
kindly.

11 1 suppose he'll be coming down to see us,
Miss. He's not been near us for many months

now."

No doubt ! " she replied. " He seldom writes
unless he is coming. He is very bad at Writings.
you know, and gives you very little work,
Anson."

"I wish, Miss Elmy," said the old man
gravely, " he'd give me a bit more ; I do,
indeed."

He was not looking at her now, but was busy
with his large canvas letter-bag. "Without
looking up he continued,

I wonder now if Mr. Crozier's coming; with
him this time."

I do not know, I am sure, Anson," replied
the girl, reading the printed address upon the
newspaper wrapper.

The old man turned a little and looked across
the moorland, now bleak and brown with patches
of dry powdery snow here and there, towards

the village.



The old church doesn't seem the same," he
said reflectively, "without a Crozier to preach
the word to us o' Sundays. Master Sam ought'er
been there, Miss, to be sure he ought."

The girl laughed merrily. A moment before
she had been on the point of turning to
go. Now she stood and looked across the
moor.

"I do not think Mr. Crozier would have made
a good parson, Anson," she said lightly.

Perhaps not, perhaps not, Miss Elmy.
Though to be sure, none can tell what's inside a
man till the husk has been scraped a bit. But
he's a main good fellow, a main good fellow, Miss
Elmy."

Yes, Anson," she said indifferently as she
turned to go. " Good morning."

"Good morning, Miss Elmy," replied the old
man.

The girl walked slowly up the narrow avenue
towards the peaceful old house. There were
two or three other letters, but that from Tom
Valliant received her undivided attention.

I wonder," she murmured, "if he is coming


on Saturday ! This is Wednesday — three whole
days before then ! "

She suddenly drew up the soft woollen shawl
which had fallen a little from her shoulders, and
began running; towards the trellised gate into
the walled garden. In the library she found
her father, who was carefully airing the local
morning paper before the fire.

There is a letter from Tom," she cried out
gleefully, as she fastened the window.

Ah, I am glad of it."

With these words the heavily-built man
turned towards his daughter with a smile of
sincere pleasure upon his broad and honest
English face. He pressed his right hand into
the small of his back — if the word " small " be
allowed to pass — and grunted ; then he crossed
the room slowly and kissed his daughter ;
straightening himself afterwards with another
grunt. Elma was apparently accustomed to these
sounds of anguish, for the smile never left her
face. Squire Valliant had the habit of grunting
until eleven o'clock in the morning ; after that he
forgot his lumbago, which was laid aside until



bed-time. At ten o'clock at niffht he invariably
recollected to place bis band once more in the
centre of bis back and groan, the precise
moment of this occurrence being usually when
he began to mount the broad stairs, candle
in hand.

He now sought vigorously in the region of
his throat for the string of an eye-glass which
had as usual been tucked into his waistcoat with
the end of his black tie. Having fixed the glass
in his eye, he took the letters from his daughter's
hand .

Yes," he said, holding one up to the light ;
that is from Tom, undoubtedly ; that is from
Tom. Your scapegrace of a cousin has remembered
his relations at last. Eh, little woman,
eh 1 ha, ha ! "

He chuckled and presently threw the letter
down upon the breakfast-table.

But," he said simply, " it is addressed to
your mother, so we must leave it till she comes
down."

Elma was engaged in spreading out the
London newspaper. It was one of her daily



duties to smooth it out and cut the pages for
her father's convenience in reading. If Squire
Valliant was deprived of his morning's paper
he remembered his lumbago, and grunted all
day.

I wonder," said the girl absently, " if they
are coming at the end of the week."

Who ? " inquired her father carelessly, while
he lifted the cover off the dish set before him.

Tom, I mean," she replied rather hurriedly ;
I wonder if he is coming at the end of the
week."

The squire made no reply just then. He was
a slow thinker, this honest country gentleman.
Born and bred amidst these low open hills he
had acquired a certain love of openness, and
never sought for motives in the thoughts or
words of others, as townsmen love to do. Elma's
little slip had been a slip and nothing else, and
so he thought no more about it, but turned his
attention to the domestic arrangements for the
end of the week.

Is there anything arranged for Saturday —
any one coming, I mean ? " he asked.



The girl seated herself beside the fire, crouching
low upon the fender, and holding her hands
to the warmth.

I believe," she replied, " that mother asked
Willy Holds worth to lunch if it proves too hard
for hunting. He expects a friend, a Mr. Varden,
and does not know how to amuse him.

Hunting ! " muttered the squire, and then
he laughed, and was pulled up suddenly by a
violent fit of coughing, of which, however, he
made the most, holding his back and making
a great to-do with his lips. " Hunting ! " he
gasped ; " Holdsworth's hunting is a regular
farce. He rides like a sailor."

The girl looked quickly across the table. Her
round, innocent eyes rested for a moment upon
her father's genial face. The old gentleman
sought vigorously for a pocket-handkerchief in
the tail of his grey tweed coat and wiped his
moustache noisily with a flourish.

He does many things like a sailor," said
Elma carelessly.

No harm in that ; I've known some goodmen
in my time who were sailors."



She looked into the fire for some moments
before answering. There was a gentle wonder
in her eyes, and she rubbed one hand slowly
over the back of the other which lay upon
her lap.

Yes," she acquiesced, " but . . . '

But what, little woman ? "

I wonder where he learnt to do thing's like a
sailor."

The squire smiled a little grimly, and pushing
his chair back from the table crossed his legs.
Then he glanced at his huge, old-fashioned
watch. Mrs. Valliant was already five minutes
late for breakfast, and everything was getting
cold, for the air was sharp ; but there seemed
to be no question of beginning the meal
without her.

"Better not inquire," he said, "better not
inquire, I think. When a man disappears for
eight years and comes back with his hair very
neat, and a devil-may-care self-possession about
him, it is best not to ask where he has been.
He is very steady now, and he is very good to
the old people. The past must be allowed to go



lUKjiiestioned, but . . . but lie cant ride. Can't
ride a bit ! "

There was in the old man's tone a suspicion
of forced charity, as if he were trying to make
the best of a poor bargain, which his daughter
did not fail to detect. She was a little country
maiden, not greatly experienced, not too wise
perhaps ; and the mysterious portion of her old
playmate's life interested her. It is a lamentable
fact that a man, if he is known to have
been or to be a rake, arouses an interest in the
hearts of most women by reason of his reputation,
and it was something of this spirit that
caused Elma Yalliant's thoughts to turn repeatedly
towards William Holdsworth.

At this moment, however, the girl heard her
mother's step in the long corridor, and rose
from her crouching position without undue
haste, but in time to be standing up before
Mrs. Valliant entered the room.

Mrs. Valliant was rather a colourless little
woman ; a worthy representative of a generation
which was in reality more heartless and colder
than the present, although it is not the fashion



to believe so. She lead married late in life,
after having ruled for some years a spinster
household of her own, and thus had contracted
views and habits of thought which clung to
her still. Nevertheless she was in her way a
good woman. Thoroughly conscientious, truly
dutiful and strictly just, but heartless. Heartless
in her love, heartless in her hatred. Smiling
rarely, weeping never. How she came to bethe
mother of an impulsive and joyous little
maiden like Elma it would be hard to say.
The girl had certainly not inherited from the
maternal side her quick loving heart, of which
the emotions glowed so transparently upon her
smooth and dainty cheek. Her large bright
eyes bore no resemblance to the lifeless hazel
orbs of Mrs. Valliant. They were her father's
eyes, with the quick eager glance of the true
sportsman softened into womanly tenderness and
coquetry.

The household arrangements w T ere conducted
with a rigid regard for precedent and custom
which was characteristic of the mistress. The
heartless little woman was in fact an excellent



housekeeper, loving punctuality at all times
except breakfast, for she was a bad riser, exercising
a ruthless economy, and taking care to
provide such dishes as pleased her husband's
taste with a punctilious disregard for her own
opinion upon the matter.

Elma was the scapegrace of the family. She
was invariably down in time for breakfast ; but
there was no merit in that, for her mother
was usually late, and at other meals she was
often in default. It will be remembered that
she rose somewhat hurriedly from her graceful
but "unfinished" posture on the fender before
her mother entered the room.

Mrs. Valliant attended to her duties in connection
with breakfast before looking at her
letters. Then she opened Tom's envelope first
and proceeded to read the contents with a vague
smile. Tom Valliant was, perhaps, the only
human being in her circle of friends and relations
who was not wholesomely afraid of the
mistress of Goldheath.

Presently she laid the letter down beside her
plate and said —



Tom asks if he may come on Saturday — he
and Samuel Crozier."

The Squire nodded his head.

Ah ! " he said, in a tone which committed
him neither to approval nor otherwise until his
wife's opinion had been received.

"William Holdsworth and his friend Mr.
Varden are coming to lunch," said Mrs. Valliant.
It will be rather heavy for the servants, but
we must manage as best we can."

Very few arrangements were completed without
some reference to the servants by Mrs.
Valliant. She regulated her life with a view of
suiting their convenience, whilst their opinion
was invariably quoted and considered. She
was, nevertheless, a strict mistress, and rarely
kept her domestics for any length of time.

vol. i. 65

CHAPTER V.

OLD SHIPMATES.

On the Saturday morning, before the dissipated
denizens of Lime Court were astir, the
silence of that sacred nook was broken by a
sharp, light footstep. Tom Valliant, although
a high-spirited man among his companions, was
by no means given to a display of hilarity when
alone. He never whistled merry airs for his
own edification, and never sang gently as Crozier
was in the habit of doing dien in his bedroom.

However, on this bright February morning
the medical student felt unusually gay. A
slight frost had cleared the air and exhilarated
tired nature. Nature in this case was represented,
however, by nothing more important
than the lime tree, which was hard and dry and
shrivelled.



On being admitted by a dusty servant with
a forlorn cap, he ran lightly up-stairs. The fire
was burning in Crozier's sitting-room, but there
were no signs of breakfast yet. Valliant passed
unhesitatingly through into the bed-room which
communicated by a curtained door. Here he
found Crozier on his knees before an open
Gladstone bag, humming an operatic air to
himself.

Packing ! " he exclaimed, cheerfully. " Allow
me to assist you."

With this purpose in view he took a seat
upon the bed, and with a quick swing of his
right arm sent a pillow flying into the open
bag, scattering what was already there. Crozier
returned the missile gravely, and Valliant, warding
it off with his foot, sent it through the
open door into the sitting-room, where it lay
upon the carpet unheeded.

Then the medical student lighted a cigarette
and watched his companion in silence. The
singer continued his occupation with indolent
gravity.

Our new tweed suit is very effective," said



Valliant, presently, poising his head sideways,
and gazing critically towards his companion.

Crozier ceased humming for a moment, and
pulled clown his waistcoat with a smile of
satisfaction.

I was told that it is a most successful turnout
— by the man who made it," he said,
with gentle irony. Then he opened a drawer
and took therefrom a dress-suit carefully
folded.

"We have, in addition, a new dress suit,"
said Valliant, with an amused smile.

"It is not new," said Crozier, quite gravely.
I always keep two going."

"Why?"

The singer did not answer at once. He
closed the bag and strapped 'it up vigorously.

One for the shady side, the other for the
sunny."

Valliant rose and walked slowly to the window.
There he stood with his hands in his pockets
contemplating the lime tree, while a thin spiral
column of smoke rose from the end of his

cigarette.



Which allegory meaneth what ? " he said,
indifferently and lightly.

One for Myra's and another for Goldheath —
one for Syra and another for . . . your cousin,"
explained the singer with a soft laugh. " Just
ring that bell," he continued, " and I will order
breakfast."

Valliant moved slightly, but not towards the
bell, which was almost within reach, and then
he stood swaying from side to side, lifting first
one foot and then the other.

Let us go across to Myra's for breakfast,"
he said, almost sharply, as he glanced backwards
over his shoulder.

Crozier passed behind him and rang the bell
himself, before he answered with a persistence
which would have surprised a close observer had
such been there to see. It was so unlike him,
so directly contrary to his indolent ways of
speech and action.

I have not the least intention of going over
to Myra's. It is much more comfortable here.
I asked you to breakfast ; you accepted, and
you must take the consequences. I have better



marmalade than Myra, and the forks do not
come ' all hot ' from a wooden tub behind the
counter."

Valliant laughed in his silent way and said
nothing. At this moment a voice in the sitting-room
called, out,

"Lesser!"

Breakfast, please, Mrs. Sanders."

Lesser ! "

Crozier was still occupied in a methodical,
slow way with his toilet. When the door of
the sitting-room had been closed somewhat
hastily behind the housekeeper, he said, without
looking towards his companion,

The talented Mrs. Sanders is a wonderful
woman. You observe that there is now no
sign of breakfast. In four minutes it will be
ready upon the table. She has her faults, however.
Even that wonderful woman has her
faults."

He drew on his coat and looked critically
round the room before continuing pensively,

Creaky boots," he murmured ; " creaky boots.
It is not a venial sin, but it serves to show that



she is only human after all. . . And — and I have
reason to believe that she brings most of the
breakfast-things up-stairs in her pockets. Now
I'm ready. Come along and witness Mrs.
Sanders' miracle."

Valliant followed his companion into the
other room and threw the end of his cigarette
into the fire. Then he turned, and in his usual
bantering way said,

Were your dulcet tones delighting the heart
of the British public last night ? "

Yes, I was singing at a smoking concert."

You are a fool, Samuel, to do that sort
of thing."

Why ? "

Well, I suppose you gave your services for
nothing. Of course it was a benefit."

"Yes."

You shouldn't do it, mon vieux. Keep your
market price up. People do not set a high
value on what costs them nothing. You ought
to be making more money than you are
making now with a voice like yours."

The pot is casting aspersions upon the


complexion of the kettle," said Crozier, as he
took up the morning paper from the breakfast-table.
" I am very happy as I am, my friend,"
he continued, with lazy good nature. Mrs.
Sanders cooks kidneys perfectly. Lime Court,
if not rural, is at least quiet and peaceful. My
soul hankers not after wealth."

Did you sing the song about the old sportsman
? "

The old sportsman . . . ? " echoed Crozier, in
surprise, as he looked over the paper towards
his companion. " Which old sportsman ? "

The venerable wild-goose chaser," explained
Valliant. " The new song you sang the other
night at Myra's."

"Oh yes. I sang it by way of an encore."
Then he continued reading the morning news,
and did not seem to hear his companion's muttered
remark made a few minutes later.

I like that song," Valliant said vaguely
and even seriously. " Have you put it in your
Gladstone ? " he added later in a louder voice.

I think so, but at all events I know it," was
the careless reply.



You had much better take it and — and then
Elma can play the accompaniment. She likes
doing so, I believe."

Over the newspaper a pair of deep-set earnest
eyes were fixed upon Yalliant's face. The possessor
of the eyes slowly moistened his lips.
The paper was quite motionless, the strong, heavy-featured
man then turned away and laid it aside.

Accompanying is never a pleasure," he said
indifferently.

There was a short silence, during which the
singer brought two chairs forward to the table.
Then Valliant spoke again.

She once told me that she liked accompanying
you," he said placidly.

I think it is in my bag," muttered the singer
in a tone which implied that he had no intention
of verifying his supposition.

At that moment Mrs. Sanders bustled into the
room, bearing an enormous tray. As predicted
by Crozier, breakfast was served in a few minutes,
and the two men sat down. Crozier did the
honours in a quick cleft way, pouring out the
coffee and moving the cups and plates with a



certain noiseless ease. Had Elma Yalliant been
there she would perhaps have detected a subtle
resemblance between his way of moving and
that of William Holdsworth, who, she thought,
did things like a sailor. It almost seemed as if
these two men had passed through the same
school.

By the way," said the singer, when Mrs.
Sanders had left the room, " you never told
me what Mrs. Valliant said in reply to your note.
I don't know whether I am invited or not."

Yalliant fumbled in his pockets.

I have a letter for you somewhere," he
replied. " I wonder where it is."

From Mrs. Yalliant," inquired the singer,
quietly.

His companion looked across the table sharply,
without however abandoning his search.

Yes, from the old lady herself."

Then I suppose it is all right ? "

Oh, yes. It is all right and . . . yes . . . here is
the letter."

The note was short, but kindly enough in its
stiff wording. Merely an invitation to go down



to Goldheath with Tom at the end of the week
and stay as long as was convenient, hospitably
expressed, but with no heartiness. People with
greenish gray eyes, around the iris of which
there is a distinct light-coloured rim, are never
hearty. There is no impulsiveness, no warmth
of self-sacrificing love in the soul that is hidden
behind such eyes as these.

Tom Yalliant took up the letter which his
companion had thrown across to him, and read it
with a smile in his quick, restless eyes.

I have seen my respected aunt," he said
cheerily, " under many different circumstances,
but I have never yet seen her sans starch.

Crozier made no reply to this remark, and
presently rose from the table to ring the bell and
request that a hansom cab should be called.

They drove to Waterloo Station through the
keen frosty air — a pair of cheery, heart whole
men, to all appearance.

The journey was slow and somewhat uneventful.
At the station they found the Goldheath
dog-cart under the care of a smart young groom,
who relinquished the reins to Tom with alacrity.



They're skating this morning, Mr. Tom,"
said the young fellow, as he jumped up behind.

On the Canal ? "

Yes, sir. On the Old Canal, and beautiful
ice it is. Miss Elmy sent me round by the
parsonage to ask Miss Gibb to go to the Court
and take her skates. And I believe there's some
gentlemen eomin' over as well."

What gentlemen ? " inquired Tom rather
sharply, as he cleverly guided the horse round a
nasty corner.

There's young Mr. Holds worth, sir — hint as
has been away so Ions; ; an' he's going to bring a
friend, I believe."

Tom made some remark to his companion on the
front seat, and the groom settled himself squarely,
with folded arms and a stony countenance.

When they drove up to the door of Goldheath
Court the squire was upon the step awaiting
their arrival.

How do, my dear boys, how der do ? " he
exclaimed heartily. " They have all just gone
down to the pond — Elma, that is, and Lily Gibb,
and those two men. My wife . . . well . let mc



see, she's about somewhere — speaking to the
servants, no doubt."

The two men returned the old fellow's hearty
grip, and then proceeded to unpack their skates
before t the fire in the carpeted hall. In a few
minutes they all passed out of a glass door at
the opposite side of the house, not into the
walled garden, but on to a large lawn where the
thin snow lay untouched by footsteps. There
were more cedars here, large solemn fellows with
mournful slice-like branches touched with white.
They skirted the lawn and came presently to a
railing. This they climbed, and in a few minutes
stood at the edge of a long narrow strip of water.
This had once been part of a canal running right
through Surrey and Sussex, but the Railway
Company, fearing opposition, had bought up the
water-way, with the view of allowing it to fall
into disrepair. Here and there short stretches
had been preserved for irrigation or ornament.

Elma Valliant, who was standing on the ice
with her skates already strapped on, came to
meet them at once, followed more leisurely by
a young lady on skates and two men on foot.



After the greetings were over a general introduction
followed, and the men raised their hats
vaguely.

Tom and Crozier immediately shook hands
with Varden, expressing some surprise at seeing
him there. Then Crozier looked quietly at
Holdsworth, to whom he had been introduced,
generally, a moment before. Holdsworth did
not, however, appear to notice this glance.

The two girls then glided away, leaving the
four men to put on their skates.

It happened that Holdsworth and Crozier were
next to each other, and they both saw that their
skates were identical, of a peculiar Canadian
pattern rarely seen in England. The former
remarked upon this at once, and Crozier with
a low laugh replied that he had noticed the fact.
The girls came back in a few. minutes and found
that Tom and Varden had fixed their Acres
and were ready. All four then shot away hand
in hand in long sweeps on the outside edge.

The two men seated on the bank were still
talking about their skates.

They take longer to put on, but they never


slip when once screwed up as Acres do,"
Elma heard Crozier say as she took Tom's
hand.

"There are none like them," replied Holds-worth.


"I have not skated this year," said Crozier,
bending over his foot.

Nor I," was the reply.

Then the skaters moved away and Elma heard
no more. Something in the manner of these two
men interested her. There was in both faces the
same slow observant look, and in their strong
persons there was a distinct resemblance of
carriage, notably of the shoulders and head.
Beside them Walter Varden looked lamentably
boneless and weak, although he was taller and
more carefully dressed.

When they were left alone Crozier raised his
head slightly as if to make sure that they were
out of earshot. Then he ceased screwing the nut
at his heel, and stamped his foot tentatively on
the ice.

He turned suddenly towards his companion
and his blue eyes seemed to contract.



What devil's work are you doing here ? " he
asked in a softly deliberate way.

Holdsworth seemed in no manner surprised.
He continued fixing his skate, but glanced
furtively towards his companion's hands, which
were lying strong and quiescent upon either
knee. Then he answered in a low voice —

That is my business."

Crozier did not change countenance. He rose
to his feet and stood upon the ice in front of
his companion, looking down at him with no
hardness in his earnest eyes.

"That style will not do with me," he said,
"you know me better than that."

Hang it, sir, ." began Holdsworth, then
he stopped suddenly. The last word had
slipped from his tongue inadvertently, and
he looked up with an awkward embarrassed
laugh.

The old habit sticks closely," he murmured,
deprecatingly.

Crozier's smile was also tinged with embarrassment,
but it was perhaps characteristic of
the man that he was in no way softened.



"Did you know I was coming to-day?" he
asked gravely.

Yes ! "

And you had the cheek to come too ? "

"Call it pluck," suggested Holdsworth, audaciously.
He dragged at his fluffy fair
moustache and glanced at Crozier with daring
blue eyes as he spoke.

Suppose' began Crozier, meditatively,
M suppose I had recognized you publicly and
called you by . . . by the name you sailed
under."

You are not the sort of man to make a
mistake of that description," said the other
coolly, and with no intention of flattery.

It never does to trust too much to luck.
It might have been very awkward," insisted
Crozier.

I didn't trust to luck, I trusted to you."

Then don't do it again." This was uttered
shortly and with a steady tone of determination
which Crozier assumed at times, and
which clashed with his indolent way of taking
the world. He glided away backwards, but

VOL T. 81

Holclsworth was now on his feet and skated
after him.

Oh," he said in a voice half-sneering and
half-pleading, "it is so easy to hit a fellow when
he is down, so confoundedly easy to prevent him
getting up again'

Are you trying to get up again ? " asked the
singer.

I cannot expect the attempt to be well
received at your hands," was the sullen reply.

They were now skating down the length of
the pond towards the rest of the party, each in
his individual and characteristic way — Crozier
backwards with a marked ease and assurance of
movement. Holclsworth keeping close to him,
advancing upon the outside edge with a greater
display of action and even some flourish, but not
so firmly set upon the ice.

Crozier glanced over his shoulder before replying.
They were still some way from the rest
of the party.

"That is bosh," he said quietly, "and you
know it."

Perhaps there was a slight softening of tone,


or it may have been that a sudden recollection
arose before Holdsworth's mind. At all events
his manner suddenly changed.

"Ah, Crozier," he exclaimed eagerly, "you
are the only man who has gone out of his way
to help me. Don't turn against me now. I
have tried, man ; I've tried hard. Don't push
me downhill now. Give me another chance. I
cannot be wholly bad. I was a good sailor —
remember that. Whatever I was, I made a good
sailor."

Yes," replied the singer absently, " you were
a good sailor, a better one than I was myself
most likely ."

Suddenly he stopped, his eyes acquired at
that instant a hard, almost metallic look. His
strong face was fixed and rigid. The other saw
it and grew ashy pale.

"By God," he whispered, "your time is not
up. I have a good memory for dates ! "

"Look out," gasped Holdsworth. "Here is
Valiant!"



PLAYMATES.

AT this moment Tom Valliant skated up to
them.

Do come," he cried out, " and see Yarden's
figure eight. It is certainly the very finest thing
of the kind that I have ever seen. He does the
first loop splendidly, and then sits down."

The two men laughed, and followed him at
once. Walter Varden, who was the w r worst skater
present, was attempting to conceal the fact under
a flow of technical terms and phrases. A sort
of competition w T as presently set on foot, and all
the party stood in a group. In this, Holds worth
undoubtedly came out the best man. There was
a certain dash and recklessness in his performance,
which, if of doubtful value in life, is useful



upon skates. While this was still going on Tom
Valliant moved to his cousin's side, and under
cover of a loud laugh, in which every one joined
except Varden, he took her hand and drew her
away.

Come round the pond with me," he said, " I
have something to tell you."

There may perhaps have been a shadow of
hesitation in her smile, but she obeyed him
instantly, and with crossed hands they shot
away.

I suppose, Elma," he said carelessly, " that
Crozier has not spoken to you about me, or my
affairs."

No," she replied shortly.

I did not expect that he had," continued her
cousin. " The praiseworthy manner in which
the grave Samuel minds his own affairs is almost
worthy of a better cause."

He has not spoken at all except to say ' how
do you do ! ' " murmured she, indifferently.

Elma and Tom were almost of the same height,
for he was not a tall man. He glanced sideways
at her with those quick merry eyes of his, and



drew her towards him a little, so that his grip
was firmer round her fingers, for the ice was
hard and difficult.

And yet with all his aversion to meddling
with other people's affairs he is the cause of our
being here now."

Indeed," she said, laughingly. " Did he
think you required a change of air, or did you, as
his medical adviser, prescribe the same for him."

Neither, ma cousine. He was pleased to
proclaim it necessary under circumstances which
have arisen that I should come down to Gold-heath,
confess the circumstances, and seek the
advice of my honoured relatives."

She looked at him suddenly with a wondering
smile curling her lips, which were very red and
dainty.

What are the circumstances ? " she asked.
"Though my advice can hardly be of much
value."

He turned quickly, as if about to contradict
the last statement, but appeared to change his
mind.

The circumstances," he began, with mock


pomposity, " are briefly these. Nearly a year
ago Sam gave a bachelor's party ; perhaps you
remember it. There were a lot of clever fellows
there, and not least among these was your
devoted admirer — the deponent. One fellow
played the mandolin, another played something
else, and I, as usual, played the fool. During
the evening Sam sans; several songs, and onions
them he sang the ' Bridge.' I don't know which
bridge or what bridge, but he declared that he
was there at midnight as the clock was striking
the hour. When he had finished sinmno r , one
of the men there, a well-known publisher, said
that he believed that there was a fortune to be
made by illustrating Longfellow's Poems, and
that it ought to be a comparatively easy task.
Presently the subject was changed, and was not
again referred to before the men left. When
they had all gone, somewhere about three in the
morning, Sam and I sat down to have a last
solemn pipe. After we had been meditating
upon the political condition of our fatherland for
some time, he took his pipe from his mouth, and
looked at me in his most gravely melancholy



manner. You know the way he looks at one
when he is going to be rather funny."

Yes' said Elma softly, " I know."

I suppose you will start tomorrow morning,"
he said quietly. " 1 asked him what he was
driving at, and he explained that I would be a
fool not to have a shot at illustrating Longfellow.
I had a shot, Elma. I tried for it . . . and . . .
and I've won."

He broke off into a short laugh, and looked
away past her, across the low meadow towards
the dark belt of pine trees.

"I am very very glad," she said softly, and in
her sweet voice there was a thrill of heartfelt
sincerity. She was quite grave, and his jesting
reply must have struck harshly upon her ears.

Sam says it is luck," he laughed, " whereas
I am of the opinion that it is genius."

And what are you going to do ? " she asked.
I suppose you will give up St. Antony's ! "

If she failed to appear excited over Tom's
good fortune it was because she had not seen
the book, because she did not know how great
and assured its success was considered by experts ;



and if he was disappointed in the manner in
which she received the news he had only to
blame his own off-hand way of imparting it. It
was often a difficult matter to define exactly
where gravity merged into jest with Tom Yalliant,
and being a sensitive man he had received many
a little rankling stab from no other reason than
that he had been misunderstood.

M My dear, Elma," he now said, with a smile,
"that is precisely why I am here. It is because
I do not know myself, or do not care, that I
seek your advice and that of your stern parents''

Have you told them ? " she asked.

"No," he answered, with a sudden access of
gravity. " No ; I wanted to tell you . , . first
of all."

She was pleased to ignore his gravity.

Because of the superior value of my advice ?
she asked, with a flash of mischievous eyes.

Of course," he answered laughingly. The
group at the end of the pond had broken up,
and at this moment Crozier passed near to them.
Tom stopped him.

Sam ! " he cried. " Samuel ! "


The singer swung round and faced them.
Valliant half extended his hand as if to invite
him to join them, but Crozier did not appear
to notice it, although Elrna's quick eyes detected
the movement at once.

I have been telling; Elma about that book,"
said Valliant.

Ah ! " He turned towards the girl at once
with his slow smile.

You must congratulate him," he added ; " he
has made a great hit ! "

Then he skated away. The manoeuvre was
not well executed. His intention of leaving
them alone was too obvious, and they both
experienced a little momentary shock of antagonism
towards him. Considering that he had
been distinctly invited to join them, the movement
was a mistake.

Tom was annoyed, and changed the subject
almost immediately, with a murmur to the effect
that Elma would see the book later. Presently
he left her, and his place was taken without
delay by Holds worth, w T hose style of skating
suited Elrna's admirably.



Her new companion made himself very
agreeable, exercising freely a pleasant gift of
talking happily upon trifling subjects. But
Elma was absent-minded. She answered briefly
though kindly enough, and her laugh had that
peculiar ring in it which betrays a lack of
interest. Presently, however, she accorded a
greater attention to him, and even encouraged
his sallies by bright responses of her own. She
had seen that Yalliant and Crozier were now
skating together with the usual kindly exchange
of chaff, which dispelled a half conceived fear
that there was some cloud upon the horizon of
their friendship.

She was very desirous of speaking with Crozier
before Tom produced the book which promised
so well, but no opportunity occurred before the
luncheon-bell was heard. She even began to
think that the singer was purposely avoiding
her, which is a dangerous thought to harbour,
for it gathers evidence, like a cunning attorney,
where none exists.

After luncheon they all returned to the pond,
and it was then that Crozier had a severe fall.



There had been much tumbling about, but no
one had been hurt. Crozier's fall, however, was
something nastier, as he was going a great pace
at the time, and came down heavily upon his
shoulder. Moreover it was not his own fault,
which perhaps made matters worse. Walter
Varden was executing a very elaborate figure,
and fell j must in time to upset Crozier as he came
rapidly backwards on the outside edge. Both
men sat on the ice and laughingly apologized.
Presently they rose and continued skating,
but the singer soon went towards a small garden-seat
which had been brought to the edge of the
water.

I am going to smoke," he said with grave
jocularity to Tom, "and recover my shattered
senses."

From that little garden-seat he watched them
all — watched Holds worth skating with Elma,
and watched Tom Valliant watching Holds worth.
At the same time he smoked meditatively with
many a speculative glance at the burning end
of his cigar. Occasionally his deep-set eyes
solemnly followed the movements of Walter



Varden and Miss Gibb, not that these personages
were interesting, but because they formed a
necessary part of the picture.

He was in no manner surprised when Elm a
left Holdsworth and came towards him.

I am a little tired," she explained, as she
took her place at his side upon the seat, and
then she sat with rather heightened colour,
breathing rapidly from her late exertions.

It is about this time in the afternoon," said
Crozier, " that pensiveness comes upon us."

Then he recollected his cigar, and glanced over
his shoulder to see where he could throw it.

If you throw it away I shall go," said Elma,
and I want to sit here, so please be reasonable."

He inclined his head by way of thanking her,
and continued smoking.

I am always reasonable," he said, with slow
humour, " and by seeking to combine close
attention to the interests of the nobility and
gentry with prompt execution of orders, S. C.
hopes to receive continued patronage."

"If S. C. would kindly be serious for a few
minutes I should be much obliged."



Sum befell," he murmured, turning towards
her. " What riddle are } r ou about to propound ? "

Firstly," she replied, with a little imperious
smile, " I want to know if you hurt yourself
just now."

Not at all, thank you ; it was only a shake.
I am getting rather old to roll about, and . . .
and as I observed before, a certain pensiveness
comes over man and beast at this time in the
afternoon."

In completion of his meaning he slightly
raised his cigar and glanced at it.

Quite sure ? " she asked, with her pretty head
poised sideways.'

Quite," he answered carelessly, almost
rudely, in face of her evident sympathy. " Has
Tom told you all about the book ? " he added at
once, with the obvious intention of changing the
subject.

I think so," she replied, looking across the
ice towards her cousin ; " but I have no doubt
that you can tell me more''

"Yes!"

Tom's account of it was — to say the least —


sketchy. Most of his statements are sketchy,
I think. Is it really going to be a success,
Mr. Crozier ? I mean enough of a success to
justify his giving up medicine and taking to
art."

I think so," he said quietly, with no hesitation,
no mock modesty.

And," she added with a business-like little
turn of the head, " will the sale be large ? "

He smiled involuntarily at her evident delight
in her own show of commercial shrewdness.

Yes," he said, " I think it will be large. In
fact by the arrangement which has been made
with the publisher it should bring him in a
small income for some years. The publisher has
been very generous."

I did not know that Tom was such a goodman
of business."

She had turned a little and was looking
directly at him.

No," he answered rather consciously. " He
is very far-sighted, I think, though he is pleased
to conceal the fact."

Who made the arrangement ? " she asked,


with a momentary gleam beneath her demurely
lowered lashes.

"The arrangement . . . oh . . . er — I made the

arrangement,

o

))

He drew in his feet and stooped to examine
the fastenings of his skates with a critical eye.

She laughed a clear rippling little laugh, and
leant back, dangling her feet with girlish enjoyment
of her small triumph.

You are very good to Tom," she said with
sudden gravity ; "an invaluable friend."

The obligation is no more on one side than
on the other," he replied. " ' We halve our griefs,
and double our joys.' "

She recognized the ring of a quotation in the
low tones of his voice, and asked —

Who said that ? "

Somebody defined friendship in that way . . .
Lord Bacon, I believe."

For some moments they sat in silence, listening
to the long continuous ring of the ice
beneath the bright blades. It was a still evening-such
as often comes in February. The pine-trees
all round them, like voiceless sentinels, seemed

9fi

to watch and wait. All the western sky was
ruddy with a dismal cold glow not yet speaking
of spring. But the two sitting there did not
seem to feel the cold, and they watched the
skaters with superficial interest. At last she
moved a little.

I wish I could remember things like that,"
she said ; " I am afraid I forget everything that
I read or hear."

Urn — " he murmured, and smoked harder.

You seem to have read a great deal," she
continued.

He had thrown away his cigar and was
leaning; forward with his elbows resting; on his
knees, and his strong, brown hands clasped
restful] y. He turned towards her without
actually looking into her face.

You see," he explained in a practical way,
sailors have plenty of time on their hands in
fine weather, and — and I suppose, taking it all
in all, there is more fine weather to be met with
than bad. When I was a sailor I read a good
deal."

She did not answer at once. It almost seemed
vol. i. 97 7

as if she had caught a little of his indolent
pensiveness and indifference.

I always understood," she said in a slow
way, which dispensed with the necessity of a
direct answer, " that sailors never quite settle
down on land."

No . . . no, perhaps you are right."

You are still fond of the sea ? " she said, with
soft interrogation.

Yes. Some day, when I am a rich man
(through the exertions of some one else of
course), I shall keep a yacht."

He looked thoughtfully over the still trees
towards the southern heavens, where huge clouds
hung lazily with softly-rounded edges and a
wondrous look of " distance " about them. She
concluded that he was thinking of his beloved
sea, but in that she was wrong. The past
occupied no place in his mind.

And yet," she said tentatively with a
woman's quick sympathy, " you left it by your
own free will."

He shook his head slowly and sat back in the

seat.



Xot quite," he replied with a smile. " It
was a case of mistaken duty — of giving way to
an over-sensitive conscience. I do not err in
that way now. "When my father died my mother
completely broke down. I was on the China
station then, and I thought it my duty to come
home, even if I had to give up the sea in order
to do it. When I reached England she had been

o

buried three weeks."

He spoke quite intentionally, and there was
almost a speculative feeling in his voice as if he
were relating an incident in the life of some one
else, wondering over the possible effect in a
semi-interested way.

At this moment William Holdsworth passed
before them.

"Tired V he said, with respectful familiarity
to Elma, and glided away with a meaning smile
before she had time to reply.

I sometimes think," she said presently, in a
lower voice, "that Willy Holdsworth should have
been a sailor. There is something about the way
in which he holds himself, and the movements of



his hands that reminds me of . . . of you, and of
other naval men."

Without turning his head he glanced at her
face. She was watching Holdsworth with a little
interested smile.

What is he ? n he asked, indifferently.

Nothing, at present," was the reply. He
came home from abroad, somewhere, three
months ago. Since that he has lived with his
parents. Their house is about five miles away.
They are very very old, and I have been told that
he is a devoted son, now."

Sam Crozier made no answer to this, and soon
he rose, holding out his band.

Come," he said, " let us skate. You will catch
cold if you sit here too long in the twilight."

Presently he handed her over to the care of
Tom Valliant, and continued to sweep about in
long sure curves by himself. He seemed to love
solitude for its own sake. Certain it is that he
preferred his own society to that of Holdsworth,
Varden, or even the lively Miss Gibb. Now that
he had brought Tom and Elma together, he was



quite content to spend the last hour of their
day's pleasure alone — whirling, skimming, gliding

from side to side, from end to end of the long

sheet of ice.

His strong, gentle face was restful as it always
was, his deep-set eyes contemplative and very
soft in their earnestness. In short, the man was
strong, with that great, deep, enduring strength
which is independent of human sympathies. Few
men of this stamp pass through their allotted
years without doing some good, lightening some
burdens, and holding up some stumblers. They
are seldom beloved by the many, for the many
know them not ; but the lives around them if
not brighter, are surer in their brightness and
braver in their shadows for the unconscious influence
wielded by strength over great and small.

+&

b> 4



CHAPTER VII.

CROZIER S LIE.

'I/TES. Valiant had scruples about asking
-*-"■*■ Crozier to sing more than one or two
songs. She felt, perhaps, that it was a species
of charity for which she was seeing ; attempting
to get for nothing, as it were, a commodity for
which money was demanded. But Elma was
not held back by such doubts as these, estimable
and admirable as they certainly were. After
dinner that evening she seated herself airily at
the piano, and swung round upon the revolving
music-stool towards Crozier with her hands
clasped upon her lap.

"Now," she said, imperiously, " how many
songs have you brought ? "

Two or three," was the reply.



My dear Elma," murmured Mrs. Yalliant,
reproachfully, "how can you be so high-handed
? Just when Tompkins was bringing in
the coffee too. What will the servants think
of you ? "

Tom winked at Crozier over his coffee-cup and
promptly went to his cousin's assistance.

Ah, Aunt Minnie, you see El ma knows how
to treat Sam. If she asked him prettily to
oblige us with a song, he would hum and ha,
and wait to be pressed. I know the man. That
is the way to overcome him. Push him, don't
try to draw him with silken cords."

He laughed, his quick infectious laugh, and
stepped forward respectfully to take Mrs. Valliant's
empty coffee-cup. Then he crossed the
room and took possession of a low chair near
the piano. There he leant back and gave himself
over to the enjoyment of the music. His
quick sensitive nature was easily touched by
outward influences, and Crozier's sino-king: was
always an unalloyed pleasure to him.

From his position at the side of the piano
he was closer to Elma than Crozier, who stood



behind her, and her dress thrown carelessly aside
fell over his extended feet. He leant back and
unconsciously watched his cousin, noting the play
of her deft ringers, and the little frown that
came over her face at the difficult passages.
Once or twice when the song; was well known to
her, she forgot her anxiety about the accompaniment,
and followed dreamily with her lightly
mobile head the rise and fall of the splendid
voice.

All this Tom Yalliant noticed as he lay softly
smiling;, and there was something else that impressed
itself upon his memory. This was, that
Sam Crozier never looked down at the fair girl
who was playing for him. His eyes kept strictly
to the music-book, although he stood so far back
that he could not possibly have read the words.
When she turned round to him to ask some
question with reference to the accompaniment,
or to demand his aid in the selection of the next
song, he looked past her towards the book in a
business-like, almost professional way, which was
not quite natural.

After singing for some time he asked her to


play, and she did so on condition, laughingly
made, that it was only in order to allow him a
rest. When she began he had been standing
behind her, and at last she finished with a
decisive little flourish, and swung round. But it
was only to find that he had noiselessly crossed
the room, and was sitting; beside her father
and mother near the fire. Somehow she had
expected him to remain standing near to the
piano, and the incident struck her at the moment
and remained in her memory.

Thank you," said Crozier, looking up for a
moment from a book which lay open before him.

Then she turned towards her cousin who was
sitting near her, leaning forward in order to
thank her.

"Tom," she said, in a voice which, without
being purposely lowered, must have been inaudible
at the far end of the room, " can you' not
stay over Monday ? "

He leant farther forward, and for a moment
his eyes were quite grave.

1 ? " he inquired, touching his breast with one
finger.



With lier lips she formed the single word
Do ! " — not speaking it, but expressing it
with a coquettish little pout.

I ? " he whispered again, (: or both ? " And
with his eves he indicated Crozier.

She shrugged her shoulders, and played a few
chords carelessly.

As you like," she replied, " and as he likes."

Tom Valliant leant back in his low seat again
and crossed his legs. His cousin began playing
again, a light German air, much in vogue just at
that time, and he rubbed his slim hands slowly
one over the other, as he looked vaguely across
the room towards Crozier. Presently he roused
himself.

Oh, nightingale," he exclaimed, dramatically,
come and warble. We have not had the new
song yet."

The singer obeyed, and sang two songs. Then
he said that they had had enough, and closed
the book in his lazily decisive way.

I have been trying," said Elma, in a low
voice, as she turned half aside towards Crozier,
to persuade Tom to stay over Monday. The



frost is going to hold good and the skating will
be worth staying for."

Both of us, of course ? " put in Torn, with a
short laugh.

Crozier took no notice of this. He was
arranging the music on the piano, and he looked
down at her with his blue eyes, softened by a
smile.

Do not persuade," he said. " Make him du it."

Can I ? " she inquired, saucily.

Of course you can," replied he, looking
towards Tom, who, however, did not meet his
glance. " There is absolutely nothing to take him
to town, and the matter of his brilliant future
can be discussed in the family circle till it is
worn threadbare."

Valliant drew in his feet, and rose suddenly
with the evident intention of crossing the room
towards the fire-place.

"Phantom future, my boy, phantom future,"
he exclaimed in tragic tones. "Not brilliant
future. If you stay, I will ; not otherwise."

I do not believe that he wants to stay," said
Elma, playfully.



Valiant moved away, but Crozier raised his
arm and detained him.

My dear Tom," he said, " I cannot stay. I
wish I could, but I have an engagement on
Monday night."

Break it," suggested Elma.

Crozier shook his head.

Valliant looked down at his cousin gravely.
She was sitting before them on the music-stool
in her favourite half-girlish attitude, with her
hands folded upon her lap. She swung from
side to side in a jerky way, making the stool
revolve.

Sam never breaks an engagement," he said,
steadily.

She laughed merrily, not without a suggestion
of mischief.

Oh no," she said, " of course not."

"The worst of it is," put in Crozier, "that
there is no sentimental consolation to be got out
of it on this occasion. It is not a charity concert,
so I cannot claim sympathy. As there is money
to be considered in the question, Miss Yalliant,
you will understand that I must go."



Well," she replied gaily, " Tom must stay at
all events." She rose and passed across the
room with her cousin.

Crozier, who did not follow them, at once
noticed that she expressed no regret that he
should be obliged to go, and yet some expression
of this sort was the least that he might have
expected. He closed the piano and stood for
some moments contemplating the little group
round the fire-place. Tom was talking gaily in
his usual chaffing style, and the singer saw
that his friend's merry dark eyes followed his
cousin's every movement and every glance
with a persistence that was almost furtive at
times.

A week," meditated the watcher as he
brushed aside his brown moustache with a
quick backward movement of the finger. c< A
week together would do it . . . but . but
why does he keep constantly harping on that
old joke about the phantom future ? I wish I
had never sung the song."

Then he crossed the room and joined in the
discussion which was going on relative to the



book of ' Poetical Works illustrated by Tom
Valliant.

Later in the evening, as the young people
stood together in the long broad passage that
ran the whole length of the house, lighting
their bed-room candles, Elma again returned to
the question.

Tom," she said, with a little imperious nod,
"you are going to stay over Monday."

He shrugged his shoulders and laughed as he
swung lightly round on his heel to face her.

I should like to," he said, " and I suppose I
will because Sam says I must. I generally do
what he wants me to, sooner or later ; n'est-ce-pas,
Samuel."

Crozier smiled. He was busy straightening
the wick of his candle with a match, and the
flame flickered, casting its searching light upward
upon his powerful head and face, which
would have been unpleasantly resolute had it
not been for the lazy pensiveness of the deep-set
eyes.

Invariably," he answered, " when your own
wish tallies with mine."



"And you," said Elma, turning to him, "will
come back on Tuesday morning for some more
skating, as mother suggested."

Thank you," he said, gravely, " if I can
manage it."

She moved away a little and glanced quickly
into his face. He was still interested in the
wick of the candle.

I have," said Tom, lightly touching his
shirt-front, " an aching conviction just here, that
he will not turn up on Tuesday morning."

Elma laughed merrily and looked at Crozier.
She had moved away as if to go to her room,
but she stood still again a few yards from them.

I have my doubts," she said, mischievously.

Miss Valliant," said the singer with, quizzical
reproach, " you tacitly admitted just now that I
was not the sort of man to break his engagements.
Remember that the man who keeps an
engagement for money may be expected to keep
one for pleasure. If I were you I should not
count upon my failing to turn up on Tuesday."

I shall take care not to do so," she said,
laughingly, as she went up-stairs.

Ill

Nevertheless, she knew as well as if he had
told her that Samuel Crozier had no intention
then of coming back to Goldheath. She also
knew that with a man of his stamp intentions
once conceived are usually carried out. Some of
us may consider it a mistake, this unswerving
adherence to a pre-conceived plan. Doubtless it
leads to sorrow, but what does not ultimately
trend downwards to that same £coal ? If a mistake
be made is it not better to stand by it — to
steer the straight est course possible under the
circumstances, and press bravely forward through
the broken water to the smooth depths which
(we are asked to believe) exist beyond ? A good
pilot does not " down-helm " and put the ship
about on n earing the rocks, it is wiser to hold
on the same tack and find a way through.
Better come to grief in advancing than in
retreating.

Tom Yalliant accompanied his friend to his

bed-room, but he did not stay long. Crozier

was tired and unresponsive, he sank into a low

chair before the fire and stretched out his legs

with a groan of comfort, answering Tom's remarks



by monosyllables. At last the younger
man left the room with a cheery " good-night."
Then the singer rose from his seat and stood
with his hands in his pockets and his feet
slightly apart on the hearth-rug. He was nota
clever man, this musician, not very brilliant,
not too intellectual ; but he was steadfast, very
steadfast, and as true as steel. In the course of
a wandering life he had seen many things that
had puzzled him, strange unsatisfactory men and
incomprehensible women. He had moved in
many grades of society. Among men — from
the gun-room to Myra's. Among musicians —
from Chatham Music Hall to St. James's. Among
women — from Syra, and lower than Syra, to his
aristocratic mother. In all circles and under all
circumstances he had experienced no difficulty in
steering his own course, guided by that subtle
sense of refinement which is the true instinct of
gentlemanliness. Through everything he had
(as he jocosely informed Syra one night) endeavoured
to remember that he was a gentleman,
and in view of that remembrance he had this
evening considered it expedient to act and
vol. i. 113 8

practically tell a lie in a lady's drawing-room
to a lady's face, looking into her eyes with his,
innocently and calmly. He knew he had done
it well. He had even led up to the invitation
to return to Goldheath before accepting it with
as much eagerness as he ever displayed in anything.
Elma had expressed her complete satisfaction
with the arrangement, her father had
added a few hearty words of welcome, and Tom
had been merrily appeased. Crozier, however,
never had the intention of returning, and now
he was puzzling himself as to how Tom and
Elma had found this out. Concerning the
former, he did not trouble himself much. Tom
Valliant had an irresponsible way of saying, at
hap-hazard, things he did not mean, and his
friends soon learnt to set small store by such
remarks. His statements — as Elma observed —
were often sketchy. But with Elma herself it
was a different matter. There were many
reasons why the singer did not wish her to
think that he was desirous of avoiding a longer
visit to Goldheath, so many that he did not
attempt to define them. And he knew — he had



read in her eyes as she looked back over her
shoulder with one foot on the stairs — that she
was fully aware of his intention.

He stood for some time before the fire, and
arrived no nearer to a solution : then he bean
to think of going to bed. It was strange how
wakeful he now appeared to be. From the
button-hole of his dress-coat he proceeded to
unpin a flower in the mechanical manner with
which some men wind their watch at the mere
mention of bed. It was a single spray of lily
of the valley which Elma had given him before
dinner, presenting one to her cousin at the same
time. He raised it to his face and critically
inhaled the odour.

Dead ! " he muttered, and deliberately threw
it into the fire, where it writhed and crackled,
then he turned away peaceably, humming an
operatic air.

"^^^-



RESURRECTION PIE.

THE next afternoon brought with it Holds-worth
and Varden, who arrived about three
o'clock with their skates, having walked the
distance. It happened that they came rather
mal-apropos. Some snow had fallen in the
night, and in view of his wife's consideration of
her servants' feelings the Squire had deemed it
prudent to refrain from proposing that the pond
be swept. Elma did not want to skate, because
forsooth she had too fine a dress, and was too
indolent to change it. Tom had his suspicions
that she was aware of its becoming her exceedingly
well, and therefore preferred to continue
wearing it, and this opinion he audaciously aired.
It was settled, however, that there was to be


no skating, a walk being substituted, and a few
moments later the two men arrived.

Oh hang ! " said Tom aloud, when he saw
them pass the window.

Confound that fellow Holdsworth ! " thought
Crozier.

The two new arrivals expressed themselves
delighted at the notion of a walk. They were
not at all tired, and would as soon walk as skate.

On leaving the house, Holdsworth made a
gallant attempt to get to Elma's side, but failed.
Tom Valliant was before him, and Crozier's quiet
eyes were fixed on his face with a significant
persistence, which said only too plainly that if
he succeeded he would not be left in undisputed
possession. The quiet gaze of those eyes haunted
Holdsworth as he walked on by the side of Squire
Valliant. He knew that the singer had something
to say to him, something unpleasant and probably
true ; he felt that sooner or later in the afternoon
he would get him alone, and say it in that gentle
undeniable way which was so hard to meet, and
he recognized when too late that he had made a
mistake in coming to Goldheath again.



Nevertheless, William Wordsworth laughed and
chatted gaily with the genial old squire. He was
a courageous fellow in his reckless, jaunty way,
and he knew it, which made him over-confident.

Crozier had something to say to the returned
ne'er-do-weel, and he succeeded, in his deliberate
way, in walking with him alone at last, although
it was not until they had turned homewards
again. He came to the point at once.

Wordsworth," he said, " this sort of thing
won't do ! "

"What sort of thing?"

I should recommend you not to come to
Goldheath quite so often."

Holdsworth's quick eyes flashed round towards
his companion. He touched the turf lightly
with his stick several times.

"This is not the quarter-deck," he remarked
insolently.

No," murmured the singer gently. He threw
a significance into the monosyllable, which made
his companion bite his lip in vexation.

Why should I not come to Goldheath ? "
was the sullen rejoinder.



Because," said Crozier, " you are doing no
good here."

What business is it of yours ? "

11 None."

Holds worth felt that he was getting no further
on. It would be worse than folly to lose his
temper with Crozier, who was never ruffled, and
he felt that he was verging on to a display of
heat.

The men used to say," he muttered, u that
you were a gentleman. "Is it a gentlemanly
thing to bully a man when he is down ? "

"Look here," said Crozier, with an uncomfortable
ring of anger in his voice. " Look here,
Holdsworth. If you think that I am going to
stand by with my hands in my pockets, and
watch you make love to Miss Valliant, you are
greatly mistaken."

They walked on in silence for some distance.
Holdsworth edged away from his companion a
yard or so as if to think in solitude. Then he
went closer to him so that their arms touched.

"I have never quite understood," he said
softly, " why you should have troubled with meat



all. You were the only man on board who
had a good word for me, the only fellow I have
met in the whole of my useless career who held
out a hand to help me. I suppose it's no good
telling you that I did try. I tried, sir, to keep
straight, not for my own sake, but for yours,
to show you that I was not quite a blackguard.
But it was useless ; I went wrong again. Either
I'm the luckiest chap that has ever lived, or
I'm a blackguard. I used to think, Crozier,
that I was one, with no hope of ever being anything
else. Then one day I came home. I
found it was not so hard to keep straight after
all. The old folks were very good to me — very
glad to see me. That was the beginning. Then
I went to Goldheath one day and saw Elma . . .
that was the end."

They had come to a stile, over which Crozier
vaulted, but his companion made no attempt
to follow him, and they stood leaning on the
topmost bar, one on each side.

You never were the fellow to leave a thing
half done," pleaded Holdsworth. "You have
given me more chances than any man on earth,



give me this one more. Let me thy. I think
she cares for me."

Crozier actually smiled — the last remark was
so absurdly characteristic of the man. The
singer had pulled a little branch of blackthorn
from the hedge, and was biting it pensively.


You forget' he said ironically, " that I
knew you out there."

Holds worth looked at him.

"You mean . . . that other girl," he whispered
hoarsely.

I mean that other girl," affirmed the singer.
There was a peculiar embarrassment about his
manner of speaking which Holdsworth did not
understand until later.

She is dead," said Holdsworth, in a softer
tone.

Crozier lifted his head suddenly as a man
lifts his head upon hearing a distant, uncertain
sound, which he cannot explain. Still holding
the little twig of blackthorn between his short

o

strong teeth, he turned and looked into his
companion's eyes.



That is a lie ! " he said, almost exultingly.

Holdsworth promptly made himself safe.

To the best of my knowledge she is dead."

She is alive," said Crozier, moving a little,
and crossing his feet in order to lean more
comfortably against the stile.

Where is she ? "

I am too kindly disposed towards her to
tell you that," said the singer.

By God, Crozier, you're a hard man ! "
exclaimed Holdsworth.

Before replying the other turned and looked
speculatively at him.

Perhaps I am," he said in a softer manner.
Perhaps I am, but you have done it. You
have shaken my faith in human nature more
than anything or any person I have met
with."

Holdsworth turned away and looked across
the level meadows where the snow lay whitely.
His companion stood in a square, immoveable
way, with his shoulders against the polished bar
of the stile. He brushed aside his moustache
with that peculiar backward movement of the



fingers which was the only quick thing about
him ; coming at times in strange contrast as a
suggestion of powers quiescent.

"I suppose," said Holdsworth, "that it is
hard for } r ou to realize the position of a fellow
who has fought against bad luck from the very
beginning. Hitherto I have had nothing to
save me, nothing to urge me on to better things.
With you it is different."

What have I ? " interrupted the singer.

You ? Why, you have your voice."

Yes, " returned Crozier slowly, without any
suggestion of vanity, speaking as if the possession
were something that he had found at the
road-side. " Yes, that is true. I have my
voice."

"And now," continued the other, "now that
I have a real chance, surely you will let me try
and hold it."

You forget . . . the other girl ! "

I believe she is dead."

I know for a positive fact that she is alive."

Then," exclaimed Holdsworth, " tell me her
address."



What good would it do her ? What good
would it do you ? "

"Well," began Holdsworth, w 7 with the hesitation
of a man who is not telling the strict truth, "of
course I owe her some reparation. I could
at least see that she is not suffering from
want."

Oh, that is all right," said Crozier unguardedly.


Holdsworth looked at him sharply.

Indeed," he said, slowly clasping his hand
round his weak chin, half-hidden by a fair beard
of apparently recent growth, " you seem to know
a good deal about it."

The singer made no reply. He moved his
legs slightly, and taking a case from his pocket,
selected a cigarette from it which he lighted,
while his companion watched every movement
with a puzzled expression.

How is it all right ? " he continued. "Does
she make her own living or, or . is it charity ? "

Crozier shruo-ored his shoulders and glanced at

DO ~

his companion's face through a cloud of smoke.
I suppose you would call it charity."


"Charity," muttered the other jealously,
whose charity ? "

The singer smoked in silence, looking straight
in front of him with contracted eyebrows. He
would not answer the question, but Holdsworth
knew now.

I don't understand you, Crozier," he said unsteadily.
Then suddenly jealousy, that strange
unhealthy jealousy which inconstant men suffer
on hearing or suspecting that another has taken
up what they have left, came into his heart.

Charity," he insinuated with horrible significance
— " charity from a young man to a devilish
pretty girl. People might misconstrue it."

That is my business ! "

Crozier moved away, and his companion
vaulted over the stile and followed him.

"Crozier," he hissed, "give me her address."

Why ? "

Hang it, man, I love her still."

Crozier walked on rapidly. He heaved a
weary sigh.

"You have a large heart," he said with biting

sarcasm.



I thought she was dead," pleaded the other.
I did, indeed."

And so turned to the living ? "

I suppose so."

Crozier laughed unpleasantly and made no
further comment.

"I believe," said Holdsworth presently, "that
you love Elma Yalliant yourself."

The singer turned and looked at him gravely.
His cigarette was almost finished. He drew one
long inhalation and threw the burning end into
the snow, where it frizzled faintly. Then he
emitted the smoke pensively in a thin spiral
column.

You are at perfect liberty," he said quietly,
and without any suggestion of embarrassment,
to believe anything you like. It will not
affect me. For the sake of convenience we will
say that I want Elma Yalliant for myself, and
consequently if I catch you endeavouring to
take the wind out of my sails I will make
things uncommonly hot. And now let us drop
the subject."

They walked home in silence. It was not that


there was only the choice of speaking of the pastor
keeping silence. They could have conversed
pleasantly enough upon indifferent topics if they
had so wished, or if it had been necessary orinoco
the presence of others; but both were occupied
with their own thoughts, and they knew each
other well enough to find silence devoid of
embarrassment.

Samuel Crozier was by no means a domineering
man. He found nothing but displeasure and
disgust in the position in which he was placed.
Some men there are who take delight in the

there sense of a commanding position ; to possess
power over their fellows, to dictate the corning
and going of others, is in itself a distinct satisfaction.
These men were undoubtedly bullies at
school. But the ex-sailor was not of this class,
and even while accusing him of it, Holdsworth
knew that he was no bully. Nevertheless there
was in the man the instinct of exacting obedience
which, like the art of making music or writing
books, crops up in unexpected quarters where it
is frequently allowed to run to waste. Frail
women often have it while some big men cannot



acquire it even when conscious of the failing.
Perhaps this instinct had been fostered greatly
by the fact that Crozier had, when quite a boy,
found himself in a position of command over
men old enough to be his father — perhaps it was
merely a part of his nature. Be that how it
may, he never doubted that Holdsworth must
obey him, although their wills had clashed before,
when the gold lace on his own sleeve gave him a
practically unlimited power over the unruly blue-jacket,
which he hesitated to take advantage of.
He had not lost sight of the fact that this man
was under the ban of naval law. His term of
service was not complete, and he was liable at
any time to be arrested and punished by a
lengthened service before the mast. This knowledge,
however, Crozier never thought of using.
He argued (wrongly perhaps) that he was no
longer in Her Majesty's service, and that it was
not his business to inform on runaways.

Holdsworth, although coldly silent, was not
sullen. He was too light-hearted, too sanguine,
and too reckless to indulge in a display of temper
lasting for any space of time. His sins of the



past troubled him very little. Of the unfortunate
woman whose existence had been summarily
recalled to his memory that afternoon, he thought
lightly enough. With the self-deception which
comes so easily to men of his stamp, he argued
that she had had herself to blame. She had
drawn him on, exercised her all-powerful wiles
and coquetries for the benefit of such a notably
unfaithful lover as a sailor. Clearly her downfall
was at her own door. With such and similar
sophistries he dismissed the subject. Some day
he would insist on repaying Crozier the money
which he had spent in mistaken philanthropy.
In the meantime he was in love with Elma
Valliant — sweet Elma Valliant — and she — well
she most assuredly cared for him. She was
no longer a mere chit of a girl despite her
youthful ways. Within that slender bodice was
a woman's heart of which the secret was hidden
with all a woman's jealous care. It was whispered
in the country-side that Elma Valliant
had changed lately. She had been in a childish
way a wicked little flirt and coquette, but now
the priest matron could find no fault in her
vol. I. 129 9

conduct. Of course that meant that there was
someone — Someone — written with a capital
letter. It could not be Tom Valliant ; he washer
cousin, and had been brought up with her
as a brother since his father's early death and
his mother's hasty second marriage. There were
a few young men in the neighbourhood, but none
of them good enough for Elm a, none of them to
be compared with himself — William Holds worth.
No, no ; he was undoubtedly that Someone, and
Crozier might go to Davy Jones and take his
moral lectures with him.

"When they reached home the others had been
in some time, and Elma was assisting her mother
to dispense tea. It was about this time that
Walter Varden arrived at the humiliating conclusion
that his personal importance was not
being recognized with the sense of admiration
and respect which w T as its due. He found that
his opinion was rarely asked, and when vouchsafed
it was sometimes ignored. Tom Valliant
and his friend were undoubtedly the honoured
guests. Tom's sallies were laughed at, Crozier's
opinion was asked. Mr. Varden therefore bethought



himself of the expedient of showing
these country people that he was a man about
town, a regular " dog," with a wicked side to
his character. With this end in view he looked
Mephistopheles, and asked Crozier in an audible
aside —

"How was the fair Syra wien you 'last saw
her, eh ? "

An unfortunate silence followed. Mrs. Valliant
pricked her ears, and inwardly thanked a wise
Providence that the butler was not in the
room.

Crozier stirred his tea and looked critically at
Varden from the top of his sleek, mal-formed
head to his o-aitered feet. Then he answered

o

him with deliberation —

I believe she was enjoying her usual rude
health."

Then to Elma's infinite relief, Tom Valliant
came forward with his ready merriment.

Now don't — dort!" he exclaimed, holding
up a warning tea-spoon. " Please draw a veil
over city vices. Syra, as it happens, is only a
young person who attends to the inward requirements



of St. Antony's ; but still, let us draw a
curtain over your wild career. Bern ember,
Yard en, that I am young ; spare this youthful
cheek ; and if you — you dog — have led Sam
away on the downward slope, do not breathe
such darksome hints to me!"

The situation was saved. Crozier created a
masterly diversion with a plate of bread-and-butter,
and Varden wondered vaguely whether
he had made a fool of himself. It was a pity,
however, that Holdsworth happened to be
present.



THE ACADEMY OF CHEERFULNESS.

Trill any enterprising person join with heart
" and hand and purse in setting up an
Academy where the cultivation of cheerfulness
shall receive sole and special care 1 It may be
that those shadows which come with years are
gathering round ; it may be that the eye of the
present writer is dimmed a little by much study,
much sorrow, and much gas-light, but it seems
to me that cheerfulness is leaving us. Are we
a grave generation, or are we oppressed by the
speed at which we travel ? An express train
makes less noise than its slower companions.
Is there much sorrow in a multitude of balls,
routs, soirees, dinners, theatres, and tennis
parties ? Is there additional wisdom and consequently
additional grief in the view of many



faces, the clatter of many tongues ? It would
seem so. A ball-room was in bygone times the
scene of revelry and mirth, now it is dimly
lighted, the floor is more highly polished, the
feet that tread it are no heavier, but they are
more skilful, and the faces are graver. If you
doubt this go to a public ball in London. The
music is louder than the laughter, the feet are
lighter than the hearts. Smiles there are, of
course — are they not the mask of society ? — but
of laughter there is none, except, perhaps, among
the old maids and stout married men around
the walls.

In my Academy of Cheerfulness, however, the
real genuine article shall be cultivated. At the
head of it we will place an elderly unmarried
lady — to be frank, an old maid — who has seen
sorrow and waded in it since her girlhood ;
whose lover was perhaps killed before his
moustache was aught but fluff ; whose brothers
are dead ; who nursed her aged cross-grained
mother when her own vitality revolted against
the enervating warmth of a sick room ; who is
called upon in times of sorrow as the sheep is



called by its lamb when a dog is loose. She
will not be brought into these pages, but I have
her address by my side, and when the capital is
fully subscribed, I will write to her, and with
pleasure, for there is a vague reflection of goodness
in the very sight of her name. For patrons
and directors we will have a middle-aged doctor
who has stood in a hundred sick-rooms by the
bedside where Death was hovering, alone unmoved
amidst the tearful watchers, and the
brave young vicar who has knelt at the other
side of that same bed. To these we will leave
the choice of professors, who must, however, be
mostly gathered from the ranks of the unwed,
and then we will order a brass door-plate.

Had such an institution been in existence
when Tom Valliant was a St. Antony's man it
would have found in him an apt and ready
pupil. Without it, however, he was studying
more or less successfully by himself. I say
more or less, because some people received his
lightness of heart as a gift sent to him from
whence all gifts are despatched, whereas a
few scented as it were the art that made it



sometimes almost artificial. Among these latter
was his cousin Elma, and her suspicion was quite
unformed and indefinite. But it was to her
that he betrayed himself the oftener. It was
with her that his humours changed most frequently,
and it was when talking to her that
he sometimes avoided gravity too obviously.

She wanted to talk to Samuel Crozier about
this matter, and in walking home from church
on Sunday evening the opportunity presented
itself. Tom was in front with his uncle and
aunt, and the Squire's hearty apoplectic laugh
came back to them through the still night air
at intervals. It was probably freezing very
hard, but as the air was quite still, the cold
was not unpleasant, and no one evinced a desire
to walk quickly.

I am sure Tom will send papa into a fit
some day," said Elma, after a little pause, during
which an extra loud laugh had reached their
ears.

Yes ; he is a cheerful soul," answered
Crozier, gravely, for he knew that her humour
just then was grave. The clear bright moonlight



resting softly on the sleeping land was
enough to make her a little pensive and quiet,
especially after the solemn evening service.

"Is he always like that 1 " she asked.

He looked down at her, his deep eyes contracted
and almost searching.

When he remembers," he answered, divining
her thoughts.

She smiled a little, but did not look up, and
they walked on without speaking for a few
moments.

And you," she said, in a lighter tone, " are
you like that too when you are alone with
him ? "

"No," he answered, with a low laugh, "no;
there is a lamentable monotony about me."

She did not smile. Her lips were slightly
parted, and he saw the gleam of her short
white teeth, but they were not parted in mirth.

What a strange friendship ! " she murmured.
What a strange friendship it is ! I think it is
rather interesting."

He set back his head and looked up to the
heavens with the eye of an amateur astronomer.



"It is convenient," he said, " and very
commonplace, I can assure you."

Are you much together ? " she asked.

Oh yes. We see each other every day,
and usually have at least one meal too-ether."

At Syra's ? " she asked, carelessly.

At Myra's," he corrected. " Syra is only
Myra's assistant."

Myra," she said, u is the motherly old lady
who sees that the students do not get into
mischief, is she not ? "

Yes."

And Syra ? " she inquired, peremptorily.

Syra is young and charming," he answered,
lightly. " All the students fall in love with her
in turn."

Is she pretty and . . . and lady-like ? " asked
Elma, drawing her fur boa closer round her throat.

Yes," he answered, in the same careless,
perfunctory way. " Yes, she is both. She is
rather interesting also."

Indeed ! "

By that single word she managed to shelve
the subject most completely, and a sudden



silence came over them. Then he returned to
the question of Tom's cheerfulness.

Why do you ask whether Tom is always
cheerful ? " he inquired.

She looked up towards him. He was looking
straight in front of him, and did not appear
to be aware of her scrutiny. The moon was
nearly full, and its soft light detracted a little
from the habitual sternness of his expression.
The face she saw there was merely that of a
strong, thoughtful man, with perhaps a somewhat
unusual curve of lip and chin, imparting
a pleasant sense of steadfastness.

It sometimes seems to me," she said, frankly,
that it is not quite natural. And yet there
is surely no reason why he should assume it —
there can be nothing on his mind, I mean,
nothing that he wishes to hide from us."

He showed no surprise. In fact when he
answered her his manner clearly betrayed that
such thoughts had passed through his own mind
also. His voice was gentler than usual, with a
suggestion of mutual confidence in it, of which

no '

he was probably unaware.



It ma) r be the effect," he said, " of having
the affair of that book. Concealment
leaves its mark upon men. I know a fellow
who is now a celebrated novelist, but his own
name is quite unknown. When he was youno-
he lived a double life. In his family he was
merely the second son — a Government clerk,
with no great prospect of advancement. Under
his assumed name he was one of the most
prominent literary men of the day. Of course
it was a mistake, an utter mistake ; but he
began with the idea of suppressing his identity
with the promising writer until he was sure
of his success, and then it was difficult to tell
the secret. It is all out now, for it happened
years ago, but there is something unnatural
and almost furtive about him still."

Yes," she answered, softly, " it may be that."
She was not thinking of the novelist whose
thirst for personal fame had never been satisfied.
The argument was ingenious. It might apply
to Tom Valliant, but she thought that it did
not, if indeed she was giving attention to the
argument at all. Probably she was thinking

140 "

of the arguer, a way women have. Perhaps she
was treating the little story merely as a glimpse
of this man's past life — this indifferent idler who
only displayed energy when the effort was wrung
from him — who deliberately chose to waste one
of the greatest gifts vouchsafed to men. And
she wondered indefinitely whether there was a
motive in it all, whether there was some sad story
hidden behind the glance of those grave eyes.
Perhaps she pitied him a little, pitied his loneliness
— that strange loneliness of a man living;
in London chambers — and regretted his apparent
aimlessness. It was only by little glimpses that
he raised the curtain over his past existence,
and Tom knew no more than she did. If
directly questioned, the singer said that he
had no past. He protested that his history
was like the history of a ship's bell — the record
of certain voyages made, certain climates endured,
and certain dangers passed through. To
the bell such details served to lend a fictitious
interest, but the story was not part of its individuality,
failing to affect its tone, neither
increasing nor detracting from its value.



I wish' said Crozier, again returning to the
subject, " that Tom would really give up medicine
decisively and take to art."

"Do you think," she said indifferently, after a
short pause, " that he would really make a name ? "

"He is more likely to do so as an artist than
as a doctor ; but he does not seem inclined to
set his mind steadily upon one thing. He used
not to be like that. It is a recent development
in his character."

"I have noticed it also," said Elma ; "and
yet he is not what might be called superficial,
like that Mr. Varden."

No ; he is not superficial."

"I wonder what it is," she murmured forebodingly.


He glanced down at her, brushed aside his
moustache, thrust his hands into his coat-pockets,
and looked straight in front of him.

I think I know what it is."

"Please tell me," she begged.

Evil influence," he answered.

Ah ! " she exclaimed, as if she had expected
it.



He laughed rather awkwardly.

Xot the influence you mean," he explained
hastily. " It is that of the men he associates
with in town. We are apparently an idle lot ;
we get up late, and we lounge the day away,
but it is not really idleness. The explanation
lies in the fact that we are mostly night-birds
journalists, actors, singers, and writers — our
work begins when most people begin their
leisure. Tom is a day-worker, and it is a bad
thins for him to associate with night-workers.
Do you understand ? When we are playing he
should be at work, and the temptation is very
strong to come and play with us. If he were
to study art he would get into another set.
They may be vain, affected, and shallow, but
the life he will lead among them is a purer,
healthier, more natural life than that he leads
with us. I am speaking physically as well as
morally. From the latter point of view he is
strong enough, but in body he is a little shaky,
I think."

He spoke to her as if she were not a frivolous,
light-hearted girl at all, without apologizing for



his gravity, without attempting to suppress
details, or make light of serious facts. And
strange to say she liked being treated thus ;
she preferred his gravity to the wit of other
men.

"And you think," she said, "that it will be
wise for him to leave St. Antony's if it is only
in order to get away from your influence ? "

He looked at her in a puzzled way, failing to
understand whether the pronoun was intended in
the singular or plural sense.

Yes," he answered nevertheless, " I do."

You think," she continued judicially, " that
this influence is doing him harm ? "

Yes," he answered, wondering.

Then," she said, very gravely, " I think you
are quite wrong. I think you are doing a deliberate
injustice to Tom and . . . and to yourself,
Mr. Crozier. Your influence over him can befor
nothing but good, and you must be purposely
blinding yourself to the fact if you do not recognize
it as I do."

He drew in a deep, unsteady breath through
his parted lips, and she heard it distinctly as



they walked along the sandy road. Then he
laughed suddenly in a deprecating, apologetic
way and said —

"It is very good of you to say so, but I am
afraid you are too charitable. Valliant requires
something very different from my society. Hew
T ants stimulating and encouraging — urging on
instead of holding back. Someone younger and
brighter, more imaginative perhaps, and . . . and
less experienced. "

"In fact' she exclaimed with a merry
laugh, " someone who is not so desperately old
and cynical and sceptical as Samuel Crozier,
Esquire."

That is so' he assented meekly.

They were now very near to Goldheath Court,
and the front-door stood invitingly open, while
a flood of warm light shone out upon the snow-clad
earth and fairy-like trees, where the white
frost nestled and gleamed daintily.

Well," she said, almost coldly, he thought,
"it has been the erroneous custom of us all at
Goldheath to be thankful that Tom had you
near him as a friend and adviser. Perhaps it

vol. i. 145 10

would not be politic to dispel that illusion now —
or to attempt to dispel it."

Then she passed in front of him beneath the
broad hospitable porch, and he followed silently
with a singularly lifeless look in his close-set
eyes.



THE SCHOOL OF MELANCHOLY.

TT does not seem a necessity that melancholy
■*• should follow on the footsteps of solitude.
But the state of loneliness has attendant mental
conditions which might easily be mistaken for
melancholy, or degenerate into it. The great
mental difference between men and women is
merely a matter of .comparative solitude. The
most manly women are only daughters who
have led comparatively lonely lives, slept in a
room by themselves, formed their characters
with their own hands and without the influence
of contemporary girls and women. The most
womanly women (bless them !) are those who
have had many brothers and sisters, who have
known a nursery life, who have shared their



sleeping-room with sister or sisters, who have
always had a recipient at hand for thoughts that
come at night when they are sleepy, and-those
that come in the morning when they are sleepier.
They may not be so clever — these womanly ones ;
so well read, so deeply learned, so weighty in
conversation ; but again I say, " Heaven bless
them ! " And you, my middle-aged brother, if
you have married one of them, look across the
table to where she is at work, lay aside this
book, take that old pipe from your lips, and
mutter a word of thanks for your good fortune.
Eat re nous" it is probably more than you
deserve.

There is more solitude in the lives of most
men than is generally realized, and one of the
most solitary beings on earth is the man who
lives in chambers in London. In the very
centre — at the hub of the wheel of life— he is
alone. He goes to bed at night without saying
even the words " Good-night," because there
is no one to say them to. There may indeed
be a sweet and gentle photograph on the mantelpiece,
but it is not our business to inquire whether



he salutes that or no. In the morning he rises,
and passes from his bed-room to his sitting-room
to start a new day, to take one more step upwards
or downwards, without exchanging a salutation
of any description, without the cheering
sound of a human voice, though it be only
raised to wish a perfunctory good-morning.
Now all this must assuredly leave its mark
upon men. It fosters habitudes of silence and
reserve ; in some cases it leads to brooding and
discontent.

Most men pass some portion of their lives
alone thus, and carry the effect of it on with
them. Many a fine sense of humour has thus
died an unnatural death. We boast, my brethren,
that the sense of humour is ours alone, that our
sisters have it not, and yet in our intercourse
with them are we the amusers or the amused ?

On the Monday following the events just
chronicled, Samuel Crozier returned to London,
and recommenced his solitary life. The clean
pavement of Lime Court knew again his firm
tread. The man who dwelt above him heard
once more that low murmurous voice in the



morning when he was dressing. The piano was
opened again ; and again Mrs. Sanders had to put
up with gentle iron 7 . The good lady had been
suffering: from " indigestion cool," which Crozier
attributed to the fact that his whiskey-decanter
had been locked away for three days.

Tranquilly he returned to his old unsatisfactory
ways. There were many letters awaiting his
attention, and these he answered in a businesslike
manner, shortly and tersely, before dressing
to dine at his club, and go on to the concert-room
where he was to sing afterwards.

He w r as in good voice that night, and as usual
scored a decided success. His reception w r as
such as would have turned the head of a less
self-contained man. He, however, merely bowed
his thanks, and looked with a quiet emotionless
smile upon the sea of upturned faces, before
turning to give his accompanyist the signal to
begin. Then he stood in his square sailor-like
way, and sang his song without affectation,
without emotion ; and, as he called a hansom
afterwards, and drove off to a club with a brother-musician,
he w T as supremely unconscious that the



full soft notes of his splendid voice had found
something to say to more than one heart that
night.

On his late breakfast-table the next morning
were several letters, and as he took the
top one up and threw it aside he suddenly
stopped humming a popular tune — stopped
abruptly in the middle of a bar. The superscription
on the envelope was in a somewhat
large hand, but firm and clear, while the words
showed no tendency to run down hill at the
end.

From Elma ! " he muttered, with unconscious
familiarity. And then he walked to the window
with the letter in his hand, while Mrs.
Sanders' culinary productions grew cold and
tough.

Before he opened the envelope he was humming
again — a hymn this time. Although the
letter occupied three sides of a sheet of paper,
the perusal of it was a matter of a few seconds
only. Then he refolded it, and placing it in the
envelope, stood at the window looking absently
down into Lime Court, where a milkman was



exchanging amorous chaff with a housekeeper's
daughter. Then he unfolded the letter and read
it a second time.

"Dear Sam,

Though a fairer hand than mine guides
this halting pen, its effusions emanate from my
brain alone. Put on your hat, and go round to
St. Antony's, then hurry on to Myra's with the
dread tidings that Thomas Valliant is laid low.
Breathe into the ear of the concerned that he
has broken the small bone of his leg (which is
strictly true), ask them to shed a tear, and to
keep their peckers up, as the poet hath it. The
spirit of emulation was aroused in this breast
yesterday by the superior skating of Mr. Holds-worth,
and these legs getting mixed up there
was a crash and a small crack. The crash was
my head which held, the crack w T as the small
bone as aforesaid which went. It is a neat
enough break, and has just been nicely fixed up
by a local practitioner, who actually knows more
about it than the patient. Ah ! my boy, who
wouldn't have a broken leg? A comfortable



sofa, a roaring fire, an untidy library, and the
sweetest little . . ."

Here the letter broke off suddenly, and below
was written in another handwriting —
Secretary struck work.

"Yours,

"Tom Valliant."

Elma, however, had managed to scribble a
postscript on her own account.

"He has been and is still in horrible pain,
but keeps up his spirits — a little too high, perhaps,
to be quite natural. You know how plucky
he is.— E. V."

Yes," said Crozier aloud, " I know how
plucky he is. It is not so very difficult to be
plucky, however, when one is winning the day."

He folded the letter, and turned to his lonely
breakfast-table. Then he raised the cover of a
dish critically, and sniffed the subtle odour of
grilled kidney.

I know," he added meditatively, being in
afterthought, " how lucky he is also."



Then he sat down and drew the morning
paper towards him, humming an operatic air ashe
poured out the coffee. Towards the end of
a remarkably good meal he suddenly pushed his
cup away and leant back in his deep chair. It
was a favourite attitude of his, this, combining
comfort and the suggestion of another drop of
coffee with his cigarette ; and he usually brushed
aside his moustache with a hasty movement
before stretching out his leg for greater facility
in finding his match-box. He turned his head
sideways and gazed peacefully out of the dirty
window at the chimney-pots of number 5 A, Lime
Court opposite. The result of his meditations
was of a damnatory nature.

Hang Holdsworth ! " he said gently. Then
he lighted his cigarette and threw the extinguished
match over his shoulder on the off
chance of its falling into the fireplace behind
him. As a matter of fact it found a resting-place
in one of his boots airing on the hearth-rug,
but the ways of bachelors are proverbially
reprehensible, and he did not care.

Before he had condescended to explain his


reasons for condemning Holdsworth to an
ignominious death there was a knock at the
door, and a fair grave young man entered the
room.

Ah, Leonard ! " said Crozier, rising ; " glad
to see you."

Dr. Leonard, house-surgeon at St. Antony's
Hospital, came forward with his small white
hand extended.

How are you, Crozier ? " he inquired. Ashe
spoke he gazed into the stalwart singer's face
with rather mournful eyes, full of anxious question.
There was clearly nothing the matter
with Crozier ; he was as strong and robust and
healthy as men are created in these days, but
Wilson Leonard was a young doctor, and a conscientious
man. He was overwhelmed just then
by the gravity of his profession. For him every
man and woman was a possible patient. There
were unsuspected diseases lurking in every limb,
unthought-of germs in every breath. The whole
world was for him a hot-bed of sickness, of
bodily woe. His somewhat sensitive organization
had been seriously affected by the long and



painful training through which he had passed.
He had never grown callous. Like many of us,
he took human woes and human weaknesses too
seriously. At the hospital he was considered an
alarmist, and over-anxious. Not, be it understood,
on his own account, for he never knew
the fear of infection, which, like other cowardice,
is unaccountable and in the blood. I have
known a brave soldier turn pale at the thought
of sea-sickness. I have seen a blockade-runner
run away from a wasp. He had yet to learn
that men fight for life as they never fought for
anything else. He had yet to shake off a
certain suspicion anent the power of his own
knowledge, the weight of his own endeavours,
and the infallibility of his tactics against the
hosts of sickness. This was not a personal
doubt, but a professional realization. Among
other things he had learnt how very little
doctors know ; how very much they have to
guess, and what a great lot they leave to nature.
Doubtless he has gained a greater confidence
by this time, or has acquired the noble art of
looking w T rise when sorely puzzled, which serves



just as well with us others. At all events, he
is high up in the professional tree now, and
his coming into a house is as that of a good
angel or a demi-god, so comforting, so hopeful,
so full of relief is the sound of his footsteps on
the stairs.

"Sit down," said Crozier, "and have a cup
of coffee. It is tepid still"'

Thanks," replied the doctor, absently looking
at his watch.

The singer noticed the action, and smiled ina
barefaced and shameless manner. It was past
ten o'clock.

Here," he said, " take a cigarette, and never
mind the time. I suppose you have been up
hours, curing the diseased, healing the wounded,
comforting the sick. Thank God I am not a
doctor."

Wilson Leonard rarely smiled, but he looked
at the singer with a soft expression about the
eyes which meant the same thing. Then he
passed his bloodless hand up over his high,
broad forehead, where the hair was already very
thin.



I have been at it all night," he said simply,
more or less."

Crozier pushed the cigarette-case towards his
visitor, and looked sympathetic.

I came," continued the young doctor, " to ask
you where Tom Valliant is."

He's in very comfortable quarters," answered
Crozier, looking into his empty cup as if he
expected to find some interesting fish swimming
there.

"Is he ill ? " asked Leonard, with a peculiar
shortness of enunciation. His lips were slightly
apart, and the smoke hovered about his face.
Again he looked too anxious, too much as if it
were his duty to sympathize with all the sorrow
on earth.

Crozier glanced involuntarily towards the
envelope which lay on the table near his hand.
The address was obviously written in a girlish
hand, quite unlike Tom's careless style.

I had a letter from him this morning," the
singer said. " He has broken the small bone
in his leg — nothing much, he says ; but it will
keep him on his back for a few days, I suppose ? "



The doctor detected the interrogation.

That is nothing very serious," he answered.
He will have to be careful for a short time,
that is all."

In matters of surgery Dr. Wilson Leonard was
confident enough, and a daring operator.

"He writes," continued Crozier, "that it has
been seen to and that he is very comfortable."

The doctor rose and drank off his coffee.

I am glad it is only a small break," he said.
"I was afraid when he did not turn up this
morning that there was something wrong."

The singer looked up into the young fellow's
grave face. His deep-set, earnest eyes were
overshadowed.

Something wrong ? " he repeated interrogatively.
" I don't think that Tom will go to
the dogs. He is a trifle wild . . . but . I
suppose we have all been a little that way in
our time. Oh, no ! There is nothing wrong,
Leonard ! "

The doctor had placed his hat upon his head —
rather forward over the eyes, which suited his
grave and refined style — but instead of leaving



the room he went slowly to the fire-place, and
stood there with one foot on the fender, gazing
into the fire.

I dare say," he acquiesced, " that he is right
enough. He goes too much to Myra's," he added
after a momentary pause. " Lives too restless a
life. It is all very well for fellows like you,
Crozier ; thick-limbed fellows with a constitution
like an ostrich, but it is a bad style of existence
for men who are at all shaky. Besides, it's a
stupid, aimless waste of time. Of course they
are clever fellows with whom he associates, but I
do not see that any of them profit much by each
other's society, however pleasant it may be. I
don't want you to think that I am meddling, Sam.
I suppose it is none of my business, beyond the
fact that I am a St. Antony's man. But I don't
want Tom to go wrong. None of us would like
that. He is the best man we have had there in
my time, and the nicest. Everybody is fond of
Tom Valliant."

Crozier had turned his chair round. He was
sitting forward with his hands clasped round one
knee. His features were slightly screwed up ashe



looked towards his companion, doubtless by
reason of the smoke which curled up from the
end of his cigarette into his eyes. He ignored
the personal hits contained in the young doctor's
remarks in a quiet, indolent way. Indeed he
seemed to have been listening carelessly, for he
remembered only one little phrase.

Is Tom shaky ? " he asked, without lowering
his eyes.

Wilson Leonard nodded his head gravely.
Then he raised his right hand and touched the
left side of his waistcoat significantly.

Heart . I believe," he said in a whisper.

There was silence in the room for some time.
The sparrows twittered and chattered in the
lime-tree outside, and over the roofs came the
deep tones of Westminster clock striking eleven.
The doctor moved a little and held out his
hand.

I must go," he said.

Tell me," said Crozier, as he rose and opened
the door for his friend to pass out — " tell me,
Do you think he suspects ? "

I do not know at all. One of the young 'uns

vol. i. 161 11

told me. He found it out when they were
examining each other one day in fun."

Crozier usually practised after breakfast when
he had smoked one cigarette, but he now lighted
another soon after Dr. Leonard had left the
room. He stood upon the hearth-rug facing the
fire and smoked it right through. Even after he
had thrown the end away, he stood there with
his legs set slightly apart and his hands clasped
behind his back, gazing into the fire with a
peculiar concentrated expression upon his dogged
face.

"Poor little woman!" he murmured. "Poor
little woman ! "

Then he went to the piano.



QUICKSAND.

TN the mean time life at Goldheath was very
-*- pleasant. The frost vanished, and for a
week it appeared as if March were to be missed
out of Nature's calendar that year. On the
moors the yellow furze came peeping out among
the brown heather and stiff pine trees. In the
hedgerows green things began to push their way
through the moist soil, and there was on all the
earth a subtle odour of new verdure.

After a short and sharp winter, spring was at
hand. Spring ! Shall I describe it ? No. The
great transformation scene at Goldheath was very
much upon the same lines as in other places. It
is just possible that you have lived through
more of them than I. If you have watched the
process with loving eyes, if you have inhaled



those wonderful scents of growing things and
budding flowers, if you have stood still for even
an hour and tried to enumerate the thousand
petty details, the million wheels within wheels
running smoothly, you know as much about it
as I do. For you a few printed lines could
contain nothing new. If on the other hand you
have learnt from the calendar that spring has
come or will come next week, and have hailed its
advent as a mere period connected with a thinner
overcoat or a new bonnet — if spring tells you
nothing more, I am dumb. Probably you have
skipped two or three pages, and are a long way
ahead of me among the open paragraphs and
conversation farther on.

Tom Yalliant's broken bone progressed famously.
Perhaps spring had something to say to it
something that knit it quickly and drew in the
strained sinews again. After a week he limped
about merrily enough. The doctor's high dogcart
drew up no more before the broad door, and
there was consequently a perceptible diminution
in the daily consumption of sherry, as noted by
Tompkins the butler.



And while Tom limped about by Elma's side
at Goldheath, his good name strode abroad, in all
England and across the seas. Not with halting
gait, but strongly and speedily. In a week the
sale of the new edition of the American singer's
songs gained a firm hold upon the public.
Daily the ex-medical student received envelopes
addressed in Crozier's smooth running handwriting,
of which the form and style never
altered perceptibly from day to day. The man
was steadfast even to his penmanship. These
envelopes contained no letter, but printed matter
only — cuttings from newspapers and periodicals.
Praise, and only praise, tempered of course here
and there by kindly advice. The work was
good, and like all good work it was recognized
by its critics. For good work must come to the
top, and critics are just, let cynics say what they
like. The public has been invited ere now to
inspect a collection of pictures rejected by a
committee of painters and critics, and the result
has invariably been a confirmation of the opinion
given by experts. The public has rejected the
pictures as well. A publisher's ledger will be



found to confirm in a remarkable degree the
literary critic's review.

Not only did Tom Yalliant's venture contain
in itself the elements of success, but its publisher
knew that he had done a good stroke of
business. Moreover (with all due respect to the
profession) he was watched and urged to further
endeavours by a certain singer who had much
spare time upon his hands and an exceptionally
shrewd head upon his shoulders.

So the sale went on apace, and the critics
talked while the object of their surmises and
praise grew graver day by day at Goldheath.
It was rather a remarkable incident, this gravity
that came to Tom Valliant during his convalescence,
for convalescence is in itself a happy
time. Spring is also a happy time, for it is
mostly anticipation, of which all human joy
consisted chiefly. Youth again is assuredly all

brightness. Holding within his arms convalesce
o

hence, springtime, and youth, Tom's face and
manner acquired fresh gravity day by day.
There was no sombreness in his demeanour, no
pensiveness nor outward signs of mental woe ;



but the power of turning everything to laughter
seemed to be no longer at command. With
Mrs. Valliant he was little changed. The
audacity which was really full of tact and never
impertinent, was daringly displayed as of yore.
The careless little attentions and signs of
thoughtfulness never failed to please her cold,
unenthusiastic heart. Perhaps indeed she saw
no difference in this merry nephew, who had
forced his way into her heart by the sheer contradiction
of his ways and fearlessness of his
demeanour in respect to herself. With the old
squire Tom was hearty, and ready enough with
the quick repartee which never failed to make
him chuckle and gurgle, while he held his back
with both hands just where the lumbago struck
him when he remembered it. But with Elma
his manner was different. He chaffed her still
with a certain gleam of enjoyment in his dancing
eyes ; but on several occasions he allowed himself
to be drawn into long and serious discussions
upon abstract topics, such as thoughtful little
maidens love. Life, treated speculatively, as
we can afford to treat it from the threshold ;



the past mentioned with laughter, awakening
recollections ; but the future was never discussed
in this grave spirit. Elma was ready
enough, but Tom became cynical and flippant at
the mention of anything beyond the present.

One day they talked of Samuel Crozier. Tom
started the subject.

I know," he said, " what Sam is doing. He
is worrying that unfortunate publisher into an
untimely grave, in a gently persistent way, with
a sweet smile. He is hammering away at all
the critics and art-journalists —in fact, he is
running the whole concern."

Elma looked up at her cousin over a plate
w T which was fixed upon her easel. She said
nothing just then, but dropped her two hands
upon her paint-stained apron, and looked out
into the walled garden.

I wonder why he does it ? " she said practically
after a pause ; and without waiting for
enlightenment she raised her palette, and began
dobbin" daintily thereon with a brush which
showed signs of having been imperfectly washed
upon several occasions. The paints used by

selma

were of a peculiar nature. They somewhat
resembled honey in so much as they were
frequently to be found in small quantities, inmost
impossible and unexpected quarters.

I don't exactly know," answered Tom reflectively.
He was seated on a low chair
with his leg upon the end of the sofa, and in
such a position that he could watch his cousin
creating most delicate flowers with the dirty
brush. "I don't exactly know; I suppose he
likes it."

That roust be a comforting reflection," said
she, with a short laugh.

"It is, miss, a most comforting reflection.
Because I know perfectly well that if I wanted
to stop him I could not. It seems to be Sam's
mission in life to keep other folks straight, and
ursje them on to better thing's while he meditates

o o

peacefully in the background."

She laughed and continued painting, but there
was little mirth in the sound of her laughter. It
had the effect of making him continue.

Sam," he said, " is the most unselfish man I
have ever met. When I was at work on Miles



Standish he cropped up on every page as the
living illustration of John Alden ; but I didn't
put him in. His style and his manner convey
nothing. You cannot tell from his appearance
what sort of man he is."

I don't know ." said the girl slowly ; "I
think you can — a little."

Ah, but you know him."

She was busy with a very delicate piece of
work, and before replying she touched the plate
lightly once or twice with the end of her brush,
and sat back a little to contemplate the result.

Not so well as you do," she murmured
absently and yet encouragingly, as if the topic
interested her almost as much as her painting.

"No, of course not," was the reply given
with a certain pride of possession. " I suppose
no one knows him so well as I do. If ever I
were tempted to write a book (which the heavens
forbid ! because I cannot compete against the
lady novelist of the day !) I should follow him
about with a note-book and a pencil to take
down everything he said and did. Then I should
work that into shape."



With the view of making him the hero ? "
asked Elma indifferently.

Well . I don't exactly know. He is hardly
the style of hero admired by the reading public of
the day. No ; he would be in the book somewhere.
He would represent a character which the
lady novelist has wiped out. The character of a
man. A man who is neither a fop nor a barber's
block, a humbug, a blackguard, a fool, or a woman
dressed up in coat and unmentionables.' ,

Elma laughed, because Tom had a terse,
cheerful way of saying things which demanded
laughter.

Poor Mr. Crozier," she said ; " he would not
recognize himself, I am sure."

Then other people might. Of course he
would not, though. I do not suppose any of us
would. I firmly believe that Sam looks upon
himself as a lazy, selfish, good-for-nothing
lounger."

He has a certain indolent way of moving
and speaking," said Elma critically, " but that is
only habit. His mind is not indolent. It is a
habit which many people have. Lily Gibb has



it a little, and in reality she gets through as
much work in a clay as I do in a week. I think
all sailors get it."

"Save me," ejaculated Tom fervently, "from
a girl who gets through as much work in a day
as another does in a week. It is not the mission
of girls to get through work."

I wish," sighed Elma, putting back her hair,
which was curling forward very prettily over her
ears, " that I could look at it conscientiously in
that light."

"It is the mission of girls," said Tom solemnly,
to paint flowers and gather them. To make
their little fingers in a mess over both occupations,
and to fill up their spare time by flirting
with their cousins."

Elma laughed and blushed rosily. Ah ! that
habit of blushing prettily and easily at the
wrong time ! When I write of it I must perforce
lay down my pen and look out of the window
upwards towards the clouds. I once knew a
person who blushed like that.

Keeping her face averted, she rose suddenly,
and threw her brushes down pell-mell.



1 was thinking," she said gravely, "of going
for a long, quick walk."

He leant forward and took hold of the extreme
corner of her apron.

No, don't," he pleaded. " I apologize. Hear
me swear ! . . . "

Thanks. I would rather not hear you swear.
If you feel it coming on you must go into
another room."

Sit down, Elma, and go on painting," said
Tom, gravely. "It was a libel — a base libel.
Of course, we all know ."

Now," she said, holding up a warning paintbrush,
" you are going to make matters worse."

I doubt," he said, with a short laugh,
whether they could be worse. What were
we talking; about? Sam. Yes. I am going to
talk about Sam. He is quite safe as a topic, and
a friend in all weathers, at all times, and in every
situation."



Wordsworth MOVES.

IT is a pity that theatrical managers are endowed
with a very small power of recognizing that
which is for their own benefit. This well-known
blindness alone withholds my dramatic pen. A
commercial spirit within this ardent soul points
out the undeniable fact that it would be a waste
of paper and ink, likewise of valuable moments,
to write a really excellent play in face of a probability
that the public would never enjoy it, or
(says the Commercial Spirit) have the opportunity
of paying to sit in a stall and yawn.

Of course, there are other dramatic pens,
excellent quills no doubt, with keen points
chiselled by the stage carpenter and polished
by the property-manager, but they fail in the



depiction of a villain. Now the villain of the
ply is an important person, almost as important,
perhaps, as the violinist, who soothes
our troubled breasts — pianissimo — when the
hero talks to the moon at the open window, or
the heroine bends over her dying father, and
says nice things about her late maternal relative.
The villain is the spice, the salt and flavouring of
stage existence — but he is lamentably unnatural.
The heroine is all right ; she is sweet, and
womanly, and tender. The hero is more or less
real, although he is perhaps more eloquent and
flowery in his love-scenes than us others acting
on the broader stage. But this is perforce a
matter in which men can judge from a purely
personal point of view only, and I am not an
eloquent man myself. The heavy father with a
crime upon his conscience, or otherwise, is passable
; but the stage villain is no more like the
villains of real life than the pantomime policeman
is like the honest constable walking up and
down the pavement below the window with loud-voiced
boots at this moment.

There are not many people around us who


have seen the villain rush away from their
existence at the correct moment, with all his
crimes exposed to public gaze, his love hurled
into the dust, his wretched mask wrenched aside.
No ! In real life he brazen it out — and some
there are who pity him, while others secretly
admire. His constitution is robust, there is no
reason to suppose that he will die young, there
is not even the usual escaped criminal to rush
on and say, " At last . at last," previous to
despatching him on the drawing-room carpet.
On the contrary, he will probably live long
and borrow money.

Again, it often happens that the heroine prefers
the villain to the good young man, who
talks to the moon while the fiddler fiddles. Here
is a case in point. It is true, and so to those
concerned an apology is hereby offered. The play
is not over yet, and the issue is still uncertain,
but I have a sort of lurking suspicion that her
heart is just a little inclined towards him. The
worst of it is that he is a very nice fellow. I
like him. But I am convinced that his part is
that of the villain. He gained her affections



years ago, when she was a mere child, and it
seems that he has them still. He bullies her,
neglects her, and is rude at all times. He must
be the villain, but the fact is not recognized by
the general public and the audience, as it
should be.

Most assuredly there is something wrong about
the stage villain, but as this is not a play, and is
not even written with the view of some one else
dramatizing it without leave and making a lot of
money, there is perhaps no need to lead up any
farther to the statement that William Holdsworth
was not a thorough-paced villain. He did not
possess the requisite backbone, and he was too
susceptible, too soft-hearted, and too easily led.

The advent of his whilom officer at Goldheath
was annoying, to say the least of it, but as he
was just then under the spell of Elma's beauty
and sweet girlish fascination, he was in a jealous
frame of mind. Things had hitherto gone very
well. He saw Elma frequently, she was always
gracious and kind to him ; and, as is the way
with young men, he was fully convinced that she
loved him. He was determined to win her for

vol. i. 177 12

his wife, and, as he knew that sooner or later
Samuel Crozier would (to use his own expression)
run foul of him, he audaciously sought
the danger. As previously observed, he was
courageous enough ; but, although brave, the
move was unwise. He should first have discovered
the degree of intimacy existing between
Crozier and the Valiant. He should have
gained from Elma a further insight into the
character of the man whom he had only known
as a kind officer and patient benefactor. All
these and similar precautions he neglected ; and
moreover he counted too much upon the possibility
of not being recognized. The result was
a failure, and Holdsworth found himself under
the influence of a mind stronger than his own,
a will superior to his. Impertinence quailed
before cool justice. Audacity fell back in face
of courage.

There was nothing for it but the consumption
of humble pie. It was not his fault that he
met Crozier again on the following day. His
guest, Walter Varden, armed with a genial
invitation from the Squire, expressed a desire



to skate on the old canal, and so they walked
over to Goldheath. The unwelcome news that
a girl who certainly did owe her ruin to kern,
although he had almost forgotten the matter,
was under Crozier's protection and existing
upon his charity, came at first as a severe blow ;
but Holdsworth was hardly a scrupulous man,
and not over nice in his susceptibilities. It
was, he argued, a mere piece of Quixotism on
the part of the ex-naval officer, and if the
girl had been left alone she would have found
her own level. It was therefore merely a
matter of levels, upon which, however, folks are
prone to disagree.

There were, he reflected, extenuating circumstances.
The girl, whose parents kept a small
tobacconist's shop in Gibraltar, had come more
than half-way to meet his advances. She had
led him on, and the consequences were at her
own door. These ungallant reflections were,
unfortunately, more or less true. There was
that modicum of veracity in them which can so
easily be enlarged at will. But he did not care
to think very much over this question. It was



an incident in his life which jarred inharmoniously
with this new love unwittingly inspired
by Elm a Valliant, and it suggested an uncomfortable
question as to whether a man can
love two women at the same time. This phenomenon
occurs at times, and in the majority
of cases it is the old love that wins, unless
circumstances favour, to an exceptional degree,
the new. It may be that conscience has some
influence in this matter, but in William Holds-worth's
case this factor was wanting. His
conscience was dead. He preferred not to
inquire too deeply into the question, and in
the meantime he waited patiently until Tom
Valliant should leave Goldheath. After the
accident he kept away from the house, contenting
himself with sending a groom to inquire
after the broken bone every day.

One afternoon, however, he met Elma at
the house of a mutual friend. He had gone
on purpose to meet her, and yet there was no
fixed plan of conduct in his mind. He was
vaguely aware of his own vacillation, and rarely

made plans.



Mr. Varden," said Elma, when she had
shaken hands, " has gone, I suppose ? "

In his quick reckless way Holdsworth saw
an opportunity.

Yes," he answered, " he has gone back to
St. Antony's. They are a strange lot these
medical students. Happy-go-lucky fellows, who
appear to spend all their time in journalistic
haunts and among theatrical people. Varden
gave me some very funny details of their life.
My faith in the medical profession has consequently
become rather shaken. I daresay,
however, that it is not the same in all
hospitals."

Elma was listening in a perfunctory way.
She nodded and smiled to a girl friend at the
other end of the room before taking any notice
of Holds r orth's observations.

I am afraid," she said, at length, in a tone
of marked indifference, "that St. Antony's is
a trifle fast in its style."

Holdsworth stroked his beard shifty. Then
he changed his round.

Xot all of them," he said, reassuringly.


Your cousin, for instance, seems to be quite
untainted. He is a thorough gentleman ."

"Thank you, Willy," she interposed, with a
light laugh.

The irony slid off his back unheeded.

I really mean it," he said. " From what
Varden told me I somehow conceived the idea
that the students associate with a set of men
who do them no good."

He stirred his tea meditatively, and smiled
in sympathy with a general laugh that came
from the main group of visitors around the
tea-table. Then he suddenly turned grave again
and continued.

Actors," he murmured, suggestively, " and
theatrical critics, journalists, and second-rate
musicians."

Elma sipped her tea. There was very little
in her cup, but she eked it out so as to make
it last the longer. She looked straight in front
of her, but in her round innocent eyes there
was a singular expression which was almost that
of expectancy. He glanced towards her and
saw it not, for his eyes were blind with admiration,



and his spirit was puffed up at the
realization of his own astuteness. In sublime
ignorance he blundered on.

o

Of course," he said, didactically, " such associations
cannot be good for young fellows."

For Mr. Varden," she asked, innocently.

No . o, no ; I think Varden is all right,
although none of them can profit by the society
of such men as — as I mentioned."

He glanced at her again. The tone in which
she had spoken puzzled him. But her sweet
face was sympathetically grave, as if thinking
of a possible danger being run by her cousin,
while her child-like eyes were a triumph of
inscrutability. Holdsworth's eyes travelled over
her person, even down to her dainty feet, with
an evil linger of admiration. Had he noticed
her round white throat, he would have seen
that the muscles were moving slowly and restlessly
beneath the milky skin, as if her teeth
were clenched.

Still I suppose these men are clever," she
suggested.

In their way," he allowed, graciously ; " but


they are a terribly idle set. It is a matter
of genius, you understand — genius without
application. And unless a genius is of the first
water he is usually the reverse of an ornament
to society. These men are the scum of the
intellectual world."

She laughed and set aside her cup. Still she
showed to him that he might continue.

I am afraid," she said, " that your description
interests me in them. Do you speak from
personal acquaintance ? "

Oh no ! " he said, cleverly avoiding a tone
of self-satisfaction ; " except indeed that — Mr.
Crozier ; but Walter Varden told me a great
deal about them and their habits of life."

Yes," she murmured, slowly drawing on her
gloves. There was a stir of departure in the
room. In her eyes there was a faint gleam
which almost amounted to triumph.

Have you noticed," whispered Mrs. Gibb
to the hostess at the other side of the room,
"how Emma Valliant has lost her girlishness
lately. Look at her now ; she is a woman at

this moment."



"And a very sweet woman," answered the
kindly old aristocrat. " A very sweet and
charming woman, Mrs. Gibb. I wish I had a
son young enough, and good enough, to try and
win her."

There seems to be some one else," whispered
Mrs. Gibb, glancing at Holdsworth.

"Ah!" replied the old lady, following her
companion's glance. "Who is that sitting
beside her ? Mr. Holdsworth, is it not ? Yes,
Mrs. Gibb, there may be some one else, but it is
not William Holdsworth."

In the meantime Elma had buttoned her
gloves.

It is a pity," Holdsworth was saying to her,
that men like your cousin and Varden, who
have been well educated, and are essentially
gentlemen, should be forced by circumstances to
choose their friends among a class so distinctly
beneath them in the social scale."

I have never heard," said Elma lightly, as
she rose, " of any one being forced to choose a
friend. Surely there can be no choice where
force is brought to bear."



Well, perhaps force is hardly the word.
They are led to do so. Of course people say
that it is Bohemianism, and nothing worse. But
men should not forget that their fathers were
gentlemen, even if they should happen to possess
a knack of writing, a trick of acting, or the gift
of a voice."

He had risen, and was standing before her
with a pleasant smile upon his brown face. His
hands were hanging half-clenched at his side,
and he moved on his feet restlessly. She looked
straight into his eyes with an innocent expression
of attention to his words, and an utter disregard
for the significance of his admiring gaze.

But," she said, " I think there are no
circumstances whatever to justify a man in
forgetting that."

Then they crossed the room together, and
Elma offered to drive Mrs. Gibb home to Gold-heath,
which offer was accepted.

Tom was at the door to meet her when she
reached home. His limp was scarcely perceptible
now. On the following day he purposed
returning to town in order to see his publisher,



and come to some definite decision about the
future.

Well," he said. " How has the muffin-worry
gone off? "

Oh, very well, thanks," replied Elma, who
was a little thoughtful. " All the neighbourhood
was there."

Tom glanced at her sharply as she passed
into the hall before him. It was a chilly
evening, and she went straight to the fire,
which burnt merrily, and threw ruddy gleams
upon the black rafters and panelling of the old
room.

Holdsworth ? " suggested Tom, interrogatively.
He followed her, and stood before the
fire.

Yes. He was there,"

She leant forward and held her gloved hands
nearer to the flame.

My fingers are simply frozen," she said.
Rocket pulled most viciously all the way home,
and I could not let him go because of Mrs. Gibb's
nerves."

Ah ! " exclaimed Tom, with an intonation


which mio;ht have indicated relief. " She drove
home with you."

Yes. I dropped her at the Vicarage.

He knelt down on the black fur mat at her
side, and took one of her hands.

Poor little hands," he said, with burlesque
sympathy. Then he drew off her gloves for her,
slowly and lingeringly.



THE Doctor's MALADY.

rjIHE next evening was one of some importance
-*■ in the musical world, and Samuel Crozier
was heavily engaged. He dined alone at the
Savage Club, and afterwards walked across to
Myra's in order to learn whether Tom Valliant
had returned to Town.

He passed through the outer room, where
Myra herself was attending to the wants of a
few diners, whose tastes or purses did not reach
beyond the succulent products of the grill. Syra
was never very busy between the hours of six
and eight, and Crozier was not surprised on
drawing back the heavy curtain of the Inner
Bar to find but one toper there. This faithful
admirer was not Tom Valliant. It was Wilson
Leonard, the young house-surgeon.


Crozier had heard stories connecting the name
of the grave young doctor with the presiding
goddess of the Inner Bar, but he possessed a
strange faculty of stowing such tales neatly away
in some inner pigeon-hole, where they were forever
hidden from the eye of the curious. It was
long before, when Wilson Leonard was a grave
young student.

He entered the small apartment with a smile,
and a hand raised to his hat. There was no
sign of surprise at finding these two in a somewhat
confidential attitude at the far end of the
room, both leaning upon the marble counter,
beyond the high silver coffee-urn.

Good evening, Syra," said Crozier. " How
are you, Leonard? I came in in the hopes of
finding a Saint Antony's man here. Do you
know if Tom Valliant is back ? "

No, old fellow, I don't," answered the young
doctor. He crossed the room, and leant against
the little iron mantelpiece, so that he was as
far away from Syra as the dimensions of the
apartment would allow.

Then Crozier turned to Syra.


Have you heard anything about him ? " he
asked quietly. He was looking at her rather
more searchingly than he was perhaps aware of,
but she scarcely betrayed a sign of discomfort.
The delicate pink of her cheek altered not in
hue for reasons already hinted at ; her mouth
was slightly to one side, her lips delicate and
ruddy, being pressed upwards with a strained
sense of effort. Only, her eyes told him something.
They gleamed defiance into his, daring
him to think what he chose, to attempt as he
might the perusal of her motives. But the very
glance of defiance was a confession. It betrayed
that Samuel Crozier's opinion of her actions was
a distinct factor in her conduct, that his approval
or disapproval carried weight and influence. And
yet he was nothing to her. He was one of many,
merely a passer-by, who dropped in at odd
moments to meet his friends, and satisfy an
imaginary thirst for the benefit of the establishment.
Nothing perhaps but a strong earnest
man, who had a peculiar and embarrassing way
of treating her as if she might have been a
lady. She knew that he was aware that Wilson



Leonard had not spoken to her for nearly two
years. Those close-set inscrutable eyes could
not hide that knowledge from her, and over the
decanters she dared the singer to think that she
had called the young doctor to come to her.

No," she answered, " he has not been inhere,
Mr. Crozier ; and I have heard nothing of
him."

Crozier struck a match and lighted his
cigarette. He showed no intention of going
just then.

"I suppose," said Leonard, "that you have
dined."

Yes," answered Crozier, waving his match
from side to side in order to save himself the
trouble of blowing it out.

Then have a cup of coffee."

The singer accepted readily. He was well
posted in certain intricacies of the hospitality of
the bar, which is a question of getting in the
first word.

Before their eyes, while they both watched
him, he deliberately poured some cold water
into his coffee which seemed forbiddingly hot.



Leonard contemplated the action gravely. Syra
watched with indifferent eyes. It would be a
nice and far-reaching question to solve whether
either or both guessed that he was spoiling his
coffee with a view of drinking it quickly and
leaving them to themselves.

If he comes in," he said to Syra, " please
tell him that I am singing to-night, and will not
be home before eleven. After that time I shall
be very glad if he will come in and have a pipe."

Yes," answered she, " I will tell him so, with
pleasure."

He nodded to Leonard, raised his hat slightly
to Syra, and with a murmured " good-night"
passed out between the curtains. It was none
of his business, he reflected, if Wilson Leonard
went to the dogs.

He had not walked many yards along the
brilliantly-lighted Strand (wending his even way
assuredly through Virtue and Vice) when a hand
was slipped through his arm, and some one
walked alongside, falling into his pace.

I have soon caught you up," said Wilson

Leonard, quietly.

vol. 1. 193 13

'Yes. One cannot get along very quickly
through this crowd ; it is just theatre time, I
suppose."

Conversation is not easily conducted in the
Strand between seven and eight o'clock in the
evening, when the later journals are in full cry,
when cabs are colliding and their drivers exchanging
civilities, when the "pit" doors are
being cast open to the " two-shilling " public.
The two men walked together in silence because
they could only converse in shouts, and that
which was to be said between them could not
be cried aloud.

Let us get out of this," said Crozier,
presently, and he led the way up a dark and
narrow alley. It was not an aristocratic quarter
through which they passed ; malodorous, dark,
and reeking with hopelessness and vice, it was
at least quiet ; for neither of these are the
children of light and noise.

I have not been in that place for nearly two
years," said the house-surgeon, reflectively.

"No ? " said Crozier, with meek interrogation.
He glanced up at the dark walls of Drury Lane



theatre which they happened to be passing, and
smoked vigorously in view of the approaching
Covent Garden bouquet w T which already assailed
his sense of smell. This indolent singer w T as the
unfortunate victim of confidences. These were
poured upon him from all sides without his
having in the least encouraged the confiders.
It w T as the natural result of his quiet steadfastness.
People with troubles upon them looked
on him as a sort of well wherein to sink their
woes — a well where Truth lay hidden, w T here all
things dropped lay in safe and kindly darkness
until called for.

He knew that Leonard was going to confide
in him. There was no help for it, so he looked
meekly up to the heavens and essayed to inhale
as little bad cabbage and putrid potato as
possible for the sake of his throat,

"I suppose," continued Leonard, w T with an
attempt at cynicism, " that I w T as bound to go
back some time or other."

I'm ! " observed the singer, sympathetically.

When a man is determined to confide in one,
it is next to an impossibility to turn aside the



stream. The same is it when a man has made
up his mind to tell a girl that he loves her. Let
him get her alone for a few minutes, and I defy
her to prevent him telling her, somehow or
other, eloquently or clumsily, gaily or sadly,
even if she wants to.

I suppose," said the doctor, " that you would
call it luck. When I left St. Antony's I was
fully convinced that a month at home among
my people, with my sisters and their friends,
would cure me of what was nothing more thana
boyish fancy. Confound that phrase ! Those
boyish fancies leave a scar, Crozier, if they ever
heal at all. I was done with St. Antony's, done
with London, and the Strand, and that confounded
Myra's. I thought, at least, that I had
seen the last of Myra's. Then came the offer of
a house-surgeonship. Of course I had to accept
it. It was clearly the only thing to do. They
all called it a grand opportunity. The governor
leant across the table and shook hands with me.
The dear old boy is a baronet, you know, and
terribly aristocratic in his ideas. "While I held
his hand, I knew that this grand opportunity



meant — Sj/ra ; that sooner or later I would go
back to that place. You strong-minded fellows
don't understand it, Crozier."

The singer did not answer at once. He threw
away his cigarette half smoked.

Don't say that, Leonard," he said at length.
I think every one understands it a little. It
is a malady which is beyond us all, that is the
long and short of it. The worst of it is that we
cannot help each other much, because each fellow
is best left to make his own muddles. The
muddle till be made, you may be sure of that —
we all do it ; but there is a melancholy satisfaction
in the thought that you went your own way
and had only yourself to blame. At least, I
have found it so."

It seems funny," said Leonard, with a sudden
laugh which came strangely from his grave lips,
"that a fellow who has been brought up with
refined and gifted ladies, who has known and
associated with delicate and attractive girls,
should make an ass of himself by falling in love
with a barmaid — a girl who paints her face and
touches her eyebrows with a black pencil, who



is ready to accept compromising presents from
the first spendthrift simpleton who comes along
and asks for a drink — whose trade it is to flirt
across the bar with every one, old and young,
good and bad, drunk and sober . . .

"That will do," interrupted Crozier in his
softest manner. " You will gain nothing by
abusing her. You forget, Leonard, that I know
Syra as well as you do. What you say is true
enough about her class, no doubt, but it is not
quite true of her ! "

They had crossed Leicester Square and were
now in Piccadilly, where the tide of humanity
flowed in a broader and brighter stream. From
the darker haunts of poverty and vice they had
emerged suddenly into a throng on pleasure
bent, hurrying onward on foot, in cab and in
carriage to theatres, concert-halls, and soirees.
Most of the carriages were moving slowly in a
long, serpentine file westward towards St.
James's Hall.

In this throng conversation became more
difficult. It was broken, and there were perforce
long pauses in which both had time to



think with the acquired absorption of Londoners,
which remains undisturbed by noise and bustle.

Of course'' said Leonard, bitterly, " I cannot
marry her. I am not quite sure that I want
to. It would simply mean ruin to myself and
endless sorrow to my relations. She would be
miserable, and so would I. The world never
makes allowances ."

At this moment they were separated. Crozier
passed through a narrow place and waited for
his companion to come up.

Xo, old man," he said, when Leonard had
retaken his arm ; " the world never makes
allowances. You must never' expect that of it.
I gave up doing so long ago. Time, Leonard,
time is the only thing that can do it, and from
what I have seen of life I am convinced that
there is no sorrow, no disappointment, no bereavement
which is beyond the power of time
to cure."

Oh," replied the other, somewhat impatiently
Crozier was aggravating] y unemotional at times
" oh, I dare say. No doubt it will be all the
same a hundred years hence."



Yes," assented the singer, " probably ; let us
hope so, at least. I should not be surprised,
however, if it were all the same as far as we are
concerned thirty years hence if you take that
line of argument."

They were now in the brilliantly-lighted
entrance-hall of the building where the great
ballad-concert of the year was about to take
place. Brightly-dressed ladies were passing in,
throwing off, with due regard to their hair and
flowers, dainty wraps and shawls. Among them
were their attendant knights, some with Ion 2 hair
and musical aspirations, others with closer-cropped
heads and truer music in their souls. As stated,
it was a musical event, and among the throng
passing through the entrance-hall many recognized
Samuel Crozier, and turned to look at him
again with a whisper to their friends.

In the meantime," Leonard was saying (for
they were apart and the conversation was not

laid aside yet) — " in the meantime it is d d

unpleasant to feel that I cannot get past the
door of Myra's, and to know that when I go in
I will find that girl flirting with the last comer,



and laughing at his double-meaning jokes.
Such men as Marton, the old play-writer, who
always shakes hands with her, and leers across
the counter — a man with a face like a walrus
and a voice like that of an omnibus driver.
Young fops like Varden ."

Look out ! " said Crozier, interrupting him ;
he is just behind you. I will tell you what
you will do to-night, Leonard ; you will come
inside. Here is my card, that will admit you ;
and there are sure to be some seats returned at
the last minute, they will give you one. Don't
you £0 back to Mara's to-night. Next to time
there is no cure like music ! "

He spoke quickly in a low voice, for there
were ears around him listening, and eyes that
sought the face of this young singer. Bright
eyes, some of them beneath lace-shawls, held
aside by bare, rounded arms — eyes that would
not have been sorry to meet his. But he saw
none of them. He was engaged just then in one
of his Quixotic endeavours to throw out of the
path of life a few of those jagged stones which
lie in front of us all — stones which we all try



to throw aside for ever, but they only fall on
the road where another is at work, and he is
sure to pitch them hack again with others that
obstruct his way, and so the merry farce
goes on.

Of course Wilson Leonard obeyed. Most men
obeyed Crozier when he stood before them in
that square, persistent attitude, and spoke in a
low, concentrated tone which was musical enough
by reason of the suppressed force that was in it,
and because Sam's voice was always musical.
The young doctor took the card with a murmur
of thanks and was about to move onwards with
the gay crowd when Walter Varden came up.

This amiable young student had noticed that
the public attention was turned in some degree
towards the two men, and he promptly took
advantage of the situation. Such an opportunity
of displaying his intimacy with a public
character (for in that hall Crozier was as important
a person as the Premier) was not to be lost.
Therefore he swaggered up to them, immaculate
as to shirt-front and button-hole, shiny as to
sleek head, and well-washed as to vacant face.



Ah, Crozier," he said in a cunningly-raised

voice, "how are you? Hallo, Doctor! — good
evening. I have just come from Myra's ; expected
to see some of you chaps there. The fair
Syra is in great form to-night ; but she would
not smoke a cigarette."

The two men looked at him gravely. Crozier
examined critically the single diamond stud
upon his manly breast. There was a want of
heartiness about his reception, but the public
saw that he was on intimate terms. They could
not fail to do that, and there was a pretty girl,
whom he knew slightly, coming up stairs. .

Is Tom back yet ?" he continued. Then he
added roguishly, " Ah, Crozier, the lucky clog
has been in clover all this time — you bet ! — with
that little cousin of his. Nice little thing, with
a figure like an angel, and a pair of eyes ."

He finished up with a short whistle, such as
the conductor of an omnibus employs with a
view of attracting the attention of his driver,
given softly.

Crozier moved a little towards the door. The
overture had been begun. There was a somewhat



unnatural smile hovering about his lips,
but his eyes were dull, as if he were making an
effort to control some emotion.

Wardens' he said gently, " you are a pleasing
mixture of a cad and a fool ; at present the fool
predominates ; that is the best I can say for
you."

Then he joined the stream of pleasure-seekers
with Wilson Leonard at his side.

>£&*-



BURNT FINGERS.

Shortly before eleven o'clock Crozier res
turned to Lime Court. There was a full
moon, and the old houses were actually poetic.
Poetry seems out of place, does it not, in the
heart of London, in sight almost of the lowest
haunts of mankind, within sound of a hundred
harsh voices calling out the attractions of their
evening papers ? And yet poetry lingered in
the old courts and passages of the Temple that
night. A solitary young barrister was walking
some way in front of Crozier, his light footstep
ringing firmly on the pavement of the sleepy
courts and passages. Presently this man let

I himself into one of the dark, narrow windowed
houses, and Crozier was alone,


He walked slowly with his unloved hands
in his pockets, his cigar held firmly between his
teeth. As usual he was humming a tune softly
and reflectively. On entering the precincts of
Lime Court he perceived that there was some one
on his doorstep. This person was not standing
impatiently with his back against the door, but
seated peacefully upon the step smoking a pipe.
Immediately the plaintive note of a cat in
distress broke upon the singer's ears, very
cleverly rendered and dying away softly. The
effect was so life-like amidst the silent passages
where there lingered an echo, that Tom Valliant
repeated the wail before rising from his humble
seat.

Sam," he said, tragically holding out his
hand, " how is it with you ? The situation is
poetic. Young man discovered courting lumbago
on a stone step ; he smokes the pipe of meditation
; there breaks upon the silence of the old
mullions dwellings a soft and murmurous sound.
Is it a ghost 1 No ! Is it the note of the
mghtingcile ? No! Is it the cat? Yes! To

him comes presently a troubadour. His cloak



flies in the wind, his shirt-front gleams in the
cold moonlight. His cigar is tilted rakishly
upwards in the right-hand corner of his mouth ;
his eye roves. The gallery cheers. They
think the troubadour is screwed. Lend me your
latch-key and I will open the door. Thank
you."

When did you come up ? " Crozier asked
presently, when they were in the comfortable
room. He was turning up the gas and he
glanced over his shoulder towards Tom.

This afternoon, my boy," was the answer.
Tom seated himself cheerfully and threw open
his coat. The singer noticed that there was a
small bunch of white violets in his button-hole.
"Yes, sir, this afternoon. I tore myself away
from the delights of a country life and from
. . from my aunt."

Crozier knelt down on the hearth-rus: and
poked the fire leisurely. The far-seeing Mrs.
Sanders had left a small copper-kettle on the
hearth, and this was soon brought into use in
the very smokes part of the fire where five
men out of six would have placed it, and from



whence six women out of seven would have
caused it to be removed at once.

Did you leave them all well ? " he asked
conventionally, without turning his attention
away from the fire.

Valliant pressed the tobacco into his pipe and
blew the ash off his gloved finger before answering.

"Yes, very well — thanks."

Then a short silence came over them. Crozier

busied himself with the simple hospitality of

his bachelor establishment. A tobacco-jar was

placed on the table, and a box of matches.

Subsequently the copper-kettle came into use,

and a sugar-basin was discovered incidentally in

the lower part of the sideboard. This, however,

was not indicative of tea. The odour that

arose presently from steaming glasses was quite

different from that of the subtle herb. It is

painful to have to make this record, as it will

perhaps lead to the downfall of Crozier and

Valliant in the estimation of certain excellent

people into whose hands this book may fall, but

it must be remembered that I have never set up

either as a hero.



When they were both seated the singer lighted
his pipe.

1 saw Varden to-night," he said ; " he was at
St. James's Hall."

Tom turned his head a little towards his
companion, but his eyes were fixed on the
fire.

It was funny' he said, pensively, " that he
should have turned up at Goldheath. When I
saw him I cursed loud and deep in my sleeve.
There was a taste of sulphur in my mouth for
some time afterwards. The fellow is an ass,
Samuel. It is rather aggravating that the only
St. Antony's man that Elma . . . that they . . .
know down there should be Varden."

Crozier looked sympathetic and waited for
him to talk of Holdsworth. This he did almost
at once, for he had been thinking of him since
the mention of his friend's name, for "William
Holdsworth was something more than a cypher
in life at Goldheath.

"That fellow Holdsworth," observed Tom,

"was very kind in sending over almost everyday

to inquire after the health of the deponent."
vol. I. 209 14

Sending ? " repeated Crozier with indifferent
interest.

Yes. He never turned up himself."

Crozier moved slightly, drawing in his legs
and leaning forward as if about to rise. This he
presently did and went to his bed-room, where
he changed his dress-coat for a very shabby
garment of brown velvet. Then he returned to
his seat and smoked pensively. The result of
his cogitations was soon forthcoming.

There are certain biblical stories," he said,
which are of a strictly contemporary nature.
I mean that the incidents related could not very
well happen now-a-days. At all events if they
did take place the result would probably be quite
different."

Tom smiled suddenly. They knew each other
very well, these two, despite the utter disparity
of age, and thought, and nature; and the younger
man was quick-witted enough to follow his
friend's meaning even while he was speaking.

Wisdom," he said solemnly, " is falling
heavily from thy lips. You are quite right,
Sam. It may be that in ancient clays pigs were



housed upon a different principle, but it seems tome
in these times that there is a faint aroma of
the stye about the young man who returned to
his father."

That was all they said about Holdsworth.
They never discussed him more fully than that.
Indeed, it happened that Tom Valliant remained
in ignorance that there was anything else to say.
Crozier was singularly charitable for a man who
had knocked about in the world. He was at
heart a sailor, and sailors are undoubtedly the
most charitable men on earth in a simple,
straightforward, honest way. It may also have
been some memory of dangers passed through
together, of clays spent on sunny seas beneath
a cloudless sky, that prompted this ex-sailor to
conceal his knowledge of William Holclsworth's
history, for when a man claims you as a shipmate
he invokes a very strong spirit of comradeship.
Crozier would have liked to warn
Elma also against this man, subtly and vaguely
as he had warned Tom, but this he could not do.
There was no course open to him beyond leaving
it to her pure maidenly instinct (which is a



wondrous sure guide) to detect the ring of false
metal. He did not know that Holdsworth had
warned her himself by a stupid blunder.

The singer now changed the subject. He
spoke of the concert, and incidentally mentioned
that Wilson Leonard had been there. This led
to the disclosure of a fact of which Crozier had
hitherto been ignorant — namely, that Dr. Leonard's
secret was almost public property at St.
Antony's.

By the way," Tom said, " I was told to-day
that he was back at Myra's. There was something
serious between Leonard and Syra, I believe,
when he was a student. The fellows say that
they were engaged at one time. At all events I
know that he was always there, watching her
every glance and movement. He tried, I believe,
to get her away from the place, but she would
not go governesses, and I suppose it would
hardly have done for the fiancee of Wilson
Leonard, Esq., to have served behind a genteel
counter."

"I am very very sorry for the fellow," said
Crozier. "He is making a muddle of his life."



Well," answered Tom, with a sudden laugh,
I suppose, in the eyes of the disinterested
observer we all do that. It certainly seems as
if he were burning his finders, but that again is
a common practice. We do it in different ways,
that is all. Even I, old man, I, the practical,
the light-hearted, the callous, have been doing* so."

More confidences. Crozier rose suddenly from
his seat and poked the fire. He moved about
the room and took up the evening paper casually,
looking at the advertisement columns with deep
interest. Leonard's tale was bad enough, but
Crozier would have given a great deal, for reasons
of his own, to be spared this.

Yes," he was compelled, however, to murmur.

Tom Valliant sat quite motionless in the deep
arm-chair, waiting until his friend should be
seated or still. His slim white hands were
clasped round his knee. His head was slightly
on one side, and he was very pale — paler perhaps
than usual. His lips, which were thin and sensitive,
were parted slightly, and his heavy eyelids
seemed to weigh wearily over his eyes. It was a
beautiful face, of a delicate and super-refined



mould, but there was strength in it too ; the
patient enduring strength of a woman. Such a
face as that is always a stud', frequently a lesson.
But just at that moment it was not pleasant to
look upon. It was the face of a miserable and
hopeless man.

The singer stood on the hearth rug with his
elbow resting on the mantelpiece. He held the
evening paper in his hand and was still studying
the advertisements. The contrast between these
two men reached even into the tiny subtle differences
of carriage and attitude. Valliant sat
with his fingers interlocked around his knee ; the
attitude was a favourite one with him. Crozier
stood, and moreover he stood squarely and independently.
The arm resting on the mantelpiece
was not supporting his weight. He never
clasped his hands or interlocked his fingers. His
limbs (if the expression be comprehensible) never
supported each other. Do you see the difference ?
If not, it must be the fault of this halting pen.
It exists ; it is in glaring evidence around us
every day, but we go on — go on wilfully and
deliberately — ignoring the resemblance that most



assuredly will be found between a man's mind
and his limbs. In either attitude lay the story
of an existence.

There was a singular stillness in the room fora
few seconds, then Tom Valliant spoke.

When," he said reflectively, " a man is shut
up for a fortnight in a country-house with a girl
whom he has been trying to avoid for the last
three years, the chances are rather in favour of
burnt fingers."

The singer was reading the paper no longer.
He had not moved, but his eyes were looking
over the journal, presumably into the folds of
the heavy red curtains.

'• You talk," he said at length, in measured
tones, " as if there were points of resemblance
between your case and Leonard's. I do not see
those points."

He stopped for a second and brushed aside his
moustache with a quick movement of the fingers.

Some day you will," said Tom, in that
moment, but in such a low voice that it seemed
probable that Crozier did not hear.

"Of course," continued Crozier, tranquilly,


you may call it burning your fingers if you
like, but it is only a pleasant fable. Leonard
cannot possibly marry Syra, it would only lead
to endless misery, and a few months of unhappiness
is better than a lifetime : you could
marry in six months if you chose to work.
Leonard has good prospects, but they would be
ruined by marriage with a barmaid, whereas your
work would be assisted, if anything, by your
marrying and settling down. His people would
cast him off, yours would be delighted at the
idea. ."

Suddenly Tom interrupted him with a merry
laugh.

You are the greatest architect I know," he
exclaimed. " Your castles are a triumph of
artistic excellence — but, my friend, the building
material is only found in Spain. It has just
struck twelve, I must seek my humble dwelling ;
Craven Street looks well at midnight."

He rose and put on his top-coat with a great
display of energy. Crozier smiled, without however
losing the thread of his discourse.

Personally speaking " . he hazarded deprecatingly,


but lie got no further. He moved
away from trie mantelpiece towards the window
and drew aside the heavy curtain, looking searching!
y into the night for some seconds. There
was no visible motive in this action, for it was a
clear moonlight night, and there was no question
of rain. He did not even look upwards to the
sky, but across to the dark houses opposite. He
turned and allowed the curtain to fall back into
its place, crossing the room in a vague peculiar way.

Personally speaking," he began again, as if
with a slight effort, " you are the only man I
know who is good enough — for her."

Thank you, Sam," said Valliant simply. He
was ready to go, with his hat set jauntily upon
the back of his head. He moved towards the
door, followed by his companion.

I don't see how you can imagine that there
is an obstacle," said Crozier, almost argumentatively,
dien they w r ere in the passage.

Tom turned on the doorstep and shook hands.

Some day you will see it," he said ambiguously.
Then he ran lightly down the steps, and
walked away into the shadow without looking back.



A CREATURE OF IMPULSE.

THERE are certain definitions of human
character which have acquired in use a
meaning never conveyed by the words spoken.
To be called a creature of impulse is to-day a.
compliment. This, perhaps, arises from the
melancholy fact that impulse as a human incentive
is dying away from amongst us. We are
becoming so wise, so prudent, so self suppressing,
that we rarely act, either for good or evil, without
thinking twice upon the matter.

Now Impulse, like Prudence, is a double-faced
hussy. Once she goads us towards good, and
we, hesitating, leave that good undone. The
next moment she will urge us towards evil, and
again we draw back. This sounds like a doctrine



of counterbalance, but it is nut such. Impulsive
goodness is superior to slow beneficence.
Bis dot qui city chat. While impulsive evil is
less loathsome than wrought-out, thought-out
wickedness.

When it is stated that William Holdsworth
was a creature of impulse, it is therefore conveyed
additionally that he possessed redeeming
virtues.

The influence exercised over him by the mere
presence of El ma Valliant was not a good one.
Her beauty made him jealous that other men
should have eyes to see it also. Her sweet and
cheerful individuality did not soothe his spirit.
The effect of it was to cause wild schemes of
winning her to flit through his brain — unscrupulous
schemes, most of them, smacking of the
convenient sophistry of the sea-lawyer. The
impulse given to his soul was that of evil, and
being open to the movements of mental impulse,
he succumbed readily enough.

Once he sought to poison her mind — gratuitously
and with no definite aim — against the man
to whose Quixotic beneficence he owed more



than he cared to think about. Indirectly he
endeavoured to lower Tom Valliant's position
in her estimation by careless hints of misdoings
in London, and — grossest error of all — he never
lost an opportunity of blowing his own trumpet.

Women are most wonderfully tolerant of
vanity, conceit, and bumptiousness in young
men, much more so than their brothers ; but
their love (at least if they be true women) has
never been won by virtues of which the happy
possessor has been the first to make mention.
In other words, a woman never loves the man
we love. Most of us manage to convey, sooner
or later, to her whose love we seek the picture of
a wonderful individuality which we modestly
take to be our own. But — if we win — it is not
that individuality which she loves ; it is another
which she constructs for herself. This latter
creation is probably as far from the reality as
our own, but if she elects to blind herself into
the belief that we are the incarnation of an
impossible human being, it is wiser to refrain
from too close inquiry, or enlightenment.

Elma never loved William Holdsworth. The


thought of it never entered her head. She considered
him very pleasant to talk to, for he had
a thousand little tales of adventure to tell, such
as women love to hear. Of these he was with
suspicious variety the hero, and with clue
modesty he related them. He had pleasant,
hearty ways with him, and he was neat and
clever with his hands as most sailors are. Perhaps
she flirted with him, just a little, in an
innocent childish way which was beyond his
comprehension. There was that glamour of an
evil past in his favour, and it rendered him
interesting in the sight of this inexperienced and
imaginative girl. Truly the ways of innocence
are strange. To-day Elma is no longer a girl,
she is no longer a young woman even. She has
passed through sorrow and great joy. She has
smiled in the sun, and she has wept in the
shadow. She has known many men and women,
and their characters have been patent to her
understanding. Yes, she is most certainly an
experienced woman of the world, but that sweet
fascinating innocence has never left her. It is

like pure snow, which makes the shadows that



lie upon it look beautiful. Nothing will ever
sully the purity of her mind. I do not think
she will ever believe in the existence of evil pure
and simple. With her it is nothing worse than
negative good.

William Holdsworth was a constant surprise
to her. Little virtues and pleasant accomplishments
were for ever turning up at odd moments.
]n a semi-interested way she made a sort of
study of him — such studies as young men make
of maidens, and thoughtful maidens make of men
studies made in a purely contemplative spirit ;
mere observations on the ways of human nature.
We all study at that school, but we never learn
to keep away from the fire ; to keep a firm hold
upon our contemplative hearts.

Elma Valliant was far from expecting an
immediate result to her investigations, but this
came a few weeks after Tom had returned to
town. As usual, luck was against Holdsworth,
but for once he did not recognize the fact. Luck
in this case consisted of a dimly-lighted conservatory,
where a soft pink glow lay on the
delicate flowers ; where the atmosphere was

919.9

heavy with the melancholy odour of refined
white blossoms such as stephanotis, tuberose, and
lilies of the valley. There was music also in a
distant room, the voice of a violin in the cunning
hands of a poetic Italian, who made the instrument
wail out the waltz-tune softly. Everything
was against Holdsworth — dead against
him. And El ma was at his side, just a little
breathless, the flowers on her dress a little
crushed, and the lace rising and falling rapidly.
The moment was propitious for the study of
human nature, and Elma saw it in a new
phase.

Holdsworth was glancing at her sideways.
They were quite alone in the conservatory. The
path of virtue lay before him bright and smooth
just then.

Elma," he said softly, " do you remember
years ago when the canal was full there were
boats upon it ? "

Yes," she answered, wondering, "I remember."


And once we had a large picnic in two
boats above Scar Lock."



Oh yes, I remember, and you had a fight
with a little boy."

Holdsworth wondered uncomfortably whether
she recollected that the boy was considerably
smaller than himself.

Yes' he said, " I was going to remind you
of that fight. Do you know that the quarrel
originated with you. I wanted to be in the
same boat as you. It is long ago, Elma. We
were quite little then, but the boy who wanted
to be near you is of the same mind still."

He stopped and laid his hand upon her wrist.
Elma experienced a sudden sense of chilliness allover.
There was an obstruction in her throat,
and she prayed inwardly that something might
happen suddenly — as it does in books — to prevent
him saying more. But nothing did happen.
The music went on, and there was a vibration in
the floor as of people dancing. In a dark corner
of the conservatory the monotonous drip — drip —
of a tap imperfectly turned made itself heard.
Holdsworth had taken her hand within his
fingers now.

I know," he said, " that I have done little


good in the world. I have had a hard fight to
keep straight, for luck has been against me from
the very first. Every one has given a helping
push to the man who seemed destined to go
down-hill. The one thing that saved me, the
one thought that encouraged me was the remembrance
of that little girl — the little queen of my
boyhood. Through hardship and danger, through
hope and despair, I have thought of that little
girl and wondered whether she remembered the
boy who fought for a place at her side. When
at last I saw the old country again, the golden
heath and the placid old canal, the only question
I asked myself was, £ How will Elma greet me ? '"

He was very earnest, but in the impulse of
the moment he was reeling off lies most imprudently.
Elma also was of an impulsive nature,
but, strange to say, she was quite calm and
self-possessed now. She made no attempt to
release her hand from his grasp. She felt his
other hand at her dainty waist, but she left it
unmolested. His very earnestness should have
carried her away ; the thrilling tones of his deep
voice so near to her ear should assuredly have

vol. I. 225 15

touched a maidens heart. But it must be remembered
that Elma was no longer a girl in her
teens. No one, it is true, had ever spoken to
her in such tones as these before ; no one had
held her hand in such a grip as this, but there
are some situations in life in which instinct is
infallible while experience is useless. A young,
heart whole girl would have succumbed to the
man's power of wooing. Elma found herself
criticizing the sincerity of his words. To some
people the quick knowledge of wise action, which
is vaguely called presence of mind, only comes
when the danger is actually upon them. For
some time back Elma had, in her more thoughtful
moments, contemplated the bare possibility of
this avowal, but Holdsworth's manner had deceived
her ; his lightness of heart had instilled a
false confidence. And now that the moment
had come she was equal to the emergency. She
was actually thinking how she should word that
which she had to say to him.

Suddenly she rose ; but he remained seated.
She stood in front of him and looked down at
his stalwart form. Strange to say his eyes were



averted instead of seeking hers. Again he
reminded her of Samuel Crozier. No two men
could have been less like each other in nature or
face, but there was some subtle point of resemblance
in the manner in which they held themselves
— a suggestion of past discipline through
which both alike had passed.

Willy," she said, gravely, " when I heard
that you had come back I was very glad indeed,
because I thought that it would lead to the
renewal of an old friendship. If you say anymore
you will shatter that friendship utterly,
and nothing can ever patch it together again."

"I suppose," he said, almost humbly, "that
you look upon me as a hopeless ne'er-do-well,
an idler and a vagabond — a sort of person in
fact whom no lady in her senses would ever
think of loving."

This appeal was clever. It had paid well
upon former occasions. He rose and stood
beside her with real and earnest dejection
depicted on his handsome face.

No," she answered, " I suppose nothing of
the sort. It has never entered my head to passa



mental judgment upon you or your doings. If
any of us had thought what you suppose, we
would not have been insincere enough to assume
a friendliness we did not feel. If," she continued
with sudden contrition, " if I am to blame in
this . if, I mean, I have led you into any
mistake I am very, very sorry."

He shrugged his shoulders in a deprecating
way, as if to imply that his own feelings were
of secondary importance, and yet to insinuate
that he had received no light blow. The movement
betrayed a certain knowledge of women
and their ways, for nothing appeals so strongly
to the female heart as its own sympathy drawn
nolens volens " towards a strong man who
rather avoids than seeks it. By that slight
shrug William Holds worth placed himself in
this position with regard to El ma. He was
thus the victim of a flirt — a simple straightforward
man deceived and ruined in happiness
by a pair of coquettish eyes. And moreover he
fully believed it himself, for it is a part of some
characters, especially those that possess weakness
and strength strangely mixed, to deceive themselves



with even greater success than they
deceive others.

I suppose," he said in a dreamy way without
looking at her ; " I suppose there is some one else."

This cool supposition put forward in a vaguely
meditative way, not untinged with a hopeless
despair, was calculated to leave Elma in rather
an awkward position. It was distinctly a question,
and yet she could not take it as such and
tell him tragically that he had no business to
ask it. If she treated it with silence the inference
would be that the supposition was correct,
and I have already said that no man had
hitherto spoken to Elma Valliant of love treated
personally. Farther than that it is neither wise,
courteous, nor instructive to peer into her heart.
Of course you may infer. We may all infer, in
our great astuteness. And what wealth of inference
may be drawn from the fact that this
dainty little maiden was out of her teens, and
that she had moved in both country and town
circles, looking upon men with those dangerously
innocent eyes of hers, without having heard a
word of love ! Of course we all clamour that



the reason of it is that she did not want to, and
that she had managed very well to slip out of
dangerous positions. But why did she not want
to ? Here I must leave you, being out of my
depth, and a poor swimmer in troubled waters.

She looked down at her companion without
a blush.

"I do not see," she said, " what that has todo
with the question."

He was very much in love with her in his
way, and he could not quite persuade himself
that she did not love him. This latter is a way
we have in our masculine modesty. We cannot
f ally realize that the young person whom we
honour with our youthful affections can do otherwise
than love us most consumedly. It would
only redound to her infinite credit and good
taste. This happy blindness, however, lasts no
length of time, and I am told that when a man
does win the love of a woman — the great, glorious,
unreserved love — his first feeling is one of fear.
He is thereafter divided between a sense of his
own utter un worthiness and a vagaie uncomfortable
feeling that he has got more than



lie quite bargained for, or knows what to do
with.

Holdsworth was, however, untroubled by an'
such misgivings as these. He was still in the
first happy period of conscious irresistibility,
because perhaps he had never won the love of
any good woman. And although it would appear
that Elma did not love him yet, he was fully
and pleasantly convinced that it was only the
matter of a little more time. Had he looked up
into her face just then he would assuredly have
thought twice over this conviction, or had he
taken the trouble to study a photograph of Elma
which was gradually fading in his mother's album
he might never have said the words that came
naturally to his lips. There is a pleasant and
harmless little theory (doubtless leading — as most
theories do — to nothing) that photographs are
more natural than they are usually considered.
If a man shows you a likeness of himself, and
the face delineated is that of a weak and vapid
person, custom and politeness bid you abuse the
sun and the artist. It is not the face you are
accustomed to see. But it is just possible that



you have never seen the real face — only a mask ;
because masks are worn as successfully to hide
weakness as to conceal strength. The photograph
may cause you to think about your friend ; may
awaken suspicions or arouse questions ; and if it
does, the result will be a verdict in favour of the
sun. Thus, fierce people who smile sweetly upon
the world will unconsciously assume a ferocity of
demeanour before the camera ; and people who
possess a dainty little square chin, like Elma
Valliant, will poke it forward, and impart a
sense of determination to their features which
the softest of eyes cannot counteract.

But Holdsworth had not studied the faded
photograph (which, by the way, had been condemned
as a bad likeness), and was in total
ignorance of that little square chin, which was
at this moment singularly noticeable.

"Well," he muttered doggedly, "I believe
you love me, and I simply won't take no. I
shall go on hoping, Elma, as long as I live."

Ah ! human nature ! Yes, human nature, for
women are no better than men ! There is nothing
to choose between us. One would almost imagine



that Holds worth did not know that a week's
absence would make him forget all about Elma
Valliant — that he was ignorant of the dormant
feeling towards the girl whom Crozier had rescued
from his clutches — a feeling which held his
vacillating heart as nothing else had held it,
and which for want of a comparative name must
perforce be called love — love as understood by
William Holdsworth . . . and the rest of us.

I will never," said Elma, with dangerous
calmness, " be bullied or frightened into loving
you. Surely you know me well enough to
recognize that."

She turned half away from him, and moved
towards the door, but before she had taken two
steps his arms were round her, crushing her
painfully. With sudden passion he kissed her
twice on the lips, and strange to say she made
no resistance. Then he released her with equal
abruptness. She stood for a moment, while he
looked down at her, breathing hard ; then she
raised her gloved hand, and pressed back over
her ear a tiny wisp of golden hair that had
escaped and curled forward to her smooth cheek.



When at last she spoke, there was in the tone of
her voice a withering contempt, a cool fearless
despise, infinitely more cruel than the hottest
indignation.

You do not know," she said, " what love is."
And without another word she left him, walking
away quietly and without haste. In the
drawing-room she found her father standing with
his hands behind him watching the dancers with
his genial hearty smile, and slipping her hand
within his arm she stood beside him.

kc&s\j?r



INTRUDERS.

WITH inexplicable dilatoriness Tom Valliant
wasted his time at Saint Antony's. Some
weeks had elapsed since the publication of the
book so successfully illustrated by him, and its
career was assured. A second edition upon
superior paper with a view to doing better justice
to the engravings was already in hand, and offers
of work, and well-paid work, were showered upon
him. Artists of standing* began to ask each other
whose pupil this new man was, where he had
acquired his art, and from whence he came, but
publishers asked no questions, they wanted to
secure his pencil, and not his past. These clear-sighted
readers of the public taste knew better
than to cavil at a man's work because it was
the emanation of genius, untaught callow genius,



instead of straightened talent. Some of them
even went so far as to oppose Samuel Crozier's
advice, boldly telling Valliant to shun all art
schools. I have an immense respect for the
astuteness and foresight of the average publisher,
and it would almost seem from a study of facts
that these Philistines were right, and the thoughtful
singer wrong. The kingdom is plentifully
stocked with art schools. No small town is
complete without an establishment of this description,
duly connected with the head-centre
in London. No doubt the popular taste, the
artistic feeling of the multitude, is raised by their
agency, but do these schools produce artists ?
It would appear not. Frenchmen come across —
unwashed, untaught, merry Frenchmen, if you
please — who have never looked upon a plaster
cast in their lives with the intention of drawing
it, and they illustrate our newspapers as we cannot
illustrate them ourselves ! Italians — long-haired,
melancholy Italians — come and hang upon
the walls of our exhibition-rooms pictures painted
with a delicacy and truth which make our best
wielders of the brush feel humble. Hard smoking



Germans sit down in our engraving shops,
and bend over the Frenchman's drawing with
a result infinitely creditable. And the worst of
it is that these men are totally without artistic
training. Some of them, indeed many of them,
have actually never been taught at all. The
age is essentially artificial, but are we not making
a mistake when we take it for granted that art
can be taught ? From the statistics of art
schools as regards their production of artists it
w T ould seem that education hUh instead of fostering
this delicate growth.

Tom Valliant did not deign to explain whether
he was guided in this matter by his would-be
publishers or his natural laziness ; but he treated
all suggestions of study in a hopelessly jocose
spirit, which entirely killed any argument upon
the subject.

'ein much study," he would say in a tone of
which the solemnity led many to believe that
they had been crushed by a Biblical quotation —
"is also great vanity! I am not vain, but as
long as people are willing to buy I am willing to
draw T things as I see them."



He undertook to illustrate a story to be
brought out shortly in a magazine ; began slowly 7 ,
and suddenly became interested in it, finishing
in a few weeks in such a manner as to make the
publisher come forward at once with a handsome
bid for the monopoly of his pencil, which,
however, he refused.

Withal his name was still upon the books of
St. Antony's Hospital, and he attended lectures,
and put in an appearance in the dissecting-room
in a desultory way. When questioned he laughed
carelessly, and talked vaguely of going on to
the end of the term, when he would see what
turned up. In his attendance at Myra's, however,
he was very regular, much more so than
Sam Crozier liked ; but, like a wise man, the
singer made no comment — indeed he did not
appear to notice it.

It seems to me," Syra said to him one
evening, in her neat, clipping way, " that you
are an adept at letting things slide."

Valliant had just left them, accompanied by
some rather uproarious friends, bent upon
visiting a transpontine music-hall of doubtful



reputation, merely, he explained, with a view of
studying human nature in a new phase.

There was no mistaking her meaning, and
Crozier did not pretend to. He smiled slowly
in answer to the thinly-hidden bitterness of her
tone, and looked at her with a quizzical tolerance.

But there was no answering smile in her
peculiarly lifeless eyes, and the sad lips were
firmly closed.

"I can't see why you do it," she added,
impatiently.

He was smoking a cigar, which he removed
from his lips before leaning his elbow resignedly
upon the marble counter.

Parables ! " he said with mock humility,
" parables which this thick head cannot
elucidate. "

Why did you let him go to that place
to-night \ " she asked, as she turned aside and
washed some glasses noisily. It almost seemed
as if the matter had a greater interest for her
than she cared to show. Crozier did not always
understand Syra ; she interested him greatly,
and he studied her at times with a kindly and



tolerant keenness. He frequently forgot that
she was only a barmaid — a creature whom you
and I, gentle reader, would not expect to possess
any human interest at all, any feelings worthy
of our virtuous consideration, any thought above
vapid flirtation across the counter. Steeped in
vice she must of course have been to the tips of
her pink fingers, her calling vouched for that ; a
living decoy, her trade and profession was to
entrap the unwary, to lure innocent and confiding
young men to their destruction, and to
sell her smiles with the liquor she handed across
the counter, to the highest bidder and the
deepest drinker.

It was a strange friendship, and one, we all
know, infinitely discreditable to any one pretending,
as Crozier sometimes did, to the title
of gentleman. 1 will not attempt to defend
him. He himself would not have done so,
labouring as he did under the reprehensible
notion that so long as his motives were clear
and honourable to himself the rest of the world
was at perfect liberty to look on, criticize, and
find fault, just so much and so long as it pleased.



I

And in this matter Tom Valliant's welfare was a
strong and visible motive.

They quarrelled in a semi-serious, semi-mocking
way, these two strange beings, and
moreover they loved quarrelling with each other
and no one else in the world. Through the veil
of mockery there peeped occasionally something
more serious. At times there was a second
meaning behind the " staccato" abruptness of
the girl or the man's tolerant cynicism, and
these tiny shafts of truth were never lost. Thus
they had learnt to know each other very well,
better perhaps than each in turn suspected.

Samuel Crozier and Tom Valliant were, as
Syra had once said, different from the rest of
the frequenters of the little bar beyond the thick
curtain. This difference may have been a mere
creation of the girl's fancy (for even a barmaid
may possess imagination, poor soul !), but it is
certain that they occupied a different place in her
mind. The one with his grave good-breeding,
his suggested cynicism, and his quiet way of
telling home-truths ; and the other with his
everlasting good spirits, his assumed chaff, and

vol. I. 241 16

his sndlmo; mask were different in her imagination
in so much as they were credited with
meaning. The rest had no meaning — they were
merely happy, thoughtless boys, or improvident,
reckless men. Some instinct told the girl that
there was a purpose in these two friends — a
purpose and another life of which " Myra's " and
their present day-today existence formed no part.
They belonged to a different world altogether.
From a hundred little incidents, a hundred passing
'gestures, momentary silences and veiled
glances she drew with the unerring insight of
her sex her own deductions. Though others
had not noticed it, the remembrance w T as patent
to her that never since they had first set eyes
upon each other had Samuel Crozier, in mere
reckless fun, or with that peculiar disguised
earnestness of his, addressed to her a word that
might have been turned into an expression of
love or admiration. On the other hand, Tom
Valliant was always doing so, but in such a
manner, with such lightness of heart and such
merry smiles, that there was nothing either offensive
or sincere to be understood or seized upon.



In this lay a greater part of the difference.
Crozier might inexplicably treat her at times as
if she might have been a lady ; Valliant might
bring her flowers and cast comically languishing
glances over the decanters ; but Syra looked
through these outward manners and saw that
she was but a passing incident in their lives.
She saw, however, more than that. Depraved,
lost, fallen as she might have been (though we
may reserve an opinion on this subject — we men
who in our wider travels have come upon virtue
in rocky places), she was a woman still, and a
woman in something more than the baser instincts
that prompted her to bring out the
daintiness of her cheeks by a touch of rouge,
to make the most of a perfect figure, and to
wield such arms as she possessed without quarter
or reserve. She looked through the veil which,
although worn so differently, was of the same
texture, and what her lifeless, hopeless eyes saw
there was the shadow of another woman, and
illogically, without just cause or reason, she had
taken the thought into her head that the shadow
on both lives was cast by one form.



By way of reply Crozier shrugged his shoulders.
Presently, however, he vouchsafed an
explanation.

I allowed him to go, Syra, because I could
not stop him."

Indeed. Because you could not stop him.
Not because you are one of the people who
habitually let things slide ; who, rather than
find yourself involved in an argument, shut
your ears placidly to lies and let misery grow up
all around you ? "

The singer rose from his seat and took up his
argumentative post before the fireplace leisurely,
with his back against the corner of the iron
mantelpiece.

No," he answered, " no. As you have done
me the honour of asking the question, I reply
unhesitatingly that it is not because I shut my
ears and let things slide. Moreover, misery is a
growth which is quite natural, and I am informed
even necessary, to the existing state of things.
I am not interested in its cultivation at all."

He allowed her some time to reply, but she
continued drying and placing upon the counter



in an inverted position certain small tumblers,
without showing any wish to continue the
conversation in this channel.

I don't think, Syra," he murmured gravely,
and with some meaning, " that my eyes are not
more often closed than those of other people."

She raised her expressionless orbs to meet
his and closed her lips with a defiant twist to
one side. She was not afraid of him, and showed
it boldly. Before speaking she shook out the
damp glass-towel and laid it on the coffee-urn
to dry, all with a curving of rounded arms and
curling of pink fingers which was second nature
to her now.

The atmosphere you breathe and the life
you live," she said, with mocking demureness,
are hardly calculated to make you go about the
world with your eyes shut."

He looked up to the ceiling as if inhaling the
atmosphere of the room.

Xo," he said innocently, and with a weight
of meaning.

Oh," she said lightly, " I speak for myself as

well."



Which," he suggested with a twinkle in his
deep-set eyes, " places me in good company."

I doubt it," she said bitterly, and turned
away.

Presently he crossed the little room and took
his seat on a high mahogany stool near the
counter. For some time he smoked slowly,
examining the quality of his cigar between
each puff.

Syra," he observed reflectively at length,
Rome was not built in a day."

The girl was at the far end of the counter, idly
glancing at the columns of a newspaper.

So I have been told," she replied, without
looking up. " But," she added after a moment,
I doubt whether it would ever have been built
at all if . . ."

She broke off with a short, mirthless laugh
and turned the newspaper impatiently, afterwards
placing both her elbows upon the counter and
bending low over it.

I was going to be rude," she explained,
abruptly.

Crozier was looking at her in a speculative


manner, his deep-sunken eyes very grave and
sympathetic.

Syra," lie said, with quiet masterfulness,
the better I know you, the less I understand
you . . ."

Oh, for goodness' sake," she interrupted, "do
not let us discuss me ! You once told me that
it was bad taste, and worse than unprofitable to
discuss oneself or one's feelings with, anybody
whomsoever."

So I did," he allowed, with memory as
unerring as hers ; "I had no intention of
bringing forward the topic . . . you mention,
beyond insinuating in the most respectful manner
possible that it has either been my individual
misfortune to do or say something which has
displeased you, or some event has occurred to
worry you. If it is the former . . ." He stopped,
and taking the cigar from his lips, threw it
neatly into the fire. Then he slid off his stool
and went to the other end of the bar, where he
stood before her with his two hands resting on
the counter. "If," he repeated, "it is the
former, without knowing any details, I have no



hesitation in saying that the slight, or the offence,
was unintentional. "

She moved nervously and laid her hand upon
the paper without, however, looking up. His
tone had quite changed, and the alteration
afforded her a glimpse of the other man — the
man of drawing-rooms, the well-bred gentleman
whose place was certainly not beside that marble
counter. It was a rare glimpse, and no one but
Samuel Crozier afforded it. She would rather
have remained in the darkness of her station —
rather have listened to his easy cynicism than
the softer tones which fell so musically from
those trained lips — rather have laughed cheerlessly
than have been oppressed by a nauseating
lump in her throat, which reminded her uncomfortably
of the days when she could weep.

"You are not perhaps aware," she said, while
continuing to study the advertisement columns
closely, "that people are talking about you."

He raised his eyebrows indifferently.

What a calamity ! " he murmured, with great
serenity. " May I inquire what ' people ' are
pleased to say ? "



"It is the cannon talk of Saint Antony's that
Mr. Valliant is going to . . ."

Let us say the ' dogs,' " suggested Crozier,
seeing her hesitation.

Yes, the dogs, although that is not quite
the expression. And your name is frequently
brought in."

As showing him the way ? " asked Crozier.

She nodded her head, but made no further
reply. He tugged at his moustache pensively —
an action very rare with him.

That is the sort of thing," he was reflecting,
that Varden will be only too delighted to tell
Holdsworth, and Holds worth will be only too
delighted to pass it on."

Nevertheless he smiled at Syra's grave face.

"That cannot be helped," he said. reassuringly.
All will be put right in time. He is going to
leave Saint Antony's at the end of the term.
Once away from there it will be an easy matter
to drop its associations and form more profitable
friendships."

She saw the semi-grave meaning of the last

words, but chose to ignore it.



He does not care a bit about any of these
men," she said, decisively. " He associates with
them, but they cannot be called his friends."

"You have noticed that too, have you?"
said the singer, selecting a second cigar. " I
bow to the correctness of your judgment. He
will probably go down into the country and
stay with his people. There he will come
under a new influence, and a fresh incentive to

The words were spoken with inimitable unconsciousness.
His careless attitude as he chose
a cigar and closed the case, preparatory to returning
it to his pocket, was that of a man
who was not giving his whole mind to the
subject of which he was talking. The choice
of a tobacco-leaf was at that moment of paramount
importance. But Syra's dull eyes were
not taking him in as a whole. She disregarded
utterly his attitude ; and the measured indifference
of his voice carried no conviction to her
ears. Her entire attention was given to his
lips. During the course of their disjointed,
half veiled friendship she had discovered this



weak point in his worldly armour, and the
habit had grown upon her of watching the
singer's thoughts, not through his impenetrable
eyes, not in his strong manly way of facing
joys and sorrows squarely and perhaps too un-impressionable
for a young man ; but through
the motion or the stillness of his trained lips,
for it must not be forgotten that he was a
professional singer.

I am sure," she said, " I hope it will bethe
case."

It is bound to be so," he answered, reassuringly,
but very gravely. Then his manner
suddenly changed, and at the same moment
Syra moved restlessly, and had Crozier looked
up he would have seen a dull patch of red
beneath her eves which was not there a moment
before. Both had heard a voice in the outer
bar wishing Myra a good-evening in unusually
quiet and sympathetic tones.

Come, Syra," said Crozier, a little hurriedly,
this will never do ; we are getting quite
serious. The future, and especially the future
of some one else, is not worth getting serious



over. We two should know that by this time.
I must be off. Good-nio;ht ! "

He raised his hat, drew back the curtain, and
confronted Wilson Leonard, whose arm was
actually stretched out towards the heavy folds.

Crozier nodded, as if the young doctor were
a regular habitue, and betrayed no surprise
whatever as he passed on.

Hallo, Leonard," he said, genially ; " how
are you ! I'm just off to the club to see the
Paris papers. Good-night, old fellow ! "

}&&#•



sea's secret.

fTIHERE is a sad want of economy in everyday
-*- life. It is like a very large book with a small
plot and few incidents. We take a long time
to do very little ; in fact, to use a technical
expression, there is too much padding. The
real incidents, the real crises, and the actual
successes and failures are of short duration.
They usually come and go in a few minutes
with their attendant emotions. The pleasure
of a great success is after all a passing joy. A
man succeeds, and lo ! in a few weeks he is
accustomed to success — it thrills him no longer
its joy is dead. He longed for success : it
has come, and yet he is the same man. He
gets up in the morning, eats, works, and sleeps



again, as lie did before. Eating is no greater
pleasure, sleep is no more restful, work is no
less monotonous.

Hope and regret are alone long lived. These
two are the padding of our lives, the fine writing
in the novel which goes on and on, from page
to page, with a few incidents thrown in here
and there to break the paragraphs. Hope is all
sweetness, and regret is bitter sweetness. In
excess they clog the taste, just as too much
fine writing wearies the reader.

To suit the hurried days in which we live
the novelette has been invented. I wish that
we might have the power vouchsafed to us
of reducing the weary volumes of our daily
existence. Why can we not live lifeless !
Reduce volume one by beginning at the end
of it : id est, at the end of childhood. Scurry
through volume two and reach the beginning;
of number three. All the incidents could be
detailed in a few pages. I could reduce thirty
years to five, and get into that space all the joys
and sorrows, the hopes and aspirations, the successes
and the failures, the laughter and the



tears. No neglect of necessary detail would
result, no scamped work. In that time the joys
would be thoroughly enjoyed ; the sorrows
treasured with a certain melancholy pride ; the
hopes disappointed ; the aspirations crumbled to
the ground ; the successes realized, and the
failures recognized. And all in a business-like,
shipshape manner worthy of a most practical
and estimable generation.

Poor, dear, slow old Nature is getting sadly
behindhand. Her system of managing human
affairs is effete. She must either work in more
incident or reduce her detail. We have too
much getting up and washing and drying, and
eating and drinking, and going to bed again.
When our family bibles credited us with seventeen
years we were twenty-five, and instead of
making up her lost time Nature gets more and
more behindhand as life goes on.

Most assuredly Syra thought such thoughts as
these when Wilson Leonard left the little room
which was called hers, only half-an-hour after he
had drawn aside the curtain to find himself face
to face with Samuel Crozier. Undoubtedly



some reflex of them passed through the young
doctors anxious brain as he hustled his way
through the crowded humanity of midnight
Strand. Half-an-hour — thirty minutes out of
all the millions — but thirty containing more
than three thousand. That half-hour left them
both older ; both wiser, the preacher will say ;
both better . . . tvlio will say ? Not I, for one.

When Crozier left the inner bar Syra turned
a pale set face towards the new-comer. Why
had Wilson Leonard taken to frequenting Myra's
again ?

And so they looked at each other for a brief
moment over the decanters, across the daintily
arranged counter. Dull lifeless eyes looking into
eyes that were too sympathetic, too kindly for
their possessor's happiness in a world where
human sympathy is a hindrance.

Outside, in Myra's bar, there was the everlasting
sound of frizzling chops, spluttering kidneys,
and seething steaks. One or two male voices
were raised in merry altercation, and there was a
laugh — a single throaty laugh — occurring with
weary regularity at short intervals. Crozier, had



he heard it, would have said with quiet humour
that the laugher was supping at somebody else's
expense. Years afterwards Leonard heard that
laugh again in a room full of gaily-dressed people,
and it brought back to his nostrils the sickening
odours of cooking meat, damp sawdust, tobacco-smoke,
and beer. Before his eyes it raised a
picture of gaudy bottles rising in tiers to the
ceiling, and before them, amidst them, the most
beautiful face he had ever known. It recalled
the dull eyes, where life and a great hopeless
misery were struggling for mastery over an
indomitable will ; and into his heart it poured
a sudden flood of wretchedness which overwhelmed
all other feeling, quenched all resistance,
and made him for a moment no better than a
dead man.

Leonard raised his hat in silent salutation.
His lips indeed did move, but no words came
from them. The girl bowed her head slightly
and busied herself with some glasses. The
silence was becoming irksome.

What can I give you ? " she asked, in a
business-like tone.

vol. i. 257 17

He looked round almost stupidly, and stooped
to examine a brilliant label on a whiskey-bottle,
in a singularly interested manner.

Oh . . . I'll have some coffee, please."

She handed the cup in a careless, nonchalant
way, which was not calculated to forward Myra's
commercial interests.

You have grown very abstemious," she said
lightly.

Yes," he answered, stirring his harmless
beverage leisurely. " I have to be more careful
now-a-days. I need all my steadiness and all
my nerve. They are my stock-in-trade."

Her eyes, resting on him, were almost endowed
with life, but she soon turned away and went to
the end of the counter, where she sat down
wearily.

I once told you," he began in a critical way,
years ago, when I was a student, that a couple
of years of this work would kill you."

"It is three years since you told me

that."

Yes ? " he murmured interrogatively. " Three

years ago, is it ? "



And here I am still. I am not to be killed
by work it seems."

She spoke in a hard discouraging voice, as if
the subject were utterly distasteful ; as if no
possible end could be served by discussing it.

As I came along just now," said Dr. Leonard,
looking into her eyes for the first time since he
had come in, "I was wondering why you stayed
here."

Ten shillings a week," she answered promptly,
and all found ! "

It was a splendid farce, but her flippancy was
not successful. She could not even laugh at it
herself. It fell very flat, and there was utter
misery in the air.

I asked you once before," continued Leonard,
ignoring her explanation, " if you would let
me find you some other work — something easier
and quieter ; and something less ." he hesitated
for a word.

Degrading . . . ? " she suggested.

Yes," he said, looking at her gently — " degrading."


Beneath his gaze the poor girl turned away.


He came nearer to her, so that only the breadth of
the marble counter was between them. Standing
there with his arms resting on the clear space
before him where no decanters were, he looked
down at her where she sat on an inverted mineral-water
case. Her face was averted, her hands were
clasped together. She was almost crouching at
his feet — crouching gracefully in her close-fitting
black dress, with the beautiful golden head bent
and turned from his sorrowful eyes.

It seemed that at last he had conquered — that
at last his stubborn manliness had triumphed over
her power of will.

You have had many opportunities that I
know of for bettering your position. Many
better . . . places have been offered you. You
know you are far too good and . . . and lovely for
this sort of thing, and yet you stay. It cannot
be from love of the work — that is impossible.
You do not pretend to be devotedly attached to
Myra. Why do you stay % "

She moved restlessly, drawing in one neatly-shod
foot and dropping her arms to her
side.



Ten shillings a week," she repeated, " and all
found."

Syra," he said gravely — the habit of calling
her Syra was still with him — " Syra. For
heaven's sake don't copy Tom Valliant. Don't
throw away your life as if you had many to
spare. It is the only one you have. Is this ? "
he indicated the bar, the bottles, the smoke-begrimed
room — " is this your idea of life. Do,
for goodness' sake, think what you are doing."

Suddenly she rose and glanced at the clock, in
obvious hopes that the theatre-goers would soon
be coming in.

Oh ! " she answered, with an impatient sigh,
I am thinking what I am doing. I have thought
about it so much that I am sick and weary of the
whole business."

She turned her back upon him and dusted the
bottles with a worn feather duster.

Then leave this place."

Then she threw away the duster and turned
upon him sharply, resting her two hands upon
the counter.

Why ? " she asked, with flushed cheeks and


eyes that glowed for once. " Why do you take
it upon yourself to dictate to me ? "

Because I love you," he answered simply.
"You know that. I told you three years ago, and
it is the same now as if I had told you everyday
since. Every man has a right to try and do
something for the woman he loves. Is that not
so, Syra ? "

Still she resisted, and in reply to his question
merely shrugged her shoulders.

Then he took her hand, pink from constant
contact with warm water and damp towels, moist
from beer-drippings.

Is that not so, Syra ? " he repeated.

She made no attempt to draw her hand away,
but looked at it dreamily, as if comparing its
pinkness with his white slim fingers. No answer
to his question came, and presently he continued
—

If you will not tell me why you deliberately
throw away every chance, why you stay here
against the advice of everybody who takes any
interest in you — Crozier, Myra, myself — everyone
— I must simply draw my own conclusions.



You stay, Syra, to be near some one ! Who
is it?"

She raised her head and looked at him. Her
lips were pressed upwards and sideways with
that pathetic twist ; there was defiance in her
eyes.

You ! " she answered, coolly.

For a moment he ceased to breathe, and when
at last he spoke there was a break in his voice
like a sob.

Oh ! " he exclaimed, in a low, unsteady tone,
what a muddle we have made of it 1 "

"No," she answered, "we have not. You
have made a mistake — a terrible mistake — incoming
back, that is all."

He slowly withdrew his fingers from round
hers, and moved away a few steps, where he sat
wearily down upon one of the high mahogany
stools near the counter. He leant his elbow on
the marble, and pushing his hat on to the back
of his head, sat holding his forehead in silence
for some moments.

"Why?" he asked. "Why have I made a
mistake ? "



She looked at him for some moments without
real) T ing. Had he raised his eyes then he would
have seen the quivering tears in hers. He would
have seen the beautiful face transformed to something
still more beautiful — purer, holier, loftier;
lightened by a glow, the pure and glorious illumination
of a great unselfish love. A dog can
]ove like this, can we — dare you — deny it to a
barmaid ? How pitifully small is the basis upon
which turns the axis of a human existence ! Had
Leonard raised his eyes he could not have withstood
the magnetism of her glance ; he would have
asserted his manhood, the rights of his devotion.
His greater passion would have conquered her
noble resistance, and a splendid surgeon would
have been lost to suffering humanity. As it was
he only heard her words, spoken in a coldly
modulated monotone.

Ci Surely you must know," she said, " that I
could never marry you. I have seen too much
of this . . . degrading . • . existence to be able
ever to settle clown into humdrum married
life. T am too fond of admiration, too much
accustomed to it, to live without it until — well,



until there is nothing left to admire. I should
he miserable in a year, and so would you. It is
only in books that such things come right.
Misery and nothing but misery could ever come
of it, and you know it."

He shook his head without looking up, but it
was a wavering denial. He knew it, but what
could he do ?

"Could things be worse ?" he asked hopelessly.

"Yes, I think so," she replied more softly.
"I am sure of it. This . . . this wretchedness
cannot so on loner In a few years it will be all
right. Something may happen — something must
happen. If we married we should find out the
utter folly of it in a year, and think of what we
should have to face then."

Like the proverbial postscript to a woman's
letter, the true thought, the inward secret
motive of her heart came last. She must have
been very sure of her power over herself andover
the man before her, or she would not have
dared to speak the words.

"Besides," she added, as she moved a little
and pretended to be attending to her duties —



besides, you must think of your own family.
You must think of your career. It would be
ruined. The great absorbing desire of your life
would be entirely frustrated if you married
a . . . a . . ."

Syra," interrupted Dr. Leonard, "for God's
sake, don't be so hard upon yourself ! "

"It is best to look things in the face," she
answered, in a dull voice. Then she broke into
a sudden laugh which was terrible to hear, it
was so utterly devoid of mirth, so hopelessly
miserable.

In ten years," she continued recklessly, " we
will laugh at all this."

He winced at the sound of her voice, it was so
cruelly harsh. Perhaps he realized for a moment
what a terrible struggle was going on behind that
lauodi, but he never knew the full extent of
it. He could not. It was an impossibility for
him to realize what this girl was sacrificing for
his sake. She was right — of course she was
right — in the principle. They would not have
been happy together ; but who is ? AYho is
entirely happy when the glamour fades away ?

2G6

And it is currently supposed that a few years'
rejoicing in that glamour are worth the risk of
what may follow. Soit — so be it ! Let us shrug
our shoulders and go on our way. We must live
and understand it not, grieve and comprehend it
not, rejoice and lose the joy. Our lives must be
lived in a state of semi-blindness, of wishing to
see more, to understand a little more the point
of it all.

Syra's had been a joyless life. Beauty had
been given her, for what ? A great temptation —
nothing; more. Intellect of a certain keen order
had been vouchsafed to her, to the furtherance
of what end ? That she might have thoughts
above her station, that she might dream of better
things and realize that they were beyond her
reach, that she might raise herself from the lower
rungs to the glorious position of barmaid in a
Bohemian drinking den. Think of this, my
sisters ; think of what she was throwing away —
and tell me why she was born.

"Tell me, Syra," said the young doctor
presently, " has it always been . . . me ? "

"Yes," she answered simply, "always."


He rose from his seat and went nearer to her.
His soft mournful eyes met hers over the arrayed
glasses and decanters.

Then you must marry me," he said stubbornly,
and we will go away and try our luck in some
other country."

"No," she answered gently; "no, I will never
do that. I have heard the students talking of
you, and Mr. Crozier has told me what others say
of you. You have a splendid career before you — u
follow it, and . . . for heaven's sake doit t come
here ! "

But he merely shook his head.

No," he answered, " I cannot agree to that ;
I must come until you give in or go away. You
don't know what torture it is to me, Syra, to
think that you are here, a prisoner from morning
till night, a slave who has to smile upon the first
comer and do his bidding. It ought not to have
Lasted so long as this, but I never knew . . .
You hid it from me too well. I thought it was
Tom Valliant."

No," she murmured.

Or Crozier," almost suspiciously.


She ceased her occupation of arranging some
small coffee-cups and saucers upon a shelf behind
the counter, stopped abruptly, and left the task
half done.

Oh no," she said slowly, reflecting gravely ;
I admire him very much. He is a better man
than he himself is aware of, which is very rare.
It was better, perhaps, that you should have
thought that I cared for him, because
because it has made you what you are. I think
w r e are all the better for having met and come
under the influence, however slight, of Sam
Crozier."

She finished with a shadowy, pathetic smile,
as if half ashamed at the vehemence of her own
words, and at "the same moment there was a
sound of mingled voices in the outer bar, accompanied
by approaching footsteps.

Here they come," she whispered.

I am sure," he said hurriedly, lingering a
moment, "that it will all come right in the
end."

But there was no assurance in his voice, no
gleam of hope in his eyes.



Why should it ? " she asked bitterly. " There
is no reason why things should come right. It
is so much easier for them to go wrorjg."

And he turned away from her, passing out of
the little room, sick at heart, with her hopeless
tones still ringing in his ears.

END OF VOL. I.

3 0112 041770055

^s-

LI B Rally

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

r

.1

f

,1'

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/phantomfuture02merr

VOL. II.

PHANTOM FUTURE

BY

HENRY SETON Merrimac

AUTHOR OF "young Misled "

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

'^Utbltsljcrs in ©rbiitrtrij to %zt Htctjcstu fiji Qncctt

\ All rights rgserr'ctT]

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

CHAP.

I. FORTUNE SMILES
II. A SHADOW FORECAST

III. DIPLOMACY

IV. THE PLOT
V, FLOWERS .

VI. DANGER .

VIL THE RECKONING UP

VIII. FOREWARNED

IX. FOR THE ship's SAKE

X. IMPULSE .

XI. THE BUSHEL RAISED

Nil THE FIRE

XIII. THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW .

XIV. "BE YE THEREFORE VERY COURAGEOUS
XV. GOLDHEATH AGAIN

XVI. SAM EXPLAINS

































CHAPTER I.

FORTUNE SMILES.

A FEW mornings later, Crozier was placidly
-^ disposing of a very fair breakfast with the
help of a newspaper propped up against the
coffee-pot, when Tom Valliant appeared. The
medical student placed his hat gravely upon the
head of a bronze statuette which stood upon the
mantelpiece, and then sat down on a chair which
he brought to the table.

Good morning, Samuel," he said. Then he
raised the covers of one or two dishes with quaint
anxiety. "The cupboard is bare," he remarked,
regretfully.

VOL. IL 1 18

"Yes; I have cleared things off a little; but
of course you have had your breakfast. "

That is so' answered Yalliant, as he drew
the coffee-pot towards him ; " but nevertheless
. . . " — he raised the lid and sniffed the steam
that rose — " I will drink your second cup for you,
just to demonstrate that our diplomatic relationship
is perfectly friendly."

Will you have it in an egg-cup or the slop-basin
? " asked Crozier, gravely.

"Slop-basin, please. Holds more," replied
Valliant. He was searching busily in the breast-pocket
of his coat, and presently he produced
a card.

Mrs. Abergeldie Gibb," he read aloud, with
much unction, " at home Tuesday, February the
twenty-first, from eight to twelve. Dancing.
E. S. V. P. Samuel Crozier, Esquire."

He laid the card aside, made a little bow,
accompanied by a courteous gesture of the hand,
and added in a congratulatory tone —

There you are, my boy ! What do you think
of that."

Crozier took up the card, and examined it

critically, while his companion stirred his coffee
with a table-spoon.

Are you going ? " he askecl.

*' That," answered Valliant, "is precisely what
I don't know. There are many questions in that
one — wheels within wheels, as it were ; notes
of interrogation inside notes of interrogation, till
the perspective is lost in a haze. Sugar, please !
First of all, are thou going ? Secondly, is it worth
the long journey ? Thirdly, think of the dissipation
of the thing. Eight to twelve ; twelve
o'clock ! Midnight ! Can we stand it. Are
our constitutions equal to it ? Toast, please ! "

*' Mine is. Have some butter ! "

Crozier rose from his seat and consulted a
small diary which lay upon the writing-table.
As he turned the pages he happened to glance
round, and found Valliant's eyes fixed upon him
with a certain questioning eagerness. There was
no trace of a smile upon his face now.

"Yes," the singer continued, after a short
search, " I am free on Tuesday the twenty-first.
I vote we go. What do you say ? "

Oh yes," answered Tom, carelessly, while he


buttered a piece of toast. " Oh yes, we mayas
well go. I don't think I should have gone
alone. I am not such an enthusiastic dancer
as you, but as you are free, let us go by all
means."

Crozier closed the book and returned to his
seat. He looked indifferent, and somewhat
dense ; not at all the sort of person to be reflecting
that Tom Valliant sometimes overacted his
part — a little.

By the way," he said, with sudden energy,
I have some startling news — so startling that
I could hardly eat any breakfast."

Tom Valliant again looked under the covers
with some anxiety, and a weight of significance.

"Let us have it," he remarked pleasantly.
I am strong — tell me everything."

The singer selected a blue envelope from
among his letters, which lay, methodically folded
and replaced within their covers, upon the
breakfast-table.

I have had a singularly friendly letter," he
said, sarcastically, " from a firm of solicitors
whose name I have never heard of, to tell me



that my mother's brother has been removed — no
I beg your pardon, has passed away. They
call him my dear uncle, but I have always
understood that he was rather a disagreeable old
gentleman. However, I am of a different opinion
now — this letter has opened my eyes to his true
worth. He has not only left me a quantity of
family plate, but certain moneys duly invested
as per schedule, yielding an annual income of . . .
where is it ? . of two thousand one hundred
and seven pounds, ten shillings and fourpence."

Valliant whistled softly.

'•' What an uncle," he murmured sadly ; " what
an uncle for a fellow to have ! Shake hands,
Sam, shake hands ! It shall never be said that
Thomas Valliant forsook an old friend because
he was in altered circumstances — never ! "

The singer shook hands gravely, and returned
to the perusal of the blue letter.

One sugar-basin," he read aloud, " one cream-jug,
twelve large forks, twelve small forks, six
table-spoons, twelve tea-spoons, and a soup-ladle."


Valliant nodded his head at each item, as if


to impress them upon his memory, and when his
companion folded the letter with an air of extreme
satisfaction, which was very cynical and
somewhat ungrateful, he looked grave.

"Well then," he said, "you are lost. The
coming season will see you drawn into a vortex
of well-dressed vice and fashionable wickedness —
vide lady-novelists who write from the seclusion
of Camberwell, where they study their subject
over a penny Society paper. Scheming mothers
will quarrel over you, and in the privacy of the
ladies' cloak-room will say to their daughters,
Now if that man Samuel Crozier is here — the
man with the fuzzy moustache and the baritone
voice— fcT him. I know for certain that he has,
besides what he makes by singing, two thousand
one hundred and seven pounds, ten shillings and
fourpence ; twelve sugar-basins, six cream-jugs,
and a soup-ladle.' "

But how do you know ? " asked the singer,
with a smile, "that scheming mothers have not
known my brilliant prospects all along ? How
do you know that I have not been ' fixed,' as you
gracefully put it, hundreds of times ? "



Tom looked across the table at him with
momentary gravity.

Then it is not a surprise ? " he asked.

Not quite," was the answer ; " I always knew
there was a chance of it."

What a funny fellow you are ! " observed
Valliant musingly, after a short pause, during
which he had lighted his pipe. " And you
never told me — I might have borrowed no end
of money from you. If it were not that I am
myself rolling in the golden rewards of honest
toil, I should feel inclined to do so now'*

'^ It is very good of you to say so,^' replied
Crozier, pleasantly, as he turned over the proof
pages of a new song which an enterprising publisher
proposed (upon a financial basis) that he
should sing in public, and allow the fact to be
mentioned on the cover. After studying the
score for some minutes he rose and tried the
air over with the piano, singing in an undertone
while Valliant smoked and watched him.

I suppose," said the latter shortly, " that
you will give up this sort of thing ? "

Crozier swung round on the music-stool.

''"What! — singing? Not I. Nothing will make
me give that up."

Well then," urged Yalliant, earnestly, " you
will have to take a house, and marry one of those
eager-looking musical eccentricities who always
wear spectacles and a pencil, go to oratorios
and heavy concerts with a bundle of musical
scores under their arms, and — if report be true
never fail to turn up when Samuel Crozier is
going to sing."

The object of this graceful flattery ignored the
pleasing suggestion. He had turned his back
upon his companion, and was playing the air
of his new song, softly.

No," he said, " I thought of buying a yacht
a yawl, I think. I might take the family
plate to sea and throw it overboard in a gale
of wind by way of lightening the vessel and
removing the responsibility of that soup-ladle
from my bachelor shoulders."

There is something in that," rejoined Yalliant
gravely. " Honestly speaking, Sam, I don't like
that family plate — it is not natural, and it will
inevitably lead you into ill-considered matrimony.



In my vivid imagination I see you already whispering
into the ear of some fair and well-seasoned
enslaver : ' If the devotion of a lifetime, in
addition to one cream-jug, one sugar-basin,
twelve large forks and twelve small ditties,
can do aught towards a woman's happiness —
Araminta, they are yours ; and there is also a
soup-ladle ! ' The soup-ladle would probably
settle the matter."

I think I would sooner sink the plate in the
yawl," said Crozier, with that pleasant smile of
his, which somehow never waxed into a laugh.

Had Syra, or some other comparatively speaking
(for most of us look inwards instead of
abroad) observant person been in the room then,
or indeed at any other time when these two men
where together, it is possible that she would have
felt a peculiar tension in the atmosphere. Old
friends as they were, devoted friends and upright
men, their position towards each other was
not honest. They were not at their ease, and
each showed it unconsciously in the way and
manner that belonged to his character. Tom
Valliant with a gaiety and lightness of heart



which were the outcome more of habit than of
nature. At times it was utterly false, devoid of
humour, and to an acute listener terribly sad.
Nature had in her bounty given him a light
heart and a cheery courage — which is human
sunshine ; but one felt that this everlasting
** badinage," this subtle fear of gravity, had
some meaning, and the meaning could only be
that Fate had chosen to spoil Nature's good
Avork. The light heart was fighting beneath an
overwhelming weight.

And Crozier ! The singer was never intended
for a humorist. He was formed of good and
solid material such as can be shaped into a
brave man, intellectual enough for most purposes,
genial enough to become a favourite and
a true friend, and strong, self-reliant, purposeful,
sufficiently to win the love of a good woman,
and never let her regret her choice during all
her life. His quizzical cynicism, which had no
real bitterness in it, was the fruit of circumstances
; under it he hid such softer qualities
and virtues as are best concealed from a preying
and covetous world.



It was therefore somewhat pathetic to see him
(labouring under the disadvantage of his greater
thoughtfulness) endeavour to keep pace with his
friend's lighter vein.

As a rule they where excellent companions.
They had many topics in common, many mutual
interests, and all could be discussed openly and
freely, with one exception. The mention of
Goldheath brought about that strange tension
which was felt by both, though each concealed
the feeling as well as lay in his power. There
are some things, I am convinced, which are
better left unexplained. We talk of the
ravelled web of human life which is one day
to be disentangled, we whisper of mysteries
which will be cleared up in the Hereafter ; but
for my own part, I sincerely hope that everything
will not be touched upon in that great clearing
up of human mistakes, the final explanation of
things that are dark and meaningless to us now.
I hope that many sleeping dogs will be allowed
to lie. There are a thousand unexplained things
in every life which, although they may never be
forgotten and may influence the entire existence

U

of several persons, are better left untouched.
Among these there is of course a large majority
which might very easily, and some people think,
very profitably, be explained now — from lip to
ear, or with pen and paper ; but such frankness,
such honesty, and such idiotic plain-sullenness
would only serve to make our threescore years
and ten a greater muddle than they already are.

Reticence is not usually classed among the
standard virtues. It occupies a somewhat distressing
position midway between them and the
rabble of minor vices. With an adjective before
it in praise or blame, it can be made to serve as
either, but the position is ever a false one. It
ought originally to have been elected boldly to
the higher place, and much doubtfulness of mind
would have been spared us, while a clearer line
might have been drawn between connivance at a
mistake and unvarnished falsehood.

Perhaps reticence has never had its due recognition,
because in many instances it is a mere
habit, with all a habit's power of growing and
increasing until it is nature. Samuel Crozier
was by nature a reticent man ; with Tom Valliant



the quality was a habit acquired from association
with one whom he admired and respected as he
admired and respected no other human being
upon earth.

They both felt this dull embarrassment, which
was hardly visible, but existed nevertheless at
the mere mention of Goldheath. The feeling
was less intense, perhaps, with Crozier than with
Valliant, because the sailor possessed a greater
power of self-control, and there is no doubt that
the exercise of this power over any particular
emotion or sense is liable in time to deprive that
sense of existence ; but his observation was
keener, and Valliant's least glance or movement
was rarely lost. Thus they had gone on for
years, without ever approaching nearer to an
explanation, and now it was too late. The habit
had grown too strong, the silence too sacred.
But, despite what may be said about frankness
and plain-speaking, I maintain that they were
better thus. It was one of those instances where
the explanation had better never be given, for is
not a friendship with but one flaw in it superior
to one that is broken up ? Had either of them



spoken with a view of dispelling the cloud that
rose at times, things never would have been the
same again.

Of most things they talked freely enough, and
Valliant was frequently confidential respecting
his own affairs ; but Goldheath and the doings
there never came under discussion. When they
left its broad, hospitable door the subject was by
tacit understanding shelved. Men have this way
of doing things more frequently than women.
Some there are who go through life without ever
discussing an unsettled point even with father,
brother, or dearest friend, and the question is
never answered with earthly lips, never seen with
earthly understanding. Crozier never thanked
Valliant effusively for procuring him directly or
indirectly an invitation to Goldheath at a time
when acceptance was permitted by his engagements,
and Tom expected no such thanks.

It would have been natural when travelling
together from or to Goldheath to speak of pastor
anticipated pleasures there, but no such words
fell from either of them. There were plenty of
other subjects possessing mutual interest, and on



these they conversed with that peculiar tension
of which I have spoken until their minds were
fully occupied by other thoughts, and Goldheath
was laid aside or forgotten.

As Valliant rose to go when Mrs. Sanders
had with miraculous rapidity cleared away the
breakfast things, a few words were spoken with
reference to Mrs. Gibb's invitation, which they
arranged to accept separately, while Tom wrote
to Mrs. Yalliant, intimating that they would
take advantage of her hospitality expressed ina
letter received by him.

Of course we will go to Goldheath to dine
and sleep ? " said Yalliant, interrogatively, as he
drew on his gloves carefully.

Crozier was standing before the fire smoking
a wooden pipe, while his hands were thrust into
his pockets.

Yes," he said briefly. " Is it necessary forme
to write, or will you accept for both ? "

I will write — that will be enough."

Yalliant moved slowly across the room towards
the door. Crozier continued smoking and staring
into the fire.



G' morning, Sam," said the medical student.

Crozier turned and looked over his shoulder,
but Valliant was already out of the room, and
the door was slowly swinging to on its ancient
and noiseless hinges.

'' Good morning," he called out.

Then he walked to the window and stood
looking out. Valliant crossed Lime Court without
glancing back, and passed through the
narrow doorway leading westward towards the
Strand.

I thought," muttered the singer, without
taking the pipe from his lips, 'ein fact I knew
that there was something from . . . Goldheath
as soon as he came in ! "



A SHADOW FORECAST.

Sea had in no way exaggerated matters
when she told Crozier, in her abrupt, neat
manner, that the world was pleased to consider
that his influence over Tom Yalliant was not
exactly beneficial. But she had put rather
a different emphasis upon the words, and so
altered the meaning into a decided expression
of condemnation.

It was not considered in Syra's world a very
disgraceful proceeding to go to the bad. So
many had done it, and having reached that
mystic bourne appeared sufficiently well-to-do
and quite happy, that there was almost a sense
of merit in it. Vice most certainly has a subtle
fascination for women and very young men. All
Saint Antony s students admired, in a way, the

VOL. II. 17 19

out-at-elbows scamps who frequented Myra's
whenever they possessed the price of a beverage ;
and therefore, when it had been said that Tom
Valliant was going to the " dogs," and that Sam
Crozier was in no way attempting to stop his
career, there was no virtuous ring of horror in
the remark.

Sam — dear old Sam," was different from
other men. He could do things which other
men could not do — associate with questionable
characters without any one thinking the worse of
him — frequent questionable places without being
noticed there. Outward influence never moved
him But Yalliant was different. Unconsciously
prominent, he did not possess the happy faculty
of passing anywhere unnoticed. His escapades
were talked of, his name freely passed from lip
to lip, while no one took the trouble to inquire
whether Crozier had been there or not.

When Tom Valliant first came to Saint
Antony's it was distinctly and openly under
the wing of Samuel Crozier, who was known to
many of the students, notably to Wilson Leonard
and other older men, who were studying a special



subject without attending every lecture. Crozier
and Valliant had been seen together at all times
and in all places, with the usual result of associating
their names together in men's minds. Where
Crozier was, Valliant might be expected to come,
and vice verse. But this had not lasted long
before the singer deliberately adopted another
course. He saw that Valliant's daily existence
was in many details a very different life from
that of a professional singer. The hours of
sleeping and waking were for the student
different from his own. While his own days
were leisurely if not exactly idle, Tom's were
busy, and the night was required for rest. However
he looked at it, from whatever side he
asked the question in his own mind, Crozier
recognized the fact that too close a friendship
with himself was not conducive to the ultimate
benefit of the young fellow tacitly considered to
be under his protection.

He therefore drew back imperceptibly, accepted
engagements to sing in provincial towns, and
eschewed the society of Saint Antony's men.
In a word, he withdrew his influence, from a



modest assumption that it was likely to do more
harm than good. But the old association of the
two names held good, and casual observers saw no
difference.

About this time a great change came over Tom
Valliant, who was now in his second term. He
suddenly became a leader instead of being led ;
and moreover, he who had been rather quiet and
thoughtful, was the first among the noisier and
gayer of Saint Antony's students.

Crozier noticed this, and concluded that it
was the natural result of association with men of
lighter stamp and a more congenial age than himself.
But among these new companions there
were some whom the singer did not like — such
men as Walter Yarden — and when it was too
late he endeavoured to regain his influence over
Valliant. However, as previously stated, Yalliant
had in the meantime changed, and the attempt
failed signally.

Thus Samuel Crozier found himself in the
painful position of being morally responsible in
the eyes of the world for the misdoings of a man
over whom he could not attempt to exercise



influence without incurring the risk of losing
his friendship. However, the singer did not
attach much importance to the world's opinion,
and behoof himself content that Valliant was not
going to the bad, and never would, he merely-watched
matters from a distance, without interfering
or thrusting himself forward in any way,
when he had once discovered that his influence
was powerless.

He saw and knew the better side of his friend's
life, while to Syra the worst only was presented,
and it was therefore only natural that she should
treat the matter more seriously and upbraid the
patient singer for his apparent indifference, which
she did freely and sincerely whenever she had the
opportunity. Indeed this was the only subject
which was discussed by them with gravity.

Syra's exhortations did not, however, lead him
to deviate from the course he had laid out for
himself, much as he respected her judgment and
appreciated her sincerity.

These two may at times have failed to understand
each other, but there was on the other
hand a singular lack of ^;^/<9understanding. Both



recognized the presence in the other of some few
thoughts and a stray motive or two which were
hidden from all ; and these, both in turn respected.
Neither attempted to fathom the other ;
there was too much mutual respect for that,
absurd as it may seem to you, madam, to apply
such a word to a barmaid. Thus Crozier never
quite understood Syra s interest in Tom Valliant ;
that it was sincere he never doubted, and that
it was without afterthought he was convinced.
Beyond that he knew nothing.

The girl's words were not entirely lost upon
him when she told him that his own name was
coupled with Valliant's in a manner likely to
come to the ears of his family, with the usual
kindly additions of such imaginations as it might
touch in passing from mouth to mouth. He had
told Elma that his influence over Tom was for
no good, but she had chosen to disbelieve him.
If, now, the same opinion came to her from
another quarter she might be shaken in her
disbelief, and this scepticism had been very
pleasant to the singer.

One evening, a few days after Syra had spoken,


Crozier conceived the idea that he had neglected
Tom Valiant of late. That strange mutual embarrassment
which arose whenever the topic
uppermost in both their minds was broached,
had not of late decreased, and this perhaps led
to a slight mutual avoidance. In fact, the friends
where drifting away from each other, as men do
when a woman's shadow comes between. There
was nothing definite, nothing tangible beyond
that vague embarrassment, and instead of lessening
their mutual affection it added to it. It was
not indifference that caused them to drift apart,
but increased affection and the shadowy forecast
of an unavoidable sorrow.

"With these indefinite thoughts struggling for
mastery in a mind which would not allow itself
to think, Samuel Crozier pushed his way through
the crowd that surrounded the stage-door of a
great concert-hall, and bent his steps towards
Myra's. The evening had been a brilliant one,
and his clear steady voice had as usual proved
true to his desire, and quite indefatigable. This
was no mean point in his singing, that his mellow
voice was utterly reliable. He never seemed to



take a note that caused him the least exertion,
and he never made a mistake. The rich harmony
vibrated from his lips over the heads of the
audience with a wonderful fluency and ease,
while to him it was a pleasure in which no tricks
of art could be detected.

As a rule he went straight home when his
work was done, or at the most called in at a club.
Of late he rarely went to Myra's, where his
absence was scarcely commented upon. Successful
men were in the habit of dropping their
acquaintance with the little meeting-place, which
was, as Tom Yalliant once remarked, essentially
a depot for 'returned-empties " ; and it was
only natural that Sam Crozier should follow the
universal custom.

To-night he was going to Myra's, and he knew
that Syra's words were drawing him thither.
Tom would be there, and into Tom's life he was
determined to force himself again.

A few yards from the door he met Walter
Varden, who was hurrying in the opposite
direction.

The medical student stopped short when he


saw the singer, and recognized him in the yellow
light of an open shop-window.

'hallo, Crozier ! " he said, rather breathlessly.
Going to Myra's ? They want you there.
Hell of a row going on 1 A couple of German
fellows have found their way into the inner
bar somehow. The men did not like it, of course,
and when they began making up to Syra things
began to look black. Then one of them said
something to the other about her in German,
and Variant flared up. He understood it, it
appears, but nobody else did. I think there is
going to be a scrimmage."

Crozier moved away a step or two.

So," he said, in a withering undertone, " you
have discovered a convenient eno^ao^ement elsewhere
! "

He walked rapidly on, and only partially heard
Varden, who was left explaining to the lamp-post
that he "er . . . er had to meet a fella."

As the singer passed through the outer bar,
Myra looked into his face with a ludicrous
mixture of anxiety and bewilderment written
upon her round features.



"Oh, Mr. Crozier," she exclaimed, asthmatically,
" I don't know what they're doing inside
at all. I'm afraid they're quarrelling I "

Through the folds of the curtain came, however,
only the sound of one voice — the light
tones of Tom Yalliant, with an uncomfortably
strained ring in its lower pitch.

I'll count six," he was saying, " and at the
word six out you go ! . One . . . two . . ."

And Crozier drew back the curtain. He took
in the whole situation at a glance. The two'
Germans were standing with their backs towards
him at the top of the two steps, while Tom
Valliant stood before them pointing towards the
curtain. His face was not only colourless — it
was livid, and there was in his dark eyes a
steady, cruel glitter.

Three ." he uttered harshly, as Crozier
passed into the inner room, allowing the curtains
to fall together behind him.

Both the foreigners were big^o-er men than
Valliant, and undoubtedly more powerful. They
were hesitating painfully before that bloodless
face. It was braver to be a coward then ; and



to their credit it must be recorded that they did
not fear the man so much as the possible consequences
to himself of this wild rage. That
was the cause of their hesitation whether to q:o
or not. Crozier had no time to judge, no moment
in which to consider whether the foreigners were
to blame for an ungentlemanly act which warranted
Yalliant's indignation, or whether they
had merely trespassed against the customs of a
strange country through ignorance or heedlessness,
just as we Englishmen trespass against the
customs of every land wherein we travel.

Without a moment's hesitation he placed himself
between Valliant and the intruders, an action
which no other man would have dared just then.

Out of this ! " he said, in a dull, hard tone.
Out of this at once ! "

Valliant was grasping the counter with one
slim hand, the other was pressed to his side as
if to quell a sudden pain. He steeped forward,
and stood side by side with his friend, but said
no word — made no attempt to interfere. Crozier
had taken up the quarrel where he had been
forced to drop it, without inquiry, without a



shred of justice perhaps ; but he was content that
it was Tom Valliant's quarrel, and took upon
himself the responsibility of carrying it through
in his masterly, self-restraining fashion.

There was a half-emptied tankard of beer
upon the counter, and with his soft fat hand
the German pointed to it.

But," he argued, " I have not paid for my
drink ! "

I will pay for your drink," replied Crozier,
with a short, disagreeable laugh. " Out you go I "

The foreigners both smiled in a sickly way,
and he whose quarrel it was shrugged his shoulders
and stretched out his hands towards the tankard,
but Ci-osier was before him. He did not hurl
the metal cup to the ground, or spill a single
drop of its contents, but he drew it calmly away.

The German looked quickly round the room.
There were half-a-dozen men present who stood
idly watching, and into the Teutonic mind there
entered no gleam of intelligence to explain their
idleness ; he had no conception of the meaning
of the word " fair-play," and never imagined that
a difference in numbers would be respected. In

this calmer moments this difference had restrained
him, but now he lost sight of it.

'* My beer," he said, doggedly, holding out his
hand. " Give me my beer ! "

And there followed a few muttered words in
guttural German.

Be careful ! " said Crozier, with singular
softness. " I understand German."

The foreigner looked into the stalwart singer s
face, and something there drove the colour from
his cheeks, while his hand dropped to his side.

My friend counted as far as three," continued
the Englishman. '' I will go on where he left
off. . . Four . . ."

There was no ring of passion in this voice,
but its gentleness was even less pleasant to
listen to.

Then the foreigners shuffled restlessly with
their feet, and the younger man, who had not
hitherto spoken, muttered a few pacific words
and touched his friend's sleeve. Before Crozier
could say " five " they were gone, and the heavy
curtains hung motionless.

There was for some seconds an awkward


stillness in the little room, which was ultimately
broken by a squarely-built middle-aged man,
who came forward with his hands in his pockets,
and looked critically at the steps leading down
into the outer bar. This man was a poet, more
or less successful, very lazy, and a noted big-game
hunter.

That would have been an awkward fall,
Sam," he said critically, "for Germanicus to go
down backwards. I saw you measuring the
distance with your eye."

Crozier lao-hed in a constrained manner,

Yes," he said, " beastly place to land on the
back of one's head."

I expect," said some one in the background,
*that Sam's ocular measurement settled the
matter. Deutsche saw the evil glance, and
thought of his mother."

In Syra's sanctum men laughed easily, and
under cover of the merriment that followed this
graceful sally, the singer met the girl's eyes
fixed persistently on his face. Although breathing
somewhat hurriedly, as could be seen by the
rise and fall of her close black dress, she was



apparently attending to lier duties with a
customary calmness. But when she caught
Crozier's glance a momentary gleam of life passed
across her face. Her eyes and lids said to him
quite plainly —

'' Take him away ! "

With an almost imperceptible nod he reassured
her, but carefully avoided looking towards
Tom Valliant, who was sipping his weak whiskey-ands
water with a faint and slightly embarrassed
smile.

Syra," he said aloud, in his usual semi-bantering
tone, "have you any of that tepid
and opaque coffee for which you are justly
celebrated at this time of night, because I should
like some ? "

She tossed her head with mechanical sauciness
and an appropriate smile, as she drew the desired
beverage, clear, and brown and hot from the
urn.

Some people," she said, as she handed him
the cup, and pushed sugar-basin and cream-jug
towards him noiselessly, neatly, rapidly, "are
never satisfied."



No," chimed in a grave journalist, who, being
an Irish Roman Catholic, wrote for a Methodist
weekly organ. " No, I expect when Sam is
placed among the britons in the heavenly
choir, he will complain that his halo is a
misfit."

"And," suggested a star of the comic-opera,
mischievously, with his nose in a long glass
which contained nothing more poisonous than
lemon squash, " and will refuse the engagement."


This was a decided hit for Crozier, and was
accordingly well received. The laugh was very
much against the singer, and he smiled with
quiet appreciation of the situation.

And so the conversation went on. Not very
brilliant, you will say ; not worthy of the
unquestionable genius possessed by some of the
speakers ; not such as a man like Samuel Crozier
who possessed the elements of good somewhere
hidden in his being — should take part in. Perhaps
even, you opine, that it is not worth my
while to write, and yours to read.

But what is the picture you have in your


mind's eye — if you are troubling to think of
these printed lines at all ? A little bar-room
flaring gas, and dissolute faces seen through a
noxious haze of tobacco-smoke. One beautiful
face (if you will please allow it) painted and
rendered horrible by the touch of art ; idle,
artificial conversation falling from the lips of
men endowed with talents and even genius
above the common ruck ; talk that is totally
unworthy of them ; doubtful jokes upon matters
too high and too holy for the touch of ridicule ;
coarse personalities ; vulgar allusions to sacred
thoughts and things. Yes, such is the picture ;
such the surface of the canvas ! But there maybe
a perspective worthy of further note. There
may be good work in an evil thing.

What if these men were talking nonsense with
an object ? What if the dissolute minds were
auditor each other in an act of human kindness ?

o

Think you that, because Syra's eyelids were
gently touched with black pencil, the eyes
beneath were blind to the sufferings of her
fellow-creatures — blind to all save her own immediate
gain ? If you think that — if you think
VOL. II. 33 20

it of any liumaD eyes — I can teach you nothing,
though my years may treble yours. But some
there are who will see a motive in Syra s impertinent
words when she handed Crozier his
coffee. Some will detect a quick grass and
furtherance of that object in the Roman Catholic
journalist's profane pleasantry— for he was almost
a bigot ; and a further clever aid in the burlesque
actor's hit at Crozier, for he laboured under
an exaggerated sense of gratitude towards the
singer, who had helped him upwards by a timely
recommendation.

Nor was the object difficult to reach. Near
the counter Tom Yalliant stood white and
dazed. At times he sipped his 
in a peculiar, slow way ; waiting after
each mouthful, as if it were a question whether
he could swallow it or not. He was breathing
hard, and his left hand was still pressed to his
side.

And so they laughed and talked nonsense,
heeding him not until he was partially recovered,
when Crozier announced his intention of moving
homewards, as he was tired out.



"Coming, Tom ? " he inquired, casually. " Come
and have a pipe in my rooms."

And he waited, so that Yalliant could not but
accept. As they passed through the curtained
doorway together, Crozier took his companion's
arm in a friendly, affectionate way, which they
all knew was quite unlike his reserved habit.



DIPLOMACY.

IVT EITHER spoke for some time, not indeed
-^^ until they had left the noisy region of
the Strand. Then Tom broke the silence. He
had evidently noticed his companion's sudden
display of affection, which had taken the form
of linked arms.

"I hope, old fellow," he said lightly, ^'that
you are not under the impression that I am
screwed."

If Crozier laughed there was no sound in his
laughter ; but the tone of his voice when he
replied was such as would have led one to the
belief that he was smiling — no doubt at the
absurdity of his friend's notion.

"No, I should say you were as sober as a


judge. There is no visible tendency to poor
steering."

No other words passed between them before
they reached Lime Court. Crozier opened the
door with his latch-key. Valliant went in first,
and, having climbed the stairs slowly, passed
into the sitting-room before his friend, turning
up the gas and throwing his hat on to the piano,
while the singer followed and closed the door —
just as they had done hundreds of times before.

'' Whiskey — water — biscuits — baccy," said the
host, with monosyllabic hospitality, as he placed
the articles mentioned upon the table.

There were half-a-dozen unopened letters upon
the writing-table near the window, aud these
Crozier took up and brought forward beneath
the gas. Then he proceeded to open them without
anticipation or curiosity, as one learns to
open business letters.

Presently Tom, who had been thoughtfully
munching biscuit after biscuit, looked up with
his sunny smile.

That German deserved chucking out," he
said tentatively.



Crozier was reading a letter with a slight
contraction of the eyelids amounting almost to
a frown, and he looked down over the paper
without relaxing his features.

"Um . eh ? Oh, yes — he deserved chucking
out."

Because," continued Tom, without appearing
to notice his friend's absence of mind — " because
he was sober. Had he been half-seas over I
would have forgiven him."

Crozier agreed vaguely in an unintelligible
monosyllable, and turned towards the writing-table,
where he opened his small diary of engagements.
Clearly he did not wish to discuss
the incident of Syra's sanctum — the subject had
no interest for him, and he was nervously desirous
that Tom should forget about it as soon as
possible.

He came forward again into the middle of the
room, with the letter still in his hand.

"Here is a piece of bad luck," he said, with
singularly little sign of regret or disappointment
in his voice. " An afternoon concert on the day
of Mrs. Gibb's dance."



Valliant looked up sharply. Then he shrugged
his shoulders and took a bit of biscuit.

Oh, hang the afternoon concert ! "

'' I cannot hang it, my boy," said Crozier, with
a smile. " I must go and raise my angel voice
by special request of Eoyalty ! "

''By special request . . ." exclaimed Tom,
neatly catching the letter which his companion
threw towards him. " Oh, lor . . . Eoyalty !
I think I should like to go home at once. You
are getting too great a swell altogether for me,
Sam."

Crozier stood with his hands in his pockets,
thinking deeply, while his companion read the
letter.

Yes," said Tom, after a moment's silence,
your little hash is settled — to use a vulgar but
expressive simile. You will have to sing or flee
the country."

Then the result of Crozier's meditations came
forth.

"I will tell you what I will do," he said,
practically. " I will sing my song, and then bolt
for Waterloo in time for that train we went down



by once — the five . . . something . . . which
gets down in time for dinner at seven. I will
be dressed, so that I shall be ready for anything.
You will go down earlier ? "

Tom moved in the deep arm-chair and crossed
his legs. He had quite recovered his usual faint
pink colour now, and was smiling meditatively.

"Yes," he said, "that will do. If — dien
entendu — you think it worth your while."

Crozier yawned.

Oh yes," — politely — " of course it is worth
my while. I suppose we need not come up by a
very early train the next morning. Will you go
down on the day of the dance, or sooner still ? I
should, if I were you. It is ridiculous troubling
about Saint Antony's ; you will never be a
doctor."

Tom laughed in his silent, infectious way.

Not if I am aware of the fact," he confessed,
in a low tone.

Then why attend these beastly lectures ?
Why learn a lot of things which are not only
useless but unpleasant, and can do you nothing
but harm ? Surely there is nothing to be gained



by investigating human misery, and it ought not
to be an amusement for any man."

Valliant laughed in his most flippant and
aggravating way, but made no reply.

It would be much better for you to get out
of all this," continued Crozier, unabashed and
quite undaunted by his companion's merriment.
What is the good of your frittering away your
time between St. Antony's and Myra's, doing
absolutely no good ? You ought to be down in
the country living a quiet, healthy life, and
drawing from morning till night, out of doors
if possible."

Valliant was still smiling, but there was a little
unsteadiness in his lower lip — so trifling that his
companion did not notice it. He remained silent.

"It is not only from tlfat point of view that
the fact is evident that you should get out of
this. Myra's — is not what it used to be, Tom.
The ragamuflin element is on the increase, and
the medical on the wane. The best men from
St. Antony's don't go there now. It does a
fellow's reputation no good to be known as an
habitue r



Does that matter ? " — unsteadily, with a
touch of bitterness.

"Yes," answered the singer very gravely.
'sit does. It matters very much."

His pipe was in his mouth, but the tobacco was
not lighted. From his pocket he drew a small
silver match-box, and shook it tentatively, only to
find it empty. Then he went to the mantelpiece,
where a larger box stood always full. Slowly he
proceeded to fill the smaller one with great
deliberation, dropping each match in separately.
As he did this he spoke in an even, speculative
voice.

I have always thought that a man's reputation
is a thing which he should keep clean and
bright for the edification of his women-folk . . .
It matters to you, Tom, what people say and
think, because . . ." He broke off in order to
light his pipe, and apparently forgot to complete
the sentence. '' For me it is different," he added,
as he threw the match away.

I suppose," murmured Tom, by way of filling
up an awkward silence, '*' that it will be all the
same a hundred years hence."



No," corrected Crozier at once, " that is
precisely what it will not be. It will be quite
different. There again is a distinction between
us. I have a certain power now over people ; I
can make them pay seven-and-sixpence for a
stall in St. James's Hall, or the Albert Hall ; I
can even make them shed a furtive tear when
they are in the stall ; but in a hundred years
there will be absolutely nothing left — no shred
of memory. An old song here and there, brown
and musty, will record that it was sung by
Crozier ; and some one idly turning the forgotten
music will perhaps wonder for a moment who
Crozier was and how he sang. But with you
it is quite another matter. If you choose, you
can be a living, speaking individuality to generations
not yet born. Your drawings can teach
them to understand the poetry of an age which
has faded from living memory."

But," suggested Tom, half seriously, " I don't
care a hang for generations yet unborn. I am
afraid that I am not thinking of them."

Crozier looked down at him quietly. He
was standing in his favourite position on the



hearth rug, with his shoulder against the corner
of the mantelpiece and his hands in his pockets.

No more am I," he said gently ; " no more
am I, Tom ! I am thinking of you."

Yalliant looked up quickly and almost furtively.
It was the glance of a man who, possessing;
a secret, fears that it has long been
discovered ; but Crozier s smile reassured him.

Yes," he said, wearily, " I know you are, old
man. There must be many more profitable
subjects to think about."

He rose and took his hat, turning towards his
friend with a sunny smile.

Come," he said, lightly, *' we are getting
serious, which will never do. It suits neither
of us. I cannot do it at all, and when you try
you only become dull and uninteresting. I am
desperately sleepy, and so will make a graceful
exit."

Crozier did not move, so Yalliant crossed the
room towards him, holdings out his hand.

*' Good night, Sam."

"Goodnight!"

Crozier allowed him to go as far as the door


before he spoke. Then he raised his voice a little,
and the words fell very clearly from his lips.

If you should go down earlier to Goldheath,"
he suggested, " I can bring any flowers, or things
you may require."

'^ Flowers . . . ? Oh yes ! Yes, you might
do that, Sam — if it is not giving you too much
trouble. I had forgotten about flowers, though
of course they have them down there, but not
the proper sort."

Stephanotis, I suppose," murmured Crozier,
between puff's of smoke, " and perhaps some
white lilac."

Tom was standing just outside the door beneath
a gas jet. He was very pale, and there
were dark rims round his weary eyes. He
pushed his hat on to the back of his head and
stretched himself in an unnatural way, passing
his hand across his brow.

*' Are those her . . . the proper thing for such
an occasion ? " he inquired, with a faint suggestion
of humorous sarcasm.

I should think so," answered the singer, with
untruthful doubt.



Eight. I should be much obliged if you
would bring them down ; but don't trouble too
much about it."

Oh, no trouble," said Crozier, indifferently.

With a little nod Tom continued his way
down-stairs, and presently banged the front-door
behind him.

The singer still leant against the mantelpiece
and smoked placidly. He was particularly wide
awake, and evidently had no intention of going
to bed for some time. So far was this intention
from his thoughts that he presently brought
writing materials, and laid them upon the table
in the centre of the room, sitting down before
them with leisurely energy. All the while he
hummed a tune beneath his breath. There were
many letters before him, and these he proceeded
to investigate for a second time with methodical
precision ; his small diary open before him. The
royal concert was duly noted, and the letter laid
aside for reply the next morning. Many other
letters were treated in a similar manner — most
of them being bare-faced impositions, practised
under the cloak of charity, upon his good-nature.



At last he came to a note written in a spidery
hand upon black-edged paper. There was something
singularly suggestive of the lodging-housekeeper
about this communication. The postmark
on the envelope was Bristol. Crozier read
it through slowly, and j^la-ced it in his breast-pocket.


*' So Holdsworth is free," he said to himself,
and I am richer by seventy pounds a year.
She has got away from him at last ; but I shall
not tell him until I go down to Goldheath."

Then he turned to a batch of advertisements,
mostly from ship-chandlers, riggers, and 
in and about Cowes. These
disposed of, he drew the writing-case towards him,
and for the first time in his life wrote the words,
Dear Elma," at the head of a sheet of notepaper.
The ink slowly dried on his pen while
he contemplated them, but he was lost in no
sentimental dreams. He was merely wondering
whether he should be weakly scrupulous, which
would be dangerous, or boldly diplomatic. He
reflected that Elma was always the first down in
the morning, and the letters were placed upon



the plates of those persons to whom they were
addressed. It was marvellous how well versed
he was in the movements and habits of the
Valliant household. It was therefore a very easy
matter to get a letter into Elma's hands without
the knowledge of her parents. Bold diplomacy
was therefore his wisest method. If the letter
got into other hands no actual harm would follow,
but he preferred that El ma should alone be aware
of its contents, and the rest must be left to her
womanly wit.

Can you," he wrote, *' without allowing your
name or mine to appear, arrange that Tom be
invited to go and stay at Goldheath for a few
days, until the Vicarage dance ? Let the letter
be from your mother, and the sooner he receives
it the better. If possible, let this note be destroyed,
and forgotten at once. I have good
reasons for writing it, but must ask you to trust
me until to-day week, when I hope to go to
Goldheath."

He ceased writing, dried the letter carefully
with a sheet of blotting-paper, and sat, pen in
hand, thinking.



If," he reflected, " this gets into the old
lady's hands the whole affair will be muddled,
and I will he forced to tell her more than I want
to, or let her think more than she ought to.
But I must risk that . I must also risk . . .
whatever Elma may think of me. She is the
only person who can help me with Tom now.
The fact that I am doing it for Tom's good may
occur to her, and that will be all she wants, I
think."

He added the words, " Yours very truly," and
signed his full name formally.

Then he took another sheet of paper and wrote
quickly without hesitation —

Dear Leonard,

"^ See Tom Valliant tomorrow if
you can without awakening his suspicions. Don't
let him know that you have heard from me. He
got into a row to-night at Myra's, and I would
have given thirty pounds to have had you there.
Of course I am utterly ignorant from a medical
point of view ; but it seems to me that he had
a close shave of something or other. He does

VOL. II. 49 21

not know that I noticed anything. I brought
him here for a smoke, and he has just gone to
Craven Street apparently perfectly well, but I
am rather uneasy about him. Am trying to
arrange sud rosa that he gets away into the
country.

*' Yours,

*sam Crozier."

The singer folded the letter, and addressed it
to Dr. Leonard, at Saint Antony's, and before
going to bed he went down-stairs and dropped
both communications into the old pillar-box let
into the wall of No. 11, Lime Court.

^



CHAPTER IV.

THE PLOT.

"TlLMA was exceptionally punctual the next

JL

morning, but the squire was before her.

When she entered the little library she found
her father standing at the window contemplating
the walled garden where the white-frost lay in
parts. After placing her morning salutation
airily upon his white moustache, she turned to
the breakfast table with an eye upon the coffee-pot.
Then she perceived that there were three
letters upon her plate.

*' Ah," she said in a pleased voice, " letters.
Letters for me ! "

The squire glanced over his shoulder with an
affectionate smile upon his ruddy face, but
Elma's back was turned towards him, and so



she lost it. Her averted face was quite grave,
and she was holding one letter in her hand,
reading the address in a curious, still way ; the
others lay unheeded on the table. Presently
she slipped the letter into her pocket and opened
the other two energetically with the prong of a
fork. While she read them the squire stood Ly
the window whistling softly to himself the air of
an old hunting song, of which the memory had
been awakened by the sunny morning, still air,
and harmless white-frost, which would presently
melt away, leaving the ground quite soft.

After a little while she placed the dishes
within the fender.

Mother is very late this morning," she
observed, suggestively.

Yes," answered the old gentleman, replying
to the unasked question in her voice, " she
was not nearly ready when I came down."

Elma came and stood beside her father in the
full light of the window — a cheery, bright little
maiden, straight as an arrow, absurdly young in
figure and expression.

Will you drive with me to the meet to-day


or ride ?" lie asked, divining in which direction
lay her whither's thoughts.

I must ride to-day," was the reply, uttered
merrily with palms slowly rubbed together; "I
must ride to-day, little woman."

"But no breaking away," she said, warningly,
with a smile upon her parted lips; " no profanity,
and following the hounds dien you promised
not to."

The squire laughed and chuckled with great
enjoyment. It was a known fact in the countryside
that if the hounds found while the squire
was on horseback within sound, he would begin
by swearing in a round old-fashioned way at the
infirmities of age, and finish by following almost
as straight as in his younger days.

Elma knew that she never had him safely
unless he was in the carriage beside her, and
she was fully aware that the old sportsman loved
to be reminded of his weakness.

She laughed a little in concert, and then turning
slowly she left the room without saying another
word. Crossing the hall, she entered the diningroom
with one hand in the pocket of her dress.



There was no one there. The pale wintry sun
shone through the tall window and divided the
old carpet into squares. The fire had not long
been lighted, so the wood crackled still, and
there was a pleasant odour of burning resin in
the air.

There had been a slight frost, and the atmosphere
of this large room was decidedly chilly,
but Elma did not seem to notice it. She went
to the window, and standing there drew the
letter from her pocket. There was nothing
surreptitious in her manner, no desire of concealment,
but she had already obeyed one of
Sam Crozier's requests without having seen
inside the envelope.

She read the laconic note carefully, and finding
that the contents coincided with her own
(alas !) natural instinct, she concealed the paper
in the bosom of her dress in order to insure
greater safety. This she did somewhat hurriedly
because her mother was on the stairs ; and, with
quick — what shall we say ? — tact, remained
motionless while Mrs. Valliant passed the open
door. Again I must repeat that there was no



surreptitiously in her thoughts or movements.
A little concealment, a little dissimulation, and a
little falsehood are necessary if human beings
wish to live together in anything like harmony.
This is to be lamented, of course, but we cannot
help it.

Elma Yalliant was inconsistent in her blind
obedience and bold disregard, shown in the same
moment. Without comment she recognized that
the fact of her having received a letter from the
singer was to be suppressed, merely of course
because he said so, because it would assist him
in some scheme of which she knew absolutely
nothing ! Ah — that instinct of concealment,
how beautifully naive it is ! But she chose to
disregard his practical suggestion, that their
object would be ensured and aided by the
destruction of the letter without delay. Of
course it would. There could be no two opinions
upon the matter ; and how like a man to suggest
such an obvious necessity to a woman ! Again,
how like a woman to ignore the suggestion, and
run a greater risk for no visible satisfaction.
Elma smiled as she read Sam's warning: words.

Clumsy, blind old Sam ! Surely he might have
guessed that she knew much more about such
small diplomatic matters than he. Fancy, my
brothers, teaching a woman how to sweetly tell
and carry out a white lie ! Such a letter as El ma
had received must of course be destroyed at once,
and its attendant incidents forgotten. Therefore
she thrust it into her dress, buttoning up
carefully. I offered her five shillings for it only
the other day, at which she blushed very prettily,
and changed the subject without delay. The
other day ? — Did I say the other day ? It was
about seven years ago.

Crozier had asked her to trust him until he
could explain matters with his own lips, and she
did so. No question seemed to arise within her
mind as to whether he was acting prudently and
for the best. She knew that he had run some
risk of misconstruction, and that he had also
placed her in a similar position, but for this
she bore him no ill-will. Indeed she appeared
to find some pleasure in sharing the danger,
which is always a more serious matter for women
than for men. She never doubted that his action



was the wisest possible "under circumstances
which had evidently arisen somewhat suddenly,
and in a cheery, confident way she undertook to
assist him.

Of course she could manage the task allotted
to her, and would willingly have had it harder.
Such little things are safe in a woman's hands ;
they can do them so neatly, especially with the
aid of a pair of innocent eyes and a ready little
smile.

Thinking over these and other subjects, Elma
fell into a reverie, out of which she was presently
awakened by the clink of china coming from the
library.

She crossed the room and stood in front of the
fireplace. There she tore up the envelope which
Sam had dropped into the pillar-box in Lime
Court the night before, and threw the pieces
on to the burning coals, where they were soon
consumed.

He is so stupid," she whispered to the flames,
with a very soft gleam in her eyes. " I should
like to write back to him — a long letter, on two
sheets, and all I should say would be : ' I don't



love Tom — I don't love Tom — I don't love
Tom'"

#4/. .Si. JA. JA,

-TT Ter "Tv-Tr

It will give so much extra work to the
servants," argued Mrs. Yalliant, when the squire
found that he had actually proposed to ask Tom
Valliant down to stay a week or so, including
the Yicarao-e dance. The old gentleman did not
exactly know how the subject had cropped up,
or how it occurred that he should make such
a daring proposal. We must ask Elma about
that. However, he had done it, and his genial
spirit of hospitality was aroused. Moreover, the
prospect of a jolly meet, and the sight of a
cloudy sky which almost spoke of spring and
called a truce on hunting, exhilarated him. He
was hopelessly genial and exalted — required
snubbing, in fact, as old gentlemen sometimes
do, and Mrs. Valliant presently saw to that,
because it was strictly within her department.

It will give so much extra work to the
servants," she said, with a half-suppressed sigh
of resignation, as if the scullery-maid's work
were about to fall upon her shoulders.



I will get up early and polish the grates,"
said the squire, winking obviously at Elma.
There was the sound, even, of a wink in his
genial voice.

The woman who had possessed for twenty-five
years one of the best husbands in England,
smiled in a chilly, heartless manner, and shrugged
her shoulders.

I think we can manage without that," she
observed, with great dignity.

The squire was irrepressible. It was all owing
to that light, south-westerly breeze, which has a
frivolous way of getting into men's veins.

Oh," he said, with a chuckle, " don't hesitate
to make use of me. Any trifling service of the
description mentioned, you know, my dear, will
be a pleasure to me."

- This daring impertinence would have settled
the matter finally had Mrs. Valliant been indifferent
respecting Tom's visit. But she was
not so. She wanted him to come, for he was
dear to her, after her manner — the manner of
a hard woman who has never known the love
of a son, which is quite different from that of a



(laughter, inasmuch as it is daring and often
arbitrary. And it would almost appear that a
woman values love in ratio to the greatness of
its demands and heartlessness of its subsequent
ingratitude.

"I will write to him this morning," said Mrs.
Valliant, with some condescension, and there the
matter rested.

Elma hardly seemed to notice the final
decision. She was occupied with a collection
of crumbs, for which a small feathered tribe was
patiently waiting outside the window.

I hope," she reflected, as she tapped the
bread-tray with a knife, " that he will be content
with my share of this deep scheme. But
but I suppose it will only confirm his suspicion
that I care for Tom."

Two days later Tom Yalliant arrived at Gold-heath.
Elma was at the station to meet him.
She had driven over alone, having effected the
arrangement with some difficulty. But she was
anxious to see the first of her cousin — anxious,
in an indefinite desire to speak to him before
any one else. She thought that he might bring



some explanation of Crozier's unusual action —
rendered more peculiar by the fact that the
singer excelled more in a masterly stillness than
in moving. During the first greeting, however,
she learnt that Tom knew nothing of the letter
to which he owed his presence in the little pony-cart
by her side ; and the realization of how
much Crozier had left to chance and her own
quick wit came as a shock at the same time.
Once or twice already there had been occasions
on which it would have been so perilously easy
to make a mistake. Notably, in the first
instance, on the receipt of the letter ; in
the second, on greeting her cousin at the
station.

Nevertheless, Tom Yalliant had brought the
explanation with him. It was written round his
eyes, and in the lines that appeared near his
clean shaven lips when his face was in repose.
She did not read, but unconsciously touched
upon it.

I will not inquire," she said merrily, " what
time you went to bed last night, or whether you
went to bed at all. It may be a delicate subject,

Gl

but your appearance might, in mixed society,
lead to unpleasant questions."

He glanced at her keenly. It was a mere
flash of his quick eyes, unnoticed by her in the
absorption of rounding a sharp corner with a
home-going pony. Then he laughed.

^' When a jaded, overworked son of toil comes
down from the restless city," he said, with
dramatic gravity, 'ris it kind to presume upon
rosy cheeks and a digestion untouched by midnight
oil — to cast his complexion in his face, so
to speak, and to attribute a becoming pallor to
the worst possible causes ? Now you would not
imagine, I suppose, that I attended a Young
Men's Christian lecture last night — would you ? "

"No," she answered severely, '' I would not."

He shrugged his shoulders with great resignation.


It is no good," he said meekly, " talking to
you, if you begin by doubting a hitherto spotless
veracity."

Thus they began, and thus they went on
during the few days that followed. Both seemed
to be under a nervous apprehension of some sort.



Both were terribly afraid of becoming grave — of
treating any subject seriously.

On the surface, however, they were both in
excellent spirits, and superficial things are often
deeper than we reckon. Where would human
happiness, human merriment, and human laughter
be without the superficial ?

i^^^r^.

""'"^^S^i^^*^'''^



FLOWERS.

T)Y good fortune Crozier succeeded in carrying

-*-^ ■ out this plans for the evening of Mrs. Gibb's

ball at Goldheath. He sang this two songs,

received his applause with the usual grave bow,

and rushed off to Waterloo Station in the quickest

hansom obtainable.

There was a slight delay at Co vent Garden,

where he called for some flowers ordered and

selected a few hours earlier ; nevertheless he

caught the train, and at five minutes to seven

stood beneath the broad porch of Goldheath

Court. From the cold gusty night he passed

into the cheery, thickly-carpeted hall, where a

fire burnt ruddily with many a gleam upon

ancient flint-lock and holster pistol suspended

upon the walls.



In the centre, near the table, stood Elma, a
vision of soft clinging silks and incomprehensible
gauze. She had just run down-stairs, swinging
gloves and fan in her hand, and was consequently
breathless.

'' So you have done it," she gasped, as she held
out her bare hand with a smile of welcome.

'^ Yes," he answered, quickly removing his
glove before shaking hands. '^ I knew I
could manage it. There was really plenty of
time."

He laid the flowers on the table previous
to removing his thick coat, and Elma looked
supremely unconscious of their presence.

I hope the flowers are right," he said, glancing
back over his shoulder as he turned to hang
up his coat and hat. The servant had vanished
with his bag a moment before.

Elma took up the odorous informal bouquet
which he had thrown down somewhat recklessly,
and raised it to her face. She chased colour
suddenly, blushing almost painfully.

They . are lovely," she murmured unevenly.

He had come back into the middle of the room
VOL. II. 65 22

and was standing before her, looking down at
the flowers with a critical wisdom.

I suppose white flowers are always safe ? "
he said with what seemed to her forced carelessness.


Yes' she answered, rather vaguely, as if lie
had not caught the meaning of his words ; '' yes,
I should think so."

I mean that they will go with almost any
dress "

Oh yes — almost any dress."

**I thought so," he said, earnestly, as if a load
had been lifted from his mind — as if one of the
unanswered questions of his existence had found
a reply at last.

He had removed his coat, laid aside his hat,
and pulled down his waistcoat. There was
nothing to detain them any longer in the hall,
but still they lingered.

"Thank you very much . . ." she began, but
he stopped her by laying his hand hurriedly
upon her bare arm, pressing harder than he was
aware of.

They are not from me," he interrupted.

speaking rapidly ; " I brought them for Tom —
by Tom's order, I mean — for him to give to
you."

She half turned away, burying her face among
the white flowers with a nod signifying that she
understood. Then she looked up into his face
with a quaint little smile.

Thank you very much, then," she said, " for
bringing them. I may thank you, I suppose,
for having taken some trouble in the matter,
although I must express my gratitude to Tom
for having; thought of it."

He smiled in response, but there was a singular
expression upon his lips which failed to
coincide with the perfectly natural light in his
eyes.

"It was no trouble," he said, indifferently,
making at the same time a distinct movement
towards the drawing-room door. She could not
but obey his suggestion.

*' I expected that Tom would have told you
about the flowers," he said, as he followed her
towards the drawing-room, which was at the
other end of a passage ; *' and my expectation



was more or less confirmed by the fact that you
came down-stairs without any."

I never put my flowers on until the last
moment," she observed, in a tone of vast experience,
" otherwise they would be dead before the
evening was half over."

He made no answer, and they passed into the
drawing-room in silence.

I should like to know," she reflected rapidly,
as a mere matter of curiosity, who really thought
of it — whose idea it really was to bring flowers
down from London."

I wonder," he meditated, " whether she has
other flowers up-stairs, or if she ."

Here Mrs. Valliant came forward with outstretched
hand and a few formal words of
welcome.

A few moments later Tom appeared, looking
very graceful and refined in his evening dress.
El ma held up the flowers, which she was in the
act of placing in a bowl of water in the darkest
and coolest corner of the drawing-room."

These delicate attentions, 7nou cousin'' she
said gaily, '' are overpowering."



All ! " he exclaimed, as if he had forgotten all
about them, or as if the matter were really of
small interest — " Ah — vegetables."

He crossed the room and sniffed at them.

The delicacy of the attention is not the only
thing about them which will be overpowering
before this entertainment is over, I am thinking.
How are you, Samuel ? Why did you bring
such smelly ones ? "

Smelly ones 1 " echoed Elma, indignantly ;
they are lovely. There is nothing so sweet on
earth as stephanotis."

Tom laughed derisively.

Give me," he said, addressing Crozier with
tragically outstretched arm, " a flower that has
no smell — the humble daisy, the azure corn-flower,
the sustaining cauliflower."

I am afraid," answered Crozier with perfect
gravity, " that I have not got one at the
moment."

Only Tom remained grave. He shrugged his
shoulders with a great show of disgust.

"The man," he muttered, "has no poetry in
him." And turning sharply round he arranged

G9

his tie with the aid of a Venetian looking-glass
suspended above the mantelpiece.

But, Tom," said Elma presently, taking up
the unfinished argument, '' do you mean seriously
to say that you prefer flowers without smell ? "

I do," he said. " There is nothing so depressing
as the smell of white flowers. Mind I
like it, but it depresses me. It is the sentiment
of the thing, I am afraid. Were I a school-girl
the odour of flowers would make me think of the
moon, the shimmering sea, soft twilight hours,
the midnight song of the cucumber — the nightingale,
I mean — and similar unsatisfactory things.
Being a man, I am consumed with a great desire
to smoke instead. Perhaps it is a mere matter
of past association. I never thought of that
before. Sam always wears a spray of stephanotis
when he can get it, which no doubt accounts for
the whole business."

He laughed and looked towards Crozier. Elma
laughed also, but chanced to look in exactly the
opposite direction. The singer met his friend's
eyes and smiled obediently. He had been talking
with Mrs. Yalliant, and was without the least



knowledge of what he was expected to smile at —
but that did not matter much.

Then the dinner-bell sounded through the house,
and the squire came into the room, groaning and
holding his back, but smiling genially nevertheless.
He was a truly hospitable man in the good
old-fashioned manner ; loved to see strange faces
round his table — more especially young faces. This
evening he was resplendent in dress-clothes of an
earlier date, with onyx buttons on the waistcoat,
and three honest rubies on his broad and manly
breast. The groan meant nothing, and in nowise
disquieted the ladies. They knew that it was
only geniality, which usually takes the form of a
noise of some description, and a painless grunt is
preferable to the aggravating dra wing-in of breath
through closed teeth, which is a more common
sign.

Ah ! " he exclaimed, holding out his broad
brown hand, " Sam, my boy. Glad to see you !
The singer, eh ? The Royal minstrel — ha, ha, olaf
How did you get on ? "

Splendidly, thanks ! "

Congratulate you, my boy ! Congratulate


you ! Only wish your good father was here todo
the same," said the old gentleman, squaring
his arms and pulling down his waistcoat with a
cheery jerk.

'' He doesn't look as if he were fresh from the
presence of Eoyalty, does he ? " suggested Tom,
except that his hair is a trifle ruffled on this
side."

The singer passed his hand scientifically over
his crisply curled head.

That," he answered readily, " is where I tore
it when the cab-horse slid down Wellington
Street on its shoulder."

'' Ha, ha, Fia ! " laughed the squire, tailing off
apoplectically into subsidiary chuckles, at the
end of which he looked suddenly grave and
turned to Crozier.

Must congratulate you also," he said, in the
confidential manner of a stage aside, '* upon that
other matter — the money, eh ? Don't invest it
in a Dock Company. You needn't be afraid of
horseflesh, but avoid the turf — sailors never learn
the ropes there."

Crozier's reply was lost in the rustle of Mrs.


Valliant's silks as she moved austerely towards
the door.

Elma, my dear," said the old gentleman, with
a preliminary groan, '' I am afraid I will not be
able to have that polka with you to-night ; my
lumbago . . ."

But you must, papa ; I never let my partners
off like that. Lumbago or no lumbago, once
the name is on my programme there is no
turning back. Besides, I heard you running
down-stairs just now when we were in the
drawing-room."

There was a break in the conversation, while
all heads were solemnly bowed over the table, and
the squire's shirt-front bulged audibly.

Thank-God ! " observed the old fellow, reverently
— the briefest of brief graces, which never
failed to make Tom smile.

My dear child," he continued in the same
breath, with twinkling eyes, " I am seriously ill.
It came on suddenly, with a sort of click, when I
was twisting round to try and let out the strap at
the back of my dress . . ."

** Don't you take soup, Mr. Crozier ? " inquired


Mrs. Valliant suddenly, with a sharp glance at
each of her servants in turn, just to see
whether their sensitive nerves had been affected,
no doubt.

The squire finished his remark by a comprehensive
and very evident wink over his soup-spoon.


Tom Yalliant was singularly jolly that evening,
and his cheeks had a faint pink tinge, not in
blotches, but evenly and all over. The dark
rings round his eyes had vanished. Evidently
the quiet country life of Goldheath suited him
admirably. He was also in excellent spirits, and
talked almost incessantly, while the squire laughed
and held his back v/ith both hands.

It was under the cover of a brilliant sally, at
which every one laughed, that Elma spoke a few
words under her breath, without looking towards
any one in particular ; indeed her eyes were
lowered to her plate.

I hope," were the words, " that you are
content with my share in the plot."

Samuel Crozier was next to her. He glanced
in her direction, sideways, along the table-cloth



towards her hands, but said nothing. A few
minutes later an opportunity occurred, and he
replied —

I never doubted," almost in a whisper and
ambiguously, but she understood.

/

DANGER.

AS Samuel Crozier bowed over Mrs. Gibb's
chubby band, he saw at the other end of
the room William Holdsworth. The sailor was
no dancer, but he invariably accepted invitations,
and really made himself very useful to his
hostess in talking to elderly ladies when he
could not find a young one without a partner.
Elma's programme was much in request, and
Crozier saw that Holdsworth did not ask her to
sit out a dance with him. As far as he could
judge, indeed, he concluded that they did not
speak to each other, more than a few formal
words of greeting, during the entire evening.
From this he surmised that something had taken
place — something which saved him from the



necessity of warning Elma against this old
shipmate.

Presently the two men passed close to each
other in a tiny room, full of people partaking
noisily and merrily of tea and coffee.

I want to speak to you," said Crozier in
an undertone, after they had nodded casually as
slight acquaintances.

Holdsworth looked uncomfortable for a second.

"Crozier is such an extraordinary fellow," he
reflected, *^ for hearing confidences. I wonder if
Elma has told him."

He need have had no such fear. Elma was in
her own estimation singularly capable of taking-care
of herself. She had an entire reliance in
her own strength of purpose, hidden, it may be,
beneath smiles and a certain coquetry, but existing
nevertheless, and only betrayed by that
little square chin and an occasional glance of
her changeable eyes. In confidences she never
indulged, and of herself she rarely talked. There
was one person to whom she never spoke on
matters concerning herself, and that man was
Samuel Crozier.

77 ■

Holdsworth looked keenly into his former
officer's face. The old " quarter-deck " expression
was not there, and the sailor augured from its
absence that there was nothing very disagreeable
hangings over his unfortunate head.

Will it take long ? " he inquired, audaciously
smiling.

Crozier looked at his programme before
replying.

'' Number seventeen is a schottische," he said,
in a quietly undeniable manner. " I will not be
dancing it. Will you keep yourself free ? "

Yes."

Holdsworth moved away, looking grave, while
Crozier turned to greet an asthmatic old parson
who had known his father. The sailor again felt
a sudden misgiving — a vague sense, as it were,
of discomfort — as if some new trouble were at
hand. But presently he threw this off, and
became the merriest of the merry. He lived for
the present to an extraordinary degree, and
number one had just begun ; number seventeen,
the schottische, was a long way off.

At times during the evening that disagreeable


possibility of Crozier's leaving heard of the little
scene in a conservatory some weeks before suggested
itself to the sailor, but he soon dismissed
it with easy confidence. Tom Valliant's manner
to himself was friendly in the extreme, which
incident closed the most likely channel through
which the information might have passed.

The local dancing men found that Elma's programme
had been seriously tampered with before
she entered the room — the initials " S. C." and
T. y." occurring alternately in brotherly unity
at short intervals from top to bottom. Tom
Yalliant was a very fair dancer, but incorrigibly
lazy. He never danced from the first bar of the
music to the last, as did his friend. Twice round,
and find a seat, was the principle upon which he
acted. Elma had long ago ceased to draw his
attention to the laziness of this proceeding. She
had divined that, much as he loved and invited
chafe*, all remarks upon the limits of his endurance
as regarded dancing were unwelcome. In after
years she looked back with thankfulness upon
the instinctive feeling; which withheld her tongue
on this point.



The feelings of certain young Goldheathans
upon the subject of London men in general,
and two of them in particular, were deep and
bitter, causing several naissant moustaches to be
tugged pugnaciously over Elma's engagement-card
; while more than one fallow mind conceived
the possibility of Mrs. Yalliant's being
a less formidable person than was generally
supposed. Few of them would have dared to
dance four times (had the opportunity been
given them, hen entendre, by the young person
most interested) with the daughter of the
squire's wife.

Sam Crozier used to say in his quizzical self-abuse
that he was an old stager — a supper
bachelor — and his friends believed or disbelieved
him as they liked. He only had four dances
with Elma scribbled on her engagement-card
hastily, but they were the four best waltzes there.
Thus, the first was immediately before the
Lancers, which he knew Elma would not dance,
and by this simple device he secured an opportunity
of giving her the explanation he knew,
by the glance of her eyes, she was awaiting.



They danced the waltz without speaking many
words. Crozier never talked much once the
music had begun, and they knew each other
well enough to ignore the politer usages of
society. As the music slackened with choral
signs of a finale, Elma made a tiny movement
which he detected at once. It was the almost
unconscious signal of a wish to stop and get
away before the crowd. They both knew the
house well. Elma had run about, up-stairs and
down-stairs, since she could run at all, while
Crozier was born in the large room above the
drawing-room.

And so he led her up the broad shallow steps
with her fingers resting on his arm, as he had led
her, hand in hand, twenty years before. There
was a broad alcove at the head of the stairs,
and here they found a sofa. As they seated
themselves a sudden rush of voices in the hall
beneath told of a breathless multitude seeking;
rest. The dance was over.

Crozier began at once in his usual straightforward
way.

I wrote to you," he said, " because I wanted
VOL. II. 81 23

to get Tom away from London. He was
regularly out of sorts — required a change, you
understand."

And so you thought of Goldheath ? "

And so I thought of Goldheath," he replied,
absently, for he was striving to reach the meaning
of her tone, which was not quite natural.
There was a subtle significance in it which he
failed to catch.

Where else could he — or rather would he —
have gone ? '' said the singer, still striving to
divine her thoughts.

She turned towards him with a bright and
amused smile.

*' Nowhere, of course," she replied.

Nevertheless Crozier conceived the strange
idea that Tom Yalliant's visit had for some
reason been distasteful to Elma. He could not
be expected to read a woman's whim. The
true reason of her slight displeasure lay so
deeply hidden from his eyes, and he was so utterly
devoid of vanity, that he never suspected what
it was, until the knowledge was forced upon him
later.



I hope," he said, " that it was not inconvenient,
but I was really frightened for the moment.
Tom is not strong, and the life he leads in town
is not such as he ought to lead. I was scared
by the thought (suddenly thrust upon me by
some one else), that I was more or less responsible.
Perhaps I lost my head a little, for I was alone,
and it was late at night."

Elma laughed suddenly in a peculiar, impatient
way.

^'It would be so like you to lose your head,"
she said, sarcastically, " would it not ? "

His deep-set eyes rested for a moment on
her pure profile. She was looking straight in
front of her, with her two hands resting upon
her lap. Her lips were slightly apart, and the
expression of her face seemed to demand an
answer to the question just asked.

"Perhaps," he suggested, with semi-comic
apology, '* it requires more than I possess."

I should think it does," she said, in a
bantering tone. Then she added, quite seriously,
It is very good of you to interest yourself so
much in Tom. We were very glad to see him."



The extreme conventionality of her remark
conveyed to him exactly the opposite meaning
to that which she intended. He thought that
it was assumed, whereas it was very natural.

He is much better for the change ; I
see a great improvement in his appearance,"
he observed, carelessly, while he attempted to
introduce the upper button of his glove into
its hole.

Yes," she answered, " I think he is better.
Goldheath has done him good."

He deliberately turned and looked into her
face. She bore the scrutiny without changing
countenance, but her eyes were a trifle fixed
in their expression, while her chin was thrust
forward. It was a wonderful thing how well
he knew her.

Elma," he said, in a voice of which the
softness would have made his fortune upon the
stage, had he not found a better use for it ;
"Elma, I am afraid I am an old muddle.
I have done something stupid. Do you not
know me well enough to tell me what it is ?
Surely it is enough to say that we clambered



together on to this same sofa twenty years ago.
We ran about in these same old passages hand
in hand, and there was nothing between us
then. Did my letter come inopportunely, or
has it vexed you ? Or do you think that I
should have minded my business, and allowed
Tom to manage his, or mismanage it, as he
thought fit?"

** No," she protested, " I thought nothing of
that sort. I was glad to get your letter, and
no one has seen it — no one saw it — but myself."

"Then you did not want Tom at Goldheath
just now? I forced him upon you at a wrong
time."

Not at all. No . but "

She stopped with a little awkward laugh.
She was slowly twining and intertwining her
gloved fingers, and she swayed a little away
from him as if to get farther from a primitive
influence which was becoming too strong for her.

But what ? " he asked, in a measured
voice, which seemed to be the result of some
effort over himself.

There was a pause of some moments. The


Lancers were in full swing down-stairs, so that
the upper part of the house was theirs alone.
The music was almost overwhelmed by the
shuffling of feet and the buzz of merrily raised
voices.

Oh — nothing," she said, suddenly throwing
herself back in the seat, and looking at him
with a determined little smile full of defiance.

That is right," he said, calmly, " don't tell
me. It is much better not. There is nothing
that one regrets sooner, and more, than unwilling
confidences. There are so many things
which are better left untold. This is one of
them, no doubt. Some day you will abuse me
for having been weak for a moment. I should
not have tried to make you tell me."

He spoke rapidly and with evident relief, as
if some hidden danger had just been averted.
But he could not divert his thoughts at once
from the question, and sought to excuse himself
for the blunder which he knew nothing of.

I cannot always understand Tom," he said,
tentatively, "he is so variable. At times he
is quite serious and amenable to reason, and



suddenly he will change — laughs at everything,
and is apparently perfectly reckless of consequences."


*you mean," she suggested, "that he does
not dream of misconstruction or deliberate misconception.
He never thinks that people may
either heedlessly or purposely put his actions
in such a light as to render their appearance
much worse than it should be."

Crozier knew now that she had heard something
of what Syra had reported as the current
gossip of St. Antony's. It was easy enough
to trace this, in imagination, from Walter
Varden to Holdsworth, and from Holdsworth,
either directly or indirectly, to Elma. The
story would most assuredly not have lost weight
in transmission, so he faced it squarely, as was
his wont.

You must not," he said, " on that very
account believe all that you hear. People are
so apt to add a few graphic touches to stories
that pass through their hands. In this matter,
Elma, you must believe me before any one else —
you have no other course but this. Tom is



as good and upright and as true a gentleman
as any man in this house. Some people
are beyond the influence of association, and I
think he is one of them. He can associate
with . . . shady characters, let us call them, and
never be the worse for it. But what I do
not understand is why he does it. These men
are no companions for him. I am certain he
despises them, and yet he deliberately chooses
them for his friends. He knows that I could
help him to become acquainted with a better
class of men altogether — intellectual fellows,
who are doing good in the world both for
themselves and others ; but he prefers St.
Antony's students and their hangers-on. It
would almost seem as if for some deliberate
purpose he were misrepresenting himself."

And other people," added Elma, with gentle
significance.

He looked at her with a slow, grave smile.
She raised her eyes to his, and there was a faint
note of warning in her voice as she repeated the
words —

"And other people."



He could not pretend to mistake her meaning,
and he was chivalrous enough to resist the
temptation of compelling her to make it more
obvious.

Yes," he murmured, indifferently, " I suppose
so." And with raised eyebrows signified that
it did not matter much.

You think," she asked, " that it does not
matter ? "

Not much," was the reply, " and not at all
to Tom. It was of him that we were speaking."

She ignored this broad hint.

It does matter," she said gravely. *' It
matters a great deal to every man, however
independent and . and unselfish he may be."

Then you did not believe it ? " he inquired,
rashly.

"It . . . ?" she echoed, interrogatively.

What you heard," he explained.

She reflected for some moments, recalling all
that had passed between them on this subject.
Then she turned her head towards him with a
pretty little inquisitorial air, keeping her eyes,
however, fixed upon the carpet.



How do you know that I have heard
anything ? "

I foresaw that you would. Certain gossip
had, I found some time ago, got into a channel
which would ultimately lead it to you."

And you made no attempt to stop it ? "

*^ No — that would have made matters worse."

She studied the flowers painted on her fan
with critical interest for a moment, and without
ceasing her contemplation said, in an even,
measured way —

It may be of some small interest to you to
learn that I believed — nothing."

Thank you."

'tell me," she said presently, as if reading
the words upon the painted silk ; " tell me —
that is, if you wish to — who was the person who
suddenly impressed upon you the fact that you
were more or less responsible for Tom ? "

'' Syra."

A little nod, almost imperceptible, betrayed
to Crozier that his companion's suspicions had
been confirmed.

"I do not understand Syra."


'' I do not imagine that Syra understands
herself," he replied, guardedly.

She half turned her head towards him, and her
lips were ready parted with a question, when
she seemed to recollect herself, and with an
unconscious assumption of maidenly dignity she
closed her fan slowly and carefully.

I wish," she exclaimed, with a little sigh,
*' that Tom would assume the responsibilities of
human life. I am sure that he is very clever.
He could be a great artist if only he set his heart
upon it. There is nothing so discouraging and
so sad as to see people miss success ; to see it
within their grasp, and yet to see them fail for
some reason, for the lack of some little requisite."

There was a great movement upon the stairs
and in the hall beneath them. The next waltz
had begun.

** That," he said with a deprecating smile, ashe
stood up and offered her his arm, " is life —
to see success just in front and never to reach it."



THE Reckoning UP.

Wordsworth and Crozier met at the foot
of the stairs when the schottische — number
seventeen upon the programme — was fairly
started. For a moment they stood there — two
sturdy, typical Englishmen. One fair, blue-eyed
and merry ; the other darker, with crisp curled
hair, and thoughtful, deep set eyes of an observant
habit ; both straight and upright, with
ready hands, and a peculiar intrepid carriage of
the head.

My dance, I believe," said Holdsworth,
audaciously.

Crozier nodded his head with a faint smile,
and looked round him slowly. They were
practically alone in that house full of people,



the stairs being only used for a resting-place
during the crush between the dances.

'' Let us sit down," said the singer, indicating
the bottom step.

And so they sat there with elevated knees
held apart, and clasped hands between, in a
similarity of pose which was remarkable.

Beneath his lowered lashes Holdsworth glanced
furtively at his companion, waiting.

I have news for you, Holdsworth," said the
singer, after a moment.

The sailor clasped his broad hand round his
beard, making the golden hair rustle.

Something disagreeable, I bet," he said, with
assumed indifference.

*' I do not know . . . whether it will prove
disagreeable or not. It is the news of a death."

A death ! " echoed Holdsworth. '' Emily
Garland ? " he added interrogatively, after a
pause.

Yes."

Holdsworth remained silent for some moments.
Then he heaved a sigh — the easy light sigh of
an utterly selfish man.



She always was delicate," he remarked in a
resigned spirit, which was almost ludicrous.

Crozier turned deliberately and looked at
him as one looks at a curious and rare
insect.

She died of consumption," he said.'

"Yes," answered the other in the same cool
way, "it was in the family."

Crozier rose from his seat. He did not even
take the trouble to show his disgust.

That is my news," he said, curtly. He was
about to move away when he looked down at his
companion, and their eyes met. Then he stayed.
Holdsworth's face was haggard. It was no longer
the face of a reckless ne'er-do-weel, devoid of
scruple, free from remorse. In a moment the
features had changed. He who sat there and
looked up into Crozier's strong, peaceful face was
a hunted man, with haggard, scared, weary eyes,
the victim of persistent ill-fortune. The singer
had a strong man's true softness of heart. He
had seen that look on the sailor's face before, and
had never yet turned away from it. He now
stood at the foot of the stairs with his hand upon



the oak balustrade — simply stood there and said
nothing; but his presence had a comforting sense
of sympathy and reliability such as draws us to
certain persons in time of trouble.

The gay, rattling music rang in their ears ;
beneath their feet the floor vibrated incessantly.

At last Holds worth spoke in a low, unsteady
voice.

When you first told me that you had . . .
helped her," he said, '* I was jealous of you. I
don't believe I even said thank you. Or perhaps
you would not let me do so."

The last words were uttered with a faint
bitterness, but Crozier showed no sign of having
heard them.

I am not going to say it now. You need not
go away," continued the sailor, ^*I know better
than to offer thanks to you. But I want to
reckon up with you."

He took his programme from his pocket and
laid it upon his knee. Then he tore the pencil
away from the card and began writing. In the
dim light of the shaded lamp, at the foot of the
broad old staircase, a strange transaction took



place while the jerky schottische music rang
through the house.

Five years and six months," said Holdsworth,
slowly writing as he spoke. " That is five years
and a half at — what ? What did you allow her ? "

Seventy pounds a year," answered Crozier,
betraying no surprise.

Three hundred and fifty — three hundred and
eighty-five pounds"' calculated the sailor aloud.
*' I shall pay you that, Crozier, some day."

He tore the dainty little card in two and
looked up, programme-pencil in hand.

Will you take an I U ? "

''No."

Holdsworth did not press the point. He
looked at the pencil figures again, to make sure
that there was no mistake, and returned the two
pieces of polished pasteboard to his waistcoat-pocket.


"Three hundred and eighty-five pounds," he
repeated in a business-like manner ; " I shall not
forget the amount."

It was the price of a ruined human existence
not much after all, and probably more than it



was worth; but he did not seem to think of
that.

"Three hundred and eighty-five pounds,"
confirmed the singer.

Holdsworth stood up, but neither moved away.

I suppose you will let me pay it," he said,
defiantly.

'* Oh yes," replied the possessor of an annual
income of over three thousand pounds, " 1 will
let you pay it."

This was justice indeed. The affair was thus
arranged ; the last apparent obligation put into
a fair way of settlement, and there seemed to be
nothing more to say. Crozier made a little movement
towards the dancing-room, but the sailor
detained him by a slight jerk of the head.

In case," he said, with simulated cynicism
(his eyes were dull with anguish while he spoke)
"in case there is any misconception in your
mind as to past events, I may as well tell you
that I alone was to blame. I alone was the cause
of Emily Garland's leaving her home and going
to the bad."

Yes ; I suppose so " — with a certain cool

VOL. II. 97 24

cruelty which was most certainly founded upon
the past, for it was totally unlike Samuel
Crozier.

"Yes," continued the sailor, reflectively, "I
suppose you know that I ruined her. But,
Crozier, I did not do it deliberately, remember
that. I was led away . . . perhaps she was a
little bit to blame. I am such a beastly impulsive
fellow, you know, and act on the spur
of the moment, leaving regret till afterwards."

"Well," said Crozier, "I wouldn't think too
much about it now. It is finished and done
with, and there is no good to be got out of
attempting to fix the blame upon any one in
particular."

Holdsworth stood in front of the singer,
leaning against the wall. He was watching his
face speculatively.

I wonder," he said presently, " if you did
right in keeping us apart. It was a great
responsibility, Crozier."

"Yes," was the answer, "it was. But there
is nothing so despicable on earth as the man
who tries to get through life without incurring



responsibility. Despite what has happened, I
still think that you were better apart."

"You mean that she was better apart from
me."

The implacable Crozier nodded his head in
acquiescence. It was an unfortunate fact that
Holds worth divined his former officer's thoughts
concerning himself with remarkable accuracy,
and Crozier was too straightforward a man to
deny them.

I wish, Crozier," continued the sailor, " that
I could understand you a little better. I wish I
could understand why you have done all that
you have done and tried for me." He took the
half-programme from his pocket and glanced at
the pencil figures, hard and black upon the
polished surface of the card. " I don't think,"
he continued, " that it ought to finish up with
this ! "

He held out the card so that the figures were
visible to his companion.

On the contrary," said Crozier, coolly, " I
do not see what better ending could come about.
It is a settlement in full, is it not 1 "



Holds worth shrugged his shoulders impatiently.


"No," he said, curtly, 'rit is not."

I think we had better consider it so," said
Crozier, moving away. The music had ceased,
and the dancers were already crowding out of
the hot room into the passage.

Holdsworth followed, and they walked side
by side down the broad corridor towards a
group of mutual acquaintances.

'' By God, Crozier," whispered the sailor, with
an incredulous wonder in his voice, " you area
hard man ! ''

The singer turned towards him with a faint,
almost apologetic smile.

'' I'm afraid you are right," he said. And
they joined the merry party, where Tom Valliant
and the squire were laughing at each other.



FOREWARNED.

DESPITE Crozier's tirades against the degeneration
of musical taste, he gathered a
certain amount of enjoyment from the first nights
at which his appearance was necessary. He had
undertaken the musical criticism of a London
weekly paper and two provincial journals because
their editors had asked him to do so, and at a
time when the monthly cheque for " literary
contributions " was welcome. Now in his affluence
he intended to continue it for its own sake.
The love of criticizing is deeply planted in every
man's soul, and Crozier wrote in a deliberate
and straightforward style, which not only carried
weight with it, but conveyed a sense of earnestness
and an unusual freedom from personal



consideration or bias of any description. About
the " operas - bouffes " and *' operas - comiques"
which at certain intervals carry all better
musical taste before them, he wrote curtly and
descriptively, but not with open criticism.
Public opinion was against him, and he had
neither the power nor the energy to attempt its
education into better channels. It was after alla
mere matter of taste. The British public liked
its music thin and tawdry, served up with a
great show of tinsel, and a still greater display
of shapely limbs. '' Soil ! " It was no affair of
Samuel Crozier s.

To Syra he grumbled occasionally in a semi-bantering
way — to a mere barmaid ! It is to
be feared, however, that this singer and critic
was hopelessly Bohemian in those days. He
even treated her as if she were a woman, with a
woman's instinctive good taste ; sometimes he
actually went so outrageously far as to treat her
and speak to her as if she were a lady.

It was with some feeling of pleasant
anticipation, therefore, that he called a cab
one evening in March and drove to a new



theatre in the West End. The excitement in
dramatic and artistic circles anent this new
venture had been intense for some time. The
building itself was as gorgeous as masonry
without and gold-leaf within could well make it,
and of course its stao;e was constructed with a
strict regard to the contingencies of comic opera.
The house was to be warmed by an entertainment
of this description, got up with a due regard to
cheap usefulness and the newest slang.

At the side of the stalls there was a kind of
lounge, or drawing-room, where the occupants
of those luxurious seats could retire between the
acts to stand about and meet their friends without
being actually compelled to leave the theatre.
It was here that Crozier, on entering, met several
acquaintances and friends. These men were
mostly brother-critics, and they returned later
to the same spot to discuss their verdict upon
the performance.

The news of Sam Crozier's good fortune was
still fresh, and he was sufficiently a favourite to
call down real and hearty congratulations from
all who knew him.



"Here comes Croesus !" said one man, gravely
the correspondent of a comic American journal.

So he is," said another, who wrote musical
criticism for a religious publication, and had,
strictly speaking, no business in the theatre at
all. " Let us try and borrow money from him —
eh, Sam ? I suppose all your friends are doing
that now."

'' Trying . . . Yes ! " answered Crozier, as he
shook hands all round with his vague, genial
smile.

I congratulate you, Crozier," said a means
man, who wore spectacles, coming
forward with a thin delicate hand outstretched.
I congratulate you from the bottom of my
heart. I suppose now I may look forward to
being appointed musical and dramatic critic to
the Daily Intelligence which is the aim of my
life. For years I have waited and prayed for
your death. I have hung about concert-halls
in order to watch you take your high notes, and
I have even consulted eminent medical men as
to whether they have ever heard of a brute,

with a constitution like a camel, breaking a



blood-vessel on F sharp ! This, however, does as
well, so we will say nothing more about the
weary years of waiting."

Some of the listeners joined in Crozier's easy
laugh, and most of them smiled, but the man
who had spoken never changed countenance.
He looked gravely round him through his large
spectacles, and walked away to greet a friend.
He rarely spoke seriously — this eccentric genius
but he never smiled.

At this moment the orchestra struck up a
lively introduction, and there was a general
move. The critics were placed within reach of
each other, and some of them composed themselves
to quiet slumber at once, while the
younger members of the fraternity fumbled for
their pencils, with just sufficient ostentation to
call the attention of any lady who happened to
be looking in their direction.

Crozier, who was without pencil or note-book,
gave his usual placidly earnest attention to the
music. He had a singular habit of looking
straight in front of him in a theatre, which arose
doubtless from the fact that his face was well



known among frequenters of first nights and
lovers of music. If he looked round, the action
entailed greeting acquaintances who interested
him little, or it would be received by nudges
and suppressed whispers which in no way
gratified him, flattering though it might be.

During the first act he scarcely removed his
eyes from the stage, and at the end of it he
entered into a deep discussion with a friend
occupying the next stall, who advocated comic
opera as being within the understanding of the
people. He therefore had as yet scarcely looked
round the theatre. While the understanding of
the people was still in dispute, a young man
made his way along between the knees of grumbling
old gentlemen and stonily staring dowagers,
with a view of occupying the seat on Crozier's
left hand, which was empty. This individual
was he who had first addressed the singer on his
entrance.

He took the vacant chair, and presently raised
his glasses to his eyes. The glasses were directed
towards a box somewhat high up upon the right
of the stage, much to the contentment of a



be diamond lady occupying the same ; but time
critic's eyes, instead of looking through the
lenses, were directed in the shadow of his hand
to the " lounge " where he had first met Crozier.
There were many gentlemen standing there with
due solemnity and appreciation of their own
shirt-fronts, and a few ladies examining the
decorations.

*' Sam," said the young fellow, without lowering
his circulars, " what have you been up to ? ''

Crozier accorded him his attention with an
anticipatory smile. Despite a certain ring of
gravity in the speaker's tone, he could only
conclude that the comprehensive question was
the beginning of a joke.

^' What have I been up to ? " he repeated.
'' Let me see. Nothing criminal within the last
week, I think."

The young fellow laid his opera-glasses on his
knees, and turned sideways in his seat, crossing
his legs and leaning his arm upon the cushioned
back of the stall,

Of course," he said, *' it is no business of
mine ; but I happened to be looking round the



place just now, and I saw two fellows standing
in the gangway behind the upper boxes. There
was nothing at all noticeable in them beyond
the fact that they were looking at you ; in fact
one of them was pointing you out to the other. I
watched them, and there was something sneaks
and disagreeable in their movements which I
didn't like at all. Don't look in that direction
just yet ; but they are now standing in the little
salon ' place, where we all met to-night."

Crozier scratched his strong chin thoughtfully
with one finger.

"It is a funny business," he said; ''I don't
remember committing any crime lately. I
expect they're secretaries of charity organization
societies, who have been readings the Illustrated
London News, and want to fix me for an annual
subscription or so."

The correspondent of the theological paper
was not by any means a serious young man, but
he took this incident very gravely.

"It is no joke," he said, "to be taken for
some one else in some cases. Of course there
are plenty of us here to-night to prove your



identity ; but I have a wholesome dread of
the law."

At this moment the curtain rose, and Crozier
took the opportunity of glancing towards the
spot indicated by his companion. The two men
were certainly there, standing modestly in a
dark corner, but rendered conspicuous by their
rough top-coats amidst the black-clad pleasures


I admire the police very much," he said
pleasantly to his companion as he settled himself
to face the stage, " in the abstract."

At the end of the act he leant forward to seek
his hat beneath the seat.

'' What are you going to do ? " asked his
companion.

I am going out — at least, I am going to the
foyer. These fellows will finish by making me
conspicuous, which for a man of my shy and
retiring nature is a painful prospect."

The young journalist did not seem to take the
matter in quite such a placid spirit.

What ! — are you going to speak to them ? "
he asked.



'' No ; but I am going to stand quite close to
them. They would like a good look at me, I
am sure."

Well, don't let us have a scenes

Crozier laughed reassuringly.

I have never taken even a minor part in a
scene yet. This is hardly the place to make a
debut'' he said. '* Come along and stand near
me ; we will talk weather while they walk round
us and take notes. Privately, Soames, I believe
it is you they are after."

And he rose. In every detail he carried out
his threat, even to discussing the weather.

The two men bore it for some moments in
silence, then one made a step forward, and without
touching Crozier, stood beside him. Soames,
the newspaper correspondent, was in front of
him, looking up from his inferior height into the
singer's face.

George Shenstone," said the man, in a clear
undertone ; " George Shenstone, unless I'm
mistaken."

Crozier's finger and thumb had been resting
in his waistcoat-pocket, and he now withdrew



them from it with a card which he handed
unostentatiously to the detective. It was all
done so quietly and indifferently by both men,
that no one who did not actually hear their
words would have thought that any communication
had passed between them ; but Soames
noticed that at the mention of the words
George Shenstone," an expression of mingled
surprise and anxiety passed across the singer s face.

No, I am not George Shenstone," he replied,
as he gave the card. '' That is my name, and
there are twenty men within call who will vouch
for it."

The man glanced at the card, and gave it
back immediately.

'' I thought we were on the wrong track," he
said, apologetically. " I ought to have remembered
your face before. There is a photograph of you
in a music-publisher's shop in Oxford Street."

Indeed."

"I must apologize," continued the detective,
simply ; " it was very clumsy of me."

"Not at all," answered Crozier, in a constrained
tone, which was unlike him.

Ill

The detective glanced in a keenly questioning
manner at his impassive face, and then moved
away quietly without saying anything more.
He called his companion with a mere movement
of the eyebrows, and they passed out of the
auditorium together.

Crozier did not move until the swinging-door
had closed behind them.

*' Soames," he said, " don't say anything about
this. I believe I know something of the fellow
they are after — a poor devil of a blue-jacket, who
got sick of the sea before his time was up, and
deserted. Not much of a crime in times of peace."

All right ! " answered the journalist ; '' I will
keep quiet."

And it is worth noting that he did so.

Then they got separated, and Crozier presently
went back to the stalls. He did not, however,
return to his own, but occupied for a few minutes
a vacant chair next the melancholy gentleman
who so openly coveted his post on the staff of
the Bailie Intelligence.

I say, Watson," he said, when he was seated,
have you got a telegram-form ? "



Never am without one, my friend," replied
the old stager.

After a short search he handed Crozier the
required paper, and discreetly looked the other
way while the singer wrote.

The gist of the message was hardly calculated
to be read, however, at once by a casual observer
with much edification.

I was to-day mistaken for a seaman, late
Willow-wrens who is wanted. — S. C."

This ambiguous and pointless news was addressed
to William Holdsworth, Heath End,
Goldheath ; and a few minutes after it was
written a commissionaire hurried to the General
Post Office from whence it was despatched.

In the mean time the play was progressing
happily enough, and the critics were beginning
to yawn. At the end of the third act these
gentlemen met in the open space at the side of
the stalls and talked over their verdict, after
which it is a painful duty to record that some of
them went home.

Crozier, however, stayed to the end, as was his
wont. When at length the curtain fell he passed

VOL. II. 113 25

out of the theatre alone, and at the door found
the detective who had spoken to him earlier in
the evening. There was no sign of his companion.
The man dropped alongside of him when he
had penetrated through the crowd and fell into
step.

Excuse me, Mr. Crozier," he said, *' excuse
me troubling you again, but we have to suppress
our own inclinations very often in my profession,
and I can assure you that it is quite against my
will."

The singer laughed as he lighted his cigar.
*' Oh," he answered, " pray don't apologize.
I suppose it is the duty of every honest citizen
to assist the cause of justice."

The disciple of justice did not exactly seize
with avidity upon this theory. He contented
himself with murmuring something to the effect
that the general impression was of that nature.

*' I have just recollected, sir," he continued ina
business-like tone, *' that you were once in Her
Majesty's Navy — did you ever serve on board
the Willow-wren ? "

The question, asked wiMi a certain doubtfulness


as if the event were very unlikely, might have
disconcerted any one totally unprepared for it.

Yes," answered Crozier, quite naturally, '' I
served seven years on board of her."

'' Then this man Shenstone would be on board
at the same time as you."

The singer turned slowly and deliberately.
The man, who was slightly above him in height,
was looking at him, and their eyes met.

Indeed," said the singer, with an expression
on his quiet face which can only be described as
dense.

Yes," remarked the man vaguely, " I believe
he would." He could not make out that density,
and something in the ex-officer's manner made
him feel uncomfortable, as if he were prying
into the affairs of a gentleman with whom he
had no business.

Well," he added with some hesitation, after
they had walked a short distance in silence, " I
can only apologize again, sir, for having troubled

you."

Not at all," said Crozier, looking straight in
front of him.



'' Good night, sir."

Good night."

The detective dropped behind and presently
crossed the road, while Crozier walked on smoking
restful.

Got rid of him," he murmured between the
puffs with a certain satisfaction.

As he walked on through the crowd,
beneath the brilliant lamps, amidst the roar
and hubbub of midnight life in the Strand, he
reflected as quietly and collectedly as if he had
been alone in some deserted country lane, or
keeping the middle watch on board the Willoic-
wren.

This power of self absorption was no special
possession of his. It is a growth of the pavement
— that stony place where many vices and
few virtues flourish — and we others, we men who
trot the pavement, soon acquire it. AYe soon
learn to pass by Vice and touch elbows with it,
unheeding, uncontaminated, and probably unmoved
by pity. But Virtue, alas ! we also gaze at
vaguely and admire it not, scarcely taking the
trouble to distinguish it. Neither have the power



of affecting our inward tliouo^lits, of touching;
that individuality which, although hidden in
city-folks (who sooner or later find the necessity
of passing through existence with the crowd,
acting as the crowd has acted), is there as strongly
as in country-bred people who show their eccentricities
to all the world. It is assuredly a
special foresight of Providence, in view of overcrowded
cities, that, if a man only have the goal
in sight, he can steer as straight a course for it
amidst a seething hive of vicious humanity as ina
fair and virtuous hamlet.

Samuel Crozier never thought much in an
abstract fashion of the course that he was steering.
Indeed he rarely gave himself time to
think at all — never sat idly smoking over a
smouldering fire — never dreamt day-dreams over
a closed book. When not actually and actively
employed he was reading, and there were few
men in London with a wider knowledge of
general literature. When his hands alone were
employed he sang in an undertone to himself.
With no fuss or busy show he led an active
life. Of course he might have made it a more



profitable one, but . . . you and 1 . . . what of
ours ? What of all the thousand lives around us
of which we knows something and guess at more ?
He might have worked harder at his adopted
profession — might have made more of the great
gift (one of the greatest vouchsafed to men)
that God had placed within his lips ; but who
among us does make the best of his opportunities ?
If we did so invariably, human life would not be
human life at all, and the lord of creation would
not be the one unfinished, unsatisfactory bungle
in an otherwise perfect work.

As he walked home from the theatre, and after
a little sigh of relief directed towards the departing
detective, Crozier allowed himself to
reflect — not upon Wrong and Right and such
things — but upon his own recent action as
regarded William Holdsworth. Of course he
had done wrong ; there could be no doubt
about that ; but he smoked serenely, and to j edge
from the expression of his face, was fully prepared
to go on doing wrong. Such indeed was
the case. He had warned the run-away sailor,
and if further aid was needed, he was in an



indefinite way prepared to render it — not from
friendship towards the unsatisfactory fellow, but
because there existed between them the mystic
tie of a mutual affection. One name there was
in either heart enshrined in the halo of an old
association — the name of Wilhw-ioren, — and
for the sake of that name an upright man
willingly frustrated the cause of justice, and
rendered a great service to a shipmate, who
would never possess the means, nor be actuated
by the desire, to return it. While he reflected,
there arose before his mind's eye the upright
form of a genial, white-haired old sailor — his
former chief — a man whose heart and soul were
wrapped up in the Wllloio-ivren, and who boasted
in a harmless lovable way that her good name
had never been drao:o:ed through court-martial
or newspaper trial.

'eyes," muttered the ex-officer, '' Holdsworth
must get away, for the sake of the old ship."



FOR THE ship's SAKE.

TT liappsn^d that Crozier reached his rooms
-■- rather earlier that usual in the evenings
following the theatre episode. He had been
out several nights in succession, and was tired ;
but the fatal habit of keeping late hours was
strong upon him, and at eleven o'clock he took
a book, lighted his pipe, and established himself
in his deep arm-chair to enjoy a quiet hour.

Hardly was he seated when a light footstep
beneath his window caused him to look up.
The sound of it in some way sus^crested flight.
It seemed as if some one had fled to Lime Court,
and, having no knowledge of the locality, was
now standing; beneath the window with the

double purpose of ascertaining whether the pursuer



were still following, and of observing the
possible exits in case of necessity.

The very lightness of the step attracted
Crozier's attention. The ordinary malefactor is
not lio'ht- footed. A chase down the darker
streets and alleys leading from the Strand is
of nightly occurrence, but he who leads it rarely
runs lightly. He is generally a pickpocket, with
shocking bad boots several sizes too large for
him. The scientific burglar is a heavy-footed
man, but he counteracts this natural defect by
a pair of list slippers, which make no sound at
all. Lightness of tread is a thing that cannot
be acquired ; we inherit it from gentle ancestor,
or we walk heavily. He whose father or grandfather
once wore hob-nailed boots will walk as if
those excellent pedal protectors were bound to
his own ankles, and only a few generations shod
in thinner leather will eradicate the peculiarity.
Without thinking much of these things in a
general way, the singer allowed his attention to
wander from his book, and he sat listening ina
semi-indifferent way for the next movement
of those light feet.



Suddenly there arose in the silence a sound
which made the placid singer jump to his feet,
and throw his book upon the table without
staying to mark the place. This sound was
a whistle, low and melodious without being
actually furtive. It might have been the call
of one boy to another in a game of hide-and-seek,
a pastime much in vogue among the youths
of the neighbourhood, and to which the intricacies
of the Temple lent additional charms. Only a
naval man would have recognized that the
whistle was the boatswain's call of " all hands
on deck."

While Crozier stood listening the call was
repeated.

Holdsworth ! " he muttered. " What a fool !
What an insane fool ! "

Then he ran lightly down-stairs and opened
the door. In the shadow of the lime tree, which
was weakly budding, stood a man looking round
him apprehensively.

Come in ! " said Crozier briefly.

The man came forward, ran lightly up the
steps and passed into the dimly-lighted passage.



He was breathless, and his weak mouth twitched
convulsively.

I did not know your number," he gasped,
but I knew it was Lime Court ! "

Crozier nodded his head and led the way
silently up-stairs. When they were in the room
and the door was closed, he spoke at length, and
there was a suggestion of tolerance in his voice
which his companion's quick ears did not fail to
catch.

What a fool you are, Holdsworth ! " he
said.

'that's it," exclaimed the other petulantly.
Hit a man when he is down ; stoop from the
heights of virtue, and shove a chap down the
hill. But I have no time, Crozier. to listen if
you are going to abuse me, which I suppose you
have a right to do. I'm in a beastly narrow
place, and somehow I've come to you. It isn't
the first time, God knows ! "

"No," agreed Crozier; "it isn't the first time.
But surely any one with a scrap of sense would
have known that it was simple foolery to come
to London after my telegram."



Your telegram," repeated the other ; " what
do you mean ? "

I telegraphed to you last night."

At Goldheath ? "

'' Yes."

I have been in London three days."

Ah," said Crozier, in a softer tone, " that is
a different matter. I beg your pardon. My
warning; missed fire."

At this moment some one walked sharply past
beneath the window. Holdsworth, who had ina
great degree regained his composure, changed
colour.

'' Listen ! " he whispered ; " who is that ? "

Then, for the first time, they looked into each
other's faces. In Holdsworth's eyes there was
an unpleasant glitter, which by some strange
influence was transmitted to Crozier's. The
singer's thoughtful face was quite transformed
ley it, and the change was hardly pleasant.
These two men had been in action together,
actually fighting side by side. Mere affairs of
a boat's crew these had been, in connection with
the suppression of Chinese piracy, but where a



man's life is concerned it matters little whether
the battle be a Waterloo or a skirmish. In
those few moments both recalled the half-forgotten
dangers they had shared in bygone
days, and perhaps Holdsworth benefited by
the recollection. The footsteps died away, and
both heaved a little sigh of relief.

There is no time to lose," said Holdsworth,
hurriedly ; '' listen to this. Yesterday morning
I was walking along a quiet street near Victoria
Station, when who should I meet, face to face,
but Jerome ? You remember him ; he was a
middy in your time, and the greatest fool onboard.
He recognized me at once, though I did
not give him credit for so much sense ; stopped
and held out his stick so that I could not
pass. * George Shenstone — A. B.,' he drawled,
in that confoundedly squeaky voice which used
to be nowhere in a breeze of wind. ' George
Shenstone, I think you're wanted.' I wasn't
going to be taken by a weak-kneed dandy like
Jerome, who is no more a sailor than those
sugar-tongs (yes, thanks, I will have a little
cold water), so I let out. I did not hit him in



the face ; only on the chest ; but I think I hit
hard ; then I sheered off."

Crozier took up an evening paper which lay
upon the table.

Yes," he said slowly, " you must have hit
hard, for you broke two of his ribs. There is
an account of it here. Luckily for you, Jerome
was too much injured to make his deposition, or
give a minute description of his assailant. They
fear some internal complication. There it is ;
you had better read it."

Holds worth took the newspaper and read the
short notice through once or twice.

"Just like my luck," he exclaimed, recklessly.
But he will be all right, never fear ; I didn't
hit him hard. Besides, he must have recovered
sufficiently to give particulars, because I was
tracked to Myra's to-night. I went in therewith
Yarden. Soon afterwards two fellows came
in and asked for a drink. That pretty girl there
Syra — served them in an ofi'-hand way, and
I saw the fellows glance uncomfortably around,
as if they felt a little out of their element. It
appears that all the frequenters of Myra's know

12G

each other more or less, and these two outsiders
were promptly recognized as such. When they
had left, the question arose as to who and what
they were ; and one fellow laughingly suggested
that they might be detectives. I laughed with
the rest, but I knew that he was right. I can
tell you, Crozier, it took me some time to makeup
my mind to go out of that door. When I
did go out — hanging on to Varden's arm like a
sailor's sweetheart — I looked up and down the
Street ; and in a doorway higher up the hill I
spotted the two men. We walked along as far
as Charing Cross, and I suppose they followed
us all the way. I only dared to turn my head
once, and then I saw them some way behind.
At Charing Cross Varden took a hansom. I got
round the corner, and made a bolt down Craven
Street, through that tunnel under the railway
station, and back into the Strand by the darkest
streets I could find. I have given them the slip,
but there is no time to be lost. What am I todo,
Crozier ? Tell me, for the sake of old times."
'soh," said the singer, 'rit is all right. Til
help you, but not for the sake of old times,



Holdsworth. I'll do it for the sake of the ship.
We don't Avant her name dragged through the
police-courts. These two men came to me last
night at the theatre. They mistook me for you,
and as soon as they were persuaded to the contrary
I wired to you at Goldheath to be on the
look-out, taking it for granted that you would
lie low there until the affair blew over. Of
course I did not know of this business of
Jerome's. I thought it was only the old question
of the unexpired service. Afterwards they
came back to me, apologized, and said that they
had discovered that I had been an officer onboard
the JFiUow-ivre?i, and told me that they
were seeking for you."

Holdsworth's confidence was returning. This
was undoubtedly the result of his companion's
cool readiness to assist him. He knew that
Crozier would carry out anything he undertook.

"And now," continued the singer, 'you must
get back to Goldheath. That is the safest place
for you. Every outlet from the kingdom is
watched, and a sailor cannot disguise himself when
he smells tar. They would spot you by the very



way you walked down the gangway to the boat-you
had better stay here to-night, and go down
by the first train tomorrow morning."

"Hush!" interrupted Holdsworth. "What
is that?"

There was no mistaking the official tread ;
and, moreover, other footsteps accompanied it.
Holdsworth reached out his hand towards the
gas, but his companion motioned him to leave
it.

It is all right," he whispered. " The curtains
are thick ; they cannot see that the gas is
alight."

Then turn it out and look through the
corner of the window," said Holdsworth.

Crozier obeyed him, and moved cautiously
across the dark room towards the window.

There is a light down-stairs in the passage,"
Holdsworth whispered hoarsely.

So there is in every passage in the court,"
replied Crozier, as he cautiously drew back the
curtain. " We are a dissipated lot ! Yes," he
continued, " there they are — two fellows in plain
clothes and a bobby."

VOL. II. 129 26

'swell then, I'm caught."

"Not yet. They have traced you as far as
here, by some means or other, but they must be
off the scent now. There is no place in London
like the Temple for leading people astray, especially
at night, when some of the passages are
barred, and others left open."

The murmur of suppressed voices reached the
ears of the two men as they stood in the dark
room, hardly breathing. Then Crozier closed
the curtain cautiously, and lighted the gas,
taking, however, the precaution of keeping it
low.

You cannot stay here, Holdsworth," he said.
"As soon as these fellows move you must make
a bolt for it."

'* I think," said the other deliberately, " that
I will go out and give myself up. It is not
worth getting you Id to a row."

Nevertheless he stood still beside the table,
and showed no sign of moving.

Eot ! " murmured Crozier, sweetly. He knew
William Holdsworth very well, and rightly
judged that the argument would go no further.



*' Listen to me," he continued in a business-like
way. "As soon as these fellows move we will
sro out together. I have an old ulster which
you can wear, and you may as well take one
of my hats. We will go out arm-in-arm, and
simply brazen it out. If the fellows see through
it, make a fight for it and run ; I will make a
fight, and let them collar me. It is very dark
all about here, and they will not be able to tell
one from the other. Now pay great attention to
this — wait, I will draw you a chart, because it is
complicated. There are four outlets from Lime
Court. This is the one you must take. It
divides about ten yards down. The alley to the
right is the one you must follow, but don't go
straight ahead ; turn sharp to the right as soon
as you get into it. It looks almost like a doorway,
but it is really a passage, which curves
round and takes you into a narrow street near
the embankment. Go across Blackfriars Bridge,
make your way along Southwark Street, and
get into London Bridge Station just in time to
miss the last train to somewhere or other, it does
not much matter where. Then go to the Bridge



House Hotel to sleep, and take care to let everybody
know that you have missed the last train,
which will account for the absence of luororacre.
Go down to Goldheath by the first train tomorrow
morning. Do you understand ? "

Holdsworth studied the roughly-drawn chart
for a moment.

"Yes," he said, eagerly, ''I understand; and
by God, Crozier, if I get out of this I'll . . ."

All right," interrupted Crozier, almost
roughly, "I know all about that."

Holdsworth shrugged his shoulders, and laughed
bitterly.

I see you have not changed," he said.
There is a suspicion of the quarter-deck about
you still."

But Crozier was not listening. He had passed
through the curtained doorway into his bedroom,
and presently he returned carrying a large coat
and a hat.

Here you are," he said. " Put that ulster
on, and the hat. Nothing changes a man's appearance
so much as another fellow's hat. I
will wear yours," he continued, after a pause,



*' especially as I notice that it is a superior article
to my own."

In a few moments Holdsworth was ready.
His companion slipped on a top coat, and then
turned out the gas. He approached the window,
and drew aside the curtain.

They have gone," he said. " No doubt they
have dispersed to watch the exits, which is all
the better. Turn up the gas, and let me have
a look at you."

A short survey apparently satisfied him.

"Yes," he said, "you will do splendidly.
And now cigars, and then we will be complete.
Cigars and a swagger."

He handed the box towards Holdsworth across
the table and helped himself. He struck a match,
and lighted up before handing the match to his
companion. Instead of taking it, Holdsworth
leant forward with the cigar between his lips ;
and had either man been in the least nervous it
would have been impossible to hide a slight
tremble of hand or lip. But cigar and match
were alike steady, and the tobacco glowed.
Then Holdsworth looked up, and their eyes met.



Both were smiling, as if they took a youthful
pleasure in seeking danger for its own sake.
That passing smile illuminated by a flickering
wax match, framed in a halo of cigar smoke,
was the recollection that each carried of the
other through the rest of his life, for they never
looked into each other's face again. Crozier
threw the match into the fireplace, and led the
way towards the door.

"By the way," he said on the stairs, 'have
you enough money ? "

Yes, thanks," was the reply. *' Fortunately
I got a cheque cashed yesterday, so I need not
borrow anything from you. I owe you a good
deal, Crozier, that I can never pay, but if some
day you get a cheque for three hundred and
eighty-five pounds, pay it into your bank, and
remember that the remainder of my debt is not
quite forgotten."

Holdsworth was under the warming influence
of real honest gratitude, and it was rather annoying
not to be able to express it. He did not
dare to do more than hint at it in this way, and

the singer gave him no encouragement. His



faith in Holds worth's gratitude was dead, and it
could never now be revived.

Five years and a half," continued the fugitive,
" at seventy, is three hundred and eighty-five
pounds. Some day I will pay you ! "

Better leave it as it is ! " grumbled Crozier.
His hand was on the latch, and turning, he
looked sharply at his companion. " Are you
ready ? " he inquired. " As soon as we are
outside take my arm, and try to walk differently
from yourself; put on a swagger, and hang your
head. Don't let them see that you've been
drilled."

Then he opened the door, and they passed
out. It was a clear dark night with no moon.
In the open country the reflection of the stars
might have illuminated the earth to some small
extent, but in the narrow passages and courts
of the Temple the darkness was profound. With
linked arms they went down the steps together,
and crossed the court. There was a man standing
idly at the exit by which they intended to
pass. He appeared to be searching for a match
wherewith to light his pipe. As they passed



the lime tree, Holdsworth committed a slight
error by falling into step in a practised manner
with his companion.

The man struck a match at the precise moment
when they passed him, and guarding it within
his half closed hands, managed very cleverly to
throw the light upon their faces, while apparently
having no other intention than that of
lighting his pipe. Holdsworth, however, who
was nearest to him, frustrated his design by
deliberately shielding his eyes with his hand as
if the light dazzled him.

"It's confoundedly dark," he said, at the same
time.

Crozier assented airily, and they passed on ;
but glancing back over his shoulder he saw the
man run across the court, doubtless with the
intention of calling a companion.

** Eun ! " whispered the singer. " Eun for
it!"

Side by side they sped through the narrow
passages, and presently emerged into a deserted
street.

Now," said Crozier, somewhat breathlessly',


we must walk a little. There are often policemen
about here, and we must not attract
attention."

Soon after he broke into a run again, and
guided his companion through a maze of narrow
and dirty streets. Occasionally they passed a
house that was lighted up, and from which the
throb of an engine suggested printing, which is
essentially a nocturnal industry in these hurried
times, but most of the buildings upon either side
of them were dark and deserted.

At length they arrived in a broad thoroughfare
through which a scanty traffic straggled.

"Here you are!" said Crozier. 'take a
hansom to London Bridge. I go this way. We
must not be seen together. Good-bye ! "

He turned to go at once, without waiting for
thanks, without taking his hand from his pocket ;
but Holds worth followed him.

Good-bye, Crozier," he said, in a painfully
concentrated voice, as he held his hand out so
that it was impossible to ignore it.

The singer shook hands quite simply and
naturally.



Good-bye," be repeated. " There is a ransom
at the other side of the road."

And be turned bis back and walked away
firmly. Presently be turned into Fleet Street,
and tbrouorb the more crowded thoroughfare
placidly made bis way. Around bim was vice
enough, and misery more than enough. Every
incarnation of both touched bim on either
side, brushing past or cringing after, but be
needed them not. This darker side of humanity
was no new thing to Samuel Crozier, and perhaps
be was after all a bard-hearted man. I cannot
judge bim. He hummed a tune to himself under
bis breath, and disregarded the story of the
woman at bis elbow wbo bad not eaten a bite
o' bread for four days. Yet be bad risked ibis
good name, disregarded bis obvious duty as a
late officer in ber Majesty's service, and openly
connived at the breaking of the law in order
to lighten one of these burthens ; for the
line of distinction between Holds worth wbo
drove away in a ransom, and the felon wbo
sneaked back to bis particular doorway clutching
the penny be bad earned by shutting the



cab-door was less marked than the former
thought.

Crozier seemed to be quite unconscious of
having wrought a little good, of having lifted
for a time at least the weight of misfortune that
crushed one life, out of the thousands upon which
the merry stars twinkled blithely that night — ■
lives which no optimist would dare to consider
worth the living. There was no smile of conscious
virtue on his face, no warmth of benevolence
in his heart. He merely walked on,
unobservant and indifferent, content and aimless,
while the half-drunken woman with the piteous
tale of starvation cursed him obscenely for his
hardness.



IMPULSE.

QJO William Wordsworth escaped the clutches
^ of the law. Early on the following morning;
he went down to Goldheath minus hmo^acre,
for which he wrote later. He walked home
across the heath, full of confidence, and blithe
as the birds in spring, for his heart was a poor
receptacle — care never nestled there long. His
plans were not yet formed, but he felt in a
vague way that England would not hold him.
The escape of the previous evening, the excitement
of those few minutes in Crozier s rooms,
followed by the chase through the narrow streets,
perhaps also the old associations awakened by
the sight of Crozier, old memories of adventure



recalled by the singer's voice, cool and steady as
it always was in time of peril, awakened within
him the semi-dormant spirit of restlessness.

This spirit was upon him now as he hurried
through the keen morning; air. But also the
influence of Samuel Crozier was with him still ;
the only influence that had ever remained with
him for an appreciable space of time ; an influence
exercised by no other man hitherto.

The run-away sailor was grateful, and he
imagined that his gratitude was called forth
only by the service rendered to him ten hours
before ; but it was not so. The debt he acknowledged
was that of a life-time ; the influence
that subjugated him had not been acquired ina
few minutes, by a single act ; it was the fruit
of many deeds, the result of a great effort ; and
it was the only good influence in William Holds-worth's
life. He carried it with him through
the days that were to come, and in all human
probability was a better and a happier man for
the burden of it.

But as he walked across the heath, his mind
was filled with another thought not totally



unconnected with Sam Crozier. The singer
had told him in very plain language that Elma
Valliant must not be molested by his attentions,
and now that the spirit of adventure had hold of
him (for it is like fever and ague, which may be
allayed but never killed), he knew that he did
not love her. In his strange capricious nature
there was a crooked desire at work which may
perhaps have led to this conclusion by reason of
the feeling that he was at liberty now to love
and woo her (Sam Crozier having no further
authority in the matter), and therefore the wish
to do so was no longer so strong. The incentive
of competition, or rather of pugnacity, no longer
urged him to give other men trouble for his own
amusement.

x\nd — in seeking to account for what followed
let us give him credit for good feeling, for a
real honest desire to repair harm done. We
cannot, or we do not, often give others credit
for the best motives ; — in fact we usually assign
the worst, with reason, you will say. Perhaps
it is so. But let us give William Holdsworth
the benefit of the doubt in this case ; let us



pretend for once to believe that there is a little
elementary, sedimentary good in human nature.
Of course his action was impulsive ; the words
he spoke to one who listened to them greedily
enough were dictated by a mere passing influence,
a flighty warmth of gratitude. But
impulsive good is better than no good at all.
Had he been given time to deliberate, it is probable
that a prudent reticence would have been
the result. But it happened that as he walked
home that morning, with the excitement of the
previous day still thrilling through his being,
with gratitude still warming his heart, and with
the singer's influence still upon him, he met
Elma Valliant. Not only did he meet her, but
circumstances threw him into her individual
society for some length of time.

Taking advantage of his absence Elma had
bethought herself of driving over to see old Mr.
and Mrs. Holdsworth, and had chosen this bright
cold morning to do so. Had she seen Willy
Holdsworth on the road in front of her it is
probable that she would have pulled up her
self-willed pony and turned him round ; but



this chance of avoiding him was not afforded
her. Her road ran at right angles to his, and
he rciiched the corner before she did, but the
sound of wheels made him turn, and the recognition
was mutual and instantaneous. There
was nothing for him to do but stand and wait
for her at the cross-roads ; there was nothing for
her but to drive on.

He raised his hat with a grave smile, and with
quick feminine instinct she gave a little sigh of
relief as she acknowledged his habitation. She
saw at once that a new humour was upon him — •
his mood leant neither towards love-making nor
merry-making. He was therefore not dangerous,
and might even be pleasant. His eyes were
steadier, and his erect carriage firmer, but
beyond these details there was something else
something: vaojue and indefinite, which rendered
him more manly than he had ever been
in her sight before.

They had not spoken since a certain evening
when events had occurred in a conservatory such
as may be of small account in a man's life, while
they leave a girl somewhat different, marking



her existence with an immovable milestone
which is almost a turning-point.

She drew up with a little smile quite free
from embarrassment, and held out her gauntleted
hand. I wonder if any of us will ever
quite understand a woman ! It seemed impossible
that the last time these two had met
he had made base use of his manly superiority
of strength to kiss her against her will. Yet she
remembered each detail — even to a crushed flower
and deranged lock of hair — better than he did, as
she smiled innocently into his face.

This is an inglorious way of returning to
the paternal roof," she said, lightly.

Yes," he answered, after the fashion of a man
who is speaking of one thing and thinking of
another ; " yes, they will be surprised to see me."

*' You have come earlier than you intended,
have you not?" she asked.

"Yes. Elma," he said, and there was a new
gravity in his voice which made her look
suddenly at him, instead of towards the pony.

"I thought so," she murmured, in a tone
which invited him to proceed.

VOL. II. 145 27

I am off again," lie said, moving restlessly
from one foot to the other ; " 1 cannot stand this
country-squire life any longer."

Elma stroked the back of her pony thoughtfully
with the end of the whip, but made no
comment.

'' I am glad we met," he added. " I wanted
to see you."

For a moment the girl was uneasy, then her
eyes met his, and she saw that there was no
cause for any such feeling. He made no attempt
to explain his outburst of passion on the last
occasion of their meeting, but simply ignored it.
This method is scarcely recommendable to young
men of impressionable hearts, although in this
exceptional case it was perhaps the best thing
Holdsworth could have done. But as a rule it
is very dangerous to ignore having once told a
woman that you loved her. Apologize — tell lies
make excuses — humble yourself, but do not
ignore it ! Whether she love you or not, she
will never forgive such a sin as that.

"I have something to tell you," he went onto
say, moving away a few steps, and laying his



hand upon the horse's broad back where the
whip had been a few moments before. *' Shall
I tell you now — on the king's highway — or shall
I wait till the inspiration goes from me and
never tell you at all ? " he asked, with a slight
smile in his blue eyes as they rested candidly
on her puzzled young face. She raised her
glance to his, meeting him kindly, svv^eetly,
inscrutably.

Perhaps you had better decide," she said
incisively, '^ so much depends upon what it is
that you have to tell me."

He stroked the sleek pony reflectively, then
without looking towards her he spoke with a
certain continuous deliberation which allowed
of no interruption.

"I do not know," he said, ^'what you have
heard about me — about my past life, I mean.
Probably a little truth, and a good many lies.
I don't want to know. But there are a few
things I should like you to hear before I go
away, because it often happens that the truth
is not so bad as uncontradicted exaggerations
which may be only half believed. I won't



trouble you with details. Many of them are
not pleasant, and some there are which are
better suppressed. People say, Elma, that there
is no such thing as bad luck. Never believe
that, never believe that a man has only himself
to blame for what comes to him ! There is
something else at work — something raising or
lowering his life, quite beyond his reach, quite
outside his power. Call it by what name you
like — Providence with a big P or luck with a
small 1 — the result is the same as far as our
lives are concerned. Mine has not been quite
a success, I suppose. In fact it has been an
utter failure." . . .

He laughed shortly, and defied her to contradict
him by a quaintly humorous glance
which was really somewhat pathetic.

** Is it not," she suggested, " rather premature
to give a judgment yet ? "

I doubt it," he replied, " unless luck changes."

With ready tact she avoided raising a discussion
respecting the much-maligned little
word, which he repeated so often with a certain
cynicism. "Whatever she may have thought, she



silently acquiesced in his theory that human
lives are laid out upon a fatalistic, immovable
plan which no earthly influence can alter.

I can honestly say," he continued, " without
thought of complaint or irreverence, that I have
had luck dead against me from the beginning.
Of course I have been to blame ; but really,
Elma, really and truly, on my word as . . . let
us say ' a gentleman ' just for once, I have had
consistent bad luck all through, and people soon
recognize an unlucky man. They won't help
him, and often they won't employ him. But
. . there has been one man. In all these
last ten years of steady progress downhill, I
have only passed one man who made a grab at
me. And he did more ; he came down a little,
and tried to haul me up again. Time after time
he succeeded, time after time I slipped again ;
but he never turned from me. He never lost
patience, and never, while our lives were thrown
together, gave up the attempt. But he grew
hard — hard and unmerciful — he lost faith in meat
last. Perhaps he is by nature what is called
a hard man. But I know that he spares himself



as little as he spares others. Things have been
bad ; Elma, I have been farther down the hill
than I like to think of when I am near you ; but
if it had not been for that man I should not
have been here now. I should not have had
the chance that I have before me now, of trying
my luck again. I was once a sailor ."

He stopped speaking. The reins which had
hitherto been lying loosely upon the pony's back
had suddenly been drawn tight. He glanced at
her, and saw a slight flush upon her cheeks.
Her features were too still to be quite natural.

"You have dressed who it is," he said slowly.

"Yes," she answered, looking past him across
the heath — " Sam Crozier."

How do you know ? " he asked sharply, with
a ring of emotion in his voice which was very
near akin to pain. " What made you guess ?
Surely he has not told you."

"No," she answered. "No. He . . . has told
me nothings. It was a mere on less."

But there must have been something — something
to make you guess " — suspiciously.

It never occurred to me before this moment


to think that you might have met before, but I
have always noticed some points of resemblance.
You hold yourselves in the same way, and . . . and
you both use your hands quite differently from
other men. I suppose it comes from having been
sailors."

We were shipmates' said Holdsworth, as if
that explained everything. " He has done more
for me and attempted more than any man on
earth ; and I suppose it is the natural consequence
that, now that it is too late, I would
sooner have Sam Crozier s esteem than that of
any man. At first he began by liking me, I
honestly believe. When I got into trouble he
pitied me and still believed in me ; now he
simply despises me."

Are you not," she asked softly, " making out
the worst case you can against yourself, Willy ?
I do not think that Mr. . . . that he despises
you. He is too just to despise any man."

"It is his justice that does it," answered
Holdsworth, with an awkward laugh. "Unfortunately
he has a right to treat me as he
does. He cannot understand weakness of any



description — and I suppose I am weak. 1 know
that I cannot rely upon myself. The desire todo
the proper thing is there right enough, but
when the time comes I somehow cannot do it.
Luck is against me, and " — here he shrugged his
shoulders — " I suppose I am weak. At least,
Crozier thinks that I am ; I can see that."

Elma was puzzled. This ex-sailor was beyond
her grasp of character. He had puzzled a much
deeper thinker than her, for Crozier had striven
in vain to get at the man's real inner self. There
was much good, and really very little that was
bad in William Holdsworth, but the blend was
so irregular that evil seemed to predominate.
He made the most of his bad qualities, as unambitious
men are in the habit of doing ; and with
his virtues he made a very poor show. Moreover,
he was disappointed in life, and somewhat bored ;
taking a queer delight in boasting of his own
failures.

"Holdsworth," Crozier had once said to him
from the quarter-deck when they were both in
oilskins, which sometimes covers gold-lace and
its subtle differences at sea, " you want ballast.



You would be better for it in fair weather as W(fll
as in foul."

A few words spoken in kindly praise — shouted
rather, for a typhoon raged round them, and the
air was seething; — at the successful termination
of a wild feat aloft which made Holdsworth's
name known on every ship of the China
squadron. " The fellow who cut away the
Willow-ivrens fore-topmast," they said on the
quarter-deck. ^' The d — d fool who went aloft
in a typhoon," they grumbled in the forecastle.

*' I do not think that he is a hard man,"
pleaded Elma, examining the lash of her whip.

"He was a strict disciplinarian at sea."

But is that the same thing ? " asked the girl.
*' A disciplinarian is as hard upon himself as
upon other men."

*' Yes — he never spared himself. But he does
not make the least allowance for difference of
temperament. He forgets that other men are not
like himself — not cool and self-suppressing ."

I do not think that you understand him,"
interrupted she, thoughtfully.

He does not understand me."


Then the quick-witted girl began to suspect
that the sailor's words were not prompted by
ill-feeling. He spoke against his former officer
in a peculiar, insincere way, as if seeking to lay
the blame upon another for something that had
come between them. She felt that the spirit of
enmity had no place here. There was another
influence at work, and instinctively she hit very
near the mark. There was in her mind no
definite thought that Holdsworth was suffering
under the sting of unsatisfied gratitude."

'but," said she, "you tell me that he has
done a great deal for you — that he has helped
you, and — and that you are grateful to him."

She Was watching his face now, and saw the
contraction of his lips ; the pained, dissatisfied
gleam in his blue eyes as he looked across the
heath, seeing nothing. And with a woman's
quick warm sympathy she pitied him. She knew
then, and never afterwards deviated from the
conviction, that Sam Crozier had made a mistake.
The singer in his strong manliness treated Holds-worth
as his own equal ; treated him as a man,
strong in his convictions, steady in his purpose ;



giving him credit for two qualities which he was
without. She felt that there were passages in the
lives of this man and of Samuel Crozier of which
she knew nothing, and of which she would in
all probability never learn the details ; but instinctive
judgment (a woman's monopoly) told
her that by some warp the better nature of
William Holdsworth had never had fair play.

Yes' he answered, gravely, " he has done
more for me than I can tell you of — more than
he thinks ; but not more than I realize. And
what is the result from his point of view ? He
looks upon me now, at this moment, as an
outcast, a hopeless vagabond, a failure. He will
never believe to his dying day that 1 have really
tried to do better — not from instinctive desires,
not from fear of the law, but in order to show
him that his pains and his . . . great . . . kindness
have not been thrown away. Whenever I try
to show him this I fail. Whenever I come to
him, it is not to hold out my hand and tell him
that he can take it without fear or shame — it is
to ask his help. Only last night. El ma ; not
twelve hours ago I . . . was forced to go to him.



He never suspected what it cost me to do so — lie
never cared whether I thought of killing myself
first or not. All he knew and all he saw was
an outcast, a runaway, a criminal, and he never
eared to look deeper."

He stopped and looked towards her suddenly,
surprising a soft and almost tearful look in her
eyes. He was telling it simply as a story — a
mere relation of facts ; but she saw the weary
pathos of it, and the old time-worn limit that
foils all human attempts to make human life a
better thing than it is.

"It is a long story," he said, apologetically ;
*' I don't know why I should trouble you with it."

Go on," she answered, " I am listening."

"Yet," continued Holdsworth, "he helped me.
He deliberately broke the law to save me. And
as usual he succeeded — Crozier always succeeds
in the end. When I tried to thank him he
shut me up . . . brutally. When I talked of
gratitude he laughed."

The sailor laughed bitterly, and waited for her
comment.

"How utterly," she said at length, very


gently ; " how utterly you have misunderstood
each other ! "

*' I suppose he is right," continued Holdsworth,
after a pause ; " I suppose he is quite right. Of
what possible value can my thanks be to him ?
What difference can it make to such a man as
Crozier whether a vagabond be grateful to him
or hate him ? "

Ah — vanity — vanity ! The wise old Preacher
caught you centuries ago. And still you flit
about among human motives, touching them all,
branding them all with your evil mark I

So Elma learnt it at last. At last she reached
the root of the affair, the base of the widening
gulf that lay between two brave men. And
there, of course, she found Vanity.

He told me," continued the sailor, " that he
did not do it for my sake, but for the sake of
the ship."

Elma almost smiled, the detail was so like
Crozier. He had an aggravating way of screening
himself behind a false motive. He might
profess to have helped his shipmate for old
associations' sake ; he might even persuade



himself that his motive was no higher; but
Elma thought she knew better. She knew
Samuel Crozier too well to believe that.

And you believed him ? " she asked, incredulously.


** Yes ; he meant it."

Elma shook her head with petulant impatience.

*' Some day," he went on to say, " he will
mention my name, and you may have an opportunity
of telling him what I have told you. I
should like to tell all the world, because people
do not know what Samuel Crozier is. You may
tell every one that a scamp once said that he
was the finest and the best man, the ablest
seaman and the truest gentleman that he ever
met. And, Elma, remember that scamps seethe
best side of human nature. If you should
ever speak of me, don't tell him of any protestations
of mine. Simply say that I have gone
away to try again. If ever I come back it will
not be as, what Tom calls, ' a returned empty.'
I shall come back with clean hands, or not at
all. Now — he does not refuse to shake hands,
but he never offers to."



He smiled vaguely, and moved away a little
with his hand upraised towards his hat. But
Elma stopped him.

Shall I not see you again before you go ? "

"No!"

She held out her hand with a pretty little air
of bravado.

*' Good-bye then, and good luck."

He returned and took her fingers within his.

God bless you, Elma ! " he mumbled awkwardly;
^'you are more charitable than Crozier."

Then he raised his hat and left her. She
turned and drove home slowly, meditating over
men and their ways. A week ago this man had
told her, with all appearance of sincerity and
truth, that he loved her ; and she knew now,
without shred of doubt or misconception, that
he had never loved her at all. This was the
text of her meditations.



THE BUSHEL Raised.

LADY FIRTON's ball was as usual fixed for
the Thursday after Easter. This function
was an annual affair, and young couples wondered
in that suggestive and dangerously melancholy
manner, which is the result of supper and bad
air, how many times they had danced together
in her ladyship's drawing-room.

Ah, those balls ! How many a tragedy has
worked itself out while the musicians rubbed
their hands together and rested during the
pauses ? How many a breaking heart has
whirled round a brilliantly-lighted room, and
how many bright eyes have grown brighter
or suddenly dim in sequestered corridors and
twilight conservatory ! How many tears have



been brushed aside with tiny lace handkerchiefs
never woven for else than ornament ? It is
better, however, to take these entertainments
as they are. The smiling faces must assuredly
belong to happy careless hearts. The brilliant
toilets, the gay light flimsy dresses must of
course cover healthy young bodies untouched
by disease or illness. Young, happy, careless,
thoughtless — let them dance. Let hand clasp
hand, and arm encircle waist. Let the old
buffers like you and me, moi ami, lean against
the wall and talk to the dowagers, without seeking
to look beneath the surface of things. Only
only there is an uncomfortable memory behind
this pen. Not ancient history by any means —
not an old time story improved by the crust of
years — for it has lived only twelve hours — a
few short nio;ht and morning hours aofo. There
was the usual brilliant room. The gay dresses
were there, and the smiling faces. I did not
know many of them — only half-a-dozen or so.
And yet I know of tears — two of those young
faces were wet with them during the evening.
And the other side — the black-coated side of the
VOL. ir. 161 28

question ! I see a life made and another marred.
All this between the conventional hours of nine
o'clock post meridian and two in the morning.
Assuredly it is better to keep to the surface of
things.

To Lady Firton's ball was usually bidden the
latest literary star, and a choice selection of
lions. This was not because her ladyship (a
sensible little woman, with a romantic heart of
her own) loved lions, but because she recognized
the wisdom of providing them, just as much as
she knew that ices and lemonade were necessary.

Elma Valliant was one of her ladyship's most
reliable young ladies. She always came to town
immediately before the ball, and spent two or
three days among flowers and careless rooms,
making herself generally useful. The squire
and Mrs. Valliant usually stayed with other
friends, and appeared among the first arrivals.

Tom, of course, was invited, and Sam Crozier
was an habitue of the house, and a special friend
of the clever and successful diplomatist. Sir
Thomas Firton, who was reputed to speak eleven
languages.



On this occasion, however, Tom Valliant refused.
To Lady Firton he made a conventional
excuse. To Crozier he laughingly declared that
his dancing days were done, and to Elma he
would say nothing serious at all, merely turning
off her questions with a joke. With the crowd
Crozier arrived. He made a semi-sarcastic boast
of passing anywhere with the crowd, among
which, however, he was never a nonentity, try
as he might.

Through the crush he ultimately made his
way to Elma's side, and as he shook hands
noticed that she was wearing white stephanotis,
sent to her no doubt by Tom.

^*Are you really alone?" she asked. "Has
Tom not come ? "

'* No ; he has not come."

"Why . I wonder?"

I don t know at all," he answered carelessly,
for he thought that Elma knew more about it
than himself. " May I have a dance . . . ? " he
continued, holding out his hand for her card.

With a gracious but mechanical little bow she
gave it to him, and watched his face with a



coquettish smile of amusement as lie studied it
gravely.

There is nothing . . ." he said, offering to
return the card — " nothing left."

She allowed him a few seconds to express his
disappointment, but he said nothing, merely
standing before her in silence, holding out the
card.

All those," she said confidentially at length,
*^ marked T. V. are at your disposal — to choose
from, I mean ."

She turned away from him to speak to someone
else, leaving her programme in his possession,
and he heard her say that she had no
dances left disengaged.

Did you keep these for Tom ? " he asked
incautiously, when she turned to him again.

'' Yes," she answered, indignantly, " but he
has not come to claim them ; so," she added,
"you may take your choice."

Without a word he gave her back the card.
Over the delicately-traced letters T. V. he had
on all three occasions written deeply the initials

s. a



She saw what he had done, and slipped the
card into the front of her dress, with a little
laugh expressive of suggested remonstrance.

Is that all right ? " he asked gravely, before
moving away to shake hands with Sir Thomas
Firton.

No," she answered in the same tone, with however
a little twinkle of mischief lurking beneath
her lashes. " No, I should think it is wrong."

And with a slow smile and murmured " Thank
you " he went away, moving through the crowd
laboriously, for he had many greetings to acknowledge
and exchange. This he did with quiet
geniality, and a sublime unconsciousness of being
the most popular man in the room.

Later, when he came to claim his first dance,
he found Elma in the same dangerous humour ;
coquettish and kind by turns, sweetly grave and
mischievously gay alternately.

"Why did Tom not come?" she asked, imperiously,
as she took the singer's arm. The
question implied plainly that she had by no
means forgotten that this waltz belonged by

rights to her cousin.

1G5

"Goodness knows," he answered, shrugging
his shoulders hopelessly.

C'est possible, but . do 'sou ? "

No ; I have not the least idea. He does not
care much for dancing, I believe."

They began waltzing, and the floor was
crowded, so the conversation dropped for a few
moments.

Have you seen him to-day ? " she asked
presently.

"Yes, I saw him for a few minutes."

In town ? " she asked.

"Yes."

*' At Myra's ? " she persisted.

"Ye-es," he answered, with some slight hesitation.


At this moment the crowd suddenly increased.
It was almost a block, but Crozier detected an
outlet, and escaped through it, reversing and
steering admirably. "When they were upon a
clearer floor he laughed.

"They seem to be rather jammed in that
corner," he observed in a lighter tone, which



had the effect of driving away the gravity which
had come into Elma's eyes.

Yes," she answered, " we are well out of it,
thanks to your womanlike manoeuvre. I suppose
that is part of your discarded profession ? "

'* What — getting out of a tight place ? "

"Yes."

It is better never to get in," he replied
gravely.

By the way," she said, with apparent lack of
sequence, " do you know that Willy Holds worth
has gone away again ? "

"The young fellow," he suggested, with innocent
interrogation, " dio lived with his father
and mother near Goldheath ? "

She did not answer, but looked up with
peculiarly unsteady lips into his eyes. He could
not understand at all the expression of her face.
It was a strange mixture of suppressed laughter
and something else — something very different,
which he could not define.

"You are splendid," she said, with a faint
suggestion of reproach ; " simply splendid."

For once in his life he was taken aback — all


aback, he would have said technically. After a
pause, however, he looked down quizzically at his
own apparel.

'eyes," he murmured, complacently, "I think
my get-up is very nice."

She did not laugh, but merely gave the faintest
of smiles as a tribute to his wit.

If ever," she said, " I am overburdened with
a secret ; if I feel that I must tell somebody or
or die, I will choose you ; you are like a
well."

With Truth hidden in it ? " he asked.

Yes," she answered guilelessly, " most certainly
; with Truth hidden in it."

"Thank you," he said airily; "but please
explain. You must remember that I am a little
dense. I am not a quick thinker . . . like Tom."

There was contradiction written in her eyes ;
but she said nothing for some moments. At
last she made a little movement, dragged slightly
upon his arm, which he promptly and correctly
read as a suggestion to stop. They passed out
of the room into a smaller apartment where all

was quiet.



Willy Holds worth," she then said, " spoke
to me before he went away."

'' Oh ! "doubtfully.

He gave me a slight sketch of the career —
the downward career — of a rolling stone."

'' Each man," suggested Crozier, uncomfortably.

She looked at him gravely, almost impatiently.

** I have acknowledged," she said, " that you
are splendid ; is it necessary for you to keep it
up any longer ? "

That depends," he answered unabashed, with a
deprecating smile, '* upon how much he told you."

I think he told me everything — suppressing
only a few details unfit for my delicate attention."

Still Crozier looked embarrassed and somewhat
doubtful.

You can dispense with the bushel " — looking
at him with grave meaning.

It is an article," he returned, ** of which I
make little use. My light may flicker, but it
is fully exposed to the public gaze."

She shook her head in contradiction.

That is hardly the pure and simple truth.
On several occasions I have come suddenly upon



good that has been done by stealth. You need
not deny it. I like doing it very much indeed."

He moved restlessly, and looked round the
room in a vague, smiling way. The exhausted
dancers were now appearing in couples seeking
seats.

'* Please do not look so very solemn," he
pleaded, in a lowered voice. '* These observant
people will think that we have been quarrelling,
or . . ."

He stopped suddenly.

Or what ? "

Or boring each other."

Elma laughed, but made no further answer.
For some moments they sat without speaking,
then Crozier moved briskly, drawing in his legs
and sitting forward.

"This is not ball-room behaviour," he remarked.
" We should be talking weather very
gravely, or nonsense noisily. At all events we
ought to smile vapidly and look pleased with
ourselves."

Ignoring these weighty suggestions, she spoke
in the same serious strain.



He sent a message to you, Sam. That is
why I mentioned his name."

"Indeed" — with some interest. "What was
it?"

He asked me to tell you that he has gone
away to try again — that is all."

Crozier brushed aside his moustache by a
quick movement of his hand, first to one side
and then to the other. It was a habit with him
upon the platform, or when he wished to think
deeply. He always began to sing with that
quick movement of the hand.

Nothing more ? " he asked.

No ; nothing more."

He sat gazing thoughtfully across the room at
nothing in particular, while in his deep set eyes
there came a melancholy, dissatisfied expression,
such as always shows itself upon the face of a
man who is looking back over a past that might
have been improved. Of course we all have
such a view behind us. Cela va sans dire. But
how many of us look, and how many recognize
the mistakes that have been made ? There was
no actual remorse in Crozier's heart. Indeed he



would have acted in the same way in like circumstances
again. It was an unfortunate chance — that
was all — that a strong man should have become
the benefactor of a weak one who was no coward.
With courage Samuel Crozier expected to find
steadfastness, and found it not. From him
Holds worth looked for a tolerance unnatural ina
self-judging, self-suppressing man. The disappointment
was mutual, and its influence
stronger upon the characters of the two sailors
than one would have imagined. It almost
seemed that they had not met upon the broad
highway of life by mere accident. There was
something more than chance in the drawing
together of these two men — both born on Gold-heath
— upon the high seas.

We must simply acknowledge that human
influence goes for naught in this existence.
Man's work unto man is nothing, else why
should Crozier have failed in his attempt, pure
enough and disinterested, to benefit a straggler
upon the highway ? Why should they have
parted in haste in the Blackfriars' Bridge Road
never to meet again — never to learn that each



had done some good unto the other — that the
misunderstanding between their finite hearts
was also finite.

Elma knew that there was woman's work todo
here — for women were most assuredly intended
to patch up man's faulty nature ; to
bring men together and soften the grating angles.
But she recoiled before the task which was
utterly beyond her powers. She could only tell
Samuel Crozier what had happened. To influence
him directly was more than she could
accomplish, though she almost felt herself within
reach of the misunderstanding. She could
almost lay her hand upon the fault and say,
This or that have you done wrong ; " but
something held her back — some strange shyness.
And so she attempted nothing.

Presently there was a movement among the
guests, and Crozier rose from his seat, offering
his arm. In a Cinderella dance men seek their
partners early, and so there is no time to be lost.

As they crossed the room together Crozier
looked down at his companion, and said in an
explanatory tone —



There is much good in Holdsworth, I am
sure; but somehow he has been unfortunate.
The good has not yet had an opportunity of
coming out."

She made no answer ; indeed she could not
do so, because her partner for the next dance
was standing before her.

They did not again talk of William Holds-worth
during the evenings. There were other
subjects which interested them, and when they
parted at the end of their last dance together
they did so merrily and unconcernedly. She
upbraided him for laziness in going home so
early, and he laughingly replied that there was
now nothing to retain him at the ball, which
compliment she acknowledged with a gay nod.

There was no slightest premonition, no instinctive
foreknowledge that they were to meet again
before the dawn of the next day. As usual,
Crozier was gravely ready to fall into any
humour that might be influencing her — as usual,
she was gay and incomprehensible.

He elbowed his way through the throng with
the little half coquettish nod and the glance of



the defiant eyes still in this memory, and he did
not know that she was watching him while she
talked to her partner.

Without attracting undue attention he made
his way out of the house. He never quite
defined the feeling that prompted him to leave
Lady Firton's so early. Such a proceeding was
contrary to custom, for he was not a '^ blase"
man at all, and being an enthusiastic dancer as
well as a keeper of very late hours, he was
usually among the last to leave. The cheery
little hostess did not fail to notice his early
departure, for she had counted upon his remaining
to the second informal supper after
the guests had left.

He had a vague intention of " looking up "
Tom Yalliant — not such a difficult task in
their small Bohemian world as one would
imagine.

When he had passed down the broad stone
steps into the dark square he found a long file
of deserted cabs. The men were congregated
together in the middle of the road, and in a
moment the singer saw the reason of it. To the



eastward, over the denser parts of London, there
hovered in the sky a shimmering glow of light.

With that easy sense of intercourse with a
lower class which most men learn at sea, Crozier
joined the group.

A fire ? " he said, interrogatively.

'' Yessir," answered a man near to him, " and
a bi: 'un too."

The sky was all rosy, while the glow rose and
fell unsteadily. Observing this a young cabman
took his pipe from his lips and expectorated
energetically.

'' See it jumping' ? " he observed. '* That shows
it's near."

It's in the Strand, that's my opinion," said a
gruff voice in the background.

'' I believe it is," rejoined Crozier ; '' somewhere
near Bratton Street. I am going in that
direction — who will drive me ? — a hansom, I
mean."

I'm your man, Mr. Crozier," said a young
fellow who, with the keenness of his race, had
recognized the singer ; *' I'm first on the rank,
and a good horse too."



Crozier followed the cab-driver, and in a few-minutes
was rolling through quiet streets towards
the Strand. He had directed the man to drive
to Myra's, and proceeded to light the inevitable
cigar ; no easy task in a brisk south-easterly
breeze.

VOL. II. 177 29

THE FIRE.

CROZIER was right. The fire was in Bratton
Street. Moreover, it was at Myra's. Fortunately
the theatre-traffic had been disposed of
before that stout lady began raking out her grill
with a crooked poker.

Mishaps of all descriptions have a peculiar
way of appearing almost impossible before the
event, and absurdly easy after. The front of
the grill fell out, and the burning coals rolled
upon the floor. One reached as far as the
curtain of the inner bar, which blazed up at
once. In a few moments it was wrenched from
its rings by Tom Valliant from within, but the
thin, heavily varnished woodwork was already
alight. Still it would have been quite possible



to pass unhurt through the blazing doorway.
But Tom did not attempt it. Through the
smoke and flame the occupants of the outer
bar, with whom was now a policeman, saw him
return to Syra. The girl was a prisoner behind
the curved bar, surrounded by brilliant bottles,
decanters, and glasses. Against the little doorway
at the far end of the counter, the flap of
which Syra had already raised, was a heavy
box containing bottles of mineral water, and
this she was in vain attempting to push aside.
When she did not come to his side, Tom glanced
over his shoulder and saw the reason of her
delay. Then he laughed — actually laughed with
the smoke and flames rising all round him.

Wait a second ! " he cried, and leaving the
burning curtain on the floor, he went to her
rescue.

In the meantime the policeman was bravely
fighting in the outer bar, but the fire spread
terribly. A living cinder had fallen among a
pile of newspapers beneath the counter, and
these were now blazing, while the thin woodwork
crackled. The man had nothings but his

o



waterproof cape, and with this he was endeavouring
to stifle the flames, but his hands
were badly burnt, and he was half stupefied
and blinded by the acrid smoke that came from
the varnished wood.

Myra it was who, standing behind the policeman,
still grasping the crooked poker, saw that
the two occupants of the inner bar could not
pass out because the floor was alight.

You cannot get through now," she shrieked.
Go back — go up-stairs ! "

Yes," cried the policeman, as he staggered
back baffled and blinded, " yes, go back — go
up-stairs !"

Seizing his arm, Myra dragged the man out
into the street. The outer bar was no longer
tenable. Already there was a cordon of policemen
forming a semicircle round the blazing
house, and keeping back the excited crowd.

*' Is there anybody in the house ? " asked an
inspector, hurriedly.

Yes," answered Myra, gasping ; " there's
two. They've gone up-stairs."

The inspector stepped back and looked up


anxiously at the windows. Through those on
the first floor came a dull red gleam, showing
that the flames had penetrated the ceiling of
the ground-floor. Then he spoke a few words
to a policeman near him, who immediately
pushed his way through the crows, and ran
up the street in the direction of Co vent Garden.

The inspector returned to Myra, who stood
silently wringing her hands in the semicircle
formed by the policemen.

Have you much spirit in cask in the
house ? " he asked.

Yes. There's forty gallons of whisky in
the cellar under the bar ; and there's over a
hundred dozen of different spirits in the two
bars and the cellar."

The inspector tugged at his chin-strap, and
glanced uneasily up and down the street.

Any paraffin ? " he inquired, sharply.

No ! "

Nor gunpowder ? "

No ! What would I be coins; with ^ww-
powder ? "

A hoarse shout at the corner where Brat ton


Street joined the Strand interrupted them. This
was immediately recognized by the crowd, and
greeted with a cheer. The crowd fell back,
and the first engine, a " steam," with gleaming
brass funnel, pulled up with a rattle of chains.
The men were off before the horses had recovered
themselves, and in an incredibly short
space of time the hose was run out, while two
men ran with a lighter pipe to the nearest
hydrant. The crowd cheered again. They
were getting excited, and the inspector sent a
messenger for more men. In a few moments
three more engines arrived, and suddenly the
assembled multitude raised a great ringing cheer,
which completely drowned the hoarse grunting
of the steam-engine, which was now at work,
literally jumping at each throb of the pump.

The reason of the shout was that Tom Yalliant
had appeared at the second storey window.
Some broken glass falling at his feet apprised
the inspector of this, and he stepped back into
the middle of the street. The window was
small, and Tom was breaking away the frame
for greater convenience in getting out. When



the cheer had died away, a dozen hoarse voices
were raised, each shouting different instructions.
The inspector of police was now placed in a
secondary position by the arrival of a district
chief of the fire brigade. The nearest escape
had been sent for some time ago, but there
were as yet no signs of its approach. A few
minutes more and the two occupants of the
small room upon the second floor would be
compelled to choose between a jump into the
blankets already awaiting them, and a retreat to
the third floor.

At this moment a fireman approached his
chief and spoke for some moments with
him.

Well, you can try it," said the chief at
length, and he turned to make a sign to Tom
to remain where he was for a few minutes more.
Almost immediately the fireman reappeared.
He had in his hand a coil of rope sufficiently
stout to bear the weight of two or three persons.
The police had now formed a double cordon
across the street, completely blocking the traffic,
while behind their dark forms extended a sea



of anxious, eager faces, upturned to the flames
that lit them up luridly.

It seemed almost impossible to throw a rope
from the street up to the window where Tom
Yalliant and Syra were waiting, but the fireman
was an old Dover pier-head hand, who had not
thrown ropes for five years by day and night
in all winds and weathers in vain.

He now mounted on the level top of a manual
engine which quivered and throbbed beneath his
feet. Then with the old familiar '' Stand by ! "
he adjusted the coils. Looking up, he rapidly
measured the distance, and swinging back his
whole body, he threw the rope. It whistled
through the smoke-laden air, freeing its snakelike
coils as it flew.

Hurrah ! Hurrah ! Bravo ! "

With one coil to spare it fell clean into the
window, and Tom Yalliant caught the end. He
disappeared into the room for a moment and
secured the rope. In the mean time the fireman
had leapt from the manual engine. The rope had
to be drawn taut in a slanting direction up the
hill. Had it been allowed to hang straight down



from the window, not only would descent by it
have been impossible, but it would have been
burnt in a moment, because the flames were
darting out of the large ground-floor window,
and the frames of those on the first-floor were
burning, the glass having long ago fallen.

A hundred willing hands grasped the rope and
drew it tight. A man of ordinary strength could
now descend without much risk, hand underhand,
swinging in mid-air. It was merely a
matter of unusual tension on the arms for a
few minutes; many schoolboys would have
been willing to undertake it for the fun of the
thing.

The upturned faces worked and twitched
convulsively, many unemotional men talked
hurriedly to themselves, some shouted aloud,
and others spoke to those around them and
were in nowise heeded.

They could see that Tom Valliant was explaining
to the girl, who had remained singularly calm
throughout, how she should cling to him. Then
she appeared to refuse to burden him with her
weight, which could not, however, have been



very great, because, although above the medium
height, she was slightly formed. She shook her
head and appeared to be urging him to go alone.
They both leant out of the window and looked
up the street, evidently in the hope that the
fire-escape might be in sight.

Then the chief of the fire brigade raised his
voice for the first time with all the science of a
man accustomed to making himself heard.

Come on, come on, my girl ! " he shouted ;
"you only have a minute more ! " And the
crowd heard every word.

Valliant was seen to speak hurriedly, and at
last it would seem that the girl gave in. Again
he instructed her how to hold firmly on to him,
and then climbed half out of the window, with
one leg in and the other out. The crowd was
silent now, and only the throb of the engines
rose above the steady roar of the fire, while
occasionally a distant whistle rang out as the
firemen called for a greater pressure of water
on their hose.

Valliant turned sideways and stretched out
his arms to Syra in order to help her out of the



window. With his assistance she crept out and
took her place beside him.

That's right," cried the chief of the firemen.
"Never fear!"

Valliant's evident intention was to slip off the
window-sill and swing from the rope. That first
wrench on his arms would be the worst. Syra
was to place her arms round him ; one over his
shoulder and the other beneath, clasping her
hands firmly together, while he gave her what
support he could with his legs.

She had actually thrown her arms round him,
and was sitting on the very verge of the windowsill,
when Valliant suddenly cried out something
which was unintelligible to the crowd, although
the Affords sounded like, '' Look out, Syra ! "

Suddenly abandoning his intention of grasping
the rope with both hands, he half turned and
clutched vaguely and unsteadily at the framework
of the window. The movement overbalanced
the girl, whose hold round him was
for the moment loosened, as he had fallen back,
crushing her hands between himself and the
brickwork of the window.



Before any one could realize what had happened,
there was a sickening crash upon the wet pavement.
Two policemen rushed forward, but their
inspector motioned them to stop.

"A blanket," he said, shortly and sharply, "ora
sheet. You must not try to lift her ! "

Very tenderly the three big men knelt on the
streaming pavement. For a moment there was
a treat hush as the awestruck multitude surged
backwards and forwards. Syra lay very still, and
made no sound. Silently she had fallen ; silently
she lay as the three men bent over her — for they
were merely three men now, not two policemen
in the presence of their superior officer. The
dainty figure in its close-fitting black dress was
slightly twisted to one side, the rounded arms
and deft fingers were limp and nerveless. The
white, immobile face bore no sign of pain. There
was no trace to tell that fear had cried the
features. They were indeed perfect now in their
great repose, for the sweet mouth was no longer
twisted sideways and upwards as if existence
where an effort. The effort w-as not needed now,
for Syra was dead. The infinite tenderness with



which she was raised and carried away was futile,
because earthly pain was hers no more.

In the mean time Tom Valliant had remained
for a moment balancing upon the windows-sill.
Then he fell backwards into the room. He inst
have recovered partial consciousness almost at
once, for he was standing at the window the
next minute. With one hand he held mechanically
to the window-frame, while the other was
pressed to his breast. His face was pallid, and
his eyes quite dull and lifeless. The effort was
nothing more than physical, and it seemed as if
he did not know where he was. The glare was
very great now, and he was visible to all. From
that surge of frantic faces a thousand eyes
watched his slightest movement.

The chief of the fire brigade looked anxiously

up the street. "D n that escape!" he

muttered. " Is it never coming ? "

His question was answered by a distant shout,
and the tall, weird machinery of the ladder
appeared at the summit of the short hill. A
hundred onlookers ran to meet it, shouting: as
they went, and pointing to the window where



Tom Valliant was. He had how fallen forwards
across the sill.

As the escape neared the house it began to
sway and totter from side to side, and the
crowd looked up apprehensively. Then suddenly
a mighty cheer arose. The tall red ladder was
swaying because a man was already half way up
it, running lightly up the rungs without however
touching them with his fingers. His hands
were round the uprights — a way we are taught
at sea.

The averse Englishman is an unemotional
being, but he is not devoid of that spice of
life which is vaguely called the devil. He
requires, however, the society of his fellow-men
and the spirit of emulation to raise that devil.
It is this peculiarity that makes him a good
sailor and an excellent soldier — excitement brings
out a sudden fierce energy, while the cool independent
man is behind it somewhere ready for
an emergency. Nevertheless it often happens
that a crowd of Englishmen is no more self-contained
and no wiser than a crowd of any
other nationality, surprising though this may be.



A trifling incident now drove this mass of
people, collected in Bratton Street, almost frantic
with excitement. This was nothing more than
the mere fact that the man who was upon the
escape in certain peril of his life was an English
gentleman in evening dress, with a white flower
gleaming in his button-hole.

But one of the firemen, an old blue-jacket,
had caught a glimpse of his face, and saw
something more there than a " swell " in dress-clothes.


*' Boys," he yelled hoarsely, turning to the
crowd, "that's a sailor."

The cry was passed from mouth to mouth,
'* He's a sailor ! he's a sailor ! " and immediately
there arose a hundred voices encouraging
him.

Stick to it, Jack ! " they cried. " Go it, my
hearty ! God bless ye."

Ay, d n him," muttered the man in

charge of the escape, as he looked up to take
his instructions from Sam Crozier far above his
head ; " he's a sailor, or else he wouldn't ha'
been up there before me ! "



The escape was cautiously wheeled nearer to
the house, from which the flames were now
shooting outwards in forked tongues. From the

o o

window where Tom Valliant's inanimate body
was still visible there shone a red glare. The
fire had reached the second storey, and at any
moment the floor might fall in, adding fuel to
the flaming, spluttering mass of spirit-soaked
wood on the ground where the bar had once
been. From the opposite side of the street the
firemen were playing into the second storey
windows in a vain endeavour to save the floor.

Perched upon the top of the escape, with his
legs twined firmly among the rungs, Sam Crozier
signed with his right hand to those below to
move the ladder nearer to the burning house.
Nearer still ! Eight into the flames. Past his
head seethed and roared unheeded the glittering
column of water. So great was its force that if
the fireman made the slightest mistake, swerving
to one side, and hitting him, the shock would
undoubtedly have stunned him, causing him to
lose his hold.

The crowd saw Crozier leaning towards the
19-3

window with outstretched arms, and then there
was a tremendous crash, shaking the very earth.
A column of smoke and flame seemed to envelope
him and he was lost to sight. The second
floor had fallen in.

VOL. II. 193 30

THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW.

"Or a moment there was a dead silence and
-*- all stood breathless, while the fire roared
and cracked. Then the group of firemen at the
foot of the escape shouted aloud, and the crowd
of onlookers, peering over each other's shoulders,
saw Crozier standing among them with the rescued
man in his arms.

He is a friend of mine," said the singer to
the police-inspector who had come forward. " I
will take him home. He is not burnt. It is
only a faint. Let me have a man to clear the
way through the crowd."

Before the stalwart constable, the tightly-packed
multitude made way respectfully, and as
Crozier passed they greeted him with rough
words of commendation.



Well done, my lad ! " they said. " Bray vo !
You're a good 'un, an' no mistake ! God bless
you for this night's work ! "

Some one had called a cab, and Tom Valliant
was lifted in. Then the sinner turned to the

o

policeman.

'there, constable," he said, in a quietly commanding
way, " I want you to take him home.
Number 5 Lime Court, first-floor. This is the
latch-key. I am going round by St. Antony's
to bring a doctor, and will be home almost as soon
as you."

The man leaped into the cab, and Crozier gave
the driver the address. Then he shouldered his
way through the crowd and disappeared in the
restless traffic of the Strand. Presently he left
the busy thoroughfare and made his way through
several narrow passages at a brisk run.

If I can only get there before he is called to
attend to Syra," he muttered, breathlessly, as he
sped along.

The broad door of St. Antony's was open
when he reached it ; the night-porter who touched
his hat to Crozier was directing two policemen

19.3

to take the stretcher they were bearing to the
end of the passage in front of them where a
nurse stood waiting.

Is Dr. Leonard np-stairs ? '* asked the singer.

Yes, sir' replied the porter — " he's in his
room."

There was a broad-faced, middle-aged man
upon the stairs descending slowly with a smile
(which was habitual) on his face.

Hallo, Sam !'' said the gentleman, cheerfully.

"I say, Martin, old fellow," said Crozier,
stopping for a moment, " I am going to take
Leonard away for a bit — you don't mind taking
his watch, do you ? "

Not a bit," was the ready answer. " But,
tell me, is there anything wrong ? "

"Valliant !" cried the singer, as he sped up-stairs.

The middle-aged man whistled softly, a single
prolonged note, and continued his way downstairs.
There was a nurse waiting for him in the
passage below.

Crozier found Wilson Leonard in his room.
The young doctor was smoking in a deep armchair,
and slowly turning the pages of a large



scientific work which was fixed on a movable
rest attached to the chair.

Leonard," said the singer, " can you come
to Lime Court with me at once ? "

The doctor rose from his chair quickly.

You— Sam ! " he exclaimed. " What's up ? "

'' Tom Valliant ." was the reply. " Look
sharp, man. Tom is insensible. He wants you
badly."

For a moment the singer's voice was unsteady.
His deep-set earnest eyes hesitated to meet the
grave glance of the young doctor. Leonard
wasted no time in taking his hat from a peg
behind the door : then he looked round the
room as if in search of something.
" What is it ? " asked Crozier, sharply.

^' My coat."

Good God, man, come on ! " cried the
singer, almost fiercely. " What is a coat compared
to a man's life ? "

Wilson Leonard had known this grave, self-contained
man for years. They had been together
through many untoward incidents, as
through many lighter scenes. He glanced



anxiously into his face as he seized his coat from
a chair where it lay.

All my instruments are in the pockets," he
explained gently, while his mind was busy with
the thought that he had never heard Sam Crozier
speak like that before. There was a thrill of
something which was almost fear in his voice,
and Wilson Leonard heard it with a sudden and
unaccountable misgiving.

A minute later they passed down the hospital
stairs together, and out of the broad door. Crozier
was breathing a trifle hard, but it was not from
the exertion of running. He had succeeded in
getting Leonard away from Saint Antony's without
his being confronted by the mangled body
of Syra ; but there was still the news to be told.

How did it happen ? " asked the doctor,
when they were seated in a hansom cab.

Well, I was not there myself, but it appears
that in the midst of great excitement he suddenly
fainted. I will tell you afterwards ; this beastly
cab rattles so much that I cannot make myself
heard."

Was it at Myra's ? "


"Yes," answered Crozier. Then lie recollected
that the man was driving them in the
direction of the fire. He jumped up and put
his head out.

"Go round by the Embankment, cabby'' he
shouted; "the Strand is crammed — and go
hard ! "

The man obeyed the instructions, driving with
apparent recklessness at a quick trot down one
of the steep and narrow streets that lead from
the Strand to the Embankment.

In a few minutes they were in Lime Court.
Crozier glanced up at his windows, and saw that
they were fully alight. The policeman had
arrived with his burden.

They found his helmet and cape in the sitting-room,
while the door of the bedroom stood open.
Tom Valliant was lying on the bed when they
entered, and the policeman was bending over
him loosening his clothes gently.

*'He's still insensible, sir," said the man,
standing erect.

Wilson Leonard went forward and leant over
the bed. In a few moments he learnt everything.

191)

How long has he been like this ? " he asked.

"About twenty minutes, sir," answered the
constable.

Then for the first time since they had entered
the room Crozier spoke.

"Mrs. Valliant, his aunt, one of the few
relations he has, is in town," he said. " Shall I
send for her ? "

"Is she," asked the doctor, without turning
his attention away from his patient, "the sort
of person one would send for ? "

"Yes, I think so."

Then let her come."

Crozier passed into the other room, followed
by the policeman.

I will write a note," he said, " which I want
you to take out and give to a commissionaire ;
doubtless you know where to find one. Tell him
to take a hansom, and drive as hard as he canto
the address which he will find on the envelope.
There is a ball in the house, so that he will find
them still astir."

Eight, sir."

"In the mean time," continued Crozier, "here


is the whiskey-bottle, the water is on the sideboard.
Help yourself while I write the note'

"Thank you, sir, I will," was the answer.
*^ Such work as we have had to-night is apt to
unsteady a man."

The singer nodded his head in acquiescence,
although his hand was as steady as a rock while
he wrote —

"Dear Mrs. Valliant,

Your nephew Tom has taken seriously
ill. He is here, in my rooms ; and the doctor
on hearing that you were in town asked me to
send for you. Hoping that a change for the
better will take place before your arrival,
I am, yours very truly,

Samuel Crozier."

"It is no good mincing matters with Mrs.
Yalliant," he reflected, as he folded the letter.
She is not that sort of woman."

He was thinking of the gray eyes with a ring
of darker colour round the iris.

The note was despatched, and Crozier returned


to his bedroom. Leonard had drawn forward a
chair, and was sitting at the bedside with his
fingers clasped round Tom Valliant's wrist.

Well ? " whispered the singer, interrogatively.

The young doctor shook his head significantly.

I am afraid," he answered, "that he is sinking
fast."

And thus they waited for the advent of that
dread angel whose wings were even now overshadowing
them — the doctor seated by the
bedside, the singer standing beside him silently.
There was something infinitely pathetic in the
utter helplessness of these two helpful men.
They could do nothing but wait, each in his
characteristic way — Wilson Leonard with grave
sympathy, but watchful as behoved his profession
; he knew that there was no hope, but
being young he hoped still — Sam Crozier, self-restraining
and self-contained as usual. During
the last hour he had passed through what would
have been sufficient to shake the nerve of a
strong man, but this ex-sailor knew that there
was work for him to do yet — work requiring all »
his tact and all his wonderful nerve. He stood



there silent in his strength ; not unemotional,
not hard-hearted or unfeeling, but simply mastering
himself. There is in some men a calmness
which is nothing else than density, and a brute-like
incapacity to feel sorrow or joy, but his was
not this. His was the outcome of a great
courage, and an unusual consideration for the
feelings of others. It was a very sad picture
this, formed by three men in a quiet bedroom
in Lime Court ; but the saddest figure in it — ay,
sadder than he who lay dying, for he was restful
— was that of the quiet, capable-looking man
standing behind the doctor's chair. It may bea
mistake, but in any kind of strength I cannot
help seeing also pathos. When I look up from
this paper there is before me a huge fortress
practically impregnable — a thing of which the
whole country may be proud. But — quite apart
from any associations called up by the grim
muzzles of its cannon — the sight is a sad one.
In its long straight lines, in the gentle curve of
its earthworks, there is distinct pathos. And
from that fortress, the very embodiment of
strength, down to Sam Crozier standing with



his hands in his pockets watching his friend pass
away from all earthly joy and sorrow, there is
sadness in every strong thing.

They had not long to wait. For some time
Tom Valliant's breathing had been laboured and
irregular. Presently it simply ceased, and the
Answer was his — the Answer to the great unending
" Why ? " which haunts every human life.
It is hard for us to understand why life had been
given to him at all, why unusual talents had been
vouchsafed, why a brave true heart had beaten
in his breast, if this were to be the end of it all.

Here was ambition held back by a terrible
certainty of fulfilment — talent wasted by the
thought that there was nothing to work for —
love crushed by the knowledge that it dare not
ask for love acrain. Here was a life denuded of
all that makes existence a joy, for in that vague
uncertain promise which we call the future lies
the germ of human happiness. Imagine your
own life without a future ! You cannot — you
dare not. This is no sermon, and it is of human
life that I am speaking. Some there are who

profess to find consolation for all earthly sorrows



in another future far beyond this glimmering
shadow we all pursue. But with all their resignation,
such worthy and sanctified persons look
forward to the nearer future as much as we do,
who are without the pale of holiness. In winter
they look forward to the spring even as we do —
in the spring they pleasantly anticipate summer.
Moreover, they complain sadly enough when
spring is late in coming.

Tom Yalliant's life was like a splendid lamp
with too little oil. It lacked an essential of
which the absence was not apparent to the
onlooker. Others may have suspected it, but
he hieiv — knew infallibly and indubitably — that
his existence was without a future. There were
indeed times when hope seemed for the moment
to have overcome science ; but science never
dies, and never surrenders, she only waits. And
so he had to shape his plan of life without an
aim ; he had to steer his course upon the dark
waters without a light or port to make for.

The two living men wondered over these

things as they looked upon the pallid, calm face

of him whose task was done. There was a



shadowy, vague smile upon the clean-cut features
even death could not drive that away. And
they felt that that indefinite smile denoted that
he had the Answer vouchsafed unto him.

Presently Dr. Leonard rose from his seat at
the bedside.

You never told me," he said, " how it
happened."

No," answered Crozier, looking at his companion
in a curious, searching way. " No ; I
will tell you."

He paused, and withdrawing his hands from
his pockets he rubbed them slowly together,
palm to palm. This man never attempted to
beat about the bush.

"I did not tell you before," he continued,
slowly and deliberately, "because it is a long
story, and . . . because . . . because I funked it."

Wilson Leonard had not been a doctor for
some years without acquiring a few small professional
mannerisms and habits. He was unscrewing
the ivory end of his stethoscope with
a certain briskness which I am afraid many of
us know too well. AVe all have a professional



way of handling the tools which our craft
requires. Watch the doctor with his instruments
— consider the waiter with his plates. He
looked up sharply as he continued unscrewing.
The action was that with which he heard of an
undesirable symptom.

"Yes," he said. "Go on, please."

"Myra's," said Crozier simply, "has been
burnt down. St. Antony's fellows have prophesied
it for years, and now it has come. Tom
was unfortunately there. He and Syra were in
the inner bar, and they were driven up-stairs by
the flames. There was a delay in the arrival of
the escape, and the only way out of it was to
swing down by a rope which the crowd held
taut, away from the house. He attempted to
save Syra, and would have done so, but he fell
back insensible."

"Wilson Leonard stood quite still. He was
carefully buttoning his top-coat in a peculiar
mechanical way. He pulled it down in front,
and tapped his chest where there were wrinkles
in the cloth.

And Syra ? " he asked in a toneless whisper.


For some time there was silence in the room.
Crozier moved uneasily, and turned his back
upon his companion.

She fell," he said at length.

Dr. Leonard moved, and Crozier, turning, saw
him draw the sheet over Tom Valliant's face.

Where have they . . . taken her to 1 " he
then inquired.

"To St. Antony's."

Leonard stroked his colourless moustache
thoughtfully.

"And that was why you were in such a
desperate hurry to get me out of the place," he
said softly.

The singer did not answer. There was nothing
to say, and he wisely recognized the fact. His
companion now crossed the room, and sat slowly
down in a low chair. He looked up speculatively
at Crozier.

How quietly I am taking it, Sam," he said,
am I not ? Very quietly."

At this moment they were interrupted by

footsteps, clear and loud, in the solitude of Lime

Court.



There is Mrs. Valliant," exclaimed the singer,
moving towards the door. But Leonard stopped
him.

I say, Sam ! "

'eyes . . .?"

I would sooner," said the doctor, " have
heard that news from you than from any man
in the world."

Crozier nodded his head in vague acknowledgment,
and passed out of the room, leaving
Leonard alone with his own thoughts — alone
with the calm, restful form beneath the sheet.
He hurried away, with all a brave man's
cowardice, from thanks ; but he fully recognized
the meaning of the simple phrase, which was
at once a confession and a mark of lifelong
gratitude.

VOL. II. 200 31

"be ye therefore very courageous."

CROZIER'S note reached Elma as the last
guest was lighting his cigar in Sir Thomas
Pistons hall. Lady Firton had just dropped
wearily into a low chair in the drawing-room
when the servant brought in the letter upon a
salver. He handed it to Elma, although the
address was distinctly written ; but he knew
that Mrs. Valliant had left with the Barker
family some time before, and the word " immediate''
written across the corner of the envelope,
justified the action.

Notes do not usually arrive at midnight, but
the rest of the house party were too well bred
to show their astonishment. Only Lady Firton
looked a little anxiously at Elma. It was



noticeable that her habitual expression, which
was one of capable kindliness, changed with
marvellous rapidity to a look of keen anxiety.
But many gay and laughing ladies have that
way with them. Their smile is sincere enough,
but there is no depth of joyousness in it.

It is addressed to mother," murmured Elma
to her hostess, who was seated quite close to her ;
*but I will open it, because it is from Mr.
Crozier. I am afraid something must have
happened."

Lady Firton was still watching, with the quick
contraction about her lips somewhat intensified.
She said nothing. Elma had already torn open
the envelope in a dexterous, fearless way, so
there was nothing to be said. But Lady
Firton noticed the fearlessness and the quick
determination.

The only thing she has inherited from her
mother'' she said to her husband later, '* is
nerve. She has her father s sweet, cheery nature
and her mother's strong nerve."

Elma read the note, and rose quietly to hand
it to Lady Firton.



I must go at once," she said, in a low voice.

Somehow the other guests had dropped away,
and they were alone at the end of the long room.

In a moment Lady Firton had taken in the
meaning of Crozier's hasty words.

*' I will go with you, dear," she said at once.

*' No," answered the girl earnestly, " I would
not think of such a thing. My own maid will
be quite sufficient escort."

But, my dear Elma, you cannot go to a
man's chambers at this time of night with no
one but a maid."

Mr. Crozier's chambers," suggested Elma.

Yes," replied Lady Firton, readily enough ;
I know. Sam is different from other men, but
still . . ."

At this moment Sir Thomas entered the room.
He was smoking a very large cigar, and a
pleasant smile came over his bronzed face when
he saw his wife.

Tom, come here," cried her ladyship. '^ What
are we to do ? "

He took the letter and read it slowly. Then
he emitted a thin, spiral cloud of blue smoke.



Sam Crozier," he said, with a sudden change
of manner, from easy indifference to grave
energy, "is not the man to lose his head ad
make a mountain out of a molehill. This letter
means more than it says. I see it is addressed
to your mother."

'eyes," said Elma, hastily; "but mother is
sleeping at Mrs. Barker's. I must go at once to
Tom."

Sir Thomas glanced at his wife. Their eyes
met for a second.

'' Yes, my dear child," he said then, " you
must go at once. Shall I go with you, or
would you rather have Parkyns the butler ? "

Elma hesitated. She was afraid of appearing
rude to this diplomat, who seemed to divine
her thoughts almost before they were formed.

I will tell you what we can do," said Sir
Thomas, without waiting for her reply ; " you go
off with Parkyns in a hansom to Crozier's. I will
go to Mrs. Barker's. If the house is shut up and
I cannot see your mother, I will go down to the
Temple myself, and bring you home here. It
may not be so serious after all. Now run up and



put on a thick cloak. Parkyns will have a cab
waiting by the time you come down-stairs."

The girl obeyed, and husband and wife were
left alone in the empty ball-room. Sir Thomas
removed the large cigar from his lips and looked
into his capable little wife's face. The expression
of anxiety denoted by a contraction round
the eyes was still there.

Is this an incident," he asked, " or a
tragedy ? "

Lady Firton was looking at the bare, smooth
floor. Here and there' a flower, a bow, or a piece
of muslin had been kicked aside. It is better to
turn out the gas and go to bed as soon as a
ball-room is deserted; the sight of it is not
cheerful.

*' I am not sure," she answered, " I cannot tell
at all. There is some one ; I only hope it is not
Tom Valliant."

Sir Thomas had Crozier's letter in his hand.
He now read it again, thoughtfully.

Yes," he said, " yes. It is to be hoped so,

for I think the boy is dead. By the way, he was

not here to-night."



No ; he does not go to dances if he can
help it."

Sir Thomas turned away to call the butler,
who passed the door at this moment.

You had better go down to the supper-room,
old lady," he said to his wife. " They are all
there, and will be wondering where we are."

The streets were empty, and the cabman
divined that pace would pay. When Parkyns
announced that they had arrived at their destination,
Elma realized the fact with a sudden
throb of fear. As they had come by the Embankment
she had seen nothing of the fire,
which was now almost under control.

Before there was time to ring the bell Crozier
opened the door himself, j

You ! " he exclaimed, anxiously, when he had
recognized Elma.

Then he looked over her shoulder, and saw
that her companion was Sir Thomas Fulton's
butler.

Good evening, Parkyns," he said, in a singularly
calm voice. " Just wait here, will you ? "

There was a comfortable chair in the passage,


and the butler seated himself resignedly, while
Crozier led the way up-stairs. Elma followed
him closely. His peculiar hesitation of manner
(as if for once in his life he was at a loss and
did not know what to do next) puzzled her. Ina
mechanical way she noted the characteristics
of the room, even to the little copper kettle in
the fender, the pipes upon the mantelpiece, and
the piano laden with music.

"Where is Tom?" she asked, looking round
the room.

In there," he answered, indicating the door
of the bedroom, across which the curtain was
drawn.

She moved towards it, but he was before
her, and stood squarely, with his back to the
curtain.

You must not go in," he said, gently. "Oh,
Elma, why did you come ? "

I came," she answered, " because mother
had left ; she is staying at Mrs. Barker's. Sir
Thomas has gone to bring her. It was clearly
my duty to come to Tom."

She made a step forward, as if expecting him


to move aside, but he remained motionless.
Then she looked up into his face. Suddenly
her soft, childlike eyes contracted with a look
of horror.

"He is dead ! " she whispered. *' I can see
it in your face."

In her excitement she laid her hand upon
his arm. The sleeve was wet, and looking up
she noticed a dull black mark across the front
of his shirt, where a dripping rope had dragged.
He took her hand and led her away from the
door towards a chair.

"Yes," he said, slowly; "he is dead, and that
is why I do not want you to go in. There
is nothing to be gained by it. He himself
would rather that you did not go, I am sure."

She was hardly listening. Her cloak had
fallen from her shoulders, and she stood before
him in all her sweet unconscious beauty. Her
soft white dress was a little crushed, the flowers
at her breast were brown and withered, and she
was very pale and weary. But there was a
look of keen womanly scrutiny in her eyes
while she looked up at the strong calm man.



What has happened ? '' she asked, quickly.
"Your clothes are wet, and you are burnt.
Your hair and even your eyelashes are singed."

He passed his hand across his face. His crisp
hair, his eyelashes, and even his moustache were
tipped with white, which had a most peculiar
effect, almost giving him the appearance of an
elderly man.

There has been a fire," he replied. " Myra's
is burnt down. As I was coming away from
Lady Firton's I saw the glare, and knew that
it must be somewhere in the Strand. It began
in the bar, and Tom, who was in the inner room,
was driven up-stairs. He tried to save . . .
Syra . . . and would have done so, but he suddenly
fainted. I was not there, but I was told
of it. I got there a few minutes later with the
escape, and — we — managed to get him out."

And Syra ? " inquired Elma.

She fell from the window when he fainted."

Killed ? " whispered the girl.

Yes. It was the second-storey window. I
brought Tom here ; at least I sent him under
the care of a policeman, while I went round

218 .

by St. Antony's to bring Dr. Leonard. He
never recovered consciousness."

Elma was seated in a low chair. She leant
forward and stared at the dying fire.

How sad — how very, very sad ! " she
murmured.

Crozier suddenly raised his head and turned
towards her. There was a puzzled expression
on his face, like that of a man who hears a
sound for which he cannot account. There
were tears in her eyes, and suddenly she began
to weep gently and quietly. The dainty little
lace handkerchief which she held to her face
was never woven for tears.

He stood with one foot on the fender and
his right arm resting on the mantelpiece, waiting
with that purposeful calmness which was
characteristic of the man. Presently she ceased
sobbing, and sat motionless, with the tears still
glistening on her lashes. Then he turned, and
his deep-set eyes rested for a moment on her
face and form.

You are utterly exhausted," he said. He
approached her, and stood for some moments



near lier chair ; indeed his hand was resting
upon the back of it, looking down at her.
There was a wonderful sense of comfort and
helpfulness in this man's silent sympathy which
warmed Elma's heart. Then he turned away
and opened the small sideboard. With the
quick noiseless movement of the hands which
never quite leaves a sailor, he poured out a glass
of wine and brought it to her.

Thank you," she said, and obediently
drank it.

At this moment there came the sound of
some one moving in the bedroom, and Elma
started.

'' Dr. Leonard is in there," Crozier hastened
to explain, as he went towards the door. He
drew aside the curtain, and Dr. Leonard came
into the room, closing the bedroom door behind
him.

This is Dr. Leonard — Miss Yalliant," said
Crozier.

Wilson Leonard went forward and took her
hand. His eyes were very sympathetic, and
his grave, melancholy face was singularly pale.



I am glad to have seen you, Miss Valliant,"
he said. '' Tom and I were great friends, and
I knew that his heart was very weak. . I
knew that this must come, sooner or later. He
has been a condemned man for years. I never
told him, but I think he knew it. I am almost
sure he knew it. Some people may think that
I did wrong in not telling him, but the knowledge
of it would not have made any difference.
If doctors told all they know the world would
be a more miserable place than it is. If your
father and mother wish to see me, I shall be
happy to give them all the information in my
power."

He held out his hand again and nodded to
Crozier as he turned to leave the room. Before
he reached the door he staggered to one side,
and only saved himself from falling by clutching
the sideboard. In a moment Crozier was at
his side.

Leave me alone, old fellow," said Wilson
Leonard, huskily. ''I am all right. It was
only a little giddiness, which will pass off when
I get outside."



He pushed Crozier s arm aside almost roughly,
and passed out of the room. They heard him
close the door, and immediately afterwards his
footsteps rang out firmly and clearly on the
pavement of Lime Court.

He has had bad news to-night," said Crozier,
when the sound had died away.

With womanly intuition Elma connected Wilson
Leonard's bad news with the fire at Myra's.

Tom once told me," she said, gently, " about
Syra. Was it Dr. Leonard ? "

Yes," answered the singer ; *' it was Dr.
Leonard."

They were both silent for some time. Perhaps
they were thinking how promptly Wilson
Leonard had come to his friend's side ; how
entirely he had set aside his own weariness and
want of rest ; how the man had given place to
the doctor,

I think," said Elma at length, in little more
than a whisper, "that Tom knew. It would
explain many things which I did not understand
before."

Crozier recalled the conversation he had had


with Tom Valliant not so very long before,
about the girl seated there within a few yards
of the man who had loved her.

Yes," he answered ; " it would explain many
things."

That is why he would not take up any work
seriously," continued the girl ; " why he was so
utterly indifferent about the future." . . . She
stopped, and looked up towards her companion
with a wistful smile. '* That is why," she added,
"he always talks of the phantom future — used
to talk, I mean — oh, I cannot realize that he is
dead at all"

She glanced towards the bedroom door, as if
half expecting Tom Valliant to draw aside the
curtain and greet them with his sweet quick
smile, and some merry suggestion. Death seemed
so far from him in whom a bright vitality was
never wanting. It was indeed hard to realize
that the mobile and dancing eyes were closed
for ever.

If he did know it," said Crozier, *' he was
very plucky about it."

Yes ; he concealed his knowledge very


bravely. Do you remember, Sam, once long ao^o
I told you that I thought his merriment was not
quite sincere ? ''

*eyes, Elma; I remember."

It was a sort of understood thing that they
should address each other by Christian names,
for they had been children together ; but of late
the familiar habit had fallen into disuse, and in
avoiding the formal Mr. or Miss they had learnt
to do without the mention of names at all.

** He must have known then," murmured the
girl, thoughtfully.

He did not answer her, and they relapsed into
silence. Both were recalling a thousand incidents
which rose before their mental vision, now
that it was cleared by knowledge, in glaring
evidence of the fact that Tom Valliant knew,
and had known for years, that he was a doomed
man. Such knowledge is one of the saddest
things that human life contains, which, God
knows, is saying a good deal, and science has
assuredly done us doubtful service in this
matter.

Elma's great calmness puzzled Crozier. He


had always taken it for granted that she loved
the man who lay dead in the other room, but
the knowledge of his sad and sudden death had
been received by her in a manner indicative of
nothing more than cousinly affection. He had,
in a desultory way, concluded that she was
waiting for Tom Valliant to declare his love, and
now he knew why bis friend had kept silence on
this point. This knowledge was but an increase
of sorrow, for it made Tom Yalliant's fio;ht
against his fate a braver and truer battle. Such,
in truth, it had been, for he had suspected that
Elma's love was within his reach had he stretched
out his hand. But he was withheld — withheld
by the knowledge that in manly honour and
fairness he had no right to speak of love to any
woman ; that the future was indeed a phantom.
'Tis the brightest light that flickers first. Tom's
life had barely passed a third of the allotted
span of years, but he left two marks upon the
broad sands of time. One, the book of poems
illustrated exquisitely and poetically, as the aged
singer himself would have wished them illustrated
; and the other a memory that lived for
VOL. II. 225 32

many years at St. Antony's and at Goldlieath
the memory of one who had been " very
courageous," as we are bidden to be. Some
there were who detected a certain inconsistency,
a glaring contrast between the drawings and the
man whose work they were. In them there was
something more than mere dexterity of pencil —
something higher than an intuitive knowledge
of light and shade — something deeper than a
graceful delicacy of touch. There was a great
thoughtfulness, and to it was added a subtle
poetic conception. These qualities formed no
part of the individuality which the artist choose
to present to the world as Tom Yalliant. Assuredly
there was an inconsistency, and, in coming
to meditate over it, there were one or two
persons who realized that it lay in the fact that
the almost reckless cheerfulness with which Tom
Valliant's memory was associated was nothing
more than a part of his scheme of life. It was
a mask — a merry smiling mask — behind which to
conceal the saddest of all the sad tales of which
the first chapters were opening in St. Antony's

students' hall.



I wonder," meditated Crozier, following out
his own thoughts with regard to Elma, " I
wonder if I have been on the wrong tack for
years. I wonder if I have made a great
mistake."

Before the silence was again broken there was
a sound of footsteps in the passage, and shortly
afterwards a light tread upon the stairs. The
door was opened quietly, and Sir Thomas Firton
entered. He glanced at both occupants of the
room in a quick, comprehensive way, and then
he turned to Crozier. He raised his eyebrows
interrogatively, and at the same time his lips
framed the monosyllable—

'dead?"

The singer nodded his head.

Then Sir Thomas went to Elma's side. He
stooped over her very tenderly. If Crozier had
made a mistake, he was not alone in his
error.

I could not bring your mother, dear," said
Sir Thomas. " The house was shut up. Come
home with me now ; you can do nothing more."

She rose and took the cloak which the singer


laid gently upon her shoulders. There are some
women who seem destined never to realize the
pathos of life. It is not that they are devoid
of feeling or sympathy, but in their sunny
natures there is a fund of innocence and sweetness
which never turns to sorrow or disappointment.
They cannot believe in the evil of human
nature ; they never quite comprehend that life
is real and earnest. Of these was Elma Valliant.
To such fair optimists as this, men and women
unconsciously make the best of things, seeking
to detract from sorrow, surrounding them with
the elements of human happiness. Thus it
happened that Sir Thomas Firton and Samuel
Crozier played into each others hands — as men
sometimes do — instinctively. Although Death
was within a few yards of them, although the
singer had looked upon it in all its grim reality
a few minutes before, they avoided, by tacit
consent, adding to its horror by lowered voice
or awestruck manner.

It may be that Elma divined their intention,
for who can read the thoughts that pass behind
bewilderingly, almost aggravating, innocent



eyes, such as hers ? Be that as it may, she said
to Sir Thomas, softly and gratefully. *' It is very
good of you to take so much trouble. You are
both very kind to me."

Her eyes were still a little red from recent
tears, and as Sir Thomas [had said, she was
utterly worn out between pleasure and pain.
Crozier accompanied them down stairs, and held
open the door. Parkyns went on in front to
call the cab. Sir Thomas walked gravely down
the worn stone steps, and Elma followed him.
Then suddenly she turned back, and running up
again stood beside Crozier in the doorway.

Are you quite sure," she asked in a whisper,
that you are not burnt or hurt in any way ? "

Quite sure," he replied, looking down at her
with his slow smile.

She left him with a little nod — left him
standing "upon the top step, but he was quite
grave now, the smile had vanished from his face.
While he still stood there, the voice of Big
Ben came echoing over the roofs ; it was two
o'clock. In less than two hours it would be
daylight.



The singer turned and mounted the stairs
slowly. Standing on the hearth rug before the
glowing cinders, he leisurely passed his hands
over his arms and shoulders. His clothes were
almost dry now, and he had a nautical disregard
for clean water. Nevertheless he reflected indefinitely,
that the fireman upon the opposite
roof need not have directed his hose towards the
burning window just as he reached it.

He glanced towards the closed door of the
bedroom, then he boldly crossed the room, and
drawing aside the curtain he opened the door
and crossed its threshold. Presently he returned,
having exchanged his dress-coat for a short
jacket. Then he settled himself in his deep
arm-chair with the evident intention of sleeping
there. But he was restless, and slumber failed
to answer his call. He moved impatiently once
or twice, and finally sat forward with his elbows
upon his knees.

I wonder," he said, murmuring to himself,
whether I have been making a huge mistake

all along."



GOLDHEATH AGAIN.

Crozier. was not an impulsive man, but at
times it pleased him to imagine himself to
be such. His habit was to make up his mind
slowly and very surely ; and once made up it
was as the laws of the Modes and Persians. His
mistakes — for we all have them to look back to,
I think — came rather from placing both sides of
a question upon too equal a footing, than from
a rash adoption of the course that for a moment
appeared more expedient.

When, therefore, he stood one fair and sunny
May morning at his window, and — while murmuring
a song very sweetly — attempted to
deceive himself into the belief that he was in

an undecided frame of mind, the result was not



entirely satisfactory. His mind had been made
up for weeks, almost stretching into months.
The day had come for which he had been
patiently waiting — that was all — a fair spring
morning, when men's hearts are bold and
women's soft. Moreover, he felt energetic, and
there ran in his veins that subtle fire which
imbues confidence and commands success. He
felt that whatever he attempted to-day would be
satisfactory

I think I will go to Goldheath," he said,
interrupting his murmurous song. '' I think I
will go to Goldheath to-day ! "

The deception was glaringly obvious. There
was no thinking in the matter. He knew that
there was half an hour yet before he need start,
and he therefore stood lazily smoking, absently
gazing down into the court where the shadow of
the brave old lime-tree lay in fantastic patterns
upon the pavement. The leaves were out and
fully formed, but were yet delicate in their
texture and thin and bright in spring-like hues,
so that the sun glancing over the tiled roofs
threw golden gleams among the branches and



soft hazy yellow shades. The ubiquitous London
smut had not as yet taken up his lodging to
any great extent upon leaf and stalk (though the
seasoned wood was woefully black), so that the
toilers of Lime Court and idlers of the same
could glance out of their dirty windows and
learn most unmistakably that spring was now
established in the land. The legal sparrow knew
this also, and held May meetings on the smutty
branches from early morning until sunset. He
did not sleep beneath the leafy roof because
his town-bred feet were unaccustomed to a
slumberous grip of round things ; preferred
something flat, with the warm corner of a chimney
to lean against and be thankful for, about
three o'clock ante-meridian. But he came down
from the roofs and called his friends, and set up
a restless chattering and a hopping from twig to
twig, while all the neighbourhood's cats prowled
around with murderous thought intent. For
even spring (in addition to the battle that
hovers round love) breathes murder and sudden
death.

The singer looked down upon these signs of


joyous life, and listened vaguely to the sparrows'
voice. With his hands thrust deeply into his
pockets he stood upright, and while smoking the
everlasting wooden pipe, thought gently over the
possibilities of life, taken from the point of view
of a strong man of thirty years. Of late he had
acquired this evil habit of allowing himself to
reflect upon abstract things and possibilities.
He was no longer nervously active, anxiously
studious ; and some people thought that he was
singing better than ever, although he confessed
to being too lazy to learn so many new songs as
publishers might desire.

The yawl was purchased, and once or twice
during the spring its owner had run down to
Cowes to superintend her fitting-out in the
Medina, but no plans where yet made for sailing
her, no voyages proposed.

Professionally the singer was in a better
position than before. He had always been
particular in the choice of his engagements,
and his reputation now gained by this. One
or two important concerts, patronized and attended
by Royalty, had served to consolidate



his name, and now lie had the pick of the
musical world. With his old heedlessness he
accepted or refused engagements as the spirit
moved him, quite regardless of personal influence
; and with his former generosity he
offered his services in unexpected quarters when
it was a question of pure charity.

Men spoke of " old Sam " with the same
familiar affection as of yore, and it was soon
almost forgotten that he was a rich man ; that
he did not belong at all to the improvident
world of artists, journalists, young novelists,
and old play writers, who made merry over
misfortune and their wasted lives in the busy
circle which is the inner hub of London life ;
where night and day are as one ; where mind
and body are never quite at rest ; and within
whose charmed ring more genius has assuredly
lived and died than in all England beside.

Home-sick foreigners, hospital-sick students,
and life-sick strugglers of all sorts dropped
in casually at No. 5 Lime Court, as they
had always done, and went away from the
door later feeling glad that they done so. No



meal-time, no hour of night or day was
sacred — one could always find Samuel Crozier,
and he never appeared too much occupied to
spare a few minutes to help by word or deed
his fellow-men.

While he was still standing at the window,
Wilson Leonard ran lightly up the stairs and
entered the room.

*' Spring at last," he said, with a grave smile,
as he held out his hand.

Yes, the spring has come."

The young doctor's sympathetic glance sought
the singer s face, and searching there discovered
that there was a second meaning in the simple
acquiescence — a meaning intended for the
speaker's private edification. From the strong
and gentle face (the true sailor face) Leonard
turned his attention to the upright person, and
detected there a difference in habiliment. Crozier
was dressed in country clothes, and yet he
pretended to himself that the idea of running
away from London and its dusty life had only
come to him after breakfast. The doctor moved
a little, and looked out of the window thoughtfully.



Suddenly a short rapid sigh broke from
his lips, and he seemed quite unconscious of it.
These little sighs were becoming dangerously
habitual with him.

"This sort of weather makes one loner too



get away," he said, softly ; '* to get away from
town and hospitals, sickness, accidents . . .
and . . . everything."

Yes ." answered the singer. It seemed
as if he were going to add something more, but
he stopped suddenly and continued smoking.
He was pondering over that sharp sigh and the
emotionless, sympathetic face — wondering over
the wealth of meaning that lay sometimes in
the little word '* everything."

Professionally, and from a practical worldly
point of view. Fate had interposed her steady
hand for the infinite benefit of Wilson Leonard
as a doctor and a gentleman. Poor Syra had
been right when she boldly told him that she
could only bring misery into his life, and he
knew it, but from the knowledge gained no
consolation. Had the world known the story
of tins kindly young doctor, they would have



bid him congratulate himself that a terrible
mistake had been averted — that it lay in a
nameless grave in one of the vast fields where
sleep the London dead, crowded and hustled
even in their rest. But the world knew nothing
of the story. It was hidden from every living
soul with the exception of the broad-shouldered
man who stood smoking in his simple silence,
pondering over that little word *' everything,"
and realizing slowly that there was something
which Dr. Leonard could never leave behind,
and never get away from.

I am beginning to think," said the young
doctor, " that I cannot stand this much longer.
No doubt it is the effect of the spring weather.
But Saint Antony's is too busy with misery —
utter and hopeless misery. I have done my
share ; I think I have waded deeply enough,
Sam, into the mire of human troubles. It
cannot be good for a fellow to live too long
in one groove, especially when that groove is
full of sufferings."

You want a thorough change, Leonard,"
said Crozier, presently. " You have seen too



much of the shady side of existence all at once,
and it has done you harm. You will be beginning
to think that all the world is like it,
which is a mistake."
*' Yes, I suppose it is."

I will tell you what you must do," continued
the singer. " Come with me for a cruise ; my
yawl, the Willow-wren, is ready and waiting
at Cowes. I want to get up a party the
Valiant yourself, your sister if she will
come, and a sailor-man I know of. He is never
quite serious, and never cynical, a very rare
combination, which makes a splendid companion.
We will go for a month up into the Norwegian
Fjords, where there is never a heavy sea, and fish
and lounge. I think perhaps we all want a change."

It sounds very jolly," said the doctor, with
a wan smile.

"It will be very jolly. I will get the
company together at once. In fact I rather
thought of going down to Goldheath to-day —
partly with a view of seeing if they would come.
The old gentleman is an enthusiastic fisherman,

and . . . Miss Valliant . . . paints."



((

When do you think of starting ? "
About the middle of June," replied the
singer. " Midsummer is the best time for northern
regions. Everything is so beautifully fresh
and cool, which is exactly what we want — eh ? "

Yes, that is what we want."

It is strange how men can go on living
together, or near each other as friends for years,
without ever exchanging a confidence. No
reference to the past had ever been made by
either Crozier or the doctor. Syra's name had
never been mentioned, had never passed their
lips since that night when Elma sat in dazed
silence and watched the two men standing
together at the door — Leonard pale and sick,
Crozier quick and watchful. The little stagger,
the numb clutching at the wall, had never been
explained, and never would be now. A strained
reference was occasionally made to Tom Valliant,
sleeping peacefully in Goldbeath churchyard,
blind to all the shadows, deaf to the weary
plash of rain and the dull foreboding roar of
storms; but the subject was too near to other
matters painful for both, and was soon dropped.



It was only by vague half-hidden words of
sympathy that Crozier referred at times to the
chapter in Leonard's life which was destined
for deliberate obliteration in the face of the
world, though its effect went through existence
with him ; and by quiet acquiescence Leonard
acknowledged his friend's intention.

'then," said the singer, in a business-like
tone, " I may count upon you ? I may hold you
out as an attraction to hesitates ? "

Thanks," replied the other ; " I should like
to go very much."

His tone was cheery enough, but Crozier
glanced at his face as he turned to seek his hat,
and saw that Wilson Leonard was not telling
the strict truth. Had he told this he would have
said that he did not care a rap where he went
and what he did, for a great and weary indifference
had come to him.

I must be going now," said Crozier. " There
is just time to catch the train. Will you walk
along with me 1 "

The doctor looked round for the inevitable

Gladstone bag, but saw it not.
VOL. II. 241 33

You are taking no luggage ? " he said.

*' No. I am not going to stay — have to sing
at Kensington to-night."

Conversation became broken and desultory as
they walked together along the Strand. The
human tide was flowing eastward, and was
therefore against them, which necessitated continual
separation. At the corner of Waterloo
Bridge they parted, and Leonard went back to
St. Antony's, while Crozier crossed the river.

There was absolutely no incident to mark the
railway journey, and yet it was one that the
sinner remembered to the end of his life. The
train was almost empty, and he had the choice
of many compartments. Once beyond the
suburbs he lowered the window, and soon afterwards
his newspaper began to lose interest.
The line was very familiar to him ; he had
travelled on it years ago with his first brass
buttons proudly gleaming on his breast, and his
last tears struggling to flow. Between those two
railway journeys lay a whole history.

Presently the train ran into the sandy pine
country. There had been rain the night before?



and all the atmosphere was fragrant with the
strong energetic smell of oozing resin. Through
the odorous forests the travellers sped, stopping
here and there at quiet little roadside stations,
until at last it was Crozier's turn to alight.

Mechanically he nodded to the station-master,
dio remembered his father, and held his own
opinions about a parson's son taking to singing
and play-acting, and the like. Sam Crozier had
never acted a part in his life except his own,
which had at times been difficult enough, but
at Goldheath one stage was considered as bad as
another.

As he walked along the gravelly platform he
looked round him at the broad open country,
and inhaled the fresh spring air. Never, he
thought, had breath been so sweet — without even
noticing that the station-master's wall-flowers
were out, which no doubt accounted for it all.

In a few minutes he was striding across Gold-heath
by a narrow pathway shorter than the
road. Goldheath it was indeed that morning,
for furze and whin were blooming in golden
luxuriance, and the yellow-clad undulations rolled



away into hazy distance "unbroken save by a
stunted pine or two and some straight larches
clad in new and delicate green, of which the
subtle aroma (like nothing else that I can think
of but claret-cup) came in puffs.

Overhead the larks were singing blithely,
while all around whin-chat, wren, and yellowhammer
added their voices to the great rejoicing.
Away somewhere in the distance a hawk
whistled his mellow call, and fancied himself a
curlew.

Through this Samuel Crozier sped rapidly
with firm long strides, and softly hummed his
most melancholy song because the world was so
fair, the morning so bright ; because he felt
that the day was his, that whatever he attempted
he must accomplish, whatever he sought he was
sure to find.

The short cut which he had chosen did not

lead to the village of Goldheath, but direct to

the Court, cutting diagonally the long path.

There was a stile from the open heath into the

orchard, which latter was but thinly wooded, and

no great success in the primary matter of fruit,



and as he climbed this he heard the sound of
wheels upon the soft gravel of the avenue.

He walked on beneath the blossoming trees
towards the sound, and then suddenly, and in a
most unaccountable manner, he stopped. Through
the, as yet, untrimmed hedge he had caught
sight of Squire Valliant's ancient mail-phaeton.
The old gentleman was gallantly driving with
squared elbows, and at his side sat his wife.

Years ago in a little affair of a naval brigade,
Samuel Crozier had learnt most effectually the
art of seeking covert. He merely stooped and
turned down his trousers, in which he had taken
a reef for greater convenience while crossing
the sandy heath ; but it happened that a very
promising black-currant bush entirely concealed
him from the view of any persons who might be
in the avenue.

As the sound of the wheels diminished he
rose again erect, and walked on with no outward
sign of an evil conscience.

She will either be in the walled garden
or in the house, painting," he said gravely to
himself. " Of course she may be out, or even



away from home, but . . . but I think she is
here."

On nearing the house he ignored the formal
bell at the side of the broad porch, and directed
his steps across the turf towards the trellised
door of the walled garden. There was no hesitation,
no pause in his progress. He merely
pushed the door open and Walked straight in.
Instantly a warmer breath of air met his face,
and it was heavy with the odours of a hundred
old-fashioned flowers. A few yards away from
him was Elma. She did not hear him, for the
soft sandy gravel made no sound beneath his
feet, and she did not see him, because she was
walking in the other direction with a book in
her hand which she was reading.

Found the walled garden, which was itself a
circle, ran a circular path of sandy gravel — a
pleasant path to walk upon, for at parts it was
shady, and there were sunny intervals such as
are bearable and even grateful in most of our
English summer days — which, if a wanderer may
say so, are as near perfection as earthly climate
reaches. Again, there was no break in the path,



no halt and turn, but a continuous round amid
sweet-smelling flowers. Here Elma loved to
walk with a book, amidst her odorous slaves,
with the birds singing all around her.

Crozier stood beneath the shade of an old ilex,
and watched her as she moved away from him.
Clad in a simple cotton dress of a faint pale blue,
her head was without other protection than her
own soft dry hair drawn upward in sweet disorder.
She walked with a slow and measured
step, which was very peaceful, with that gentle
sense of rest which nature alone can teach us,
and that only if we have not lived too long in
towns.

And so he stood in his silent repose, and
waited for her to come round to him. Unconsciously
he thus symbolized his own life.
Had he not waited in that same fatalistic, unmurmuring
way for her to come to him through
all the years that lay between them ? Had she
not, in her turn, started on a path which apparently
led in an opposite direction, following
its winding guidance through sunshine and
shadow, scarce glancing to either side with those



soft inscrutable eyes of hers, only to tread in
the right way at last ? There was no break in
that circular path, and if we only knew it, there
is a similar path beneath our feet marked out
for us to follow, and yet we leave it deliberately,
and crush the flowers that grow on either side.
Elma loved the flowers too well to crush them,
and she knew the path too well to leave it.
Unconsciously and sweetly studious she came
round to him.

Suddenly she became aware that there was
some one near her, standing indeed hatless in
the middle of the path before her. It was
beneath the shade of a glorious old cedar, buta
shaft of sunlight glanced through the dark
boughs and gleamed upon the pages of her book,
throwing back a soft glow upon her features.
Thus it happened that although her face was in
the light, her eyes being in the shadow were
soft, and deep, and dark, when she raised them
to his face.



SAM EXPLAINS.

SHE was a little startled, and even after she
had recognized him the expression did not
vanish from her eyes ; indeed it became a trifle
more discernible.

Ah ! " she exclaimed with pleased surprise,
"is it your

She held out her cool hand, which he took
with his peculiar little bow, very courteous and
somewhat out of date.

'eyes," he replied, "it is I. I hope I don't
come mat apropos ; but this lovely day took me
by surprise. I was not prepared to resist the
temptation, and so succumbed."

Of course not," she said, politely ; " we are
always very glad to see you." There was a
little pause, and then she added in a more
familiar and less conventional tone, " I think we
have all tried to make you understand that you



can never come mal-apropos, but you refuse to
take us at our word'

He smiled vaguely, and looked round the
garden in a singularly interested way.

'' Mother and papa have just gone out," she
added, seeing that he was inclined to silence,
which for some reason was irksome to her
just then.

Yes," he said, honestly, " I saw them from
the orchard."

But they did not see you ? "

*^ No . no ; they did not see me."

They were slowly walking side by side round
the walled garden, and again there was a little
pause, well filled however by a thousand trilling
voices.

What were you reading ? " he asked at
length, almost abruptly.

'' Oh 1 " she answered, in a relieved tone, as if at
last a congenial topic had been found ; "an old
history of the county, which I discovered behind
some other books in the library. It has your
father's name on the first page, by the way."

He took the book and looked at its pages studiously,
without reading a single word printed there.



I had just come across a most interesting
statement. It appears that Gallants have lived
here for a long time, and that the Croziers lived
two miles away, across the heath, in a house of
which no sign is left."

*rand hated each other, I suppose?" he
suggested, gravely.

No ; on the contrary."

Fell in love with each other ? "

'' Well, it does not mention that ; but it says
that harmony existed between the two families,
and that a Valliant and a Crozier — I mean a
Crozier and a Valliant — rode southward together
to Rye, where they took ship to the Holy Land
at the bidding of Peter the Hermit."

"That is rather interesting," said Crozier,
meditatively ; " I would give a good deal to see
those two fellows now. Not in their knightly
armour and Crusader cloaks, but in their
e very-day clothes — just as they may have walked
together in this garden."

*' It is strange to think of," said Elma, softly.

I never quite realized what it is to have

ancestors ; in fact I did not know we had any.

It is very strange to think that those two men


may have walked round this very path with
their armour clanking. It makes those old days
more real to think that we had relations there.
I wonder what they were like — the two crusaders ;
whether they were devoted to each and very
courteous in their knightly way, or merely
familiar as men are now, so that one cannot
tell whether they are friends or not."

I expect," said Crozier, " that they were just
the same as we are now. No doubt they laughed
and talked, and deceived each other, or partially
deceived each other, into all sorts of wrong beliefs,
just as we do naw; and it is probable that those
two men knew no more of each other's real individuality
than I know of that of the Pope of
Some."

She laughed in a slightly strained way, and
spoke at once as if to avoid a momentary silence.
How unsatisfactory ! " she exclaimed. " Then
you are of opinion that human nature was as
artificial then as now — that men did not confide
in each other — did not trust each other ? "

Human nature," he answered, " has probably
altered very little since the days of Noah. There
were probably amateur theatricals in the Ark.



Elma laughed suddenly.

*' What do you mean ? " she asked.

Well' he replied, gravely, " I don't mean
theatricals with a stage and a drop-scene and a
prompter. I mean a much higher branch of the
art, such as you and I and everybody perform
every day in life."

Then she knew it had come. There was no
stopping it now, so she merely clutched her
book rather more nervously, and walked on
by his side. But the colour left her sweet
young face, and her eyes were gleaming
strangely.

The stage," he continued, '' is this garden,
that library — everywhere. The prompter, I suppose,
is our own pride, and he is excellent. AVe
are all excellent ; our amateur acting is too good ;
wee do it too well. With Pride for prompter and
Reserve for stage-manager the comedy will be
rather sad. If we would only show our feelings
a little more and act with less skill, much sorrow
would undoubtedly be averted. Most of our
sorrows come from mistaken motives, and we
deliberately continue to disguise our motives

and hide our real feelings."

2o3

Yes," she acquiesced, softly, " I am afraid
we do."

But," lie continued, 'there is in most parts a
key-note, an explanation as it were of the whole
deception — a text to the sermon — a reason for
the complications."

*' Yes " — in a whisper.

For some moments they walked in silence, and
from his greater height he looked down on her
gently, noting the nervous grip of her supple
fingers round the old leather-bound book, and
the sweet, frightened wonder in her parted lips.
She hardly seemed to breathe at all.

Five years ago," he said, slowly, " Tom told
me that he loved you."

She gave a little nod of acquiescence, as if it
were no news for her.

'' That," he continued, " was the motive of my
part. I have acted it so long now that it has
almost become natural to me. It is almost
harder to throw aside the mask than to continue
wearing it. I know I have acted it well, because
Tom never suspected me more than he suspected
other men, for he was a little jealous. If you
think over it, Elma, you will find that the



explanation of everything is in the secret Tom
told me five years ago. It tied my hands, it
held me back ; in fact, it took the wind out of
my sails, and I could do nothing but drift . . .
drift idly, with no steerage way."

She walked quietly and steadily at his side,
making no sign, saying no word. Her face was
turned from him, and her eyes averted — those
sweet innocent eyes that could not be brought
to recognize harm in anything ; but they were
very soft, and the unshed tears were near. She
carried the book in one hand now, and the other
hung idly by her side. It was the hand nearest
to him, and the fingers were moving gently
towards him, and drawing back again.

^'I loved you before Tom told me his secret,"
he said, simply. Presently he looked away from
her with a peculiar smile which Syra had known
a smile that flitted across his face when he
said anything against himself which had perhaps
a certain vein of truth in it.

** Of course," he added, in a matter-of-fact
way, " I am quite aware that I am not the sort
of man for a girl to love, especially if she be
bright and sweet and happy as you are. I ama



"forbidding sort of fellow, I am afraid ; too
quiet and self-restrained, and dense, but . I
love you . . . that is all I can say for myself
may be that some day you can manage ."

He never finished the sentence, for he was
interrupted by five small fingers creeping into
the brown hand, which he carried half-closed, as
sailors do. And so they walked on hand in
hand, like two children. Elma's face was very
rosy, but the tears were still hovering near. At
last she raised her brave clear eyes to meet his.
With a little smile she turned at length, and
looked dreamily away over the high brick wall
towards the snowy clouds clustering far off above
the sea.

It must have been a very hard part to act,"
she said, softly and very sympathetically. " But,"
she added, after a pause, with a sudden change
of humour, " I knew it . I think I knew it
all along. At any rate I . . . there never has
been anybody else, I mean."

THE END.

w>^^'^>^

§«•

3 0112 041770063
