\Qaa

Library

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

82.3
Sco Tszy


^U

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/youngmistley01merr

IX TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in ordinary tc ^^r Jtajestg the denton.

1888.
[All Bights Reserved.]

Young Mostly,

CHAPTER I.

monsieur JACOBI— the Baroness
de Castille !'

Monsieur Jacobi bowed with
grave courtesy — the Baroness de Castille inclined
her head without raising her eyes, and
the introduction was complete. The introducer,
Mrs. Wright, turned away with a little
siorh of relief to continue her duties of hostess.

o

Monsieur Jacobi and the Baroness had never
been to her house before, and the astute little
Englishwoman was not prepossessed in favour
VOL. I. 1

of the foreign lady. Monsieur Jacobi, of
course, was irreproachable. Everyone knew
the name of the new musician whose violin had
insinuated him into every circle in London
where the fine arts came under unprofitable
discussion. Mrs. Wright rather prided herself
upon being particularly English, however.
She avoided Continental celebrities who,
like prophets and other self-made folk, are
entirely unknown in their own land. She
was, no doubt, terribly prejudiced, after the
manner of her countrymen and women ; but
the fact remains that Bohemianism, honos
hair, and sallow faces received a scanty welcome
in her drawing-room. Affectation in
any form or manner was singularly distasteful
to her, and she was not afraid of showing
her feelings in this matter.

The most regular frequenters of her cheerful
little entertainments were not, as a rule,
celebrated in any way. There was a sprinkling
of young military men, a carefully

selected assortment of active politicians, and
some waifs and strays who followed various
crafts and professions. It is to be feared
that Mrs. Wrioiit found her friends amono-
a circle of very cheery idlers. Men without
lofty aspirations — women without ambition.
Maidens who danced, and sang, and
loved, and laughed — youths who rowed, and
rode, and roamed, and smoked wooden pipes
in the streets.

Of such the small rooms were full this
evening, and Madame la Baronne de Castille
was hanging heavily upon her hostess's hands.
The stalwart youths at that moment dancing
in the other room had, by some strange mishap,
one and all discovered that their programmes
were full when Mrs. Wright proposed
to introduce them to the distinguished
stranger. Every hostess knows the difficulty
attached to allowing their guests to bring
friends, and if Mrs. Wright had thought it
worth her while she would have borne some

1 — 2

ill-will towards the ladies who had been the
means of introducing two such ' unlikely '
people as the Baroness and Monsieur Jacobi
into her house. But, as was her cheery
habit, the little lady took things and guests
as they came, making the best of everything.
And now a weight was removed from
her mind. The sudden inspiration had passed
through her brain to introduce these two to
each other, and trouble little more about them.
Monsieur Jacobi, as already mentioned, was
a most presentable person. Clean-shaven,
dark and sleek, his manners were suave and
courtly ; his medium-sized, graceful fissure
an ornament to any room. Such minute
peculiarities of dress as he indulged in were
offensive to none, and most allowable in a
musician somewhat above the average. In
Kensington he was much run after by damsels
who mistook, in themselves, bodily weakness
for mental woe, dressing in sombre misshapen
garments in order to pass on the

belief to others. But in Mrs. Wright s house
Monsieur' Jacobi had not as yet succeeded
in creatine: in any fair youno- bosom the least
thrill of interest. The hostess herself, who
it is to be feared was somewhat cynical, persisted
in looking upon him as a violinist and
nothing else. She accorded to him no
greater attention — and indeed not so much
as she did to young Sparkle who had just
scraped his way into Woolwich Academy
and his first dress-coat.

With the Baroness, however, it was a
different matter. Mrs. Wrio-ht honoured

o

her with a good deal of attention of an unobtrusive
order. In fact, she took every
opportunity of glancing unobserved in her
direction, noting with her quick gray eyes
every detail of the Baroness's dress, every
tiny movement, many of which betrayed to
the woman of the world that this stranger
was out of her element.

The introduction took place in the smaller

drawing-room, which was almost deserted at
the moment. Indeed, there was only one
other person present. This was a man
with hair and pointed beard, moustache
and overhanging eyebrows as white as snow.
The head was that of an old man — such
as one pictures the ancient patriarchs to
have been — but the body was straight, and
the movements, without being lithe, were
far from denoting infirmity. This was
Laurance Lowe — a possess stone whose 
were done. People whispered to
each other that in days gone by Laurance
Lowe would fain have ceased his rolling
ways, but that Providence had willed it
otherwise, sending a courageous and fairly
intelligent young soldier — one Lieutenant
Wright — to set the stone once more going,
and to gather for himself the moss. Whatever
may have passed between the white-haired
man and the cheery little matron
(still comely and hearty) in those forgotten

days was only known to themselves, and
neither ever referred to it. People wondered
why Mrs. Wright should trouble herself with
this silent old man, who contributed in noway
to the entertainment of her guests.
They considered him an old bore, though
he never displayed the least anxiety to be
honoured with their attention — never yawned,
never confessed to fatigue, and never partook
in a general conversation.

It was to him that Mrs. Wright turned
with her ready smile, which, however, had
something different in it when her eyes met
his. She raised her eyebrows and made an
almost imperceptible movement with her lids,
which plainly said, ' I do not like those
people.' Lowe gazed at her solemnly beneath
his shaggy white eyebrows as she
crossed the room, but his face betrayed no
sign of having read aright the expression of
hers. His eyes never returned the little
flash of mutual understanding : the light

from the candles on the delicately tinted wall
glimmered on the surface of the small single
eyeglass he carried perpetually and without
an effort. It was well that his face was
thus expressionless and habitually somewhat
stony, for Monsieur Jacobi was watching
from out of the corners of his eyes.

Laurance Lowe inclined his head with an
old-world courtesy, as Mrs. Wright approached
him.

Coffee ?' he said interrogatively, without
moving moustache or beard, and offered her
his arm.

^ Thanks, Laurance, I will !' replied the
little lady, with a grateful smile. During
the last twenty years these two had gone
through that little ceremony many hundreds
of times.

They passed together into another room,
and the Baroness was left alone with Monsieur
Jacobi. He had possessed himself of her
engagement-card and was now studying it,

pencil in hand. Every curve of his body
the very manner in which he held his pencil,
his eagerly bowed head, were expressive of
the utmost deference and respect.

The Baroness had not yet raised her eyes
from the polished floor. Her strong white
hands, beautifully shaped and encased only
in open-work mittens, lay idly upon her lap.
There was something in her whole attitude,
in the repose of her fair face, in her downcast
eyes, which was forced and unnatural.
Hers was indeed a beautiful face, sculptured
on rather a smaller scale than Englishmen
admire, pale and very calm, with red level
lips, and close-set eyes. Her soft colourless
hair, almost white in its exquisite fairness,
was arranged with extreme simplicity, but
she wore it parted upon one side, in accordance
with a fashion now obsolete in England.
She could not have been more than twenty-five
years of age, despite her repose of manner,
which was almost that of a matron.

When Monsieur Jacobi had made sure
that they were alone, the expression of his
keen face underwent a remarkable change,
though his attitude remained unaltered.

Who,' he asked in a low-pitched voice,
and with an unpleasant smile — ' who is the
old fossil who wears an eyeglass in one eye
and sees with the other ?'

The Baroness raised her calm blue eyes,
and met Jacobi's sardonic smile with a contemptuous
stare.

Your conscience must indeed be an evil
one, Jacobi,' she said slowly. ' You are forever
suspecting the most innocent and harmless
of treachery and double-dealing.'

Nevertheless, Baroness, who is that
man V

That man, my friend, is one — Laurance
Lowe — an English radical, which means
nothing. He has, by this time, completely
forgotten the existence of both of us. I
should imagine that his whole attention and

time are given to the management of his own
affairs.

'■ You know him, then ?' said Jacobi, seating
himself lightly and gracefully near to the
Baroness.

By reputation only. '

You know some one who knows him
well ?' persisted the violinist calmly,
a do !'

Ah ! May I inquire '

The Baroness suddenly cast down her
eyes, and the Avhite lids closed over them.
A faint pink tinge appeared on either cheek.

I obtained my information from Mr.
Charles Mistley,' she said in an indifferent
voice.

Brother of the Mistley V

Brother of the Mistley.'

Who is daily expected in England, with
his chief, Colonel Wright V

The Baroness bowed her head in acquiescence.
Her red lips where pressed close to-gatherer

colourless eyebrows slightly raised.
Monsieur Jacobi prided himself upon his
deep discernment in matters connected with
the female heart and mind. He therefore
changed the subject somewhat abruptly

You did not expect to meet me here to-nights
he said with exaggerated coolness.

No.' Her voice was totally without
expression.

I am here on business.'

indeed.'

And you V inquired Jacobi insolently.

The Baroness looked up with slightly
raised eyebrows.

That is my affair !'

Jacobi smiled again with a singularly unpleasant
curl of the lip.

^ Yes, Baroness he said ; ^ I am here on
business connected with the Brotherhood,
and I call upon you to assist me.'

The Baroness looked somewhat sullen, and
remained silent.

Miss Lena Wright,' continued Jacobi,
the daughter of our amiable hostess, is, I
have reason to believe, likely, and more than
likely, to come in for a considerable fortune
on the death of . . . Mr. Laurance Lowe,
whom I have seen to-night for the first
time. She is, I am led to suppose, singularly
amiable, somewhat romantic, and with no
more strength of mind or purpose than is
considered desirable in a young English lady.
The Brotherhood, as you know, is desperately
in need of funds. You begin to see, fair
Baroness !'

You wish to enrol her V asked the
Baroness in her emotionless manner. ' You
wish to enrol her, and for the sake of her
money !'

I think,' replied Jacobi, gazing sadly at
the floor, ' I think it would benefit the cause.'

What do you wish me to do ?' asked she
abruptly.

Nothing much — to-night !' was the reply.

Tell me what Miss Wright is dressed in, so
that I may recognise her. I will manage
to get an introduction somehow. That will
be enough for to-niofht.'

She is dressed in white,' replied the
Baroness, in the concise manner of one who
observes everything and forgets nothing.
Tall and slight, with hair a little darker
than mine, rather badly dressed and somewhat
untidy. I suppose she is considered
beautiful !'

You do not know her V

'Nol'

Monsieur Jacobi now became absorbed in
the re-arrangement of the delicate flower in
his button-hole, and took the opportunity of
glancing keenly at his companion's face,
which, however, was motionless and devoid
of expression.

Presently the Baroness looked up, and
caught his sidelong gaze fixed upon her.

I think, Jacobi,' she said, ^ that you make



a great mistake in attempting to be too diplomatic
— too mysterious. There is, in fact,
about you too much of the stage conspirator.
You may of course, as far as I know, be a
member of a thousand secret societies, whose
mission it is to reorganize the world and
society by means of crime and bloodshed ;
but I would have you remember that you
are connected with me only as joint members
of the Brotherhood of Liberty, which is no
secret society at all. With me you need
observe no mystery, no precautions. I am
not to be impressed, like a weak girl, b}^
your stage little surprises and deceptions.
Why, for instance, you should have allowed,
or asked perhaps, Mrs. Wright to introduce
you to me to-night — I do not know. No
good can possibly come of it, and I distinctly
prefer to take no part in such small farces
in the future. Your authority over me
ceases as soon as our meetings are adjourned.
It extends in nowise to mv own life : and

unless we are in meeting, I must beg of you
to treat me as a stranger, or at least a
distant acquaintance. So long as I pay my
subscription and attend such meetings as
you may think proper to call, I am free to
live how I like and where I like — with
whom and amongst such as I may think
fit!'

The Baroness had been speaking in French
with a slight accent such as Germans never
overcome in that language. Her voice had
not been raised above its calm pitch, and she
had never taken the trouble to look into
Jacobi's face in order to see the effect of her
speech. This was no half-hysterical effort
of a weak nature to throw off the influence
of a stronger mind ; it was mere calm self-assertion,
and Jacobi drew back before it.
The Baroness had been daintily arranging
the lace at her wrist, and now she crossed
her hands upon her lap and gazed quietly
at the dancers, whose movements could be

followed through the open door of the inner
room.

Jacobi smiled his saddest, most deprecating
smile, and replied :

I am sorry, Madame la Baronne, that
you should take exception to my conduct ;
but to-night, as in most cases, I had important
reasons for doing as I did. As you
observed just now, I am a bit of a politician,
and, I trust — a patriot. Those, madame, who
are suspected cannot be too suspicious !'

With these words Monsieur Jacobi rose,
and gracefully tendered the assistance of his
arm to the Baroness, who accepted it.

I have taken the liberty of placing my
name against the dance about to commence,'
said he. * It is a waltz. Shall we go into
the other room ?'

VOL. 1.

V

HEN Mrs. Wright and Laurance
Lowe left the smaller drawing-room,
they tinned their steps
towards a diminutive apartment, where some
late arrivals were yet partaking of tea and
coffee. For some moments neither spoke.
Laurance Lowe was a singularly silent man,
and Mrs. Wright was by no means an excessive
talker. They understood each other
thoroughly, and both enjoyed these long
spells of silence. Lowe found a seat for
Mrs. Wright in the dimly lighted corridor,
just outside the small coffee-room, and left
her there while he went in quest of the

coffee. Presently he returned and sat down
beside her.

Dark horse !' he murmured within the
white recesses of his moustache and beard.

Mrs. Wright was fanning herself gently,
for it was June, and she closed her fan
slowly as she looked up and met his solemn
eyes.

I think they form a good pair,' she said,
smiling a little. She had rightly divined
that her companion was referring to Monsieur
Jacobi.

Lowe reflected deeply for a minute.

No,' he said at length with senile deliberation.
^ No ; I think the girl is all right,
but I do not like the man. He reminds me
of a dentist I once had cause to visit, a ad
I hate dentists.'

At this moment the servant appeared
with the coffee. Lowe selected the fuller
cup, and handed it to Mrs. Wright. He
dropped one piece of sugar nimbly into it

without causing a drop to splash up, and
then he began a deliberate search for a
second piece of smaller dimensions. He
knew to a drachm how much sugar Mrs.
Wright liked. There was no lump of the
desired size, so he broke a piece in his gloved
fingers, and daintily holding one half in the
sugar-tongs, he proceeded to scrape with the
other half the particular angle that had
come into contact with his glove. The tray
in the servant's hand shook in a suspicious
manner, but his face was perfectly stolid.
Mrs. Wright smiled a little pathetically, but
made no attempt to intimate to her companion
that his labours were unnecessary.
At length the task was complete, and the
servant was allowed to turn his face away
and grin his fill.

^ Lena,' said Lowe pensively as he stirred
his coffee, ' is looking lovely to-night.'

Through the curtained doors the cadence
of a slow soft waltz reached their ears, rising

and falling on the heavy atmosphere. Mrs.
Wright was anxious this evening, and a little
restless. She had that morning received a
telegram from her husband, announcing his
arrival at Brindisi on the homeward voyage
from India, and she had not seen him for
two anxious weary years. She sipped her
coffee, and glanced over her cup) towards
Laurance Lowe. His great eyebrows were
drawn forward, so that his eyes were in impenetrable
shadow. He looked very old and
somewhat worn, but he had looked so for
many years.

^ Yes, Laurance,' said she softly ; ^ I ama
little proud of my daughter.'

He made no reply, but continued to stir
his coffee absently. Presently he moved
slightly and looked up, drawing in a deep
breath.

Thursday morning ?' he said in a slightly
interrogative tone. This was the time mentioned
by Colonel Wright in his telegram

for the arrival of himself and Winyard Mistley
at Victoria Station.

'Yes, Thursday morning at half-past seven.
Will you come with us to meet him V

Lowe shook his head slowly and with
much deliberation.

Better not he said gravely. ' Would
only be in the way. * You and Mrs. Mistley
go alone ; that will be best.

Well then, come in to breakfast at nine
o'clock,' urged Mrs. Wright.

Again Lowe shook his head, his white
thin beard waving from side to side.

Thanks,' he said. ' I will look in during
the morning.'

Mrs. Wright paused a moment as if choosing
her words to say something difficult.

Willy,' she said at length — ' Willy will
want to thank you . . . for . . . for everything ;
for your kindness to us during his absence.
It has been a great comfort to him, I know,
to feel that you were always near to us, and

. . and it has been a great comfort to us,
Laurance, to have you. I do not exactly
know what we should have done, Lena and
I, without you.'

The little lady actually blushed. It was
rather difficult for her to thank this impassive
man. The thought of gratitude stirred
up smouldering memories, best left to smoulder
in the depths of her womanly heart. It
made the practical woman of the world look
back over the perspective of full years to
the days of heedless girlhood. Perhaps it
made her recognise the teat change that
had come over her own being since those
days, and compare it reproachfully with the
steadfastness of the man at her side.

She had more to say — much more, and
she was going on to say it ; but Lowe stopped
her.

Xo thanks,' he said, 'are wanted. I have
done nothing but " stand by," as Charlie
would sav, to be there when wanted.'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Wright ; ' but 'standing
by " is sometimes weary work.'

Laurance Lowe glanced sharply at her.
His light-blue eyes suddenly acquired an unwonted
brilliancy. It almost seemed as if
Mrs. Wright's remark might have had a
second meaning ; but nothing was farther
from her thoughts. If any man could know
the undeniable truth of the assertion just
made, that man was Laurance Lowe. He
had ' stood by ' all his life.

Instantly his eyes became dull and vague
again. It was merely a passing flash of life
upon marble features.

He will find Lena changed,' said Lowe,
knowing that he was broaching a pleasing
subject.

Yes, he will find her grown. She is a
young lady now, and quite — quite '

Quite able to take care of herself,' suggested
Lowe. Mrs. Wright turned, and
their eyes met. Love's were grave ; but

there was about the Hues of his face a faint
suggestion of a smile. That was the best
he could do in the way of smiles, by reason
of the long white moustache that hid his lips.
'Yes, I hope so,'said Mrs. Wright seriously.
She knew that her daughter was fair, and
also that it is the fairest who find the saddest
lives here. She knew the thousand temptations
that beset the path of a beautiful
woman, the thousand little slips so easily
made, the thousand hands ever ready to push
the s tumbler down the hill. But her faith
in Lena was very great. There was no
tangible, no possible cause for fear ; but withall
her worldliness, all her merriment, and
all her apparent carelessness, Mrs. Wright
was a true mother ; that is to say, she was
weak with all the sublime weakness of her
kind. It was merely a natural misgiving
that came over her at the thought that her
daughter's life was now an individual things
a separate and distinct vessel floating upon

the great waters, and truly obedient to only
one tiller — the tiller of her own heart.

Lena had her mother, her father, and
Laurance Lowe to watch over her, to guard
and keep her, to fend off the blows that fall
upon us all, rich and poor; but Mrs.' Wright
weak woman — was pleased to believe that
father, mother, and friend are alike powerless
to shield their darling from certain small
arrows with an exceedingly sharp sting and
a bitter barb — arrows which fly about at
random, sometimes with the speed of forked
lightning, sometimes slowly and very surely,
sometimes glancing ofl" and leaving but a
scratch, sometimes burying their barbed heads
so deep that to extricate them would mean
death. But the shooting is never good,
never reliable, and never sportsmanlike.

While these two old travellers were worrying
themselves over the roughness of the
road they had long since left behind, the
object of their solicitous thoughts made her

appearance at the end of the corridor — a
dainty vision of soft white muslin, with a
broad yellow sash round a slender waist.
Lena was attended by a huge cavalier of
peaceful but distinguished appearance. As
she came lightly along the corridor, she was
busily engaged in putting back over her ears
sundry little stray wisps and tendrils of hair.
These particular little curls were almost
golden, while above them the heavier coils
darkened into living brown. She was smiling
and breathless, and just a little flushed.
Lena's eyes were in striking contrast to her
hair and fair complexion, for they were hazel
a dark, deep hazel — full of ready laughter,
capable of sparkling with unbounded mischief;
but in repose they were as demure
and illegible as those of a nun. At the
present moment they were soft and glistening
with excitement and weariness : dangerous
eyes for a man to look into, especially
amidst the surroundings of odorous flowers,

within the sound of slow dance-music, for
the next waltz had begun.

The big man, upon whose arm she was
leaning, was fanning her with great sweeping
strokes, so that the lace upon her dress
fluttered in the breeze.

Oh, Charlie,' she was saying, ' that was
lovely ! I do not think that I ever danced
like that before. The music seemed to stop
suddenly, to die away into nothing, and then
we came to earth. Why was it so lovely —
why was it so lovely ?'

The big man continued fanning. He
looked down at her with a slow, grave smile,
such as one expects to see on a Saxon face.

And why,' he said, ^ did we come down
to earth again V

They had both seen Mrs. Wright and
Laurance Lowe, and they both knew that
they were within ear-shot ; but that appeared
in no way to interfere with or restrain their
conversation. They advanced slowly along

the corridor, Charles Mistley taking one stride
to every two of Lena's.

Occasionally the young man glanced down
at his companion as young men do glance at
maidens. Although Lena was tall and
straight as some young tree, the coils of
sweet brown hair came no farther up than
his shoulder. A very observant person
would have noticed two singularities about
this young man. First, he was clean-shaven ;
and secondly, he walked with peculiar firmness,
as if there were some power of holding
to the floor in the soles of his boots. These,
added to the manner of carrying his hands
half-closed (as if there should have been a
rope within them), and his very brown face,
demonstrated satisfactorily that Charles Mistley
was a sailor. In the good old times, he
would have been a worthy lieutenant to some
hardy old sea-dog, all fight and energy — a
true sailor and a brave fighter — but Providence
had been pleased to place his lot in

YOUNG MI ST LEY.

later times, so Charles Mistley took things
as he found them, and was a very good sailor
as they make them now ; that is to say, half-sailor
and half-engineer. He was not considered
to be brilliant, like his young brother
Winyard ; but his reputation for cool, reliable
pluck was firmly established, and his
shipmates loved him one and all.

As the two young people advanced,
Laurance Lowe slowly raised his head, and
his emotionless eyes met Mrs. Wright's,
fixed upon his face. They looked at each
other, thus, for some seconds, and then turned
aside without a word. Lowe's wrinkled hand,
burnt brown by many a scorching wind, shook
a little, so that the spoon rattled in the
saucer. The expression in that elderly lady's
eyes resembled so remarkably that which he
had discovered in those of a lovely and happy
girl, twenty years ago, when she had told
him gently and wistfully that his life must
henceforth be hopeless, aimless, and objectless,

that he could not meet them, though
his own were illegible in the deep shadow of
his brows. It was, perhaps, no coincidence
that when Lena and her partner approached,
the two older folks looked up, not at her,
but at Charles Mistley. Something, some
vaoTie and doubting wonder, must have
prompted Mrs. Wright to do this, for every
mother looks ten times at her own daughter
in a ballroom for every once that her eyes
rest on some other person's offspring. They
can no more help it than an artist can resist
the magnetic attraction which draws him to
the contemplation of his own picture in a
gallery full of superior works. But this
good lady looked at Charles Mistley, her
eyes resting on his strong clean-cut face with
a wistful, questioning expression which seemed
almost to savour of foreboding. Laurance
Lowe Grazed at the longfellow with those
keen blue eyes of his, and his face bore absolutely
no expression whatever. It was

merely the calm impassive contemplation of
an indifferent looker-on.

The young sailor looked down upon them
from his exceptional height and smiled
quietly. Charlie Mistley's smile was a
pleasant one to meet. It seemed, somehow,
to bring him down to a lower level ; and
smaller, plainer men felt less inferior. It
was a ready smile, too, and women liked it
for its sincerity.

^ I have,' he said, * danced Lena into a
state of sentimentality. She requires bringing
down to an everyday level, so I brought
her to her mother.'

Mother,' said Lena breathlessly, ' being
an everyday level ?'

Mistley laughed, but made no reply. He
seldom indulged in the dangerous game of
repartee, which is like boxing, ^ just to get
warm,' inasmuch as a blow may be dealt
with unintentional force in the heat of
strife.

Look at him 1' continued the girl gaily.
^ He is as cool as — as '

His native element,' suggested Lowe,
without looking up.

Yes, thank you. As cool as his native
element, and I am perfectly breathless !
But it was lovely, was it not, Charlie V

^ Yes — lovely,' he said, looking gravely
at her. Then he brought forward a low
chair.

Sit down,' he said, ^ and I will get you
an ice.'

I will sit down,' she replied, ' but I do
not want an ice, thank you. You are so
terribly practical and earthly — n'est-ce pas,
mother V

^ He is very useful, at all events,' said Mrs.
Wright, favouring Mistley with a smile. ' I
am very grateful to you, Charlie,' she continued,
' for dancing with that Baroness de
Something. I have had great difficulty in
finding partners for her ; the young men now-vol.
I. 3

days are so hard to please, and I find a
growing tendency among them to divide the
programme among fom- or five partners at
the most.'

Charles Mister smiled. That smile of
his came in frequently, very profitably, in
place of words.

Yes,' said Lena musingly, with all the
wisdom of her first season, ' I am afraid that
is a characteristic of the risings generation.'

And she looked demurely and innocently
up at Mistley, whose initials appeared five
times upon her engagement-card.

He, however, did not appear to notice her
glance ; he was looking at his programme.

^ Yes,' he said presently, ' I have two
with the Baroness ; I should not be surprised
if she dances beautifully. There is
something about the way she holds herself
which leads one to think so.'

I suppose she is very lovely,' said Lena,
smoothing her gloves.

Yes, she is a beautiful woman,' replied
her mother indifferently.

Who is she ?' asked Mistley quietly.
It was an innocent little question, innocently
asked, but it received no reply. Mrs. Wright
shrugged her shoulders and sipped her coffee.
Laurance Lowe slowly raised his head, and
his solemn blue eyes rested inquiringly upon
the young sailor's face. Lena continued to
smooth her gloves. The question obviously
possessed no interest for any of them except
Mistley, and his was only the passing thought
of a young man upon the possible history of
a beautiful woman.

3—2

Y George, Mistley, this is splendid
! Listen to this from the
Cologne paper :

" We learn from our London Correspondent
that the Mayor of Dover, in his robes
of office, awaited, yesterday, the arrival of
the Calais boat, despite the heavy rain to
which he was fully exposed on the pier, for
the purpose of an address to Colonel Wright
and his able young coadjutor Mr. Winyard
Mistley, to deliver " (the translation here
is somewhat literal). " On the arrival of
the boat, it was, however, discovered that
Colonel Wright and Mr. Mistley were not
on board. They parted from the other
Indian passengers at Brindisi, and no one
appears to have learnt by what route they

purposed returning to England. It will be
remembered that these gentlemen have been
engaged upon an arduous diplomatic service
on the Indian frontier, and their daring firmness
and resolute defence of the acknowledged
rights of their country in the midst of
treacherous friends and unscrupulous foes " —
et cetera, et cetera — et cetera /'

The speaker, or reader, was a tall gray-haired
man of military aspect. His moustache
was almost white, and cut rather close
to his lied. His features showed signs of
having once been fine, but wrinkles and hardship
had changed all that. His nose was
long and aquiline, a true military feature,
but it was peculiarly thin ; and the skin,
though brown, was transparent and entirely
free from that suggestive ruddiness which
is somewhat frequently found upon the features
of elderly military men. He laid aside
the German newspaper, and looked at his
companion with a twinkle of amusement in
his gray eyes.

No, no,' said the younger man gaily.
Go on — let us have it all — I like it ;' and he
returned gravely to the discussion of a piece
of chocolate.

^ ^'And unscrupulous foes," ' continued
Colonel Wright, reading from the paper as it
lay — ' 'rand unscrupulous foes" — oh yes; here
it is — '' undoubtedly saved the Indian Empire
endless trouble and strife upon the frontier,
while a graver mishap has perhaps been
averted, and the peace of Europe preserved,
by the prompt and consistent action of these
two soldier-statesmen." '

Winyard Mistley wagged his head very
sapiently, and, addressing himself to the piece
of chocolate in his hand, he observed :

Oh yes ! Rather disappointing for the
Mayor of Dover, eh. Colonel V

Rather,' replied the old soldier, folding
the newspaper.

'You will be pleased to remember that
this brilliant idea of dodging the Mayor of

Dover and the rest of his kind emanated
from my fertile brain.'

This remark called for no rejDly, and for
some time the two men were silent. They
were seated opposite to each other in a first-class
railway-carriage, an airy broad compartment
Heed with brown linen. A fine
dust floated in the air and lay on every available
space, for the train was rushing over the
bare plains of the Netherlands. All around
lay vast tracts of yellow sand, varied here and
there by glassy sheets of motionless water.
In these pools stood, here and there, a long-legged
solemn heron. On a raised embankment
the train ran smoothly through the
deserted land. The sun had long since set
and a faint blue haze was stealing inland
across the sand from the distant sea. Win-yard
Mistley lay back in his corner, and
gazed out of the dust-covered window over
the monotonous plains. It was a peaceful,
dreary outlook ; one calculated to call up

sweet memories of the past, to make one
dream vague day-dreams fraught with impossibility.
The faint Hight of dying day in
the western sky lay over the native land
of these two men, the land to which they
were returning after two years of arduous
work, of constant danger grown wearisome
from very monotony. That pearly light
spoke to them of home, of rest, and love ;
all three rendered marvellously precious by
absence in the past years. To the younger
man this home-coming must have been doubly
moving. Four years before, he had left
England an insignificant young soldier with
no great prospects, encouraged and sustained
by no great influence at headquarters. Now
he was about to set foot on England's shores
again, a man with a name among her greater
sons, with a definite object' and aim in life,
and that aim the greatest of all that man
craves for, the glorification of his own
country.

It is assuredly no great wonder that Win-yard
Mistley should be silent under these
circumstances. The very movement of the
train in its smooth rapidity, the bewitching
hour, the happy days in store — all could
not fail to appeal to a youthful heart and a
young imagination. But in the man's eyes
there was no far-away look, no dreamy wistfulness.
Ah 1 would I were a lady-novelist !
How infinitely romantic, how yearningly
interesting could this youth be rendered !
This duller pen, however, has a humble pride
in truthfulness.

Winyard Mistley was an eminently practical
young man. He was an adept at mending
his own clothes, cooking his own dinner,
and grooming his own horse. Practical
people, however, are not necessarily devoid of
sentiment. They hide it — that is all. What
dreaming they may indulge in is done in
private.

His was a striking face whether in animation

or repose, with dark gray eyes of
singular penetration ; eyes that seldom
smiled, despite the readiness of the lips
which smiled perhaps too easily. A great
charm about him was his peculiar unaffectedness.
Whatever he did, or said, was to all
appearance perfectly spontaneous, and without
after-thought. Never at a loss in the
most trying emergency, no one ever saw a
look of embarrassment or self-consciousness
on Winyard Mistley's face. He was simply
without vanity, and therefore was fortunate
enough to be unaffected b}^ jealousy.

At this moment his face wore an expression
of calm reflectiveness. He was thinking,
but not deeply. Perhaps he never had
thought very deeply over anything. His
thoughtfulness was characterized by an extraordinary
readiness. It was not deep, but
it was very quick, and therefore likely to
make its mark in this shallow age. Such
mental work as this never shows itself upon

a man's face, and Winyard Mistley looked
younger than he was, despite a few Ones
about his mouth which were the result of
physical hardship, and therefore in no way
permanent.

Coming from a military stock, Mistley had
himself been in the army ; but the authorities
having been pleased to place difficulties in
the way of his accepting Colonel Wright's
pressing offer to accompany him on a difficult
frontier mission, he had calmly laid
aside his sword to take up the sharp pen of
a diplomatist.

This, though rapidly carried out, had been
no hasty conclusion. The young fellow
knew that the Indian army was no field for
an active-minded man endowed with more
than his clue share of brains and ambition,
such as, without the least conceit, he suspected
himself to be.

Such was Winyard Mistley : a man who
at the age of twenty-eight had been not only

fortunate enough to find his specialty, but
had gone so far as to get his feet well planted
upon the rungs of his own particular ladder.
It is true that his name was always coupled
with that of Colonel Wright, and invariably
came second in such mention ; but there were
whispers in more than one diplomatic circle
that in this happy partnership, one gave the
larger experience and more patient attention
to details, while the other supplied the
brilliant conception and rapid execution.

Colonel Wright was a diplomatist in one
great and important matter, if in nothing
else. He could, with unfailing discrimination,
gather round him the men he required.
At a glance he recognised the fighting-man,
a mere thoughtless creature of courage, whose
ambition lay in the two letters ' Y.C. ;' whose
soft heart was the most vulnerable portion
of his anatomy, his head been the least so
when hard knocks were flying. The thinker,
also, could the Colonel select from the

crowded ranks of human workers. He had
no need for, and took but small interest in,
the slow and deliberate thinker of such material
as produces essay-writers and specialists
; but he knew full well the value of a
brilliant and rapid man whose thoughts are
almost instinctive. One who, as a plot unfolds
itself before him, can at once, and with
light touch, lay his finger upon the motive
and say, ' This is what he is leading up to ' —
That is what he will do next ;' and who,
like a skilful chess-player, can execute a
counter-move of apparently trifling importance,
which, when the crisis comes, carries
everything before it.

Of this latter type was "Winyard Mistley,
and the Colonel was fully aware that the
best step he ever took in his life was to persuade
that young officer, then fretting under
the command of a man somewhat his inferior
in many ways, to leave the army and join
him, since he could not retain his commission

and accept the offer. Two years of constant
intercourse, of days spent in the performance
of a common task, and nights
passed together in various degrees of discomfort
often amounting to danger, will do
much to obliterate the barrier that invariably
stands between men belonging to a
different generation. It had been so with
Colonel Wright and Winyard Mistley. The
friendship commenced at a mess-table, and
based upon letters from the wife of one and
the mother of the other, had grown into
something stronger ; and gradually the two
men (though thirty years lay like a wall between
them) had become necessary to each
other. Of course there were mutual debts.
Had it not been owing to Colonel Wright
that Mistley had found his mission in life ?
But for him the young officer might still
have been idling his life away in semi-indifference.
On the other hand, without his
brilliant assistant Colonel Wright would undoubtedly

have failed to can out the difficult
mission entrusted to him. Without
this aid he would not now have been returning
in triumph to his home, and certainly
the honour which they were both so anxious
to avoid — that which had awaited them on
the pier at Dover — would not have been
tendered by the self-constituted representative
of a spasmodically grateful country.

It was assuredly something more than
mere chance that had brought these two men
together, so perfectly suited were they to
each other. What the Colonel lacked Mistley
supplied, and such slower qualities as
were wanting in the younger man were
to be found in his chief Many good qualities,
however, had these men in common,
qualities necessary to the traveller and sailor,
such as independence, readiness of resource,
rapidity of execution. They were travelling
with very little luggage, and no encumbrances
whatever. Each clad in a simple tweed suit,

they might have been beginning some trivial
local journey, instead of being at the end of
a rush across half the world.

Two small black boxes, lost in a chaos of
huge trunks somewhere in the van, were all
they could claim, and there was something
characteristic even in these small receptacles.
Identical in form, size, and colour, they appeared
to cling, as if from long habitude, to
each other. The same labels and enticing
hotel placards were to be found on both ;
and in particular there was around each a
slight indented mark as if from chafe or
friction, such as one sees round a river-side
dost. This betrayed the hardships they had
passed through, one on each side of a weary
pack-horse, balancing and supporting each
other, lashed together, though separated by
the body of their bearer. Many of us, methinks,
go through our travels like these
road-worn trunks, with a mark of friction
upon us, showing what we have come

through. A grocer, for instance, though hebe
clad in purple and fine linen, seems to me
to have a slight indentation round the centre
of his person, where the apron-string was
wont to press. It is his mark, his trademark
as it were, worn and chafed into his
soul as into his body.

Winyard Mistley lay back in his corner,
serenely unconscious of his senior's steady
gaze. Colonel Wright was absently looking
at him, merely because, perhaps, that clear-cut
intelligent face was the most interesting
object in sight. At length he spoke with
the determined air of one who has weighed
his words carefully, having something rather
difficult to say.

In twenty-four hours,' he said in a speculative
tone, * our official relationship ceases.'

Alas !' observed Mistley with ready
cheerfulness.

I do not wish you, Mistley,' continued
the Colonel gravely, ^ to go away without

VOL. I. 4

knowing how fully I appreciate and have
appreciated all your unfailing patience. your
skill, and your ha23py power of being ever
cheerful and good-humoured under the most
trying circumstances. As for my owai personal
feelings in the matter, I have never
ceased to congratulate myself upon my action
two years ago in asking you to join me, and
I only hope that you will never have cause
to regret it.'

For me,' replied Mistley, looking out of
the window, and purposely avoiding the
Colonel's eyes, ' these two years have simply
been a holiday. That soldiering in India
was not the work for me at all — there is too
much unavoidable routine — too little to do,
and too much time to do it in. Besides,
there is always the feeling that the first
fool who comes along with his head full of
theory could do the work as well, if not
better, than one's self There is absolutely no
individuality in the army. We are like so

many brass buttons on a tunic ; if two come
off they can be put back in reversed order,
or two new ones can be sewn on, and no
one is the wiser — the tunic is neither better
nor worse. Thanks to you, I am no longer
a button. Thanks to you, I have got my
foot on the ladder which to me has been the
only one worth climbing since I was old
enough to know that my life was my own.
The gratitude should be on my side, I think,
Colonel.'

This was unsatisfactory, and in no manner
helped Colonel Wright in his little speech.
So the old gentleman went straight to the
point at once, and somewhat surprised his
junior by the unexpected powers of observation
which his remarks betrayed.

I think,' he said, ' that it is of no use
mincing matters between us, Mistley. We
know each other too well for that. You
have oft beyond the lower runofs of the
ladder, for you are half-way up it already ;

4 — 2
0, OF lu UB.

and in climbing you have found time to give
a helping push to an old slow-coach above
you, who bid fair to stick where he was. I
am not blind, nor am I ashamed to acknowledge
that you are a sharper fellow than I.
You are my superior in the work we have
had to do together, and there is no reason
why it should be concealed. The difference
lies in the fact that you were born to it,
and I had it forced upon me by circumstances.
Everything in you points to what
Providence designed you for ; with me rests
only the honour of finding out the intention
of Providence. Your gift of languages points
to it, your restless love of travel, your very
face even. Why, look at me — I say something
very diplomatic, and the best I can do
in the way of disguising my feelings is to
look blank and vacant ; whereas you can think
one thing and make your face express the
very opposite !'

Mistley was intensely relieved at this



moment to catch sight of the distant spires
of Flushing, which enabled him to change
the subject. Like many of his countrymen,
he could not bear beings thanked.

Victoria STATION is not a

favourite resort of the fashionable
world between the hours of
seven and eight in the morning. In fact,
that sweetest, freshest, most entrancing houris
rather apt, in London, to be dull and
somewhat dismal ; therefore better spent in
bed. The early porters were busy sweeping
up with long brushes the dust shaken
from the feet of many a weary traveller, and
sprinkling water in strange circular patterns
upon the pavement of the station, when the
first hansom-cab of the day made its appearance
with much clatter of hoofs.

From it there alighted a brisk little lady,
who instantly glanced up at the clock. Her
movements were very quick without being
in the least fussy. She paid the cabman
with an air of quiet confidence, which did
not fail to impress upon that most uncivil
of public servants (which is saying much)
that she was perfectly aware of the fact that
he v\'as receiving sixpence more than his
legal fare. Then she turned to a porter,
and said in a silvery voice, with the faintest
suspicion of a foreign accent :

'The Queenborough train, porter. AVhich
platform, please V

The far platform, ma'am. Due in ten
minutes,' was the reply, given with a politeness
which seemed always to be this little
lady's due. With a quick nod of thanks, she
went in the direction indicated. A light,
almost girlish form with a firm elastic step,
such as is of more service to a girl in a ballroom
than the most enticing beauty. Many

a man in passing that girlish form in the
street had tinned his head, to be met by a
pair of cain gray eyes, and to see with a
shock of surprise that the pretty energetic
face was surmounted by a mass of silvery
hair. Mrs. Mistley's white hair was an inherited
peculiarity. Long, thick, and silky,
it was gray at the temples when she married
Major Mistley. It did not change much
for two years after that, but at the end of
the third year when she returned from India,
a widow of twenty-two, it was white. She
wore it piled up high upon her graceful head,
after a fashion which vaguely suggested
Madame de Lamballe, or some other gracious
lady of the old French Court. This mode
of coiffure harmonized with the faint accent
which was hardly that of a foreigner, but
rather of one who had for many years spoken
in an acquired tongue. Such, indeed, was
the case with Mrs. Mistley, who had spent
the greater portion of her life in France. For

her, this was the land of the blessed, the
home of sunshine and flowers, of sweet and
calm comitis life. It was not the country
known to the majority of us — the France of
Paris, of broad pavements and lofty buildings,
of outward brilliancy and gaudy vice, of dust
and reckless merry lives. Her France was a
land of smiling meadows and quaint, crumbling
family palaces, far from the restless city ;
where loyalty is still to be found among a
quiet self-contained people, living out their
lives of voluntary exile from the haunts of
man, with a strange restful patience. A
race bearing names dangerously historical,
and carrying their heads above the petty
strife of Republican office-seekers with a
dignified pride intensely galling to the people.
They talked sometimes, though rarely, of
these same people, and always with a smile,
half pitying and half contemptuous, as one
speaks of a wayward headstrong child.

Mrs. Mistley walked as far as the platform,

and finding no one there, returned to
the entrance of the station. Presently a
small victoria arrived, and from it Mrs.
Wright alighted. The two ladies kissed
each other warmly, and both remembered
later that that form of salutation had not
passed between them since the caressingly
affectionate days of their girlhood. Mrs.
Wright was somewhat pale, but she returned
her friend's smile bravely, and they turned
towards the platform indicated by the porter.
The train was late, and the two ladies walked
up and down the deserted platform in silent
impatience. The circumstances of their
meeting that morning seemed to have swept
away the barrier of years. A coincidence
of memory took their thoughts back to the
days when they had walked side by side
beneath the great silent trees of a vast
French forest — a pair of thoughtfully happy
girls, and the necessity of speech was no
more.

They were now essentially women of the
world, well dressed and brisk ; hurrying
through life, and gathering much enjoyment
from it ; practical, cheerful, and universally
liked. They had met again in a whirl of
London gaiety, after having lost sight of
each other for almost twenty years ; and
each having' come thi'ouo'h the whirring mill
of Youth, with its loves and fears, trials and
delirious joys, found the other, as in the
olden days, a very counterpart of herself
The two young girls whose friendship had
found birth under the trees of Melon, as
they walked side by side beneath the gently
watchful eyes of the nuns who educated
them, had each left upon the character
of the other her individual influence which
had never died away. And so it came about
that these two women of the world, walking
by side upon the deserted platform of a
London railway-station, found again in the
other that little o^erm of human love

which we call sympathy, and wondered over
it, each in her own mind, as we do wonder
over human kindness when we meet with it.
They hardly spoke at all, but each little
movement, each word, and the manner of
saying it, recalled those bygone days. It
was like the recollection — note by note
of some forgotten air : new yet subtly
familiar.

Presently they sat down upon a highly
polished seat ; and, hidden in the folds of
their dresses, their hands met and clasped
each other.

Do you remember,' said Mrs. Mistley,
with a pathetic little smile, ' all the nonsense
we talked in the old Melon days ? How
we were never going to cease corresponding
; how, if we married, we were to be
constant companions ; how our children were
to grow up together as brothers and sisters ;
how . . . our husbands were to be friends.'

I am afraid,' replied Mrs. Wright, ' that

we were very foolish and romantic in those
days !'

The brisk Httie lady stopped short. She
was at a loss for something to say — a very
rare occurrence. Mrs. Mistley had touched
upon a page of her life which was closed to
her friend. Those three years of married
life were as a sacred memory, and Mrs.
Wright thought that the pages were better
left unread.

^ Who would have thought said Mrs.
Mistley presently, ' that we should have one
day to be waiting here for your husband and
my son — waiting together for them to arrive
together ? It almost seems as if Providence
had heard all our girlish vows ; for we have
come together again after all those years,
and our children will be friends !'

Yes said Mrs. Wright absently. ' Yes,
our children will be friends !'

Then they relapsed into silence. Mrs.
Wright betrayed a greater impatience than

her companion. It had been promised that
after this expedition her husband should
leave her no more, and she was terribly
afraid that something would yet come in the
way of this pleasant arrangement. As the
time wore on, she began to picture to herself
a thousand-anemone dangers which in
reality never existed. Now she knew that
he was in a civilized land where travelling
was a pleasure, unattended by hardship or
danger ; but he was not home yet.

It was only natural that Mrs. Mistley
should be thinking of her son at that moment,
and the thoughts were apparently pleasant,
for occasionally she smiled with a passing
gleam of pride in her eyes. Her two sons
appeared to her maternal vision such as any
mother might reasonably be proud of In
accordance with an old tradition of her husband's
family, she had made one a soldier
and the other a sailor. Soldiers and sailors
the Mistleys had been from one generation

to another, rising as high as hard blows
could bring them, but caring nothing for
honours or titles. Ambition was not infused
into the Mistley blood — at least, it had never
shown itself, until Winyard laid aside his idle
sword to wield the mightier pen. And the
astute little lady recognised in this action
the handiwork of a certain restless energy
which had been inherited from herself, along
with other characteristics more or less Gallic
in their vivacity and quickness. At first,
Mrs. Mistley had not approved of this sudden
change in her son's life ; but by the time the
letter announcing' it had reached her, things
had gone too far to make objection of any
use : so, like a wise woman, she held her
tongue. Now, she recognised and frankly
acknowledged that Winyard had been right.
Her feelings as she waited for the train
that morning were strange. After a three
years' absence her son was coming back, and
the day when he had left was as fresh in her

mind as ever. She could recall the very
expression of his face as the train moved
away — a handsome boyish countenance,
with a peculiar, rigid purity of outline expressive
of too great a degree of refinement
for comfort in this world. He had left
England a merry, reckless boy, with no
great sense of responsibility in life ; and now
he was comines back a man, with a name
among his contemporaries, with a definite
purpose in life. She wondered vaguely
whether he would be much changed, whether
she would now find him thoughtful and
serious.

It was hard for Mrs. Mistley to realize that
this was really her son — her youngest born,
over whose tiny crib she had stood twenty-three
years ago, with staring dry eyes and a
breaking heart, while in the next room lav
the still form of his dead father. Could
this man with the burden of life already
upon his shoulders be that same helpless

piece of infantine humanity ? Woman-like,
she began to think of his appearance, and
pictured herself walking by the side of a
squarely-built bronzed man, with a heavy
moustache, and that queer Indian look in
his eyes that she knew so well. Xor was
this mental portrait so very far from the
truth. It was a modification of the memory
of her husband, but Winyard Mistley was
a cleverer man and more intellectual than
his father. His face was cut upon a keener
mould, the features were lighter in their
modelling, and expressive of a refinement
almost amounting to nervousness. Charles
Mistley was in reality more after the t}^e
of his father, with the same tranquil Saxon
strength visible in his eyes.
At last there was a bustle in the station,
and a troop of porters assailed the platform,
arriving in the most astonishing manner
from all sides. Then the great locomotive
came clanking in, with a mighty sense of its
VOL. I. 5

own importance and general superiority over
the mere local engines around it.

A moment later Mrs. Mistley was looking
into the face she had so longed to see.
Even amidst the confusion and excitement
of the greeting, she found time to marvel
that there was so little change in it — a little
browner perhaps, with a hard dry look which
spoke of great hardships borne manfully, and
testified to exceptional powers of endurance.

Where is Charlie ?' were Winyard's first
words. While his mother was explaining
that her younger son would be detained
at Greenwich until later in the day, the
Colonel approached with Mrs. Wright at
his side. Xo form of introduction was attempted
; the old soldier came forward with
outstretched hand, and as he took Mrs.
Mistley's fingers within his, he bowed with
a jDcculiar old-fashioned courtesy, which conveyed
a wondrous amount of admiration and
respect.

Mrs. Mistley !' he said, ' I should have
known you anywhere. We carried a photograph
of you in our despatch-case for many
months. I think Winyard considered it the
most precious document there.'

And which,' added that respectful youth
gaily, ' the Colonel left lying about one
night in the rainy season, the consequence
beinor that it all came uno^ummed, and nothing
was left next morning to the eyes of a
bereaved son but two sticky rolls of wrinkled
paper, one of which was found adhering to
the person of a native dog. How do you
do— Mrs. Wright ? . . .'

The young fellow became suddenly silent,
and turned rather hastily to find the luggage.
There were unshed tears in Mrs. Wright's
eyes, and perhaps he was not quite sure of
himself ; at all events, he was by no means
sure of the Colonel, who, like many brave
men, was afflicted with a soft heart.

Presently the two small boxes were found

5—2

and placed under the care of a porter, who
shouldered them both at once with much
zeal. He saw how the land lay, and knew
that his reward would be greater than his
deserts.

There were now many travellers upon the
platform, and the usual bustle attendant on
the arrival of non-phlegmatic foreigners on
these tranquil shores supervened. It therefore
occurred that no one except Winyard
Mistley observed a tall fair-haired youth
who had evidently been awaiting the arrival
of the train. In appearance this young-man
was distinctly Germanic, although his
face was of a more refined type than one
usually meets with in the Rhineland. Although
his presence on the platform appeared
to be other than the mere result of
accident, he did not give one the impression
that he was there to meet a friend. The
thought passed through Winyard Mistley's
mind that this man was watching the Colonel



and himself, but at the moment he did not
attach much importance to the suspicion,
though he remembered it later.

After having arranged that Mrs. Mistley
and her two sons should dine with them in
Seymour Street that evening, the Wrights
drove away, and mother and son were left
alone together.

HERE is in the lamentably uninteresting
parish of Lewisham
a long street where the numbers
of the houses attain to three figures. Standing
at the end of this street, one has before
one's eyes a lesson in perspective, from which
it could be easily imagined that Mr. Vere
Foster had taken those strange diverging
lines by the help of which he undertakes to
instil the rudiments of perspective into the
densest minds.

As a rule, there is no object to spoil
the purity of line from end to end : the
grass-grown road knows the pressure of a

daily milk-cart and a rare cab ; otherwise
nothing.

From nmiiber one to nmnber one hundred
and forty-nine on the one side, and from
number two to number one hundred and
fifty on the other, the houses bear such a
deadly resemblance to each other that the
oldest inhabitant of Prout Street, a bank-clerk
of regular habits and mechanical mind,
is compelled to look at the number on his
own door before trying the latch-key, and
his house is opposite the fourth lamp-post
on the left-hand side. For those who live
between the lamp posts the difficulty is
naturally cater, and it is on that account

Iso '

that Mr. Seller (who is in some manner
connected with the City dinners, though his
name never appears in the list of guests),
occupying number forty-eight, invariably
spends a portion of the night, or, to be more
correct, early morning, in trying the effect
of his latch-key upon the lock of number

fifty, which house is inhabited by the two
Miss Parks of an uncertain age.

Number fifty-one was occupied by Mrs.
Gredge, a lady who, like the blind beggar,
had seen better days. After the manner of
elderly females of a brilliant past, Mrs.
Gredge let lodgings, and it is with her lodger
that we have to do.

The yellow rays of sunset shone in the
sky over the roof-line from number forty-eight
to fifty, and lighted up the bare parlour
of number fifty-one, Prout Street,
Lewisham. The hideous wall-paper, representing
innumerable baskets of impossible
flowers hanging from festoons of blue ribbon
attached to nothing, was shown up in
all its brilliant crudity by the searching
light.

Small portions of this flowery abomination
were hidden by framed prints, of which the
poor workmanship and general vulgarity
prepared one for the information in the

corner of each, to the effect that they were
specimens of German enterprise.

In strange contrast to the brilliant wallpaper
and repulsive prints, there was suspended
in one corner of the room a small
but beautifully worked representation of the
Virgin and Child. It was an emblem of the
Greek Church, and before it hung a tiny oil-lamp
of red glass with a floating wick forever
burning.

The workmanship was rather finer than
that of the ordinary Russian ' ikon ' or shrine,
suspended in every house and homestead of
the great Empire. The body and raiment
of the Virgin and Child were of stamped
silver, and small spaces were left in the
metal where the faces and hands appeared,
beautifully painted on wood behind the silver.
The painting itself was of the simple, smooth
style which reminds one of the work of
Botticelli, and seems to lend itself particularly
to religious subjects.

At the table in the centre of the room
sat a young girl. She did not look more
than twenty years of age, though at times
the expression of her face was almost that
of a woman of forty. From a low white
forehead, her dull flaxen hair rose in a soft
curve before it yielded to the black ribbon
that bound it in a loop low down on her
neck. The light rested softly on it, but
failed to draw from its smooth bands any
gleam of life. She wore it parted at the
side and brushed well back. Her delicately
cut face was pale, and there was a peculiar
drawn look about her lips, which were very
red. Mrs. Gredge knew her lodger by the
name of Miss Marie Bakovitch ; to many
lovers of music in London she was known
as the Baroness de Castille.

The whole life of her being seemed to be
centred in her eyes. They were intensely
blue, with an almost metallic gleam.

Before her on the table was a newspaper

which she was slowly scanning, column by
column. She followed the line of columns
with a pencil ; not like one who is reading
word for word, but as if she were searching
for some particular news, the rest of the
printed matter being indifferent to her.

The fingers that held the pencil were
singularly white and beautiful, but they
trembled painfully as if from inward excitement.


The girl's pale and striking face, more
beautiful than pleasing ; her painfully searching
eyes, her small trembling hand, and the
softly rounded active figure, all seemed to
imply an unusually nervous and impetuous
temperament.

She appeared to be very ignorant as to
the system followed out in the formation of
an English newspaper, as she read through
the leading articles with the same anxious
haste as she devoted to the advertisement
columns.

Suddenly she laid down her pencil, and
looked towards the window with expectation
visible in every feature. She had not
been mistaken. From below came the
sounds of hurried footsteps on the deserted
pavement, then the creaking of an iron
gate.

She could hear the distant tinkle of a bell,
and a few moments later some one knocked
hurriedly at her door.

^ Come in 1' she said in a quiet voice, and
she leant back in her chair without looking
towards the door.

A tall graceful man entered the room.

Marie,' he said, ' he has come. He is
in London !'

The girl did not move nor look towards
him ; her eyes were fixed on the yellow sky
over the roof of number forty-eight.

He has come . he is in London !'
she repeated after him, as if to force the
news into her own brain.

One white hand was lying idly on the
table, extended towards the young man.

He took a step forward, and raised her
fingers to his lips. Then he seemed to remember
the shrine in the corner of the room,
for he bowed towards it, and crossed himself
rapidly but with reverence.

For some moments he looked at the fair
girl in silence ; she was slowly pressing the
hair back from her temples. Then he suddenly
fell on his knees at her side, and seized
her two hands in his. He forced her passionately
to look at him.

Marie, Marie !' he exclaimed in Russian ;
for the love of heaven give this up ! It is
madness ; his life will make no difference ;
you can do no good by the sacrifice of yours.
Think of your mother, your sister ; think of
me ! You cannot love me, or you would
not hold to this mad purpose !'

She looked down at his pale miserable
face with an expression which any but a

lover would have read as fatally kind and
affectionate.

^ Yes, Ivan dear,' she said in a faint weary
voice, ' I love you. But I love my country
first ; O Ivan, will you never understand
what this love of one's country is ? I reproach
myself again and again for filling your
brave heart, so that there is no room in it
for patriotism. No, no, a thousand times
no ! I cannot give it up. Think you that
I travelled to the South, then home to holy
Moscow again, only to leave it in a few days
for this doomed land, to give up my inspired
purpose after all ? No, it cannot be. Let
me think what must be done. I am dazed,
like the hunter who suddenly finds himself
face to face with his quarry. Where is he ?'

He is having with his mother in Bedford
Place, London. Marie, I will warn him if
you do not listen to me. It is my duty.
I must save you at all risks.'

Ivan,' said the girl with a passionate

thrill in her calm voice, ' if I thought you
would warn him I should kill you now as
you kneel there 1 God who gave me this
work to do will help me to execute it !
Besides, has he not been warned, more thana
year ago, and he simply ignores it ?'

Then threaten him,' said the young man,
rising and walking towards the window.

Threaten him !' retorted the girl, shrugging
her shoulders. ' You do not know these
Englishmen, Ivan. Threats are to them
what oil is to a smouldering cinder — it
brings out the fire that no one thought to
be there.'

For some moments there was silence in
the room. The young man stood with his
back towards his companion. He was exceptionally
tall, with a slight droop in the
shoulders, which suggested a man of thought
more than of action.

His slim white hands rested on the centre
woodwork of the window, and he was gazing

abstractedly at the deserted road, parched and
grass-grown. Gradually there came life into
his eyes, the inward light reflected from an
alleviating thought within his brain.

He turned slowly, and his eyes rested
thoughtfully on the youno- gives bent head
for some moments.

Marie,' he said at length, ^ if I swear
to kill him, will you marry me tomorrow ?
Let me call you wife for one day, and I will
be willing to take the risk of getting away
when . . . when it is done. We can go to
America ; my art will keep us comfortably
there. See, I have only been in England a
few days, and I have already sold many
sketches. It is a strange way to win a wife,
by assassinating a man whom I cannot but
admire T

'Admire !' echoed the girl. ' The man, the
individual, does not come into my thoughts
at all. It is the work he has done and will
carry on, unless he is stopped ; the harm he

has done to our country. What care I if
he be a scoundrel or a patriot, young or old,
beloved or alone in the world ? It is the
same to me, Ivan. It is the power within
him I aim at, not the man himself. You
cannot realize what harm this man can yet
do. You are half a Nihilist, and think that
our country's ruin will be brought on by a
succession of Emperors ; they at least are
patriots. No, no ; if you men would only
combine, the whole world could do no harm
to us ! It is the inward rottenness of the
people's patriotism that drags down Holy
Russia.'

Wil you let me do it V

No, Ivan. I cannot. God gave me the
work to do, and I must not shirk it. If He
intends me to escape when it is done. He
will help me ; if not, I will take . . . what
comes !'

Her blue eyes flashed with the fire of
religious fervour, but she leant across the

VOL. I. 6

table and laid her hand on his, as if to soften
the cruelty of her own decision.

The girl looked very frail and nervous as
she sat in the fading light. There was,
however, a strange set look about her mouth ;
her level red lips were pressed together with
a firmness betokening a marvellous determination
for a girl of her physique.

The young man rose from his seat and
walked to the window, pressing the soft
straight hair back from his forehead.

If you forget your own mother,' he threw
back sharply over his shoulder, ' you cannot
overlook his. What has she done that you
should punish her ? She is no doubt proud
of her son, who after all has done nothing
but his duty, though God knows he has
done that well !'

I think of nothing, Ivan — I think of no
one. All must be sacrificed to the good of
the country ! Am I not willing and ready
to risk my own life '

And throw aside my love,' interrupted
the young man.

For the holy cause ? Can you not give
up something, Ivan ? Though I married
you, I could not make you happy. It is
not in me to be content with the trivial
occupations of a wife and . a mother. I
cannot rest now ; I often think, Ivan, that
there will be no rest for me on earth.'

She spoke in a cold, weary voice, as
though the words were forced from her by
some superior will, not emanating from her
own behoof at all.

Then he came towards her with both
hands outstretched.

Only marry me, Marie,' he urged ina
voice hoarse with suppressed passion.
^ Marry me, and all will come right. Rest
will come, and peace — ah ! and love, Marie ;
for you do not love me now. I can see it
in your eyes. We will go away, and find a
new home in a new land. There we can

6—2

watch things from afar, for we can do no good ;
the sacrifice of our happiness to the cause
can do nothing. It is not thus that the
fate of an Empire is ruled. It is in higher
Hands than ours ; or, as some say, it will
work itself out despite emperors and statesmen,
despite lives thrown away and homes
made desolate. If there were work to do I
should be among the first, and you know that,
Marie. It is weary work to pass one's life
in idle waiting for a crisis that never comes ;
but it is written, and we cannot but obey.
When the time comes, there will be no call
for statesmen and politicians ; the people will
do the work, the people will find the leaders.
Ah ! Marie, if you would only listen when
I tell you that this is no work for women,
these are no thoughts for a woman's mind !
Everything in the past points to it, everything
in the present confirms that God will
not have such work done by a woman's hand.
He will never bless such an undertaking.'

Mental resistance in women is usually
totally without respect to physical force.
The man might have argued and persuaded
till dawn, but it would have been of no avail.
The frail girl was as intent on her purpose
as the most determined man, and with the
additional incentive of a woman's unreasoning
belief in her own convictions, which
will not listen to the most direct and convincing
argument, while it laughs at milder
measures.

The man knew this, and yet, with the
stubborn calmness of his Northern blood, he
still sought to appeal to her reason. At
the same time, he attempted to rouse in
her some faint reflex of the passion within
his own heart. He took her two hands
again ; he drew her towards him, and
stooping till the soft wavy curls about her
temple touched his lips, he spoke fervently
and with flashing eyes that vainly sought
hers.

But she, forgetting that her two hands
were prisoners, that his arm was round her,
and that his hungering Hps were close to
her own, still clung to her argument merely
as an argument, and not with the feeble
resistance of one who has the faintest idea
of yielding.

And Charlotte Corday,' she said, ^ her
life was not thrown away.'

The man's patience was almost sublime,
but he relinquished her fingers suddenly with
a little movement, as if to cast her hands
away from him.

She !' he said bitterly — ' Charlotte Corday,
what good did she do ? Think you that
France would have been different now had
she never existed ? No, no ; events were
moving on slowly and irresistibly, she neither
accelerated nor retarded them ; and she has
left a lasting example of violence behind her
for other women to follow. Think, Marie —
think what you are doing ! It is murder,

the most vile of human crimes ; not even
murder with the extenuation of hot blood,
but a calm and unflinching thirst for the
life of a fellow-creature, and he a man who
has served his country as few men have.
He has fought an oj^en fight ; dealing with
the most treacherous and unreliable miscreants,
he has ever been the soul of honour ;
no mean subterfuge has stained the brilliancy
of his diplomatic skill — would that I could
say the same of our owen countrymen !'

By dint of praising this man, the passionate
young Russian student had gradually
grown into the habit of attributing to him
virtues which he perhaps did not possess.
Nevertheless he was^a true champion, though
he had taken up the sword from purely selfish
motives.

He may be doing his duty towards his
country,' said the girl, with the cool cruel
judgment of an Inquisitor, 'but from what
motives ? These Englishmen are no patriots ;

they do not possess that burning love for
their native land that lies in our Russian
hearts, Ivan. Think you they would go
cheerfully to the horrors of Siberia, content
that they had made one attempt, failure
though it may have been, to loosen one
stone of the structure they pit their helpless
strength against, as flies against a gravestone
? These English fight for the love of
fighting, whether it be with sword or pen ;
and then when it is over, they are quite
content to go home and spend their lives in
profitless leisure. No, Ivan ; do not speak
to me of duty to country, and of patriotism.
It may or it may not influence this man —
this . . . Winyard Mistley, for we do not
know him ; but if it is the case, he is not
like the rest of his countrymen. Ah, if I
could only meet some one who knows him,
who could give me some opinion as to his
motives ! He never speaks ; he never shows
himself ; you never hear his opinion quoted.

He seems to laugh at fame, and yet he is
the most powerful of them all. He works
silently, like a mole ; but when the work is
done he seems to forget it all, and is almost
a boy. What did MarlofF, the cleverest of
the Government agents, find out on the
voyage home to Suez ? Nothing, nothing
at all. He wrote to me of a light-hearted
recklessly merry boy, whom he could not
believe to be identical with the man he was
told to watch. He spoke of one who was
ever the foremost in organizing amusements
on board — think of that, Ivan, organizing
amusements and keeping the whole ship
merry and joyful ! Ah, it is maddening !
This man, who can find time between the
rounds of his amusements to outwit our
cleverest diplomatists, and then laughingly
resume his pleasure. I tell you he is laughing
at us, laughing at our best statesmen ;
and you speak to me of threatening such
a man as this ! It is strange . it is

strange — that he can be the brother . of
the sailor !'

The girl stood by the window in the
rapidly fading light, twining and intertwining
her slim white fingers, while her lips
quivered with an almost childish passion.

Marie said the young man, in a slow
cold tone, ' has it never struck you, has
the idea never passed through your brain,
that some one else is laughing at you ? Have
you never thought that the Government,
our own Government, whose duty it is to
watch over all its people, is making a tool
of you ? They fear this man, and with good
reason ; therefore they would not be sorry
if he were removed from their path. They
dare not suggest such an action, but they
dare to forward it indirectly, so long as they
are themselves safe from suspicion. They
pretend to know nothing of you, and to be
ignorant of your motive in coming to England
; but why was it made so easy for you

to leave Russia ? and why was I, the son of
a Xihihst, and myself a suspected Nihilist,
allowed to come to England with you ? Can
you not see that they do not wish to make
inquiries ? They allowed MarlofF to write
to you, because you pleaded a personal
interest in this man. For all they know,
this Englishman may have wronged you
personally ; doubtless they will say it was so.
'' Give the girl the information she requires,"
they would say ; and the letter would be
drafted from the Yasili Ostrov for MarlofF
to copy out in his own handwriting. If
you carry out this scheme, this mad scheme
of yours, Marie — think you that the Government
will say a word for you ? Xo ! they
will express to the English Government
their sincere regret that this dastardly assassination
should have been perpetrated by
a Russian ; an attache will attend his funeral,
and the English newspapers will by some
means get hold of the information that

there has always been madness in your
family !'

I have thought of that,' replied the girl,
and it only confirms my inward conviction
that I am working for the good of my
country. Ah, if I only knew his motives —
if I only knew him !'

The girl was much more influenced by her
own doubts than by the young man's arguments,
though perhaps these were indirectly
fostering her doubts.

He was not slow to see this, and take
advantage of it.

Well, then,' he urged, * wait ; wait and
watch him ; we may even get to know him.
They are different from us, these Englishmen,
for they can throw aside their work entirely
for a time, and take it up again where they
dropped it when the moment comes. He
will probably be doing nothing now for sometime,
and then who knows what his next
mission may be ? They are a universal

people these, and try many things ; they have
no discrimination in their judgment of men.
Do they not make statesmen of their generals,
and naval lords of their men of letters ?
Mistley may go into Parliament, and do
nothing more in the world.'

^ If he went into Parliament,' said the girl
forebodingly, ^ he would be more dangerous
still.'

Well,' urged the young man with pleading
eyes, ' but at all events give him a week
or a fortnight.'

Then I must leave this forsaken place,
and live in London,' said the girl with de .
termination.

Yes ; I will take lodgings in Bedford
Place, and you will join me there. You
will be my sister again, Marie.'

Yes, Ivan,' she said with a little weary
ring in her voice, as she laid her hand on
his ; ' I will be your sister again !'

He raised the cool, lifeless fingers to his

YOUNG MI ST LEY,

lips, and left her alone in the darkened
room, where the light of the sacred lamp
cast its ruddy gleams upon the calm faces
of the Holy Virgin and her Child.

O Colonel Wright this home-coming
was full of delight and sweet
anticipation. His life had been
broken uj^ by many wanderings, many campaigns,
and many separations. All that was
now to be left behind, and before him lay a
prospect of active leisure, a life of intellectual
ease, of pleasure and loving companionship.
He had passed so many years in the East,
that he brought home with him an Anglo-indian
freshness and energy for home-pleasures.
He was young enough to be still of
an active mind, and leisure with him by no
means meant idleness.

That first breakfast was an event to be
remembered. So clean, so bright, so home-ike
was everything. Surely there never
was a cloth so white, no silver ever shone
so brilliantly as those forks and spoons. And
never had happy father so fair, so dainty, so
sweet a daughter to pour out his coffee, with
just a little movement of shyness in the
curve of her rounded arm.

Then they are coming this evening V
remarked Lena when they were seated, looking
across the table towards her father
without ceasing her occupation of filling
a coffee-cup, which manoeuvre successfully
directed the nourishing beverage into the
saucer.

Mrs. Wright noted this result, and immediately
gazed intently at the ceiling with a
marvellous expression in her face, which
distinctly gave one to understand that she
saw the coffee in the saucer, knew how it
came there, and from the entire proceeding

deduced that it is always well to look before
one pours.

Yes,' replied the Colonel. ' They are
coming' this evenings the sailor beings included.'


Mother,' said Lena presently, ' have
you told papa about the invitation to 
?'

Yes, and he is quite ready to go.'

Oh, I am so glad ! Papa, it will be
simply lovely. Charlie has told me all about
it. It is a melancholy old house, built by
some remote Mistley, who was a cattle-lifter,
or a borderer, or something romantic. The
Mistley s have lived there ever since — in the
intervals between their wanderings. Great
bare hills all round, and a little colony of
pine-trees round the house, which is bleak
and gray, like an old fortress. Below the
house, at the foot of a sort of cliff, there is a
trout-stream, where you can fish all day ;
Charlie knows every inch of the stream,

VOL. I. 7 ^

and talks very wisely about flies, '' March-browns,"
'professors," and all sorts of imposing
names. Then we are going to get up
some theatricals ; we have arranged it all, and
chosen the piece. Charlie says that his
brother acts splendidly.'

Oh yes ! He can do that I' replied the
Colonel, sapiently wagging his head. ' He
is always acting. In fact, it is very hard
to say when he is, and when he is not. I
have watched him listening to a long story,
which he knew to be a fabrication from beginning
to end, and the childlike innocence
of his expression was a perfect study. He
is the very man for theatricals ; he was
always stage-managing something or other
out in India.'

Perhaps he will be too good for us,' suggested
Lena ; ' but it would be very nice to
have a really good actor for the principal
part, because the whole piece depends upon

it;

^ Charlie V suggested the Colonel, with the
ghost of a twinkle in his eye as he looked at
his wife.

Charlie won't take it,' replied Lena,
with perfect innocence. ' He insists upon
having a minor part, as he is to be stage-manager.'


What part do you act V asked Mrs.
Wright.

Well, we have not quite decided yet.
Charlie wants me to be the heroine, and a
Miss Sandford, who lives close to Broom
haugh, to take the part of a sprightly widow.
Now I think I would do for a sprightly
widow much better than for a devoted
heroine ; but Mrs. Mistley says no. Let
me see . if I were the widow, Winyard
Mistley would be my son — a source of endless
woe to his relations ; if I were the
heroine . oh . he would have to make
love to me !'

Ah ! he would do that,' said Colonel

7—2

Wright, with conviction. ' He would do that
well !'

I think I would rather be his mother,'
said Lena.

Nonsense !' exclaimed Mrs. Wright incredulously.


I once saw him making love,' began the
Colonel, in a tone somewhat suggestive of a
long story.

Indeed,' said Lena indifferently, and she
extended her hand towards the morning
paper.

Yes,' continued the Colonel. ' It was
one of the funniest sights I have ever seen,
and yet Mistley was as grave as a judge.
She was a Russian ; her complexion was of a
dull yellow ; she appeared to be ignorant of
the primary use of water, and she smoked
very bad cigars. Added to that, she was
somewhat older than his mother !'

Why did he do it ?' asked Lena, smiling
She was more interested now in the

little story, and had laid aside the newspaper.


^ He wanted some information which we
knew her to possess.'

Are you sure sou did not make love to
her too V asked Mrs. Wright with a smile,
which the old soldier fully appreciated.

I tried,' was the candid reply, ' but could
not get on at all. The best of it was that
she half suspected what he was about ; but
she was so anxious to get some information
out of him, that she encouraged his love-making.
In fact, it was a game of cross-purposes.'


^ And who won ?' asked Lena.

Oh, he did,' replied the Colonel, and he
returned to his toast as if there could only
have been one answer to that question.

Presently, after some moments spent in
deep thought, Lena looked up with a twinkle
of merriment hovering in her eyes.

^ I think, papa,' she said, ' that he will do

very well for the part we wish him to take.
Your description of him sounds dark and
mysterious, and that is what we want.'

Excuse me, little one. I never said he
was dark and mysterious. As it happens,
he is rather fair and the very reverse of
mysterious, for he is open and almost boyish ;
though, indeed, his manner changes so much
and so suddenly, that it is nearly impossible
to say when he is in earnest or in fun.
Generally the latter, I think.'

'■ Because,' continued the girl, ' it is a villain's
part — a very nice villain, though !'

'The part he takes in life is that of the light
comedian, I think,' said the Colonel, thoughtfully
stirring his coffee. ' He usually plays
the light comedian to my heavy schemer,
if I may put it thus ; but then it is only because
he has found it convenient to do so.
People consider him a frivolous light-hearted
boy, and he is content that they should do
so ; but I know him to be different. The

fellow is a born organizer, foreseeing everything,
ready for every emergency, which he
meets with that imperturbable smile of his,
as if he were enjoying himself immensely.'

I am rather afraid of this paragon,' said
Mrs. Wright, rising from the table.

My dear,' replied the Colonel, who was
occupied in selecting a cigarette from a very
highly-polished leather case, ' if it were not
for this paragon, I should very probably
not be sittings here now. You must not let
my praises prejudice you against him, as
praise is very apt to do. Winyard Mistley
is a clever fellow, and what is better still, he
is sincere. He does his work well, and he
does it because he loves it. It is such menas
he who get on in the world — provided
they do not marry.'

Why should the poor man not marry,
papa V asked Lena, who was busy with some
flowers at a side-table.

Simply because marriage would completely

spoil his career. You see, a man
cannot go roaming about in disguise in the
heart of Central Asia, when he has a young
wife fretting her life away at home.'

Lena looked round, and then turned again
to her flowers, which she continued to arrange
thoughtfully for some moments. This was a
new phase in man's existence which her
father presented. She had hitherto (with
some excuse, for she was young and fair)
considered that love and marriage were the
two crowning events of a man's life, around
which all those dreary years of early youth
and late old age circled like planets round
the sun, gaining their light, their very being,
therefrom. And now her father, who was
no cynic, calmly laid the fact before her, that
a man may find a life's happiness in the building
up of a career, in imjDrinting upon the
sands of time his own particular footstep.
And (alas, poor Cupid !) what was still more
lamentable, there was on the face of it a

certain reason in the argument that love and
a wife could, on occasion, be nothing less
than encumbrances.

She was not by any means convinced, however,
and smiled a little to herself. You
and I, fellow-traveller, can smile a little
too. Tt know what a fell destroyer of man's
career that tinv-wino^ed o^od can be, when
once he o'ets his ranee and settles to his aim.
We know that ambition crumbles away before
love, as a sandheap before the rising
tide. But Lena knew none of this. She
only felt that there was something ^^^'ong,
or that there sJwv.Id be, in this argument ;
and her next question was of some weight.

Is that his view of the case, or yours ?'
she asked demurely.

Mine, but Mist ley knows it to be true.'

And,' continued Lena very indifferently,
will it be his mission to roam about in
Central Asia in disguise ?'

Probably,' replied the Colonel, who

promptly seized this little opening to launch
forth upon his favourite topic. ' Probably.
You see, he is the only living man who
knows his way about those parts. There is
no doubt about it that the movements of our
white-coated friends must be watched closely,
and the Government are beginning to recognise
it. Mistley is the man to do it, and if
they send anyone they will send him. It
will be a difficult mission and a dangerous
one ; what we have been doing is mere child's
play compared to it. I am getting too old for
it now. The old folks have to make way
for the young ones sooner than they quite
bargain for ; but I make way for Mistley with
pleasure, for I know that he will do the work
better than ever I could ! And it will need
the best men we have ; there is more going
on out there than people think. It is a
strangely overlooked land ; people here think
of it only by fits and starts, once in every
six months or so, while all the time those

fellows are working and scheming ; plotting
with native potentates, learning the resources
of the country, and generally forwarding the
cause of Holy Russia. One day Central
Asia will be opened out, suddenly and completely,
by the biggest fight the world has
ever seen. It has not come in my time, it
may not come in Mistley's ; but come it
will, as sure as fate.'

Lena remembered these remarks later,
when she could compare with them Winyard
Mistley's views upon the subject, of which
he was accredited with so great a knowledge.
The younger man took a less alarming view
of the case ; but while exercising a greater
reservation, he spoke with a certain confidence,
which, however, might or might not
have been sincere. Winyard Mistley had a
peculiar aversion to the subject of his travels,
past or future, being discussed in the presence
of ladies, and by some instinct the Colonel
avoided any such mention when he was there.

It is to be feared that, beyond a mere objection
to talking * shop,' Mistley had rather a
poor opinion of a lady's discretion. Like
many a wiser and more experienced man,
he was of the opinion that politics are no
woman's study. Even in his limited diplomatic
experience, he had found means of
discovering that in any phase or walk of
life, a woman has not the power of sinking
her individuality. Her own personality
is uncrushable ; those strange unreasoning
opinions, instinctive hatreds, and unaccountable
loves which we men can never understand
and never be too thankful for, clearly
demonstrate that she was not constructed or
intended for that cold, selfish science we call
politics.

I know,' said Lena, partly to herself and
partly to her mother, when the Colonel had
left the room — ' I know I shall be disappointed
in him.'

Mrs. Wright said nothing She was standing

near the window with the newspaper in
her hand ; but she was looking over it into
the sunt street. She was thinking of the
lives of two women who had married soldiers
lives that had not been quite a success —
lives made up of weary waiting and anxious
watching ; and running through these
thoughts was a vague desire that this visit
to Broomhaugh might yet be avoided.

HE language of conversation is
woefully limited. Whatever our
feelings or our nature may be,
we say what we wish to say by usage in precisely
the terms that usage may dictate, and
in the self-same words as are employed by
thousands of other mortals to express the
passing thought. Thus we may pass hours
in the presence of a fellow-creature — hours
made pleasant by the flow of easy conversation,
and yet at the end we know no more
of that fellow-creature's inward soul than we
did at the beginning. Opinions may have
been exchanged, but doubtless they were

nothing more than mechanical phrases expressing
a stereotype idea. Views of men
and things may have been asked and given ;
but these views are as original and individual
as the colourless photographs of a lovely
scene with which enterprising manufacturers
of useless little wooden boxes love to disfigure
their wares, and which cannot fail to
impress upon every observer the fact that
they are turned out by the dozen. The
truth is, that our thoughts are the slaves of
the tongue. They may conceive wondrous
ideas and opinions, but the tongue refuses to
speak them — it prefers the well-trodden paths
of easy and ready-made phrases. When, however,
we take up a ^^i\, our thoughts often
gain the upper hand. Old conceits, long
overlooked, wake up in the silent pigeon-lisle
of the brain where they were hidden ;
and lo ! — set down in black and white, to be
read by the world and sacred to none, are
the secret thoughts we would not dare to

speak to any living being. It seems that
the pen has the power of making men forget
their vain individuality.

But, thank Heaven, it is not vouchsafed
to all, this outlet of the j^en 1 Many put their
thoughts into music ; many into pictures ;
and some into song. Of these, the musicians
are the more numerous. Not that they
compose music, and thus express what in
them lies ; but, in playing on whatsoever
instrument, the music of whatsoever composer,
their whole soul goes into their fingers,
and they forget their audience, they forget
everything. For them the allegros and
pianos and j^l^Pl^'^ have no meaning. The
composer's intention comes to them instinctively,
and all they know is that the harmony
in some manner fits into the train of
their own unexpressed thoughts. Perhaps
this is why we may hear sweeter, truer
music from a girl practising in an empty
room than has ever thrilled out from a

platform, over the heads of an appreciative
audience.

Lena singing and Lena in everyday life
were two very different persons. To the
ordinary world she was merry and lighthearted,
rather frivolous perhaps, totally
without romance, and probably heartless.
So thought such people as had never heard
her sing, or had not attended while she was
singing ; or again, whom she did not consider
worth singing to. Combined with a
sweet, clear voice and a true ear, she had
the rare power of imparting a meaning to
the words she sano\ No sono of hers ever
seemed trivial or senseless. In wandering
through the world, it has usually been the
experience of the present writer to hear a
drawing-room audience burst into rapturous
Thank you's ' and ' Who is that by's ?' the
very instant that the last note of the singer's
voice had died away. \Yhen Lena Wright
ceased sino-ina, there was generally a little

VOL. I. 8

pause before anyone expressed their thanks.
It is of no great importance perhaps, this
momentary silence, but yet it may be worth
mentioning. Sometimes Lena noticed it,
and then a passing look of embarrassment
came into her eyes as she turned from the
piano.

Most people had known the Lena of everyday
life first, and first impressions hold to the
memory like a woman to her argument —
through contradiction and undeniable evidence,
through ridicule and sober reasoning.
Those obstinate first impressions never die;
and we look back through the greater events
and crises of a friendship to them, and believe
in them still. Thus it was that Lena Wright
had, among certain of her friends, the reputation
of being somewhat worldly, a little
frivolous, and not entirely averse to mild flirtation.
No one accredited her with any share
of that shy romance which, to a girl, is as the
dewdrop to the tender bud. There were, it

may be mentioned in passing, two notable exceptions
to this rule — an old and a young man,
both of whom were gifted with a singularly
reliable power of observation. Laurance Lowe
looked upon Lena as a fair replica of the fairest
human picture he had ever studied ; and he
could not well make a mistake, as he himself
had blended the colours for both. It does not
often occur that a man influences the life of
mother and daughter in the same way ; but
when such does happen, the two women will
be very similar in character. Charles Mistley
was the second exception ; he had only kno^vn
Lena for three years ; but that dangerous
intimacy which springs up between the children
of old friends had grown rapidly with
these two, and he knew the girl's character
and nature as her own mother did not know
them. A dangerous study for a youno- man,
you will say — these inner deaths of a maiden's
heart ! Alas ! perhaps it is so ; but fire is a
mighty pleasant plaything, and has been found

8—2

so since man existed, and maidens smiled
upon him !

It happened that Winyard Mistley heard
Lena sing before he spoke with her ; and in
after years that first impression remained uppermost
in his mind. He never afterwards
doubted the presence of a deep true woman's
heart beneath the gay and almost frivolous
manner she chose to assume before the world.
Perhaps he was judging in some degree from
himself He knew that the gay and somewhat
shallow youth, known to the generality
as Winyard Mistley, was not the true inner
thinking man, whose ambition was fortunately
tempered with a whole-hearted sense of patriotism
rarely met with in these self-seeking
times.

When Winyard arrived at the door of
Colonel Wright's house in Seymour Street,
the postman was just turning away from it,
having dropped a letter into the box and given
his recognised rap. Thus Jarvis, the old

soldier-servant, saw the shadow of a visitor
upon the ground-glass of the door when he
came for the letters, and did not wait for a
second knock. The old warrior knew who
this brown-faced stranger was at once, and
stepped back, holding the door wide open.

Lena was sinofino- in a small room immediately
opposite the entrance, and the door
of this room was wide open. The old soldier's
movements were quick and noiseless as a
soldier's movements should be ; but Winyard
was quicker, and with a touch of his hand he
stopped Jarvis fi^om going forward to announce
him.

^ Wait a moment !' he whispered.

Lena sang on unconsciously. She had
heard the postman's knock, and recognised
it ; but was not expecting any particular
letter, and therefore did not interrupt her
song.

The two men stood outside the door, and
listened in silence. The old soldier whose

fighting-days were done, and the young man
whose time was yet to come. One a sturdy,
powerful figure, very straight, with a peculiarly
flat back and a square honest face — the
other somewhat taller, of lighter build, lean
and wiry, active as a cat. They could just
see Lena's shoulder, and the play of her white
hand and wrist. Occasionally, as she swayed
a little to one side with the rhythm of her
music, they caught sight of her dainty head,
with the soft dry hair drawn well up and
clustering down again.

It was a strange song that this lighthearted
maiden was sinoinsf to herself, while
awaiting the arrival of her mother's guests.
A ' Farewell,' sweet and low as the sound of
the sea at night when the sunset breeze is
dying. There was a mournful, almost hopeless
swing in the old-fashioned air ; but the
words were brave and strong. The words of
a true woman to the lover she was sending
away for ever ; for a woman is always the

braver where love has no earthly hope. It
was a song written and composed by a woman
who was white-haired and a grandmother
when Lena sang it; the only musical work of
her life — the one sad song of her heart. Never
having been printed, it was little known ; and
Lena had copied it from the manuscript-book
of a school-friend. It happened that the girl
was in the humour for singing on that particular
evening. The day had been an eventful
one, and she was looking forward to the evening.
All this made her sing as she had rarely
sung before.

When the last note of the accompaniment
had died away, Lena swung rather suddenly
round upon the music-stool, and found herself
face to face with Winyard. He was
standing with his overcoat still upon his arm,
and at first Lena thought that it was Charles
Mistley. So quick was her movement that
she caught Winyard looking grave — a luxury
he rarely indulged in.

Instantly Lena rose, and although she
blushed, she smiled with perfect self-possession.


Mr. Mistley,' she said, extending her
hand, ' I never heard you come in.'

Then they shook hands, and Jarvis vanished
With Winyard's coat.

I am afraid,' said Mistley, looking a trifle
guilty, ' that I have been standing outside
since the end of the first verse.'

Lena gave a little laugh, which was not
quite free from embarrassment.

That was rather mean,' she said.

I am afraid it was impertinent,' said Win-yard
quickly, ' now that I come to think of
it ; but at the moment I hardly thought of
what I was doing. You see, I came in with
the letters, and then, as soon as I stepped
inside the door, I heard . . . you singing.
I am afraid I prevented the man from interrupting
you. I could not help it. You must
make some allowance for a wanderer whose

manners have sufterecl, Miss Wright. You
see, I have not heard anything . . . like that
for three years, and I could not resist hearing
it all ! Do you think I should have said
'^ Ahem !" or banged my umbrella into the
stand so as to let you know that some one
was listening V

'Xo doubt,' replied Lena, 'that would
have been the proper course to pursue ; but
it does not matter much, I suppose. If you
like to listen to people practising, there is no
actual harm in it. Let us go upstairs to the
drawing-room. Our respective mothers are
there. Papa is dressing, and Charlie has
not come yet.'

Lena stopped rather abruptly, and led the
way upstairs. It suddenly struck her that
the Charlie whose name came so naturally
from her lips was this man's brother, and
that her easy manner of speaking of him
must sound objectionable familiar.

Inward o^ave her no time to think of it,

however. He saw the passing embarrassment,
and came to her relief at once.

I have not seen Charlie,' he said quietly,
as he followed her, ' since he went to sea.
He could not get away from Greenwich till
this evening, and of course the Colonel and
I have been spending a happy day at the
Foreign Office. I suppose he is a great big
fellow now ; he was rather weedy when I
went to India, but there was a promise of
great strength about him.'

I think,' said the girl softly, ' he is the
strongest man I have ever seen.'

Winyard looked u|) quickly into her face,
which he could now see, as she had turned
at the to23 of the stairs to wait for him.

In every sense of the word ?' he asked,
for he thought he detected a deeper meaning
in the tone of her voice than the mere words
conveyed.

But he never received his answer, for at
that moment the drawing-room door opened,

and Mrs. Wright came forward to receive
him.

It is striking seven she said with a smile.
'You are here to the minute. I know now
how it is that you never hurry, and always
have time for everything, as the Colonel tells
me you have. I need not introduce you two,
apparently.'

No, it is not necessary, thank you,' replied
Mistley, standing aside to allow Lena
to pass into the room. ' We have settled
all that, and I have got myself into trouble
already !'

^ How so V

By listening.'

Did you hear any good of yourself ?'
asked Mrs. Mistley, who was waiting for
them in the inner drawling room.

I heard the most pathetic song I have
ever heard,' returned Winyard, glancing at
Lena.

Pathos being so very much in my line !'

laughed Lena, as she dropped into a low
seat.

And in Winyard's 1' added that youth's
mother merrily. ^ You are neither of you
very likely subjects, I am afraid 1'

Winyard Mistley laughed, a clear, practical,
ready laugh, as he sat down in obedience
to Mrs. Wright's gesture, and then quietly
changed the subject.

^ The mariner is late,' he said.

The mariner,' observed Mrs. Wright,
with a mock severity which betrayed a kindly
feeling towards its object, ' has a gentle way
of lounging serenely in about ten minutes
late upon most occasions. Never more than
ten minutes, mind ; and he does it so unobtrusively,
so calmly, and so good-naturedly,
that one cannot be angry with him. By-the-bye,
Winyard — I suppose I may call
you Winyard — when I said that we Avould
be a family party this evening, in case you
should be tired with your journey '

Mister is never tired,' said Colonel
Wright parenthetically as he entered the
room, and after carefully raising his trousers
so as to avoid draofoinof them at the knees,
he sat down.

Mrs. Wright nodded in acquiescence, and
continued :

When I said we would be a family party,
I forgot that it would be necessary to explain
that Laurance Lowe would be here.
To your mother such an explanation was
unnecessary, as she knows our ways. Mr.
Lowe is such an old friend, that we consider
him one of the family, you understand.'

I think,' said Colonel Wright, in his
peculiarly slow and somewhat hesitating
manner, ' I think that Mistley knows a good
deal about Laurance Lowe. You see, we
had a large amount of spare time ui^on our
hands out there ; morning passers were not
readily procurable, Muche's was some way
ofl", and altogether we were thrown a good

deal upon each other's society, so we talked
of home. Eh, Mistley V

Yes,' chimed in Winyard cheerfully ;
we got quite learned in each other's family
affairs, and by dint of hearing extracts from
letters, began to take an absorbing interest in
the doings of people we knew nothing whatever
about. I shall be glad to meet Mr. Lowe.

^ Laurance Lowe said the Colonel sturdily,
is the most silent man and the truest friend
I have ever known.'

Winyard Mistley nodded with a peculiar
little acquiescent smile, which meant that
he was not thinking very much about the
subject under discussion.

^ A silent friend,' he said presently, with
a great show of gravity, ' is as rare as he is

valuable I think I hear Mr. Lowe

upon the stairs.'

The next moment the door opened, and
Laurance Lowe entered the room, closely followed
by Charles Mistley.

CHAPTER Viii.

m

HE old man entered in his usual
slow and deliberate manner. The

Colonel advanced to meet him with
outstretched hand and a hearty word of
greeting.

Ah, Laurance, I am glad to see you !
There's life in the old dogs yet, although
the vouno' ones are oTowinof so big around
us!'

Lowe answered never a word. He took
the outstretched hand in his thin strong
fingers, and bowed as he pressed it with a
quaint old-fashioned courtesy.

In the meantime the two brothers had met.

Hallo, Charlie 1'

Well, Win r

They were close to Lena when they shook
hands, and she heard the characteristic
greeting. She also saw the long slow glance
of their eyes as each noted the work of the
last three years in the development, bodily
and mental, of the other's forces.

As they stood thus together before her,
she saw with feminine rapidity of thought
that there was not such a marked resemblance
between the brothers as she had at
first imagined. What likeness there was
lay rather in manner and carriage than in
feature. She saw now that Charlie was a
much bigger man than his brother ; also
that he was fairer and with blue eyes, while
Winyard's were gray and quick in their
glance. In one, the slow, sure characteristics
of a Saxon predominated ; in the other, the
quicker organization of a Dane.

Lena's comparisons were at this moment

interrupted by her father, who came up and
shook hands with Charles Mistley, dispensing
with an introduction.

^ Ah he said genially, ' you should have
been a soldier instead of a sailor ! You are
too big a fellow to be cramped up in a
torpedo-boat I am afraid we old soldiers
think that every man should be a red-coat,
and perhaps we're right after all. I know
that every time I hear the roll of the drum
or the tread of trained feet, I look down for
the fold lace on mv arm, and think that if I
had another life to live, I would try soldiering
again.'

Winyard Mistley had turned away, and
across the room his eves met Laurance Lowe's
calm ofaze. Mrs. Wrioiit had been watchings
in anticipation of that moment, and
now she hastened to introduce them formally.
One great secret in Winyard Mistley's success
was his ready adaptability to the circumstances
in which he was placed as to

VOL. I. 9

social surroundings. With the merry he
could be merry, and silent with the silent.
This was no tour de force with him, but a
happy gift of which he was not fully conscious.
Without devoting even a passing
thought to the matter, he shook hands with
Laurance Lowe without saying a word. The
strength of the grip he received caused him
some little surprise ; but this was not betrayed
in the genial gravity of his eyes ashe
met Lowe's solemn gaze.

To the young fellow, who, like all born
travellers, was a keen observer of human
nature, this unobtrusive old man was intensely
interesting. He was too intelligent
to fall into the common error of considering
Laurance Lowe a mere cipher in Mrs.
Wright's circle of friends. His silence was
not the natural reserve of a self-absorbed
man ; nor did it emanate from the simple
fact that his brain was fallow, and that he
had nothing to say. Before the evening

was far advanced, Winyard had established
these two discoveries to his own satisfaction,
without betraying to anyone that he was
watching Laurance Lowe. He observed that
the old man followed the conversation, which,
among such closely-allied friends, was perforce
general ; that no remark passed unheard,
no sally was missed ; but that he
never spoke unless he was directly addressed,
which occurred frequently on Lena's dart,
occasionally with the Colonel, and rarely
with Mrs. Wright. Winyard also observed
that whenever Lowe met Lena's eyes, the
lines of his face, which were deeply drawn,
especially immediately over his moustache,
relaxed somewhat, and that a faint motion
of his lips beneath the silky white hair took
place. These phenomena constituted a
smile.

There was, in Lowe, no desire to pose asa
man with a story ; a blighted being who
lived in a hopeless past, whose interest in

9—2

life was dead. Indeed, nothing gave him
so much pleasure as to sit as he was sitting
this evening, among intelligent women, and
travelled, genial men ; to listen to their
views on men and things, however frivolous,
however ridiculous, and to add that shadowy
smile of his to the general merriment. And,
when he was referred to, he invariably proved
that his humour consisted of more than the
mere appreciation of humour in others ; which
is like the reflection of a candle in a mirror,
inasmuch as it is light, but not original
light. Many of us are capital mirrors ; but
without the candle we are woefully dull.

Strange to say, it was these little flashes
of humour that caused Winyard to realize
the living pathos of this old man's existence.
They came as a suggestion of wasted capabilities,
of powers unheeded, of opportunities
wilfully ignored. There is pathos in the
sight of a man who, having tried, has failed ;
but infinitely greater sadness is there in the

contemplation of him who will not try because
he is indifferent. Winyard Mistley
was just at that age when a young man is
perhaps a little too self-confident (a fault
which soon wears itself away). He was full
of energy and life, and quite ready to try
his capabilities upon any task — not with the
blind self-reliance of conceit, but with a
brave knowledge that he was ready to do
his best, which might, after all, prove as
good as the same commodity from the hands
of any other man. If the situation of Prime
Minister had at that time been offered to
him, it is possible that he would cheerfully
have expressed his willingness to try. To
him, therefore, the sight of Laurance Lowe,
a man whom he instinctively recognised as
clever and capable — the sight of him, aimless,
hopeless, indifferent, was not only pathetic,
but it was disheartening and disquieting.
Could it be that this energy, this restless
desire to be pressing forward in the great

race, this qualified ambition, was only a
momentary incentive ? Could it be that
there are, after all, other things in life worth
striving for than fame, and the glory of
placing one's chiselled stone in the great
structure of an empire ? Winyard Mistley's
love of his country was exceedingly great ;
but, after all, it was only human, and we all
know that in the flower of every human love
there is a gnawing worm called Self, which,
though often unseen, is sufficient to render
it but a poor misshapen shadow of that other
love of which we talk so much and know so
little.

The young diplomatist knew well enough
that the poorest in the land, the very humblest
cripple of a shoeblack, may be a loyal
and true patriot ; but he also knew that for
all the good such loyalty and patriotism
could do, the man might as well be a black-hearted
traitor. Therefore his ambition ran
very smoothly with his sense of patriotism,

upon the principle that the higher he combed
the farther could his voice be heard.

It was not until after the ladies had left
the room that the conversation turned upon
the subject dearest to the Colonel's heart ;
and then Mistley learnt with some surprise
that upon this, as on every other question
that had been raised, Laurance Lowe knew
something. This tongue-tied, callous Englishman
was one of the few who from the enervating
security of peaceful Britain could look
afar with watchful eyes and note the risftig
of that tiny cloud in the East, which at times
seems about to rend the heavens with the
fury of its liofhtninof, and then ao^ain will
dwindle away to mere vapour, floating over
the blue ether of time. Winyard, being of
a colder, less enthusiastic nature than the
Colonel, was more correct in his reading of
the public opinion in England upon matters
Indian and Colonial. He was well aware that
a fresh and daring encroachment upon the

frontier of our Indian Empire would rivet the
gaze of every Englishman upon the sullen
movements of the aggressor for the whole
space of a week, provided some fresh excitement,
some thrilling murder in Paris, or a
shipwreck attended with graphic details, did
not usurp its place in the public interest. But
beyond that he was too wise to expect anything.
He recognised, therefore, that Laurence
Lowe was more learned on this question
than the majority of Englishmen. But in
this, as in everything, Winyard found that
strange lack of enthusiasm, and even of interest.
He found that Lowe's observations,
keen and far-sighted as they were, confined
themselves to the mere indifferent criticism of
a looker-on, whose life or happiness could in
no way be affected by future events.

Thus it came about that Laurance Lowe,
who was no favourite with young men, added,
that evening, to his scanty circle of admirers.
The attraction, also, was naturally in some

degree mutual, as such friendships invariably
are. Lowe was prejudiced greatly in Win-yard's
favour from the mere fact that he had
proved such a valuable assistant to Colonel
Wright, and also as the brother of Charles
Mistley.

Lena also had that evening cast a little
seed upon the broad earth by the mere singing
of a plaintive song. It had fallen upon a
spot where other seeds had taken root, and
grew in strength already ; but within that
little germ lay power and life to outgrow them
all in strength and height and splendour.

WAY up in the gently undulating
land that rolls northward from
the Cheviotss to the Lammermuir
and Pentland Hills lies the little town of
Walso. Indeed, it lies upon the downward
slope of Cheviot ; and the clean streets, now
grass-grown and silent, have many a grim tale
to tell of the warm blood trickling down their
fetters into the Qf-lancins;' river, if stones could
only speak. Walso is a town with a past
history such as fcAv can boast of — a history
full of brave deeds and fierce horror, for it
stood in the very midst of Border warfare

when the Cheviot burns ran blood, and the
teat silent hills echoed the rino- of steel.

But now all that is past, and from it has
gro\\Ti up a jDrim clean little town, paved
throughout with spotless stone. No brick
in all the burgh can be found — stone, stone
everywhere, as strong and clean and sturdy
as any Walso man. Side by side the gray
houses are set down, shoulder to shoulder as
the brave old brothers were wont to stand
when the Borderers were out. Ujd and down
these narrow streets pass to-day a race of
grave-faced men and tall women. Men with
honos slow limbs and broad shoulders, brown
faces, golden hair, and gray eyes. These
same gray eyes are strangely direct in then-gaze,
looking into one as if they were looking
into the sea-fret — as, indeed, they do during
half the year. Up the broad valley from the
North Sea this fret comes stealing like a gray
veil all moist with tears, and envelops Walso,
with its attendant hills, in mystery. And so

the men possess a peculiar contraction of the
eyeHds, which makes shifty eyes feel shiftier
and so the women are blessed with complexions
as purely pink and white as sunset
over snow.

Life up here is conducted upon a slower
principle than in the bustling South. Slow
of movement, slow of speech ; but wondrous
sure is this tall race of men and women.
Taciturn about themselves, and not too genial
to strangers, the men are reputed to be very
shrewd and far-sighted, especially in matters
pertaining to pasture, wool, and ' beasteses.'
In fact, they, one and all, appear entirely
capable of managing their own affairs. The
women in Walso, as also (I am led to understand)
in other parts of the world, must necessarily
be of superior intellect to their spouses,
as they find time not only to manage their
own affairs, but also those of every other
woman in and around their native town. One
worthy woman there was, however, who by

experience had learnt discretion in its closest
sense. This was Mrs. Ai-strong, who let
lodoinofs in the Hio^h Street. Her lodgers
were mostly of the same habits and inclinations
; in fact, they were all trout fishermen.
The pavement of the High Street, which had
rung beneath many an armed heel, now
knew again the touch of steel, but of a more
peaceful metal. Day after day these patient
antlers slouched down the street towards the
river, taking long ungainly steps and swing-ins:
their heavily clad feet and leg's with a
slow rhythm which indicated powers of long
endurance. These same anglers were no ornaments
to Walso society, for it must be confessed
that their appearance was uniformly
disgraceful. One and all affected a very loose
tweed coat, much dragged and misshapen by
the creel-strap ; a tweed cap of a different
pattern, embellished with the gleam of gut
and gaudy fly ; a short pipe and a long stride ;
stained waders, and greasy brogues. In the

morning they tramped heavily over the stones,
with many a screech of polished nail and heel-plate
; in the evening they slouched along,
leaving little trails of water after them. All
wore the same calmly contemplative expression
; for yom trout fisherman, whatever he
may be in ordinary life, is a meditative being
when he gets within sound of running water :
loving solitude and seeking it, yet ready with
a genial nod or word of greeting.

But now it happened that the busy tongues
had really something tangible to thresh out
between them, for Mrs. Armstrong had let
her lodofinofs to a stranger much more interesting
than an unobtrusive, indifferent
fisherman. This was no other than a young
lady, ^ a surrender,' as was generally supposed.
The worst of it was, that no one in Walso
could put forward, for the general benefit
and information, a single fact concerning her.
Mrs. Currie, the station-master's wife, had
seen her descend from the train, and was at

first inclined to consider her a ' likely enough '
young lady — whatever that distinction might
be worth — but on overhearing an inquiry as
to whether lodgings where obtainable in the
village, the worthy matron at once withdrew
her mental observation. She had naturally
expected that this was another visitor for
Broomhaugh, as she understood that Mrs.
Mistley had many ' surrendering ' acquaintances
; but that a young woman, ^ ay, an'
wi' good looks, too,' should arrive alone — that
is to say, with no other companion than a
diminutive maid, who spoke no word of
honest English — why, the thing was ^ .'


This event, following close upon the arrival
at Broomhaugh of Mrs. Mistley, young Mr.
Winyard, and several guests, among whom
was a real ' cornel,' proved almost too much
for Walso. This sudden influx of other folk's
affairs in want of management was unprecedented,
and it is to be feared that, in their

zeal for the good of others, many prominent
ladies of Walso neglected sadly their own
interests. Several tins of embryo bread, set
before the fire on baking-day for the purpose
of ^ rising,' were allowed to rise and fall again
by reason of evaporation ; and the two Misses
Currie where disappointed of their new white
dresses on Wednesday evening, because Miss
Eghye allowed her tongue to overrule her
needle. Their first dressmaker-made dresses,
too !

As it was more or less generally understood
that Mrs. Mistley was in some degree
capable of managing her own affairs (though
the advice of an experienced woman such as
Mrs. Currie could surely never come amiss),
the greater share of public criticism and
assistance was kindly accorded to the young-lady
of foreign proclivities who enjoyed the
hospitality of Mrs. Armstrong's roof Now,
this young lady was no other than Miss Marie
Bakovitch, or, as she was pleased to call herself

uj^on occasions, the Baroness de Castille
a title enjoyed by her mother before that
lady married the Odessa merchant, Peter
Bakovitch, her second matrimonial venture.

With a gentle wonder at the glibness of
her own tongue, the Qfirl had told Mrs.
Armstrong on arriving that she expected her
brother Ivan in a few days. The old woman
knew the responsibility of her position too
well to abuse it by retailing to her neighbours
incidents that might be injurious to
her lodgers ; but the ways of this vague
fair-haired girl were not her ways, and Mrs.
Armstrong positively ached to confide the
fruits of her observations to the ear of some
sympathetic soul. According to her simple
code of honour, she was bound by the laws
of hospitality to protect and defend any
person temporarily under her roof ; and,
although there were many facts sorely troublesome
to her mind — such as the affixing to
her walls of a small picture of the Virgin

VOL. I. 10

and Child, and the constant illumination of
the same by an uncouth and uncanny little
oil-lamp — Mrs. Armstrong succeeded in containing
herself until the arrival of Ivan Meyer
at Walso.

This took place two days later than the
advent of Marie Bakovitch herself, and before
the wonder of her coming had been fully discussed
or exhausted.

Meyer soon discovered that the silence of
the absorbed and dreamy girl was more likely
to do harm than a discreet straightforwardness
of speech. He therefore informed Mrs.
Armstrong of sundry particulars concerning
himself and his sister Marie. Without ill-treating
the truth, he slipped round about it
by that same path which at first looks so
broad and easy, but soon becomes tortuous
and hard to trace with reliant clearness.

Himself he described as an artist desirous
of immortalizing some of the charming hillside
stream-beds hitherto familiar to fishermen

alone. His sister Marie was delicate,
of a nervous temperament, which could not
fail to benefit by contact with folk of such
well-known self-reliance and sturdiness of
character. He was afraid that London, in
which restless city they had been sojourning,
was not by any means the proper habitation
for poor Marie ; but Mrs. Ai-strong would
understand that a needy artist was compelled
to live where there was a demand for pictures.


^ Ay, bootless, bootless,' replied Mrs. Armstrong.
' I cinna ha'ad much by pictures
myself', but there's folks that likes them !'

Ye-es, Mrs. Armstrong,' responded Meyer,
without having the faintest conception of the
food lady's meaning • but he knew the value
of agreeing with a woman, especially if she
be from the North country.

This and more he told her, for the purpose
of having it spread through Walso, even as
the seeds are spread over the earth by windy

10—2

impulse ; but the tongue of a Walso woman
could ever beat the wind.

Ivan Meyer was young, and therefore full
of hope, which is essentially a flower of springtide
growth. To have constant intercourse
with Marie Bakovitch was to this patient
lover a source of happiness. His cold Northern
blood allowed his mind such thorough
control over his heart, and those latent passions
which exist deep down in the soul of
every man, be his eyes of calm blue or fiery
black, that he could, at her bidding, in very
truth cast away the lover and become a
brother.

He still hoped to persuade the girl, whom
he in his simplicity looked upon as possessed
for the time being by a mental disease —
though he did not suspect that the doctors
had already commenced to give it a name —
to give up her mad project of serving her
country by a useless murder. Also he
hoped, by the constant influence of his presence,

to turn her thoughts to other things,
and to bring back the sweet and merry little
Marie of his boyhood. Yet behind the
sublime Hight of Hope he vaguely felt the
presence of a cloud. A dull misgiving was
ever at the portals of his heart, awaiting
the night hour, or the aid of some passing
untoward circumstance, to effect an entrance.

He rather dreaded the first mention of
the subject which occupied the girl's mind,
and, though he did his best to talk of other
topics, she took the very earliest opportunity
of bringing it forward.

Mrs. Armstrong had just cleared away
the remains of their simple evening meal,
and set the lamp on the table. Meyer produced
his portfolio and spoke of his latest
sketches ; but the girl quietly placed her
hand upon it so as to keep it closed, and
looking across the table she forced him to
meet her eyes, and said slowly :

Ivan, what news have you ?'

^ He is here,' replied the young artist reluctantly.


^ At Broomhaugh ?'

At Broomhaugh. His mother is there
also ; Colonel Wright, his wife and daughter
as well.'

Marie Bakovitch sat for some moments
in silence. Her hands, very white and
beautifully formed, where lying upon the
green tablecloth, with a peculiar stillness
which was characteristic of the girl. It was
a stillness without peace. Without raising
her eyes she said presently :

And the other — the sailor V Her voice
was singularly calm and indifferent.

^ He comes in a fortnight. At present
he is detained by his duties at Chatham or
Greenwich, my informant could not say
which.'

When did the Mistleys come V

On Monday, the same day as you
Marie.'

The girl nodded her head, as if in silent
confirmation of Meyer's statement.

Have you seen Marlow V she asked
suddenly.

I have.'

And you have the photograph, Ivan ?'

No,' replied Meyer, shaking his head
slowly. ^ The photograph has been destroyed
such were his orders !'

But you have the verbal description.'

^ Yes . . .'

What is it ?'

'^ Of medium height, square shoulders.
Looks military, walks lightly, is agile in his
movements." . . .'

Yes — yes,' interrupted the girl impatiently.
She had been following the description
as if it were familiar to her. ' And his
face ?'

" Face, intelligent and much sunburnt ;
eyes gray, of some penetration, though usually
wearing a smile. Light moustache,

somewhat fairer than the hair which is
brown. Profile good, and expressive of determination."
'

Meyer stopped. He had been reciting
in the monotone of a schoolboy who knows
his lesson well, but he had been watching
his companion's face steadily, and now he
saw her change colony The faint pink
flush left her cheeks, while the shadow beneath
her eyes deepened. The brilliant redness
of her lips was startling in comparison
with her pallid face.

Marie — Marie !' he exclaimed, taking her
cold hands within his. ' You are killing
yourself with all this excitement ! For God's
sake listen to reason ! This man . . .'

Marie Bakovitch rose suddenly and walked
to the window, which was open, though the
thick curtain was drawn across it. She
jerked it back, and looked through the
branches of a geranium slant, out into the
deserted street.

I travelled from London with him,' she
said presently.

In the same compartment ?' inquired
Meyer anxiously ; he had risen and was
standing beside her, looking down upon her
fair head.

No, in the same train.'

Thank the Holy Virgin you did not
know him !' exclaimed he fervently.

I did know him,' the girl replied softly ;

I knew him by his resemblance to — to his
brother.'

Marie !' exclaimed Meyer suddenly,

Marie ! You ^nust wait. As long as he
is here, he can be doing no harm. The
moment he stirs from here, instead of placing
difficulties in your way, I will help you.'

So you have placed difficulties in my
way ?' she said wonderingly, as she looked
up into his sensitive, feeble face ; but he did
not meet her gaze.

^ You will never understand my love for

you,' he said by way of reply, and his voice
was wonderfully soft and patient.

As she looked at him, her blue eyes slowly
filled with tears, and it was a proof of her
ignorance of love that she did not hide
them from her lover.

^ Good-night, brother,' she said gently,
holding out her hand.

Good-night, Marie.' He took her fingers,
and was about to raise them to his lips, when
his eves met hers. Something he saw there
made him drop her hand, and cross the room
to open the door for her to pass out.

^"^^HERE is always something pathetic
in a friendship between men of
widely different aofes. However
great a tact the younger may display, he
cannot always conceal the fact that there are
resources of vitality and reserves of energy
within him that the elder man has lost. He
may slacken his pace upon the curve of a
hill with infinite cunning, but it is probable
that the elder man weill detect the movement ;
perhaps saying nothing about it, but that
makes it only sadder, for silence can express
greater pathos than any spoken language.
Mrs. Wriofhtwas not a sentimental woman ;

her heart was filled with that infectious joyousness
which is as sunshine on a gray and
barren land ; but when she saw her husband
and Winyard Mistley together, an unaccustomed
obstruction rose in her throat, and
always a busy woman, she became busier
than ever. This sight made her think more
than was desirable of a little mound far away
in an Indian churchyard, whereon the turf
had thickened with the growth of twenty
years. It took her back over that dim road
which narrowed and finally vanished in the
blessed perspective of time, and in her heart
this brave lady wondered at her own cheerfulness.


One morning, soon after their arrival at
Broomhaugh, this sudden glimpse of the past
came to Mrs. Wright with unusual force.
The Colonel was anxious to begin fishing
without delay, and there was consequently a
great display of fly-books and rods on the
table near the window. Over these the two

men were bending their heads, absorbed in
the disentano'lement of drv and curling o-ut.
Their brown hands occasionally touched as
they cleared the loops and freed the spiteful
hooks ; and Mrs. Wrio^ht, glancing' over the
morning paper, noted the slight trembling of
one pair of hands and the deft steadiness of
the slighter fingers. She saw the close
brown curls almost touching the older head
of o^^av verofino' on to white, and thought
again of the infinite possibilities buried in
that little churchyard far away, within sound
of the roaring Indian surf

I must get accustomed to seeing them
together,' thought the unsentimental woman,
turning resolutely to the Parliamentary news.

Upon a chair near at hand was seated
Adonis, a lamentably plain Irish terrier.
Grave and expectant, he was watching with
intelligent interest every movement, every
preparation, doubtless thinking the while of
the pleasant day he was going to have among

green hedges and soft grass, with here and
there a succulent blade, over which to perform
strange labial contortions, to the detriment
of his personal appearance, but infinite
benefit of his inner dog. In connection also
with the last-named matter, he glanced
occasionally towards Lena, who was helping
Mrs. Wright to prepare sandwiches for the
fishermen ; and when he looked that way he
slightly lowered his ears and smiled a little,
for Adonis was woefully impressionable, and
loved a pretty maid.

At last the lines were ready and the casts
made up with cunning combination of parti-coloured
flies, tempting and gay, but not
fulsome. At hand were also two gray flannel
bags, with close neat seams of Lena's work,
containing in cool moss a crawling, restless
Gordian-knot of red worms, in case the fishy
appetite should be too coarse for daintier
fare.

Then I^ena approached with a bright smile.

and two dainty packets neatly tied with a
knot which would have brought a smile to
Charlie's face had he been there to see.
One she stifled into her father's jacket-pocket,
and held the other out to Mistley.
But he unaccountably became clumsy at that
moment, and all his fingers were employed
with his rod. Somehow the joints would
not re-enter the narrow baof constructed for
their reception. So the ingenuous youth
murmured, ' Thank you,' and glanced audaciously
at the socket of his rough fishing-jacket
which hung conveniently open. The
rod showed no signs of approaching submission,
so Lena was compelled to drop the
small parcel into the open pocket, which she
did with much exercise of care, in order to
avoid touching any part or portion of the
coat.

Then,' said Winyard with a great show
of innocence, ' we are to be home by three
o'clock, to ride over to Santo.'

Lena had walked towards the window, and
was now standing just inside. She turned
her head, after a Httle pause, and said indifferently
:

That was what you arranged, but of
course, if the fish are taking well, it would
be a shame to drag you away from them.'

Winyard bowed low, and opened the large
old-fashioned window for her to pass out onto
the terrace.

^ You are very considerate,' he said in a
low voice, as he followed her.

This terrace was a charming feature of
Broom haugh. It was formed by an old wall
built up sheer from the sloping bank of the
Broom water, and was paved by huge slabs of
rough stone, now worn smooth by the tread
of many feet. The house itself was low and
gray, being built of the same stone. Grim
and sturdy, it harmonized with the bare hills
around and above it. Signs there were still
of the old fortifications, notably the wall

forming the terrace, which had rendered
Broomhaugh practically impregnable from
the river-side in the olden times. Below it,
amidst the whispering leaves of silver birch
and mountain-ash, ran the little river — a
trout-stream such as one finds only within
the shadow of the Cheviotss — and on this fair
morning its gentle ripple scarcely reached
the ears of those upon the terrace, for rain
was sadly wanted. A downpour of two
hours would convert the clear brown water
into a yellow torrent rushing down to the sea,
as if ashamed of its own impurity. Then
would the air at Broomhaugh grow heavy
with a dull roar rising from the tree-clad
valley beneath, and old Lee, the gardener,
would peer down through the branches and
mutter : ' Eh, but she's a big water !' As
the waters gradually subsided, the old fellow
was wont to hobble away to his little cottage,
and there, with trembling clumsy fingers,
would adjust his rod, and laboriously disen-
VOL. I. li

tangle his cast, in readiness for Mrs. Wright's
suggestion that he should go down to the
burn and catch a basket of fish for breakfast.


As Lena and Winyard paced slowly backwards
and forwards on the terrace awaiting
the Colonel, the ripple of the stream awakened
within the young fellow's heart a fisherman's
longing for the sight of running water. Only
fishermen can understand this love of nature,
for only they know the delight of wandering
rod in hand up the bed of a stream with legs
encased in waders, and the heavy swing of
brogues at their ankles. Their sort, with
its quiet concentration, gives time for a passing
admiration of the solitary beauty around
them, and the murmur of the glancing water
is to their ears as the voice of one they
love.

Men born among these hills may go to
dwell in cities, they may change their mode
of life again and again, until the days of their

youth lie away back in the perspective of the
past ; but the sound of running water, and
the smell of it, will bring a message back to
them unaltered by the years that lie between,
and the old love of solitude, disturbed only
by the peaceful rill of water or the curlew's
weird cry, will rise within their weary breasts
again. The hand cramped with holding a
pen will long to grasp the quivering rod,
and the ears weary with city din will ache for
the sound of the whistling line.

Presently Lena stopped at the corner of
the terrace, and stood motionless, gazing
down the narrow valley where, like a silver
thread, the Broomwater ran its tortuous
course.

I have never understood before,' she said
slowly, ' what the love of one's native country
is. You see, I have never had a native
country. We have always been wanderers
upon the face of the earth. But when one
can call a place like this one's home, it is

11 — 2

very different — the most heartless person
could not help being a patriot.'

And yet,' said Winyard, ^ what wanderers
we are ! It has even come to my being
a professional wanderer, you see ; while
Charlie is a sailor, which means that he will
never be quite happy anywhere upon dry
land.'

But still it is something to think of in
your wanderings, that you have a home like
this to come back to ; that these hills will bethe
same — the house, the stream, this old
gray wall, everything. Adonis knows what
I mean — do you not, you solemn old thing V

Hereupon followed an embrace which
Adonis bore with good grace, but failed
somewhat to appreciate.

^ I understand what you mean as well as
Adonis,' observed Winyard, with grave
humility. ' Although, perhaps, I do not
look so solemn about it as he pretends to be.
I understand it, and I suppose I feel it all ;

but the spirit of the tramp is very strong in
the family, I am afraid. After all, it would
never do to sit here all one's life, as we are
sitting now upon this wall in the sunshine,
admiring the scenery ! If you were a man,
I know you would not do it.'

I wish I were,' she said softly.

Thank goodness you are not 1' he exclaimed
fervently, in a low tone.

And then they sat there and said never a
word, while Adonis watched them with his
left ear slightly raised.

Presently the Colonel appeared at the
open window, equipped for the fray, and
eager to begin it. Instantly Winyard became
the polite host, and, raising his hand
to point down the valley, he said to Lena :

Do you see that round hill with the steep
incline on the south side ? Follow that
incline down to where the slope of the next
hill cuts it, and just there you will see a
faint blue line across the gap.'

Yes, I see it ; and that blue line is . . /

The sea. That is called Mistley's Gap.
The sea is twenty-six miles from here ; and
you can never see that blue line after ten
o'clock in the morning. The people about
here think that at that time the sea subsides,
and falls below the level of the valley,
on the principle that there is more water in
the streams early in the morning than at
any other time. In reality, it is of course a
mere atmospheric peculiarity. There is a
tale told by the shepherds that in olden
times a band of Borderers hanged a Mistley
in that gap. He was a sailor, and, as he
was returning home after a long absence,
they caught him and hanged him upon a
rouofh sort of gibbet, in siofht of his home
and the sea.'

^ So that you know that at least one of
your ancestors was hanged,' said the Colonel,
with his hearty laugh.

Yes,' returned Mistley ; ' and history tells.

of others as well who came to grief in the
same way, owing to some slight error of
judgment regarding other people's sheep.
We are an eminently respectable family.
But if you are ready, we had better go.'

The two fishermen then arranged that
Winyard should walk two miles down-stream
before commencing to fish up, while the
Colonel appropriated the water immediately
below Broomhaugh. So they parted at the
gate, and Winyard went swinging along the
road at a pace that promised to make short
work of the two miles.

The bright promise of early morning had
received a cloudy check from the west, and
now a gray day, if not worse, seemed a safe
prognostication. In little more than half
an hour the younger angler was at work,
rejoicing in the familiar whiz of the flying
line.

There are occupations wherein a certain
mechanical portion of the brain is sufficient

to guide and inspire the hand, leaving the
remainder free for other work. The steering
of a ship is one of these ; hence sailors are a
thoughtful race of men, holding quaint and
original notions on the way and manner of
living through a human life. Give a sailor
the spokes of a wheel within the span of his
arms — allow to pass unnoticed an unsightly
bulge in one cheek — and during two hours,
his ' trick ' at the wheel, he weill think you
out as many solid thoughts as any philosopher
of inky inclinations. The swaying
compass, the pulse of the restless wheel, and
the shivering of the topmost sail that curves
its white breast to the horizon, are all well
within the grasp of his mechanical brain ;
that is, of the outer office, where the mere
clerks are capable of dealing with the case,
only knocking at the door of the sanctum
occasionally, and asking advice when mechanism
fails and authoritative decision is required.


It is a mistake to imagine that trout-wishing'
belongs to the above order of things.
The man who seeks to catch this dainty fish
mechanically will probably catch little beyond
the lower branches of a willow across the
water. Xoav this shows and fully establishes
the mental superiority of trout over the rest
of the finny tribe — their business must needs
be transacted in the inner office.

Winyard Mistley possessed the happy
power of giving his whole mind to whatever
work or pleasure he might for the moment
have in hand, and his entire attention was
therefore accorded this morning to the slaying
of harmless fish. When youth and a
certain activity of brain, combined with a
lifeless heart and a lively digestion, work in
unison, there are few deeds within human
reach that are not feasible, and none that
are not worth trvino\ With practised eve
and an untiring wrist the young fellow cast
his cunning flies on to the rippling surface

of every likely pool. The fish were inclined
to encourage duplicity and cold murder, for
they invariably answered the call made upon
them ; not only the young and foolish, but
large and burly fellows with misshapen
mouths and stout hearts for an uphill fight.

While his master was enofaofed in studies
piscatorial, Adonis was gravely employed in
botanical research. With one vigilant eye
devoted to the inward swing of the silvery
line (his fly-catching days being over), he did
not forget for one moment the pleasant chain
of slavery that hung around his neck, and
the spirit of sniffing inquiry was held in
check by a stern sense of duty which forbade
any straying away. Occasionally, also,
Adonis considered it only polite and respectful
to take an interest in and inspect the
vanquished foe as he lay panting on the turf,
if only in consideration of his master's feelings
as a sportsman.

At first the stream ran through a level

meadow, where the o-rass was rich and o-reen
compared with the scanty brown covering of
the hill. It was the widening of the valley,
and the hills stood far apart, as if dl'a^ving^
back to make their farewell bow to the
pleasant laughing water which did not despise
their aged company, and brightened fora
while with its smiles and glancing merriment
their grave and timewoiii melancholy.
As Winyard progressed up-stream, from
pool to pool, by rippling shallows and stony
runs, the vale narrowed in, and the great
bare slopes began to dictate to the yielding
water, and measure out its j^J^th. The voice
of the stream otcw louder as its existence
became more eventful, and the difficulties
thereof cater. There were bio rocks to be
circumvented, and to be laughed at when
passed and gleefully avoided. Soon there
were little leaps to be taken with smooth
curve and snowy froth, whereunto lay the
wise trout awaiting a chance worm torn from

the broken bank a little higher up. In and
about these variations of flow lay deep and
tranquil ]tools, where the water recovered its
bright purity after the disturbing influence
of eddy and fall. Here dwelt the larger
trout — fish of a certain standing in life, with
rights of way and habitation, originally acquired
by strength of tail or fin, and now
held by reputation and rights of long possession.


With gentle turn of wrist, and clever calculation
of strength, duly allowing for the cool
breeze hurrying down the valley, Winyard
searched each pool and corner for the feeding
fish ; and already the weight of his creel was
of some consideration upon his back, with
every now and then a thrill of life as some
brave trout gave his last convulsive kick.

Presently Adonis, who, having conceived
the idea that there might be water-rats
about, had turned his attention to the river's
edge, looked up and broke the silence.

Off !' he said — an internal interlacing
bark, the sound of which appeared to strike
the o'leaminof barricade of teeth, and travel
down again to the inward parts of his muscular
person.

I beg your pardon,' observed his master
absently, being at that moment absorbed in
the deft placing of his flies beneath an 
branch across the stream.

^ Off" !' repeated Adonis, showing all his
ribs with a sudden dra wing-in of breath.

^ Indeed !' said Winyard with kindle interest,
and following the direction of the
doo's eves, he saw the cause of his annoyance.


This was the form of a young artist, who,
seated upon a humble camp-stool, was transferring
to his tiny paper a very pretty glimpse
of the Broomwater.

As the fisherman passed, the artist slightly
raised his hat with foreign politeness, which
salutation was immediately returned, and

Mistley continued on his way. When he
had passed out of sight the artist promptly
rose from his seat, and packed his materials
away into a portfolio.

He does not remember me — assuredly !'
he murmured in Russian, as he turned and
walked rapidly down-stream towards Walso.
But in this Ivan Meyer was mistaken.

CHAPTER XI.

IN YARD reached Broomhaugli
before the Colonel, and as he
climbed the narrow stone steps
cut in the solid wall, he saw Lena on the
terrace. She was sitting reading in the
corner whence the view of Mistley's Gad was
obtainable.

^ Back already !' she said, looking up with
a smile.

Yes,' he said slowly. ' Back already.'
He seated himself on the low wall beside
her, and swinging his creel round, he opened
it for her inspection.

Mrs. Wright happened to be in her bedroom,
and from the window she could see
these two young folks. She had no desire
to watch their movements — no wish to spy
upon anyone — but she could not help noting
that the two young heads were very close
together over the open basket ; it almost
seemed as if Lena's soft dry hair were touching
Winyard's lips.

^ I wish,' whispered Mrs. Wright, as she
turned away from the window — ' I wish I
knew what to do. I wish Laurance Lowe
were here — he knows Lena better than anyone
; and Willy is enjoying his stay here so
much, that I do not like to trouble him with
my misgivings.'

In the meantime Winyard had closed the
creel, and having laid it down in a shady
corner, he returned and sat down beside
Lena again. The water was slowly dripping
from his waders, forming two little pools
upon the stone pavement. With his foot

Winyard gravely constructed a little canal
connecting these two pools, while Lena
watched him in silence. Presently, without
looking up, he said :

I must write to Charlie to-day about the
theatricals — what am I to says Miss Wright?'

His eyes were quite grave, but his lips
were twitching with suppressed laughter ashe
gravely awaited her reply.

You are to say, Mr. Mistley . . .'

^ Excuse me, you appear to find a little
difficulty in saying Mr. Mistley,' he interrupted.
' It is awkward, I know — people
have remarked upon it often. Mistley is
one of those names with which '' Mr." goes
badly. You will find '' Winyard " much
easier to say I think !'

You are to say,' continued Lena, carefully
omitting an}^ name whatever, ^ that Miss
Sandford will take the heroine's part, and
that I will have much pleasure in doing my
best as the sprightly widow.'

VOL. I. 12

And that I will commence at once to
study the part of the domestic servant who
comes in once and says : " The carriage is
at the door." '

No — we settled that you should take the
principal part.'

You did.'

Yes !' said Lena, with a decisive nod.

And I settled that you should be the
heroine observed Winyard meekly.

• But I cannot act it.'

^ Why V

Because there is too much pathos in it,
and I cannot do pathos ; it is not in my
nature, I am afraid.'

You forget,' said Mistley, ' that I have
heard you sing.'

Oh, that is a mere matter of tuition !'

Winyard slowly shook his head. ' You
never learnt to sing that song as you sang
it the evening I listened behind you in the
hall'

Lena shruo^o'ed her shoulders and laughed.
^ Tuition she said again.

Then,' said Winyard, turning towards her
suddenly, ' let me be your tutor. If you
would act that j^art, I know we could make
it a success. With Mabel Sandford I simply
could not do it ; she has no conception of the
character, and would spoil it. When you
see her, you will acknowledge that I am
right. She is very nice of course, but absolutely
without the least power or individuality.
If she had only remained in the
country she would have been all right ; but
two seasons in town with a scheming old
aunt have, according to all accounts, completely
spoilt her !'

Do you think that your arrangement will
suit Charlie ?' asked Lena.

I am certain of it. In fact, it is not my
arrangement, but his. He maintains that
he could not take a larger role and be stage-manager
as well ; and we must have him as

12 — 2

manager, because no one else can do it so
well.'

At last Lena consented, on condition that
it should not be mentioned until after she
had made Mabel Sandford's acquaintance ;
and with this Winyard was forced to be
content.

While they were still talking over this
matter, the Colonel arrived with a very
heavy basket of fish, and a separate tale
to tell of each individual captive of his
rod.

It was nearly three o'clock before they
were mounted and on the road to Sandoe ;
and as they rode along, the Colonel continued
to regale the two young people with
his experiences during the morning.

Presently, however, they left the road and
turned into a narrow lane, Lena leading, the
Colonel next, and Mistley last. Winyard
was quite convinced in his own mind that
there was ample room between the hedges

for two to ride abreast, but Lena kept in
the centre pathway, and the Colonel squarely
followed.

Such lanes are common enough about
Walso. A mere strip of grass between two
hedges, worn, like you and me, in proportion
to the traffic passing over them, and to the
friction of wind and weather. Some have
only one worn track, and that but shallow,
like the late wrinkle on a smooth face ; and
again, some have as many as three rugged
furrows, like the lines on a scantily thatched
head, which has remained stationary while
others passed over it.

The Sandoe road, however, was well-told(.
and of evident prosperity and luxuriance. At
the foot of either hedge the nettle and gentle
dock grew together in harmony ; while overhead
the wanton briar-roses, not content with
the place assigned to them, Spread long, pliant
arms, and carried the sweet beauty of their
bloom into other folks' quarters ; notably of

the blackthorn and pithy elder, both of which,
from jealousy no doubt, grew crookedly, with
twist and ugly knot. In and out and everywhere,
the stealthy woodbine crept upwards
with innocent trailing tendril, content to belittle
seen below, knowing well that overhead,
outstripping every other growth, its redeeming
flower was fairest of all, diffusing the
sweetest breath into the air.

Winyard's horse was young and unsteady,
consequently he had but little time to admire
the scenery ; also he appeared to prefer for
contemplative purposes, when his animal
allowed of such, a slim and graceful figure
slightly swaying to the movements of a sleek
little mare in front. At length the lane was
brought to a sudden termination, as is the
fate of all such lanes, by a high-road running
at right angles to it.

The Sandfords were simple people of a
North-country type, now, alas ! growing rare.
Already ' Old Sandford,' as he was universally

called, was beginning to find that
his daughter had imported all sorts of newfangled
ideas from her South-country boarding
school, that the old home was too simple
for her enlightened tastes, and that even his
own little personal habits jarred ujDon her
sensitive nerves.

His forefathers, he opined, had always
been content to live in Sandoe, though
Mabel complained that it was a common
farmhouse. They had always found the
prospect of hills and low-lying meadow sufficient
for their eyes, and the knowledge that
it was all Sandoe land was happiness enough
for their quiet hearts.

The house was, indeed, little else than an
enlarged copy of the solid farmsteads of the
neighbourhood ; but the Sandfords were not
farmers, and never had been, though why
folks should be ashamed of an honourable
occupation Old Sandford could not understand.
Born, bred, and now growing old

amidst the solemnity of his beloved hills,
where all goes slowly and surely except
the clouds overhead — and God's hand guides
them, so their speed need alarm no one — the
old fellow was himself a slow man, but very
sure. Above all he Alas a gentleman by
heart and by head as well, though he had
never been farther South than Worketh for
his education.

When the Broomhaugh party entered the
roomy, old-fashioned hall, which was used asa
sitting-room at Sandoe, they found Old
Sandford stamping his feet after a long ride.

Ah, Win, my boy !' he exclaimed. ' Thank
God we've got you back to the North country
again !'

Then followed the introductions, and the
old gentleman shook hands heartily with
Lena and her father, for he had no faith in
those new-fangled bows with which strangers
honour each other nowadays when they are
supposed to be strangers no longer.

Glad to meet you, sir !' he said to the
Colonel in his quick abrupt manner, with an
expressive jerk of the head, which seemed
to say : ' I may be an old country bumpkin,
but I know all about yo^i /'

Then he proposed an adjournment to the
summer-house, where they would no doubt
find Mabel. ' Reading novels, I expect !' he
added, with a glance towards Winyard.

Mabel Sandford was indeed there, and
moreover she laid aside a yellow-backed
book as she rose to meet them. Winyard
she greeted with an effusion which he, at
least, thought rather overdone. She was
diseased too well for the occasion, and her
brioiit black hair was arranged somewhat
more elaborately than was necessary. Nevertheless
she was decidedly pretty, with
large dark eyes of the type usually called
fine,' and a graceful figure full of lithe
strength.

Leaving' the two old gentlemen to amuse

each other, Winyard began the question of
the theatricals at once.

^ Charlie is stage-managers he said, ^ but
he asked me to get things on as far as possible
before he came, because we have no
time to waste — he goes to the Mediterranean
next month, and I may be called away at anytime.'


^ It is a shame,' exclaimed Mabel Sandford,
with an exaggerated pout of her full
red lips, ^ the way in which we poor females
are deserted by everyone ! I have not seen
Charlie for months ; and as for you, Win, I
am surprised to see you now !'

I expect,' replied Winyard, with rather
a short laugh, ^ that you will be heartily tired
of us both before these theatricals come. You
have read through the piece, of course.'

Oh — yes !' replied Miss Sandford. She
had just picked a little spray of monthly
roses, and was fixing it in her dress, glancing
occasionally at Mistley as she did so.

Well, we want you to undertake the
longest part !'

The heroine ?'

No, the young widow ; there is a great
deal to learn, mind,' replied Winyard innocently,
carefully avoiding Lena's eyes, and
meeting Mabel's with infinite audacity.

If you think I can do it, I am quite
willing.'

Oh — I am certain of it ! Miss Wright
will jDlay the heroine, Charlie the hero, and
I the villain. Walter says he will act the
old man's part, does he not V

^ Yes ; by-the-bye, he is somewhere in the
garden. I will go and call him.'

Mabel Sandford was a little disappointed,
but she had too much spirit to show it ; and
Winyard's great interest in her part, displayed
in the subsequent rehearsals, at length convinced
her that although she was not the
heroine of the piece, her part was by no means
unimportant. Her brother, who presently

appeared, was a simple good-natured fellow-two
years younger than herself. He openly
confessed to being in a ' mortal fright' about
appearing on the stage ; but expressed a
humble readiness to do his best.

Winyard Mistley was not in the habit of
allowing the grass to grow beneath his feet.
Without appearing to have or even desire his
own way, and by means of gentle suggestions,
he arranged all the preliminaries, and even
fixed the day for the first rehearsal before
leaving Sandoe that evening.

Heavy clouds had been stealing up over
the hills for some hours, and, as the gate
swung to behind the Colonel's horse, large
sullen drops began to fall into the dusty road.

The Colonel led the way down the green
lane, keeping up a steady trot despite the
roughness of the path. At last the rain
began in earnest, and he pulled up to suggest
that Lena should put on the jacket she had
strapped to her saddle.

You two light-weights can soon catch me
ip,' he said, riding off.

Lena stopped in the middle of the lane, and
proceeded to endeavour, unaided, to loosen
:he straps round her jacket ; but her gloves
sere wet, and the slippery leather refused to
submit. Then Mistley forced his horse into
:he ditch, and so reached her side.

I have no gloves on,' he said quietly,
IS he leant over and took possession of the
straps.

Thank you,' said she, looking rather an-doubly
after her retreating parent.

In a moment Winyard had unbuckled the
straps and shaken out the short thick jacket,
risen he took her bridle in his disengaged
tian, and so left her free. But fortune wa;^
against her ; the collar of the jacket got
burned in, and Mistley had to take both reins
in one hand while he leant back and assisted
lier. When he had done this, and Lena had
secured the last button, she held out her hand

for the reins ; but he retained them for a
moment longer.

Am I forgiven V he asked.

For what ?' Lena looked rather markedly
up at the sky, as if in gentle protest against
being detained in the rain.

For having my own way.'

Oh — I do not mind acting the part,' she
replied with a short laugh.

It is in little incidents — in the trivialities
of everyday life — that a man shows his knowledge
of human nature. Winyard now suddenly
abandoned the subject, and drew aside
to let Lena pass.

And now for a scamper home !' he exclaimed
cheerily, as the horses sprang forward
at a long canter.

^^7^^ HE following evening Charles Mistley
arrived. This event, unimportant
though it may appear,
had been awaited with some dread by Mrs.
Wright ; indeed, perhaps Mrs. Mistley herself
may have had some misgivings on the
matter, though she betrayed no signs of such.
The former lady, however, was by no means
happ\^ on the subject of her daughter. Of
course it was natural, she confessed to herself,
that the two young people should seek
each other's society in a household composed
of an older generation ; and this great friendship
(if such it was) might have been expected

under the circumstances. But an equally
close friendship had existed between Charlie
and Lena before Winyard appeared on the
scene ; and the remembrance of this was not
pleasant to the cheery little lady's soul. To
her, Lena was a puzzle, as, indeed, she was to
a great many people. No subject had hitherto
been quite sacred from the girl's raillery ; life
had, up to the present time, been a very
pleasant affair — mostly laughter, and with no
sorrows too serious to be laughed at later on.
But now this unwearying mother thought she
detected a graver look in Lena's eyes, and,
mother-like, she set to work to find out what
this shadow could portend. Mrs. Wright
loved to look on love, as all good women do ;
but she had lived long enough in the world
to know that where there is a victory there
must be a vanquished, and the old foreboding
came back to her that there was danger for
Lena in this visit to Broomhaugh.

In fact, this little lady was puzzling over

a question which has never been answered
yet. This was the possibility of a true
friendship existing between a maiden and a
youth. It is very easy to give an opinion
upon it in a general way, and many of us
consider ourselves perfectly qualified to do
so ; but during life we will have to alter that
opinion several times. This peculiarity, however,
is common to every generality, because
in speaking generally we invariably think
individually. We boldly apply generalities
to the entire human race, or to one-half of
it, without deigning to inquire from whence
the inspiration has been drawn ; and on investigation
it usually transpires that the
opinion applies to one individual only. Indeed,
it cannot well be otherwise, as there
are no two human lives alike, and, in consequence,
no two natures identical. This habit
of speaking collectively is usually a youthful
fault, which vanishes as experience wears out
the bristles of our mental broom. When we
VOL. T. 13

are young, and the bristles are all astir with
self-opinionated and mistaken zeal, we make
great broad sweeps around us, collecting —
like other new brooms — a little dust, and
leaving unsightly streaks behind us, which
only serve to show where the dust lies
thickest ; but when the bristles are worn
down a little we go to work more carefully,
not in broad sweeps, but in little sidelong
movements, clearing no great space, but
leaving no streaks behind us.

Mrs. Wright had, like most people, her
ideas upon this doubtful friendship, though
she was too wise to hazard a decided opinion
upon the matter. Like many of her sex,
she knew men better than women, and ha vino
attained a certain age, was capable of judging
them impartially. In fact, she saw the gingerbread
without that gilt which is so apt to
dazzle young-er eves. It is a lamentable fact
that there is remarkably little o-ilt or o4eam
of any true metal about young men, until

they have acquired it from contact with
finer wares. The result of Mrs. Wright's
observations — which may be worth recording
was, that the man is to blame in almost
every case of a spoilt friendship ; that most
girls are capable of forming a friendship with
a youthful member of the sterner sex, but
that the vanity of the latter invariably spoils
it, and renders its existence an impossibility.
He, in fact, in his superb self-appreciation,
cannot realize that a girl may show a liking .
for his society without being in love with
him, which, after all, he thinks is the most
natural things in the world.

Now Mrs. Wright had, in a few days,
formed a much more correct estimate of
Winyard Mistley's feelings than that astute
young gentleman suspected. She knew his
to be a heart wherein ambition had found its
place before love. It is so in some cases,
and when love arrives, he finds himself in the
position of a dog who comes home to discover

his kennel occupied by a determined
and resolute cat. Some dogs — such characters
as our friend Adonis — will make a rush
at the kennel, and probably, at the expense
of a few scratches, accompanied by much
vituperation, will turn the cat out. Others
will be more wary, and their tactics will perhaps
partake more of the orthodox method of
warfare : result — scratches galore, and the
intruder still in possession. Others, again,
will feign to be ignorant of the intrusion,
professing a great interest in various objects
of refuse that may be lying around, taking
care at the same time to turn an unobservant
back upon the kennel, and thus afford the
cat an opportunity of honourable escape.

Mrs. Wright shrewdly suspected that the
intruder, ambition, was in possession of Win-yard
Mistley's heart ; but, womanlike, she
promptly thought it possible that the sad
dog, love, might be prowling round in search
of his own rio^-hts ; and her instinct told her

that the plan of assault most to be feared
was the Adonis-like attack, sudden and
daring.

During the last two years, Lena's mother
had thought a good deal uj^on the subject of
young men in general, and Charles Mistley in
particular. The more she saw of that grave
young sailor, the stronger grew her liking
for him. She soon learnt that his gravity
by no means denoted a dulness of intellect,
and discovered each day some new proof of
his thoughtfulness for others and forgetfulness
of self — qualities which find greater
favour with elderly than with young ladies.
Gradually she had dropped into the habit of
encouraging the friendship which had sprung
up between him and Lena, reflecting that if
it grew into something stronger than friendship,
Charles Mistley was worthy of any
woman's love. There was, however, that
grim fact of his being a sailor, which was forever
forcing itself upon her notice, and would

not be permanently quelled by the reflection
that there are many appointments on shore
within reach of sailors who, like Charles
Mistley, have a moderate income and a
certain influence at headquarters.

The younger brother, Winyard, had never
entered into Mrs. Wright's thoughts in the
matter, and lo I here he was, barely a fortnight
at home, complicating things most
terribly by calmly establishing a friendship
remarkably like that which had caused so
much uneasiness already. Whatever the
result might be, this shrewd little woman of
the world knew that no good could come of
it ; she held the opinion that the influence
of a young woman over a young man can be
of no earthly good to him. Altogether,
Mrs. Wright had no desire to witness the
experiment between her daughter and either
of the Mistleys. It is a dangerous experiment
and a desperately unprofitable one, O
youthful inquirer — an experiment best left

alone, as the writer of these poor Ones can
testify, having burnt his fingers over it !

In the meantime, Winyard and Lena
seemed to be cheerfully progressing down
that flowery path which is so lovely at first
sight, so disappointing on nearer inspection,
and so exceedingly thorny as one penetrates
into its depths.

They drove into Walso together to meet
Charlie, and all three arrived in the highest
good-humour with themselves and everyone
else, as the first dinner-bell pealed through
the house.

Despite her cheerfulness, however, Lena
was a little thoughtful at intervals that evening,
and during the mystic arrangement of
her hair she was so absorbed that she not
only forgot to hum a ditty to herself, but
she displayed a most unusual awkwardness
in the insertion of sundry pins, more or less
calculated to keep her head in order, and
consequently the entire erection presented,

even more than was customary, an appearance
of approaching collapse.

A second attempt, however, was eminently
satisfactory, and she tripped downstairs, a
demure and fairy-form, long before the second
bell rang. With maidenly dignity she entered
the drawing-room, cool and serene, as if there
were no such thing as dressing in fifteen
minutes ; but it was only to find Winyard
standing at the open window, cooler and
more serene, as if there were no such thing
as reducing fifteen to ten. He did not
speak, but held back the soft curtain for her
to pass out into the garden.

^ Not on the grass he said with paternal
anxiety, as he followed her, ^ your shoes are
too thin !' And she obediently walked on
the gravel.

Will you be so kind as to wear that
dress in the third act V asked Winyard presently.


why?'

Because . . . oh, because it is the most
difficult scene, and I think I could do it
better if you wore that particular dress. Do
you understand V

Hardly . . .' replied Lena truthfully.
She was trying hard to find out whether he
was serious or not. ' But still, if there is
stimulation in it to do great things, I suppose
I must wear it ; but I do not think it
will be quite appropriate to the scene.'

^ Why not V

^ Well, that is just the most pathetic part
of the whole play, which is in itself by no
means cheerful ; and white with a yellow
sash is not exactly pathetic !'

Tell me,' said Winyard, with exaggerated
gravity, ' why white with a yellow sash is
not pathetic'

I do not know,' she replied with a laugh,
but that is my view of the case.'

But do you not think that a strong contrast
is always effective ? I have never yet

understood why people on the stage should
persist in dressing in sombre garb on account
of the sorrow that is coming, and of which
they are supposed to know nothing. The
most touching thing I ever saw on the stage
was at the Comedie Franchise years ago,
when I was at school at Fontainebleau. It
made such an impression on me, that I have
never forgotten it. The heroine was in a
ball-dress, and the hero in ordinary evening
clothes, with a decoration in his button-hole.
It sounds prosaic, but it was wonderfully
effective. The saddest things that have
happened on earth have been in the gayest
towns, within the very sound of music and
laughter.'

Then you think I ought to be gay until
the last minute !'

I think so, certainly. It is a principle
which one can safely go upon until the end
of the chapter, and never regret it. Talleyrand
originated that idea, I believe. I am

quite certain that half of our troubles are
only worthy to be met with laughter.'

Do you speak from experience {' asked
Lena, thinking of her father's description of
Winyard Mistley's dauntless spirits.

Xo, because I have had little or nothing
to experiment upon, having always been a
lucky individual ; but I cannot help admiring
people who can laugh when they do not
feel like it.'

What a prosaic way of putting it !'

Perhaps so — but you know what I mean,
nevertheless. Xow, if you were to wear that
dress, I am sure it would prove most effective.
There is something about a white cress — a
soft, simple sort of di^ess like yours — with a
yellow sash, which always makes me feel
most sentimental ; and I am certain that
such a result could not fail to be edifying to
every onlooker. If you were to add some
flowers it would be still better — say jasmine.
We will try the effect to-night.'

And he stopped to gather a few sweet-smiling
sprays, which somehow took so long
to arrange satisfactorily that the bell had to
be rung again for their special benefit before
they obeyed it.

We will consult the stasfe-manao^er about
it said Mistley, as they turned towards the
house.

No !' she said quickly. ' Please do not
do that r

T breakfast next morning, Colonel
Wright explained at some length
that as the stao^e-manao^er had
now arrived, he failed to see any obstacle in
the way of Winyard and himself indulging in
another morning's fishing. This proposal
Winyard agreed to with his usual readiness,
and immediately after the morning meal they
sallied forth together.

According to arrangement, Winyard went
down-stream again, while the Colonel fished
up. It was not really a good day for
sport. The sky was brilliant, with dazzling
white clouds scudding before a strong breeze.

Altogether, matters did not go well. Several
times Winyard stumbled as he made his way
up the bed of the stream, very nearly breaking
his rod on each occasion. Before he had
been at work half an hour, he caught his fly
twice in a tree, having to cross through deep
water to release it. In fact, he was fishing
atrociously. Xow, when a man who is an
adept with the rod fails to catch fish, and
occasionally hooks a tree, it is fairly safe to
surmise that he is not giving his mind to the
work before him. Such, indeed, it is to be
feared was the case with this cheerful young
fisherman.

The strong will of a strong man is a tough
antagonist for the best of us — that is to say,
for the best of women, who are superior tous
in matters wherein endurance counts
heavily. Under a happy and careless manner,
Winyard Mistley concealed a certain
dogged determination, and all this was now
centred on the profession which he had

adopted. Ambition, determination, and patriotism
fought together in the young man's
heart — a strong combination under a resolute
leader, for ambition has led men upwards
to the highest pinnacles of fame, despite
every obstacle. Pitted against these allies
was one small foe, his only arm a bow and.
arrow of the frailest workmanship. But he
knew no fear, for he had fought the miscreants
before, and vanquished them. In his
plucky little heart was the knowledge that
those three restless giants (one of whom he
loves as a brother) are but mortal, whereas
he is a god. He can lurk within the inmost
citadel unseen, unsuspected ; sometimes, even,
he is content to lie hidden until the battle is
over, and he laughingly appears with cynicism
curling on his rosy lips.

To Winyard Mistley, Ambition and his
allies whispered : ' Leave home and love,
cast aside comfort and ease, sacrifice all in
order to pierce through the ruck of mediocrity

— and pierce you must !' On the other
hand, a small voice urged : * I am worth more
than fame, more than glory and a country's
gratitude, for I outlive them all !'

No wonder this angler caught trees instead
of fish, when such inward voices were
striving for the mastery. But the strife was
destined to be settled by an event, and not
by thoughts. It is ever so in our lives — we
think great huge thoughts, and, like the
waves of the sea, they roll on and are no
more, while a tiny event may make a great
man greater, and a poor man greatest. We
often wonder, in profitless moments of self-study,
how we would act in a crisis ; imagining
the while that the crises of our lives are
ushered in with due regard to stage-effect,
whereas they are in and out again before we
realize it. It is only in looking back that we
find the true turning-point, as a man having
lost his way goes mentally back over the road
to discover where his mistake occurred.

While he fished, Winyard Mistley was
actually pondering over the advisability of
abandoning his new profession. What conclusion
he miofht have arrived at it were hard
to say had he been allowed to think the
matter out : but suddenly a new light shone
upon it. A light all lurid with the hate of
man, red with the gleam of aggressive treachery,
yet shining with the glory of a steadfast
purpose.

Amid the solitary grandeur of his native
hills, by the side of peaceful Broomwater, an
event was destined to take place on this fair
summer mornings which left its mark on Win-yard
Mistley 's life. It was here that the
long pursuit, so steadfastly carried out by
Marie Bakovitch, was to come to an end.
As will be learnt hereafter, he was fully aware
of the girl's purpose, and even knew her name
and description ; but had always treated the
matter lightly, as the passing freak of a highly
strung and io-ignorant ofirl. Xow he was about

VOL. I. 14

to learn his mistake ; he was about to face a
sudden and unexpected danger, alone and
unaided, as he had faced most things in his
short life. And the result of it all was to bethe
appearance of a new ally against the
little god who had laid his siege so skilfully.
Dogged British pride joined ambition, determination,
and patriotism, and drove their
small enemy shrinking back.

Winyard Mistley had made his uneventful
way up the stream for about a mile, and was
now approaching a spot where the water
broadened out, losing, after the manner of
earthly things, profundity in so doing. Here
were stepping-stones, and on each side a
natural unmade footpath.

Although he was fishing carelessly, Win-yard's
eyes were fixed upon the water ; and
he therefore failed to perceive the form of
a girl at the edge of the stream, upon the
opposite side, and a little higher up.

This young lady had apparently no intention

of making her way across the steppingstones,
being quite content to stay where she
was. Every now and then she glanced down-stream,
as if expecting some one ; and yet
when Mistley appeared, unconsciously and
placidly angling, she appeared surprised and
somewhat disturbed. At first she made a
movement as if to draw back ; and then, suddenly
stepping forward, she resolutely planted
herself at the water's edge, with pale agitated
face and quivering lips, while her small un-gloved
hand went to the pocket of her dress.
Adonis was some distance behind his master,
engaged in botanical discoveries, and
therefore oblivious to all around him. With
aggravating deliberation the fisherman came
slowly on. The water below the steppingstones
was of no use to him, so he raised his
rod to gather in the line and pass on. As he
did so he lifted his eyes, and found himself
face to face with the girl. Her attitude, the
paleness of her lovely face, and the wild 

— 2

excitement gleaming in her eyes were instantly
observed by Winyard ; and in a flash of
thought he connected her presence therewith
himself, and with the tall artist whose
face he remembered having seen at Victoria
Station on the morning of his arrival in
England.

There was no ignoring the girl's evident
excitement ; he could not pretend to treat
her as a villager, and pass on with a local
greeting. For a moment the ruddy colour
left his face ; but it was not due to cowardice,
for men grow pale in moments of excitement
who do not know what 'fear is. Then he
raised his cap, but never smiled or inclined
his head.

The girl ignored his salutation, standing
motionless and pale as a marble statue.

I am Marie Bakovitch,' she said simply,
the musical tone of her deep voice rising
above the brawl of water.

^ I know it,' he replied. Even in face of

her dale, set features, and under the gaze of
her cold blue eyes he could not check the
quiver of his lips. He was too chivalrous tolet
her see his smile, so he said : ' You have
caught me at last !'

Then, rod in hand, he steeped into the
running water, while Adonis stood upon the
bank with his left ear raised, watching these
proceedings uneasily. The brook sped past
Winyard's legs, rippling and laughing, while
with its voice mingled the sad murmur of the
pine-trees overhead, like the sound of the
surf on a deserted shore.

Slowly he made his way across, feeling
with his encumbered feet for each standing-place,
for he dared not remove his eyes from
the girl's pale and defiant face. Suddenly
she seemed to realize what he was doing,
and she raised one hand convulsively to her
throbbing temples. Then hastily she withdrew
the other hand from her pocket. Mistley
saw the gleam of polished metal flashing

in the sunlight, and a moment later he was
facing the muzzle of a pistol, while behind it
he still met those lifeless blue eyes fixed on
his face, with no light of hatred in them.

The sight of the little black orifice, with
its rim of blue steel, drove the smile away
from the young Englishman's lips ; but still
he slowly approached her with the dogged
coolness of his race — not blindly, but calculating
his chances as if he were gifted with a
dozen lives.

If,' she exclaimed, in her pretty 
English, ' you come one step nearer
to me, I kill you !'

No reply came from his lips. The stream
laughed on. Overhead the pine-trees sighed,
and far away in the blue ether a solitary
curlew gave forth his weird cry of warning.

Facing the mouth of the grim little pistol,
Winyard never hesitated. He was half-way
across the stream, and with the same sure-goodness
he continued his way.

Then suddenly the girl dropped her arm.

For God's sake, 6fo/> /' she hissed, stamping
her foot on the soft tm^f.

Still he came on towards her, with steadfast
gray eyes fixed on her face. Then she
slowly raised her arm again, and turned the
pistol towards hun. While facing it, he was
calculating his chances with a deliberation
that was surprising even to himself; and
there flitted through his mind the recollection
of his own failure to shoot a disabled
horse, because its eyes met his without
flinching".

o

The bed of the stream was now lisino' at
a gentle incline beneath his feet; a few more
steps, and he would be in shallower water ;
yet another few, and that small white hand
would be within his reach.

Suddenly a streak of white flame almost
banded him, and a ringing report well-nigh
burst his brain.

The little puff" of gray smoke rose slowly

on the breeze, and Marie Bakovitch saw
Mistley standing in the shallow water.

Pah !' he exclaimed, as he passed his
disengaged hand across his eyes.

The sulphureous smoke had half choked
him, and some grains of unburnt powder had
flown into his face, causing a momentary
sting ; otherwise, he was unhurt. The pistol
was of German manufacture, and threw high,
having been made (as might have been expected)
to sell, and not to shoot with.

He gave her no time to attempt a second
shot. In an instant he was on the bank,
having sent his rod quivering on to the turf
beside him.

He grasped her wrist, but not too fiercely,
for even then he remembered his manners,
and the wrist was very small and shapely.

She made no attempt to resist, and relinquished
her hold on the weapon as he
firmly took it. Suddenly he felt the life go
from her hand, and was just in time to catch

her as she fell, unconscious and helpless, forwards
into his arms. It took him a moment
to realize what had happened ; then he laid
her gently on the slope of the bank, and
turned to get some water, which element he
supposed to be necessary under the circumstances.


Across the stream Adonis, with all his
sportive instincts aroused by the sound of a
firearm, was hunting eagerly, with ears erect
and officious tail, for the slaughtered game.

^ Adonis,' said Winyard, with comic vexation,
' you're an idiot !'

A man is not seen to advantage when
administering aid to an unconscious woman.
He is apt to be clumsy and ridiculously awkward,
feeling all the while that this is no fit
occupation for him, that he is meddling with
a delicate machine of which the sensitive
workmanship and motive-springs are to him
a profound mystery. He is oppressed with
the notion that another woman would instantly

put matters right by the simple
means of unhooking something, or the performance
of some similar trivial office of
which he knows absolutely nothing, and
would rather not attempt in view of returning
consciousness. With a sufferer of his
own sex, it is a different matter ; and from
the time of the good Samaritan down to
these ambulance-days, a man ministering to
a man has always been an edifying and
wholesome picture.

However, it was Winyard Mistley's custom
to make the best of most things. There
was within him that true British conceit
which prides itself upon being equal to every
emergency, provided it be human, and the
cause more or less a righteous one. Therefore
he filled his cap with the cool water
that flowed from the Northern hills, and set
about to vanquish this unknown foe.

Now it happened that sunstroke was a
visitation with which he was more or less

familiar, having had experience of it on
several occasions ; moreover, he was a great
partaker in a certain insular love of cold
water applied outwardly, and it appeared to
him that he might do worse than treat this
fair patient as he had treated many (less
attractive) suffering from sunstroke.

Carefully holding his cap by the rim, he
suddenly tipped it over, and cast upon the
girl's lifeless face a cold shock of water,
which immediately trickled down her graceful
neck in a most uncomfortable manner.
But what man, under the circumstances,
could have been expected to think of that ?
This vigorous treatment met with its due
reward, for Marie Bakovitch promptly
opened her eyes, just in time to save herself
the infliction of a second capful.

Where am I V she inquired in French,
that being the tongue in which she prayed and
thought, having spoken it before any other.

Winyard was never averse to satisfying

harmless curiosity ; but to answer this
question was a matter of some length, so he
ignored it, and said in the same language :

Now you are all right again, is it not
so ? Come, let us sit on that great stone.
There you will get the breeze.'

He slid an arm under the light form of his
would-be murderess, and gently supported
her towards the rock indicated. She allowed
herself to be placed thereon in dazed silence,
and then slowly raised one hand to the bosom
of her dress.

I am afraid you are rather damp,' said
Winyard apologetically, but with a cheerfulness
of manner which seemed to indicate that
all had occurred for the best. Then, being
a gentleman and perhaps a little soft-hearted,
he turned away, busying himself with the
top of his flask. This gave the girl time to
re-arrange the soft masses of hair which had
become a little loosened, and to give one or
two little cunning touches to her apparel,

which a woman with only half her senses
will still do.

Here,' he said, holding forth the cup of
his flask, ' take a little drink of that.'

Obediently she took the metal cup and
drank. If only Ivan Meyer could have seen
how Winyard commanded and Marie obeyed,
he might have learned therefrom an invaluable
lesson, for the girl was of those who
need to be domineered over, and are happiest
in obedience. AYhat IvanMever the thoughts
failed to perceive in length and fulness
of years, Winyard Mistley the superficial
saw in exactly two minutes, and knew how
to profit from it. The cordial appeared to
revive her ; a reawakening of life dawned in
her eyes, and a faint pink, like the sunny
side of a peach, rose to her cheeks.

Did I faint ?' she asked, without looking
up ; indeed, her eyes were fixed on the cup
she still held, the contents of Which were
evidently not to her taste.

Yes ; but you are all right again now,'
was the cheerful and inspiriting reply.

Then she looked up, and appeared to recognise
him for the first time, for she started
back, exclaiming, ' Oh — oh-heh !' and covered
her face with her hands, as if in horror of a
recollection just rising in her brain.

Inward Misled watched her
in silence. He almost expected
some hysterical display, or perhaps
a vain onslaught upon himself. The colour
slowly left her face, and her level red lips
were pressed together painfully.

Now do not go and upset yourself !' he
said masterfully, as he picked up the cup she
had cast from her. ' Let us be businesslike
and quiet. Do you feel better now ?
Is there anything I can do for you V

She looked up at him in vague amazement.
Then pressing back her hair with both hands,
she said :

I cannot understand you Englishmen . . .
do you know who I am ?'

^ Oh yes, mademoiselle,' he replied ; ' I
know who you are !'

He stooped and picked up the revolver
which had so lately been pointed at him, and
Marie Bakovitch watched in silence while
he dexterously removed the five remaining
cartridges and threw them into the stream,
much to the astonishment of Adonis. Then
he politely handed her the firearm.

I have a favour to ask of you, mademoiselle,'
he said, ' and then, if you feel
restored, I will leave you.'

'■ Of me ?' The poor girl was piteously
pale, but showed no sign of womanly tearfulness
or emotion.

^ Yes,' he replied, stepping nearer. ^ Will
you tell me whether you were sent by your
Government or not ?'

I was not.'

And yet,' said Mistley, watching her face

closely, ' your Government knew of your
purpose. They placed every facility in your
reach ; they encouraged you as much as they
dared . . .'

She winced as he emphasized the last
words. She sat twining* and entertaining
her unloved fingers, but never spoke.

They,' he continued bitterly, 'found themselves
outwitted by simple straightforwardness,
which, because it was not their mode of
acting, was not expected by them. What
they failed to do by telling lies, breaking
treaties, and ignoring the commonest points
of honour, they attempted to accomplish by
foul means, calling in the aid of a woman . . .
of a lady, mademoiselle, whose hands should
never have been soiled by such dirty work.
I shall never cease to regret that this has
occurred, and I need hardly tell you that the
matter will rest between ourselves, with the
exception of Colonel Wright, who must be
informed (^f it, not as a personal matter, but

VOL. I. 15

as a question of policy. To yourself personally,
I bear not the slightest malice ; but
oblige me by telling the man who signed
your passport, who gave orders to the spy
Marlow to watch me and report to you, who,
in fact, did his best to make you a murderess
tell him that from henceforth I work no
longer from a sense of duty to my country,
but from feelings of the fiercest hatred towards
himself and his despicable agents.
Ah ! you need not look frightened. In
England we say what we mean, and are not
afraid of treacherous ears being ever on the
qui vive to report every compromising word
uttered in confidence.'

He was roused at last, and the gray eyes,
hitherto so calm and restful, flashed as only
gray eyes can.

The girl rose and faced him bravely ;
although of a singularly febrile and nervous
temperament, she felt at that moment no
bodily fear.

^ It is for my country that I strive, and
not for any man,' she said in a low, concentrated
tone which was wonderfully musical.
'/, too, am a patriot. /, too, love my home,
and count my life as nothing beside my
country's good. You have power, and you
are a man whose words are listened to ; but
for me it is a different matter. I am powerless,
and can never hope to raise myself to a
position of power. My life is of no value to
Russia ; but by losing it I could make it of
value, if, by that sacrifice, I could remove
from her path an enemy as implacable, as
influential as yourself

It is painful to have to record the fact
that Winyard Mistley shrugged his shoulders
at these words. Such patriotism as shows
itself in the forming of societies and making
of fiery speeches was particularly distasteful
to him. Indeed, it was by his extreme
reticence that he made his mark in the
diplomatic world. He had shrewdly 

— 2

petted that Marie Bakovitch was the victim
of unscrupulous men, who, possessing a certain
gift of hysteric oratory, urged on others
to deeds of violence, while religiously avoiding
all danger to their own persons. This
suspicion he now found confirmed by the
girl's speech.

Perceiving that Winyard Mistley had no
intention of being dragged into an argument,
and was indeed preparing to leave her, Marie
suddenly changed her manner.

^ I, too, have a favour to ask of you,' she
almost pleaded. ' I am in your power,
wholly and inevitably ; but as an English
gentleman I beg of you to keep . . . this
matter . a profound secret from Ivan
Meyer. I am strong again now . I
will go !'

With a grave inclination of the head she
passed him, stepping firmly on the dry turf
He watched her as she made her way along
the edge of the stream by the little path

that led to Walso. Adonis having gravely
undertaken a search on his own account for
the five cartridges thrown into the river,
now returned unsuccessful, and took his
stand by his master's side, with sturdy legs
set well apart for greater convenience of the
draining water. He also watched the maiden
depart, turning occasional glances towards
his master's face with a brisk and questioning'
movement, as if to ask what this was all
about.

Winyard was in the habit of taking life
cheerfully, seeking out the sunny side of
every cloud, but now he was exceptionally
grave. It was characteristic of his somewhat
reckless ancestors that he gave no thought
to the danger he had just passed through.

Poor girl !' he muttered ; ' she is desperately
in earnest, and consequently she is
miserable !'

Then he suddenly stooped to pick up his
rod.

Adonis,' he said ; ' Adonis — I wonder
who Ivan Meyer can be. He does not know
that she was waiting here for me to-day.
There is more in that than meets the eye !'

Adonis placed his head slightly on one
side, at the same time elevating one ear, a
habit he had when puzzled. He also had his
thoughts upon all this, but, alas ! he could
not speak them.

When Winyard reached Broomhaugh with
rather a jjoor basket of fish uj^on his back,
he was told that Colonel Wright had also returned
and was changing his fishing-clothes.
When he came downstairs a few minutes
later, he found his chief waiting for him at
the door of a little smoking-room which was
specially set apart for the gentlemen.

The old fellow looked grave, and, ignoring
Winyard's inquiry as to what sport he had
had, he motioned him to enter the room, and
followed closely. Then the Colonel closed
the door, and held out a telegram.

Winyard took the pink paper, and read
aloud :

Would suggest Mistley engaging a valet
whom I can recommend. Marie Bakovitch
is in England.'

The message bore only the initials ' M. Land
had been despatched from the Westminster
Branch Post Office. Winyard read
it over once for his own edification, and
turned towards his chief with a smile. The
Colonel was standing with his broad shoulders
against the mantelpiece, his eyes fixed on the
carpet. His hands were thrust deeply into
his jacket-pockets, and he moved restlessly
from one foot to the other.

As usual,' said Mistley, still smiling, ashe
took a seat on the edge of the table, and
carefully tore the telegram into small pieces.
As usual with news from headquarters — -
this comes just too late.'

How V asked the Colonel, looking up
rapidly.

I had the pleasure of meeting Miss Marie
Bakovitch this morning'

You — here V

Yes. She had a cock-shot at me with a
very nice little revolver at a distance of about
five yards, and missed me !'

Whew — w — w !' remarked the Colonel.
Words usually failed him at a critical juncture.
Mistley laughed as he dropped the remains
of the telegram into the waste-paper basket
his usual lauofh, which had little hilarity
in it, serving, nevertheless, very well as a
stop-gap.

^ She was in the train by which we came.
I remember seeing her at King's Cross. No
doubt she is staying at Walso. Privately, I
think she is a little vague in the upper regions ;
she did not appear to know exactly what she
was about, and — and it was — desperately
poor shooting !'

The Colonel tugged pensively at his gray
moustache, while his kindly eyes rested with

an expression of wonder on his companion's

face.

Now that I come to think of it,' he said
slowly, ' when I drove von' mother and Mrs.
Wright into Walso the other day I saw a
foreign-looking girl accompanied by a tall fail'
fellow, who looked like a Scandinavian. The
ladies were in a shop, and I was waiting outside.'


The foreign-looking' girl was Marie Bako-
witch,' said Winyard, partly to himself He
was slowly stroking Adonis with a soft
pressure of his slim brown hand on the
shaggy head. ' If," he continued, after a long
pause — ' if it had oily been a man, the whole
affair would have been intensely funny ; but
somehow, since I have seen the girl, the
humour of the thing has vanished.'

Lena and Charlie, passing the open window
at that moment, heard Winyard's remark.
There was no mistaking the neat enunciation,
no misconception of the meaning ; and as

they passed on, each wondered a little over
those words caught on the wing.

Presently the Colonel walked to the window,
still pondering over the event just related
to him. Then, without looking round,
he asked :

Will you have this valet V

No, thank you ! I do not believe in that
system, for one reason ; and I require no one
to protect me from a girl, for another 1'

Then the Colonel turned sharply round,
and faced his companion.

Who was the man I saw with her ?'

I was just wondering,' replied Winyard
adroitly.

After a short pause the Colonel spoke
again.

I think, Win, you are a little too rash —
too indifferent to life ; either the indifference
is counterfeit, or there is something radically
wrong.'

Let us say,' replied Winyard imperturbably,

smiling, ' that it is counterfeit — at all
events, there is nothing radically wrong. But
that has not much to do with the question.
If this girl is going to be a nuisance she must
be made to go ; and, above all, the ladies
must not g-et wind of the affair. There is
no reason why they should, I think.'

Suppose I go and see the girl — she must
be made to leave at once I'

I think,' replied Winyard, ' it would be
as well to give her one or two days' grace —
say till Tuesday. There is not the slightest
fear of her making herself obnoxious in the
meantime ; and if she is not away by then,
we can put on the screw. Somehow I think
she will not be heard of again ; her patriotism
has been satisfied by the mere smell of powder,
like a French journalist's honour. She was
desperately frightened, I think, and very
much relieved when she found she had made
a bad shot.'

Well, then,' said the Colonel, with some

determination, * you do not go out of my
sight till Tuesday !'

Mistley laughed — a boyish laugh, all glittering
with lightness of heart — and made a
movement towards the door, for he heard a
sweet clear voice trilling a very well-known
air about the house. But Colonel Wright
did not respond to the movement. He stood
at the window, still tugging at his gray moustache
— still contemplating the carpet.

I often wonder,' he said at length, with
a quick upward glance towards his young
companion — ' I often wonder why this girl
honores me, and directs all her mad hatred
against you. If the matter is, as she and her
precious companions state, merely a political
question, it appears to me that my name,
and not yours, should be on their list of
persons considered dangerous and likely to
be harmful to Russia.'

Winyard Mistley made no reply. He
stooped to caress Adonis, who was sleeping

on a low chair, and the expression of his face
was a masterpiece of innocence and utter
emptiness.

I think,' continued the Colonel, who felt
he was gaining ground, and therefore grew
bolder, while his kindly eyes acquired a new
keenness — ' I think . I will o^o and see . . .
Marie Bakovitch.'

^ No !' exclaimed Winyard incautiously ;
you must not do that !'

Then there followed rather an awkward
silence between these two men who knew
each other so well. The younger busied
himself with Adonis, while the Colonel
looked on with a strange misty look about
the eyes.

You must think me a great duffer, my
boy !' he said at length, a little grimly.

Winyard shook his head, but did not lookup.


I am afraid,' continued the old soldier,
that I must be one, or I should have suspected

it before. Now — when it might
have been . . . too late, I see it all. That
first letter from the Society of Patriots . . .

Lunatics, 'suggested Winyard, with rather
a lame little laugh.

No, let us call them Patriots, for some
of them, at least, are sincere. Their-first
letter threatened us both. You answered
it, and, contrary to your custom, you forgot
to keep a copy of what you wrote. Since
then there has been no question of me, but
only of you. Oh, what a fool I was not to
have thought of it before !'

As usual, Winyard laughed, but the
Colonel held to his point.

^ Win, my boy,' said the old fellow slowly,
^ during the last two years we have been
very good friends and that, under exceptionally
trying circumstances. We have
gone through a good deal together, and we
have shared everything ; I think it would
have been right and fair . in fact, you

must see for yourself that I have a claim to
share this additional cano-er with you as we
shared the others.'

Winyard was very much occupied with
the buckle of Adonis's collar, and did not
look up at once. Then he looked towards
the door, and said :

^ Listen !'

Adonis, who knew the meanings of the
word, instantly cocked his left ear and
obeyed. Slowly he wao^oj'ed his tail with
little awkward jerks from side to side, and
looked round into his master's face as if to
say : ' / know who that is !'

Without, in the low-roofed hall, Charles
Mistley was relating some incident to Lena
and her mother. It was evidently amusing
occasionally the somewhat monotonous
rhythm of his deep voice (the softest ina
drawing-room, and loudest in a gale) was
broken by a laugh ; clear and merry from
Lena, or soft and true from Mrs. Wrio^ht.

At last the tale came to an end, and the
two voices were mingled in one happy burst
of merriment.

No, Colonel !' said Winyard, shaking
his head very wisely. ^ I think you had no
right whatever !'

And, with a low laugh, he passed out into
the hall to join the laughers there.

CHAPTER XV.

^Tl fT^HE little parish church of Broom
/^ ,^^ was remarkably full on the 
^ day morning following these
events. This fact was observed by the
young vicar without surprise, and moreover
without prejudice.

The Reverend Charles Renforth was a
Christian who managed fairly well to hide
the muscularity of his ideas ; but in the recesses
of his charitable heart there lay a
mighty worship for all strong things. Under
such heading he classed Charles Mistley,
having contracted a great friendship with
the young sailor during the short intervals

VOL. I. 16

of holiday spent by the latter at Broom-haugh.
Of Winyard he had not seen so
much, but of his actual deeds knew more
Colonel Wright was a public man, and the
young parson read the newspapers assiduously
in his quiet little study, watching
events at home and abroad, and learning of
the deeds of Englishmen who serve their
country by wandering away from it. ' It
was never our Government that made us a
great nation. England was made by adventurers,
not by its Government ; and I believe
it will only hold its place by adventurers.'
These true words, written by the greatest
adventurer of the nineteenth century, apply
to such men as Colonel Wright and Winyard
Mistley, of whom there are many in our
very midst, unappropriated, admired, and
cast into the shade by a low type of hero-worship,
which takes for its idols wordy
politicians, mere ranters, wind-bags, and self-seeking
humbugs, unworthy of the name of

patriots. Such men, however, failed to

impress the athletic young parson of Broom.

His heart warmed towards a stronger type,

and the hardy old Colonel was his ideal

Englishman.

The Reverend Charles Renforth was

therefore by no means surprised when his

little church filled with unwonted faces and

unknown bonnets from Walso, and even

beyond that ancient burgh. Nor did he

take unto himself any undue credit by attributing

this enlarged attendance to a lauded
o

able desire to hear him discourse upon the
Scriptures.

He shrewdly suspected that these strangers
had come, not to worship by preference in
his church, but to see the well-known
Colonel Wright and his distinguished young-coadjutor;
yet he thought no worse of them
for that, and was honestly glad to see them
all, remembering that a seed sown by the
wind may well find a fruitful resting-place.

16—2

During the progress of the second lesson,
wherein there yere many short pauses, the
vicar discovered a face among the congregation
which, by reason of its familiarity,
called for further glances. It was that of a
young man — a pale, intellectual face with a
square jaw and closed lips, softened by a
pair of wondrous blue eyes, wherein lay the
shadow of anxiety or hopeless sorrow. The
gentle despair of those eyes disturbed the
reader, and awakened within his honest
breast that sympathetic yearning which the
coldest of us cannot but feel in the presence
of one whom we know, or imagine,
to be bearing the weight of a genuine
sorrow.

Ivan Meyer had not come to church from
mere curiosity, but with a set purpose.
Marie Bakovitch had been more incomprehensible
than ever during the last few days,
and her patient lover was slowly awakening
to the fact that her mind was no longer

reliable. Nevertheless he hoped on ; but
to continue hoping and watching in silence
and alone was a heavy task for one of his
impulsive nature. He suddenly determined
therefore to seek assistance, and this from
Winyard Mistley himself Something in
his artistic soul, some strange love of a crude
contrast, prompted him to do this ; and so
convinced was he of the wisdom of his
appeal, that he had come to Broom Church
with a little note in his pocket to be passed
into Winyard's hand.

By chance the Colonel and his secretary
were sitting next to each other, forming, as
they invariably did, a striking contrast. The
old soldier sat motionless, with his powerful
gray head reclining against the panel of the
black oak pew — a calm and thoughtful face,
with eyes a little inclined to be dreamy at
times, and vacant in their gaze ; while Win-yard,
with his quick glance and erect head,
was the very incarnation of energy and

resource. Here was no dreaming, no
absence of mind, but a cheerful readiness to
face every emergency, and a merry suggestion
for every difficulty.

As the preacher preached, and looked
over the heads of his listeners, his eyes frequently
rested on the two men ; and every
time they did so, he felt humbled. He
could not help comparing and weighing in
the balance of his mind the relative merits
of words and deeds. His words, and the
deeds of these two men. His own work, he
was convinced, was the noblest that is placed
in the hands of man ; but at times it appeared
to him essentially a work of words,
and a young man at some period or other of
his existence is sure to conceive a sudden
hatred for the vanity of words. The necessity
for action comes to us all at some
moments, and this usually happens between
the ages of twenty-five and thirty-five —
after the growing and before the vegetating

period ; when the human plant has
attained its full height, but has yet to
form its own wood from a green and pliant
stalk, which, if slightly bent, will grow in
crookedness, hardening as its growth gains
force.

As the congregation trooped down the
narrow aisle, Winyard caught sight, for the
third time in his life, of Ivan Meyer ; and
in his eyes he saw the gleam of recognition
which is so difficult to conceal, and with it
he thought he detected a peculiar pleading
expression which he failed, at the time, to
understand. Without turning round to look,
he felt that the tall foreigner was immediately
behind him as he passed out of
the low door, and it was characteristic of his
readiness of mind that he showed no surprise
when a note was thrust rather clumsily
into his hand. He must have slipped it
into his pocket with wonderful celerity,
because he was shaking hands the next

instant with Miss Mabel Sandford, who appeared
to be completely satisfied with the
effect of her new summer costume.

Her interest in the theatricals was rather
too ostentatious ; and Mrs. Wright, with a
woman's quick insight, saw, as she came out
of the porch, that she was displaying her
intimacy with the young diplomate for the
sole benefit of her lady friends.

Mrs. Mistley had for some days been
trying to secure a tête-à-tête with her son,
and with little difficulty she now succeeded
in arranging that they left the churchyard
together. For some moments the mother
and son walked side by side in silence, then
Winyard glanced over his shoulder, and
said :

The Colonel has been caught by Old
Sandford, which means that he will not get
away for at least a quarter of an hour.'

Mrs. Mistley smiled vaguely, but made
no reply for some moments.

He told me yesterday,' she said at length,
that if any further mission were offered to
him, he would refuse. He says the work is
too hard for a man of his age !'

^ Yes . I know. He has often said
the same to me. . . . Perhaps it is better
that he should give it up, though of course
that is a mere excuse. He is as strong as
ever, and as capable, but he has had a long-life
of wandering, and it has been weary work
for Mrs. Wrio^ht . . . and Lena. He feels
that, I know — he feels that Mrs. Wright's
life has not been an easy one, though she is
so brave and cheery. She seems to have no
relations, no sisters I mean, or brothers — or
even old friends.'

Only Laurance Lowe !' said Mrs. Mistley,
in a low voice full of gentle sympathy.

I do not understand Laurance Lowe,'
said Winyard thoughtfully.

Xo . I think . . . very few people

do :'

They were now walking by the Broom-water,
and the ripple of the stream as it
danced and tumbled along filled in the intervals
of the conversation, and led to long,
thoughtful pauses.

'Tell me, Win,' said Mrs. Mistley at
length, with a hesitating glance towards
him. ' What do you think of doing in the
future V

I ?' he began vaguely. * Oh, I told them
at headquarters that I was ready to go anywhere
at any moment !'

You have no thought of settling down
yet V gently and suggestively.

Settling down ?'

Yes ; marrying and going into Parliament,
and behaving generally as a well-off
and somewhat ambitious young Englishman
ought to do, according to precedent !'

I have no respect for precedent, mother 1'

Nor I. But why not give up wandering.
Win, and go into Parliament V she asked

softly. * A man who has mastered a specialty,
as you have this Russian question, is
certain to get on there.'

^ But I have not mastered it yet.'

Wei — you and the Colonel are the acknowledged
authorities upon the matter. I
do not see what more you can require.
Whether you have mastered it or not, you
know more than any other man.'

Yes, but it is like exploring a new
country — there is no end to it. One must
keep up to the times and be ever in the
front, or it is useless competing. Once the
ground has been travelled over by another
man, the interest is lost. While I am here,
the Russians are not by any means idle ; and
if I started for Central Asia tomorrow, I
should find that things had moved onwards
since I was there before — onwards for them,
backwards for us !'

^ Then you have not altered your plans.
You intend to continue being a wanderer on

the face of the earth, a man whom the Cabinet
keejD m sight, as being reckless enough
and clever enough to send on any wild-goose
chase the may have in hand !'

^ Do they keep me in sight on that account,
mother ?'

I was told so by a Minister.'

I am glad to hear it. A man may get
very good sport after wild-geese, and who
knows what may come of his knowledge of
the country at some future day ! I tell you,
mother, this is an age of specialities — universality
is at an end. My speciality is this
Central Asian question. At any time, at
any moment, we may find ourselves upon the
brink of the biggest fight the modern world
has seen ; then my time will come. Then
the first words of the AVar Office will be :
Send for Colonel Wright and Winyard
Mistley " — the one to plan, the other to execute.
When that time comes, mother . . .
nous verrons /'

In the meantime, it seems to me that
your entire Hfe is being sacrificed to be in
readiness for an event which may never
occm\'

Ah ! Of course it may not come in my
time, but that is a chance I must be content
to run.'

^ There is a view of the question which
you appear to have overlooked. Win,' said
Mrs. Mistley, with quiet firmness.

Yes V

^ Suppose you wished to marry !' As the
little lady uttered these words she suddenly
raised her head, and looked keenly into her
son's face.

Beneath his moustache, Winyard slowly
drew in his lips as if to moisten them, though
the air was cool enough.

As the tree stands, so must it fall !' he
said with a sudden laugh.

Which being translated means ?'

That no man who feels the restless spirit

of the wanderer within him has a right to
ask a girl to marry him.'

He looked down at her, and smiled calmly.

^ But the girl may be stronger than the
spirit.'

Temporarily V

No, permanently.'

I doubt it,' said Winyard. ' Look at a
case we have before us now. Colonel Wright
has never settled down.'

^ Perhaps, Win, his wife has never asked
him to. Perhaps she has thought of his
career in life before her own happiness.
Women have been known to do that before
now.'

The practical young man looked doubtful.

And do you consider that her life has
been a success V he asked.

Most certainly I do. And you men maybe
thankful that women have the power of
loving for love's sake ; that absence makes
but little difference with them. Especially

you, of the great army of wandering Englishmen,
who turn up in all parts of the world
with your brown faces and ready hands.
You are all the same ; the only soft part of
your hearts is reserved for the love of Nature ;
and unfortunately women love wanderers,
and soldiers and sailors, more than other
men.'

^ Mother,' said Winyard, with a cheery
laugh, ' you are getting sentimental, and that
will never do. If you infect me, I shall die
off in a week. And as for talking in that
insinuating manner about settling down,
how about a certain elderly lady who is
always flying about the world — Scotland,
London, Paris, Rome, and even St. Petersburg
— nursing the stricken, and consoling
such as are love-sick or martyrs to indigestion
?'

When you marry I will settle down in a
cottage near at hand, take to needlework,
and worry your wife. There is Lena comines

alone ; run away and meet her while I go
in and take off my bonnet.'

They were now upon the stone terrace,
and Mrs. Mistley pointed down the valley
as she walked towards the house.

I expect said Winyard partly to himself,
that Charlie has been caught by the Sandfordss.'


At the head of the narrow steps which he
had just ascended, he drew the note handed
to him in church from his pocket. It was
in French, one line in a fine clear handwriting
:

Meet a friend to-night at the bottom of
the small stej^s. — /. M.'

I. M. !' mused Winyard — ' Ivan Meyer ;
and he calls himself a friend. I am gradually
getting into a fog with all these muddling
conspirators.'

Then he thrust the note back into his
pocket, and ran lightly down the steps to
meet Lena.

You are polite !' was her greeting.

I am,' he replied, bowing low. ' I am
nothing if not polite.'

Then you are nothing,' she answered
saucily.

Thank you. I was afraid you did not
think much of me.'

You have allowed me,' she continued
severely, ' to walk home from church alone,
and to carry this unassisted.'

She held out for his inspection a tiny
Prayer-book, of which the weight might
safely be set down as three ounces.

Good gracious !' exclaimed Winyard, ' you
do not mean to say that you carried that all
the way !' And he gravely took the burden
from her hands.

I thought Charlie was with you,' he continued
apologetically.

No, Mr. Mistley, I was alone.'

It shall not occur again, Miss Wright.'

It is not polite to mimic people, Mr.

VOL. I. 17

Mistley,' said Lena, looking straight in front
of her. They were at the foot of the stone
stairs cut in the wall, which were just broad
enough for two persons to pass. Then her
humour suddenly changed.

How very foolish we are !' she exclaimed,
laughing. Just as she spoke, she slipped
backwards, and her laugh turned into a little
cry of fright.

Winyard, who was a step behind her,
appeared almost to have foreseen the mishap,
for his arm was round her before it was
possible to know whether she would have
fallen or not. It was doubtless owing to the
narrowness of the steps that he found it
necessary to throw his arm right round her,
instead of contenting himself by supporting
her with his hand.

Perhaps we are,' he observed gravely, as
she recovered herself quickly and passed on.

Perhaps we are what V she asked, keeping
her face studiously turned from him, and

plucking little tufts of lichen from the wall
as she passed.

Foolish !'

I am, at any rate,' said Lena, with a little
lauofh. ' I never do remember that silly
step). The way it tilts forward when one
stands on it is most alarming. Now I am
sure you had forgotten it.'

Excuse me, I remembered it.'

^ And you did not warn me. Perhaps
you wished me to tumble down to the bottom,
and come to an untimely end in the depths
of the Broomwater.'

Winyard did not answer at once ; he
appeared to be pondering over the words
before he spoke them.

Perhaps,' he said in a voice so low that
Lena could scarcely hear it — ' perhaps I
wished to have the pleasure of saving you
from all that.'

Then the ingenuous youth changed the
conversation skilfully, knowing that maidens

17—2

are delicate in their susceptibilities, and love
little a joke that is pressed too far. That
loose step, with its alarming weakness, was
never again overlooked by Lena ; and by
some strange sinuosity of her maiden mind,
abetted by her imaginative heart (an unfathomable
shallow, all criss-cross currents),
she came to loving it beyond its forty-seven
mossy fellows.

Even gray, dead stones can be endowed
with individuality by the associations of a
past that never comes again. The power
and memory of them lie round us as we pass
on through life, like landmarks left behind
the westward-travelling wanderer, who, facing
the glorious uncertainty of sunset gold, turns
back and looks on that which he will never
see with quite the self-same eyes again. We
think that our ancestral halls are dear to us
by the power of their own individuality, but
it is not really so. It is the magic touch of
human sympathy, human love, and human

interdependence that awakens the quick thrill
of memory. All earthly things — and more
particularly all human things — live by past
association in the human heart. To this there
is but one exception — the sea, which, like a
wayward mistress, demands a life's devotion,
to be repaid by fickleness and cruelty. She
scorns all outward aid of human origin ; but
with simple blend of cloud, sunshine, and blue
water, offers a variety of aspect unequalled
by wood and mountain.

HE moon had bravely taken uj)
her nightly task of sweeping clear
the heavens. But there were
some huge clouds that promised to strain her
cleansing powers to the utmost. The good
folks walking home from church had clasped
tight their woollen wraps as they spoke of
coming rain ; but that was three good hours
earlier in the night, before the moon had risen
and set to work with all the ardour of a new
broom. Here and there in the clouded vault
little puffs of silvery white betrayed weak
spots in the canopy of vapour ; and through
these the white scavenger was boring assiduously,

leaving no breach unattempted.
In some places she had even broken through,
and the stars twinkled faintly down towards
the labouring earth.

The cool night wind came smoothly over
the bare hills, moaning through the stately
fir-trees, while the smaller and more demonstrative
undergrowth of beech and thorn
rustled with the crispness of approaching
autumn already in their leaves.

Far up, on the hillside, some fond ewe,
whose maternal heart was not reconciled to
the inevitable, bleated dismally ; and after
waiting vainly for an answering cry, bleated
again, and wandered on over the brow of the
hill. The inevitable in her case was the
progress of little woolly legs from awkwardness
to sprightly gambollings, and thence by
natural sequence to the dread companionship
of mint sauce.

Winyard Mistley sat on the stone sill of
his bedroom window, ten feet from the ground,

with his legs dangling in the darkness, and
listened absently to the distant lamentation.
It may be that he was picturing to himself
the lonely mother's clumsy anxiety as she
stumbled on, totally disregarding the inequalities
in her own path, and gave forth
that unheeded wail to the grim hills and
laughing stars.

The ears of a man who has seen the darker
side of human nature become very keen, with
that blessed adaptability which characterizes
all our senses ; and Winyard was waiting for
the sound of a footfall or the crackle of a
branch on the little path far down below the
wall, knowing that in the stillness of night
he could not fail to hear it.

The monotonous cry of the sheep was not
the only sound of woe in the air, for in the
darkened room behind the solitary watcher
the silence was every now and then broken
by a little muffled whine. Adonis was allowed
to sleep in his master's room, and he was now

lamenting' o^entlv and continuously that it had
been considered expedient to attach him to
the bed-post on this occasion. Apart from
the indignity of being held prisoner by such
an extremely domestic device, he felt deeply
that he had not been trusted to obey orders.
But Winyard knew the dog's simple character
too well. He knew well enough that while
the command was still fresh in his mind,
Adonis could be implicitly trusted to obey ;
but the most ardent watcher is open to a
sudden attack of sleepiness, and the shortest
nap inevitably divines an unsympathetic order
from the canine memory. This result Win-yard
wished to avoid, as Adonis would undoubtedly
laye undertaken a vigorous search
for his master despite such a trifling obstacle
as a ten-foot drop to the ground.

The scene was so lovely, the thousand
night-odours so sweet, that the time slipped
rapidly away, while the watcher almost forgot
to note its passage. He had been sitting

there nearly half an hour, when at length he
heard the rustle as if of some one moving
through the underwood upon the slope down
towards the stream. With a last whisper of
admonition to Adonis, he placed his two
hands on the window-sill and threw himself
far out into the darkness. He lighted softly
on the mossy turf, and crossed the lawn.

His eyes were now accustomed to the
darkness, and he could recognise the form of
each stately tree, drawn in sharp black filigree
against the gray sky. In the shadow
of the wall at the foot of the long flight of
steps, he soon discovered a tall figure leaning
against a tree, with the leisurely patience of
one who knows that his waiting is not
vain.

For a moment it struck Winyard that if
this man had evil intentions, nothing would
be easier than to shoot him as he descended
the steps with the moonlight shining full
upon his face ; but the thought was only

fleeting', and untino^ed with anv likelihood of
tui-king to a fear.

As the young Englishman approached,
Ivan Meyer steeped forward, and, with an
artist's ever-present love of harmless effect,
raised his hat as he said :

^ MonsietLT Mistley V

Winyard was one of those unfortunate
people whose sense of honour is irrepressible
unfortunate, because it invariably strikes
at the wrong moment, and because the possession
of it makes one see deeper pathos in
everyday life than those whose smile is
slower. The incongruity of the whole affair
suddenly forced itself into Winy ard's thoughts,
and he was thanked that his face was in the
shade as he raised his hat slowly and coldly,
with a truer knowledge of dramatic effect
than Ivan Meyer possessed.

I am Winyard Mistley,' he explained.
It is, perhaps, my elder brother with whom
monsieur wishes to converse.'

It may have been that Meyer thought he
detected a slight shade of irony in the 
of this reply, for he instantly dropped
the ceremonious mode of address in the third
person.

No, monsieur, it is yourself whom I seek,'
he said, with a nervous hesitation which did
not fail to raise him considerably in his companion's
estimation. ^ You will pardon my
indiscretion, but I was hard pressed before I
sought assistance — you can believe that ?'

With characteristic foresight the young
Englishman began to wonder how much
money he had about his person, as he bowed
in acquiescence.

Instantly Ivan Meyer saw that his words
had been misconstrued, and hastened to explain.


^ I am here,' he said, in a tone showing more
self-assertion, ' to ask a strange favour !'

^ I will endeavour to assist you — Monsieur
. . . ?'

Meyer — Ivan Meyer. I am a Russian
by nationality ; a Swede by rights, for I ama
native of the Baltic Provinces.'

Again Winyard bowed, and waited with
the same unsympathetic silence for further
information.

You know the name of Marie Bakovitch,
monsieur V

I do.'

She is at present in Walso, near to
here.'

Do you come to me on the j^art of mademoiselle
?' asked the Englishman somewhat
coldly.

No ; I come on my own account.'

Indeed !' Winyard moved restlessly from
one foot to the other, and by casting glances
up at the clouds, down towards his own boots,
and indiscriminately around, indicated gently
that he was not desirous of prolonging an
interview with this mysterious youth.

Suddenly Ivan Meyer took courage, and

stepping closer to his companion, he said
passionately :

I come to you because you have ruined
my life. I am the lover of Marie Bakovitch.
Her love for me, or the prospect of winning
it, was the one bright spot in my existence,
which has been as dark as that of every
young Russian. For her I worked night
and day, in the hopes of one day becoming a
great artist ; for her sake I would willingly
have thrown my life away But for her
sweet influence I would have become a
Terrorist, fighting a glorious battle by means
so foul that God can only frown upon the
righteous side and uphold the tyrant. For
her sake I forgave my father's exile, my
mother's death, my own miserable childhood ;
and, just at the moment when happiness
seemed within my reach — when I felt sure
of winning Marie's love, you rose upon the
bright horizon of my joy — and now . . . now
you are driving her mad. I should have

hated you ; at one time I thought I did, but
now I know that it is not you but your
power that I hate. I have known of Marie's
project for a year, and have ever since striven
to make her give it up. It is not for your
sake that I have done this, but for hers —
nevertheless, I have some claim upon you.
Surely I am justified in calling upon you
now, in the name of the Blessed Virgin, to
obey me — to come, now, with me to Marie
Bakovitch !'

But,' said Winyard with true British
calmness, which appeared almost cruel in its
striking contrast to Meyer's excitement —
but what good can I do ?'

^ I do not know — we are in the hands of
Providence ; but she is for ever asking for
you !' replied the Russian defiantly.

For me f

Yes ; in her moments of calmness the
name of Mistley is ever on her lips, and
when she becomes excited she attempts to

come out to seek you. I have locked her
in our little sitting-room, promising to come
and find you. Sometimes I think she is
mad, monsieur, and at other moments I
think I am so myself. Will you come ? I
have provided for everything. Marie is
calmer to-night, but she never sleeps now.
Mrs. Armstrong, our landlady, has her room
in an outbuilding — all Walso is asleep ; it is
safe !'

Still Winyard hesitated ; Ivan Meyer
evidently did not know of the meeting by
the stream, he reflected ; and the sight of
the man she had attempted to murder might
have a terrible effect upon the girl.

Is it . . . possible . . . that you think this
a trap) V asked Meyer slowly.

That decided the young Englishman.

I will go with you,' he said simply.
^ The thought you suggest never entered my
head.'

Thank you, monsieur. The way is not

long if we go by the fields. The path is too
narrow for us to walk together — shall I lead
the way V

I think I know this path better than
you ; I will go first.'

I thought . . .' began Meyer, and then
suddenly checked himself

Winyard turned, and in the moonlight
the two young men looked into each other's
eyes for a moment in silence. The Englishman
was smiling, but his companion was
grave.

You thought V said the former interrogatively.


I thought that you might consider yourself
at an undesirable disadvantage.'

With a shrug of the shoulders and a short
laugh, Winyard turned again and led the
way. At the first they were silent, but
later, when they were able to walk side by
side, they talked — or, to be more correct,
Meyer talked while his companion listened.

VOL. I. 18

Thus they made their way across the dewy
fields together — the artist and the diplomate,
one whose feehnofs are his greatest aid and
virtue, while to the other such commodities
must necessarily be a drag and hindrance.
The impetuous foreigner, transparent as the
day in his unreserved sorrow, and the cool
Englishman with his ready smile, as impenetrable
as the ripple on the surface of a
mountain lake, which hides the depth and
dissembles unsuspected recesses beneath the
glance of superficial merriment.

The young Russian made no pretence of
talking on general topics. Marie Bakovitch
was the one interest of his life, and of her
he spoke with that name enthusiasm which
is less apt to make us smile when it is expressed
in French. To Winyard, however,
these raptures had a peculiar interest, and
he was far from laughing at them. Gradually
he learnt the true character of the girl
who had devoted a year of her life to the

quest of his, and the more he learnt the
more he wondered. It is difficult for a
strong man, whose control over his mind
and heart is almost as great as that exercised
over the more mechanical portions of his
body, to understand the character of a compassionate
yet weak, firm and yet febrile,
like Marie. Still more difficult is it for him
to sympathize with such a character. In
his eyes the passion has no grandeur, it is
mere weakness ; the firmness is nought else
than unreasoning obstinacy. As Meyer
talked on, Winyard was half ashamed to
find that he could only despise Marie and
pity her lover. It is not a pleasant sensation
for a young man to feel that he despises
a girl, especially if she be young and beautiful,
as this strange maiden undoubtedly was.
The thought jars against his sense of chivalry,
and seems almost a sacrilege ; it upsets,
once and for all, one of youth's most precious
illusions.

18—2

With a man's impartiality (for no woman
ever yet placed both sides of a question on
an even footing — thank goodness !) Win-yard
combined the happy possession of an
intuition delicate and sensitive as that of a
woman. It is by aid of this mental sensitiveness
that women o-ain in a short conversation,
or even a momentary glance, an
impression which was never conveyed bywords,
or passed from eyes to eyes. It
comes — and there, long after the remembrance
of the accompanying incidents has
passed away it is found like the precious
deposit at the bottom of a gold-digger's
pan.

Upon Winyard's mind this midnight conversation
— the only one he ever had with
Ivan Meyer — left a distinct impression, without,
however, any reasoning to bear it up.
No doubt the more delicate machinery of a
woman's mind would have turned out neater
handiwork; but such as it was, the impression

was there : and ever afterwards he knew and
felt that Marie had never loved Ivan Meyer,
and that therein lay the explanation of her
strange conduct.

HE streets of Walso were deserted
when the two men entered the
little town. The moon, now rapidly
clearing the heavens of a few fleecy clouds
that still remained, shone placidly down upon
the gray stone houses with their red-tile
roofs. No window was lighted up, and the
clean white blinds gave back the soft moonlight,
and seemed to speak of healthy,
quiet slumber, the reward of a hard day's
toil.

Meyer opened noiselessly the door of Mrs.
Armstrong's cottage.

I covered the windows,' he said in a

whisper, ' from inside, so that one cannot seethe
light of the lamp.'

Winyard followed his guide into the dark
passage, closing the door behind him. A
moment later his companion pushed open
that of the tiny parlour, and a stream of
light poured out on to the plain wall and 
floor.

Come, monsieur,' he said, after glancing
into the lighted room ; and as Winyard
obeyed he mechanically and critically noted
the hideous pattern of the oil-cloth upon the
floor.

Marie was seated near the table, with
both arms resting upon its dull red cover.
The soft lamp-light gleamed upon her flaxen
hair, and defined her white profile against the
dark wall beyond. She turned her eyes
wearily towards the door as the two men entered,
but there was no light of recognition
in her face. It was at that moment that
Winyard was struck for the first time by the

wonder of her great beauty. He had never
before seen her without her hat, and in the
soft light her lovely supple hair had a gleam
of gold upon it, borrowed from the lamp's
rays. Her light blue eyes looked darker by
the same reason, and from the red tablecloth
there arose a pink glow which cast
over her pallid face a rosy hue of life. But it
was a soulless life, and the young Englishman
winced as he met those vacant, pleading eyes.

Meyer motioned him to stand aside in a
corner near the ' ikon,' where the tiny oil-lamp
flickered little ruby shafts of light across
the holy picture. Then he approached her
and said :

Marie, I have brought him.'

The girl took not the slightest notice ; indeed
she did not appear to hear his voice,
but sat gazing dreamily at her own hands
lying idly on the table before her. And
now the patient lover went to her side, and
laid his hand upon her lifeless wrist.

Marie !' he whispered, speaking Russian
for the first time in Mistley's presence.
My little Marie ! I am Ivan — do you not
know me V

She slowly raised her eyes from the contemplation
of her own hands, and fixed them
searchingly on his face.

^ Ivan !' she said at length, in a sweet deep
voice. ' You have come already" ! Are they
waiting to take me away ?'

Who, my Marie V

The soldiers, for I have killed him — I
have killed him !' Her voice died away to
a whisper.

No, you have not killed him, Marie.
He is here !' said Meyer, speaking slowly as
one speaks to a child.

Who is here V

Winyard Mistley — he has come at your
own request !'

No, Ivan ; no ! I shot him at the
stream. I killed him. I will never see him

again, for he is dead. I told him to stop,
but he came nearer ; he never took his eyes
off mine — he never hesitated ; and as he
came — as he looked at me — I thought it was
the other. He looked so brave and calm,
but . . . but the other is bigger . . . bigger
and braver !'

When Winyard was excited, or at moments
when his nerves were on tension, awaiting
the time for action, he had a peculiar habit
of drawing in his lij^s, first the lower and
then the upper, as if they were searched
and needed moisture. This action made his
square jaw look squarer, and by sympathy
his gray eyes grew dogged and dark beneath
the motionless lashes.

All this time he had been standing in the
darker corner of the little room, with keen
observant eyes upon the lovers. One brown
hand was religiously executing Mr. Czerny's
Xo. I. five-finger exercise on the top of an
old three-cornered oak cupboard ; and his

lips yere slowly moistening each other.
Perfectly calm and collected, watchful, alert,
and keen, he waited his time. At last he
stepped forward, and with a little sign to
Meyer to let him speak, he said :

Xo, Mademoiselle Bakovitch ; you are
entirely mistaken. You did not shoot me.'

The girl looked up at him with eyes
vague at first and wondering ; but gradually
the rays of a reasoning soul shone through
them, and with a motion of her hand towards
the soft hair over her temple, she spoke :

You — here,' she said ; ' you ! Why have
you come ? Where is the other ? He does
not come. I want him ; not you.'

She rose from her seat, and wandered
vaguely up and down, glancing at the two
men from time to time furtively, with
troubled, distrustful eyes. It seemed as if
reason had completely forsaken her brain,
for she murmured incoherently in a strange
medley of lano^uao-es. After a few moments

she suddenly recovered her senses, and appeared
to recognise the two men again. It
was a terrible sight, and even Winyard
Mistley looked pale and bewildered, while
his companion watched Marie with the dull
calmness of despair.

With a gesture, which was almost a command,
he bade her resume her seat, and then
in a masterful tone he spoke :

Mademoiselle,' he said, ' I must ask you
to leave England at once. You will return
home, and immediately send in your resignation
to the Society of Patriots on account of
your approaching marriage with Monsieur
Meyer, which will disqualify you as a member.
Have I your promise that you will
leave here — if not tomorrow — as soon as
possible ? I ask this of you, though it is in
my power to command. And now I beg of
you, for the sake of Ivan Meyer, for the
sake of all you love on earth, to give up
for ever your connection with any political

society. Politics are not for women ; it is a
man's work — leave it to men. Every woman
who has meddled with them has brought
misery to herself and sorrow to those who
loved her.'

The girl slowly raised her e^^es to his, and
watched his earnest face as he spoke. There
must have been something strange in her
gaze, for the young fellow winced beneath
it. It had never been his lot to look on
genuine, hopeless misery before ; but he instinctively
recognised what he saw in those
sad blue eyes.

I will go,' said Marie softly.

Then Winyard mechanically moved towards
the door. AVith a silent inclination
of the head, he left them. Meyer alone
returned the salutation, but did not stir from
his position near to Marie Bakovitch.

With deliberate care and noiselessness, the
young Englishman passed out into the passage,
and raised the latch of the outer door.

The little street lay silently in the white
moonlight, which touched the old houses and
moss-grown tiles with a fairy-like glint. Ashe
paused on the threshold, he heard a quick
footstep behind him, and Ivan Meyer stood
at his side.

You see,' he whispered, ' she is going
mad !'

In all and through all, Winyard Mistley
was eminently practical.

Are you quite alone V he asked. ' Have
you no friends in England ? Has she no
maid, even, with her V

Yes ; she has a maid who is now sleeping
in her room. She is young, but intelligent.'

You must rouse her. Let her persuade
mademoiselle to go to bed, and she must
remain by her side to-night. In the morning,
if mademoiselle is better, you must get
her away from here at once. If . if she
is worse, send to me, and my mother will
come to her . a woman will know best

what is to be done. I cannot understand
. . anything ; but I am convinced that
mademoiselle is not going mad : it is only
temporary. I think it must be what is
called hysteria. Have you no friends in
England V

^ We have but one — a Monsieur Jacobi, of
London.'

^ Monsieur Jacobi, of London . . . who is
he V asked Winyard.

I know him very slightly ; but he has
been kind to Marie. He is a musician, and
. . and is connected with some society ta
which Marie belongs.'

Winyard shook his head.

He is no good then,' he said. ' You
must go to your Consul, that is all. If I
do not hear from you by eleven tomorrow
morning, I will know that you have left
Walso ; but if you require assistance of any
description, write to me or telegraph at
once. Put my name in full — Winyard —

W-i-n-y-a-r-cl — in the address, so that no
mistake can arise. Do not thank me, for I
have done nothing yet. Good-night.'

And so they parted. With everything to
make them bitter enemies, they had yet been
friends. Their acquaintance had been of buta
few hours' duration, for they never met
again. To one it was a mere incident in a
busy life, a few hours taken from the many ;
an unavoidable divergence from the clearly-defined
path of his career, to aid a straggler
on the mountain-side. To the other, it was
an event of some importance in an existence
overshadowed by persistent ill-fortune. It
was a ray of light upon the darkness, which
only passed away and left the shadow deeper
by comparison.

Ivan Meyer re-entered the cottage, and
closed the door. Marie was waiting for him
in the little parlour. She was sitting by
the table, and her attitude was characterized
by a peculiar stillness which had no feeling

of repose about it. He stood watching her
for some moments with weary, yearnings eyes
and hao-aard face.

Marie he said at length, in a voice that
was no longer pleading as of old, ' let us
understand each other.'

Yes, Ivan,' she replied softly. ' What
do you not understand V

He came nearer, and, leaning one hand
upon the back of her chair, he bent over
her.

Will you do what the Englishman
asks?'

Yes,' she replied in a dull voice.

All ?' he asked, with trembling lips.

^ Yes, Ivan — all. We will go to america
as you desire. Oh ! I am so tired — my
head is throb binof ! I will o^o to bed now.
Good-night, Ivan !'

She rose and extended her hand to him.
In a wondering manner he raised the delicate
fingers to his lips — very tenderly, very

VOL. I. 19

lovingly — and held the door open while she
passed out.

Then he dropped into a chair, and sat
staring stupidly at the paraffine lamp till the
distant chime of two o'clock aroused him,
and sent him mechanically to his room.

Winyard Mistley walked slowly through
the peaceful fields. He had lighted a beloved
briar-wood pipe, and in the calm air
the transparent puffs of smoke rose with a
pensive regularity. He noted the soft mist
lying over the lowlands by the river ; he
followed the bold outline of the distant hills
against the glowing heaven, wondering at
the lace-like fineness of the trees, each tiny
branch of which stood in dark relief — and
yet he was not thinking of these darksome
glories. The hurried scuttle of an occasional
mouse in precipitous retreat disturbed him
not, for he knew the night, and loved it with
the love of an Oriental.

A few hours before, he had felt only an

unchivalrous contempt for Marie Bakovitch
the contempt of a strong and steadfast
mind for a weak and wavering — and now
there was nought but pity in his heart. A
change brought about by one long glance of'
her mournful eyes, and he despised himself
a little for this same Christian weakness —
pity.

I know now,' he said to himself beneath
the still night sky — ' I know now why
women invariably come to grief over politics.
It is because they cannot separate the two
lives — the political life and that of a woman.
There is something in this beyond me altogether
— something that I cannot get at.
Another fellow is mixed up in it, that is
certain ; but who he is, and what he is, and
where he comes in, goodness knows ! The
^•' other," she calls him, and somehow it
sounds like Charlie, which is of course ridiculous
. . . unless . . . bv George ! . . . unless
she has mistaken him for me, and he has

19 — 2

been playing the same trick on me as I have
been playing on the Colonel. But all that
is practically impossible. There was something
about the expression of her face that
I cannot understand . . . perhaps some day
I will.'

His thoughts then drifted on in other
channels, and he increased his pace.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING A SONS, PRINTERS. Guildford.

S. d- II,

m.

^*

«l^
& ^«.^

1STLE\

mim

Volet

0112 041770352

co:

Ism

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/youngmistley02merr

Tis but of victors poets tell.

Who knows but, in a humbler place,

Runs one who has run just as well ? —

Debarred by some slight accident,

Withheld by freak of cruel fate,

Fighting against discouragement,

And grasping hope that comes too late.

Victory may be dearly won,

Brave he who gained the foremost place ;

Yet bravest may, when it is run,

Be he who ran the losing race.'

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENT LEY AND SON,

publishers in tfDrbinarg to ^tjcr ^Wajestu the (Queen.

1888.

[All Rights Reserved.]

CHAPTER I.

Monday evening had been fixed
for the first rehearsal of the great
dramatic entertainment ; and, as
the time came near, Lena discovered that
she was growing just a little nervous. Her
part caused her few misgivings, for she knew
it perfectly, having passed a most stringent
examination at Charlie's hands; to the acting
of it she gave but little thought, leaving it,
as actors should, to come of its own sweet
will upon rehearsal. There were, however,
vol. ii. 20

some trifling remarks on the well-worn pages
of her play-book that gave the maiden great
misgivings. These were printed in italics,
and read as follows, or to like effect : ' Takes
her hand ;' ' Places one arm round her ;' and
so on, being instructions to a young man as
to the manner in which he should make love.
Assuredly an utter waste of printing-ink,
especially when Lena Wright was to be the
victim of such scandalous liberties.

Charles Mistley, as stage-manager, had
naturally spoken much of the play, giving,
in his good-natured lazy manner, tentative
opinions, and asking advice from Lena and
his brother upon sundry situations to be depicted.
Of all had he fully treated, excepting
this one most trying scene between herself
and Winyard ; and this he appeared content
to leave to their discretion. Once, indeed, he
observed, with a little shrug of the shoulders,
that the italics were often useless, and that
different people had a perfect right to read

the parts in different ways. This vague remark
Lena took as referring chiefly to those
italics which somehow seemed to her to be
most prominent in the whole book ; and she
even gained some comfort therefrom, though
Winyard, who heard the speech, only nodded
his head, and let the subject drop. At times
she regretted woefully that she had undertaken
this most difficult role of a maiden who loved
a villain, knowing him to be such, to the
detriment of an upright man whom she could
only respect. She almost wished that the
whole affair had never been planned, and
looked back in wonderment to the time when
she herself had been the prime mover in it.
What had come to her since then — what had
made Charlie so different — what was this
great change in everything and everybody ?
Ah, Lena ! Ask what it is that makes a
cloudy sea look bright and happy — what
gives the sound of sweetest music to the
mournful rustle of autumn leaves — what

20—2

makes sad people gay, and gay folks
sad ?

Instinctively she knew, however, that the
part was within the scope of her little-tried
histrionic powers. She felt that she could
endow it with life and semblance ; and, above
all, she understood the character of the girl
she was intended to represent.

Such stage intercourse as she had with
Charlie gave her no trouble. He was, indeed,
supposed to be her lover, but of an
old standing in love, and therefore less embarrassing
; while the difficulties that lay in
Winyard's path, of a cross and undercurrent
stream of passion, flowing into and discolouring
with its villainy the purer and colder
river of mild affection, required a tact and
dramatic delicacy which Lena knew him to
possess. Though, indeed, she knew nothing
about it, only divining by aid of maidenly
intuition, which turns from evil as surely as
the compass-pole turns from the south.

But these were only Lena's thoughts, and
sacred to her own heart. When she and
the brothers talked of the coming representation,
so keen was their delight in it, so
sparkling the shafts of their wit, and so inconsequent
their remarks, that the two mothers
(who complained that the onus of the whole
affair rested with them) gave it as their
opinion that the piece would turn out to bean
absurd farce, the true and skilful pathos
of it being beyond the comprehension of such
light-headed performers.

The first rehearsal bid fair to realize the
misgivings of the elder ladies, so intensely
ludicrous was it after the preliminary nervousness
had quite worn off. This was the result
of a deliberate plan on the part of the stage-manager,
whose experience taught him that
rehearsals beginning with laughter usually
finished up with successful acting. Winyard
and Lena were not in the first scene, and
Charles Mistley's part was too unimportant

to have effect on it, the consequence being
that it passed off very solemnly ; and Mrs.
Wright, who was prompting, had but little
work to do. The second scene began in the
same manner.

Win — this will never do,' whispered
Charlie. ' It is more like a School-Board
examination than anything else. We must
wake them up somehow.'

Winyard promptly obeyed his brother's
instructions, and on receiving his cue, introduced
two new elements into the performance
merriment, and earnest acting, which can
be combined with great facility. He set
Walter Sandford at his ease by a passing joke,
and a demand for his advice as to the placing
of some furniture. Miss Mabel Sandford
he pleased and amused by beginning to make
love to her in mistake for Lena, calling forth
from her ready tongue a maternal reproof.
In short, this quick-witted youth carried out
to perfection his manager's wish in pulling

the company together, and setting everyone
at ease.

Mrs. Wright, instead of prompting, helplessly
wiped the tears of laughter from her
eyes ; while Walter Sandford, the shy and
awkward, rolled on a sofa in an ecstasy of
amusement, which found vent in loud and
unrestrained guffaws.

The end of the third act was approaching,
and Lena felt with some misgivings that her
difficulties were at hand, in the parting between
her and the villain she was supposed
to love, despite his villainy ; a way which
women have.

She thought that Winyard must have forgotten
the coming scene, so cheerful and
thoughtless he appeared to be ; but in this
she was mistaken. It is so easy to pass
from one emotion to the other, the difference
between a possible comedy and a possible
drama is so infinitesimal, that we get sadly
fogged in real life, hardly knowing whether

we should laugh or weep ; and so mixed up
in this respect are our cheerful neighbours
across the Channel that they have only one
name for the two, calling everything a
comedy, which perhaps is wisest after all.

In the midst of all the laughter, the idea
suddenly came to Winyard that it would bea
worthy triumph to quell the merriment,
supplementing it with the opposite emotion,
which is as near at hand.

In a whisper he said to Lena :

Now we will show them what we can do !'
leaving her to understand it as she could.

But soon she did understand, and aided
him beyond his expectations. The difficult
scene appeared to pass away as if it were a
portion of their real and earnest lives — for
life is as real and earnest to the merriest of
us as it is to those who pull long faces and
suffer from dyspepsia. Lena forgot all about
those embarrassing italics, though Winyard
obeyed them, and more. By the sheer force

of his dramatic power he carried her away,
and brought forward the talent of expressing
pathos which he had detected when she had
sung unwittingly to him. For the moment
she was no longer happy Lena Wright (for
assuredly nothing could whisper of sorrow in
her young life), but the heart-broken girl,
parting from her lover for ever ; and he,
Winyard Mistley, acted the part as if he
knew too well the pain and anguish he depicted
so cleverly.

First the laughter died away, then vanished
the last smile, as these two searched
deeper and deeper into every human heart
for the emotions which cannot fail to be
hidden somewhere there. It was almost an
inspiration, and quite a passing stroke of
genius. No word of forethought had passed
between them, and yet no mistake could be
detected — the art, if art there were, was so
well hidden, so craftily covered, that none
could determine where it lay.

The spectators were hushed into silent
wonder. With the majority of them, however,
it was merely a piece of clever acting
an exhibition of dramatic talent such as
lies in the power of most of us, though the
demand for it may never come. But to
two of them it was something more. The
prompter drew in a long deep breath, and
glanced nervously towards the stage-manager.
Of course it was acting — mere acting — but
Mrs. Wright did not like it. Such acting,
such rehearsals were dangerous ; and why had
that gray drawn look come over Charles
Mistley's calm face ?

When it was over there was a momentary
silence, as if each person present were waiting
for some one else to speak. Winyard dusted
some imaginary specks of carpet from his
knees, as if family prayers had just been
offered up, and proceeded to move the furniture,
and re-arrange the improvised stage.
This he did quietly and mechanically, which

served very well to ease the breaking of that
silence, and to allow Lena time to come back
to work-a-day speech and thought.

There,' said Mrs. Wright at length,
you have made your prompter feel quite
choky," which must be a triumph of acting.'


Well done !' said the Colonel softly ; and
Charlie suddenly clapped his strong hands
together, and spoke a little rapidly.

Splendid !' he said — ' splendid ! Everybody
is all that a manager could desire.
We will bring down the house with applause,
I am certain. I am very much obliged to
everyone for the intelligence and diligence
with which they have studied their respective
parts !'

They were all accustomed to Charlie's
peculiar grave jocularity, and laughed readily
enough.

It was too late, Mrs. Mistley thought, to
go through it again, and also she was sure

they must be tired. She glanced at Lena
as she spoke ; but she, at all events, did not
appear fatigued, for she was talking and
laughing gaily with Charlie Mistley.

Soon afterwards the carriages began to
arrive, and the visitors left in twos and
threes.

When, at length, the two brothers were
left alone to smoke a last pipe before going
to bed, they sat for some time without
speaking. They had never been much together,
these two, and perhaps it was owing
to this that they were somewhat different
from other brothers in their mutual love.
Mutual respect had an important place in
the love they bore towards each other, and,
as a rule, brotherly affection is without it.
Charlie knew that his younger brother was
cleverer, quicker, and in every way more
brilliant than himself, and he was content
that it should be so. Indeed, he was proud
of it — proud to be the brother of Winyard

Mistley. And Winyard, the observant, was
fully aware that this big grave brother of
his was a better man than himself. He
could not exactly define this feeling, he could
not determine in what characteristic, in the
possession of what virtues, or the freedom
from what faults, this superiority lay ; but
he felt its presence, and respect was mingled
with his love. Perhaps the consequence
was a diminution of that sense of easy
familiarity which is considered nowadays a
necessary adjunct to love. The Mistley s
were not familiar. Without being formal,
there was in their daily intercourse a
peculiar half-expressed deference for the
feelings of the other, which is more often
found in the north of England than in the
easy south. Their paths in life had divided
very soon, and, as each had pressed on with
firmer stride upon his chosen road, the space
between had grown apace. Sons of a roaming
race, contemporaries of an independent

generation, they were eminently capable of
managing their own affairs, living down their
own sorrows, and passing through their own
joys, each in his individual way. The
thought that they were drifting apart had
never occurred to either of them, and Mrs.
Mistley — a soldier's daughter, a soldier's
wife — had early recognised how hopeless it
was to attempt to draw together two men
whose walks in life lay so far apart. One
lost in the Punjab, the other in the China
Seas, how could they correspond, how could
they hold together ? And yet withal the
love was there — that shy, awkward love of
man for man which is the most beautiful
conception of the human heart. Mrs. Mistley's
life had been one wherein the shadow
predominated over the sunshine ; but one of
the brightest periods of it was that short
time at Broomhaugh — those few weeks
wherein the brothers had come together
again — and she found that her anxiety had

been but vain, that the wonderful tie of kinship
had never snapped through all the
strain of years.

On this particular evening, Winyard felt
a strange increase of affection towards his
brother. Never before had they possessed
so many interests in common ; never had
the thought come so prominently before his
mind that too little had been said between
them, too much left to the imagination.

Charlie sat by the open window of the
little study in a low basket-work chair, and
smoked with that good-natured placidity
and sense of strong repose which suited so
well his fair face and splendid stature. Win-yard,
seated near the screened fireplace,
smoked more rapidly, as if to keep pace
with his quicker thoughts, consuming more
tobacco, enjoying it perhaps less. The calm
peacefulness of his brother's demeanour
quelled the words that were within his
heart, bade him be as self-contained and

self-suppressing, drove back the restless
eagerness of his soul, and spoke of a quiet
attendance on the course of events which
was beyond his comprehension, and had no
place in his character.

If Winyard could only have seen beneath
that calm and indifferent exterior, he might
have found encouragement, he might have
put into words the unusual thrill of brotherly
love that warmed his heart. But Englishmen
are not made so, and the moment
passed, never to return ; the opportunity
came no more, and Silence numbered another
victim to her ruthless bow and spear. It is
only on the stage that men have time and
opportunity to make that little farewell
speech which is to put a graceful finish to
our comedy, clearing up the doubtful passages,
explaining away misunderstandings,
and mingling a prayer for charitable remembrance
with the rumble of the curtain roller.
It almost seemed as if Winyard Mistley

knew that this was a last chance of breaking
down that invisible barrier which stood
between his brother's heart and his own, a
barrier which was nought else but shyness
and a habit of reserve on either side.

It almost seemed as if his imagination
could span the four hundred miles of silent
night-ridden land that lay between him and
two gray-haired, grave-faced men who were
at that moment speaking of him within a
little curtained room beneath Westminster's
great tower. It seemed as if he could read
the message addressed to him, and containing
the mandate of an almost certain doom
that lay beneath the anxious statesman's
hand.

VOL. II. 21



HE following morning at the ,
a telegram was handed
to Winyard, with the intimation
that the messenger was awaiting the reply.
The young man broke open the envelope,
and read the flimsy pink paper. It took
him scarcely a couple of seconds to glance
over it, and he proceeded immediately to
fill in the address on the reply-form enclosed.
All at the table noticed that there was no
hesitation, no indecision in his movements,
and they remembered that incident later.
Then he added the single word ' Yes,' and

handed the reply over his shoulder to the
servant.

May I trouble you for the jam ?' he said,
with an impudent smile towards Mrs.
Wright ; and it was only after he had
helped himself largely to that condiment
that he tossed the telegram to his brother
at the head of the table. Life had, it
seemed, for him no earnest side at all.

The bite of toast which Mrs. Mistley had
just placed between her strong short teeth,
tasted as no toast had ever tasted to her
before. It was a peculiar mixture of absolutely
no flavour and a nauseating bitterness.
She knew that this telegram was important,
and meant the end of these happy
days ; all her live senses were lost in one
great throb of sad foreboding.

In the meantime, Charlie had read the
telegram ; and his face had remained inscrutable
beneath the quick gaze of two pairs
of undeniable eyes. Lena was at his side,

21 2

and therefore could not see his face. She
was smiling bravely at some cheerful remark
of Winyard's. Strange to say, Charles
Mistley did not raise his calm eyes to his
brother's face after having read the message ;
he looked past the pink paper, sideways,
down at Lena's hand, which rested on the
table close to him. The small white wrist
was trembling as if from extreme cold ; and
as the sailor saw this, a momentary contraction
passed across his eyes.

The Colonel had laid down his knife and
fork. One brown hand lay on the tablecloth
in striking contrast to its whiteness,
with fingers slightly apart as if in readiness
to grasp something. His solemn eyes, beneath
their heavy brows, were fixed upon his
secretary's face with an old man's deep and
.silent expectation.

Only when the door had closed behind
the servant who bore the unhesitating answer,
did Winyard speak of the telegram.

You might let the Colonel see it —
Charlie he said coolly.

Business ?' inquired Mrs. Mistley with
well-suppressed anxiety, as the folded telegram
was passed from hand to hand.

Yes,' answered her younger son, with his
sever-ready smile ; ' my valuable services are
once more required by a grateful country.'

What !' exclaimed Mrs. Wright with
sudden indignation, which might have been
partly assumed. 'After a fortnight's holiday !
I should refuse, if I were you !' The good
little lady was desperately anxious to keep
the conversation going, for she had seen her
husband change colour, and look up gravely
at Winyard. She also knew that Lena had
seen this too.

He that has put his hand to the plough
should not look back, as Shakespeare or someone
has observed,' said Winyard readily.

I think,' said Lena, with a clear, bravo
laugh, ' that it is in the Bible.'

This was precisely what Winyard wanted,
and he laughed promptly by way of encouraging
the others.

May I have half a cup, mother — only
half,' he said presently, handing his cup, but
without raising his eyes from the table.

Certainly ! I beg your pardon !' Mrs.
Mistley proceeded to raise the lid of the
coffee-pot, and look inside, as if she were
about to make the strange mistake of adding
water. She even extended her hand towards
the hot-water jug, but somehow Winyard's
finger and thumb reached it first, and held it
firmly to the table, though the part he held
must have been unpleasantly warm. The
unwonted resistance sufficed to recall Mrs.
Mistley's wandering thoughts, and she
glanced quickly at her son to see if his
action had been the result of intention and
rapid observation, but he was looking the
other way. It did not strike her at the
moment that it would be difficult for anyone

to hold the bottom of a hot-water jug
and be so supremely unconscious of it, but
the incident was remembered afterwards.

I suppose said Colonel Wright, handing
back the telegram, ' that you said yes.'

I did replied the young fellow cheerfully.

And,' observed his mother pleasantly,
are you going to tell us where you are
going, what you are going to do, and when
you are going to do it ?'

Certainly,' he replied, looking at his chief,
whereat the old soldier smiled. The meaning
of which was that the elder man's simple
diplomacy consisted chiefly of a discreet
silence ; while, in contention, Winy arc! advocated
a seemingly rash straightforwardness.
' Certainly. I am despatched to Central
Asia on a mission of some sort ; but having
no details yet, I am specially warned against
disclosing them.'

No one spoke, and no one made a pretence
of continuing the morning meal for some

minutes. Outside, the rattle of a horse's
hoofs on the hard road broke the silence
of the quiet valley. Mrs. Mistley looked
towards the window, and listened to the
dying sound. Central Asia again ! That
dim, unknown land was destined to haunt
her life. She knew only too well its dangers
and manifold horrors. The sound of the
horse's hoofs upon the road seemed to resolve
itself into a weary repetition of the words
Central Asia ' — ' Central Asia ' — * Central
Asia !' until it gradually died away in the
low hum of the Broomwater. All at that
table were more or less connected with the
East — all felt the presence of that lowering
cloud which grows and subsides again from
time to time, like the clouds of heaven ; and
all knew that one day it will swell and gather
darkness until the storm bursts at last. The
meaning of that brave word ' Yes ' was patent
to them all.

But Mrs. Mistley was a brave woman ;

also she was born (as could be seen from her
soft inscrutable gray eyes) on the sunny side
of the barren Cheviotss, where folks do not
hold much by an undue display of feeling.
So she smiled upon her son, and asked :
When ?'

I must be in town he replied, studiously
looking out of the window, ' on Friday afternoon.'


Lena it was who broke the silence that
followed this announcement.

Then,' she said very quietly, ' we must
have the theatricals a day earlier.'

This remark, uttered in a most matter-of-fact
voice, had the effect desired by its utterer.
It relieved the tension, and gave Winyard
something to chatter about. Charley also,
in his slow way, took advantage of it to
create a diversion with the toast-rack, which
terminated in a resumption of breakfast. It
was rather strange that, with two clever-women
of the world at the table, these young

people should thus have to take matters into
their own hands.

I have a better idea than that,' Winyard
hastened to say. ' We cannot well have the
theatricals a day earlier now that everyone
has been invited. Mother, tell me, is there
not a train from Newcastle at five in the
morning ?'

Yes,' replied Mrs. Mistley promptly. She
was one of those rare women who can at a
juncture give a decided opinion as to the
time of day.

Well then, if the Colonel will be so good
as to lend me his horse, we can manage it
beautifully ! We have not an animal in the
stable that I can thoroughly trust — mine is
too young.'

Do you mean to say,' observed Lena,
that you would ride into Newcastle after
the theatricals and the dance, at some unearthly
hour in the morning — twenty something
miles ?'

Certainly ; it would be rather a joke !'

Winyard's idea of a joke,' said the Colonel
with some deliberation, while he kept his
eyes fixed upon his plate, ' has always been
peculiar.'

The old soldier looked very grave, and
made no attempt to keep up the conversation.
This did not suit Winyard at all, who
said cheerily :

Will you lend me your horse, Colonel ?
I will be most careful with him, and will
send him back by train from Newcastle.'

Oh yes ! You are welcome to the horse,
my boy,' said the old fellow ; and Lena noted
the rarely-used expression of endearment.

You had better take my mare,' she said
airily. ' She is faster than Socrates.'

Winyard was about to refuse, but, looking
up, he met Lena's eyes, and then for a
moment he hesitated, finally saying :

Thank you !'

Thus the question was left open, but

gently biased on one side, like a woman's
impartial judgment.

Breakfast over, Charlie accompanied the
ladies out on to the terrace, while the
Colonel followed Winyard to the little study.
When the door was closed, the old soldier
looked suddenly round at his companion with
a characteristic brusqueness of manner.

Why have you undertaken this wild expedition
to Bokhara ?' he asked.

Because,' replied Winyard, with a certain
playful pride, ' I am about the only man who
has a chance of getting there unknown.'

And do you believe that any good will
come of it ?'

'No. 5

It was in such incidents as this that the
young fellow occasionally betrayed his military
training, and the old soldier loved to
see it. Blind obedience to orders, yielded
by intelligent, thinking men, has been the
making of England.

How will you go about it ?'

Through Russia, I think. I want to
have another look at Moscow, and would
perhaps have a chance of picking up some
maps there.'

But,' said the Colonel, ' you will never
get into the country now. They know you
too well.'

My idea was,' said Winyard thoughtfully,
' to get a new passport written out by
that fellow they have at the Office, who
writes such an atrocious fist that no one can
read it. I would go from Hull to Cronstadt
by sea. The officials there are so numerous
and so self-satisfied, that in all probability I
should get passed through under a name of
their own construction ; through no fault of
mine, you understand, but owing to the
badly-written passport, and my own unfortunate
inability to speak any language but
English. If that way fails, there are others
equally simple. Then to Moscow by a slow

day-train ; there I would get other passports
from some of our terribly mysterious Polish
friends of the " English Club," go out of
Moscow to the South a different person to
him who entered from the North, leaving my
passport in the hands of the authorities to
file away among the State archives. By the
time the police began to wonder why the
passport was not called for, I should be
beyond their reach. The plan is more underhand
than I quite care about, but with such
despotic people there is no avoiding a little
trickery. It is simple, and likely to succeed
on that account, I think.'

The Colonel was accustomed to Winyard's
quickness of thought, and evinced no surprise
at the rapidity with which this plan had
been conceived, worked out, and laid before
him ' cut-and-dried ' within ten minutes of
the event which had called for its birth.
For half an hour the two men talked over
the matter, calmly and in detail. Seeking

to be honourable and straightforward, as behoves
Englishmen even when in intercourse
with men who know not the meaning of such
words, and determined to carry out the
mission intrusted to one of them at all risks,
and in face of every difficulty, as behoves
brave men and patriots.

It was not without a sigh of envy (that
sad and hopeless envy of old for young) that
the Colonel listened to Mistley's plans and
hopes ; but he felt all the while that even in
his best days he would never have been equal
to this daring young traveller in brilliancy
of conception, rapidity of execution, and
steadiness of purpose. There is no greater
antidote for cankering envy than this same
suspicion of inferiority. There was also in
the old soldier's heart a pleasant glow of
self-congratulation that the man chosen for
this hard task should be his subordinate. A
rough-riding young diplomate (a race quite
distinct from the scented, wordy intriguers

of audience - chamber or conference-hall),
whose debut had been made under his own
leadership, and whose knowledge came from
his own teaching and experience.

Both men fully knew the dangers likely
to be incurred, though neither spoke of them.
Both had stepped over the threshold of that
mysterious land of the far East, and for them
the half forgotten names of its cities had no
halo of Arabian-nighttime glory. They took
small account of these, except to denude them
of the untold splendour and lavish wealth bestowed
upon them by travellers' fables, and to
reduce them ruthlessly to squalid townships.
The hopeless, trackless wastes of desert sand
and rounded stone were of much greater
import to the solitary traveller. To him
these spoke of months spent in weary travelling
by burning sun and chilly night ; they
spoke of a maddening monotony — hunger,
parching thirst, a gruesome solitude, and an
unrecorded death.

Recently Winyard left the
Colonel. The old traveller was
poring over a map, the greater
part of which was occupied by notes of
interrogation implying doubts on the part
of the geographer. Of course it was by the
merest chance that Winyard should pass outby
the window instead of the door, and that
he should cross the smooth lawn and go
straight to the far corner of the old wall.
It was that particular corner from whence
the sea was at times visible far away to the
east.

Adonis followed at his master's heels. Oc-vol.
ii. 22

occasionally he raised his rough muzzle, and
sniffed at the air. There had been rain in
the night, and from the valley there ascended
a subtle odour of refreshed verdure. All
around was fresh and cool and wholesome.
Winyard Mistley crushed up the telegram
within his jacket-pocket, so that the wrinkle
of the paper mingled with the whisper of the
leaves above him. Then he looked round
over the green hills, and softly whistled
a popular air in the most matter-of-fact
manner.

Doubtless it was owing to the merest coincidence
that he found Lena at the corner of
the wall when he approached. She was looking
the other way ; indeed, she was leaning
sideways over the wall to gather some sprays
of woodbine which had climbed up within
reach. The air was scented with a thousand
autumnal odours; but the breath of the woodbine
penetrated, somehow, through all, just
as love is popularly supposed to penetrate

through stone walls and the dead thickness
of accumulated years.

Then these two foolish young people deliberately
did the worst thing possible under
the circumstances. They did nothing, and
said nothing. He stood beside her, and
looked away down the valley to the spot
called Mistley's Gap, where the line of the
meeting hills cuts the sky. She sat there,
and waited for him to break the silence, expecting
some laughing suggestion. But for
the first time within the last few days Win-yard
was serious in her presence.

Lena, finding nowhere else to look, also
gazed down the valley, where the shadows
were blue and hazy, and the sheep as tiny
insects upon the treeless turf.

Adonis now conceived the brilliant idea
that something must be wrong, and promptly
proceeded to put his paw into it, as might
have been expected from a blundering old
gentleman dog. He looked at Lena, long



and thoughtfully, with many a blink of his
pink-rimmed eyes ; and then, without opening
his teeth, he observed :

Um — m — m !' A plaintive protest,
which seemed to say, ' If there is anything
to be explained — explain now, and be done
with it !'

Ah, happy Adonis ! In his canine philosophy
such were wisdom indeed. He did
not know that there are many things we
would fain explain but dare not. Many a
sentence left unfinished, to be filled up with

little mental dots — thus, ' 'as the

hearer's taste may dictate. But, after all,
most of these are better left unsaid for ever.
In one case out of the proverbial ten, speech
might alleviate present sorrow ; in the other
nine, it would but increase the pathos of life.
If preaching were 'of any profit, what sermons
might we, who have passed through the mill,
reel off for the benefit of those who follow us !
It is so easy to say, * Never keep a letter —

never preserve brown and withered floral
products about which there hangs the vestige
of a scent, strong enough yet to waken up a
slumbering memory.'

Lena stooped forward, and, taking Adonis
by the fore-paws, she hauled him bodily upon
to the wall, during which process he did
his best to look dignified.

It is strange how cruel men can be. Win-yard
looked down at Adonis as he stood on
the wall with Lena's white arm round him ;
and, as if speaking to the dog, he said :

1 You have never congratulated me.'

He did not raise-his eyes from the contemplation
of the faithful Adonis during the
little pause before Lena spoke.

I congratulate you,' she said indifferently.

Winyard smiled suddenly. The reply and
manner of delivering it were so exactly as he
would have done it himself, that it seemed as
if she were mimicking him.

I am sorry I have to go at such a short

notice he said conventionally ; but he laid
his hand on Adonis's rough back close to her
wrist, which somehow changed the burden of
his remark.

Yes, it is a pity she replied cheerfully,
as if he were leaving to keep some pleasant
engagement.

However he said, stooping to examine
the name inscribed on the dog's collar, which
could not have been very new to him — ' However,
we will get the theatricals in.'

Ye — es . . . we will get the theatricals in.'
He was not looking at the dog now, but
at her.

'Did you really mean that offer of Fairy
to ride into Newcastle to be taken seriously ?'
he asked.

Of course I did — quite seriously.'
Then you think . I am to be trusted ?'
She hesitated for one brief moment, then
raised her eyes to his bravely, and said :
Yes — I think you are to be trusted.'

Winyard was slowly stroking the dog's
shaggy back, and in the confusion of the fur
his fingers touched Lena's hand which was
resting on Adonis's shoulder ; whereupon she
moved higher up on to the woolly neck, thus
leaving a larger piece of canine person free
for caresses. But Winyard was clumsy —
again his hand touched hers, so that Lena
was at length obliged to withdraw altogether.

Woodbine is a wayward growth, hard
to lead when growing, and loving little to
amalgamate with other flowers when gathered.
The few sprays that Lena had procured were
peculiarly difficult to arrange with any degree
of satisfaction, despite the efforts of ten
nimble fingers ; perhaps, however, these were
not quite steady, especially when beneath
Winyard's quiet gaze.

I am afraid,' he observed meditatively,
that I will find no woodbine in Central
Asia.'

Not being well versed in the vegetable

products of Central Asia, I reserve my
opinion,' replied Lena*demurely.

I am afraid,' repeated the ingenuous
youth with a sing-song intonation, ' that I
will find . . . no . . . woodbine . in . . .
Central Asia.'

His hand, resting on Adonis, was half
open, as if expecting something. Then very
slowly two sprays of woodbine were separated
from their brethren, and extended,
perhaps two inches, towards the expectant
hand. With her head poised slightly to one
side, Lena gravely admired them. Still the
open hand did not move. One inch more,
and Winyard's fingers moved to meet Lena's ;
still another inch, and the two sprays bid
farewell for ever to their brethren in misfortune.


Lena rose from her humble seat upon the
clean gray stone, and moved towards the
house.

I know,' she said, ' that Charlie is

patiently working away at the scenery. Let
us be virtuous, and help him.'

And so she led the way into the house,
Adonis and his master meekly following.

Since the midnight interview with Marie
Bakovitch and her lover, Winyard had heard
nothing from or of those unsatisfactory
foreigners. He had duly advised Colonel
Wright of the entire proceedings, and they
had sought in vain some likely explanation
of Ivan Meyer's peculiar conduct, for diplomatists
grow sadly sceptical regarding the
disinterestedness of human motives. Also is
it difficult for the practical Western mind to
comprehend the strange Quixotism of the
Slav nature.

Winyard was somewhat uneasy about the
whole affair. His own personal risk in the
matter did not appear to him very great ;
but he was fully aware that he ran great
risk of misapprehension, or, worse still, misrepresentation,
if the circumstances of his

connection with Marie Bakovitch should
transpire. A story such as that could so
easily be twisted and turned into something
quite different. He would have felt still
more apprehensive had he known that his
beautiful enemy had actually been a guest in
Mrs. Wright's house under the name of the
Baroness de Nantille, and that she was
therefore personally known to his mother,
Mrs. Wright, Lena, and his brother Charlie.
But Winyard was spared these additional
complications. Ivan Meyer had faithfully
fulfilled his promise of leaving Walso with
Marie as soon as possible, which, however,
was not before the Wednesday morning, as
the girl's condition was not such as would
allow of a long journey. Had Meyer known
that the slight amelioration in the state of
her physical and mental health was only a
temporary lull, he would have felt even
greater relief than he did at turning his back
upon the peaceful little town. The girl bore

the long journey well, but it was written
that a higher Hand than Ivan Meyer's was
now to guide her troubled steps. A blessed
oblivion came over her tottering reason, and
while the mind wandered, the body throve
and prospered.

It was only on the Thursday morning, in
the midst of preparations for the theatricals
and ball, that Winyard learnt of their departure
from Walso. A groom had been sent
into the little town to make some purchases,
and when, on his return, he delivered his
parcels to his young master, he mentioned
that the ' surrendering folks ' had left. It
was a great relief. For although Winyard
was not the man to bow down before an untoward
wind — meeting, rather, every breeze
of heaven as it came with watchful eyes and
steady lips — his was a courage of that type
which can afford to disguise no danger by
detracting from it.

They were all working in different parts

of the old banqueting-hall, which had, for the
time, been converted into a tiny theatre ;
working, each in his characteristic way.
Winyard with a dashing rapidity ; Charlie
with easy-going indifference, accomplishing
much without appearing to exert himself —
directing everything without appearing to
have a will of his own upon any one question.
There was no fuss, no undue haste
about his movements. As usual, he was
ahead of his time, and could afford to waste
a few moments here and there with some
grave pleasantry. Colonel Wright was quite
content to occupy a subordinate position. He
was ready to lift the bigger flower-pots for
Lena, hand the tacks to Charlie, or climb
up a ladder with a hammer for Winyard. It
was during the last-named service, when they
were both perched high up on a ladder, that
Winyard imparted to his chief the news he
had just received.

1 1 have just heard,' he said in a low voice,

as he took the hammer, ' that our foreign
friends have left Walso.'

Then, without waiting a reply, he turned
and began driving a long nail into the hard
beam. Most of us love to drive a nail, though
few care for the more tedious task of first
boring the hole. And so many deals are
split in this world, and many hearts are
broken.

Colonel Wright, from below, watched the
steady swing of the hammer, and noted the
almost boyish delight which Winyard took
in his noisy occupation. It seems that with
some people a proper sense of responsibility —
a realization of life's gravity — never comes ;
and, what is stranger still, they appear to
get on very well without it.

When the nail was driven, and the curtain
duly arranged, the two men descended and
stood back in the hall to enjoy the effect of
their handiwork. They were out of earshot,
and Charlie was hammering somewhere behind

the drop-scene on the stage, so Winyard
took the opportunity of saying :

Colonel — it is just possible that something
may come out in time about Marie
Bakovitch — something untrue I mean, that
might do her harm. If my name should in
any way get on gossips' tongues when I am
away, do not trouble to contradict anything
to the general world. For her the contradiction
would be worse than the slander, for
it would mean a charge of attempted murder.
For myself I thought I did not care
but now I find I do. I should not
like your Mrs. Wright and your
daughter to believe anything they might
hear. You understand V

Yes,' replied the Colonel slowly. ' I understand.
Shall we put up the other curtain
now ?'

HE critical moment had come. The
stage was ready, the footlights
burning cheerily, and Colonel
Wright was at his post with the curtain-cords
held tightly. Through the curtain
came the buzz of many voices, slightly hushed
by expectation.

Charles Mistley, cool and good-natured,
was clearing the members of his unruly little
company off the stage. After a last glance
round he made a sign to Colonel Wright,
and the curtain ran smoothly up. The first
two acts went off merrily enough. The
audience was charitably inclined, and their

charity was not called for, which phenomenon
invariably has a most pleasing effect. The
young manager was more and more surprised
at the excellence of his little company,
especially as regarded the judgment they
displayed in gradually toning down the
merriment as the play progressed, and the
last pathetic scene approached.

It was a cunning play, written by a master-hand,
and cunningly acted. Moreover, it
had been well rehearsed. Charles Mistley
rose to the occasion quietly and steadily, as
was his wont. He appeared to know everyone's
part as well as his own ; but only
displayed this knowledge when absolutely
necessary, for he possessed a virtue without
which no man is a leader — absolute faith in
those beneath him.

The curtain descended at the end of the
second act amidst great applause ; but when
this had died away, a sudden silence supervened.
There was a vague feeling among

the auditors that a crisis was coming — that
they had been made to laugh, simply in
order that they might the more easily be
made to weep. Sad and softly sighing music
which works on the human feelings like
water on a penny bun, softening and enlarging
— now followed.

Charles Mistley had decreed that the
longest interval should be between the third
and fourth acts, on the consideration that
suspense sharpens the mental appetite. Few
alterations were required on the stage, and
Winyard was setting straight things that
were already straight, a way we sometimes
have when expectation is pressing on us,
when Mabel Sandford hurried out of the
ladies' dressing-room.

Winyard,' she said in a whisper, ' I am
awfully afraid Miss Wright is going to breakdown.
When I went into our dressing-room
just now, she was as white as a sheet.
She said there was nothing the matter, and

VOL. II. 23

went out into the conservatory, I believe ;
but I saw her lips trembling, and she walked
unsteadily. I don't want to alarm you unnecessarily,
because I am sure you must begetting
tired yourself, but a glass of wine or
something would probably ]put her right.'

Winyard never liked Mabel Sandford ashe
did at that moment. For the first time
in his presence she had forgotten herself,
and in consequence appeared, as she in reality
was, a very good-natured girl.

Thanks, Mabel,' he said simply. ' I only
hope it is not nervousness. I will take her
some wine, and will also send some into the
ladies' dressing-room. I ought to have
thought of that before. Mind take some
yourself, because your work is not over yet,
and remember you will have to dance till
daylight after this !'

Oh, I am all right, thanks !' laughed the
girl, turning away. ' I have plenty of time
to change my dress, have I not V

Yes, plenty !'

For some moments Winyarcl Mistley stood
motionless, alone, upon the little stage
Then he stooped down, and with peculiar
care smoothed a wrinkle out of the carpet.
Who can tell what were that young fellow's
thoughts ? Perhaps he could not have
analyzed them himself. This evening, a
merry little company — laughter, chaff, and
gaiety. To-morrow, a breaking up ; a dismantling
of all this hollow scenery ; a gray
dusty hall with here and there a flower,
brown and withered, thrown into a corner ;
a dull atmosphere, heavy with the scent of
perfume and paraffine cynically mingled.
Perhaps he realized then that a woman's lot
that aching sorrow of one left behind — is
infinitely harder than men quite recognise.

Slowly he walked across the stage, and
passed out into the garden. In the dimly
lighted conservatory he found Lena sitting
alone. She was leaning forward with her

23 — 2

>f iu- ua

bare hands clasped upon her knee. In crossing
the garden, the little curls above her
temples had been blown aside, and now the
pale light of the lamp suspended among the
ferns above her, fell lovingly on the brown
hair, and drew forth little golden gleams.
She heard the footstep in the darkened
doorway, but did not look up or move.

Winyard stood for a moment in the doorway.
The light fell on her face in such a
way that he could see the gleam of tears in
her eyes. There was a little movement in
his throat and in the muscles of his firm
chin, as if he were swallowing something
with an effort, and then he advanced towards
her with the usual misleading smile. It
would appear that he attributed those tears
to over-excitement in connection with the
last act of the play. Indeed, there was
nothing else for him to do, no other cause
for him to seek, under the circumstances.
No doubt he felt that the evening was tar

from its close as yet, and preferred to ignore
the farewells with which it was to terminate.
Men cannot do things well without giving
their whole mind to the work they have in
hand at the moment, and Winyard was,
without doubt, thinking only of the theatricals.


Tired ?' he said interrogatively.

Lena nodded in acquiescence, and slightly
turned her head so that her face was in the
shade.

1 Miss Wright,' he said with mock severity,
for he was desperately afraid of appearing
serious, ' this will never do !'

She did not reply, and made no attempt
to acknowledge the brilliant sally.

Lena,' he said suddenly, using her Christian
name, which he did but rarely ; ' Lena,
this is not like you !'

She was dressed for the third act — in
white, as he had desired it, of a soft silky
material that clung round her sweet young

form in cunning folds. There was in her
whole being a subtle sense of refinement.
Her dress was perfect ; what little jewellery
she wore was faultless ; even the manner in
which her hair was arranged spoke of the
deft handiwork of practised fingers. As he
stood at her side, the scent of the white
jasmine at her throat reached him, and
brought back the memory of his request. In
an instant he saw that all was exactly as he
had desired it. Was it blindly, or with wondrous
foresight that he persisted still in his
jocularity ?

1 I am a little limp myself,' he said cheerfully.


Then Lena recovered herself, and mentally
stood at bay, as every true woman would have
done in her place.

1 It is very tiring — is it not ?' she said
indifferently.

There was one weak spot in the armour
of her pride. Her voice was calm and perfectly

steady, but its tones were singularly at
variance with the unshed tears that trembled
on her lashes. She had trusted to the advent
of an opportunity to conceal these before he
could see them, not knowing that it was too
late.

It is strange how little incidents remain
fixed upon the human memory, like the few
tiny leaves still green upon a stricken tree
when the others have fallen from it. This
small inconsistency of tearful eyes and a
cheerful voice never quite left Winyard's
memory. Gradually he came to look upon
it as peculiar and individual to Lena ; typical
of her sweet, gentle courage.

And so they acted their little parts alone
in the dim light of a single lamp, without
the aid of stage-effect or music. An rehearsed
effect, an unpremeditated scene ;
vain, empty words spoken with averted eyes.

I cannot quite understand you,' said the
irirl in the same conventional tone of forced

interest. ' I am very much afraid you
must be heartless, and devoid of filial feelings.'


Inasmuch as how ?' he asked, slowly
pulling an innocent fern into small pieces.

Because you completely ignore the fact
that you practically start to-night, after all
this is over, upon a journey which in all
probability will be . . .'

My last !' he suggested frivolously, as he
threw all the particles of fern into the air,
and watched them flutter to the v round as if
it were a most interesting experiment.

She was silent, and appeared to be entirely
absorbed in removing from her dress a small
end of thread left there by a careless seamstress.


At all events, there are risks attached
to it

I think,' he said, * that you are overrating
things a little.'

That wretched little white thread would

keep swimming about in the most unaccountable
manner. Lena longed to give even the
most hurried touch to her eyes ; and even
as she longed, Winyard turned his back to
her, and went beneath the lamp to consult
his watch. Though he contemplated the
blanch face of that reliable piece of mechanism
for some moments, he never saw the time ;
but that did not matter very much.

It would be rather hard to overrate
Bokhara,' she said quietly.

Then he turned and slowly came back to
her side. There was an uncomfortable, drawn
look about his lips, and his eyes were dull ashe
watched her mechanically smoothing the
folds of her dress.

How do you know that it is Bokhara V
he asked in a low, steady voice.

I made . . . papa . . . tell me.'

I am sorry you did that . . . extremely
sorry. Tell me . . . does my mother know V

No ! No one beyond myself. But you

must tell her. It is better that she should
know — even that it is Bokhara — than be
kept in ignorance and suspense. I think
. . that you do not quite understand . . .
women !'

I thought there was something on the
old gentleman's mind,' said Winyard, suddenly
changing his manner. ' Nevertheless,
I still maintain that you are looking at the
worst side of things. There may be one or
two risks, but . I am a very lucky fellow,
you know, and generally turn up smiling at
the end of a difficulty.'

I think,' said Lena, remorselessly refusing
to smile, ' that your talents are a decided
loss to the British stage !'

He looked fixedly at her, as if attempting
to penetrate the obscurity ; but she kept her
face averted, and he could read nothing from
the dainty coils of hair turned towards him.
Then the tone of his voice changed again ;
he dropped his usual semi-bantering style,

and spoke as she had never heard him speak,
except on the occasion of the first rehearsal,
in a voice which conveyed a happy mixture
of pathos and philosophical indifference.

I have a difficult part to play,' he said,
and you are making it doubly so.'

She did not understand him. Her only
feeling was one of anger at her own slowness
of comprehension ; she felt that there was a
deeper meaning in the words than she had
caught, and the moments were slipping —
slipping by.

Come !' he said briskly, offering her his
arm ; ' we will go and get some wine, or yov,
for one, will never get through the next act.
Charlie has been dosing the whole company,
I believe ; it is a way far-seeing stage-managers
have.'

It was something new for Lena to bespoken
to like this — she who never confessed
to fatigue, who could dance till sunrise
; but she meekly obeyed him.

They got through the third act successfully,
and the curtain descended in silence. This
only lasted, however, a moment, and was
quickly followed by deafening applause. It
had been almost too real. The music, the
lowered lights, and perhaps the dull excitement
of the approaching farewell, had affected
the actors, and into their parts they threw
an intensity and earnestness which in the
business-like rehearsals had been beyond their
powers.

It was one o'clock before the last of the
guests at length drove away, and Winyard
ran upstairs to change his clothes for the
long journey before him.

HEN the traveller came downstairs
again, he found the whole party
assembled in the drawing-room.
His rough tweed suit formed a strange,
uncomfortable contrast with the evening
dresses around him. Despite his fatiguing
evening, he appeared quite fresh and energetic.


Charles Mistley was the only other person
present who did not look worn and tired ;
nothing seemed to affect him.

Half an hour before I need leave,' said
Winyard cheerily ; * I mildly propose that
you all go to bed.'

I propose amended his mother, ' that
everyone goes to bed except me. If my
son does these wild things, I should be the
only sufferer thereby.'

And I propose,' said the Colonel, with
his grim smile, ' that we all go and have
some more supper.'

I could not eat a thing,' remarked Mrs.
Wright decisively.

Nor I !' ' Nor I !' came from other parts
of the room.

Mother has had no supper, I know,' said
Winyard ; ' and the Colonel was carving, so
he got nothing to speak of. I propose that
we bring something in here. Come along,
Charlie.'

The brothers presently returned loaded
with plates and other necessaries.

I think,' suggested Winyard, looking
sideways at Lena, ' that it would be most
appropriate to finish up the whole entertainment
with a sono'

The girl silently went to the piano, and
after a short search found a small manuscript-book.
Winyard came up at that moment,
and taking it from her hands, opened it at
the unpublished song which she was singing
when he first saw her. It was on the first
page of the book, written out in a girlish
hand, the notes large and very inky.

Lena began the harp-like accompaniment,
and sang. Slightly behind her, on a low
chair, her father sat and eat cold chicken
with an old man's deliberate enjoyment.
Winyard, in his light-coloured suit, was
perched on the high end of the sofa with his
thick boots dangling. Charlie stood near at
hand, pouring champagne noiselessly into a
glass.

The girl appeared to sing the first verse
with a studied disregard for the meaning of
the words, doing her best to render them
expressionless. The second, however, she
rendered with more of the true intensity ;

but at the end of it she stopped abruptly,
sand closed the book.

1 It is rather too appropriate,' she said,
wheeling round, and pointedly addressing
Mrs. Mistley.

Then she rose from the piano, and crossing
the room, dropped wearily into a low
chair.

I wish you would go to bed, Lena,' said
her mother ; ' you are thoroughly tired out.'

I ! Oh no ! I am not a bit tired. If
I look pale, it is the result of paint and
powder. Professional people are always pale
when the paint is washed off, are they not,
Charlie ?'

Oh yes !' replied the sailor gravely.
Look at me, for example !'

Everyone did so, and laughed at the sight
of his brown and weather-beaten face, which
was exactly what he wanted. Perhaps he
had more faith in his own powers of bearing
a general scrutiny just then than in Lena's.

They talked on in a vague, uninterested
way, as people do at a wedding or a funeral,
while waiting for a curtain to rise, or to kill
time while a ship is sinking beneath their
feet. We are getting very clever nowadays.
Soon the flora and fauna of the world will
be exhausted — soon we will know everything
worth knowing about every animal on earth ;
but of certain phases of the human mind we
know no more now than Noah knew of the inward
thoughts of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

At last the gravel, outside, grated under
the light feet of Lena's mare, and the heavier
tread of a sleepy groom.

Adonis, who had been tranquilly sleeping
in the hall, now sidled his way through the
slightly open door. He looked towards the
window, listening intently the while ; then,
remembering that life is not all repose and
furry mats, he looked briskly at Winyard
with uplifted ear.

Is this anything to do with us, my

vol. 11. L>4

master ?' he asked with his honest, sorrowful
eyes.

It happened that there was silence in the
room just then. Mrs. Mistley was breathing
a little quickly ; she glanced almost furtively
at her younger son's face. Everyone
else was looking vaguely at Adonis, except
Charles Mistley, and he was watching Lena
quietly and indifferently.

i Yes, Adonis,' said Winyard, breaking
the silence, 'you and I must go. There is
no continued rest for sinful dogs !'

It had been arranged that Adonis should
henceforth live in Seymour Street, as Mrs.
Mistley was going to Paris, and Broom -
haugh would be empty.

The stupid dog then deliberately turned
to Lena, and gave a little jerk of his stumpy
tail, accompanied by a bland smile which
seemed to say :

Of course you are included in this
arrangement. '

Come here, you dear old thing,' said Lena
in reply, ' and I will carry you to the door.'

Adonis, who was a philosopher, concluded
that it was no business of his to heed a few
crushed laces. If people liked to embrace
him and carry him about, throwing cool
arms around him and pressing his rough
side against silks and soft muslins, assuredly
that was their affair. Only he tried truly
to behave like a gentleman, and to look as
if he liked it. With due preservation of a
courtly smile, he wondered in his inmost dog
what that was a-pitter-pattering so hurriedly
against his muscular ribs.

On the doorstep his surprise was somewhat
increased (though in nowise betrayed),
when a pair of fresh young lips lightly
touched his shaggy forehead. However, he
gravely cocked his ear for the whisper that
followed :

Adonis, darling, I think my heart is
breaking !'

24—2

He heard, and wagged his tail.

In the meantime Winyard had donned
his gloves. He slipped two fingers beneath
the girths, and gave a preliminary tug at
the stirrup-leathers ; then he turned to say
good-bye.

I expect,' he said, ' to see you all in
town in a week or so. We will not call
this good-bye, because I have not got all
my pretty farewell speeches quite ready.
They require further rehearsals. Do not
stand at the door,' he added, with his imperturbable
cheerfulness. ' You will catch
horrible colds, and abuse me behind my
back !'

Then he mounted. The last person with
whom he shook hands was his brother
Charlie, who had been standing at the
horse's head. It was strange how the
young sailor invariably found something
to do, and was never to be discovered
idle.

1 Come, Adonis !' Winyard called out,
and then he vanished in the darkness.

Despite his injunctions they stood at the
door. Through the still night air the sound
of Fairy's doings came distinctly to their
ears. At first the springy walk that betokens
a desire for more exhilarating work,
then a flighty unsteady trot, soon followed
by an even thud of armed hoofs with a
ringing promise of many miles before a lag
or halt.

Once they heard him say, ' Come along,
old man !' to Adonis, and then the steady
clapper — clapper — clapper ' rose and
fell again. That was all the watchers heard
that and the low murmuring voice of the
Broomwater.

Slowly, slowly, like the memory of our
dead, the sound diminished as Fairy sped
along, till finally it was lost in the brawl of
the stream away down in the dark valley
beneath.

Then Mrs. Mistley, Mrs. Wright, and
the Colonel turned and entered the house.
Lena and Charlie were left alone. They
stood side by side, and listened for a sound
that was dead. So still were they that
Charlie could hear the hurried tick of his
own watch. Lena stood motionless, and
showed no sign of moving. Her companion
waited for some minutes with the peaceful
patience of a sailor, and then he said in little
more than a whisper :

Come, Lena !'

She turned and looked at him vaguely, as
if she had not been aware of his presence.
He was standing in front of the open door ;
a beam of light flooding out into the darkness
rested on his upright form, and gleamed
on the dead white of his linen. He was
motionless and quiet as usual — the personification
of equability and strength. From
his unusual height he looked down at her
gravely.

Come,' he repeated. ' We have had a
hard day — let us go in. Beware of that
little step.'

And, under pretext of guiding her, he took
her hand within his arm, and entered the
house.

They found the old people in the drawing-room.
Something detained Lena in the hall,
so Charlie passed into the room first. He
had a peculiar way of ignoring what people
are pleased to call the necessity of speech,
and now he leisurely crossed the room without
a word. Upon the mantelpiece a candle
was flaring up and smoking, something having
become attached to the wick. To this Charlie
directed his footsteps, and began quietly to
extinguish one candle after another. Mrs.
Wright noted the action, and wondered
whether he was diminishing the light of the
room with a purpose, or whether his occupation
was aimless.

When Lena entered the room, she found

that everyone except Charlie was looking
towards her.

Well V she said smiling, as she crossed
the room.

Well !' replied Charlie at once, without
turning round.

I think,' said Lena, without addressing
anyone in particular, ' that it was a great
success, don't you ? Everybody said they
enjoyed themselves immensely, and I really
believe they meant it.'

1 1 am sure they did,' affirmed her mother
readily, with a little contraction of the eyes.
The floor was lovely, I know, because I tried
it. Charlie led me astray as usual, and
made me dance, against my principles and
despite my gray hairs.'

1 1 heard,' said Lena mischievously, ' several
people talking about an elderly lady from
London being the best dancer in the room.
But . . . there is papa pulling his moustache
to keep himself awake. You old people

keep such shockingly late hours. Puff . . .
there goes a candle — puff . . . there is
another. Good-night, Mrs. Mistley — goodnight,
mother — good-night, poor sleepy old
gentleman . . . Good-night . . . Charlie.'

man can speed through the
night air without experiencing
a more or less clearly defined
sense of exhilaration. One is almost raised
above mere human feelings, which, as we all
know, are fleeting as the sunset redness. It
makes one envy those grand old forefathers
who careered along the broad high-roads
through night and day. It is not merely
the speed itself and the mighty rush of
severed air round bravely prominent ears,
for one can get those by embarking on one
of the fast trains that rush away nightly
from London, like a family of spiders racing

from the centre of their web outwards to
where the tissue is of firmer make, and lifeless
great with pressure. No ! there is something
more — something gathered from the
merry stars or the pale sad moon — something
inhaled with the cool night-odours of the
earth. To enjoy it all it is perhaps necessary
to have the gentle companionship of a horse,
himself slightly nervous by reason of the
huge shadows and ghostlike heaps of broken
stone — to feel him testing, as it were, your
reliability in case of emergency by gentle
mouthing of the bit.

It could not be stated, with that rigid
regard to the truth which the present writer
has invariably endeavoured to observe, that
Winyard Mistley went on his way rejoicing ;
but he was not insensible to the glorious
scene around. A half-moon was setting over
the western heights, her light as yet too
feeble to impair the modest beauty of her
attendant stars. The great sombre hills lay

silent and deserted beneath the brilliant
canopy of night, cutting the dark heavens
with their darker outline.

The sweet subtle odour of the slowly
waving pines mixed with the cool air, and
refreshed all drooping nature with its tonic
strength. Winyarcl inhaled deep draughts
of it, and rejoiced. The wonderful freshness
of our northern nights is a gift fully appreciated
by those who have lived beneath a
warmer zone.

Fairy peeped back with white-gleaming
eyes, and gently [tongued the bit in vain
endeavour to find out who this might be
upon her back. The hand upon the bridle
was as light as Lena's ; but the weight upon
the saddle a very different matter. Also,
she felt a greater watchfulness upon the
movements of her dainty head, as of one
who knew her not, and yet was inclined to
kindly thoughtfulness. There was no longer
the ripple of the habit tickling, yet comforting,

her shining flank ; but still it could not
be the groom (though the odour of tobacco-smoke
was in the air), for the legs were
longer and less cruel in their grip.

The home-like creak of warming leather
had a certain sense of companionship, however
; and as this grew regular with her more
even trot, Fairy began to settle down to her
work with a pleasant respect for him who
was her guide and trusty guardian through
these shadowy horrors of the night.

Then her ears, becoming motionless, at
length discovered the measured tread of four
unshod feet upon the road beside her. Devoting
one ear to the investigation of this,
while the other was deputed to look out for
other surprising matters in front, she soon
arrived at the conclusion that the flying feet
were the property of that pleasant but rather
distant dog of unprepossessing and dishevelled
appearance who had lately arisen
upon the scene.

Adonis felt instinctively that this was no
pleasure-trip, but serious work at last. This
was no time for stopping to inhale at closer
quarters those delightful patty odours that
every now and then assailed his sportive
nostrils — no time to pounce through nettle
and low tangle upon some affrighted little
scuttle who had not the common-sense to
lie quiet till all danger was past and over.
So he set his ears well back, avoiding, like a
clever mariner, all inequalities such as catch
against the wind ; and, allowing to hang
from the leeward side of his mouth his red
and dewy tongue, he sped along. He turned
his eyes neither to the right nor left, but
fixed them on his master's foot passed through
the stirrup-iron above his shaggy head.

Winyard carried no whip — perhaps from
some Quixotic dislike for dealing such admonishment
to the willing little steed that
knew Lena's touch and voice so well. And
in justice to Fairy it must be recorded that

she took no undue advantage. At the
summit of the steep old-fashioned bridge
spanning the Broomwater, she stopped by
command, and drew into her widespread
nostrils the fresh water-tainted air, while
Winyard, peering under the swaying branches,
took a last long look at the brawling trout-stream,
and wondered if ever he should look
on it again — if ever the same trio, Adonis,
Fairy, and he, should stand again together
and listen to the sweet laughing water,
those thousand musical ripples dear to the
heart of a fisherman through all his life.

Then Fairy bravely faced the steady
ascent of the narrow road, zigzag up the
bare hillside. Already the yellowing moon
was kissing the lofty horizon ; already the
eastern sky was changing colour.

The black intensity soon lost its sense of
utter opaqueness ; gradually a light green
shade rose, in fan-like rays, up from the distant
ocean. As the traveller reached the

summit of the pass this slowly acquired a
pink hue of coming richness, creeping softly
up like the blush of pleasure mounting to a
maiden's brow.

Now the rich lowlands, awakening, drew
over themselves a veil of pearly gauze,
leaving the black tree-tops standing out in
shamefaced bulk amidst a sea of cloud.

Fresh morn was hard at work, sweeping
away all shades and mysteries of night ;
even as the light of the great Dawn will
rest upon the shadows of unanswered questions,
and show up in a blaze of glory the
mighty scheme of which we form a detail,
sweeping off all web and entanglement where
dust lies thick and choking.

And now a clear straight line appeared
low down in the eastern sky, dividing the
growing light into two separate shades of
pearly-green.

Winyard Mistley looked on this, and knew
it was the sea. Distant objects on the vast

plain beneath him now began to loom up
from unexpected quarters, like skirmishers
when the bugles call. Beneath this great
unlovely level Nature had, with characteristic
waywardness, hidden broad seams and strata
of her richest treasures.

Above the damp mist towered here and
there, among the sparsely-growing trees,
strange, gaunt erections, black chimneys,
and huge whirling wheels held high
aloft.

As the light increased, a breeze from the
cold North Sea came bowling over the level,
rolling away before it like a huge soft
blanket the morning veil, and laying bare
the thinly-populated land.

Then, from the height, Mistley saw the
distant seaport villages, and followed with
wondering eyes the intersecting railway-lines,
each running from its coal-pit to seaboard,
or to join the broader iron way running
north and south. Around each pit was

v OL. II. 2 5

grouped its little coal village, tiny cottages
and hovels clustering near the great
smouldering heap and spider-like erections,
like starlings round a raven.

On its surface the land was meagrely tilled,
for all the cultivation lay below. Away
beneath those deserted squares of salty pasture
were passages and crossways, lines of
rails and darksome caverns, intersecting,
crossing, recrossing, climbing and descending.


Creeping, crawling, and grovelling, black-faced,
hardy men were for ever under there;
following with tiny tunnel the bent of every
seam. When the coal-dust is washed off
these grimy toilers are strangely pale, for
there is assuredly more night in their lives
than in most human pilgrimages.

By the time that Mistley had reached
the plain, the glow of coming sunrise was
over the sea. All nature was awakening to
the fact that another day was at hand. In

the trees and low hedges the birds were
twittering tentatively and low, like an
orchestra tuning up. Doubtless they were
clearing their little pipes (for the east wind
from the North Sea makes all throats gruff)
in order that their Maker should be praised
with clear and ringing notes.

Presently the sun raised one merry beaming
eye over the line of the horizon, calling
all the world to laugh and rejoice in that he
had come again. Across the placid sea shot
he one golden shaft of light which lay
lovingly on the broad yellow sands, where
the hardy Vikings had of old hauled up
their marauding war-ships.

And now the young traveller spoke
cheerily to Fairy, and bade her be glad
that her work was more than half accomplished.


Already the trees looked happier by
reason of a more lusty growth generated by
kindly companionship.

^5—2

Gosport was awake as Fairy threw up
the black dust of the road. Every cottage
chimney was smoking with a promise of
housewifely preparations for the weary night-shift
men, even now coming up from the
bowels of the earth with dazzled eyes,
and a wondrous great appetite for breakfast.


To the southward the whole atmosphere
was darkened with the heavy poison of
strange-smelling smokes, rising sullenly from
the banks of the busy Tyne. Tall chimneys
broke the line of distant hill, and below, in a
dull blue haze, lay the much-tried city of
Newcastle.

Within this impure haze of smoke and
night-damp was a whole arnry of chimneys,
tall and short, dimly discernible like soldiers
on a battle-field when the smoke lies
low.

Respectable Esmond was asleep when
Fairy clattered through ; Northumberland

Street, now gradually launching into retail
commerce, likewise. In Grey Street, a
solitary policeman gazed sleepily at the
solitary horseman, and thought of some poor
doctor who was doubtless about to be called
from his warm bed.

Then horse and rider parted company
with mutual esteem warming either heart ;
for Fairy loved a gentle hand and a kindly
voice, and was justly proud of the white
lather near her girths.

Twenty minutes did Mistley devote to
her welfare — for the ostler was sleepy, and
rubbed with little vigour — and ten to his
own, beginning a new day, as he had begun
many, with no other mark between it and
the previous day's work than a good splash
in icy water.

The train was poorly filled, folks over the
border being marvellously careful of their
own comfort, and there was little difficulty
in securing an empty carriage.

Adonis gravely seated himself opposite
his master, and waited like a well-behaved
dog till he was spoken to.

This happened very soon after the rumble
of the huge High-Level Bridge was left
behind.

1 Adonis !' said Winyard, with great
gravity, ' has it ever occurred to you to find
out that you were not so clever as you
thought yourself? I have just made that
discovery, old fellow, and it is not pleasant.
I thought that I had my feelings and inclinations
under perfect control. I imagined
that the world was an oyster, which would
spring open at the first touch of my sword.
But I was a fool, Adonis — a blind fool.
Yes ; that is right — grin and wag your tail ;
pretend you know all about it, when you
don't. I do not understand it myself; but
there is something wrong, Adonis, my boy
. . something wrong, and somehow . . .

I think things will never be quite the same
again.'

Before the train glided slowly into Durham
Station, master and dog were sleeping
the sleep of the weary.

HE rays of the setting sun, piercing
the frosty air, gleamed luridly on
every dome and minaret of grand
old ' Mother ' Moscow. The bell suspended
in the white tower of Ivan Veliki was thrilling
the entire city, far beyond the Kremlin
gates, with its deep continuous voice. There
was no sound of metallic concussion, but one
great unbroken hum vibrated over all, like
the buzz of some huge-winged insect. It

© ©

was a feast-day, and the Metropolitan was
about to bless the people from the jewelled
altar-steps of the cathedral. Prince and
pauper, soldier and insolent official passed

beneath the red arch of the Holy Gate
together, hurrying towards the already overfilled
cathedral. Passing into the shadow
of the sacred portal, each bared his head
and humbly carried his hat in both hands
until he was through the arch, for this token
of respect must be paid by infidel and
Christian alike. High up in the crumbling
brickwork hung the holy picture, from
whence the Saviour's mild and loving eyes
gazed down upon the ignorant multitude.

The shop-keepers in the Slavonski Bazaar
were busy closing their little narrow booths,
knowing that their commerce was finished
for the day.

From one of the arcaded passages there
emerged an old man, bent and limping. He
was clad in a long garment confined at the
waist by an old leather strap. His high
boots, reaching almost to the knee, were
innocent alike of grease or blacking. On
his head was a black astrakhan cap, all glossy

with newness, and in his hand he carried five
or six more. This type is common enough
in Moscow — the man was an itinerant vendor
of astrakhan caps, and, like the rest of his
kind, was quite ready to take that from his
head to offer to any would-be purchaser.

As he came out of the Slavonski Bazaar,
he turned his head as if a dog should have
been at his heels ; then beneath his shaggy
curls of grizzling brown he smiled a little
grimly.

Painfully he made his way across the
broad market-place, not in the direction of
the Holy Gate, but towards the marvellous
Basil.

Opposite this, the most lovely building ever
erected to the glory of God by a man who
knew not His love, the old hat-seller stood
and gazed. For greater convenience he laid
his cone of fur-caps upon one arm, and raised
his two hands to the crook of his staff.

The eyes that rested on the glorious curve

of varying cupola and minaret were strangely
youthful and penetrating. Admiration for
this triumph of Eastern architecture was
expressed therein, but wonder there was not.
It was as if the old man knew every line and
turn, and was now gazing on them as one
who bids farewell.

The sharp concise tread of an officious
police agent sounded on the stones behind
the old fellow ; but he never turned or
heeded it.

He seemed lost in a reverie, wherein
perhaps figured the grim personality of Ivan
the Terrible, who had caused this same Basil
to be built ; and then, when it was finished,
seeing, despite his coarse and barbarous
nature, that it was almost superhuman, had
blinded for ever its nameless architect. But
what should an old hat-seller know of these
things ?

Thou wilt sell no caps here,' said the
obtuse police-spy at his elbow.

1 No V answered the old man quietly, without
looking round.

No ; go on, one way or the other.'

1 Then in Moscow one may not even look
at a church ?' said the old man, turning to go.

No. I turned away an Englishman from
here yesterday ; and if an Englishman (for
they see everything) may not look, surely
thou may est not.'

1 Same fellow, my man. Same fellow, you
thickhead !' muttered the old man in perfect
English, as he hobbled towards the Holy
Gate.

In passing through he reverently bared
his head, looking sideways up with senile
awe towards the sacred picture.

He shambled past the gates of the Imperial
Palace, and stood for some moments beside
the great bell, resting on its pedestal at the
foot of Ivan's Tower, silent for ever with a
crack from base to summit.

The great bell overhead had ceased ringing,

but the air was still vibrating with a
dull thrill of dying harmony.

The people were still thronging past with
stupid awe-struck faces, crossing themselves
occasionally as they passed a shrine built
into the wall, with a fervour which was
piteously blind and ignorant. For religion
here is conducted on the same principles as
the enforcement of the law.

The old man looked at them w T with a strange
quizzical philosophy, and from their dense
and ignorant faces, rendered miserable by
many generations of utter poverty and oppression,
he raised his eyes to the gorgeous
Imperial Palace behind them.

Then he shook his head, which showed
a palsied readiness for such exercise, and
wandered back past the brilliantly-painted
railings and black-and-white-striped sentry-boxes,
under the holy gateway into the vast
market-place.

He ignored the officious limb of civic law,

who, however, kept a stern eye fixed upon
him ; and, skirting the Slavonski Bazaar, the
old hat-seller passed out of the Kremlin.

He quickened his shambling pace, but
stopped suddenly in one of the narrower
streets of New Moscow. A blue letter-box
was fixed to the wall, and upon this he laid
his stock of fur caps, separating them and
shaking out the little black curls of hair with
a practised hand. He arranged and sorted
his diminutive stock in trade for some time,
till the street was clear of passers-by. Then
he slipped one hand into the breast of his
long coat, and produced a letter. After
glancing at the address he dropped it into
the box, and murmured in English :

1 There goes the last link ! I am off at
last, and a week ago to-day I was putting
up scenery at Broomhaugh !'

When the Post-office collector came,
shortly afterwards, with his bag to clear the
box, the old hat-seller was still examining

his wares, one of which he pressed upon the
letter-carrier with a little clumsy pleasantry
about the cap coining in useful when he received
his pension. The old fellow spoke
the guttural coarse Russian of the South.

Beneath his shaggy brows he watched his
letter fall from the box into the canvas bag,
and then turned away towards the high-road
leading to Nijni Novgorod.

Thus Winyard Mistley turned his back on
civilization, and started on his lone and
wearisome journey of three thousand miles.
The hurried leave-taking at the porch had
been indeed a farewell, despite his cheery
assurance to the contrary. Twenty-four
hours after leaving Broomhaugh, he was onboard
a little merchant steamer gliding slowly
down the Humber. An interview at Whitehall,
a second at the War Office, and he had
received his instructions. No outfit, no
letters of introduction, no bawasfe. ' Was
there anything to delay his starting immediately

?' he had been asked. ' No — nothing !'
The answer was not very prompt — there
was the shadow of hesitation in it ; and for a
moment, the white-haired anxious soldier who
had asked the question relaxed the coldness
of his official demeanour.

It is sometimes better,' the old worn-out
traveller said, ' to find that there is no
time to say good-bye — do you not find it
so V

Yes — 2 Derna P s it i s better so,' Winyard
had replied with a sudden smile, and all was
said and done.

And now that was all over — a mere
memory of the past. The hurried preparations,
the difficult letter to Mrs. Mistley,
written at a club amidst the laughter and
merry-making of men who would have been
silent enough had they known. The uncomfortable
farewell at Kind's Cross Station,
and the last grave pressure of the hand from
the two old travellers, who, partial strangers

as they were, had made a point of seeing
him off.

Now he was fairly at work, and his old
confident delight in the attendant difficulties
was returning to him. In the midst of
enemies he calmly defied them all, meeting
treachery with an apparently rash straightforwardness,
pitting against their suspicious
watchfulness a keen and educated discernment
which was infinitely superior. Alone,
unrecognised by his country, and unprotected
by her avowed interest, he set forth
into those weird untrodden deserts of the
far East, where untrustworthy fanatics are
restlessly scheming with and against the unscrupulous
envoys of Russia ; where treason
and falsehood are in the very air, and where
truth forms no part or portion of manly
honour.

Leaving behind him home, moderate
wealth, and perhaps love, he was facing discomfort,
deprivation, and the probability of

vol. ii. 26

a lonely miserable death. It is a hopeless
task to seek for human motives. Who can
say why thousands of Englishmen deliberately
choose a wandering life, when ease and comfort
are within their reach ? It cannot be
said that ambition alone drove Winyard
Mistley to take this journey, for he was
fully aware that no public reward can be
assigned for private service, in a country
governed by the Press. He knew well the
dangers that lay ahead, first in the semi-barbarous
and wholly tyrannical country
through which he was passing ; and beyond,
dangers of desert and rapid rivers, of burning
sun and ice-cold nights, of ruthless
nomads and treacherous schemers.

It was a match between educated cunning
and ignorant, but the latter had the advantage
of numbers.

What drove this refined Englishman to
face the innumerable terrors and hardships
of a journey in the untrodden East ? Patriotism.

For patriotism is not dead, let cynics
write what they like.

Winyard Mistley did not hesitate to risk
his life on a journey to that unsettled land
where, one day, will be fought the greatest
fight the earth has ever quivered under ;
where the Lion and the Tiger (dogged
bravery and cunning courage) will stand side
by side to repel the encroachments of the
shambling Bear. And then will be seen to
rise from the ashes of Ease and Indifference
a very phoenix of Patriotism.

This is essentially an age of words ; weare
a verbose generation, loving to sit at a
table with closed window and crackling fire,
and there to write on any subject that comes
to the fore — of distant lands which we hardly
know by name ; of peoples whom we have
never seen, whose tastes and habits are strange
to us — but action is not yet dead amongst
us, as England will find when her hour of
need has come.

26—2

There is a very present satisfaction in
serving one's country with rifle on shoulder,
beneath the shadow of a fluttering standard,
to the sound of martial music. The cheers
of the excited populace, the roll of the drum,
and that terribly fascinating ' true — true ' of
a thousand trained feet, send a man forth to
fight for his fatherland with a glowing heart.
He feels that death is not so terrible after
all with these red-coats around him, with
the inspiration of patriotic music throbbing
through his brain.

Winyard Mistley had none of these.
Surely his was a higher standard of courage
than that of the trained soldier. He followed
no chief; he was not forced on by
men who depended on his leadership. No
1 pomp and circumstance of war ' was his, no
cheering populace, no trusty comrade.
Neither was his duty comprised in a blind
obedience to superior orders, which if it
may be somewhat galling to one man out

of five, is an intense relief to the other
four.

Despite what he said to Marie Bakovitch,
it was no hatred towards Russia that impelled
him to devote his life to the study of
her crooked politics. He was too much of
a cosmopolitan to be influenced by such
ignorant and insular prejudices as affect the
ruck of intra veiled and unread Englishmen.
It is strange, in this enlightened nineteenth
century, how many of our countrymen
honestly believe that there is no land in the
world equal to England, no soldiers equal to
ours, no intellects so lofty as ours, no literature
except ours. And these, also, men of
education and some slight reading, though
the latter has necessarily been confined to
the writings of other Englishmen.

This curse of ' insulation ' militates against
England throughout the whole world, and
will one day fall back upon our own heads
in such a manner as to cause a very rude

awakening. Then, perhaps, it will be seen
that the teaching of effete and bygone tongues,
which we persist in considering more beautiful
than those that have superseded themis
a mere folly. Then the fathers of sons
will perhaps conceive the brilliant idea that
because they know enough Latin to understand
in some degree the maudlin prosing
of fifteen hundred years ago, it is no reason
why their sons should not be allowed to
enter into the cultivated thoughts of modern
writers, who (to their own detriment, no
doubt) write in language only fit for Frenchmen,
Germans, or Italians to read.

Travel is doing much for us, there is no
doubt ; and already there are glimmerings of
light entering the brains of the more liberal
portion of the rising generation. Already
these are beginning to realize that this planet
does not consist of England, with a few partially
necessary countries existing around herby
her kind permission and endurance.

Winyard Mistley was neither blinded by
national pride into a mistaken and vainglorious
confidence, nor subject to the pusillanimous
misgivings of a mere alarmist. He
looked at the entire question with the impartial
eye of an outsider, having learnt from
his many wanderings abroad to forget that
he himself was an Englishman when judging
of English affairs. No man could give fuller
justice to Russia than he, and no man knew
better the restless nature of the half-civilized
men whom a sudden freak of fortune had
raised to a position of power in the far Southeast.
For this reason he was feared and
respected by them more, perhaps, than any
member of the British Government. His
strict honesty, combined with a certain blunt
way of suddenly exposing to public ridicule
unscrupulous schemes, which they thought
to be unknown, was particularly repugnant
to their overweening pride.

Only a fortnight had elapsed since
Winyard Mistley's departure from
Broomhaugh, and Colonel Wright
was already beginning to experience some
anxiety at the absence of news from him.
The old soldier, too impulsive for a diplomate,
grumbled aloud at the prolonged
silence of his pupil. He knew that there
must be good reason for it ; but felt at the
same time that he, of all people, might reasonably
expect to be kept fully posted as to
Winyard's movements.

Lena, whose spirits were singularly high
(in an unusual jerky manner), watched her

father in his anxiety, wondering whether
there were any real cause for it ; and Mrs.
Wright, for reasons best known to her own
maternal heart, watched Lena.

On the fifteenth morning the tardy letter
arrived at last, having been forwarded by
Mrs. Mistley from Paris. The Colonel read
it slowly, for it was written in pencil on the
torn-out page of a sketch-book. Then he
turned the paper over again, and read it
aloud :

Dear Colonel,

I leave Moscow this afternoon,
walking to the first station on the Nijni
line. I am fairly off now — right in the heart
of the country, and no one the wiser. Give
me twelve months before you think of getting
anxious, eighteen before you show your
anxiety, and twenty-one before you send
Wilson and Bates. Let them come unknown
to the newspapers. If either of them be
unable to come (I do not anticipate unwillingness),

some one else must. Do not
on any account send one man alone. If I
should not get back, and Wilson fails to
hear of me, shed a friendly tear, but shed it
in private ; our white-coated friends must
not hear of it. By-the-bye, on second
thoughts, please tell your ladies and the
mater all about Marie Bakovitch. It will
be safer. Do not lose sight of the mater,
and take care of the respectable Adonis.

Yours,

W. M.'

The Colonel's voice quivered a little as he
finished reading.

Lena, slowly sipping her coffee, looked
over her cup towards her father, with an
interested but somewhat critical expression
on her face.

It is to be hoped,' she said, ' that " the
respectable Adonis " will appreciate the interest
shown in his welfare.'

Ye-es,' said the Colonel vaguely, as he

slowly folded the letter. ' There !' he continued
more energetically, as he placed it in
his pocket — ' you know as much as I do !'

Mrs. Wright slowly raised her eyes from
her plate, and looked across the table towards
her husband.

1 Except . . .' she said suggestively, ' . . .
in the matter of Marie . . . something or
other.'

Marie Bakovitch . . . yes, I must tell
you about her. It would interest you, I
think.'

Lena was still sipping her coffee indifferently.


Marie Bakovitch,' continued the Colonel
deliberately, ' is a young lady, beautiful and
. . accomplished. Two years ago she undertook
to remove me from the face of the earth.
She is what is called in some countries a
patriot, and that is the form taken by her
patriotism. Of course she belongs to several
crack-brained societies and one of these was

kind enough to inform me by letter that I
was condemned ; at the same time warning
Mistley. He had the effrontery to reply to
their formal communication, but I did not
see the letter. Since then I have heard
nothing more about it. Some time later
Mistley received a threatening letter, and
since then this girl has followed him like a
shadow . . .'

Lena slowly set her cup down upon the
table. With one white finger she began
polishing the top of the silver coffee-pot
with peculiar attention, like a child who is
being gently scolded.

By some means,' continued the Colonel,
he turned the wrath of these mistaken
patriots from my head, and called it down
upon his own. Marie Bakovitch followed
him to Walso, and actually attempted to
shoot him, down at the Broomwater one
day when he was fishing. She missed him,
and then fainted into his arms — in the most

confiding manner, Winyard said. The fellow
managed to make even that into a funny
story. He generously kept the whole affair
quiet, and succeeded in getting the girl away
from Walso. She even promised to leave
England, but whether she will keep her
promise or not, I cannot say. He was afraid
that they might have been seen together,
and that gossip would get about, so he asked
me to tell you the truth about it.'

The two ladies were silent. Lena bent
her head over the coffee-pot as if she were
short-sighted, and wished to see the result
of her prolonged polishing. It was only
when he looked across the table and met his
wife's eyes that Colonel Wright fully realized
what Winyard Mistley had done in taking
this danger upon himself.

And you knew this all along,' said Mrs.
Wright presently, with gentle severity. She
was recalling, with the unerring memory of a
woman for such details, the thousand passing

incidents in which Winyard Mistley and his
chief might have betrayed their anxiety concerning
Marie Bakovitch and her presence in
Walso.

Women usually consider that they have
the monopoly of the minute diplomacy of
everyday life. They love to comment on
the clumsiness and want of tact with which
they are pleased to endow their husbands,
brothers, and sons ; and when a revelation
comes to them, as it had now come to Mrs.
Wright, the result is a trifle humiliating.
Most women learn sooner or later in their
lives that the men whom they pride themselves
upon blindly leading, allow themselves
to be led just so far as suits them, and not
one inch beyond.

Lena must have been thinking of this also,
for presently, without looking up, she said :

I cannot understand it at all. If I had
a secret like that upon my mind, I should
be miserable. I should not be able to think

of or take an interest in anything else ;
whereas you and . . . Winyard . . . were as
innocent as lambs. You took an interest in
the theatricals, in the trivial details of everyday
existence . it makes one feel like a
child to whom the nurse talks upon topics
likely to amuse, and never thinks of what
she is saying.'

Before Colonel Wright had time to reply,
the door was thrown open by the square -
shouldered butler, and Laurance Lowe
entered the room, closely followed by Charles
Mistley.

We met on the doorstep,' said the younger
man ; while his companion silently shook
hands with Colonel and Mrs. Wright, and
kissed Lena.

Early visit,' added Laurance Lowe, byway
of apology.

1 I am glad you have come,' said the
Colonel genially. ' I have heard from Win-yard
at last !'

Then he rose and handed the letter to
Charlie. The young sailor took the paper,
and walked to the window.

Excuse me he said, with a grave smile
towards Mrs. Wright before he unfolded it.
Leaning against the woodwork of the window
he read the letter through, slowly and deliberately.
Then he came forward and gave
it back to the Colonel, with a word of thanks.

Before handing it to Laurance Lowe, the
old soldier unfolded the paper and examined
it critically ; then looking up suddenly at
Charlie, he said :

It is such men as this who leave their
mark upon a generation !'

Charlie smiled in his lazy, grave way.

Yes,' he replied ; ' the energetic ones.'

Laurance Lowe was holding out his hand
for the letter, patiently and without any
show of curiosity. As previously hinted, he
was essentially an unemotional being, never
displaying curiosity or surprise.

• Colonel said Charlie, ' I have brought
you the new sheet map I promised to procure
you. It is a large affair, so I gave it
to Jarvis to take into your study.'

Thanks — many thanks !'

And,' continued the young sailor, ' and
I have come to say good-bye.'

Laurance Lowe slowly raised his eyes.
They rested on Charles Mistley long enough
to notice that the young fellow carefully
avoided meeting Lena's quick glance, and
instantly turned away again.

Good-bye !' echoed Lena. ' Surely you
are not going away now ?'

Yes,' replied Charlie quietly. ' I have
been appointed to the Curlew, on the Mediterranean
station.'

Mrs. Wright had risen, and was standing
at the window with her back towards them.
She turned her head.

1 1 shall be very sorry to lose you, Charlie,'
she said softly.

vol. 11. 27

Lena said nothing. She was engaged in
administering small pieces of toast to Adonis.
She could not be expected to express surprise,
as Charles Mistley had foreseen this appointment,
and had spoken of it frequently.

Presently the gentlemen adjourned to the
study to smoke cigarettes and inspect the
new map. When it was spread out on the
table, the Colonel took a pen and made a
little cross over the word ' Moscow writing
underneath it the date of Winyard Mistley' s
letter. With dotted lines he followed the
track of the railway to Nijni Novgorod ;
then turning south, traced the broad flow of
the Volga. Carefully he portioned off each
day with a line drawn horizontally.

As the mariner traces his course upon the
chart, so Colonel Wright continued, in the
months that followed, to make this imaginary
track across Russia. Down the Volga to
Astrakhan, by road from Astrakhan to
Petrovsk, and from thence across the Caspian

Sea to Krasnovodsk. Each day's
journey was portioned off scientifically, each
day the little dotted line advanced farther
into the unknown East.

The old traveller never spoke much to his
wife or daughter concerning this map, doubtless
considering it a detail of his profession
necessarily of small interest to ladies. He
was not aware that day by day a fair young
face was bent over the gray paper, and a
dainty finger followed with absorbing interest
the growth of the black line.

27—2

HE weeks passed slowly on. Autumn
blustered out, and winter
stole in with a keen black frost
that enveloped London in fog and darkness.
The muddy streets were dangerous, the air
pestilential ; and yet people lived on merrily
enough, performing their daily tasks, extracting
their daily enjoyment from existence.


At Broomhaugh it was a very different
matter. A great and wondrous silence
reigned there — even the voice of the Broom-water
was checked. The huge brown
boulders grew hoary with long ice-beards,

and as the water fell clay by day, little platforms
of ice stood out from stone and bank.
Then came a great fall of snow, and the
dark pine-trees were at rest. They could
not sigh and moan at the passage of every
biting breeze beneath this real and tangible
burden of chilly white, for pine-trees are like
men who make a great moan when things
are passable, but bear with manfully closed
lips the weight of a real sorrow. In the
pine-woods, however, as in the world, a sharp
crack sometimes rings out, followed by a
sickening rustle of falling strength, and the
older trees hug their close-knit bark, gently
whispering to each other that such and such
a sapling has given in at last. But Broom -
haugh was deserted ; the old gray house was
silent, and the snow lay in virgin purity
over all the land.

Through that long winter Lena was her
father's constant companion. Indeed, the
family of three wondered then how they had

been able to manage life so well apart when
the Colonel was away. The old soldier was
very busy with both official and private
writings, and in Lena he found a bright and
intelligent assistant. Article after article
flowed from his pen, and in review and
magazine the weight of his experience soon
found appreciation.

Also, there was much reading to be done.
As an old sailor loves to hear about the
great waters in quaint sea-sounding words,
so the traveller loves to follow the wanderings
of others ' when travelling-days are
done.'

During those darksome months Lena grew
very wise in Eastern lore. The Colonel's
map was now common property, and his
daughter openly displayed her interest in
the ever-lengthening dotted line. Sometimes,
even, she was consulted as to the
journey to be adjudged. Thus, in the quiet
study, father and daughter travelled Eastward

together, by piteous little stages of
one-eighth of an inch or so per diem, till at
length the end of the black line touched the
B of Bokhara ; and the Colonel talked of
gilded domes and minarets, of crumbling
walls and narrow gateways built of the little
flat bricks manufactured of old — ' without
straw.'

Now this was all very fine and exceedingly
pleasant — this prosperous journey devoid of
hardship and danger — to be taken up after
a good night's rest in a warm bed, followed
by an honest English breakfast ; but there
came no news of the real traveller, who had
become, as it were, a tiny insect crawling
over the vast map.

Lena, from her reading, knew that there
are occasional opportunities, even in the
farthest desert, of sending back a few words
by some return caravan or party of travellers ;
but no sign came from Winyard Mistley.
Since the letter from Moscow his silence had

been as that of one who is in the grave. At
times this imaginary journey seemed to Lena
to be nothing else than a pitiful farce ; but
she could not make up her mind to mention
this thought to her father, who showed no
anxiety.

The Colonel was well aware that some
news should by this time have reached
England ; but his simple trust in Mistley's
powers was very great.

If any man can do it, Mistley can P he
had said vaguely, one day when the soft
dampness of the atmosphere seemed to speak
of coming spring. This was no reply to
some remark of Lena's, but merely in answer
to his own thoughts. The Colonel
was leaning against the mantelpiece gazing
dreamily at his own boots, while Lena stood
with her back towards him, bending over the
map. She waited for more, but her father
remained silent.

The summer brought an event in Lena's

life of some importance. This came in the
shape and form of a young gentleman named
Walter Haughton, who had been her playmate
in former years. But the playmate
and the young man were two very different
beings. There was nothing to be quoted
against Walter Haughton — his manners were
perfect, if somewhat too self-possessed — his
appearance decidedly in his favour ; but he
invariably inspired a sudden distrust in the
minds of experienced men and women of the
world. The former called him a ' bad egg ;
the latter said he was a rolling - stone.
Young ladies who aspired to ' fastness ' considered
him great fun, and no two young men
had the same opinion regarding him. When
he presented himself at Seymour Street and
talked of old times, throwing in a few sincere
words of tribute to the memory of his mother,
who had been a friend of Mrs. Wright's, he
was received with much kindness. Certain
rumours of wild doings were kindly forgotten

by Mrs. Wright, and the new page was universally
looked upon as spotless. Indeed,
Walter Haughton now set up his stall in
Vanity Fair as an irreproachable young man,
and did very well. This took place early in
the summer, and the new venture proved so
successful that Haughton honestly determined
to adopt for the future the paths of
virtue. Mrs. Wright did her very best to
aid him in this. She introduced him to her
friends, took him out to houses where young
men were required, and to his credit it maybe
recorded that she never had cause to regret
having done so.

When, however, Haughton's visits to
Seymour Street became monotonous in their
regularity, and when he appeared at every
ball, reception, or soiree, Mrs. Wright began
to experience misgivings. The ' prodigal,'
as she was pleased to call him, did not
assuredly come to see her ; it must therefore
be Lena. However, for some reason

the good lady was less anxious now regarding
her daughter than she used to be. Also
the relationship between Haughton and
Lena seemed to make no progress — the
keenest-eyed old dowager could not have
detected anything more than mere friendship,
and that of the description generated
more by the force of circumstances than from
natural selection.

However, this young gentleman called one
July afternoon, and as soon as he entered
the room Mrs. Wright saw that there was
something different in his manner. His
usual and somewhat remarkable self-possession
was not there, and his blue eyes were
less shifty than of old ; but, on the other
hand, they were entirely devoid of a reckless
merriment which was not without its fascination.
Mrs. Wright was no mean scholar
at human nature's great academy ; she could
read faces as well as most people ; but Walter
Haughton's manner puzzled her that morning,

and continued to puzzle her until Lena
entered the room, and then the meaning of
it was clear.

Lena was dressed in readiness to go out.
She had made an appointment with some
girl-friends to meet at a picture-gallery,
which they were desirous of ' doing ' before
the fashionable hour. Walter Haughton
promptly proposed accompanying her as far
as the gallery, which she acceded to without
demur.

Mrs. Wright saw them to the door, which
she closed after them.

Poor prodigal !' she murmured to herself,
as she slowly mounted the stairs. ' Poor
. . prodigal ! he is as sure of his failure as
I am.'

Lena came home rather earlier than Mrs.
Wright had expected. The gallery had
certainly not been exhaustively inspected.
The good lady glanced up from her work fora
moment as her daughter entered the room,

but made no remark regarding her quick
return.

Lena walked to the window, and stood with
her back towards her mother, looking out
on to the dusty, sunlit street. She had not
removed her trim little hat, and the fingers
on the window were gloved.

Then Mrs. Wright laid aside her work,
and softly went to her daughter's side.

Mother,' said the girl wearily, without
looking round — ' mother, why is it that some
people's lives seem destined to be failures
from beginning to end ?'

Mrs. Wright slipped her arm round her
daughter, and they stood side by side, looking
vaguely into the street.

My darling,' she said presently, i I think
we are meant to shape our lives as unselfishly
as we can ; but . . . still . we should not
look too much on either side — there are so
many to assist that the sacrifice of ourselves
may be of little ultimate good.'

Walter — asked me to be his wife.'

Yes, darling.'

Do you think it would have been of any
good V

No, Lena ; I think it is best as it is.
Poor Walter ! luck does seem to be against
him . . . but he is young yet. People are
not unfortunate all their lives . . . unless
they have themselves to blame.'

The girl made no reply to this. Her confidence
in her own strength of mind had
been somewhat shaken that afternoon. Like
many a ne'er-do-well, Walter Haughton had
a most harmonious voice ; and never had its
tones been so pathetic, so musical, as they
had sounded in her ears an hour ago. She
actually shivered as she remembered how
near to hesitation she had been.

There is . . . Mr. Lowe,' she said suddenly,
but without evincing surprise ; and
with a little inclination of her head she indicated
the direction in which she was looking.

Beneath them, Laurance Lowe was crossing
the street. His active gait looked, even
more than usual, out of keeping with his
bent white head. A passing suggestion of
pain flickered across Mrs. Wright's face —
perhaps she was mentally withdrawing the
statement she had just made.

A few minutes later, Lowe entered the
room. He kissed Lena with a strange old-fashioned
respect, and turned to shake hands
with her mother, who had advanced to meet
him less hurriedly. As his hand met Mrs.
Wright's, he raised his shaggy brows, and
looked at her for a moment. There was
distinctly a question in his quiet eyes, and in
hers there was, as distinctly, an answer to it.

Any news ?' he had asked, and the reply
to it was :

No news.'

Each time these two met he asked that
same question, and hitherto that same anxious
answer had been given.

Rely in September, Mrs. Wright
received a letter from Gibraltar,
of which the address was in an
unknown handwriting. Charles Mistley's
letters had of late borne the Gibraltar postmark,
but this could not be from him. Before
she had read the first page, she exclaimed :
1 Charlie is coming home !'
Hooray !' said the Colonel.
Oh . I am so glad !' said Lena, with
more fervour than the occasion would appear
to demand. But Mrs. Wright looked grave.
He has broken his arm,' she said, and
then she suddenly laughed.

The letter, which was from an officer of
Charles Mistley's ship, was a very humorous
production, purporting to be written at
Charlie's dictation, but interlarded here and
there with observations from the writer's
own fertile brain. Although the news was
bad, it was so cheerfully imparted that the
bright side of it was alone presented.

At any rate,' said Lena, when the letter
had been read aloud, ' he is coming.'

Yes . he is coming,' replied her
mother thoughtfully, almost anxiously.

Charles Mistley had been the only member
of the little circle who had refused, persistently
and continually, to acknowledge any
feeling of anxiety at his brother's silence.
His letters, written in the Mediterranean,
seemed to have caught the sunshine and
joyousness of that favoured sea. No thought
of anxiety, no suspicion of doubt, was allowed
to find place in the closely written pages.
More than a year had elapsed since Win-vol.

11. 28

yard's departure, and the silence was yet
unbroken. War had at times appeared imminent,
and then from mere lack of interest
had lapsed into peace again. Great storms
had passed over the world — revolutions,
murders, and bloodshed — but Charles Mistley's
faith had never wavered. The black
fine on Colonel Wright's map had turned
back ; it had even regained civilization, and
yet no word was forthcoming. Despite this,
Charlie laughed at anxiety. Worst of all,
Winyard's name had gradually been dropped
from conversation at the house in Seymour
Street. The topic was tacitly avoided, as
we avoid the mention of those dear names
which gain no answer now.

It was to this that Charles Mistley was
coming home.

A few days after the arrival of the letter
he presented himself in Seymour Street.
Although he had given no notice of his
coming, he was fortunate enough to find

everyone at home. There was, however,
another visitor in the room when he arrived.
This was a brother officer of Colonel Wright's,
who had stopped his cab in passing through
Seymour Street to call and leave two brace
of partridges.

This old sportsman was holding forth
upon the details of his sport, when Charles
Mistley entered the room in his usual unobtrusive
manner, walking with a slow
strong step devoid of any littleness. The
greetings and introduction over, Charlie,
with true British instinct, displayed an immediate
interest in the partridges which
were lying on the hearthrug.

You have been shooting, sir,' he observed.

1 Yes ; but I secured a poor bag.'

Lena smiled openly.

That is a good bird continued Charlie,
in the same make-yourself-at-home tone of
voice, daintily holding up the largest partridge
by one leg.

28—2

'Yes,' replied the General, smiling vaguely.

I am afraid I am a poor sportsman,' continued
the big sailor, meditatively placing
his head on one side in order to examine the
bird more minutely. ' I could not stand a
keeper by my side ; and in the absence of
some one to keep me up to the mark, I
should probably sit down on the lee side of
a hedge and think the sunny hours away.'

His slow enunciation conveyed an impression
of pleasant laziness, such as one rarely
meets with in these hurried days. He
looked past the bird at Lena, and met her
eyes fixed full upon his face with a smile of
ill-disguised amusement. He quietly smiled
back, and proceeded to keep the ball of conversation
rolling, descanting with lazy gravity
upon the utmost trifles.

At last the old sportsman took his leave,
and the Colonel accompanied him to the
door. When the latter returned, the fact
had apparently slipped his memory that he

had shaken hands with Charlie before, for
he went through the ceremony again, taking
Charlie's left hand in his right somewhat
awkwardly.

How is the arm ?' he asked, glancing at
the sling, which the young sailor somehow
managed to wear so that it failed to attract
attention.

The arm is getting on splendidly, thank
you,' he replied, in rather a constrained
tone. The Colonel had left the door open,
and now the young sailor crossed the room
to close it. He stooped in order to see that
the bolt had acted properly, and then he
turned and faced Colonel Wright.

I have news,' he said quietly, ' of Win-yard.'


1 Ah !' exclaimed the old soldier, rising
from the seat he had just resumed. ' Tell
me all about it — news at last, thank God !'

'It is a long story,' began the other, in
his slow manner.

Then be quick with it interrupted Mrs.
Wright, with an impatient laugh. A little
catching ' sigh of relief came from Lena's
corner of the room.

Let us hear it all said the Colonel,
pointing to a chair.

But Charlie appeared to prefer standing.
He took his station at the corner of the
mantelpiece, and while he was speaking he
fidgeted with the ornaments there, taking
them up and setting them down again
one after the other. He told his story
with characteristic simplicity and shortness.


1 The day before yesterday he said, ' I
was at the club at Plymouth, reading a paper
or something, when a fellow came up and
said, " Commander Mistley," in a casual sort
of way, and held out his hand. I shook it,
and let him have it back ; and then he said,
I am Henry Akryl." I was none the wiser,
so I said " Yes " in a vague way . . .'

I know exactly how you said it,' interrupted
Lena, with a little laugh.

Well, it ultimately transpired that he
dined with us one day in the Persian Gulf.
He is an Eastern authority — writes books,
or reads inscriptions or something. Then he
told me his story. In January he was at
Kizil Arvatt. One day he was in the bazaar,
and, of course, was being pestered by the
scum of the place, who wanted him to buy
rubbish of every description. He is the sort
of man who never buys curiosities, and he
finally got rid of them all except one fellow,
who followed him most persistently even out
of the bazaar. He turned down a narrow
street where the grain-merchants have their
stalls ; but this fellow still followed him, and
kept thrusting his wares forward. His particular
line of business was old jewellery,
Moscow crosses, cheap bangles from Kieff,
and that sort of thing. He whined out a
prayer for charity in the most aggravating

manner, and once or twice Akryl struck his
hand aside. Suddenly, however, he ceased
whining, and said in perfect English, " Don't
look round — don't stop ; but listen to what
I tell you." Akryl seems to be a sharp
fellow, for he walked on without showing any
surprise. Then the jewellery-merchant went
on : " When you get back, go or Write to
Colonel William Forster Wright, 109, Sey-mour
Street, London. Remember the address.
You had better write it down when
you get back to the caravanserai. Dont
look round. Tell him you met an Englishman
in Central Asia — to-clay — that is all."
Akryl said, " Are you Mistley ?" and the
fellow replied, " Shut up." Akryl bought a
cross . . .'

Charlie stopped speaking. His thumb
was hooked into his waistcoat-pocket, as if
making sure that something was there. His
eyes were fixed on the hearth rug — a tiger-skin,
the stripes of which he was following

with the toe of his boot. Suddenly he raised
his lazy blue eyes, direct and with a certain
deliberation, from the floor to Lena's face.
He caught her eyes fixed wistfully on his
hand. Then he moved slightly, and addressed
Colonel Wright.

It sounds like Win, does it not V
i Yes,' replied the old traveller, slowly
pulling at his moustache. ' Yes — that was
Win.'

Akryl saw nothing but his hand,' continued
the sailor. ' A small brown hand he
said it was — almost the hand of a Tartar,
but somewhat stouter, with compact fingers
and light-coloured nails. I asked him for
further details, but that was all he could
tell me. He had landed in England two
days before I saw him, and was on the point
of starting off to join the Fez Expedition,
and was just going to sit down and write to
you when he caught sight of me and remembered
that I was . . . Win's brother.'

1 It is not much,' said Colonel Wright
slowly, ' but it explains a good deal. He
ought to have been across the Kizil Arvatt
desert before January. No doubt he has
had difficulties to contend with which we
did not quite foresee.'

The old soldier was no adept at dissimulation.
His manner implied disappointment,
and in each heart there was a vao-ue conviction
that this news was not satisfactory. It
was no explanation of the subsequent silence.

And now,' said Mrs. Wright, cleverly
breaking the uncomfortable silence, ' let us
hear about yourself. How did you break
your arm ? — what are you going to do with
yourself? — how long leave have you, etc.,
etc. ?'

O . . . h ! I suppose I shall moon
about, get up in the morning, go to bed at
night, and take my meals regularly.'

Which,' said Lena severely, ' is his definition
of a human existence. Charlie, you areas

bad as ever — as hopelessly lazy, as incorrigibly
unsatisfactory.'

Charlie bowed with grave mockery.

No,' said Colonel Wright, who was a
wonderfully reliable judge of men. ' No ;
he is not that. He is simply a humbug ;
he is pleased to assume laziness because it
pays. He dawdles his life away because he
is a philosopher. There are few books he
has not read — few subjects upon which he
could not tell us something ; but he prefers
to sit idly by and listen to a futile discussion
when a few words from him would settle it
at once. He is a shop-keeper who stores his
best wares beneath the counter, and leaves
the window empty.'

Charles Mistley met this accusation with
a mellow laugh, in which the ladies joined.

I begin to regret,' he said, ' that I ever
left the Curlew, for I was treated onboard
with the respect due to the gold lace
upon my sleeve ; but still, if anyone else

wishes to add a few remarks, now is the time.
I have no friends, I have not even the
protection of a mother's love, as that respected
lady does not arrive from France till
tomorrow ! I have just taken chambers
for her and myself in Bedford Place !'

Bedford Place — again !' exclaimed Mrs.
Wright.

Yes, Bedford Place again,' he replied. ' I
think the mater likes the busy rattle of the
cabs.'

What leave have you ?' asked Colonel
Wright.

Four months, Colonel. Four months,
with the probability of an extension to six,
according to the doctor's report.'

You have not told us how it happened,'
said Lena.

Carelessness,' replied the young fellow,
with a shrug of the shoulders.

On your part ?'

1 No, on the part of some one else. A man

was lowering a boat, and the rope slipped — a
thing that might happen at any moment.
The boat was full of men, who would have
been shot into the water if two of us had
not stopped it.'

Who was the other ?' asked the Colonel.

The man who wrote home for me.'

I thought there was something in that
fellow, despite his foolery !' said the old
soldier thoughtfully.

When Charles Mistley left the house
shortly afterwards, there was in his mind a
vaofue half-formed sense of misedviner. It
was almost a prescience of coming evil. Lena
was different ; there was something in her
manner which had no sympathy with the
Lena of olden days. His memory went
back to the time when she, little else than a
child, had been pleased to make him her
friend, her confidant, almost her brother ;
when he had laughingly taught her to dance,
and had skilfully guided her through the

little ball-room dangers that surround a
lovely girl in her early youth. All this he
thought of, and followed through it the
natural growth and development of her
mind — making every allowance for outward
influence, giving full credit to maternal care.
Although his mode of life had not afforded
much opportunity for the study of such
matters, the young sailor knew that there is
no change so great in the nature of human
beings as that which may, and often does,
come to a girl between the ages of seventeen
and twenty-four. It is during that period
that all the infinite possibilities of good, all
the chances of evil, are on the balance. In
those years a woman realizes the object of
her life, for it is then that love comes to her
love with its dazzling light of happiness,
too perfect for mortal realization or enjoyment.


If love had come to Lena, and Charles
Mistley thought it had, w T hat he saw was

not a direct result of its influence. There
was something else, something beyond his
powers to divine, and which he did not at
the moment attempt to define. From
whence the thought had come he could not
tell, what passing word or glance suggested
it he could not determine, but he only knew
that Lena was concealing something from
her mother. A change had come over the
understanding that existed between these
two. So slight was it and so intangible,
that if Charles Mistley had not been
much keener and much more observant than
he pretended to be, he would never have
detected it.

Then he began to wonder if any other
person had noticed it, and his thoughts
naturally turned to Laurance Lowe. If the
change was there, Laurance Lowe would
know something of it ; and from him information
was only to be extracted by a great
exercise of patience. So the young sailor

wandered on through the noisy, crowded
streets, puzzling his brain over the most
futile question man has ever set his mind
upon — the question of a woman's heart.

With the advent of October came a
succession of fogs. The atmosphere
of London was such as
only Londoners can breathe, yellow, noisome,
and choking. The Wrights had talked of
leaving town, and had even discussed the
question of going abroad, but they were still
in Seymour Street. The Colonel was busy,
and seemed singularly averse to leaving
town ; he was now getting seriously anxious
about Winyard Mistley. Political events
had occurred making it a matter of congratulation
to the English Cabinet that
they had a man of Mistley's discernment
vol. ii. 29

and well-known ability in Central Asia ; but,
at the Colonel's urgent request, his presence
there had been kept a secret. The information,
however, which he would undoubtedly
be able to supply was daily becoming of
greater necessity. Relating as it did to the
feeling of certain tribes, more especially of
the Saruks, respecting Russian aggression, it
was such as only an expert in Eastern matters
could supply. The Foreign Office authorities
were compelled to bear much abuse, and
to submit to unlimited badgering at the hands
of officious and scantily informed Members,
who took the opportunity of getting their
august names set up in type by taunting
the Ministers upon having no other sources
of information than those of such notable un-liability
as Russian official journals.

All this was of undoubted benefit to the
solitary wanderer, and while it demonstrated
to a nervous Cabinet the utter futility of
half-measures and unrecognised envoys, it

militated greatly in favour of Winyard Mistley,
whose devotion to the cause he had
espoused was so obviously disinterested.
But to Colonel Wright — to the man who,
despite his gray hairs, felt that his place
was not with the talkers who are left behind,
but with the workers who go afield
it was particularly galling and terribly
anxious work.

Instead of getting better, things grew
worse. Vague reports, originating sometimes
in Berlin, sometimes in St. Petersburg,
appeared from time to time in the
newspapers. These rumours spoke of trouble
on the Afghan and Persian frontiers, of
tribal disturbances and religious differences,
of boundaries overstepped and agreements
broken. Added to all this, Colonel Wright
received a blow from a nearer source, which
aggravated matters greatly, and rendered
Winyard Mistley's silence almost unbearable.


29—2

One morning, late in October, he was
sitting at his study-table. Before him lay
the large sheet-map which Charles Mistley
had brought more than a year ago. A fresh
route had been worked out across it with
dotted lines of red, commencing at Kizil
Arvatt on the day mentioned by the traveller
Henry Akryl. The Colonel had just completed
the dotted line as far as Bokhara,
and was looking, in an absently methodical
manner, at a calendar. The date written
above the word Bokhara was terribly far back
into the spring, more than six months ago.

The study-door opened softly, and although
the old soldier heard it he did not move or
turn. Two warm hands were laid upon his
shoulders with that marvellous touch of a
woman's loving fingers. They were peculiarly
steady hands, as white as Lena's, but firmer
and somewhat heavier.

Willy !'

Yes . . . old woman.'

Willy . . .' repeated Mrs. Wright, looking
out of the window into the hopeless
dreariness of the October morning, ' have
you noticed any . . . difference — any change
in Lena ?'

The Colonel raised his eyes from the map
and contemplated the chimneys of the opposite
house for some moments in silence.

A change . . . old woman,' he said slowly.
Perhaps there is a change — she is no longer
a child now.'

No, it is not that ; there is something
else. She never allows it to appear, but . . .
she is miserable. She is wearing herself to
death. We must go away from London.'

It must be confessed that Colonel Wright
had not given very much thought to the
subject of his daughter's happiness, nor was
he very clever at divining a motive.

Is it,' he asked, ' anything to do with
Charlie ?'

Mrs. Wright appeared to be buried in

thought. She uttered no reply, but leaning
forward over her husband's shoulder, she
placed her finger on the map, where the
red and black lines met beneath the word
Bokhara.

A pitiful silence followed, such as leaves
its mark upon the human heart.

Good God !' whispered the Colonel.

Mrs. Wright went towards the window.
The band that held back the folds of the
heavy curtain was twisted and somewhat out
of place. Slipping it off the hook, she deftly
put it right, and then she turned her face
slowly towards her husband.

Then you think . he has failed,' she
said in a monotonous voice.

The Colonel sat at the table with his chin
resting on his folded hands. He was staring
at the map.

We should have heard from him six
months ago,' was his reply.

Mrs. Wright crossed the room, and sat

clown on a low chair near the fire. For
nearly half an hour they remained thus. The
white-haired old warrior and his comely
gray-headed wife. After twenty-four years
of married life they were lovers still ; and as
they sat there — he looking out into the
yellow mist, she watching the changeful
flames as they leapt up and fell again — they
were recalling the weary years of waiting
that they had passed through, ignorant of
the love that lay hidden in either heart.
They were looking back to the first happy
days of their married life, days rendered
almost sacred by the touch of sorrow and
the ever-living joy of watching over Lena,
according all their parental love to the little
girl who only knew her elder brother by the
name that demanded a lowered voice.

With Lena,' said Mrs. Wright presently,
in a gentle voice, ' it will be the matter
of a lifetime . as indeed it is with most
girls.'

Are you sure . . . there is no mistake
about it V

1 Sure,' was the soft reply. ' We have
been able to watch over her — to keep sorrow
and sickness away from her, but this . . .
this love is beyond us, Willy. It is very
hard that love should bring sorrow with it
at once.'

Has Laurance Lowe said anything V
asked the Colonel.

He has said nothing — he never speaks
of that sort of thing, but he thinks the same
as . I do.'

< And— Charlie ?'

I cannot understand . . . Charlie,' replied
Mrs. Wright. ' His thoughts, his feelings,
and his motives are alike a mystery to me.'

The Colonel opened one of the drawers of
his writing-table, and taking Winyard's letter
from it, he spread the crumpled paper out
upon the face of the map, and studied the
writing, now growing dim and faded. The

formation of each letter was familiar to him ;
he knew the writing as he knew his own.

A thicker wave of foss came slowly over
the town, and the darkness lowered its veil
over everything like a short winter's twilight.
The printed names on the map were no
longer visible, and yet the Colonel sat and
gazed at it with Winyard's letter at his
side.

Presently the door opened, and with a
flood of warm light Lena entered.

1 I verily believe you were both sound
asleep f she exclaimed with a cheerfulness
which for some reason made her mother
wince. * Is it not dreadful — lamps at eleven
o'clock in the morning !'

MONTH had elapsed since Charles
Mistley's return, and as yet he
found himself no nearer an elucidation
of Lena's altered manner than he had
been on first discovering it. He had merely
confirmed his original conviction that such a
change existed. During those four weeks
he had been much in the society of Laurance
Lowe, as every frequenter of the Colonel's
house was forced to be, but from him no
information had transpired. True, they had
talked together very little, both being silent
men.

Laurance Lowe was not what the world is

pleased to call a hospitable man. This arose
less, perhaps, from that sense of economy
which is the result of a solitary existence,
than from mental laziness. If he could have
relied upon his guests to entertain each
other, and make free use of what was placed
before them, he would readily enough have
returned such hospitality as he received ; but
unfortunately his friends were not selected
from among people capable of that difficult
task. He would have been a generous man
had he not been handicapped by a deeply
planted aversion to thanks of any description.
His own gratitude had never been
known to express itself by more than the
simple words ' Thank you ;' and amidst a
shower of neatly turned phrases a hostess,
somehow, usually remembered those formal
words when others were forgotten. His
generosity flowed in one channel only. To
Lena, and to Lena alone, did he make
presents. She, with that sweet womanly

sympathy which was perhaps the most precious
inheritance received from her mother,
knew exactly how to thank her white-haired
admirer for these gifts. In many cases her
appreciation never showed itself in words at
all. A kiss, and a little touch of soft cool
fingers upon the back of his corded hand
that was all at the time. Later on she
would wear the gift, if it were jewellery — use
it, if it were not ornamental — at the proper
time and unostentatiously.

Charles Mistley was by no means ignorant
of these traits in the character of Laurance
Lowe, which the world naturally quoted
against him with infinite gusto ; and when,
therefore, he received a curtly worded invitation
to dine at a club, he knew that there
was some reason for it.

The meal was ludicrously characteristic
of the two men. No word was exchanged,
directly, between them. Occasionally a
mutual friend lounged up to their table with

a nod of recognition, and made a remark to
which both listened with grave attention,
Charlie replying to it, while Lowe silently
acquiesced. The old gentleman did not,
however, do badly as regards the dinner,
and the sailor did better — the waiter did
best, in the lift-cupboard. ' Lowe's dinner-party
' was a standing joke at that club for
some weeks afterwards.

After dinner they walked, by mutual and
tacit consent, to Lowe's chambers in Delphi
Terrace. Here they found coffee awaiting
them. The rooms were furnished with a
comfort somewhat rigid in its simplicity, buta
bright fire was burning in the grate, and
the warm lamplight softened down the barest
corners.

Charles Mistley knew that his companion
had something on his mind, but was content
to wait with a patience as enduring as that
of Lowe himself. Old barriers are hard to
break, the stones of an old wall are closely

knit. Laurance Lowe was endeavouring to
destroy a barrier which had grown harder
and tougher as the years followed on. He
made a little breach, but the barrier stood
as firm as ever ; when the moment came he
failed, and retired into his stronghold of
silence. He had fully intended to speak
openly for once, but the old habit of self-suppression
was too strong for him.

He motioned his guest to a seat, and drew
forward a low armchair for himself. Then
he pushed a box of cigars across the table,
so that Charlie could help himself without
moving. After they had been sitting for
some time, during which neither had commenced
to smoke, the host seemed suddenly
to recollect the coffee, for he rose, and with
slow, certain movements, entailing no unnecessary
clink or contact of china, he poured
out two cups of a fragrant brew, and set the
quaint old coffee-pot down before the fire to
keep warm. Lowe never smoked a manufactured

cigarette, and he now proceeded to
roll one, subsequently tucking in the stray
ends of tobacco carefully with the point of a
cedar-wood pencil.

He smoked meditatively for some moments,
then, without looking towards his
companion, he uttered the single word :

Lena !'

Charles Mistley examined his cigar critically,
and with much appreciation.

Ye-es,' he replied gravely.

Then Lowe made a herculean effort.

I think,' he said, ' there is something
wrong.'

The young sailor's calm eyes were resting
on his host's immovable face. He might as
well have attempted to read the features of
a sphinx.

I have noticed it,' he observed conversationally,
' ever since I came back.'

The ice was broken, the first word was
said, and now it surely was easy enough to

proceed. Only Englishmen could have failed
so lamentably to take advantage of the
situation. They actually continued smoking,
and presently Charlie took a sip of coffee,
which, slight though it may appear, as a
mere incident, was enough to make matters
worse.

1 Monsieur Jacobi . . .' said Lowe suddenly.
' Do you remember him V

Jacobi !' repeated the sailor thoughtfully.
1 Jacobi ! There was a fellow of that name
came one night to Mrs. Wright's about two
years ago.'

Lowe looked up. There was actually a ,
gleam of life beneath his eyebrows.

That is the man.'

I remember him. A slippery-looking
fellow — too sleek for my taste.'

Lowe nodded approval, and then said
quietly :

1 He is in it somewhere.'

Charlie, completely puzzled, awaited with

extraordinary patience till the peculiar old
gentleman should be pleased to vouchsafe
further information. At length, after carefully
depositing the ash of his cigarette in
the fire, Lowe spoke again :

He came that night . . . with the
Baroness de Nantille.'

Yes — I remember her.'

Lena is now having singing-lessons with
the Baroness.'

Charlie felt convinced that his host was
on the wrong track entirely, but refrained
from saying so.

But . . . Jacobi,' he began, ' is hardly
the sort of man . . .'

Lowe stopped him with a little ' sniff ' of
contempt and even derision, intended to convey
his opinion of Monsieur Jacobi.

I have watched,' said the old fellow,
and . I know Lena pretty well. You
will find that Jacobi is in it somewhere.'

But he never goes to Seymour Street !'

vol. ii. 30

<No.'

Does she meet him at other houses V

Lowe shook his head, and, leaning forward,
took his coffee-cup from the mantelpiece.
He emptied it at one long slow draught, and
proceeded to make himself a second cigarette.

The singing-lessons,' he observed suggestively.
After lighting the cigarette he
handed the match to Charlie, who had not
observed that he had allowed his cigar to
go out.

Then,' said the young sailor, slowly and
concisely, ' the Baroness is in it also ?'

Lowe nodded his head, and the ghost of
a smile flickered across his face.

That is how we will get at it,' he said.

Would it be of any use speaking to Lena
herself?' asked Charlie, who was a lover of
straightforward ways.

Lowe shrugged his shoulders, and continued
smoking meditatively.

Might try,' he muttered doubtfully.

At last Charlie lost patience. He threw
his cigar into the fire, and, rising from his
seat, he stood in front of his host with his
1 able ' arm resting on the mantelpiece.

I wish,' he said, without raising the
level tones of his voice, but speaking rather
hurriedly, ' that you would tell me what you
suspect, what you know, and what you wish
to know. If we are to help each other, there
must be no reticence between us. Of what
has been going on during the last year I
know absolutely nothing. Mrs. Wright's
letters have rarely alluded to . to Lena.
The Colonel never wrote, Lena herself —
rarely. My mother has been away in France.
You, and you alone, are the only source of
information that I have. I need hardly tell
you that I am as uneasy about this matter
as yourself. All I know is that Lena is
different — all I suspect is that her mother
is . . . no longer her confidante in everything.'
Laurance Lowe looked slowly up into his

30 — 2

companion s face, while the hand that held
the cigarette shook a little.

Seen that too ?' he said interrogatively.
All I know is that since she has been taking
these lessons there has been something wrong.
Before that she was anxious . . . about your
brother. We have all been anxious ; but
now it is something more than anxiety.'

And what do you suspect ?'

1 Seems to me that Jacobi has succeeded
in establishing some influence over her. The
girl is afraid of him.'

Lena goes to this woman's house for the
lessons V asked Charlie.

Yes.'

Could we not get that altered ?' suggested
the sailor, whose ideas were quick, though
his speech was slow.

1 Tried it.'

You have tried it ; and who objected V

Lena — piano or something.'

Did anyone make inquiries about the

Baroness de Nantille before this arrangement
was made V asked Charlie, who now turned
and resumed his seat.

Yes. She had a long" and severe illness.
Found, when she got better, that her property,
which was all in Russia, had been
confiscated, father banished, mother dead.
Reduced circumstances, took to giving .
She sings like an angel herself

And have you done anything about
Jacobi ?'

Lives by teaching violin — has many
foreign friends. Eminently respectable ; is
supposed to be connected with several foreign
political societies.'

Urn — m — m ! In fact, he is a shady
character,' suggested the sailor.

Damned swindler !'

They sat and talked in the same aggravating
' unfinished ' manner until late into
the night. As Lowe's theory gradually expanded
under Charles Mistley's patient investigation,

it assumed a greater appearance of
likelihood. Little details, added suggestively
here and there, spoke volumes for the keenness
of the old gentleman's powers of observation.


Silent men are not always mental sluggards,
and Laurance Lowe was far from
being such. He had gradually accumulated
evidence bit by bit, and therewith had built
up a very neat theory, surprising Charlie
with its accuracy and perfect sequence.

He argued that as Mrs. Wright was no
wiser than themselves on the subject of
Lena's mental trouble, it must consequently
be the result of some influence of which she
knew nothing. Such influence could only
be brought to bear upon Lena during her
visits to the house of the Baroness de Nan-title.
The deduction was ingenious, and
Charlie began to feel that Laurance Lowe's
theory was, after all, the right one.

I think you and I can settle Jacobi,' the

old man said, as he shook hands that night
with the young sailor.

It was not until some time later that
Charles Mistley recollected that there had
been no question of taking Mrs. Wright into
their confidence. He wondered at this a
little, and then, with characteristic laisser-aller,
came to the conclusion that Laurance
Lowe doubtless had his reasons for it.

GRIM silent desert — a great level
horizon, lifeless, waterless, hopeless.
The sun, a scorching ball
of fire, was now almost touching the unbroken
line of sand, and yet the heat he
gave forth was as strong, as parching, and
terribly merciless as that of the hottest
autumn noon in England.

It is easy to talk of desert and rolling
prairie, but to realize these from even the
most graphic description is impossible. To
sit by a comfortable fire with friends around
one, and to realize the awful loneliness of a
desert, is beyond the most far-reaching

imagination. The utter silence, the absence
of created life, the terrible monotony which
seems to speak of an unchangeableness extending
over centuries — all these combine to
act on the human brain as water acts upon
a stone. The continual succession of cloudless
mornings, cloudless noons, and cloudless
nights is maddening in its serene beauty.

Each scrubby bush becomes at last an
object of interest to the dazed traveller,
something to be seen ahead, to be attained
and left behind ; and yet when it is passed,
there is no change in the hopeless horizon.

Over the trackless plain, a traveller was
plodding painfully. One hand held the
bridle of a limping horse, and on the poor
brute's back was huddled a human form.
This sorry cavalcade was steering towards
the setting sun, a little to the northward
of it.

The man who led the horse was slightly
above the medium height ; a brown oval nice

all caked with sand and dirt ; his short
pointed beard was dull and dusty. The
huge turban on his head overshadowed the
upper part of his face, and from beneath its
shade there looked forth a pair of eyes dark
with sullen despair. For two months they
had looked upon nought but this same
hopeless waste of barren sand. His skin
was brown and hard like leather. Immediately
beneath his eyes on either cheek was
a red patch, where, the sand and dirt having
been washed away, the skin was of brilliant
red traversed by tiny cracks. These were
caused by the constant brushing away of
tears slowly drawn from his eyes by the irritation
of the finest grains of sand. His
slight moustache — brushed straight to either
side, after the manner of the Tartars — did
not hide his lips, which were almost black
and perfectly dry, like the skin of a dusty
raisin.

The man walked with the mechanical

swing of one who has been on the tramp for
many months, and to whom walking is
almost as easy as standing.

His foot-gear consisted of two pieces of
untanned leather tied roughly over either
instep; his wiry legs were bare, as he had
looped his garment of soft unbleached cotton
above his knees for greater convenience in
walking. His arms, exposed by wide short
sleeves, were brown and muscular ; indeed
there was no flesh upon them, merely corded
sinews.

As the sun touched the horizon he took
from the folds of his dress a small compass,
and noted the exact spot where the contact
took place. Then he glanced at his companion,
but made no remark.

The man on horseback was of slighter
build. He was all huddled up on the
saddle, while his chin literally rested on his
breast. His turban had come partly unrolled,
and the end of it hung down over

his face. Both hands grasped the high
pommel of the Tartar saddle ; his legs swung
helplessly with each movement of the
horse.

Since sunrise they had been on the marchand
the horse, a mere skeleton with flapping
ears and ungainly neck, showed fatigue
more than the man walking at its side.
Every now and then the poor brute stumbled
forward as if about to drop from sheer
weariness, and on each occasion the rider
would slightly raise his head. For some
hours perfect silence had fallen over the two
men — their blackened lips were so hard and
dry as to render articulation nearly impossible.


Suddenly the horse gave a great lurch
forward, and failing to recover himself, collapsed
sideways with a piteous groan.

The man at its head dropped the bridle,
and with marvellous rapidity slipped his arm
round his companion's drooping body.

Look out, Paul !' he exclaimed hoarsely
in Russian.

The rider made no attempt to assist himself,
and as the horse fell his full weight
came upon his companion, who, however,
managed to step back and keep free from
the poor brute's dying kicks.

The man on horseback had actually been
asleep, and as his companion laid him gently
on the warm sand he slowly opened his
heavy eyes.

Little father,' he murmured. The corners
of his mouth were closed with a deposit of
black sand, and his lips hardly moved. The
other put aside the loose end of the turban-cloth,
and exposed a fair boyish face with
languishing blue eyes, and a jaw so square
as to be almost a deformity. The sun had
burnt the fair skin in some places, leaving
others pale, the result being a fantastic
medley of browns, reels, and pinks.

• Paul !'

< Yes— little father !'

You are better for your sleep — is that
not so V asked the other kindly.

But the younger man lay still, with his
blue eyes half closed. His mouth was so
parched that he could scarcely move his
tongue.

We will divide what water there is left,'
said the elder man decisively. And he
turned towards the prostrate horse.

From the saddle he detached a large
gourd, which gave forth a terribly hollow
sound, and after some searching in a loose
bag that was suspended from his shoulder,
he found a small drinking vessel, cunningly
manufactured from half a gourd.

He kept his back carefully turned towards
his young companion as, kneeling on
the ground, he extracted the wooden stopper.

Then the younger man painfully turned
over on his face, and crawling along, he
stealthily approached. As his companion

elevated his arm to raise the gourd he
dragged himself forward, and watched the
yellow water trickle into the vessel with
eyes devoid of human feeling — they were
like the eyes of a wild beast in sight of
blood.

Slowly and deliberately the man poured
all the water into the little vessel — he
appeared to have forgotten the division of
which he had spoken.

In setting down the gourd he glanced to
one side, and caught sight of his companion
lying on the ground at his side, with agonized
eyes fixed upon the water vessel.

Then he turned, and for some seconds
their eyes met ; in one face was steady determination,
in the other a wavering weakness,
rendered terrible by the brute-like
agony of the eyes.

You drink your share first,' said the
younger man painfully.

I do not want any. I . . . am not

thirsty.' This with cracking lips and tongue
as dry as leather.

The younger man attempted to raise himself,
while the contortions of his discoloured
face were terrible to look upon.

1 You drink your share first !' he repeated
hoarsely.

Will you drink it all ?' The elder man
gently inclined the drinking-cup so that the
water glistened on the edge.

Will you drink it all ?' he repeated.

One precious drop fell on to the sand,
and the dampness of it vanished instantaneously.


< Will you drink . it . all ?'

Then he held the cup to his companion's
lips, and the water was gone.

He who did that deed to a dying man —
beneath no gaze but that of his God — was
Winyard Mistley. The young man was his
servant.

Now he sat upon the sand and took his

servant's head upon his knees. The water
loosened the man's tongue.

Little master,' he said presently.

Yes, Paul.'

I want you to promise something to a
dying man.'

Mistley made no answer ; he gently moved
Paul's head to a more comfortable position.

When I am dead,' said the youth, ' take
your knife and cut the flesh from off my
arm — you must do this — you must keep
yourself alive to get home to England, and
then you can tell them that Paul Mariti
did not die in vain ! You can tell the half-hearted
ones that a true Nihilist died in joy,
because he knew that his dead flesh was
destined to keep you alive. You, the enemy
of the Tyrant, the true friend of Holy
Russia !'

Mistley could not conceal the look of
horror that came into his eyes.

If,' he said, in his mumbling articulation,

vol. 11. 31

1 I went home and told them that tale, every
Englishman would turn away from me in
horror, saying that it would have been a
hundred times better to have left my bones
to bleach in the Khiva desert.'

The young Russian was half insensible ;
he could not hear the heavy gasping of the
expiring horse a few yards away from him.

Mistley gently let the dying man's head
drop on to the sand, and then he rose and
stood beside the horse for some moments in
silence. He raised his steadfast gray eyes
to the heavens, now growing dull and of
darker blue — he looked all round the level
horizon. It seemed to him as if this were
the whole world, and that he was alone in it ;
as if there was no world of civilization, of
comfort and of luxury.

It may be brutal, but I think there is no
sin in it,' he murmured.

Then he knelt down on the sand, and with
his knife he killed the horse.

Presently he cut out the tongue, and
gave a mouthful of the warm flesh to his
servant — he could not yet eat of it himself.


The cooler air now revived Paul Mariti.
He turned his head to where Mistley lay on
the sand at his side.

The Englishman heard the movement, and
crawled closer to him.

It is coming . it is coming !' whispered
the Russian.

Then Mistley roused himself.

Paul, this is not like you he said cheerfully,
but it was a ghastly cheerfulness —
1 this is not like you. Where is your determination
? Where is your hope ? After a
good long rest, we will move on ; I am strong
enough to help you. Who knows — we may
see the river by sunrise tomorrow.'

I will never see the sun rise again, little
father.'

Nonsense, Paul ! We will pull through

31— 2

yet. It is a strong combination — a Russian
and an Englishman — so strong that we have
always fought on different sides hitherto.'

The Russian moistened his lips slowly and
painfully with his tongue.

Why did you take me V he asked plaintively.
' I was not good enough for you ; I
was not strong enough. For the last month
I have been a burden to you instead of a
help. I used to consider myself a strongman
; but compared to your strength, to
your energy, to your courage, I am as a fly.
Ah, Mistley — the time has gone now for the
nonsense of master and servant ! You
guessed my secret when you first offered to
take me as guide, but you never guessed my
real name. It seems strange, does it not,
that the two men whose names are more hateful
and more fearful to that . . . devil than the
name of any other living man, should die side
by side in the desert ? Stoop low and I will
whisper my name, for fear the heavens hear

it. Do not start, for it is a name that
curdles the blood of every honest man ; and
yet I have been honest. From first to last
I have been honest. This is the last, and
now, with the hand of Death upon me, I say
there is no God !'

1 Hush, Paul ! You need not tell me
your name. I know who you are now.'

It is all very well for you in happy
England,' continued the other, ' to say
there is a God ; for our country there is
none.'

If you do not cease, I will go and leave
you,' said Mistley. To hear the rattle of
the man's breath, as he gathered strength
to utter these words, was a terrible experience.


Mistley,' whispered the dying man after
a pause.

< Yes, Paul.'

If you live through this, never let them
know that I am dead. Let the burden of

my existence weigh on his mind. While he
thinks I am alive, he will never know a
moment's peace. Let this be my legacy to
the man who made me what I am !'

Winyard Mistley crouched on the sand in
silence. He had an Englishman's awkward
shyness of mentioning the name of God in
other sense than exclamatory, and yet he
shivered to think that this man was really
dying in his arms with blasphemy on his
rigid lips.

Suddenly a sense of chilliness assailed him.
Mechanically he touched the prostrate man's
brow.

Good . . . God . he is dead !'

Then he rose painfully to his feet. The
silence of that great waste of desert was
almost unbearable. Five men out of six
would have gone mad in those first moments
of realization. Winyard Mistley pressed his
forehead with his hands, now cold and damp.
His stern eyes slowly scanned the horizon —

it was almost dark. In the sky, away to the
east, was a shade of pearly-yellow. This
was the soft promise of the moon yet below
the horizon. Mechanically the solitary man
turned towards it. Presently on the hard
black line of the horizon there appeared a
fan-like glow of shimmering yellow, narrowing
into silver rays ; then a tiny spark of
light ever broadening. With a flood of
glory the great globe slowly mounted, till
its lower edge parted with the line of distant
desert.

The scene was too majestic, too awful, and
too lovely for words.

It almost reconciled Mistley to the death
which seemed inevitable.

He turned and glanced at the prostrate
form of Paul Mariti, with its cold and relentless
face turned silently towards the God
Whom he denied.

1 If he could have lived a few moments
longer to see that, he would not have died

with those words upon his lips,' he murmured
vaguely.

Then his thoughts wandered away. A
rush of memories came over him, and sapped
at his courage as running water saps at a
stone pillar.

If I could only think of something else
he muttered, pressing his weary temples.
If I could only see something else than her
eyes . . .'

He slowly raised his face, and again
scanned the hopeless desert around him.

Suddenly his gaze remained riveted on
one spot, to the west of him.

What is that V he mumbled stupidly ;
what is that V

Slowly, like a stricken tree, he collapsed,
falling forward on his face, with his arms
stretched across the dead body of Paul
Mariti.

For an hour he lay thus. At last he
recovered consciousness and awoke, as he

had ever done from sleep, with every sense
on the alert.

First he stood up and gazed fixedly to
the west, along the white track of moonlight
which extended to the very edge of the
horizon ; then he balanced himself on the
dead body of the horse, and so increased
his spread of vision. Across the broad line
of light cast by the moon on the sand was a
tiny silver streak.

Yes, that is the river !' said Mistley.
My luck has not forsaken me, and his
bad fortune has followed him to the very
end !'

Mechanically Winyard Mistley scooped
out a shallow grave, and gently laid therein
the remains of his desperate companion,
before he left the spot.

The peaceful moon looked down that
night on the grim desert, and saw one of the
finest and wholesome sights to be seen on
earth ; ay, finer and wholesome than the

YOUNG MI ST LEY.

fairest woman ever seen. That sight was a
brave man fighting doggedly, quietly and
wittingly against odds so disproportionate
as to render one sceptical regarding all things
Providential.

;^|J??|pHE following season happened to
be a gay one, and among the
gayest was Lena Wright. She
went out with her father and mother ; she
went out with her mother's sister — Lady
Allron. She went anywhere, with anyone,
and appeared to be suffering from an insatiable
thirst for change and novelty. No
number of dances tired her, no partner
wearied her by dancing through from beginning
to end.

The good dancers liked her because she
danced beautifully, and never confessed to
fatigue. She made a serious affair of it, as

they did, and was not bored by silence ; for
the accomplished ones talk little when once
the music has commenced — the smooth poetic
motion, the quick obedience to their slightest
signal, is enough for them. The bashful
young men were devoted to her, for with
them she was girlish and as unsophisticated
as themselves. The staid and hopelessly
selfish old bachelors admired her, because she
laughed readily enough at their egotistical
little jokes. And last of all, the matrons
did not hate her, because, forsooth, her programme
was at the disposal of the new-fledged
youth with split gloves as heartily
as if each had been the lion of the evening.
She set her cap at no one, she was reliable
and merry ; and she appeared to like everyone,
while in reality she was very near to
despising them all with an impartial and
large-minded contempt.

Young ladies, however, did not take to
her as a rule. They explained vaguely that

they did not understand her, which in the
ears of some cynical men amounted to a
confession of inferiority. With them she
was always sweet and kind, for Lena was
of that self-reliant material which (brine it
as you may), like mutton, refuses to be
salted. She listened with an interested
little smile to their vapid boasts of conquests
made, of impressions created and hearts sore
afflicted, but she never had similar experiences
to relate.

There was one amonsr the hard-working*
pleasure-seekers whom Lena did not despise.
Indeed, she did not actually despise any of
them ; what she felt was more a sense of
pity vaguely tempered with wonder that the
clever and undoubtedly brilliant people
around her should be content to fritter away
their intellects in the unprofitable pursuit of
pleasure. This one exception had no individual
excuse. He was as frivolous, as
objectless, and as lazy as any of them, but

then Charlie, dear old Charlie, was different
from other people. He could not be
measured satisfactorily by the common
standard.

The young sailor's club knew him no
longer. His tailor received an order for a
remarkably large suit of dress-clothes, of the
latest material, constructed upon the newest
principles. His huge Saxon frame was to
be met with everywhere. It towered over
one upon crowded stairs ; it insinuated itself
into the tiniest drawing-room, with that
wonderful power of contraction which is so
soon acquired in a crowded city.

Some weeks had elapsed since Laurance
Lowe's dinner-party, and Charlie had not
wasted his time. He had reassumed his
old position in the Seymour Street household.
The circle of visitors there had somewhat
changed in his absence, as he soon
discovered. This was the natural result of
the Colonel's presence. Like all specialists,

the old traveller was much sought after by
his kind. Eastern authorities of every age
and nationality sought him out, and with
these rugged and sunburnt wanderers the
Colonel loved to travel again over far-off
deserts, comparing notes, asking and receiving
hints. Gradually his house came to be
recognised as the headquarters of the party
designated 'alarmist.' Among these experts
it soon became a semi-official secret that
Winyard Mistley was ' out there,' and a few
were taken into further confidence and
allowed to share the Colonel's anxiety at
his long silence. As Winyard's brother,
Charlie found himself of some importance
among these ancient luminaries of Eastern
diplomacy. Thus he occupied a double post
in the household. Firstly, as the Colonel's
friend ; secondly, as Lena's attendant knight
wheresoever she might be pleased to go.

Through it all, like an undercurrent, ran
the thread of his own diplomatic task. From

Lena he had learnt nothing, but one important
step had been made in the right direction.
He had renewed his acquaintance
with the Baroness de Nantille. She had
even been invited to the Wrights' at his
suggestion, upon which occasion he had with
imperturbable calmness devoted himself to
entertaining her, until he discovered that
Lena was beginning to notice it. Laurance
Lowe had been present on this occasion, as
on others when the Baroness and Charlie
were thrown together, and very little that
passed was lost by him.

There were many drawing-rooms in London
to which Mrs. Mistley and her sons had
the entree, and where they could be sure of
a welcome ; and now Charlie suddenly began
to take advantage of this privilege. Wherever
Lena went, he was sure to appear during
the evening. At dull Geographical and
learned soirees he usually put in an appearance
— very late, but by no means disturbed,

for it had come to be an understood thing
that Lena should accord a smiling cone to
any bumptious and self-satisfied young explorer
who might be by her side when the
young sailor appeared.

These same young explorers (a growth of
the present generation) afforded a fund of
amusement to Lena and her family. They
were so terribly prolific in print, and so
lamentably dull in society. Their productions
were so invariably more to the credit of
the British bookbinding industry than to that
of literature ; and they were so desperately
generous with presentation copies, duly
signed with an inky flourish upon the fly-leaf.
Such volumes were constantly arriving
in Seymour Street, and Lena soon realized
the fact that though one may desire to seethe
author after having read a book, it is
rarely satisfactory to read a work upon the
strength of having met its author. In fact,
she usually experienced a strong disinclination
vol. 11. 32

to cut the pages of a volume of which she
had never heard until its writer had forced
it under her notice. Unfortunately for the
modern tribe of scribbling travellers, the
human frame is so constructed that the size
of a man's heart must remain a profound
secret ; and the ordinary observer is compelled
to make his observations upon the
basis of the frame itself. Now most of
these gentry are, by some humorous freak
of Nature, endowed with a diminutive person
; and Lena — a Northumbrian — sweet
and tall herself, and accustomed to lookup
to men, could not succeed in making
heroes of these mighty huntsmen (more accustomed
to the smell of a proof-sheet than
to the glorious odour of burnt powder),
and withheld that admiration and respect
to which they considered themselves fully
entitled.

At balls, Charles Mistley, who was nothing
if not methodical, danced three times

with Lena, and took Mrs. Wright down to
supper. Then he rescued his mother, and
went home to Bedford Place behind a very
small cigar, which form of tobacco appears
to be much affected by big men, as large
pipes are by their smaller brethren.

Of course people talked about his devotion
to Lena, adding to it or detracting
from it according to the requirements of
their purpose, as is the kindly custom of us
all. The Colonel saw it, and shrugged his
shoulders. Mrs. Wright saw it, and understood
it not ; but she watched more closely,
and, strange to say, the pleasant friendship
existing between her and the young sailor
grew in warmth of mutual trust. Laurance
Lowe saw it, and grew uneasy.

When anyone spoke to Charles Mistley on
the subject, either with the bantering bluntness
of a man or the dangerous innocence
of a woman, he smiled his good-natured,
lazy smile, which might mean much and

32—2

usually meant nothing, leaving his questioner
more puzzled than before.

If any woman took the trouble of placing
Lena in such a position that some remark
was absolutely necessary, she would say :

Oh yes, I r like him very much,' and then
would continue the subject with an unconscious
frankness which was vastly puzzling.

To the disinterested observer it would
appear that these two young persons were
drifting into something more than friendship ;
but the observations of that fabulous person
are proverbially unreliable.

No one knows better than the writer of
these humble lines that a friendship — a
perfectly safe friendship — cannot exist for
long between young people of a different
sex who are entirely unconnected by ties of
blood. A man can be a true friend to the
end of the chapter — to his female cousin.
Beyond that the water is of uncertain depth,
with shifting shoals and unmarked channels.

Navigation thereon is dangerous — a collision
would probably occur, resulting in serious
damage to one or both vessels. Or one
might run aground, while the other could
only tack and wear and drift around, not
daring to venture too close for fear of stranding
on the same rock.

It would appear, however, that Lena and
her large friend knew very well what they
were about. At that time she needed someone,
and the sailor seemed to slip naturally
into the vacant place. They never overstepped
the boundaries of friendship, and
only once did they come near to so doing.

It came about one evening, and took them
both a little by surprise. Lena, who made
a point of watching the chaperons dance
the Lancers, had no partner ; and Charlie,
who said he had not enough conversation
for ' that trying performance,' came and sat
beside her. They secured a pleasant corner,
and for some time watched the dancers without

speaking. In the set nearest to them
was an engaged couple of youthful appearance.
These two behaved after the manner
of their kind ; meeting, for instance, at the
end of the ladies' chain as if the separation
had been a matter of weary years.

Lena and her companion naturally observed
this couple. Presently Charlie murmured
vaguely :

That sort of thing makes me feel inclined
to cry.'

Lena laughed gaily.

Please don't,' she said with a great show
of anxiety. ' It might be embarrassing.'

He laughed in his low, quiet way ; and
then, suddenly looking grave, he continued
to watch the young couple lazily.

I do not feel inclined to cry,' continued
Lena, in a graver tone ; ' but I should like
to throw something at him — it is so weak
and unmanly.'

I suppose we all pass through it . . .'

It is to be hoped, for her sake, that he
will pass through it pretty soon ; and remember
that he is a man, with a man's work
to do.'

We . . . are severe,' murmured Charlie
innocently.

Now confess,' said Lena, suddenly facing
him — ' confess that your feelings are . .
contempt for him, and pity for her.'

Yes . . .'he answered slowly. ' I suppose
you are right — and yet . . .'

And yet V

Perhaps I was once like that myself.'

Oh no !' she exclaimed with conviction.

Who knows ?' he said quietly.

There was something in the tone of his
voice that made her turn to glance at his
face. He was carelessly following the delicate
tracery of flowers upon his programme with
the atrocious pencil attached thereto. He
contemplated his handiwork with his head
upon one side for some moments, apparently

with much satisfaction; then he looked up,
and his calm eyes met hers with a little
smile.

I am dismal to-nights he said. ' A brute
of a sailor-man gave me a strong cigar this
afternoon, and strong cigars always make me
dismal.'

But Lena failed to smile. She merely sat
and looked at him speculatively. Charlie
did not appear quite happy under her gentle
scrutiny. By way of doing something he
leant towards her, and borrowed her fan,
which he tried for some time to open the
wrong way. While he was still attempting
this dangerous feat, he continued :

So you must please remember that it
is not all natural density — it is partly
cigar.'

Like most big men, he rarely smiled, and
never frowned, which made it very difficult
at times to say whether he spoke seriously
or not.

I wonder,' said Lena speculatively . . . ' I
often wonder why you so invariably try to
misrepresent yourself — especially to me.'

He looked up with a twinkle of genuine
amusement in his eyes.

You think, I suppose, that it is my duty
to make the best of a bad bargain.'

Is it a bad bargain ?'

He shrugged his shoulders. With the
fan he indicated the dancers before them.

Give them all little slips of paper and
programme pencils,' he said. ' Take a ballot
good bargain or bad bargain — and what
would the result be ?'

She ignored this suggestion, and sat
meditating for some moments.

1 There is something,' she said at length,
wanting in your life. You do not look at
things in a proper light. I think you want
an object — something to be attained, something
to try for, even if you fail.'

Please,' interrupted the young sailor,

1 do not look so serious — it is not worth
your while.'

And,' she continued with a sudden change
of manner, from grave to gay, ' I know what
it is.'

1 By George — do you ? I am glad to
hear it. Kindly prescribe at once.'

What you require,' she said solemnly,
is some one very nice to fall in love with.
I cannot think of anyone exactly suitable at
the present moment, but . I will keep the
matter before me.'

Is that all ?' he asked in a tone expressive
of great disappointment. ' Your remedy
is too simple to be of much use. Also, I
have a strong argument against it — sailors
should not marry, on principle. They
should wait till they are old men, and then
marry their housekeepers.'

Principles and generalities are to be
avoided,' observed Lena gravely.

Well, if you do not approve of that argument,

I can take up another. Suppose
that you see in me an interesting young
man with a story. Suppose I am a blighted
being who has loved in vain, for whom life
has no charms, existence no attraction.
Suppose there is beneath this immaculate
waistcoat a dried-up article which can never
love again. . . . How about your object in
life then ?'

Lena did not reply at once. While watching
the dancers, she was slowly opening and
closing her fan. When she at length spoke,
she deliberately ignored his bantering tone,
and said gravely :

I should be very sorry . to suppose,
all that.'

Why ?'

Because I should prefer to continue believing
that you are different . . . from the
rest.'

With her glance she indicated a group of
men idling near the door.

It does not pay, in these days, to be
different from the rest. Better pass through
with the crowd.'

And,' continued Lena, * it would not
apply to you. If you really wanted a thing,
I think you would get it — in an indifferent,
lazy way.'

Charles Mistley glanced up into her face,
and then, slipping his programme into his
waistcoat-pocket, he rose with a sudden
access of energy and offered his arm.

They have finished,' he said in a matter-of-fact
tone. ' Let us stroll about and
allow some one else to sit down.'

[Askance LOWE and Charles
Mistley were not cursed with the
conspirator's vice of too much
talk and too little action. From the evening
when they had first laid their heads together
until some weeks afterwards, no word passed
between them relative to Lena or Monsieur
Jacob i. The subject was by mutual understanding
allowed to drop, though it was
ever to the fore in either mind.

However, one evening when they were
walking home together from what was
modestly called a musical soiree, Charlie
unearthed the subject. The evening had

been a dull one. Lowe and his young companion
had undoubtedly been sorely out of
their element, and both knew that their
presence at the entertainment was due to
the fact that the Wrights had been there.
Lena had sung once — beautifully and simply,
as was her wont. And the Baroness de
Nantille had obliged the assembled multitude
three times. Her splendid voice had been
greatly assisted by the artistic violin obbligato
of Monsieur Jacobi.

I did not get much farther on to-night,'
said the young sailor, as he stopped beneath
a lamp-post to light his cigar.

Lowe, with his hands pushed deep into
the pockets of a loose top-coat, and an ancient
opera-hat tilted rather forward over his eyes,
stopped also, and watched the delicate operation.


Couldn't be expected,' he said rather
indistinctly, by reason of the cigarette between
his lips.

With Jacobi there, you mean ?'

1 Um — m.'

1 Did you observe that he took no notice
of any of our party V

Overdue it.'

< How ?'

We came in late,' said Lowe. ' It was
unnatural not to look up.'

They walked on, smoking pensively, and
on the deserted pavement their steps rang
out like the tread of one foot.

T have followed up your hint,' said
Charlie ; ' and I think you are right — Jacobi
is mixed up in it somewhere.'

1 Slippery customer,' muttered Lowe.

I have brought all my . . . irresistible
. . powers of fascination to bear upon the
Baroness, but somehow I do not get on very
rapidly. I cannot understand her — she is
extremely changeable. At times she is most
gracious, and then suddenly she seems to
become distrustful. However, in one of her

gracious moods she may make a mistake,
some day, and then . . .'

Lowe took the cigarette from his lips, and
after a pause he said :

There is one way of . . . working it.'

< Yes V

Make love to her.'

That is not much in my line of country,'
said the sailor, with rather an awkward laugh.

Don't think you would find it difficult.'

What do you mean?' asked Charlie slowly.

She would be quite ready.'

The big sailor blushed — privately, to himself
— a dull brick-red beneath the sunburn
which he had not yet lost. He was rather
fond of underrating himself; but this might
after all explain one or two little peculiarities
in the Baroness's manner towards himself.
There was almost an apology conveyed in
Lowe's voice when he spoke again.

It's a beastly task to set a fellow, but . . .
cannot do it myself, you know. We're in it



now ; we must go on, and . . . and Lena is
worth it. I turn off here . . . night !'

Charles Mistley stared vacantly at the
receding figure. How well he knew it ! How
familiar to him was every little trick of
speech, every slow movement, every glance V
There was no variety in Laurance Lowe ;
and as the young fellow stood watching the
bent head and upright form, a strange sense
of monotony came over him. The very words
still ringing in his ears were such as the old
man had used on a hundred previous occasions
: ' I turn off here . . . night.' Simply
stating the fact, and expressing no suggestion
of regret that their ways should separate.
Then the quick pressure of his waxen fingers,
accompanied by a little forward inclination
of the body. It was all so old . so desperately
familiar. And yet how little . . .
how pitifully little . . . did he know of the
real man ! The heart beneath that loosely-fitting
coat, and the brain under the jaunty

vol. 11. :\S

yet pathetic old opera-hat, were alike closed
and illegible. Who could say what echoes
of a bygone time, what shadows of a
former existence flitted through that fallow
mind ? The forlorn old man, as he walked
rapidly through the deserted streets, was
a monument to the memory of Love,
Hope, and Ambition — dead years ago, and
buried.

Charlie was for a moment prompted to
run after him, to walk with him, and conduct
him safely to his own door, but he hesitated,
and it was too late. The lone old fellow did
not ask such little attentions ; they would
have surprised him, and probably he would
prefer being left alone.

I wonder,' said the young sailor to himself,
as he turned and walked quickly in the
opposite direction, ' I wonder if I will ever ?
come to that !'

Laurance Lowe's cold-blooded suggestion
bore rapid fruit. The following afternoon

Charles Mistley called at the house where
the Baroness de Nantille had for the time
taken rooms. This was in an unfrequented
street leading eastwards from Portland Place.
As the young sailor turned the corner into
Duke Street, he descried the graceful figure
of Monsieur Jacobi at the far end, going in
the opposite direction. This caused him to
slacken his pace so as to allow the violinist
time to oft round the corner before he ransf
the bell of number thirty-seven.

The Baroness was at home. Charles
Mistley gave his name, and after a short
delay was requested to step upstairs. As he
entered the drawing-room, she rose from a
seat near the window to greet him, but did
not advance a single step.

In deference to her foreign custom, the
young Englishmen 1 bowed without offering
his hand. He noticed that the Baroness
was perfectly self-possessed, although very
pale. Then he broke the momentary silence

without displaying the least sign of embarrassment
or hesitation :

1 Miss Wright is not here ¥ he said
quietly.

'No.'

But this is her day, is it not, madame ¥

No ; she comes to me tomorrow.'

Ah — I have deranged you for nothing,
then. I thought I would find Miss Wright
here. I wished to tell her that I have
received seats for a theatre to-night . . .'

He made a movement as if he would go,
then he appeared to change his mind.

I have never had an opportunity,
madame,' he said, ' of expressing my sympathy.
Since I had the pleasure of meeting
you last year, you have had a great misfortune,
I believe.'

The Baroness bowed her beautiful head
and resumed her seat with a peculiar smoothness
of action, motioning her visitor to sit
down at the same time.

You are very kind,' she said in a low
voice, expressive of greater emotion than the
occasion would seem to demand. ' I have
passed through certain misfortunes . . . too
long to narrate even to such a patient
listener as yourself.'

Charlie had not accepted her invitation
to seat himself. Instead of so doing he
advanced towards the window, and was leaning
against the woodwork, looking down at
her.

I was not aware,' he said, * until just
lately that you had the misfortune to be a
Russian subject. Anyone of that nationality
is interesting to me, as you are perhaps
aware. My father was connected with
Russia for many years, and now my brother
. . has followed in his footsteps.'

Lower and lower the fair head was bent
over the motionless hands, which lay upon
her simple dress with a peculiar stillness ;
but the Baroness made no reply.

But I do not wish to awaken disagreeable
memories, madame ; all I desire is to express
my sympathy and my readiness to be of any
service to you. It is the least an Englishman
can do in his own country, which is not
exactly renowned for its sympathy towards
strangers.'

The Baroness raised her head, but she did
not look at him. She appeared to be studying
the pattern of the dingy lace curtain.
Her companion saw her eyelids quiver fora
moment — then she spoke in her smooth
monotone.

Do not call me — " madame," ' she said.
I am not . . . madame. I took my mother's
title for the sake of convenience, in London.'

Ah, Mother Eve ! How many neat little
plots hast thou demolished ! How often
hast thou, by the sudden raising of thy restless
tongue, upset the completest schemes
ever woven by human brain !

Charles Mistley looked down at her without



betraying the least sign of surprise ; but
he changed colour slightly.

That only makes your claim upon my
services the stronger,' he said, after a
pause.

The Baroness bowed her head silently, and
said :

1 Monsieur, I have no claim upon your
services. On the contrary, you are the last
Englishman to whom I should apply in case
I required assistance !'

I do not understand . . .'

1 You will do so, however, when I tell
you that my real name is Marie Bakovitch.'

1 Marie . . . Bakovitch !' repeated the
Englishman slowly — 'Marie . . . Bakovitch !'

She raised her cold blue eyes to his,
watching keenly the effect of the revelation
she had just made.

Then,' she said, * your brother has told

you V

No — Colonel Wright told me.'

1 And now do you understand why I can
claim no disinterested service from you V

No,' he said simply.

She laughed, a little short laugh that
would have been harsh had her voice not
been wonderfully melodious.

You Englishmen — are so aggravating
chivalrous,' she said. ' With us it is different
women are nearer to the men in Russia.'

I do not understand, mademoiselle,' said
the young sailor gravely, ' why you have
told me this.'

1 No ?' She raised her eyes to his again.
He would have been blind had he not understood
what he read there. ' It is a long
story,' she continued, ( and . . . perhaps an
old one. Also, it is not cheerful, for it is
the story of a mistake.'

1 Tell it to me,' he said quietly.

Eighteen months ago, immediately after
your brother left England, I had a long and
serious illness. Through it I was nursed by

my maid — a child of sixteen, assisted by my
. . friend, Ivan Meyer. When I recovered
sufficiently to take an interest in life I learnt
from him that he was impatiently awaiting
the moment when he could leave me to return
to Russia. There had been in my
native town a reign of terror, and among the
first to be arrested on suspicion was my
father — a noted loyalist, a faithful Government
servant. It is thus . . . monsieur . . .
that Nihilists are made.'

Then,' said the Englishman, ' you have
changed.'

1 Yes, I have changed.'

I am sorry for it.'

< Why ?'

Because,' said Charlie, ' it brings you
into contact with such men as Monsieur
Jacobi.'

Marie Bakovitch looked up sharply, but
he avoided meeting her eyes.

What do you know of Monsieur Jacobi V

Charlie shrugged his broad shoulders contemptuously.


Nothing, mademoiselle.'

1 But you hate him.'

Well . . . scarcely. I have never had
the necessary energy to hate anyone yet. I
do not like him.'

It is of Jacobi,' continued the girl, ' that
I have to tell ; it is against him that I must
ask your help. Remember I do not ask it
for myself, for I do not fear him. It is for
Lena Wright . . .'

Marie Bakovitch looked up somewhat
suddenly. She met her companion's eyes,
calm, impassive, and inscrutable as usual,
fixed upon her face.

Yes,' he said ; ' go on.'

He is connected with several secret
societies, political and otherwise. Notably
the " Brotherhood of Liberty," of which he
pretends to be the London chief. For some
months he has been scheming to obtain

money from Lena Wright for the purposes
of the Brotherhood.'

1 I thought money would come in somewhere.'


1 Yes, all Jacobi's plots are connected
with money sooner or later. He heard
from sources unknown to me that she will
be comparatively rich some day, and he has
been endeavouring to persuade her to borrow
this money ; it is a large sum.'

You have not told me what hold he has
over her.'

He has represented that the Brotherhood
has agencies and connections all over
the world, and by these means he could,
with the aid of a certain sum of ready money,
obtain immediate information as to the
safety, or otherwise, of your . . . brother
Winyard. She . I think . . . she . . .'

Yes,' said Charlie gravely, ' I understand
. . But how did he get to know of this ?
. . he has surely had no opportunity . . .'

1 He learnt it from me.'

From you ? You said just now that you
did not fear him.'

Not now. He can do nothing now —
now that I . . . that you . . .'

Ah !' said the Englishman compassionately,
' I understand. He has been threatening
you with the disclosure of your real
name. You need not have feared that,
mademoiselle. No one except my brother
could have harmed you, and you have misjudged
him if you thought that he would
do anything unmanly or . . . cowardly !'

She sat before him on a low chair. Her
face was hidden from him, and as he looked
down upon her he could only see the soft
coils of flaxen hair and the white curve of
her neck. But he heard the long-drawn,
sobbing breath ; he saw the quick rise of
her shoulders. Assuredly he read these
signs aright. No man with a tithe of
Charles Mistley's intelligence could have

been so blind, so cruelly blind, unless the
blindness were intentional.

It was not that, monsieur,' she murmured,
in little more than a whisper.

He stood there motionless and strong as
ever man was created, but there passed
across his face a momentary twinge of real
physical pain. Suddenly he roused himself
with an effort, and said with a practical
matter-of-fact energy :

Mademoiselle, we must waste no time.
I am deeply grateful — more grateful than
ever I can hope to express — for the confidence
you have placed in me. You said
just now that . . . Jacobi pretends to bethe
London chief of this Brotherhood ; have
you doubts about the truth of his assertion
?'

Yes ; I know that such a Society exists,
and that its headquarters are in Rotterdam ;
but I believe Jacobi is no member of it.
He has represented himself to be its chief,

simply for the purpose of obtaining money.
He has, in fact, deceived us all.'

Thank you ! May I ask when you next
assemble ?'

To-morrow afternoon in this room, and
Miss Wright is to be present as a probationary
member — three o'clock is the hour.'

To-morrow at three. Thank you ! You
may leave everything to me, mademoiselle.
I have a friend — Laurance Lowe — who is a
journalist of some repute. He will doubtless
know about this " Brotherhood of
Liberty " — the real one, I mean. I will
endeavour to do everything in as quiet and
. . womanlike . a manner as I can.
I will see you tomorrow afternoon.'

With a bow he left her, walking slowly
as though allowing her time to call him
back if she had so desired. But she remained
motionless, and did not even return
his formal salutation.

Through the open window came the sound

of his firm footstep on the pavement below,
dying away in the perspective of sound that
travelled over the grimy roofs in one continuous
roar of life from Oxford Street, and
the neighbouring busy haunts of men.

The dull smoky twilight came on apace.
The red glow faded into purple, and imperceptibly
assumed a neutral gray at last. Still
Marie Bakovitch sat there with bowed head
and lifeless eyes. No murmur of complaint
passed her level lips, no sigh rose within
her bosom. She merely sat there without
appearing to think or reason — sat and
endured with that strange, pathetic, dumb
endurance which is the curse of the Slavonic
race.

ENA's singing-lesson the following
afternoon was interrupted by the
arrival of Monsieur Jacobi. This
gentleman was accompanied by his friend
Mr. Ryan, a keen eyed individual, who was
ever ready to espouse the cause of the oppressed
of every nationality, provided there
was money to be made and little risk attaching.
Presently a feeble-minded English lady
of uncertain age arrived, and immediately
behind her a mild-mannered German gentleman
of short sight and unkempt hair.

This was the first time Lena had met the
members of the Brotherhood of Liberty, and

she was divided between an inclination to
laugh and a desire to run away. But everybody
was desperately serious. Monsieur
Jacobi was suave and gentlemanly as usual,
but not entirely at his ease. His hold over
the Baroness de Nantille, as she was still
called, had never been very secure, and he
instinctively felt that it was slipping from
him day by day. However, the man was
possessed of a certain superficial courage — a
type of bravery which shines in the presence
of women, but goes no distance among men.

There was just enough mystery in the
proceedings to content the English maiden
lady and the short-sighted Teuton, without
unnecessarily aggravating the Baroness.
When all were seated, not at a table, but
round the room, without formality, Monsieur
Jacobi began speaking :

I have considered it necessary,' he said,
to call the London branch of this Brotherhood
together, for the purpose of deciding a

vol. 11. 3-1

question of some importance. It is usual
for myself and Secretary Ryan to decide
such minor questions as may arise, but we
feel that this is beyond our jurisdiction.

Here Monsieur Jacobi paused, and assumed
a demeanour expressive of some hesitation in
the choice of words necessary to proceed
with a somewhat difficult task. The German
gentleman took the opportunity of ejaculating
' Good !' which monosyllable was
allowed to pass unnoticed. The English
lady gazed admiringly with the weakest of
eyes at the speaker, and rubbed her yellow
hands nervously together. Secretary Ryan
lay back in his chair, looking intensely
business-like and practical. Lena began to
feel that she was in what Charlie would
call a ' mess ;' but, like her mother, she
was endowed with a certain amount of pluck,
and she waited patiently, glancing occasionally
at the Baroness's scornful face.

I need not tell you,' continued Monsieur

Jacobi, with some emotion, ' that our movements
are again hampered by the poverty of
the Brotherhood. It is the old sad story.
The rich oppress us by their very riches.
Against this demon we fight in vain. And
yet who can say that it is in vain ? Is it
for nothing that we work ? Is it for nothing
that those of us who possess certain means
give what we have to the cause ?'

1 Good !' observed the German, who was
penniless.

No ; let us go on with our work, and
hope that in the fulness of time — perhaps
when none of us are left to witness it — the
fruit may grow and ripen. It is enough for
us to know that while assisting our poorer
brethren, we are sowing the glorious seeds
of liberty.'

Hear, hear !' said Secretary Ryan. He
always said ' hear, hear,' after the word
liberty.'

'And now — now at the moment when we

34 — 2

are almost paralyzed by the want of funds,
one among us has come forward willingly and
nobly with open hands. My friends, are we
to accept this generous gift ? It is to
answer this question that I have called you
together. I do not desire to bias you in
either direction. Heaven knows we want
the money badly ; we all know to what good
use it will be put. But are we to lose sight of
the fact that it must necessarily be obtained
with some secrecy ? Are we to overlook the
possibility of misunderstanding, of misconception,
that will hang over our own heads ?
My friends . I will say no more ; my
opinion must not be permitted to influence
your decision.'

No, no,' cried Ryan ; ' let us have your
opinion.'

Monsieur Jacobi hesitated for some time.
He even succeeded in looking bashful. Lena
glanced at the Baroness, and saw that her
eyes were fixed on the door.

'Well . . .' began Jacobi. ' If it is your
wish I will speak. Now — listen to me '

At this moment the door opened, and
Charles Mistley entered the room, alone.
In one comprehensive glance he took in the
situation, noting the position of every person
in the room. He closed the door, and stood
with his back against it.

No,' he said imperturbably. ' Listen tome
f

Jacobi half rose from his seat, and then
sank back again with rather a sickly smile.
Ryan made no movement whatever, but his
unhealthy face assumed an ashen-gray. The
maiden lady and the German sat gazing
weakly at the stalwart intruder. Noiselessly
the Baroness rose from her seat, and crossed
the room to where Lena sat ; and there she
stood, waiting.

Lena felt that the whole situation was
intensely funny from an observer's 2>oint of
view ; but unfortunately she was an actor in

the comedy, which sadly altered the matter.
However, Charles Mistley had too much
tact to treat the affair jocosely. He looked
gravely round him, and then spoke in a
deliberately authoritative voice, which recalled
to Lena's memory a half-forgotten
remark of Laurance Lowe's, to the effect
that Charlie was essentially a foul weather
sailor.

I am sorry,' he said, ' to disturb matters,
but . I think Monsieur Jacobi knows
who I am. If he should require any explanation
he knows where to find me . . .'

Jacobi shrugged his shoulders indifferently,
while Ryan watched him furtively.

Will you come with me now ?' continued
Mistley, addressing Lena.

There was a sad lack of dramatic effect
about the whole affair. No one jumped to
his feet and drew a firearm from his breast-pocket.
There was no need for the sailor to
assume a defiant attitude, and hurl back his

assailants. In fact, the proceedings were
decidedly tame. Charles Mistley not only
succeeded in performing his task quietly and
in a womanlike manner, as he had promised,
but went farther, and rendered the whole
affair a lamentably dull incident. This is to
be regretted ; the loss, great though it maybe
to the world in general, is essentially one
affecting the chronicler of these events. So
much might have been made of it. What
pictures might have been drawn of the huge
mariner, barricaded by such movable pieces
of furniture as he could lay hands on, standing
in front of the trembling Lena, brandishing
a chair over the muddled head of the
short-sighted German ! Bullets might have
been made to bury themselves in the woodwork
of the door, and . ah ! glorious inspiration
— Marie Bakovitch might effectively
have been removed from the scene by the
simple means of a revolver-bullet aimed at
Charles Mistley 's heart, but intercepted by

her fair breast ! The whole thing would
have illustrated so well — what a chance for
the artist commissioned with the design fora
yellow-back !

The thought is a sad one ; but Truth trims
her lamp so well that the poorest writer must
perforce keep to the path. The lives of most
of us would not, it is to be feared, illustrate
very well. Many of us would find it hard
to provide a suitable and attractive incident
for the cover. And, again, few of us are
called upon to assist at the sudden demise of
such persons as are hateful to us, or in our
way, at the precise moment when such an
event would wind up the second volume
satisfactorily.

Nothing of a dramatic nature occurred.
Lena rose from her seat, and crossing the
room, she stood beside Charlie, experiencing
a sudden sense of comfort and relief at the
mere contact of his sleeve, which touched
her shoulder.

I do not know,' said Charlie to the
assembled Brotherhood, ' and it is not my
business to inquire, who is implicated in this
swindle, and who among you are dupes ; but
it may be of some interest to you to learn
that that man . . . there . . . Jacobi — is
a common swindler. He is no more the
London chief of the Brotherhood of Liberty
than I am. Such a society exists, and I have
been in communication with the authorities
at its headquarters in Rotterdam. It has
transpired that Jacobi was once a clerk in
their office ; and they are at present somewhat
anxious for his address, with a view to
the recovery of some funds which he, by
mistake, removed from their cash-box, and
omitted to restore. It is only fair to you,
Monsieur Jacobi, to inform you that in the
course of my inquiries I am afraid the
Brotherhood must have learnt that you are
in London.'

Then he opened the door, and by way of

intimating to Lena to pass out in front of
him, he touched her arm slightly. It was
not his habit to do this, as it is with some
men. Not even with his mother did he ever
indulge in such harmless familiarities. Lena
noted the little touch, and somehow, to her,
it said much that Charlie never allowed to
appear in his intercourse with her. There
was a sense of protection, a hint, as it were,
of brotherly affection and reliability in this
rare exhibition of feeling, slight though the
indication of it might be.

At the head of the stairs he stopped.

You will find Mr. Lowe downstairs,' he
said. ' I must go back and see after the
Baroness. Walk on slowly towards Bedford
Place ; I will catch you up. My mother expects
us all to afternoon tea, as arranged
yesterday.'

He watched her descend the stairs, and
heard Lawrence Lowe come forward to meet
her ; then he turned, and coolly re-entered

the room where the so-called Brotherhood
was still assembled.

With a vague feeling of unreality Lena
passed out of the house with Laurance Lowe.
Mechanically she noticed a sturdy, sailor-like
man walking slowly past the house.
This son of the Deep assumed such an exceedingly
innocent air of exaggerated non-recognition
at the sight of Laurance Lowe,
that had Lena had her usual keenness of
observation at command, she could not have
failed to detect that he was connected with
Charlie's womanlike manoeuvre.

Lowe said nothing for some minutes. He
walked slowly by the girl's side in unemotional
silence. Before they had gone many
yards Lena stopped short.

Has Charlie gone back,' she said, with
sudden realization of it all, ' into . . . that
room alone V

Yes,' replied Lowe. ' He will catch us
up presently.'

She made a little movement as if to retrace
her footsteps.

But . . . but she exclaimed, ' we cannot
let him do that ! There are three
men . . .'

It is all right said Lowe, walking on ;
4 Charlie knows the sort of men he has to
deal with.'

Nevertheless, he glanced back at the
corner of the street to see if Charlie had
come out of the house yet.

They walked on together. There were a
hundred questions Lena wished to ask, but
she was restrained by a feeling of humiliation
or shyness. Lowe appeared to be in no
hurry to explain matters. To judge from
his manner, it would appear that Lena had
just come from her singing-lesson. This
method of slurring over difficulties by silence
is a terribly fascinating one, mistaken though
it may be. It grows upon us as it had
grown upon Laurance Lowe ; and, like any

other habit, the tendrils it throws out over
the mind are stronger than we believe.

Before they had gone far they heard a
quick footstep behind them, and Charles
Mistley came to Lena's side. They were in
Portland Place, and as he joined them he
beckoned to the driver of a hansom-cab.
There seemed to be no question of Lowe
getting into the cab with Lena. He nodded,
and as he beckoned to a second driver,
Charlie took his seat at Lena's side.

The young sailor began his explanation at
once.

Lena,' he said, ' only Lowe and myself
know of this, and it will be better to keep
the whole affair quiet for some time yet.
Of course, it is not quite the right thing for
you to keep it secret from your mother ;
but later . . . later, perhaps . . . when Win
is home again, you can tell her all about it.'

Lena turned slowly towards him. She
was leaning back in the cab, while he sat

forward with his gloved hands resting on
the door. They were passing down Oxford
Street, and the smoothness of the pavement
rendered it unnecessary for her to raise her
voice.

When Win comes home !' she repeated
wonderingly. ' What has Win to do with

it?

She was fully convinced that whatever he
might know, he could not have guessed at
her motive for joining the Brotherhood of
Liberty. That, at all events, was never to
be disclosed. But Charles Mistley had provided
for this.

The Baroness de Nantille,' he said, ' is
Marie Bakovitch !'

She seemed to be slowly forcing the realization
of his words into her own mind. At
the first thought it appeared to be an impossibility
; but gradually, as she looked
back over her acquaintanceship with the
Baroness, the thing seemed possible, and

finally she felt that there was no doubt
about the truth of her companion's statement.


After a short pause Charlie continued :
I have acted in the matter as I think
Win himself would have done. Of course,
I do not pretend to know much of these
diplomatic affairs, but . it seems to me,
Lena . . . that nothing must be disclosed,
even to the Colonel, just yet. By chance I
learnt about Jacobi from the Baroness herself
— some day I will tell you all about it.
It is a long story to begin now. When I
went back just now, she told me that Ivan
Meyer, the man to whom she is . . . engaged
is coming tomorrow. She will write a
note to you to-night, saying that she is
leaving London suddenly, and cannot give
you any more singing-lessons.

Then they drove on for some time without
speaking. Presently Lena began to realize
that all the events of the last half-hour

were the result of forethought and deliberate
organization. Every little mishap had been
provided for, every moment had been utilized,
and every action premeditated by the good-natured
lazy sailor, who invariably maintained
that he was the poorest organizer living.

She saw it all, and yet she could not
begin to thank him. At last she spoke.

How stupid I have been !' she said.
How idiotic and weak you must think me,
Charlie !'

No,' he replied. ' No . I think . . .
well, it does not matter much what I think,
because here we are in Bedford Place ; and
there is my respected mother at the window.
It was arranged that I should bring you
here from your singing-lesson — if you remember.'


Charles Misled never gave
Lena the full account of his discovery
of Jacobi's little plot. It
is so easy to put off an explanation till a
more convenient occasion, which somehow
never arises. From Lowe she could learn
nothing — explanation was not his forte.

And so the subject was shelved, partly
with deliberate intention on the part of the
young sailor, partly by the advent of a more
momentous question. Jacobi disappeared,
and never returned into Lena's life to wake
up memories best left to sleep. Marie
Bakovitch left England with Ivan Meyer.
vol. ii. 35

Some years later Mrs. Mistley heard of her
in Paris, recognising the beautiful Russian
girl in a vivacious French description of
the ' ravishing ' wife of a rising young artist.
It would have been easy enough for the gay
little Englishwoman to have made the acquaintance
of the blond belle of a Paris
season had she desired to do so ; but women
are more charitably inclined towards each
other than the world is generally pleased to
suppose, and the mother of Winyard and
Charles Mistley felt that it was better to
avoid recalling to the mind of Madame Ivan
Meyer the fact that she had once been called
Marie Bakovitch.

On the day completing the eighteenth
month after Winyard Mistley's departure
there was a dinner-party at the house in
Seymour Street. Any disinterested and
experienced matron, watching the arrival of
the guests from between the lathes of a
Venetian blind, would unhesitatingly have

prophesied a slow and wearisome evening
for the guests at this entertainment. There
were no ladies — ' absolutely no ladies, my
dear' — except Mrs. Mistley, Lena, and her
mother.

The only young man was Charles Mistley,
and he was handicapped by the presence of
half a dozen veterans — white-haired old
warriors, who were desperately attentive
and vastly gallant to the ladies, more especially
to Lena ; sturdy old rolling-stones,
with an inexhaustible fund of anecdotes,
little calculated to entertain the fair. These
old stagers, however, did weighty justice to
the delicacies set before them, and were
mightily pleased with the manner in which
they each and severally entertained the
ladies.

Mrs. Wright led the way to the drawing
room at the first opportunity, and the old
fellows were left to pull down their waistcoats
with a grave sense of satisfaction at

35 — 2

the skilful manner in which they had kept
up the spirits of the assembly.

It was rather a remarkable fact that,
considering the previous hilarity, no sound
of mirth travelled from the dining-room to
the drawing-room in the lengthy interval
that supervened before the gentlemen rose
from the table.

When they at length trooped into the
drawing-room, they found the two elder
ladies sitting together near the fireplace,
while Lena stood in the narrow window,
taking advantage of the last rays of daylight
to complete some dainty piece of needlework.
Charles Mistley lounged across the
room, and occupied in a masterly manner the
remainder of that window.

Spoiling your eyes ?' he inquired indifferently.


Yes,' she replied.

The old men grouped themselves round
the two elder ladies, and conversation was

the immediate result. These two women
of the world knew how to ' take ' their
ancient admirers. They knew the style of
conversation that interested them ; they
laughed readily at somewhat feeble old jokes.
Thus these veteran actors acted to each other,
knowing all the time that it could be butin
vain. Mrs. Mistley knew that these
travellers had been called together to discuss
the probable fate of her son. The old men
surely knew something of a parent's love ;
they must have known that this smiling
gray-haired woman was bearing with her
such a weight of cruel suspense as only a
woman could carry without sinking beneath
the burden. And yet, forsooth, they talked
of the ' season,' of Parliamentary reputations
made and lost, and other matters of equal importance
; throwing in their little jokes and
helping each other cunningly with a ready
chorus of meaningless laughter.

The fading light of the sunset was fully

reflected on Lena's face as she stood in the
recess of the tall window working deftly.
Charlie, leaning against the wall opposite
to her, was looking at her absently. One
would hardly have thought that he was
noting the little painful droop r of her eyelids
when she ceased speaking. He had not
the reputation of a keen observer.

His reflections were interrupted by the
advent of Adonis, who solemnly crossed the
room, at this moment, to pay his respects.
He stooped and caressed the dog's rough
head for some moments ; then, without raising
his eyes, he said : ' Lena.'

Yes.'

The girl looked up from her work with
her ready smile, which had of late grown
almost mechanical.

At last — at last I am going to do something.'


'To do something,' she repeated with ready
interest.

Yes. I have made a mighty resolution
to be a hammer in future instead of an anvil.'

I am very glad,' she said in a more
serious tone, though still treating the matter
lightly. ' It is to be hoped that it will
prove beneficial to humanity.'

Do you know,' he said with sudden
gravity, ' that you are looking desperately
ill?'

She raised her eyes to his with a little
defiant stare of surprise.

Are you going to study medicine V she
asked, returning to her needlework.

He made no pretence of smiling, and continued
quietly :

You have a look about the eyes which,
by some mysterious method, conveys to my
slow brain the impression that you dread
waking up in the morning, and . . . consequently
wake up all the earlier.'

She turned suddenly, and placing both
her hands on the woodwork of the window,

she looked, between her wrists, into the
quiet street. Her profile, pure and almost
painfully refined in its beauty, was all he
could see. The movement brought her
closer to him, and once she swayed a little
to one side so that her dress touched his
sleeve. He looked down at her gently,
noting the slim straightness of her figure,
the firm curve of her lips. She was very
strong in her self-suppression ; but compared
to his, her strength was as nothing.

This atmosphere of suspense is killing
you he continued in his monotonous voice.
It is all very well for these old folks — they
can stand it. Perhaps their senses are a
little duller than ours ; but for us it is
desperately trying. I have felt it for sometime
. . . and . . . and I have watched its
effect upon you. It shows more than you
quite realize, I think. I am not a particularly
sensitive fellow, or nervous, you know ;
and if I feel it, it must be pretty bad.'

You make me feel quite interesting,' she
said, with a brave little laugh, which, however,
ceased abruptly, and she closed her
lips hurriedly.

He continued to look down at her gravely
for some moments ; then he turned, and
glanced out of the window indifferently.

Your left hand is trembling at the
present moment,' he said in a lower tone.
It may be — of course — that it is resting on
the nerve ; but your mother is looking this
way . . . also mine.'

She let her hand drop, almost impatiently,
to her side. Presently she resumed her
work, and took no notice of him for some
moments.

What has all this to do with your virtuous
resolutions ?' she asked slowly and
almost coldly.

To-day is Tuesday,' he replied ; ' on
Friday I start for Central Asia. I am
going to seek Win.'

She grew very pale ; the colour even left
her lips. Charlie continued to gaze out of
the window. They both looked remarkably
bored.

But he said that no one had to be sent
before twenty-one months — twelve weeks
yet.'

Central Asia,' replied Charlie, * does not
belong to Win. I can go there if I want
to ; I will risk disobeying his instructions.
The old gentlemen were rather difficult to
deal with on that subject ; but T succeeded
at last in convincing them that it was best
for me to go. I have arranged about my
leave of absence.'

Then,' said she decisively, ' you think
there is something wrong.'

Yes — Lena. I am afraid there is something
wrong.'

She was still working at the little silken
trifle, through which the needle slipped at
regular intervals.

Tell me . . .' she whispered, ' what you
are afraid of . . . what you think has happened.
Tell me if you have given up all
. . hope !'

No, there is no question of giving up
yet ; there is every hope, every chance in his
favour. Win is very tough ; we are a tough
race. I think he may have been delayed by
a hundred mishaps, at which it is impossible
to guess. When I am gone, Lena, it will
be your task to . to keep my mother upto
the mark. It is so much easier to be
plucky when there are plucky people around
one.'

1 I will try, Charlie,' she said simply.

And I will keep you posted up as to my
whereabouts. If I miss him — if we pass
each other on the way, you should be able
to stop me somewhere ; the Colonel is
arranging all that. But— after all, if I
wander about there, say, for a year or so, it
does not matter much. A year more or

less out of an idle life is of no great consequence.'


He stopped, and looked down at her with
his lazy, placid smile. Presently she looked
up, and met his eyes.

Yours is not an idle life, Charlie,' she
said. ' I have realized that lately. I will
never call you lazy again. It is only your
manner.'

By-the-bye,' he said suddenly, as if recollecting
himself, ' I will leave this cross
with you. It is the thing Akryl bought
from Win at Kizil Arvatt. It is no good
my taking it out there again. I will fasten
it to your watch-chain. Allow me — no one
is looking. It is all right !'

He made a movement as if to join the
others. It was a silent suggestion that she
should do the same ; but she remained motionless,
and for some reason he did not carry
out his purpose.

Charlie,' she said, looking past him into

the deserted street, ' do you remember
one night long ago . it was the first time
that we danced so much together — the first
time we found out . . . how well we . . . £sot
on with each other ?'

Yes he replied with a peculiar, dull look
upon his face. ' Yes, I remember.'

You look now just as you looked then,'
she continued vaguely. ' There is no change
in your appearance ; you are as big and
strong and . . . and reliable as ever. Your
manner is apparently the same. But there
is a change somewhere — there is a change
in you or in me. What is it — where is it
how is it, Charlie ? Is it in you, or is it
in me ?'

I expect,' he suggested restlessly, ' that
it is in both. We are getting older, you see.
People cannot grow older without changing
a little, and it is generally supposed to bea
change for the better.'

But — but this is not for the better.'

1 1 believe,' he said lightly, ' that the
whole thing is a creation of your own imagination.
You admit that I am the same ;
I know that you are unaltered — where can
the change be ?'

Yet — you must admit that there is a
difference. Things are not as they used to
be

It is the way of the world,' he replied
with a mirthless laugh. ' Things never areas
they used to be. No — Lena, I admit
nothing. There is an old gentleman opening
the piano preparatory to asking you to
sing. I must go and help him.'

I am not going to sing the " Farewell "
to-night,' she said, as he moved away.

No,' he replied gravely. ' Please don't !'

iO Charles Mistley tranquilly began
his simple arrangements for a
journey he was destined never
to take.

Suspense, like all mortal things, must
have an end ; and for the watchers in Sey-mour
Street the end was drawing near. It
came at last, on the Thursday morning, just
twenty-four hours before the time fixed by
Charlie for his departure.

Lena was still in her room, although the
punctual breakfast-bell had been rung some
minutes before. She was in the act of
fixing a little brooch at her throat, when

there was a hurried knock at the door, and
the sound of the Colonel's voice, vibrating
with emotion, followed instantaneously.

Lena — Lena !'

Yes, papa,' she answered quietly enough.
Then she stood motionless with her back to
the window, watching the door.

May I come in, Lena V

Yes !' She knew that there was news
at last.

Then the door opened. For a moment
Lena experienced a strong desire to laugh
aloud. The Colonel entered the room hastily ;
in one hand he flourished a Submarine Telegraph
form, in the other was the bread-knife
with little scraps of brown paper adhering
to its edge.

Mistley is at Vienna !' he gasped. ' He
is at Vienna ! Thank God for this !'

He threw the bread-knife upon the bed,
and presently went there and rashly sat
upon it.

Yes,' said Lena quietly. She was still
engaged with her brooch, and now she
turned to look into the fflass.

Lena,' exclaimed her father, ' do you
hear me — do you understand ? He is at
Vienna — he is safe ! Here is the telegram
they have just brought it !'

He held the paper towards her. She
saw the action, and noted mechanically the
slips of blue paper pasted on to the white
telegram form. She remembered wishing
with all her strength to step forward and
take that paper ; then there came a sudden
blank — a sense of utter, boundless vacuity,
and she found her mother's comforting arms
around her.

At breakfast the telegram was discussed
word by word. It was not entirely satisfactory
ujjon closer investigation.

4 Safe, but quite knocked up. Can you come
to me? Tell mate?" and Charlie.'

vol. ir. 36

" Can you come to me ?" . . .' repeated
Colonel Wright, with a fierce look in his
eyes, as he swallowed a hasty breakfast.
Can I go to him ? that is like Mistley.
As if the fellow did not know . as if he
didn't know. And yet he puts it like that ;
it is Mistley all through. You cannot tell
whether the fellow means to be funny or
pathetic, and somehow it is both.'

Mrs. Wright made no reply. She merely
laughed a low gentle laugh, and behind the
friendly covert of a large fern, which stood
upon the table, a tear fell unseen upon a
piece of fried bacon.

Presently Lena drove off to Bedford
Place with the news. The morning was
fresh and invigorating, with just a suspicion
of autumnal sharpness in she clear atmosphere.
Never had London appeared so
fair to Lena — never had the world appeared
so bright. The very drudges dusting the
steps and black-leading the scrapes were

not ordinary housemaids that morning. For
them, even, life seemed to have its pleasures,
its joys and its consolation. The dust they
caused to fly from overworked door-mats
actually scintillated with gold.

The patient hansom-cab horse, with his
flopping, nerveless ears, was worthy of all
human sympathy — the very ordinary hansom
flew through the rosy air with the speed of
the sun-god's chariot.

Mrs. Mistley was standing with her back
to the window, the Times in her hand, when
Lena entered the room. The remains of
breakfast upon the table showed that Charlie
had already left the house. Mrs. Mistley
turned her graceful white head somewhat
sharply towards the door, when the servant
opened it. For a moment she looked at
Lena with a sudden gleam of emotion in her
calm gray eyes ; then she laid aside the
newspaper and advanced towards her.

You have news !' she said, in her pretty

36—2

tainted English. ' Lena, you have news ; I
can see it in your eyes !'

Lena had to stoop just a little to kiss the
brave steady lips.

Yes,' she replied, ' I have news. Papa
has sent me to say that Winyard is all right.
He is in Vienna — here is a copy of the
telegram.'

Mrs. Mistley received the news cheerfully.
She evinced no surprise, and was by no
means demonstrative in her joy ; in fact, it
was hard to realize that she had ever felt a
moment's anxiety. Lena expressed some
surprise that Winyard should have telegraphed
to her father instead of his own
mother ; but Mrs. Mistley thought nothing
of it, explaining that Win knew her wandering
ways.

1 Charlie is out,' she added, ' buying a
saddle or something. He has also gone to
see the doctor to show his arm, which is as
strong* as the other now. I will leave a

note for him, in case he should come in
when I am out.'

An hour after the receipt of Winyard's
telegram, Colonel Wright was at Charing
Cross Station. Shortly before the departure
of his train, Mrs. Mistley and Lena arrived,
accompanied by Adonis, who had now quite
assumed the repose of manner characterizing
a town dog.

It was arranged that if Winyard was
seriously ill he should be taken to Seymour
Street, which was quieter and more convenient
for an invalid than Bedford Place.
After a few days' rest the move to Broom-haugh
could easily be accomplished.

All this was rapidly settled, and there
were still three or four minutes to spare.
They proceeded to walk up and down the
broad platform somewhat restlessly amid the
restless throng. To Colonel Wright this
comfortable journey was nothing ; he had
secured a good seat, and there was no crowd,

yet he was not at his ease. He felt compelled
to break the silence, which was, in
reality, by no means irksome to the ladies.

There are,' he hazarded, ' many different
sorts of courage. There is that of the
soldier, which is emotional and strongly dependent
on emulation ; there is that of the
sailor, which is perhaps of a higher order,
though it is purely defensive ; he repels
danger and fights for his life. But highest
of all there is the courage that needs no
emulation, asks for none to share its dangers,
faces solitude and continuous risk with
steady intrepidity — surely this is the noblest
courage . . .'

They turned and walked towards the
engine again, Adonis meekly following with
his left ear slightly elevated and his face
expressive of dignified attention, for he loved
the sound of the Colonel's voice.

And,' continued the old soldier, with a
glance downwards at the silent women on

either side of him, both trim and straight
and gracious, though one head was clad in
soft, dry white hair — ' And there is the
wonderful courage of women who stay
behind and wait . . . but that is different.
I think . it comes to them direct from
heaven.'

When Charles Mistley called at Seymour
Street later in the morning, he was told that
Colonel Wright had suddenly left home, but
that the ladies were in.

The first person he saw on entering the
room was his mother comfortably established
with some needlework in her hands, as if she
were one of the family. Some women have
this pleasant way with them, knowing how
to settle into any household — be it in joy
or be it in sorrow — in a few minutes.

Mrs. Wright and Lena were standing near
the window studying Brads! law's ' Railway
Guide

As soon as Mrs. Mistley caught sight of

her son she rose, and advancing* towards
him, took his hand, apparently forgetting that
she had seen him only a few hours before.
The action placed her rather cleverly between
him and the two ladies, so that they could
not well see his face.

Charlie,' she said quickly, ' we have news
of Win. I left a note for you at Bedford
Place. The Colonel has gone to Vienna to
bring him home, as he is knocked up.'

The young sailor nodded his head gravely.
Then he advanced towards Mrs. Wright, and
shook hands silently with her and Lena.
He was unusually awkward that morning,
and looked very large and out of place in
the dainty, womanly room. He stroked his
chin with his strong brown hand almost nervously.


'I am glad,' he said at length; 'I am
glad !'

Then he looked round the room rather
helplessly. The chairs were ridiculously

small and frail compared to his huge frame,
and he made no attempt to sit down.

I have just bought a very good saddle,'
he said suddenly, and without any apparent
sequence of thought. ' The man is altering
it for me . I suppose I can countermand
it now.'

He smiled a little, and the ladies smiled
sympathetically. The two elder women took
an ardent interest in that saddle, just as they
would have taken an interest in Digestive
Bread or the death of Alcibiades, if Charlie
had brought the subject under their notice.

Then they talked of Vienna and the
journey there, praising the gifted Mr. Bradshaw,
and abusing the German railways,
until Charles Mistley took his temporary
leave.

He wandered down Seymour Street in an
absent-minded manner. Presently he came
upon a little black-andaman terrier sitting
upon a door-step, with its quivering spine

pressed against the immovable door. He
stopped before it, and the dog raised one
paw as if to beg him to ring the bell, setting
back its head, and looking up at him
with pretty canine coquetry. Without
thinking much of what he was doing, the
sailor raised his hand, and rang the bell ;
then he strode slowly on.

I am glad,' he murmured to himself ;
yes, I am glad !'

After walking for some distance, he drew
his watch from his pocket, and carried it for
some time in his hand, as if to have it ready
to look at as soon as he had finished with
the thought then occupying his mind. He
looked at the face of it for some moments
without seeing the time ; then he suddenly
realized what he was doing.

1 By George !' he exclaimed ; i by George !
I am in time for the alternative yet.' And,
calling a cab, he drove rapidly to the
Admiralty.

HE three ladies were again sitting"
in the drawing-room in Seymour
Street together. It was the
Monday morning. Colonel Wright had
telegraphed several times from Vienna and
other towns on the homeward journey. The
most important item in these messages had
been that, despite medical advice, Winyard
Mistley insisted upon coming home at once,
and they might be expected at eleven o'clock
on the Monday morning.

It was after eleven now. The ladies were
working with a calmness which was perhaps
slightly overdone. Adonis slept peacefully

beside Mrs. Mistley's chair, upon a corner
of her dress.

These Continental trains are invariably
late observed Mrs. Wright, glancing at the
clock upon the mantelpiece.

Yes,' was Mrs. Mistley's cheerful reply ;
we can hardly expect them yet. Colonel
Wright did wisely, I think, in suggesting
that none of us should go to the station ;
there will be noise and fuss enough without
my being there to agitate Win, and make
him pretend that he is stronger than he
really is. It is much better that Charlie
should meet them.'

'Where Charlie is,' suggested Mrs. Wright,
in a low voice, ' there will be no fuss. He
possesses the happy faculty of doing the right
thing at the right moment, without appealing
to know that he is doing it.'

Yes,' said Charlie's mother vaguely. She
was about to say something more, but checked
herself suddenly ; and spreading her work out

before her, she proceeded to smooth it outwith
deft fingers, patting it here and there,
and tugging it cornerwise. While thus
occupied, she spoke again, without looking
up, in a light conversational tone.

Do you know,' she said, ' I cannot quite
realize that Win is ill. What ailments he
has had, have always come when . he was
away . . . from me. I cannot picture to
myself how he will take it ; he has always
been so well and hearty.'

According to papa's telegram, he is
hearty still,' said Lena gaily, as she carefully
selected a thread of silk from a parti-coloured
tangle. ' He telegraphed, " Spirits high,"
which sounds like a meteorological report.'

I think Win's spirits are proof against
a good deal,' replied Mrs. Mistley, with a
glance towards Lena. It was a mere passing
peep, but the little lady saw enough to convince
her that the needle stood a very poor
chance of being threaded just then.

At this moment the sound of approaching
wheels broke upon them all. The vehicle
audibly stopped at the door, and Adonis
looked up sharply. Lena was still striving
to get the silk somewhere near the eye of
the needle.

Mrs. Mistley laid aside her work. She
tried to do it as calmly and quietly as she
could, but there was something dramatic even
in her intense self-possession. She drew ina
long uneven breath, and rose from her seat,
looking towards the door.

Adonis stood at her side with his left ear
on duty.

Already there were footsteps downstairs
in the hall. Then came a little laugh of one
voice only, and Adonis literally shrieked at
the sound of it. Like a battering-ram he
sprang at the door, endeavouring to seize
the handle in his strong teeth. He fell back
and threw himself against the wood again.
Then Mrs. Mistley opened the door.

On the threshold stood Winyard. The
Colonel's arm was round him, and he had
one hand on the old traveller's shoulder, for
he could not stand alone.

Mrs. Mistley stood on tip-toe with an
almost girlish grace, and Winyard's free arm
went round her. No one spoke a word.

Then Mrs. Wright came forward and
assisted him to a chair. As he sank into it
she stooped and kissed him.

Do not be too kind to me,' he said,
smiling. ' I am rather weak, and kindness
has been known to kill people, I believe.'

He looked up to shake hands with Lena,
and she saw that there were tears in his
eyes.

Adonis was standing on his hind-leu's, with
his fore-paws resting on the arm of the low
chair. His faithful eyes were luminous with
love, and he whined continuously with his
square chin upraised.

At this moment Charlie entered the room.

He was laden with sundry wraps and packages,
which he set down absently upon a
polished table.

The return of the prodigal he said cheerfully.
' I do wish I liked cold veal !'

This brought Mrs. Wright's thoughts back
to practical matters.

Beef-tea !' she exclaimed. ' You must
have some beef-tea or some wine !'

Winyard pointed solemnly at the Colonel.

Ask him he said ; ' I know nothing about
it. The affair has lost all interest for me.
He has taken charge of the matter. I am
not allowed to say what I like or what I
dislike — in fact, I am the bane of my own
life r

1 Beef-tea,' said Colonel Wright severely,
as he drew off his gloves. ' Yes — beef-tea.'


This was soon brought, and the whole
party stood round the sick man to see that
he consumed it.

And have you done all you wanted to do,
Win ?' asked Mrs. Mistley presently.

Oh yes !' he replied breathlessly, between
the sips. ' Won't you let me off the rest ?
I am getting down to the sediment
now !'

But Colonel Wright was not content with
this laconic account of his pupil's exploits.

He has done that and more !' he said
exultingly. ' He has done what no living
man has done before him, or could hope todo
again. He has been right through to
Peshawur and back. He has mapped out
every feasible route, noted the position of
every well, and obtained every imaginable
item of information that the officer commanding
a division could require. And that
quite outside his own diplomatic work, which
has been carried out to the letter !'

Such was the home-coming of Winy aril
Mistley.

It was only by degrees that they extracted

vol. 11. 37

from him the details of his perilous journey.
How he escaped detection by the readiness
of his wit. How, encompassed by danger,
treachery, and fanaticism on every side, he
came through it all by sheer self-reliance and
intrepidity. How he lay for months ill in a
Turcoman tent, nursed and tended by the
simple nomads. How, time after time, the
combination seemed too strong for him to
fight against, and how his good fortune
attended him to the end. But all this had
to be guessed at by his loving listeners.
The story of that unique and wonderful
journey was never fully told. Partly by
aid of their own imaginations, partly by persistent
questioning, they succeeded in putting
together a more or less connected narrative ;
but Winyard's own account was decidedly
unsatisfactory, as might well have been expected.
A man cannot tell his own story
advantageously. There was no one else to
tell the tale of Winyard Mistley's achievement,

and so it was never told. Far away,
on the sands of the Khiva desert, out of
the caravan route, in a trackless waste untrodden
by the foot of man for years
together, a few whitened bones, picked clean
and scattered by the quarrelling vultures,
lay beneath the gleaming sun, waiting the
end of all things. This, and nothing more,
was what remained of the young Englishman's
daring companion during the greater
part of his wonderful journey, and the story
of it lay silent with those bones.

But if the record of the work was lost,
the fruits were well preserved, and among
these the Colonel spent many a busy day.
The news of Winyard's return soon spread
among the initiated, and the house in Sey-mour
Street was besieged by visitors. The
results of the journey were, however, kept
strictly secret, only the Colonel and a few
experts being allowed to assist the invalid
in the work of putting them in order. Soon,

37—2

however, the news leaked out, and questions
were asked in Parliament, with the result of
acquainting Russia with the fact that she
had been beaten in her own favourite pastime
of Eastern diplomacy. Article after article
appeared in the Moscow papers, calling for
further investigation into the carelessness of
the avowed Russian agents in Afghanistan,
who could give no details of the passage of
this dangerous traveller through their midst.
These writings, hot from the brain of one
who, even as these lines are penned, is being
mourned by the nation he served so well
with pen and press, were issued with the
view of learning more of the results of Win-yard
Mistley's observations ; but in this
object they failed. All that the world learnt
was that the journey had been accomplished,
whether alone or with companions, whether
hasty and superficial or slow and searching,
never transpired.

Day by day Winyard regained his strength,

and the lines upon his face — lines speaking
of hardship, hunger, thirst, and anxiety —
began to disappear. They never quite left
him, however, but remained there, signs of
age upon a young face — silent testimonies
of forgotten sufferings. His appearance had,
at first, been rather a shock to all who remembered
him as he was in former days.
He was not pale, but the dull brownness of
his face seemed only to accentuate the drawn
and weary expression of his features ; through
all, however, and even when he could not
stand unsupported, the brave strong look
never left his eyes.

It may have been by sheer force of will,
but his boyish cheerfulness was as reliable as
of old. He laughed at his own weakness
and incapacity to walk alone ; yet his laughter
failed to detract from the pathos of the picture
afforded by the Colonel assisting him to move
about. He laughed at his own childish helplessness
in the matter of cutting up his food,

and audaciously handed his plate to Lena for
assistance.

Altogether he was the most unsatisfactory
convalescent imaginable, except that he made
visible and rapid strides towards health.
There was no demand for lowered tones and
noiseless movements in his presence. Inquiries
after his welfare were treated jocosely,
and unless the medicine was administered
with severity and regularity, he was only
too ready to forget all about it.

FEW days after Winyard Mistley's
return to London, his brother
Charlie went to Davenport. From
there he wrote that he had been offered the
White Swallow gunboat, destined for service
in the Pacific Ocean. ' Of course I have
accepted,' he wrote ; and gave no particulars
as to when the White Sivalloiv was likely to
sail, and of what duration her absence from
England would probably be.

Mrs. Mistley, who was now established at
Seymour Street previous to a move northward
to Broomhaugh, received the letter at
the breakfast-table. She read part of it

aloud, and as she folded it again, gave a little
sigh of resignation.

Such it is,' she said, ' to be the mother
of a sailor and a soldier. They play Box
and Cox to the end of the chapter. However,
I suppose Charlie is to be congratulated.
He is young to have command of a
gunboat.'

With all his assumed laziness,' observed
the Colonel gravely, ' Charlie will push his
way upwards, through the ruck. He is a
fine sailor, I am sure.'

That same afternoon Mrs. Mistley and
Mrs. Wright went out together, in order,
they said, to have a quiet afternoon's shopping,
as there were many things to be
purchased and sent on to Broomhaugh. The
mother and son had been nearly a week
in Seymour Street, and there was now
nothing to delay their departure for the
north.

The Colonel, being left in charge of the

invalid, proposed a drive in the Park, as the
air was lovely and the sun not too warm.
But Winyard languidly expressed a fear that
he was not quite up to it, innocently ignoring
the fact that he had walked downstairs alone
that morning. Then he lay back on his sofa
and gently closed his eyes, as if composing
himself to peaceful slumber.

Presently the Colonel left the room,
treading noiselessly so as to avoid waking
the sleeper. Shortly afterwards, the street-door
closed with a smothered bang.

Lena was seated. on a low chair near the
window, the regular click of her needle
acting as a lullaby to the sufferer. Soon,
however, Winyard slowly unclosed one eye,
then the other. The click of the needle
continued. He turned slightly, and lay there
watching her. He could scarcely have
wished for a pleasant picture to look upon
than that fair English maiden, sitting with
daintily bowed head and busy fingers — ' on

duty,' as it were — quietly fulfilling her
woman's mission. Like his brother, he
noticed then that Lena was no longer the
thoughtless merry girl whom he had known
two years before. The same brave cheeriness
was there, but it was less liable to the
influence of circumstances ; the same healthy
power of enjoyment, but it was tempered by
a greater thoughtfulness. Something in the
curve of her closed lips, something perhaps
in a newly acquired droop of the eyelids, reminded
him of the bravest woman he had
ever known ; of one who, widowed, and the
mother of wandering sons, had yet made her
life a bright one, and by seeking to make
others happy, had acquired the habit of
happiness herself. What pen could hope to
follow the thoughts passing through a man's
brain ? Winyard Mistley lay watching Lena
for about five minutes, but five pages of
mine could not tell a tithe of what was passing
in his mind.

Presently he rose gravely from the sofa,
and stood for a moment by the mantelpiece,
supporting himself with both hands. His
back was turned towards Lena, and on the
lean brown face reflected in the mirror — at
which, however, he never glanced — there was
a strange restless expression.

Contrary to her custom, Lena failed to
look up. She did not even ask him if there
was anything he might require. Then he
slowly turned, and made his laborious way
across the room, assisting himself with one
piece of furniture after another. Somehow
she forgot to offer him her help ; somehow
he had no little pleasantry ready to make
her smile ; and yet neither seemed to notice
the difference. She continued her work (the
stitches were unpicked later on, being of
very peculiar construction), and Mistley
stood close at hand, looking down upon her
bent head.

There was a humble chair at her side.

and into this he lowered himself cautiously,
after the manner of an old man.

Lena he said, turning towards her with
a hungering look in his eyes ; ' Lena, do you
think that a man can be sure of his own
mind, if the same thought has never left it
for nearly two years V

She bowed her head lower over her work,
still striving to make the needle perform
its right and proper function, but answered
him no word.

He leant forward and took the work
from her hands, allowing it to fall to the
ground. Then he quietly took possession
of those busy fingers.

1 Answer me,' he whispered. ' Answer me !'

Yes . I think so,' she replied at
length.

Through it all,' he said eagerly —
through danger and through hope, through
work, through sleep, through hunger, sickness
and success — there has been one thought

in my brain. That thought . . . was . . .
Lena — Lena . . . Lena !'

Still bending over her imprisoned hands,
she swayed unconsciously towards him.
Then, somehow, he found his arms were
round her, though he had no recollection of
placing them there.

.it. *V--A/, J/,

'TV *7S" W -7?

Three weeks later, one afternoon as the
sun began to throw a golden ray from west
to east up the English Channel, a gunboat
moved out into Plymouth Sound, and cast
her anchor there. The White Swallow was
ready for sea — ' ready for anything,' her
young commander said. Deeply laden with
coal for her long voyage, she was as taut,
and trim, and sparkling as paint and polished
brass could make her.

Already the strong individuality of the
stalwart ruler was beginning to make itself
discernible among the members of her
company. The WJdte Sivcdlow was eminently

a ' quiet ' ship. There was no shouting,
no unnecessary blowing of boatswain's
whistles. Everything seemed to fit into its
place — every man into his duties. And yet
she was not a gloomy ship, for every man
looked forward to his six years' absence with
serenity.

About an hour before she was due to
sail, a boat put off from the Dockyard, and ina
few minutes was alongside the gunboat.
Seated in the stern of this small craft was
Laurance Lowe. He climbed up the white
ladder, and made his way aft with slow but
assured steps. Charles Mistley came forward
to meet him, and they turned towards
the quarter-deck together.

It is very good of you to come.' said the
young sailor.

The old man did not appear to consider
that this required an answer. He looked
round him critically with a practised eye.
It was not the first time that he had trodden

the deck of a man-of-war, though his recollections
of such dated back to the days of
the Crimea. He loosened the old silk comforter
that took the place of a top-coat on
his spare frame, and said :

You are ready V

Yes, we sail in half an hour.'

The young sailor looked across the smooth
water to where the land rose gently, green
and tree-clad, towards the blue heights of
Dartmoor. There was no shadow of fear in
his clear eyes, no sign of flinching from the
dreary years he knew he was facing. And
thus they stood side by side, the old man
whose voyage across the troubled sea was
nearly over (he had made bad weather of it,
beating up against a head wind all the way),
and the young sailor — tall, stalwart, and
almost painfully self-contained — who, like his
companion, had met the stress at the very
beginning of his journey.

They talked a little in their usual scrappy,

unsatisfactory manner, and then Laurance
Lowe beckoned to his boatman to haul upto
the ladder.

He turned, and looked round the vessel
once more ; then he raised his solemn eyes to
his companion's face. They were unusually
wide open, and Charlie noted the pale blueness
of the iris as he returned their gaze.

I suppose,' said the old man slowly, ' I
suppose ' — and with a wave of his lean hand
he designated the vessel — ' that you have
got the object of your ambition now.'

He finished his sentence with the shadow
of a smile, which could only be seen in his
eyes, for it did not move the white moustache
or narrow beard.

Charlie did not reply at once. He turned
to take some letters from the hand of a
quarter-master, and waited till the man had
left the quarter-deck before answering his
companion's vague question.

I think,' he said at last, ' that a man has

two objects in his life. At least it is . . . it
was . so with me.'

Laurance Lowe waited silently for him to
continue.

Charlie looked round his vessel almost
critically.

This is one,' he said.

Yes,' murmured Lowe, standing in front
of him, and looking up into his motionless
face with lifeless eyes.

And the other . . .' continued the sailor,
slowly meeting his gaze. ' And the other
I think you know what the other . . .
was.'

Yes,' said Lowe softly, as he held out
his hand to say farewell. ' Yes . I know.
With me . it was her mother.'

THE END.

BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford

S. JL- H.

MG Ml ST LEY

mam

mim

^^H

PHHirai

ra^H^

Pi

mom



STLEY

Vol.IT.

Bentley,

Wsm

H

mm

3 0112 041770360
