LITERATURE.

is not often that I have asked one."

•' You may be very sure I will, Donald, if it be
in my power," answered bis master, though more
than suspecting what was coming, for the noun nt
was indifferently chosen for asking ordinary
favours

•' Well, Glenconan, it is just this, You and
your father before you have done even thing forme
and mine ; and if I bare the snug bit healing
down the glen, and the bic money in the back at
Dingwall, it all comes of the kindness cf the
family. And if it was money you were n reading—
or Miss Grace either, "where he sank his voice to a
barely audible whisper, — ,: you'll take what I have,
whatever— will you not, now ? " And to Donald
the sum in the Dingwall bank seem: d no income
miserable fortune,

The laird almost laughed,'thougb he was much
more inclined to weep. He was as much of a
gentleman as Donald, and nothing would have
indued him to refuse outright. At the same time
,he promised and vowed to himself, tha 1 ; if ever the
sunbeams should shine again on his side of the
brae, Donald and the old mother should bask in
their warmth. Now, neither the presence of the
gallia nor the apprehension of hs secret getting,
wind, prevented him from grasping Donald's horny
calm in bis own.

We mean talk about all that later, Donald, if
you please. I must wait for the present till 1 see
my way a bit. But be euro that there is not one of
all my* friends to whom I would apply for assistance
sooner ; meanwhile, and for the last time, nota
word of all this to my daughter."

"Donald nodded intelligence ; and withdrew in a
state of intense glorification, which for the moment
made him almost forgetful of his master's troubles.
Glenconan had squeezed his hand, and turned
towards him in adversity. Glenconan had a? good
as promised to take bis money if he needed it.
Glenconan, in short, had treated him more than
ever as a friend ; and Donald would have liked, as
the assassin >n the Border ballad, to be ' hackit in
pieces sraa',' by way of showing bis gratitude.
Indeed, all through, the brave Highlander is
drawn to the life. It sbou'd be added that the
novel, wbiob. is very hand onely issued — paper,
type, and binding being exc lh-ni — was published
previously in Blackwood's Magazine.

jo > weomo pnipem eq, J0 euo 'Ague 2 %K noir an '
pno* ,uamaa9A0 O eq , w ^ x U« ?q Pine*

SZ™./ 00 ]™ /a0A « ™* WI-aoi^indod eq\

-iJT

TpSfcp£

4-



For man is man, and master of his fate."

Aeneid.

A NO VEL

BY

ALEX. INNES Hand

AUTHOR OF
AGAINST TIME,' 'LETTERS FROM WEST IRELAND,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCOCLXXXVT

CONTENTS OF THE First VOLUME.

CHAP.

I. A HIGHLAND Home-coming,

II. A Break-neck SHOOTING EXPEDITION.

III. " YOURS FOR LIFE OR DEATH,"

IV. A PLEASANT SURPRISE,

V. COUSINLY AFFECTIONS,

VI. AN EMBARRASSING INTERVIEW,

VII. STIRRING UP OF STRIFE,

VIII. A MEETING AT THE CROSS-TRACKS,

IX. THE SHIPWRECK,

X. A HIGHLAND TRAGEDY,

XI. THE HON. WILFRED Instance,

XII. MR Enables's FIRST COUP,

XIII. MORAY GOES INTO THE CONFESSIONAL,

XIV. MR AND MISS MORAY " COME OUT,"
%

«\ XV. Enables AND LESLIE TALK THINGS OVER,

































Chapter I.
A HIGHLAND Home-coming.

First-class travellers are rare in the month
of June on the western and wilder section of
the Great West of Scotland Railway. The
season of tourists is not yet ; and sportsmen
seldom begin to straggle northwards before
the second week of August. Through three-fourths
of the year the Company must rely for
dividends or debenture interest on its goods
traffic — carrying cattle and sheep, herring-barrels,
and wire-fencing, with miscellaneous
trifles of the kind. As for Auchnadarroch
station, which is situated at the head of
vol. i. . a

Stratford, the station-master, metaphorically
as well as physically, is one of the biggest
men in the north country. Dressed in a deal
of brief authority, he has the satisfaction of
patronising the country-folks who travel by
the trains ; he is toadied in the summer by
innocent Cockneys, helplessly eager for direction
and advice ; and he may simultaneously
indulge his indolence and fussiness by
managing to make an infinite ado about
nothing. Save a lonely shooting - lodge or
two, a couple of manses, and the residence
of Glenconan, there is nothing in the shape
of a gentleman's house within a radius of
some score of miles ; and although the
"MacTavish Arms and Posting Establishment"
stands within a short gunshot of the
station, in those opening days of June it has
barely taken down its shutters.

So it was all the stranger that, one bright
afternoon in June, the station should be the
scene of unwonted excitement. The platform,
usually left to be cleansed by the rains and
winds, was swept and garnished; the porter
had taken his hands out of the pockets of his
corduroys ; the station-master was standing at

attention, and in close conversation with an
elderly Highlander in homespun ; while the
smoke of the train was visible in the middle-distance,
as it came sobbing and puffing up
the stiff incline. The cause of the excitement
might be explained by a carriage that had
pulled up on the shingle sweep before the
pine-built porch of the little booking-office.
It was a waggonette of teak, with a pair of
smart chestnut cobs — one and the other
strong, low, and serviceable ; while the 
driver had a certain style about him
that savoured rather of the Parks and Piccadilly
than of Loss-shire.

"And as I was saying to you, Mr Ferguson,"
drawled the Highlander in homespun,
"this will be a great day for Glenconan."

"I do not doubt it, Mr Boss — I do not
doubt it," replied the other, motioning away
with an affable wave of the arm the tender of
the Highlander's snuff-mull. He was excited,
and could not help showing it, though he
prided himself on the serenity of his deportment.
We do what we can ; but man's powers are
limited, and we must have resident proprietors
if we are to develop the local traffic."

Donald Ross rumpled up his shaggy eyebrows.
He was a fine specimen of the elderly
hillman — as tall as the station-master, and far
more muscular. Hard-looking and weatherbeaten,
he seemed to have worked away, ina
long life among the hills, all superabundant
flesh from his bone and sinew. Though his
Saxon was serviceable, like the cobs, he was
not strong in it ; he failed to catch the meaning
of the station-master, and he struck back
into his own line of thought.

"Ay, more resident gentlemen, as you were
saying, will be a great thing ; and it will bea
great thing for Glenconan when we have
one of the ' Glencora ' among us again.
I'm thinking he will be turning Corryvreckan
and Glencoe into deer ; and 'deed these shep-herdsmen
are just one of the plagues of Egypt
that the minister would be speaking about the
former Sabbath-day."

Meanwhile the train was approaching, and
at last it drew up at the platform. Three
gentlemen got out of a first-class carriage.
The station-master received them cap in hand,
with an obsequiousness significant of the
solemnity of the occasion. As for Donald,

he slightly lifted his deer-stalker bonnet, and
pulled shyly at a grizzled forelock ; but his
grey eyes gleamed with such a soft satisfaction
as you may see in a friendly collie gratified
by the home-coming of his master.

The foremost of the three, who naturally
took the lead, was a hale veteran of about
sixty or somewhat more, cast very much in
the manly mould of the keeper. His dress
was almost as rough, though carefully put
on ; but there was no possibility of mistaking
him for anything but a gentleman : and if his
face was beaming with excitement and good-humour,
he was nevertheless the sort of man
you would have been sorry to quarrel with.
There was energy of purpose in the features,
that were high and even harsh, as in the flash
of the keen grey eyes ; with a touch of sarcastic
resolution about the corners of the firm
mouth. His companions, who kept themselves
modestly in the background, were boys
in comparison. One of them might have
come of age a year or two before ; the other
was some half-dozen years his senior.

The elderly gentleman acknowledged the
salutation of the station-master with a nod.

and a quick look that seemed to read the man
through and dispose of him. But his greeting
to Donald was cordiality itself as he held out
the muscular hand, which the other evidently
had expected.

"And so you're here, are you, Mr Eoss, instead
of upon Funachan ; and this is the way
you've been looking after the deer in my absence."


Donald grinned a width of welcome like the
breaking of a blaze of sunshine after a thunderstorm
over the waters of the neighbouring
Lochconan.

"And 'deed it was very little of the deer
that I was thinking of to-day, Glenconan, —
though I might possibly have been speaking
of them to the station-master here," he added,
conscientiously. "And it's a pity but there
was your piper to give you your welcome ; but
Peter has been palsied since the Martinmas
before last — and short in the wind, moreover.
And how have you been keeping, sir ; and how
was Miss Grace ? "

Exceedingly well, and all the better for
the thought of coming home. I can answer
for myself, and I can answer for her too. As

for Miss Grace, you will see her here in a few
clays, and then she can speak for herself,
which she is very well able to do. And
now, Donald, lend a hand with the luggage,
will you ? I long to be off, and up
the glen."

As for the luggage, it was light enough.
The heavy baggage had been forwarded a few
days before. In the twinkling of an eye the
waggonette was packed ; the porter, exulting
over a generous tip, was looking forward to
a pleasant evening in the bar of the "Mac-ravish
Arms "; and Donald sat perched beside
the stylish coachman, watching the start of the
impatient cobs.

There are few finer drives in the picturesque
Western Highlands than that down the
broad strath of the Bran and up the romantic
valley of the tributary Conan. The comparatively
open character of the pastoral scenery
in the former valley is a fitting approach to
the more gloomy grandeur of the other. Dipping
into Stratford, after some of the more
savage landscapes through which you have
passed in the train, you might pronounce the
country almost tame. The river meanders

among gently sloping green hills, strewed
here and there with stones, and crested with
heather. From the level of the carriage-road
you seldom catch a glimpse of the towering
summits of any of the noble giants in the
background ; but at the " meeting of the
waters," where the Conan joins the Bran,
the scenery changes its character altogether.
Entering the side-gorge, where the shadows
gather even at noon, we leave softness and
light for sternness and desolation. The swift
black rush of the Conan, which has been pent
for a space between beetling cliffs, pitches
itself in the exuberance of sudden release over
a brawling and foaming waterfall. The eddies
of the deep dark pool below confound themselves
with the reflected blackness of interlacing
fir-boughs. As for the road, it has
been roughly yet shrewdly engineered along
the sloping ledges of the cliffs that hang
between the hills and the river. It is a safe
enough ascent, for the gradients are broad
though steep, but a dangerous place to drive
down under any circumstances ; for it is only
fenced on the river-side by an occasional upright
stone in the Alpine fashion, and its

gravel is apt to be washed and mined by the
side-rills flowing across it from a succession of
trickling cascades.

The elder of the two young men had never
visited the glen before. In silent admiration,
with a rapt look in his soft hazel eyes, he
hung over the side of the waggonette as it
swayed slightly towards the Conan, and gazed
down into the depths of the abyss. The
elderly gentleman, who sat by him on the
front seat, drew long breaths of profound
satisfaction ; and yet the very next moment
you would have said that his face had slightly
clouded. At least so it seemed to strike the
youngest of the three, whose quick eyes, that
caught everything above and below, were
suddenly attracted by the other, and watched
him curiously. Not for long, however. If he
thought his host had an abiding care, that
must only have been a foolish fancy ; and
what, indeed, could be more improbable ?

David Moray, the lord of those barren grandeurs
of Grlenconan, was at last realising the
cherished dream of his life. He was returning
a rich man to the paternal property, which he
had only visited at rare intervals since he

inherited it ; and to the shootings, which had
been leased till last year to a Southern banker.
Now he might hope to end his days there in
peace, if the dregs of life would only run
kindly. He was a sportsman born : he had
come back to a paradise of sport ; and though
his life had been passed in tropical climates,
he was as hale and sound of constitution as
any man of his years could hope to be.

He could be a boy still, in the light exuberance
of his spirits ; and nothing keeps a man
so fresh as perennial boyhood. If he had been
coming home to Grlenconan, as he used to
come, for the holidays, he could hardly have
thrown himself more heartily into the happy
excitement of the hour. As the road extricated
itself from the bosky entanglements of
the shaggy gorges, and swept down into a
smiling stretch of mountain-meadows, he stood
up in the carriage, though sorely puzzled to
keep his feet ; for the waggonette, as it dashed
downwards with locked wheels, was rocking
about like a boat among the lake billows in a
fresh north-easter. But it was not for nothing
that Moray had so often taken the Overland
route, to say nothing of weathering the Cape.

And now that he was fairly and finally ,
in the " kent face " of each peak
and ridge he saw the features of some familiar
friend of his childhood.

Fine weather tomorrow, Donald, though
of course that old glass of yours is at ' stormy'
as usual ; for there is the cloud-belt on the
sides of Funachan : had the hill been wearing
his night-cap, it would have been another
matter altogether. I say, Jack, do you see
that purple patch on the shoulder — there,
away to the right of the gap, and just over
the birch-stump ? — you should have been with
me the last evening I shot there with my
tenant, when we found the coveys lying like
stones, though they had been wild as hawks
elsewhere all through the day. Please the
Fates, we'll have bloodshed there in August.
And when you go out for sketches, what do
you think of that for a subject? — the pool, I
mean, with the grey rock, like a chapel-gable
rising out of the water. And if Leslie . is
looking for a spot where he may indulge
himself in dreaming and poetry, that bank of
bracken under the birches there ought to suit
him down to the ground — if we dare to talk

of ground, indeed, in connection with any
scene so ethereal."

In the further miles of unmeasured Highland
road that led on to the old house of
G-lenconan, the face and spirits of its lord
and master seemed to answer to the changes
of the weather and the scenery. It was a fine
day — a very fine day ; but there were a few
fleecy and drifting clouds flitting occasionally
across the heavens, and now and again some
jutting angle of rock would cast a streak of
blackness across the brightness of the road.
So Moray's face would from time to time be
shadowed by some darker or sadder thought,
which seemed barely to touch it in passing.
But when the waggonette pulled up before
the door of the mansion, he was the kindly
Highland host, overflowing with hospitality
and natural pride in an ancestral seat, standing
on a site which had been the home of his
family for generations.

The house of Glenconan was plain and
unpretending enough, and yet its surroundings
gave it infinite charm. The feudal, or
rather the patriarchal keep, had been blown
up in the "'45" with certain spare powder-casks

that were embarrassing the march of the
"red soldiers," although its foundations were
still to be seen on an adjacent knoll, overgrown
with the ground-ivy struggling through
the thick beds of bracken. As for the modern
mansion, as we said, it was neither imposing
nor very commodious ; although it ran to
a considerable number of small bedrooms and
garrets, which seemed to have been elbowed
aside by the rambling passages. It was built
in the modern medieval Scottish fashion, with
a couple of receding wings, connected with the
main body or corps de logis by semicircular
corridors. It was whitewashed, or "hailed,"
as they say in the North ; and its staring and
sadly expressionless face was toned down by
neither creepers nor climbers. But then the
situation was simply enchanting. It stood
on a gentle slope, facing towards the sunny
quarter of the south-west. Before it, lawns of
the richest and softest green, watered by the
rain-storms and the perpetual flying showers,
ran down to Lochconan. And the lake lay
sparkling like a gem in its mountain - setting,
changing colours with the changing hues of
the sky, from sapphire to emerald, and from

emerald to black onyx. Around three-fourths
of its broken circumference the little loch was
girdled by swelling knolls — winding bays receded
till they were lost to sight among oaks,
and pines, and the copses of weeping birches.
On the opposite shore was a wall of sheer
precipice, where a pair of peregrine falcons
had nested from time immemorial, in an
inaccessible rift far above among the rocks.
When letting the shootings, there had always
been an understanding that these old friends
of the family were to be sacred from the gun.
But the great feature of Lochconan was its
heronry, on the haunted isle of St Glean.
The sainted missionary, who was said to have
dipped hundreds of pagan Celts in the waters
of his blessed spring, had subsequently received
the crown of martyrdom at the hands
of his ungrateful proselytes. Since then he
had been in the habit of " walking " to a surprising
extent — considering that his life during
his latter years had been sedentary. Nota
man in Glenconan or the adjoining parishes
would have set foot upon the island for all the
world after dusk. It may be that the silvery
forms of the birds, floating ghost-like in the

gloaming through the stems of the larches, had
something to do with the perpetuation of the
legend. And a pretty kind of poetry they
added to the loch, in the presence of their silent,
shadowy shapes, standing motionless but
wide-awake in the shallows through the day,
on the look-out for unwary trout or minnows.
Behind the house and the kennels the
ground rose rapidly. The steep home-paddock,
where the shaggy shooting-ponies ran
loose, were skirted by shrubberies of evergreens,
backed up by thickets of pine ; and as
the heather shot up through the rough herbage,
so the green of the enclosures and the lower
hills was studded with rich masses of purple.
Roughly traced paths, softly carpeted here
and there by the thick fall of the fir-needles,
wound through the columns of the firs, or lost
themselves among the birch clumps and the
alder thickets. Thence they emerged on the
barer steeps above, where they zigzagged upwards
from side to side across the rocky beds
of a couple of mountain brooks — streamlets or
torrents according to the weather. And each
of the light rustic bridges — each tiny bit of
jutting cliff projecting through the trailing

and gnarled fir-roots — seemed to open some
new and enchanting point of view up to
the cloudland that capped the confusion of
mountains.

But more than enough of description for
the time, though, if I have bored my readers,
the memories of Glenconan are my best excuse.
Strolling about before dinner, Moray
did the honours of the place to his young
friends ; and if eloquent admiration be the
sincerest flattery, he had no reason to be
dissatisfied. Though the Highland air had
sharpened their appetites, he had to remind
them, more than once, that it was high time
to dress. Leslie, who was naturally rather
taciturn, said little ; but he lingered as if
loath to tear himself away from the scenes
where each changing impression seemed invariably
a change for the better. As for Jack
Enables, he jumped about like a young
chamois, in the sheer exuberance of his animal
spirits, at the risk of a broken neck, or, at
all events, of a sprained ankle. And his gay
exhilaration gratified the older man far more
than the self-contained appreciation of the
other. Moray had a fellow-feeling for the

headlong nature which would be doing or
even suffering rather than be still.

It was to Enables that he turned more
naturally during the dinner, if he showed
himself more ceremoniously hospitable to
Leslie. But after all, they got on very well
together ; and when the cloth was removed
in the good old fashion, and the decanters
placed on the polished mahogany, it would
have been hard to find three happier gentlemen
anywhere between the Solway Firth
and the Shetland Isles.

I like your dining-room, sir, almost as
much as your hills," remarked Mr Enables,
surveying the former serenely over a bumper
of claret ; " and you'll agree with me, that is
saying a good deal in its favour."

Mr Moray did agree, and smiled complacently.
Indeed Jack Enables could hardly
have been suspected of flattery, and connoisseurs
in very various styles of art might
have expressed unmitigated approval. The
room was unpretentious like the house — long,
out of proportion to its breadth, and by no
means lofty. But it had been turned into
such a sylvan hall as might have suited the

VOL. I. b

retreat of a Lord of the Isles or a Lady of the
Lake. The trophies of the chase that profusely
adorned the vestibule had overflowed
into the dining-room. The walls were adorned
with noble stags' heads, interspersed with
those of roe-deer and grinning wild-cats. To
each was attached a brief obituary notice,
and the inscriptions dated back for a couple
of generations and more. Even tenants of
the Glenconan shootings had taken a pride in
leaving some of the choicest of their spoils
near the scenes where they had won them —
the more so that each of the sportsmen left his
name as well as a memory behind him. The
golden eagle was setting in aerial dance to the
osprey, which spread her wings in act to soar
above the sideboard ; and beneath these, a
grizzled badger was snarling at an otter about
to take a header off a moss - grown ledge.
There were trout and salmon rods, and racks
for guns and rifles in the corners, and a fair
show of somewhat grim family portraits to
boot. So far, the decorations, though you
certainly could not call them commonplace,
were what might have been seen in any
Highland gentleman's halls. But then, byway

of contrast, there glittered on the sideboard
a mixed service of massive and curious
plate — wine - coolers, tankards, salvers, and
epergnes, of many dates and countries, and of
the most artistic workmanship ; for Moray
had a fancy that way, and his fancies had
generally been gratified. A century and a
half before, the mere rumour of so much portable
wealth would have set all the clansmen
and veterans by the ears between Lome and
Lochaber.

Jack Enables looked about him and went
on : "I like the silver, I must say, even more
than the stags' heads. There now ! I was sure
I should startle you both ; but you need not
look so scandalised, my dear Leslie. I'm not
altogether so covetous as you might suppose,
and a man may admire those magnificently
chased salt-cellars, for example, without having
the soul either of a pawnbroker or of a Benevento
Cellini. But I like them chiefly for
all they mean. Had Glenconan lived his life
in his native glen, we should have seen nothing
on his walls save the antlers and his ancestors.
Moreover, I may venture to remark, parenthetically,
that I doubt whether we should have

had Lafitte like this on the table. Now stalking
deer in Glenconan is grand sport in its
way ; but to be content with that, we should
be born to the ambition, like Donald the
keeper. The tankards, &c, are the veritable
trophies that are worth the winning ; for they
mean energy and adventure, and the excitement
of success — the only things that make
life worth the living. If I know myself, I'm
nothing of a visionary : I believe in the blessings
of riches, and realise their anxieties too,
as much as anybody ; but I should be sorry all
the same to have been born to a fortune — to
a great fortune, that is to say. Of course 1
should go steadier as well as quicker if I had
a certain amount of bullion to ballast me.
Now all that silver means to me the romance
of an extremely agreeable existence. Our
Uncle Moray there has had far more than his
fair share of success and fun ; and if he died
tomorrow, he has every reason to be contented.
There are not many men who have
had the luck to find their way to wealth
through jungles and spice-gardens — through
cordons of Chinese junks and fleets of Malay
pross. Why, even in the way of recreation

and sport, tiger-shooting must be decidedly
preferable to deer-stalking, though it is fortunate
that Donald does not hear me blaspheming.
But hit or miss, lose or win, you
may depend upon it, Master Leslie, that excitement
is everything, or pretty nearly so.
Whether we are to carry off the stakes or no,
at least we are sure of the pleasures of the
game."

Leslie smiled good - humoured at his
companion's long-winded rhapsody. As for
Moray, though the young man had merely
spoken in the light exhilaration of a restless
and generous spirit, had he laid himself out
to flatter and please his senior, he could hardly
have succeeded more thoroughly. Moray
had himself been ardent and enthusiastic,
though with an eminently practical bent of
mind and a resolute determination of purpose.
He, too, had delighted in adventure in his
time, and the ancient fires were still glowing
in their ashes. He had loved bold speculations
for their own sake — and the better that
there was a spice of danger in them. And
besides that, there was something in Enables's
careless talk, in the readiness to

welcome trials which might turn to temptations,
that helped to reconcile himself to his
past, and to soothe certain doubts and regrets
which had been casting their shadows across
his happiness. It pleased him, too, to remember
that money meant power — that he could
give his sprightly young nephew the helping
hand he wanted ; and, moreover, other vague
ideas regarding him began to take form and
consistency. The faculty of reading the
minds of other men is a gift that might be
fatal or helpful, according to circumstances or
temperaments. It is certain, at least, that it
would work a social revolution, and upset all
the existing arrangements of Providence. As
it was, Mr Enables had been rattling on in
utter heedlessness, and he never guessed how
far his chatter might have a grave influence,
on his fortunes. And so the three, after a
pleasant evening, went to bed, unconscious of
all that was meant to them by that merry
meeting at Glenconan.

Chapter II.

A Break-neck SHOOTING EXPEDITION.

We say emphatically that June is the most
enjoyable month in the Highlands, always
supposing the weather to be conformable.
And Highland weather is so capricious, that
we may be lucky when we least expect it.
There is no shooting in June — there is no
deer - stalking. But then the fishing of all
kinds should be in its very prime, which gives
you a pretext for enjoying the glories of the
scenery. The trees are in the freshest richness
of their foliage ; the grass is enamelled
by the early wild-flowers ; the bilberries, the
cranberries, the cranberries, and many other
berries, are putting out their brightest shoots ;
the bracken is bursting forth among the first
bells of the foxgloves, — and as both of Glenconan's
guests, in their different ways, were

keen and even passionate admirers of nature,
they never found the time hang heavy on
their hands. Moray was vexed at the arrival
of his daughter being delayed, owing to the
indisposition of the lady who was to be her
chaperon as far as Perth. But the young men
were comparatively indifferent to the advent
of the heiress, and only expressed a decent
amount of sympathy. To tell the truth, being
very happy as they were, they philosophically
dreaded any change in the habits of the establishment.
They did as they pleased ; they
went abroad when they liked ; and though the
dinner was a movable feast, depending on the
hour of their return, the cook might be relied
upon to come satisfactorily to time, independently
of the hands of the clock. What with
his fishing - rod and his sketch - book, Jack
Enables could always make himself thoroughly
contented. When the trout were rising
freely, his basket filled rapidly : he could casta
fly to the approval of Donald himself, and
under the tuition of that skilful veteran he
was rapidly being initiated in the special mysteries
of mountain sport. When the trout
were in no mood to take, whether in the loch,

in the wavelets, or in the streams, he seldom
cared to persevere, and fell back on his brushes
and colour-box. Excitement in one shape or
another was everything to him. He had a
rare facility of touch, a wonderful instinct for
colour ; and the excitement he found in the
ever-changing lights and scenes was unfailing.
He was as happy in transferring a landscape
bathed in sunshine and flecked with shadows
to his block, as in switching the small brown
trout over his shoulder ; and his pulses beat
nearly as quick to the lurid glories of a thundery
sunset, as when running a Salmon ferox on
his trolling-rod where the lake broke away
into the rapids.

As for Leslie, he took his pleasures more
contemplatively, though not more sadly. In
rallying him about his love for poetry, Moray
had touched his strength or his weakness. He
was a born poet, in perpetual sympathy with
the poetical sides of things, though, so far as
the world knew, his poetry had hitherto found
no expression. He might be born for great
things, or he might have been born to dream
away remarkable talents. In the meantime,
he could make himself placidly happy among

the scenes which brought the exhilaration of
enjoyment to his companion. No one could
deny that there was a great deal in him.
Not only had he had a distinguished career
at the university, but he could generally say
the right thing at the right moment, though
his remark might be somewhat slow of
coming : if he would hang over a repartee,
it seldom missed fire, and there was pretty
sure to be a playful snap in it when it did
come. Nevertheless, superficial observers of
natures anti pathetical to his own might have
set him down for a muff or a prig, especially if
they had made his acquaintance in Highland
shooting-quarters. He rarely handled a gun
himself, though he liked to follow a shooting-party.
Made very much after the fashion of
a young Henry VIII. , his somewhat bulky
and cumbrous person would have adapted
itself with difficulty to the inequalities of
difficult ground in following out an awkward
stalk ; and when he did essay to throw a fly,
his line was apt to fall in coils upon the water.
Conscious of his own shortcomings, he neither
cared to correct them nor to court failure.
But he would lie on the bank for hours, watching

Enables at work, his handsome features
flushing over a struggle and a success ; while
in the intervals the thoughts that were wandering
far away found ample occupation for
his fertile fancy.

But a day came, in the second week of their
sojourn, when the mercurial Enables felt
bored, and he did not scruple to confess it.
The fine weather had broken ; leaden clouds
lay heavy on the bosom of Lochconan, veiling
the view of the opposite cliffs. The rapid fall
of the barometer gave warning of a violent
storm, though, as the fall had been sudden,
the storm might be a passing one. As the
little party were seated at breakfast, a peal of
thunder seemed to burst among the chimney-pots
and shake the room. Then discharge
followed discharge in swift succession. The
clouds were rent by the vivid flashes of the
forked lightning ; the rain came down in torrents,
the big drops plumping in the sullen
waters of the lake like showers of lead sent
from the summit of a shot-tower. Then gusts
of wind, sweeping in circles down from the
mountains, succeeded to the preternatural
calm ; in places the lower half of the black

cloud-curtain was lifted and blown aside, while
it hung motionless as before in the shelter of
the cliffs; and through gaps and rifts you
caught glimpses of the hills, lighted luridly
for some seconds by the fires of the lightning ;
while all the time the echoes were being
awakened far and near, and ere one roar had
died away in remote rumblings, another had
come to swallow the distant muttering. It
was Byron's thunderstorm, and not much, in
miniature ; and it was Yenables, and not
Leslie, who made the obvious quotation —

And Jura answers from her misty cloud," &c.

It was a grand spectacle while the thunderstorm
lasted, and Jack had every reason to be
pleased with it. He strode up and down the
room, returning perpetually to the windows.
He rubbed his hands, and expressed unqualified
admiration of the effects, till the solemnity of
the disturbance oppressed even him, and he
relapsed into silence in sympathy with his
companions. But the thunderstorm passed
away, though the rain continued to comedown
in torrents ; and if he still paced the
morning-room at intervals, he was chafing at
the enforced confinement.

You certainly are the most restless and
impatient of mortals, Jack," remarked Moray,
good-naturedly. "Why, young man, if you
cannot bear a single day's rain, most assuredly
you were never made for the Highlands."

"Not at all, sir — not at all," answered the
other, laughing ; " and you mistake my character
altogether. I've a deal more of practical
philosophy than you suppose, as I hope you
may have many opportunities of remarking.
If I knew we were in for a week of wet
weather, Leslie himself could not take it with
more serene acquiescence. But as the pigs are
said to smell a gale, so I scent fine weather
again, and I'm only surprised that it is so long
of appearing."

Whether Enables had the weather instincts
to which he pretended or not, as it happened,
he was right on this occasion. The clouds did
break towards evening; and moreover, there
was every promise of a fine day on the morrow.
He observed in the smoking-room, after dinner,
and apropos to nothing in particular —

I mean to go on an exploring expedition
tomorrow, to Lochrosque and the Braes of
Balgarroch."

"And I must say that you choose your time
well," returned Moray, with a smile that was
half kindly and half sarcastic. " Why, everyone
of the burns will be coming down in spate,
and the peat-bogs will be holding the rain like
so many sponges."

"And that, my dear uncle, is the very
reason, or partly the reason. There will be
no fishing till the rain runs off a bit; and I
want exercise and excitement after the day's
imprisonment. The streams will be flooded, it
is true ; but surely one can ' walk ' or wade them
somehow : and if the bogs be like sponges, as
you say, why, my muscles want stretching."

Stretched they will be, or strained or
sprained : we should have to fetch you home
ignominiously on the back of a shooting-pony,
and then you might have a chance of practising
patience through a protracted term of
confinement. No, my good boy, be guided
by me. Go in for a walk tomorrow, by
all means, but don't attempt the innermost
recesses of our Dark Continent."

But if there was one thing on which Enables
prided himself, it was in sticking to a
pet scheme he had originated.

Of course, if you put your veto on it,
sir, I have nothing more to say ; but even
if there were a clash of risk in the expedition,
as there is none, I know you would
be the last man to grudge me the fun
of it."

"Well, well, my good boy, you must go
your own way. I suppose the worst that
can happen, after all, is your being knocked
up after a mud-bath in a moss-pit. Only, if
you do go, you must be content to take one
of the gillies. I send Donald tomorrow to
Dingwall after some dogs."

"And the absence of Donald is half the
battle. Not that I do not appreciate his
society. I never met a fellow who was better
company. But Donald is as much at home
among his hills as a policeman on his beat in
Pall Mall ; and no exploration can be possible
when one is in charge of a dry-nurse. But I
shall take Peter, if you will allow me. I want
a man to carry a rifle."

Take Peter, and carry a rifle ? Is the boy
mad? Why, Peter knows nothing of the
country, and is the dullest lout on the ground.
And for the rifle, it would only be so much

dead-weight, for I fancy you do not propose
to kill one of my deer in June."

Not exactly. But I have a notion that I
may have a shot all the same, — always supposing
I arrive at the end of my pilgrimage.
And as for Peter, he is a fool, and as strong
as a horse ; and these are the qualities that
recommend him to me as a follower. He will
never feel the weight of the rifle, and will certainly
not volunteer advice."

Go your own way, as I said before," returned
Moray, "and amuse yourself as you
like. I have too much of the Highland hospitality
to put restraint on a guest, even if he
do happen to be crack-brained and a nephew
of my own. Only remember, I wash my
hands of all responsibility, and we refuse to
wait dinner."

Leslie laughed, and chimed in —

Don't say ' we,' sir, when you talk of
dinner. I cast in my lot with Jack Enables,
always supposing he has no objection."

"Not in the least, my dear fellow — not in
the least ! I should have asked you, on the
contrary, to accompany me, but I did not care
to put the screw on. With you for a companion,

and the worthy Peter for a beast of
burden, I consider the expedition to be perfectly
equipped. And whatever be the case
with me, your exertions ought to reward you.
There must be matter for a baker's dozen of
lyrics among the mists and braes of Bal-garrick."


The pair had made an early start. Five
miles of the flat had been covered on ponies,
which had subsequently been hobbled and
turned loose to graze. It was in a delightful
sense of freedom that the young men stretched
their legs, and set their faces to breast the
first slopes of the hills. As for Peter, he
plodded along behind, bearing the rifle, and
with a game-bag slung across his shoulders,
containing whisky and sherry flasks, with the
materials for luncheon. Peter's ordinary calling
was that of a sea-fisherman : he usually
listed with a shooting-staff for the short shooting
season ; though this year the wages that
were offered by Moray had tempted him to
engage at the beginning of the summer.

Enables had got himself up in a kilt, which
draped his lithe figure picturesquely enough ;

vol. I. c

and as he strode forward, although there was
a long day before them, he sprang from tussock
to tussock on the damp ground like a roebuck.
As for Leslie, a loose shooting-coat and baggy
knickerbockers half served to conceal any
superfluity of flesh. But if his companion cut
out the running, Leslie seemed likely to stay
tolerably well ; and indeed he was no novice in
peclestrianism. Both one and the other had
done good work in the Alps ; and Leslie,
weight and size notwithstanding, which somewhat
unfitted him for crawling after deer, had
been one of the first to scale the Aiguille de
Talefre.

"You can't possibly reproach me with premature
curiosity, Master Jack ; but may I
ask now, without indiscretion, what is the
meaning of the rifle with which Peter is
encumbered ? "

Certainly ; and I owe you many apologies
for not having anticipated your question. But
there was something dramatically sensational
in the blind confidence with which Sense was
following the lead of Folly into the wilderness ;
and besides, the betting is a hundred to ten
that the rifle may never be brought into requisition.

You remember how Donald in his
cracks ' the other night turned the conversation
on the goats of Balgarroch."

Oh, that's what we're after ! That's what
sent us on this wild-goose — I beg pardon —
on this wild-goat chase ! For Donald, if I remember
aright, remarked by way of postscript,
that the goats were unapproachable ; and the
proof is, that the patriarch, if rumour is to
be credited, may have been born anywhere
between now and the rising of the '45."

' Must have been born,' you mean to say.
The older he is, the greater the certainty that
he must be falling back by this time into his
second childhood. And of course, so long as
there was a deer on the hills, no one of the
deer-stalkers has dreamed of going after him.
Long impunity must have bred the confidence
I hope to abuse."

Say it is so. But going after a family-party
of wild goats over the Braes of Ballard
must be like looking for a lot of needles ina
bundle of hay."

I don't know that. Donald said that at
this season, when the hill-grazing is fresh, they
stick pretty much to the precipices to the west

of Lochrosque ; and somehow, and in spite of
the Laird, I have a presentiment that we shall
have a shot before the day is over. Anyhow,
if I miss the mark, there is nobody to laugh ;
for I breathed nothing of any possible intentions
to Grlenconan, and Peter is much too
idiotic to see anything. The secret is safe
with you, I am sure, for I know that ' Brutus
is an honourable man.' "

Brutus laughed, and silently assented. The
walking each moment was becoming more
severe, and both the men were inclined to
husband their breath.

It was lucky indeed that they were in fair
condition. Enables had scarcely turned a
hair, though he began to go more like a human
being than a chamois ; and as for Leslie, if he
showed greater signs of exertion, strength and
pluck pulled him steadily through. They
plunged through yielding peat-bogs up to the
ankles, threading with many turns and precautions
an intricate network of trenches and
moss-pits. They climbed hills where everything
was slippery after the rain, from the
roots of the heather plants to the surfaces of
the flat stones. And shoulder to shoulder they

stemmed the strength of streams, where the
rush of the waters rose nearly to mid-thigh,
and the shifting stones in the bottom gave
treacherous foothold. The very sounds of
animated nature were either wild or melancholy,
in sad harmony with the solitude of
those desolate wastes. The grouse brood
fluttered up almost under their feet as they
plunged their way through some patch of
heather. The mountain-hare started up among
the shingle and boulders, where she had been
crouching in faith in the similarity of her colour.
There was the piping of the lonely little
moor-birds, and the shrill whistle of the shy
curlew ; and everywhere was the plaintive
bleating of the sheep, gathered for the most
part out of sight in the sheltered carries — for
the ground they were then traversing lay beyond
the limits of the deer-forest.

Both Yenables and Leslie were glad enough

o o

to see the game-bag unslung and unpacked on
the shore of Lochrosque. Bread and beef,
cheese and pancakes, were spread on the greensward,
and Peter played an admirable clasp-knife,
by way of symphony to the creditable
performance of his masters. The day was

still young, and there was time before them.
Pipes and repose were veritable wisdom.

Besides," as Enables remarked, " the
worst of the work is over. I never was strong
in figures, but we must have climbed 2000, or
3000, or 6000 feet, as the case may be."

Mr Enables's estimates might have been
more exact, but it was evident, nevertheless,
that they had attained a considerable altitude.
Lochrosque was very much a counterpart of
Lochconan, infinitely more gloomy, but decidedly
less grand. There was not a sign of
a tree about its banks ; and the heather had
given place to coarse grass and granite debris.
Here and there the low flat banks were broken
by weather-beaten rocks, that seemed to have
been hurled by some concussion from the
heights above, and to have come bounding
and rolling down the slopes, till they checked
themselves at the bottom of the basin ; while
on the opposite side to where our friends were
sitting, hill rose behind hill. There was no
such tremendous precipice-wall as that which
frowned upon the south of Lochconan ; but
the hills were of granite, scantily clothed, and
their garments were weather-stained and terribly

tattered. Rough terraces of turf hung
over clefts and abysses, and torrents had torn
their way here and there from summits that
were invisible from the banks of the lake.
Altogether it was as break-neck a piece of
Highland scenery as ever tested the head or
tried the lungs and legs of an amateur.

So these are the famous Braes of Ballard
remarked Leslie ; " and now, I imagine,
you begin to comprehend how the years of
the father of the goat family should be patriarchal.
If he can manage to pick up a living
among these cliffs, immortality must be chiefly
a question of sure-goodness."

It looks very like it," Enables was forced
to admit, as his eye ranged from height to
height rather disconsolately. " I begin to
have a presentiment that previous presentiments
may have played me false. It is a
tough bit of work, and may be a long one, on
the off-chance of our getting a glimpse of the
goats. Happily I took the precaution of leaving
a line for ' Glenconan ' in case of accidents,
to say that it was just on the cards we might
camp out."

"You did, did you ? Happily there go two

words to that bargain, and I keep my further
movements under my own control. In any
case, though the days be long, we had better
proceed to a survey of the country. We must
cross the loch and turn that shoulder."

Peter unmoored a boat fastened under a shed,
and the passage was speedily accomplished.
Then the game-bag, with its reserves of food,
was " cached," as they say in Western America
; and hampered by nothing but the rifle, a
deer-stalker's glass, and a spirit-flask, the trio
commenced the climb.

Neither of the gentlemen, as has been said,
were novices in the mountains, and they were
by no means surprised at the piece of work
cut out for them. The heights that had shut
in the view from the loch-margin were merely
the spurs and the shoulders of higher hills behind.
Wilder and grander became the scenery
as they mounted upwards — more difficult and
more circuitous the walking. Sometimes the
turn of a ledge brought them face to face with
an insurmountable obstacle; frequently they
had to descend into a ravine, that they might
scramble up the opposite face, at a considerable
expenditure of homespun and knee-leather.

Many a time did Enables execrate
the costume of the Celt in which he had
draped the delicate limbs of a Saxon.

But as hunting-men will risk their necks
for a bag-fox, or even a red herring, so the
ostensible object of the walk was nothing to
them. One was a poet, the other an artist,
and artist and poet were ravished alike. The
burning sun had drawn the damp from the
soil, and the hills were wreathed in fantastic
vapours. The very rocks were smoking and
steaming, as if there were smouldering volcanic
fires underneath. And now and again, when
they looked down into unknown depths, they
might well have been poising themselves, like
Milton's Satan, on the borders of old Chaos
and Eternal Night ; for the billowy seas of
grey shifting mists marked invisible possibilities
of interest desolation.

They had found breath enough to indulge
in duets of sympathetic raptures, when Leslie,
as the more practically-minded and thoughtful
of the two, characteristically came back to
the prose of the situation.

I tell you what it is, my friend — should
these mists begin to thicken, it may be more

difficult to find our way back than you seem
to fancy."

Not a bit of it : it is only a fine weather
haze ; and the vapours will vanish with the
afternoon sunshine. There is a fine-weather
feeling in the air : just you ask Peter."

Peter, proud of being appealed to, when
the question was translated into more intelligible
language, answered unhesitatingly in
the affirmative. Indeed circumstances proved
afterwards that he and Enables were right ;
and when they stood at last on the Pisgah-like
summit of Ben-a-Gleish, the highest hill
for a dozen of leagues around, everything was
nearly as clear below as above, and the vault
of heaven was of transparent azure.

It was high enough and bleak enough in
all conscience. They had scared more than
one pair of parent ptarmigan — the young
broods had probably scuttled for refuge beneath
the stones. A pile of Cyclopean blocks,
pitched carelessly together, rose from a small
square plateau of slate and shingle. There
was a bird's-eye view of a confused panorama
of hill and valley, of black peat-moss and
bright green corrie, interspersed with rills

and streams winding their way towards lochs
and rivers. But in due time the " prospect-glass
" was supported against a walking-stick
driven into the ground, and Enables having
focussed his eye, was devoting himself to his
immediate object. Leslie had lighted a pipe,
and was looking on listlessly. He did not
believe much in the chase, but he felt amply
rewarded for the expedition

When Enables in a stifled whisper, as if he
had been breathing the words into a telephone
of preternatural sensibility, summoned Peter
to put an eye to the glass.

Ay, it will be them, sure enough, sir," was
the deliberate answer ; " and it will not be
that difficult to make the stalk upon the
beasts, whatever."

Leslie motioned Peter aside, and took his
turn of observation. Yes, there were the
goats — the family-party ; four of them were
visible, and possibly there might be more.

And the wind is favourable," whispered
Enables, "as if the day had been arranged
for us ; and nothing worse than a long circuit
to make — that's to say, if they don't
shift. Once upon the top of that ridge of

rock, and they ought to be within easy
range."

It is an anxious moment when, after a
lengthened stalk, you reach the spot you have
been steering for by predetermined bearings.
With Leslie and Peter following at a distance
in his wake, Enables had dragged himself
forward to the edge of the cliffs, and with a
heart beating as if it would have burst his
waistcoat - buttons, had he worn a waistcoat,
he drew a hand across his eyes to brush away
the streaming perspiration, — then he turned
his head in the direction where the goats
might be. There they were, on a bit of
grassy slope, within some seventy yards of
him, and the shaggy - bearded ancient, with
a pair of antediluvian - looking horns, was
fully exposed. A conscious sense of certainty
calmed his nerves. He pulled himself together,
waited to regain breath, and sent his
bullet in scientifically beneath the shoulder.
Leslie and Peter ran forward — too late to seethe
goat take a header into vacancy, while his
bereaved family made a bolt round the nearest
convenient corner.

"There he is — there he lies!" exclaimed
the excited sportsman, having changed his
place, and craned over so recklessly that his
friend was fain to hold on to him by his boots.
There he is ! you can just get a sight of his
hoofs, kicking away still under that shelf of
granite."

"I see him," said Leslie quietly, after a
moment or two. " And it's only a pity you
did not leave the poor beggar in peace, since
there is no possibility of recovering the
body."

Perhaps not. He weighs heavy, I dare to
say. I'll have the head and horns at any rate,
you bet, as the Yankees say." And before
Leslie could well interpose, Jack, who, with
the intuition of genius, had surveyed the
track, had swung himself over the edge, and
was steadily though slowly descending.

Families descensus, &c, has passed into a
proverb ; and we have it on immemorial French
authority, that the first step is everything, or
pretty nearly so. Enables proved the truth
of the former maxim, but he had reason to
question the wisdom of the second. He was
a youth much given over to impulses. Like

Leslie, as we have said, he was used to mountain
- climbing. He had the promptitude of
pluck almost in excess — a spurt would carry
him at any time through critical danger ; and
he had the confidence that came of his Alpine
experiences. He picked his way steadily
along an aerial and almost imperceptible path,
though the blood of the more phlegmatic Leslie
ran cool in watching him, and the usually imperturbable
Peter tossed his arms in the air.
But his impetuosity had not counted with
contingencies, as when, after zigzagging backwards
and forwards, all within the space of the
seventy yards, taking his final spring to the
broad shelf where the goat lay, the gravel
yielded under his feet. The rainfall of yesterday
had sapped the bank ; and the path he
had so deftly cleared was breached effectually.
Exaltation is invariably followed by reaction.
Had it all been comparatively smooth navigation,
Jack's pluck and spirit would have
carried him through. Now he must have felt
something like Icarus, when the wax was melting
on the aeronaut's pinions ; and a paralysing
horror settled down upon him as he knew his
retreat to be cut off. His eyes swam ; his

brain turned dizzy; and he did what was
probably the wisest thing in the circumstances,
and subsided on the ground with his back to
the abyss.

Enables's brain was in a swimming turmoil
of confusion, and had he been left to himself
or to Peter, his bolt would certainly have
been shot. While, as for Leslie, who had been
looking on in speechless horror, his thoughts
were never more clear or definite. He had
weighed the circumstances in a moment, and
he felt hopelessly depressed. The life and
death of his companion were hanging in the
balance, and his interposition would probably
in no degree avail. As for the dull and
respectable Peter, he was paralysed. He was
more at home, at the best of times, on the deck
of a herring-boat than on the hills, and was
made of any stuff rather than that of a hero.
All in that supreme crisis depended upon
Leslie — and the thoughts that were ordinarily
somewhat sluggish had answered to the spur,
and were working with the velocity of lightning.
It was hopeless, or almost so, to save
Enables ; but it was absolutely impossible to
go home without him. Fancy living on to tell

the tale — or conceal it, — how he had left his
comrade to perish within a stone-throw of
him ! Leslie was a gentleman and a Christian,
but scarcely a saint. He was loath to leave
life at a moment's notice, with all his misdeeds
and mistakes repented of. But his feelings
of chivalry were strong, and the sense of duty
was imperious. He breathed from his heart
the most earnest prayer for help and mercy he
had ever in his life sent up to heaven, as he
stepped in his turn over the cliff and followed
in the track of Enables.

He made the leap over the breach comparatively
easily. It tended only too decidedly
down-hill, and his ponderous initial momentum
aided him. The grave question was as to
getting back ; but that was a question to be
solved in the future.

Seldom have severed friends been reunited
under more serious circumstances ; and the
clasp of Enables's feverish hand repaid Leslie
for the risk he had run. The presence and
touch of his chivalrous friend were already
restoring the courage of the other. There was
this difference between the two — in Enables
the spirit had to fight the flesh ; and he could

only preserve a semblance of composure by
manfully diverting bis thoughts and turning
bis eyes away from the abyss. As for Leslie,
without prying into his innermost secrets, it
may be said that he could look dangers of all
kinds calmly in the face. At least he gazed with
less of apprehension than curiosity into the
depths of the yawning chasm beneath ; and before
he had well exchanged a hand-shake with
Enables, he was planning how they might retrace
their steps. He knew he had never been
so near to death, for he saw that the little
gravel - platform on which they stood was
already crumbling and yielding beneath their
united weight. He knew there was no time to
send the slow and stupid Peter to fetch help.
They must save themselves, and that promptly,
if they were to be saved at all. Enables was
looking to him for support, encouragement,
and guidance. So he proved himself true to
his practical good sense — drew the whisky-flask
from his pocket, and passed it to his friend.

That's right, old fellow ; take another
little pull," as he watched the light come
back to the eye and the colour to the cheek.
There, that will do. Wait till we are on the

VOL. I. D

firm ground again before you mend your
draught."

The cool promise of immediate safety did as
much to restore Jack Enables's confidence as
the inspiriting influences of the flask. For a
few moments, at all events, he was himself
again, and Leslie saw it was neck or nothing.
Stooping, with infinite presence of mind and a
swift sweep of his pocket-knife, he cut the
beard from the shaggy billy-goat.

We won't bother about the horns," he
observed, " but we must not go back without
your trophy." And that very simple remark
screwed the courage of Yenables to the .
It was he who gave the lead over
the gap, lightly bounding up upon the ground
that gave way beneath him, and so with half-a-dozen
successive springs placing himself in
relative safety. And then he forgot all the
danger that remained, in the moments of
agony that the danger of his saviour caused
him. There seemed a more formidable leap
than ever to be made, and Leslie had little of
the lightness and elan which had landed
Enables in comparative security. For a
second or so, it appeared that he had given

himself up. He stood as his friend had left
him, and covered his eyes with his hand.
Then he essayed to cross, but in a very
different fashion. If he had been setting his
feet on the flags of a London pavement, he
could not have trod more firmly, though the
foothold in each instance was some scarcely
perceptible niche in the hill-face. Will the
feet support his fourteen stone, or will they
not ? Enables's heart almost ceased to beat,
though Leslie appeared to be as composed as
ever ; and in another moment, in an unaffected
burst of emotional gratitude, he had
clasped his recovered friend in his arms. Had
Leslie literally come back from the dead, he
could hardly have been more warmly welcomed.


LIBRARY

Chapter III.

"yours for life or death."

Our young friends bivouacked that night
among the hills on the banks of Lochrosque.
With the morning's toil and the afternoon's
excitement, they felt they had done at least
as much as was good for them, and prudently
determined to " camp out." The " shelter
stone," shaped something like a Breton dolman,
with its Cyclopean blocks of rugged
granite, offered them very tolerable quarters.
They supped lightly ; they slept prosaically ;
they rose refreshed : so, hurrying them across
the intervening bogs, we land them in sight of
the house of Glenconan.

A great event had occurred in their absence.
It is seldom that the master of a remote Highland
residence has the chance of two thrilling
sensations simultaneously; but that piece of

fortune had happened to David Moray. While
he was looking forward to a solitary dinner
and a dull evening, his dearly loved daughter
had turned up unexpectedly. Grace Moray
had a dash of the romantic in her nature, and
it pleased her to arrange a surprise for her
father. The thought of the surprise that was
in store for him beguiled the tediousness of a
slow railway journey ; and as she paralysed
the self-important station-master by her unexpected
arrival, so she was enchanted to be
thrown back on her own resources. It was
a dramatically appropriate stage-introduction
to her Highland home. The station-master
offered her the hospitality of his cottage while
a messenger was despatched for the paternal
waggonette. The impetuous young woman
would hear nothing of the kind. She pressed
a "machine" from the neighbouring posting-house
into her service, the horse having been
captured with some difficulty in the unenclosed
meadows where he was running loose. She
mounted the machine with her maid, leaving
the boxes to follow ; and what between her
excitement over the beauties of the drive, and
her anticipations of the reception awaiting her,

her rising spirits fairly ran away with her, overflowing
in rapturous ejaculations and bright
snatches of song.

She had hoped to delight her father, and
she was amply satisfied. Moray, having made
some changes in his toilet, had strolled out
upon the gravel before sitting down to dinner :
he cast an eye on the cart-track that led upwards
toward Lochrosque, and turned away in
slight disappointment. Although he had lived
much alone in his time, he was naturally of
a social disposition, and would have liked to
have had dinner enlivened by a narrative of
incident. When swinging round on his heel,
before entering the hall, his eye was arrested
by a vision on the lower road — a heavy dogcart
was pulling up the steep, the driver walking
by the horse's head ; and in the carriage
were fluttering female garments, while a white
pocket-handkerchief was being flown by way
of signal. He realised in a moment what had
occurred, for the road the vehicle was following
led nowhere except to Glenconan. Another
moment, and he was striding hatless
down the hill, as if he had started on a 
match against time.

Grace Moray had arranged a semi-theatrical
surprise, and the meeting made a very pretty
tableau. On seeing an elderly gentleman comedown
at the double, the intelligent horse came
promptly to a standstill, and betook himself to
cropping the grass by the wayside. So the
young lady, in all security, could set one neatly
booted foot on the wheel and take a flying
leap into her father's arms. It was as well,
perhaps, that her cousins did not witness the
fervent embrace in which she was clasped before
she was landed on the gravel. They could
hardly have helped feeling envy and jealousy.
As for the trim lady's-maid on the back seat
and the shaggy-coated Highland driver, they
looked on complacently and indifferently from
their very opposite points of view.

Grace Moray had really been harmoniously
as she was simply named ; for there was grace
in her shape and her every gesture. So it
struck her father, and not for the first time, ashe
saw her posing on the carriage-wheel like
a domestic Venus. The slight irregularity of
her features only added to the piquancy of
their expression ; there was a laughing sweetness
in her soft grey eyes, which seemed to

speak of boundless capacities of affectionate
companionship, with all the sympathetic versatility
that can brighten a life. With the
masses of her rich brown hair slightly ruffled
under her Spanish hat by her father's hearty
embrace, with her clear complexion heightened
by the keen mountain-air, and with her eyes
glowing with the light of health and beaming
at once with excitement and tenderness, she
was as desirable a young helpmate and mistress
of an establishment as any fond father
might wish to welcome.

Circumstances change cases, and there is no
reckoning with the unexpected. A few minutes
before, Moray had been longing for his
male companions ; now, he saw in their prolonged
absence a special interposition of Providence.
His daughter, too, was very well content
when she heard of the expedition that left
her to a tete-astute. The early evening passed
quickly enough : they had so much to say as
to the present and the future. But when the
shadows of the loitering Highland night began
to fall, the girl began to feel uneasy. To her
there were vague horrors and dangers in the
solitudes of those trackless hills, which she had

admired and nevertheless half shuddered at in
the fading glories of the sunset. Sitting in
the snug room, watching through the open
window the shadows thickening and widening
in the clear gloaming without, her fancy began
to work uneasily. And though she knew
nothing of the real risks, with which her father
was familiar, her growing uneasiness began to
communicate itself to him. Left to himself,
he might scarcely have given a second thought
to the absence of his young friends. Jack
Enables's note had told him it was possible.
For himself, he had run the gauntlet of serious
dangers in his time, and, with innumerable
hairbreadth escapes, had always fallen safely
on his feet. A night on the hills of Glenconan
had seemed nothing to him. Now, however,
he found himself, to his own surprise, conjuring
up visions of the rugged precipices above
Lochrosque, with their precarious foothold and
almost invisible goat-tracks ; and he remembered
Jack Enables's headstrong pluck and
impetuous temperament. But he remembered
at the same time that Jack was in good company
; that Leslie was cool and prudent ; that
Peter, though stupid, was strong-bodied and

trustworthy; and he tried to dismiss his
doubts by saying to his daughter —

"Believe me, my dear, there is nothing
whatever to be alarmed about. Nothing worse
can possibly happen to the boys than a cool
bed among the heather, with colds in the head
to follow. In any case, we can do nothing till
the morning, for there are half-a-dozen ways
home from Lochrosque. Go quietly to bed,
and if they do not turn up for breakfast, we
shall send off a party of the gillies to meet
them, with materials to break their fast. Jack
has always an undeniable appetite ; and Leslie,
though he takes it more leisurely, runs him
hard with the knife and fork."

Grace professed herself so far satisfied, and
bade her father good-night. But when he
had left her in the pretty bedroom he had
carefully seen arranged for her, her anxieties
returned, and she sent her maid away. She
threw the window open and gazed out upon
the soft Highland night. She looked at her
snow-white sheets, and contrasted them with
a couch in the heather. A bed in the heather
was all very well ; on the whole, she would
have much enjoyed it herself. Couches of

fragrant heather-shoots and verdant bracken
associated themselves with all the witchery of
Scottish poetry; and what could the soul wish
better for a canopy than the star-studded
vault of the northern heavens ? But then
there was another side to that picture. Those
little-known cousins of hers — one or both —
might be, and very possibly were, lying crippled
or shattered at the bottom of the craigs,
with the carrion-crows and ravens for their sole
attendants. In short, when Miss Moray did
make up her mind to go to bed, it was to
anything rather than untroubled slumbers.
Youth, fatigue, and the Highland air were
lulling her into dreams, which were changing
perpetually to grim phantasmagoria and
nightmares. When she rose in the early
morning, the cold bath never was more
welcome ; and as it was, when she had kissed
her father's cheek, he noticed the fading of
the red Lancastrian roses that had been blooming
the evening before in her face.

Meanwhile Leslie and Enables had been
still earlier risers, though for very different
reasons. Moray's shrewd knowledge of mankind
had not deceived him, when he suggested

that Jack, under stress of privation,
would make a vigorous push for breakfast at
G-lenconan. Jack might not be sentimental —
he was certainly shy as to expressing sentiments
; nevertheless he had made an effort
and a clutch at Leslie's hand, and said, " You
may forget, my good fellow ; but you may be
sure that I never shall. Henceforward I am
yours, for life or death."

Nor did he say much more in the course of
the long morning's walk, though possibly, like
the parrot of story, he may have thought the
more. Till at last, from one of the lower
ridges he lifted up his eyes, and saw certain
moving figures in the middle-distance of the
landscape.

Look there, Leslie ! A relief expedition
sent out in search of us. If my note was duly
delivered, for the life of me I can't understand
the Laird. I should have said he was the
very last man in the world to bother about
the off-chance of a mishap."

It's not very likely," Leslie admitted.
But time will show, so it's no use troubling."

So here you are at last," shouted Moray
when they came within hail ; and both the

young men were astonished to observe that
their good-natured host and uncle was decidedly
flushed and choleric. " Here you are,
after keeping the household in hot water
through half the night, and rousing some of
us from our beds in the middle of our beauty-sleep."


Yenables, although ordinarily imperturbable,
was slightly taken aback for once. It
was quite a new experience of his uncle, whom,
as he flattered himself, he already knew pretty,
well. However, the next words of Mr Moray
enlightened him.

"Your cousin Grace arrived yesterday evening,
and I do believe she was up and about
with daybreak."

Enables whistled in silent soliloquy. Here
was the solution of the riddle, and a wonderful
instance of the power of paternal affection.
The revolution in our ways of life is beginning
with a vengeance, and in this domestic
breeze." And he added to himself with philosophical
resignation, " I knew that girl would
be a nuisance ; and if I'm sorry, I can't say
I'm surprised." Then recollecting himself,
after congratulating her father with an impressment

rather at variance with his real
feelings, he hastened to speak of yesterday's
escape, and was eloquent in his expressions of
gratitude. He warmed as he spoke with deep
feeling, and at another time he might have
made sure of an attentive listener. But now
Moray was almost as impatient as Leslie,
who tried repeatedly to cut the story short.
Moray was eager to hasten back and relieve
his daughter's anxieties ; and by common consent
the pair of craftsmen slackened their
pace, leaving their uncle to go forward and
announce their arrival.

The immediate upshot of the affair was to
place the meeting of the cousins on an easier
and more cordial footing than a longer acquaintance
might have done. Grace had a
placid nature, or at least a naturally sweet
temperament, which went far towards keeping
her quiet and calm under any circumstances.
But she had a lively imagination as
well. She may have been fatigued by the
journey, and instead of sleeping soundly as
usual, she had passed a restless and anxious
night. Her feelings had been overstrung
in picturing all manner of distressing casualties

— follies, as she tried to assure herself,
which she had been ashamed to acknowledge
to her father. But when she saw him
hurrying home unaccompanied, she had made
up her mind for the worst ; and the reaction
was as great as the relief, when she knew that
her fears were unfounded. Profound thankfulness
made her suddenly light-hearted again;
and when the younger gentlemen were passing
the gate of the short approach, her high spirits
of the day before were more buoyant for their
temporary depression.

It would have been difficult to imagine a
prettier picture than that of the bright graceful
figure in the doorway of the grim old
house. And closer observation only brought
out new beauties, as both Enables and Leslie
were fain to admit. Their recollections, as
they had seen her last, were of a tall, ungainly,
and rather forward school-girl ; while
Moray, in answer to requests that had been
by no means over-urgent, had refused to show
his young friends her photograph, on the
ground that no photographer had done her
justice.

There the fond father was right. • Jack

Enables's first impression was one of unqualified
admiration ; and then and there he
abjured the abominable heresy that the presence
of his cousin could be anything but a
gain. His second thoughts were as natural,
if less romantic ; and he remembered that he
had passed the night upon the hills without
the means of paying attention to his toilet.
To tell the truth, though without the more
regular beauty of his friend's features, he was
really a very good-looking young fellow, and
need not have greatly troubled himself on
that score. There are lanky-haired men who
can never show to advantage unless they
carry a pocket-comb and a stick of cosmetic
about with them. As for Enables, he curled
slightly like a well-bred spaniel, and could
dispense with brush and comb upon occasion ;
the open collar of his flannel shirt set off a
well-shaped neck to advantage, and the folds
of a well-hung kilt did justice to his active
figure ; while a morning plunge in the cold
depths of Lochrosque had effaced every sign
of fatigue and over-excitement. And the
more portly Leslie, who, moreover, had never
a trace of self-consciousness about him, carried

himself naturally with an easy and high-bred
air, that rose superior and indifferent to external
circumstances. He would have looked
the gentleman all the same, either in the
solemn dignity of a Court suit and ruffles,
or unpacked from the miscellaneous contents
of a third - class carriage after a through-journey
by oriental express from Calais to
Constantinople.

First impressions go for a great deal after
all, and in this case the first impressions were
mutually agreeable. Of course I do not mean
to hint for a moment that Miss Moray fell in
love at first sight with either of her cousins,
and far less with both of them. All I say is,
that she saw no just cause or impediment why
she should not feel for both, or either, the
warmest cousinly regard. As for the young
men, I should be sorry to speak so confidently.
Jack Yenables was impressionable,
and he knew it ; and falling in love at first
sight, on smaller provocation, was no very
novel sensation with him. "While Leslie, who
had no experiences of the kind, and whose
processes of thought were rather sure than
swift, would have been incapable, in his in-vol.

I. E

nocent ignorance, of analysing any similar
impulse.

Now make haste and shift yourselves, my
good boys, as we say in these parts," exclaimed
Moray, entirely himself again, and
beaming all over with cordiality. " Grace
ought never to have such a chance again
of knowing what is meant by Highland
appetites."

The good boys responded nobly to the
appeal. The broiled trout and the kippered
salmon vanished as by enchantment. Bacon
followed, crisp from the fender, arranged
before the glowing fire of peat that corrected
the freshness of the air from the open windows.
Justice was done to a certain savoury
grill ; and some eggs were thrown in casually
to fill the chinks, before the party proceeded
to trifle with pancakes, barley scones, and preserves.
Glenconan himself gave his nephews
a lead across the table, making occasional
casts by the sideboard and fireplace ; while
Grace, who was a maiden of mortal mould,
kept the three gentlemen modestly in countenance.
She was blessed with a healthy
appetite, and felt no false scruples as to

satisfying it. But when the meal was drawing
to a close, and the men were inlaying with
their teacups, Moray lay back in his chair and
begged Enables to resume his story.

The fact is," he remarked in brief apology,
"that, being bothered over Grace, who was
worrying herself very foolishly, I fear I cut
you uncivilly short. You see, I saw you were
both sound in wind and limb ; and had it not
been for her, I don't think I should have
troubled about you. If Jack had gone alone
upon his madcap expedition, I don't say. But
I thought that Ralph there had him in ,
and would be sure to bring him
back safe."

I don't know about his holding me in
leading-strings," broke in Mr Enables, impetuously.
" I fear you overrate his influence
on my foolhardiness. But I can tell you this,
that had it not been for his pluck and presence
of mind — for his deliberately exposing
himself to almost inevitable destruction — I
should never have come back except upon
a stretcher, and I doubt greatly whether even
Donald would have dared to go down and pickup
the pieces. It was an ugly place " — as he

spoke, he shuddered — " and it will be long
before I forgive myself for risking such a life
as Ralph's by my own absurd and pig-headed
folly."

Leslie, embarrassed for once, was blushing
like a girl, as Moray got up to slap him on
the shoulder, with a blow that expressed the
strength of his feelings. Grace sat behind
the tea-urn with flushed face and swimming
eyes, looking from one to the other of the
young men with infinite kindness and admiration.
Enables for one moment would have
given a good deal if the exciting story could
have been told the other way, and if he had
been figuring there in the role of saviour.
But he hastened to dismiss the unworthy
thought ; if it did flit across his mind, the
story gained in the telling thereby. He had
the gifts of a raconteur : he put the situations
dramatically ; he painted his own feelings of
self-abandonment and despair; he did not
even spare himself the imputations of cowardice
as the earth was swimming before his
eyes and his thoughts went whirling wildly
towards eternity. Then he imagined Leslie's
chivalrous resolution of self-sacrifice with the

quick intuition that belonged to him, and
described the courage he had himself drawn
in his extremity from contact with the
stronger and more heroic temperament.

"Coming over the cliff was comparatively
nothing," he concluded. " It was the sort of
thing any fellow was bound to do, rather
than go back alone and admit that he had not
tried it ; but having clone so much, I believe
ninety - nine out of a hundred would have
only thought of how they were to get back
again, and they, with the hundredth, would
have been puzzled to manage it. I daresay
Leslie loves his life as much as another, and
}^et he never gave a thought to it while mine
was in peril. He was cooler when making a
balustrade of himself between me and the
abyss, and trying to scrape a foothold for
the pair of us with his nailed shooting-boots,
than he is as he sits behind his teacup, wishing
himself anywhere else."

A peroration which gave Leslie the longed-for
pretext for proposing an adjournment fora
pipe at the kennels. Nor was Miss Moray
very sorry to be left alone, in a state between
smiling and crying. Seriously inclining her

pretty ear, like Desclemona, she had been
strongly moved by Jack's animated tale, sympathising
almost less with his hairbreadth
escape than with his generous manner of
narrating it. And on the other hand, like
Rebecca in ' Ivanhoe,' Enables had been
painting a hero," and the hero had been
sitting modestly beside her. She could
hardly say which of her cousins had interested
her most ; she only knew that she felt
herself strongly attracted towards both of
them.

CHAPTER IV.

A PLEASANT SURPRISE.

It seems a pity that the novelist cannot introduce
something like the chorus of the Greek
play, or refer the reader to explanations in an
appendix, for the succinct narration of those
preliminary details which are indispensable to
the understanding of his story. But sooner
or later the reader must be troubled with
them, and it is as well to trouble him soon
and get it over. Born to a long pedigree and
a broad inheritance of barren acres seriously
embarrassed, David Moray, as a very young
man, had been offered a chance of pushing his
fortunes in the Tropics. It was a time when
the oriental pagoda - trees bore richer fruit
than now, or at least when there were far
fewer Europeans to shake them. If there
were grander prizes to be gained, there were

greater changes and hardships to be faced
when the adventurer turned aside from the
beaten tracks. Resolute, persevering, and
prematurely self-reliant, young Moray was
as much tempted by the hazards as by the
prizes. His father, with the proverbial caution
of the Scot, waited till his son had a
certain experience. Then an additional mortgage
on the Grlenconan estates furnished him
with a moderate capital. Perhaps the old
gentleman might have been less freehanded
had he known more of his son's disposition.
David's daring speculations would have made
his father shudder. The young adventurer
had taken good introductions with him, and
his pleasant ways made him powerful friends
among members of the great English firms in
the ports of China and the Malay Peninsula,
He was always a welcome guest at their
tables ; he might apparently have lived in
luxurious free quarters for the duration of
his natural life. Those of the merchants who
were sportsmen had him in special affection ;
and nowhere are friendships more quickly
cemented than in sporting-parties in the solitudes
of the rice-swamps or the jungles. But

Moray was the last man in the world to " sorn,"
as they say in Scotland — that is, to sponge
upon friends. He was too full of energy, too
set upon arriving at his ends, too home-sick,
we may add — though the word scarcely expresses
our meaning — to linger on the circuitous
road that was to lead him back to
Glenconan and a competency. Recreation in
the way of wild sports came to him naturally ;
for the rest, he never relaxed when he could
help it, save when there was nothing profitable
to be done, or else to serve some definite
purpose. Those pleasant evenings over the
social board formed business as well as friendly
connections. The chats at the bivouac by the
forest-fire suggested many a topic of commercial
interest. A partner of no firm in
particular, Moray became the ally and agent
of many besides the one that had trained him.
The custom regulations of China were severe ;
the contraband trade was immensely lucrative ;
European opinion was sufficiently lax on the
subject : and yet there were many gainful
affairs that were too compromising to be
lightly undertaken by the old established
houses. Not a few of these transactions were

put in Moray's way, when he had once given
guarantees of his discretion and enterprise.
No one cared to inquire how far he was
agent or principal. What was certain was,
that Fortune stood his friend ; and he became
notorious as much for good-luck as for
ability. Having repeatedly steered his frail
skiff in safety through the breakers, he
launched a vessel on his own account, and
mustered a crew. In other words, he finally
came out as a full-fledged merchant, with
agents at the Formosa Islands, and Singapore,
and sundry of the Malay towns. For
himself, he was here, there, and everywhere :
the servants — whom he well knew how to
choose, besides — could scarcely play him false,
since his visits of supervision came off when
they were least expected. So far he had the
special gift of a M. de Lesseps, that he had
the knack of establishing a friendly ascendancy
over native potentates. He was understood
to be hand in glove with not a few of
the rajahs and sultans, and more than once
his good offices and shrewd diplomacy had
been of considerable service to the British
authorities.

He was known to be rich ; and it was said
that he might have been richer, had it not
been for his occasional flying trips to Scotland.
And in the days when sailing-vessels
and steamers made the circuit of the Cape,
those visits were more serious affairs than
they would be nowadays. But Moray, like
Walter Scott, was wont to say that he must
have died had he not occasionally breathed
the air off the heather ; while as it was, he
had kept himself in admirable health, with an
appetite that was as sound as his heart and his
liver. During one of his furloughs, he had
buried his father in Glenconan kirkland,
after having; brightened the old man's declining
years by relieving the estates of the
last of their encumbrances. During another
trip, and nearly twenty years before our
story opens, he had married a wife, the
daughter of a Sussex squire, and persuaded
her to share his wandering fortunes — a step
to which her family were the more willing
to assent, that the young lady had but little
fortune of her own. The marriage was only
too happy while it lasted. To his intense
grief, poor Moray lost his wife by an epidemic,

just as, being reclaimed and thoroughly
domesticated, he had resolved to
realise his property and come home. He
never ceased to regret that he had not acted
on the determination a year before. As it
was, he threw himself into trade pursuits
more energetically than ever, sending the
little daughter his wife had left him to be
nursed under the wing of a grand-aunt. He
was relieved to be rid of the child, yet very
loath to part with it — for already it had the
smile and the eyes of its mother.

With the separation, his more tender feelings
had it all their own way, and thenceforward
he had another attraction to England.
Latterly those flying home-trips of his, if they
were more brief, became more frequent, especially
after the opening of the Suez Canal. He
had fixed the period of his final return at the age
when his daughter ought to be " coming out ";
and in the meantime he knew that she was in
good hands. Old Miss Enables was a softhearted
but sensible spinster, who had missed
her vocation in not marrying. Her bright
little grandsire was even more of a godsend
than the very handsome annuity her brother-in-law

settled on her. She devoted herself to
her young charge. As Grace grew up, she
engaged her an excellent governess : and the
three females saw a good deal of the world ina
quiet way, changing their residences from
Bath to Brighton, from Clifton to Scarborough;
and varying the pleasant life with an occasional
excursion to the Continent.

"Grace is petted, of course," the old lady
used to say ; " and perhaps I spoil her a little.
I'm sure I don't know ; and I don't think she
generally abuses her influence. But it strikes
me that, though she is kind enough to talk
matters over fairly, she always contrives to
have her way in the end."

Which proposition Grace, if she were present,
would pleasantly dispose of with smiles
and kisses. Possibly being too honest to deny
it, she preferred to waive the point. As for her
father, he was quite satisfied with the manner
of her education.

I don't fancy you will find it very easy to
spoil her ; and at all events, I give you liberty
to try."

And as he stroked her fair hair, and looked
in her frank eyes with proud confidence, the

girl probably felt that she was put upon her
honour. At all events, any spoiling was only
skin-deep ; and she grew up the most indulgent
of domestic tyrants.

The sudden death of her aunt, which took
place about eighteen months before her appearance
at Glenconan, was a sad shock. It
was somewhat softened by her finding a temporary
refuge under the roof of another old
friend ; for her governess had just married a
Protestant pasteur at Pau, where she offered
all the advantages of a home to half-a-dozen
young English ladies. There she was to await
her father's return.

The death of Miss Enables, on whom he
had devolved his paternal responsibilities, necessarily
precipitated Moray's arrangements.
He set to work to wind up with characteristic
energy. As he explained to his daughter
afterwards — "The thing had to be done, and
there was little time to stand on the manner
of doing it. So I snapped a thread here, and
cut a tangle there ; and if there were knots, I
untied them with my teeth or my fingers."

And when Grace remarked that she feared
he must have sacrificed something considerable

to his precipitation, he only answered, with a
laugh, that if he came home with a trifle less
money than he might have done, nevertheless
she would be very satisfactorily tottered !
Which isn't at all, papa, what I meant, as
you know."

Not even the most intimate of his mercantile
connections knew anything of the exact
amount of his wealth, for Moray never made
unnecessary confidences. But it was certain
that his only daughter, by her fortune, as by
her looks and her birth, ought to be free topick
and choose among all manner of eligible
suitors.

Miss Moray was generally good - humour
itself — she had the happy gift of looking on
the bright side of things ; and indeed, with
the sad exception of her recent bereavement,
life had hitherto almost invariably smiled on
her. But for once Miss Moray was irritable
and out of sorts ; and the consciousness of that
unchristian phenomenon fretted her, so that
her last state was far worse than the first, — so
much so, that her good friend Madame Eob-
ineau had proposed a consultation with the

doctor. The bare suggestion of such an absurdity
did Miss Moray good, and for the first
time for several days she actually burst out
laughing.

I don't believe I've seen a doctor since I
had the whooping-cough ; and I am sure, in
my present state of health, I am quite unfit for
the interview. To face a doctor, one should
be thoroughly robust. If you had spoken of
a change of scene now, there might be something
in that ; and in any case, it would save
your carpets. I feel as if there were quicksilver
in my veins, and as if the chair-cushions
were catapults. Perhaps you may have remarked
my restlessness," she added, innocently.

I have indeed, my dear ; and so has
Adolph," answered Madame Eobineau, so
plaintively that Grace again rippled over in
laughter. " And I do believe that a few days
at the Eaux-Chaudes will do you all the good
in the world. I don't mind giving myself
a little holiday ; and I daresay Adolph can
manage to join us on Monday, and offer us
his escort back. But I must say, my dear,
it is excessively foolish to make yourself so
unnecessarily uneasy about your father. You

know as well as I, that he troubles the doctors
as little as yourself; though, to tell the truth,"
she added, incautiously, "I think Mr Moray
has been somewhat neglectful."

For her father's most unusual silence was
the grief from which Grace was suffering. Asa
rule, and under all circumstances, he had
invariably written once a- week, although sometimes
his letters might be delayed, and two or
three of them delivered together. But since
the latest arrival, full five weeks had elapsed ;
and so Miss Moray was uneasy, irritable, and
indignant. She had blamed his neglect, that
she might calm her anxiety ; but she never
endured the slightest imputation on him from
another, as Madame might well have known
had she reflected.

You may be quite sure, Madame Kobineau,
that Mr Moray has good reasons for what he
does ; and for all we know to the contrary, he
may be any distance away in the jungles.
You speak as if he were living in Pau or Paris,
where there are always letter-boxes round the
corner, and telegraph stations over the way."

Madame was quick to read the unwonted
storm-signals. It was rarely Grace spoke of

VOL. I. F

her father as "Mr Moray"; and, moreover,
they had been perpetually discussing during
the last fortnight all conceivable contingencies
that might have caused the delay. So she
wisely waived the question and changed the
subject, and the expedition to the Eaux-chances
was duly carried out. It did not
prove much of a specific. Grace continued to
be restless and preoccupied. It was the more
disquieting in one whose natural temperament
was placid ; and Madame Eobineau, becoming
seriously uneasy, watched for letters almost as
eagerly as her charge.

The reverend pastor had given himself leave
from his flock on the Monday morning, arriving
at the Eaux-Chaudes in time to accompany
the ladies on a drive to Gabas. They had
come back to a substantial tea ; and it was
one of the consequences of Grace's feminine
upbringing that she had rather a liking for
that most objectionable meal, and usually did
it ample justice. But on this particular evening
the mountain air had affected her as little
as the mountain scenery. She showed herself
as indifferent to the cutlets and the trout as
to the snow-covered summits, and the black

pine-woods, and to the green waters rushing
under the rocks and through the thickets of
natural box-shrubberies. And yet, as if she
had not had enough of communing with
nature, when she rose from the table she left
her friends to a conjugal tete-astute, and went
off for a solitary ramble down the valley.
Though she tripped lightly away, she did not
walk very far. At the first sharp turn, she
stepped aside from the precipitous road, and
seated herself upon a moss-cushioned stone
hanging over the bed of the torrent.

I have given a very false idea of my heroine
if I have represented her as in any way lackadaisical.
Few young ladies were less given to
melancholy moods ; though, as with all finely
strung and somewhat romantic natures, many
of her most enjoyable moments were tinctured
with sadness. But now the dimpled chin
went down into the slender hand, memory
and imagination were away together upon a
roving commission ; and to any artist surveying
the meditative maiden from above and
behind, she might have sat for a Niobe or an
image of La Pensevosa.

I do not profess to follow her thoughts —

and indeed they were so fantastically absurd
as to be hardly worth the following. All that
can be said in extenuation is, that she had
been growing less and less like her sensible
self for a fortnight past. She had lunched
indifferently, she had starved herself at tea ;
and so, like some of the solitary hermits of
the Thebaic! after their severe and prolonged
fasts, she saw strange visions and she dreamed
wild dreams. Considering that Mr Moray
was " hard as nails," that the manifold experiences
of many adventurous years had
proved him to bear something like a charmed
life, the tremendous situations in which she
figured him did infinite credit to the vivacity
of her imagination. Could she have counted
upon such fancies coming to her call, she
might have composed a new series of the
Arabian Nights.' But her father's own
stories and letters from the East had supplied
the materials and the colouring. He
was being caught in the coils of a gigantic
anaconda, and being drawn out in ribbons
like the metal that is meant for an Armstrong
gun. He was being held to ransom by a
truculent Malay chief, who had confined him

in a cage of split bamboo, with a view to
ordering him off to execution after a course
of preparatory torture. His vessel was becalmed,
and he was beset by pirates, with
the tints of a native crew turning unnaturally
yellow behind the boarding-netting, while the
fleet of sweep-impelled pross was approaching
hand over hand. Struck down by the jungle-fever
or the cholera — she did not pretend to
give the precise diagnosis of the disease — he
was tossing in a grass hammock, clutching
vainly at a water-jar, while his negligent
attendant had gone sound asleep. That is
scarcely a fair outline of the commonplaces
which her fancy richly embroidered ; but
something like the last of these pictures had
struck her so pathetically, that her agitation
relieved itself in stifled sobs.

And then — the mania for devising surprises
must have run in the family — and then she
was startled from her melting dream by a
hand being gently laid upon her shoulder.
While her spirit had gone fluttering from the
Pyrenees to the Tropics, it had missed the
very individual it went in search of. A
hale elderly gentleman, apparently in perfect

health and excellent spirits, having rounded
the sharp corner of the road, had paused to
take breath and admire the landscape. What
struck him most and at once, was the graceful
figure in the foreground. The pose was
sad, no doubt ; but when he had wiped his
forehead and rubbed his eyes, he showed
anything rather than the appropriate sympathy.
On the contrary, his pleasant though
rugged features were lighted up by a sudden
illumination, as if they had caught the last
glowing reflection of the setting sun. Then
the radiance gave place to a grin of self-satisfaction,
as of a boy who saw his way to a
capital joke. The dignified pedestrian cast a
conscious look about him, as if to make quite
certain that he was not observed. Next balancing
himself on tiptoe like an elderly faun
who had latterly fallen back upon looking
on at the forest-dances, he stepped softly
forward, as if treading among sword-blades,
and his hand had come down on the dreamer's
shoulder.

When a gentleman long past middle life
indulges in something like a practical joke, he
deserves to pay the penalty. Moray cursed

his burst of boyishness from the bottom of
his heart when he saw his daughter spring up
with streaming eyes, start back, and turn
paler if possible than before. In her state of
exaltation, and with the dash of superstition
in her Highland blood, she may have fancied
for the moment that she saw the Doppelganger
of the parent whose death or sufferings she had
just been bemoaning. Grace had never fainted
in her life ; but now she might have yielded
to the weakness and sunk down, had she not
been caught in a pair of strong arms. The
firm grasp did more to bring her to herself
than the strongest smelling-salts or sal-volatile.
Like a sensible girl as she was, she called her
courage to her aid, and dismissed her terrors
with her idle dreams. Five minutes more,
and she was the Grace who had been more or
less present to him, sleeping and waking, in
restless nights on the Indian Ocean and the
Reel Sea, as in Pullman cars between Brindisi
and Paris.

"After all," he exclaimed, as they stopped
for about the twentieth time in their slow
saunter towards the hotel, after exchanging
the fullest explanations for mutual affectionate

reproaches — " after all, my penitence is already
almost a thing of the past, and I hardly regret
the boyish trick I played you."

"Then I am sure you ought to repent it,
sir," she answered, lightly ; " and you must
not begin by taking advantage of my forgiving
disposition."

No, I don't think I regret it," he went on
reflectively, speaking rather to himself than
to her, as he returned the warm pressure of
her fingers. "You see I hoped, indeed I
knew, that you cared about me ; but we had
been so far apart and for so long. It would
have been only natural had you felt nothing
much warmer than friendship for a prodigal
father who must have seemed strangely neglectful.
Now I know better, and for the
future we understand each other."

"I should think so, indeed; as if any
understanding had been necessary ! A prodigal
father ! and neglectful ! What of the
many letters I missed so much, that, in missing
them, for the first time you made me
miserable ? not to speak of the presents that
fell in showers on me as on Madame Eobineau
and dear aunt Enables. Why, sir, do you

know, we always regarded you as something
between the Good Genius who keeps the
keys of enchanted treasure-chambers, and the
mighty men of the East who never travelled
without spices and apes and peacocks."

Miss Moray's quotations had got rather
mixed, between the Magi and King Solomon
and the Queen of Sheba. But then she was
talking volubly for talking's sake, in case her
feelings should again get the better of her;
and they were standing full in sight of the
hotel windows — for which reason she did not
answer her father with an embrace, which was
the kind of coin in which he best liked to be
paid for those gifts of his. But as he had
said, they had already come to an understanding
; so it did not so much matter. He
quite understood what was passing in her
mind, and changed the subject accordingly.

Talking of scents and spices and apes, there
are no end of sandal wood things coming round
by Gibraltar for you, and I left a monkey in
charge of my servant at the Louvre in Paris.
I picked him up from a lascar on board the
Jumna, when I struck a boat-hook into his
hide, and saved him from a watery grave.

There was something in his eyes that reminded
me of you, and so I bought him for the family
likeness. I don't know how the resemblance
may strike you ; it is rather in the expression,
perhaps, than in any regularity of
features."

Merci pour le compliment, mon pere" said
the young lady, curtseying gracefully ; and
when she ushered him into the sitting-room,
all traces of emotion had disappeared, except
perhaps for a slightly heightened complexion.

Ah ! mademoiselle then has found the physician
my wife prayed her to see," remarked M.
Eobineau gallantly, after compliments of ceremony
had been exchanged with the distinguished
arrival. " And found her appetite
again," he might have added ; for at the inviting
little supper which was quickly improvised,
Grace kept her father very creditably
in countenance. It was a pleasant meal, both
to performers and lookers-on ; nor did the
party separate very early. Madame and her
husband would have discreetly withdrawn,
leaving the newly united relatives to their
caresses and their confidences. But Moray
would not hear of it. He thought his daughter

had gone through enough in the way of emotion
for the time, and fancied that the best
preparation for sending her soundly to sleep
would be to amuse and distract her in the
meantime. M. Kobineau, who was blessed with
an inquiring mind, was ready enough to listen
and ask leading questions. And Moray, when
fairly warmed to the work, astounded the
stay-at-home pastor with his stores of picturesque
information. Grace had never seen her
father figure to such advantage ; and as she
had a considerable opinion of M. Kobineau 's
intellect, she revelled in that gentleman's respectful
admiration.

It was as if he had conjured up the spectacle
or the farce, which our principles can never
permit us," he observed to his wife in the retirement
of their sleeping-chamber. " It was
as a melange of the travels of Marco Polo with
the extravagances of M. Jules Verne. And
what an air grand seigneur with it all, though
his manners are as simple as his dress was
slightly soigne. Ah, how cette chere Meet
Grace ought to be happy!"

To which Madame, who had been scarcely
less enthusiastic, sleepily but cordially assented.

For Moray's frank face, and the dignified
ease of his manner, as well as the modesty with
which he touched on any personal adventures,
were admirably fitted to ingratiate him with
the ladies.

CHAPTER V.

COUSINLY AFFECTIONS.

When M. Robineau had bid adieu to the nabob
and grand seigneur, he expressed even more
unqualified admiration than on their first acquaintance.
And with good reason, for, as he
gratefully remarked, " On ne pourrait pas etre
plus generous." The mighty man of the East
had been lavish of his gifts to the " temple "
in which the worthy pastor ministered, and
he had made Madame Robineau magnificent
offers to induce her to devote herself for a
month to his daughter. The weather was becoming
too hot to make Pau a desirable place
of residence ; and it was arranged that Grace
was to pass a month under Madame's wing
between the Baths in the mountains and
Biarritz.

Why don't you take me with you ? " she

demanded, not unnaturally. " I thought it
was agreed that we were to be inseparable for
the future."

So I hope we shall be, my dear — till "

Till when ? "

' Well, till it pleases you to change your
name, Miss Moray, which seems a contingency
we are both bound to contemplate."

Miss Moray laughed, and vowed eternal
constancy or celibacy with a semi-comic seriousness
that by no means carried conviction.
With all her filial love, it was quite in her
mind to give her father a rival sooner or later.
Then she returned to the point in dispute, and
pressed her company with a pleading eloquence
that, as she said, should have touched a heart
of stone. But her father was obdurate, for
reasons best known to himself, and defended
his resolution with flattering sophistries.

Were it not that we were to be so soon
reunited, my dear, nothing would induce me
to leave you. But you will know some time,
that few things are so enjoyable in life as
dallying in anticipation with pleasures that
seem certainties. Not that I have not carried
that too far occasionally. I have sat looking

at a basket of mangosteens in sultry weather,
till the moment had gone by when they could
be eaten in perfection. I have watched the
tigress playing with her cubs in the jungle,
till something suddenly scared her, and I
missed the shot."

"Your instances tell against your argument,
and your honesty is too much for you," his
daughter rejoined, very pertinently. But there
was no shaking his fixed determination, so she
could only sigh and resign herself.

After all, what had much influenced his decision
was his impatience to have done with
the past and begin afresh with the future.
Grace in England would have fettered his
movements ; he would always have been dissipating
with her or dangling after her. As it
was, he went to work indefatigably to finish
the winding up of his Eastern affairs and put
everything in train. He sought satisfactory
investments for his capital ; he made a variety
of indispensable purchases, buying horses and
hill-carriages, and new batteries of guns ; he
sent upholsterers to set Glenconan in order,
and engaged a suitable staff of servants. When
the princess came down to her hereditary domains,

she should find everything in tolerable
order. He had thought of buying a house in
town, and of having Glenconan entirely furnished
and decorated. But the latter feat was
almost impossible in the time, even had he
given carte blanche a la Monte Christ ; and
he knew, besides, that if he wished to pay
Grace a compliment and give her pleasure, he
must leave everything to her taste, and throw
the troubles of shopping on her shoulders.
What is fun to her would be misery to me,"
remarked this excellent parent, and the reflection
brought him infinite relief.

Had Mrs Moray been still in the body, the
small family-party that was to greet Grace
at Glenconan might have been differently
arranged. Here was a great heiress, inexperienced
and unsophisticated, about to be
launched on English society. " She might
marry a duke," her proud father often said to
himself; and indeed there seemed no just
cause or impediment why she should not.
Besides the money which might come inconveniently
were she to marry a peer with a
nominally ample rent-roll, she was well-born,
well - bred, singularly winning, and accomplished

to boot. For her accomplishments
came to her by intuition instead of education.
Like her cousin Jack, she drew and coloured
with a facility that marvellously resembled
genius. She would sit down to the piano and
rattle you off a fantasia of her own very
original conception. Brilliancy was brought
in in aid of feeling ; and in her intense though
unconscious strength of sympathetic abstraction,
she threw her whole soul into the melodious
intonations. Though she had seldom
crossed the Border, she would warble some
plaintive Scotch air so as to bring tears to
the eyes of impressionable listeners ; and perhaps
nothing leads on to serious love making
like mutual abandon in such emotional
moments.

Moray knew all that as well as anybody :
he was very much a man of the world,
although his days had been passed in the far
East ; and it certainly was not his way to
uncle-estimate the fascinations of his daughter.
Yet he had deliberately chosen to throw
her into the company of a couple of cousins
who could scarcely be called eligible, although
well aware that at any moment an accident

vol. I. G

might happen, the consequences of which it
would be impossible to remedy.

For the two young gentlemen to whom the
reader has already been introduced were his
nephews — the one by marriage, the other by
blood. Leslie, whom he liked rather than
loved, was his sister's son, and proprietor of
a small estate in East-lothian. Roodholm,
when the moderate jointure of the dowager
Mrs Leslie was deducted, might be worth
some £1200 per annum — certainly not more.
But Leslie, with his many estimable qualities,
was a man in whom Moray scarcely believed.
As he had been heard to remark once, when
touched in the liver, " That boy is doomed to
die in the fulness of years and reverence, after
wasting his days and frittering away his
opportunities. And the best reward for his
life of thoughtful benevolence would be living
to attend his own funeral, and listening to
the eulogies pronounced over his coffin. Yes,
Master Ralph is a thoroughly good fellow, and
a trustworthy; but "

In that somewhat depreciatory estimate,
perhaps Moray was mistaken, for the natures
of the uncle and nephew had little in common.

Moray scarcely believed in the existence of
those qualities he admired, unless their possessor
was perpetually showing certificates to
character in the shape of palpable evidences
of visible success.

As for Jack Enables, in all essential circumstances
he was infinitely less eligible than
Leslie. The nephew of Moray's wife, he was
the eldest son of a highly respectable Sussex
rector, who was, besides, a canon of Chichester
Cathedral. But the Church dignitary lived
nearly up to his means, and there would belittle
to distribute among his numerous children.
Jack might be said to have no expectations
; nor had he any of those specially
influential connections that almost hustle a
clever young fellow uphill. If the world was
his oyster, as he believed, it was for him to
find the knife to open it ; and he had been
sorely exercised over the choice of a profession.
He was in haste to arrive, and yet he longed
to linger — or at least to improve each shining
hour, in the way of pleasure as well as
business. A life of aimless pleasure would
have been intolerable to him ; a life of richly
repaid monotony, or of dull isolation in some

back-of-the-world colony, would have been
even worse. He would have scouted a consulship
and an income of £3000, had such
gifts of Providence been on the cards, since
they would have involved exile and possessing
his soul in patience through a long course of
saving. Such a career as Moray's had been,
seemed altogether different. There was perpetual
excitement in it to make privations
almost pleasurable, with the chances of the
coups that carried you forward to wealth.
He honestly admired his uncle and his success
; and had it occurred to the elder man to
place Yenables in his shoes when he retired,
the youth would have asked nothing better of
fortune. That, however, had not occurred to
Mr Moray ; and Jack, with his vague fancies
and indefinite future, seemed a singularly
impracticable subject. He might turn out
well or ill : he was the very man, according
to the Scotch saying, " to make a spoon or to
spoil a horn." For that very reason, perhaps,
Moray liked him ; and, what meant more in a
man of his shrewdness, he believed in him.
He thought Jack would be well worth a helping
hand, and that hand he was quite ready

to extend. So it could hot have been without
due consideration that he threw the impecunious
but agreeable youth into familiar
relations with his pretty daughter. And
yet Grace's prospects caused him ceaseless
anxiety ; and he seldom thought of the fortune
she was to inherit, without his usually
equable temper being ruffled.

But whatever the future might have in
store for the party at Glenconan, it was certain
that they were thoroughly enjoying the
present. Grace had brought delightful weather
with her : balmy evenings and glorious sunsets
succeeded the bright and genial days. The
monkey that had been sent down from town
with the heavy baggage, having shaken off the
agues and shivering-fits that had oppressed
him during the rains, roamed verandah and
roofs like a chartered libertine, doing infinite
damage to the crockery and the flower-beds
when people's backs were turned. Grace had
taken him in warm affection ; and consequently
both her cousins courted him assiduously,
to the great development of the virtue
of self-control. There was little affectation
in that with Leslie, who was placid and long-suffering,

and whom all animals at once recognised
as a friend. But it was as good as a
bit of comedy to see Jack Enables instinctively
raise his hand for a cuff, or his foot fora
kick, smooth his ruffled eyebrows on second
thoughts, and fondly stroke the objectionable
animal, who probably repaid the caress with a
snarl or a snap.

And to Moray, who said nothing, though
little escaped him, "the monkey in the
family" meant a great deal. He saw that
both the cousins were, metaphorically, falling
at the feet of the heiress, though neither
might have acknowledged to himself how
much he had come to care for her. Yet he
looked on quietly, and let matters take their
course, as if the girl had been one of a dozen
daughters.

There was another individual who looked
on quietly too, seeing more than the young
lady, or his master, or anybody else suspected.
Donald Ross had vowed eternal devotion, and
had already made decided inroads on her
heart. She was frequently with him in the
outhouse, where he employed his leisure in
busking flies for the streams and lochs, or

knocking up grouse-boxes for the forthcoming
shooting season. It was Donald who led her
pony on expeditions into the hills, and found
endless subjects of conversation with which
to entertain her. He dwelt particularly on
the reminiscences of those tenants of the Glen
who had been shipped to the antipodes in the
days of her grandfather. He revelled in the
legend of the witch of Funachan, who had
been notoriously in the habit of night-riding
the evil-minded hill-folks in their nightmares.
But she listened to him most needfully when
he would change the subject to the pair of
cousins who were her constant companions.
Both the old keeper and his young mistress
were inclined to hero-worship ; but it was
hard to say which of the young men had the
best of it with them. On the whole, perhaps,
the stars fought in their courses for Enables.
Donald would go back again and again to the
adventure on the hills above Lochrosque,
giving, as was only fair, the precedence in the
story to Leslie.

It's surely a sad piety, Miss Grace, that
both of them were born in the South ; but
there's not very many of us Highland people

would have done what Mr Leslie did. I would
have thought myself twice — ay, or perhaps
more times — before I would have gone down
over that rock, even for Grlenconan himself.
I would have gone, I hope ; though to me it
would have been certain destruction, for I'm
neither so young nor yet so light as I used to
be — and Mr Leslie is not that light, either.
But Peter, he will be telling me that Mr Leslie
just stepped over as if he had been setting his
foot in the ferry-boat below there. Many a
man might do that, and yet lose his head ;
but Mr Leslie was as cool — ay, as cool as a
shepherd in the drifts, or an otter in December.
Maybe Peter is a bit of a fool ; but his
eyes are as good as another's."

So far, so well. Donald would honestly
pay the tribute of admiration demanded by
Leslie's coolness and courage. But when his
conversation turned from the saviour to the
saved, it was then that he gave way to heartfelt
eloquence.

But after all, Miss Grace, it was worth
while chancing something for Mr Enables.
He's a fine young lad that ; ay, he's a very
fine young lad. If he did lose his head a bit

on the cliff, as Peter says, it was no wonder.
If it was not that he limit the sport so well, he
would never have chanced his neck for that
ill-smelling beast of a goat. I would not have
gone up among the rocks there myself for
anything less than a hart ; but the Southern
gentlemen have strange fancies. Mr Leslie is
a fine gentleman too, as G-lenconan's nephew
and your cousin ought to be, Miss Grace.
But he'll sit down in the heather when we
would be after a stalk ; and I've known him
drop off and go asleep, and never waken again,
till the deer was stalked and shot and to be
galloped. But as for Mr Enables, when
once he has set eyes on his stag, he'll bristle
up and settle down to the stalk like a sleuth-hound.
It's little he'll think then of the rocks
or of the burns. I've seen him when the blood
was running down off his hands, when the
water would be draining out of the pockets of
his ' knickerbogles ' ; and though he may have
the sense to hearken to a whisper from me, I
would be sorry to make a sound or do anything
unchancy. He's as good-humoured a
gentleman as G-lenconan himself; but then he
looks as ready to get up his back as Glenconan

or a wild cat : and 'deed, were he once to set
his teeth, I wadna trust him."

Which might not be an amiable trait in Mr
Enables's character, but which nevertheless
recommended him to his cousin rather than
otherwise. Like most women with anything
in them, perhaps she inclined by preference
to a man with a spice of the devil ; and in
that respect Enables resembled her father,
who was her ideal of chivalrous manhood. All
the more so that, as she often told herself,
there was something so winningly kind in
those sparkling eyes of his, when involuntarily
they seemed to soften as they met the glance
of her own.

CHAPTEK VI.

AN EMBARRASSING INTERVIEW.

Had the young men been cross-examined,
they must have frankly confessed that seldom
before had they been so happy as at Glenconan.
The days seemed to go gliding by
like the swift and silent night-flight of the
owl — though that is hardly an appropriate
metaphor, since the merriment was sometimes
noisy enough, and they chanced to be exceptionally
fortunate in sunshine. We should
rather say that the joyous Sun-god had greased
the wheels of his chariot, and was getting
over the ground at his best pace. But their
temperaments were very opposite, and thence
came a strange inconsistency. Leslie, though
earnest and thoughtful, was somewhat indolent,
and inclined to take life lazily. So long
as he was happy in the day, he left the morrow

to look after itself. Doubtless he might
have great latent reserves of power, but it
needed some strong stimulus to make him
draw upon them ; while Enables, who belonged
apparently to the butterfly order of
beings* was nevertheless profoundly interested
in his own future. He was bound to make
his own way in the world ; he was determined
to " arrive " sooner or later : so the most
agreeable halts in the pilgrimage were simply
sheer waste of time. He could never lie down
upon a couch of rose-leaves, without the prick
of a thorn making him inclined to spring up
again. Conscience played the part of the
metropolitan policeman, and was perpetually
bidding him get up and move on.

How far he really cared for his cousin — how
far, at least, he had fallen in love with her —
was a point that he had not carefully considered.
Had he been born to a handsome
independence he would have probably paid
his court to her and proposed. But he shrank
from the nuisance of thoughts that worried ;
and it was a standing trouble to him that he
must spend labour and time to attain the
easy position where he might indulge his love

and his ambition. Even if he hurried uphill
by the shortest conceivable cuts, how many
inestimable opportunities might be missed in
the meantime ! That, however, was the more
reason for hastening his start, and making up
his mind as to the choice of a profession. His
father did not count for much in the way of
an adviser ; and self-reliant as he was, he felt he
should be all the better for the sage counsels
of experience. He had an infinite respect for
the successful lord of Glenconan, and he knew
that he was a favourite with his genial uncle.
If he had vague fancies of some day making
love to Miss Grace, it might be well that her
father should be taken into his preliminary
counsels, sharing the credit of his success or
lightening the responsibility of failure. For
Mr Enables, though thoroughly honest at
heart, plumed himself on the shrewdness of
his social diplomacy, and believed that you
could hardly pay a more delicate compliment
than in discreetly appealing for advice to a
veteran's experience.

To do him justice, he had never for a moment
dreamed of Moray offering him pecuniary
help ; and even with his ill-defined feelings as

to that gentleman's heiress, his pride would
have shrunk sensitively from accepting it.
But Moray, as we know, viewed the matter
differently, and was pleased, and at the same
time somewhat curious, when Jack with unwonted
solemnity requested half an hour's
quiet conversation. He was anxious too, for
his daughter was always in his thoughts.

"Does the young dog mean to make a proposal
in form ? " he asked himself. " Nothing
is more natural than that he should have
fallen in love ; so with his coolness, I can
almost fancy him capable of that. And yet
I do him wrong : he is too much of a gentleman."


Jack's opening speech relieved his uncle's
anxiety. The youth began abruptly, almost
bluntly.

"You see, sir, it is high time I was doing
something for myself; and I know nobody
more capable of advising me."

And I know nobody more willing to advise
you ; so go ahead, my good boy, and let me
hear you state the case."

Which Jack did lucidly and succinctly. He
had no money, or next to none ; he saw no

opening in any special direction ; he might
possibly get a place in some Government
office ; but he strongly objected to monotonous
routine, and would never live contented on a
moderate income — unless indeed he had failed
again and again, and felt that the luck had
gone fairly against him.

As he spoke, the feelings of Moray's own
youth came back to his memory, and he
heartily sympathised with the young fellow,
who had a spirit so much like his own.
Master Jack's seasonable frankness had done
him more good than he fancied. But Moray
was a prudent Scotchman, and did not care to
commit himself hastily.

What does your father say to it all ? Of
course you have spoken to him."

My father is the best man in the world ;
and if he happened to be an archbishop with
plenty of patronage, my father, if I assented
to his wishes, would make things smooth
enough. As it is, he would like me to go into
the Church, and trust to teaching quietly in
his footsteps. But he has no livings to give
away, and he never asked a favour in his life ;
and besides, too, I can't think it honest to

mount the surplice when you don't feel the
slightest vocation for the altar."

Quite right, my boy ! " Moray ejaculated.

Then, again, seeing that the Church is too
respectable for me, I might be an artist. No
objection to that, I should say, on the score of
hypocrisy, for the most brilliant of artists maybe
as Bohemian as he likes. But though I
have a decided fancy that way, I misdoubt my
talent ; and unless a gentleman be a genius, he
should not take to painting."

No doubt of it," returned Moray, who,
though in theory he admired artists, and
would have consecrated chapels to a Titian ora
Velasquez, by no means fancied the idea of
a kinsman of his own failing, as he believed
that Mr Enables was bound to fail.

Well then, sir," said Jack, rather ruefully,
I come back to my starting-point, — that I
have the world before me, and the question
is as to the direction to steer. To think
that at this very instant I may be hesitating
at the enfranchisement of a dozen of paths —
that it is eleven to one that I strike a wrong
one, and miss the way that leads straight upto
fortune ! Oh for a glimmering of your

Celtic second-sight ! Possibly Mr Boss would
be the person to advise with."

Moray laughed. " If you really are standing
where a dozen paths branch off, you cannot
be blamed for not seeing the invisible.
But so far as I can gather, you are in the
middle of a mist, and are inclined to trust
to your luck to group your way out of it.
And there, perhaps, I, who am a Highlander,
can help you, as Donald has helped you in
similar difficulties ere now."

Then Mr Moray spoke out in a manner that
took his nephew altogether aback. When
Moray placed himself or his means at another's
disposal, he was not a man to do things by
halves.

I like you, Jack, as you may have partly
remarked ; and I'm an old fellow without any
son of my own. Oh yes, I know I have a
daughter, and I am never likely to forget it ;
but so far as present appearances go, Grace
will be richer than may be altogether good
for her. In any case. I have enough and
to spare. I don't mean to adopt you. I
don't propose to treat you as my son and
heir. I would not do any such injury to a

VOL. I. H

spirited young man as to deprive him of all
incentives to exertion. But setting you
straight in some direction, and giving you a
lift along, is a different affair altogether. I
loved my wife well — I lost her only too soon ;
and I should be very happy to do something
for her kinsman. The question is, What ?
I am sorry now that I should have disposed
of my interests in the East ; but I was in
haste to come back and give Grace a home
here. I have good friends there still, however.
But, like me, you would have to begin the
climb at the beginning ; and money is more
slowly made than it used to be."

He paused a moment, expecting very possibly
that Jack would nevertheless jump at
the suggestion, remembering his after-dinner
speech some days before, when apostrophising
the show of plate on the buffet. And had
he made such an offer then, Jack would most
certainly have eagerly accepted. Now the
young man would have been more surprised
at his own hesitation, had not his mind
been illuminated by a sudden self-revelation.
Brought to the point and spurred to the leap,
he could not decide at once to leave his cousin

behind him. Indefinite exile meant absolute
separation. He hummed and hawed, and was
sensible of a confusion which brought unwonted
blushes to his comely countenance.

Nor was his embarrassment diminished by
Moray's demeanour. That gentleman had
liked his nephew for his adventurous dash, and
was loath to think he had been mistaken
in him. But putting himself in Jack's place,
and carrying himself back to Jack's age, he
knew how the launch into Eastern life would
have tempted him, with the hazards that
would make patience seem more than tolerable
; and pluck without perseverance seemed
to him a poor quality. Jack felt that he was
being misunderstood by the man with whom,
above all others, he desired to stand well.
His face grew redder ; he lost all his usual
composure, and he felt the fool he knew he
looked. Moray saw that some concealment,
"like a worm i' the bud," was flushing his
young favourite's damask cheek, and good-naturedly
made an effort to come to the
rescue.

You spoke of missing chances, my boy ;
and you may miss a good one now, if you do

not give me your absolute confidence. Whatever
you may have in your mind, speak it out.
I pledge myself that I shall not think any the
worse of you."

A reckless " tu la voulu, George Dandin"
feeling took possession of Enables, and carried
him away. His uncle ordered him to be
frank ; and frank he would be, with a vengeance,
come of it what might. It was like taking a
header from the rocks into the rapids ; and
how he might come out again, who should
say? He had no time to reflect, and could
only act upon impulse. " In five minutes I
may get my dismissal, and be told to pack my
traps. Never mind : here goes — nothing venture,
nothing win." And although he stammered
when [he began, he was astonished to
find that his very vague ideas found persuasive
expression.

To his inexpressible delight and relief,
Moray seemed less taken aback than might
have been expected. At all events, he listened
silently and calmly, while Jack, premising that
he intended an immediate departure from
Glenconan, went on to speak of an attachment
to his cousin.

I scarcely knew my own mind, sir, till you
brought me to book ; but what would yesterday
have been the fulfilment of my fondest
dreams, means nothing to-day but a sentence
of transportation : and if I dare to say as
much, it is only because I may at once be
put out of my misery. I think I can never
be happy without Grace ; I know that I am
never likely to be made happy with her : so
give me a word of forgiveness, and let me go
in peace."

Moray stroked his moustache and bent his
head in silence. Jack, who had suppressed
himself after his effort of audacity, began to
gain heart again and rise slowly, like a 
whose springs have been
temporarily flattened. Visions of an Eden
with an Eve in it were opening before him.
Was it possible that his uncle meant to fold
him in his arms, ring for Grace, and send
down the curtain with a melodramatic " Bless
you, my children, and be happy " ? The idea
was dismissed as soon as entertained, though
there was ample room left for encouragement.


Most men in my place might have been

angry, Master Jack ; and I don't know what
her mother might have said to you. But I
admire your candour ; and, after all, there is
nothing criminal nor very surprising in your
feelings. Quite the contrary. , Perhaps it
was my fault that you and Grace have been
thrown so constantly together. For reasons
of my own, I have never set my heart on my
girl making what they call a great marriage.
She is sure to be well off, though she may be
less rich than you suppose. No, you needn't
protest ; I don't suspect you of loving my
daughter for her ' tocher.' And in any case —
be it said without offence — she will be far more
than a match for a penniless young adventurer.
But if she did chance to take a fancy to you
or to Leslie " — there Jack winced — " and if
you could contribute a fair share towards the
housekeeping, so that you might marry without
loss of self-respect, why, I should not
stand in the way of your wishes. Not that
that advances you very far, you will say,"
seeing that Jack remained silent and nonplussed,
" since you have no means at all, and
we are merely considering ways. You don't
expect my daughter to wait for you, I presume

; but if she should happen to be disengaged
when you are in a position to apply, I
may make no serious objections. Mark me,
young man, though I talk lightly, I mean
seriously. I am sure I may trust to your
honour not to compromise Grace in anyway."


I have not the slightest reason to believe
that my cousin cares for me. And besides,"
he added, after a moment's pause, "with
your permission I shall leave Glenconan tomorrow."


Softly, softly ! You are always ice or
fire. Were you to beat a retreat without
sound of drum, it might make talk — or
mischief — that had better be avoided. Give
me your word, and stay with us for another
week ; longer delay might be dangerous — for
you. I take that as settled ; and I may have
something to say both to you and Leslie, ere
you leave — for be it understood that I am not
bound to you in any way, so far as those
aspirations of yours are concerned. And now
to come back to your immediate concerns, —
for as to these, you have more reason than
before to command me,"

"Believe me, I heartily appreciate your
generosity, but help from you has become
out of the question."

How now, young man ? " said Moray,
sternly — and Enables saw how his uncle
could look when he was angry, — "how now?
Do you dare to tell me you are offended by
language that most people would call foolish
and weak ? "

God forbid, sir ! How can you misunderstand
me ? I should have thought your own
high spirit would have been more in sympathy
with mine. From my uncle and very kind
friend I might gratefully have accepted anything.
By my frank avowal I have abandoned
all hope of your help, for I can take
nothing from the father of the heiress on
whom I have rashly set some hopes. I said
I stood at the cross-roads ; and it appears I
have struck into a wrong one — that is all."

Nonsense, man ! " exclaimed Moray, with
extreme cordiality. "Confound the fellow!"
he muttered to himself; "if he were to make
love to Grace as he does to me, he would win
her heart in a hand-gallop. Nonsense, man !
let the night and the next day or two bring

counsel. You shall stay here on your parole
for another week ; and before you leave for
the South, we may see our way somewhat
more clearly as to your future arrangements,"
a prediction which proved to be true, though
not precisely as Mr Moray had expected.

CHAPTER VII.

STIRRING UP OF STRIFE.

It must be owned, that after an interview of
the kind, the position of any young man in
Enables's place would have been somewhat
distressing. He prided himself on his savoir
vivre : he could carry off a sense of awkwardness
as well as most people ; and his cousin's
innocent unconsciousness helped him. Yet
his manner towards her had changed, and he
knew it ; and he was in perpetual terror that
she might ask for an explanation. Alone with
her, he was comparatively at his ease ; but he
was embarrassed — very unnecessarily — when
her father's eye was upon them. Where Moray
trusted, he trusted implicity : if he had not
trusted his nephew, he would never have
spoken as he had spoken ; and although, doubtless,
he may have meditated over the matter a

good deal, it was not with reference to anything
passing before him. And Jack might
perhaps have felt more at his ease in one
respect, had he known that Leslie occupied his
uncle's thoughts nearly as much as himself.
But it was in his sanguine nature to jump to
conclusions ; and when certain trifling preliminary
obstacles should have been smoothed
away, including the choice of a profession and
lucrative success in it, he pictured a happy
couple launched on a pleasant wedding-trip,
with wind and tide and everything in their
favour.

Yet, characteristically enough, it was not
only the thought, " Were Grace to catechise
me, what in the world should I answer ? " that
gave him a vast deal of needless anxiety.
Musing over a possible engagement, and the
minor questions that would arise out of it,
the speculations of the ridiculous young man
ran somewhat in this wise —

I suppose if I were to marry the heiress
of Glenconan, my uncle would insist on my
taking the family name. Well, there need be
no objection to that. Enables-Moray would
sound well enough, and I might even make

such a sacrifice to love as to sink my patronymic,
and style myself Moray alone. But
then he might wish us to spend the best part
of the year in Glenconan ; and Grace is already
falling passionately in love with the place. I
like it myself, but I don't like the climate.
Scotland, except in the picturesqueness of the
Highlands, is only a colder and a bleaker England
; and England, for that matter, is bleak
enough. After all, however, climate and
scenery are secondary points ; and Grace, if
she were persuaded to love me, is just the sort
of girl to be amenable. It would be a case of
my people shall be thy people,' &c, — not that
I would ask her to make unreasonable sacrifices.
And then my profession, whatever it
may be, would be reason sufficient for our
living elsewhere. Glenconan would never give
me Grace if he thought I meant to live upon
her money."

Then waking out of his Alnaschar - like
dreams, he might glance across at Leslie half
guiltily, and think how that sensible individual
would laugh at him did he guess at all that
was passing in his mind. And perhaps, on the
whole, it had hitherto been as well for Leslie

that lie was profoundly ignorant of what was
going on.

Then, being diverted from one train of
thought, Jack's lively brain would take another
turn, and towards a point that perhaps
ought to have been settled in the first place.
He would ask himself how far he was really in
love, and whether the passion was likely to
last. He knew he was extremely fond of
Grace, and each day he grew fonder and more
fond. But then she was a girl who deserved
a husband who would worship her, and past
experiences had led him to doubt his own
capacity for permanent adoration. He was
shrewd enough to see, that with all her spirits
and brightness, if she gave herself to a man,
she would give herself unreservedly, and take
love so thoroughly in earnest that disappointment
might wreck her life.

But, " Bah ! that morbid conscientiousness
of mine is the best guarantee I can offer of my
constancy. I know I am tremendously fond
of her now ; she is just the sort of girl to gain
on one, day by day ; and looking at our joint
future in that light, our happiness will be an
incalculable quantity. In any case, there is

nothing pressing, since honour ties my tongue
in the meantime."

As for his uncle's offers, on more mature
consideration he had pretty nearly made up
his mind to accept them. " Pride is all very
well up to a certain point ; but pride pushed
to extremes would in this case be an insult, or
at all events my uncle would be apt to take it
as one. I shall never forget how he flared up
the other day, with a blaze in his eye like a
stag breaking bay, or one of his ancestors
ordering a malefactor to pit and gallows. So
I suppose I may as well make up my mind to
be helped ; though all the same, I wish I could
have managed otherwise."

Possibly that sweet spirit of resignation,
that generous resolution to suffer himself to
be enriched, may have brought their reward.
The day before that of his intended departure,
Mr Enables received a business letter. No
presentiment warned him of the nature of the
contents ; on the contrary, he by no means
liked the look of it. Though not very seriously
indebted, he had run sundry " ticks "
at the university and in town ; and when he
saw the sinister blue envelope and the stiff

handwriting, — " A dun, for a thousand ! " was
his natural ejaculation. On tearing it open,
evil omens seemed to thicken. The communication
was dated from Lincoln-inn-fields,
and signed by an unknown firm of lawyers.
With a very wry face he began to run his
eye over it, and this is what Mr Enables
read : —

"Dear Sir, — We have the honour of informing
you that, under the testamentary
dispositions of the late Mr Isaac Philpotts,
of 790 Simple Street, and of Brick Court,
Temple, you become entitled to the amount
of £10,000, free of legacy duty. As the personality
of our deceased client is chiefly invested
in consols, there need be no delay in
realising it.

"We shall either transfer the sum as invested
at the current prices of the clay, or
expect your instructions as to manner of
payment.

Annexed receive an extract from the will
of our late client. — And we have the honour
to remain your obedient servants,

"COX, Grinder, & Grocer."

Extract from Will of the late Isaac
Philpotts, Esq., Q.C.

"Also I leave and bequeath to John Enables,
eldest son of the Bev. Cyril Enables,
of Oakham Rectory, Sussex, the sum of ten
thousand pounds, free of legacy duty. And I
desire it to be understood that I bequeath the
said sum in memory of early and affectionate
intimacy with an old school and college companion,
believing that I shall best gratify my
friend by assuring a moderate provision to his
eldest son."

Jack read, and rubbed his eyes. His first
idea was, that he was the victim of a heartless
and aggravating hoax. On second thoughts,
that seemed even more improbable than the
marvellous piece of good-luck that had befallen
him at a most critical moment. Though he
had never seen Mr Philpotts in the flesh, he
had often heard his father speak of him as an
able and eccentric old man, who had made
a figure and a fortune as a parliamentary
counsel, and who, in the bustle of his busy
professional life, had altogether ignored early
associations.

Anyhow," as Jack remarked, gratefully
and philosophically, " his eccentricity, were it
madness, had a pleasant method about it ; and
if any disappointed relatives should dispute
the will, this judicious legacy should be proof
of sanity."

He was a free-handed young fellow as ever
lived ; and of all the vices that grow upon us
with age, least of all was he contaminated by
that of avarice. Yet it was a strange proof of
the dangerous power of gold, that, on calmly
realising the news, he found they almost
intoxicated him. He had read his letter on
the gravel-sweep in front of the house, and he
started off for a walk, or rather a run, through
the shrubberies. His lungs expanded with a
sense of his good fortune — with a feeling that
the legacy was the sign of a prosperous future.
He left the shrubberies and climbed the hill,
jumping from rock to rock and on to slippery
stones, while his feet seemed to be winged like
those of the feather-footed Mercury, who, by
the way, was the Mammon of pagan mythology.
He confounded the piece of good fortune
with his personal deserts, and respected
Providence for having so seasonably smiled on

VOL. I. I

him. In the new-born feeling of independence,
he might cordially accept the offer he had
hitherto hesitated over. He would decline
his uncle's money, but gratefully accept his
uncle's help. He might trade upon his energy
and talents, in the assurance of speedy returns;
and, with a modest competency but magnificent
reversions, might mate with any gentlewoman
of average position, even were she his
pretty and well-dowered cousin of Glenconan.
And the thought brought him back to the
prosaic fact, that it would be but kind and
civil promptly to communicate the contents of
the despatch to the relatives who were to be
still nearer and dearer.

He was a good fellow, though rather feather-brained
as yet ; and want of liberality, as we
have said, was not his failing, though he seemed
as keenly set upon the quest of gold as any of
the Argonauts. As it happened, he had the
purse in his pocket that was fairly well-filled
for his journey. Peter, the stupid gillie, had
the good-luck to cross his path as he came
bounding homewards from the hill like a
roebuck.

Ah, Peter, my man, you know I am going

South in a day or two ; here's a trifle in remembrance
of that bit of work of ours on
Lochrosque."

Indeed his prodigality needed some excuse,
and tears came to Peter's eye and his voice
trembled as he thanked the generous young
Saxon gentleman for a sum which meant the
ease and happiness of next winter to the wife
and bairns on Loch Hour. As for Jack himself,
he was richly rewarded : it was a new
sensation to know that money giving could
bring so much pleasure. He vowed that he
would lay the lesson to heart, and soon he
found another occasion of practising it. It was
only turning aside for a dozen of paces or so,
and he came upon Donald Ross hammering
away industriously at grouse-boxes. Forth
came the portemonnaie again, and the head-keeper
was gratified with a proportionally
liberal donation. Now Donald was a Scot
who appreciated hard cash ; for though he
might probably die a pensioner of Glenconan,
he meant to leave as little as possible to
chance, and hoped to guarantee himself against
old age and the rheumatism.

At the same time, he had a heart and a

conscience ; and the young kinsmen of his
master were charges of his own. He shook
his head as he weighed the glittering coins in
his palm, and then he tendered three or four
of them back again.

"No, no, Mr Enables. I know, as the
minister well remarked the other Sabbath,
when he was giving us a discourse for the
maintaining of foreign missions, that the
liberal soul will be made fat — not that putting
on fat is any good thing to a gentleman
who cares greatly about the shooting and the
stalking. But if you would forgive my saying
it, when ye offered me all that gold, it
brought to my mind another saying, though
I am not just sure that ye will find it in the
Scriptures."

I believe T can guess, Donald," rejoined
Jack, quick as a gun-flash, with a laugh and
a blush. "Fools and their money — hey? —
was that about it, Mr Donald?"

It's not for the like of me to contradict
your honour," said Donald, demurely.
Though, mind you, Mr Enables, I would
sooner have bitten out my tongue than spoken
it. But you're but a young man, sir, and I'm

an old one that likes you ; and — Glenconan
himself, for all his open hand, would never
have given half as much."

Jack, though slightly offended, stood embarrassed
and self - condemned. " The old
keeper is a gentleman, and I'm a snob. Well,
well, Donald," he went on, "I daresay you
may be right. Keep the sovereigns you did
keep, and leave the rest with the minister for
those missions you were speaking of. Do
what you will with them, in short. At any
rate, you won't refuse me a shake of the
hand ; " and suiting the action to the word,
he grasped the hand of the keeper. Then
turning on his heel, he sought Glenconan in
his " study."

The "study" was of course the most uncomfortable
den in the house ; and the surroundings,
in the shape of rods and landing-nets,
account - books, &c, seemed singularly
unfavourable to literary pursuits — which was
of the less consequence, that the occupier was
essentially a man of action, and very little of
a bookworm. He listened to his nephew's
piece of news with extreme satisfaction. He
sympathised with the unexpressed feelings of

the young man, in that Jack was relieved from
the anxiety of laying himself under pecuniary
obligations. Like Jack, perhaps he saw omens
of good-luck in the windfall that had come in
so very opportunely. And after a short and
business - like talk, the couple came to an
identical conclusion.

There, there ! that's agreed," said Moray.
You understand that you may count on me
to forward your views in any reasonable direction
; and in the meantime, you go to Sussex
and discuss matters with your father. You
are bound to consult him before deciding; on
anything."

I could not have a more affectionate adviser,
at all events," rejoined the young man,
warmly. " And with you to consult upon
practical points, I would not take a quarter
of a million for my chances. Indeed, if Mr
Philpotts had left me a quarter of a million
instead of this legacy of £10,000, all the salt
and fun would have been taken out of the
future."

All things considered, it might well have
been supposed that Jack's immediate plans
were pretty well settled, as, until he had

talked them over with his father, he was
pledged to take no decided steps. But being
a far-sighted youth, with a craving for sympathy,
he thought that it might be well to
take his cousin into his confidence. As she
might probably be profoundly interested in
that future of his, it was only fair that he
should have her views about it.

And a less impressionable heart than Jack's
might have been touched by the unfeigned
delight with which she heard of his good fortune.
Indeed natural vanity was nearly persuading
him that she must feel a persona]
interest in the matter.

What a dear, thoughtful old gentleman
Mr Philpotts must have been ! What a pity
he lived and died a bachelor ? " she added,
sympathetically.

I don't know about that," laughed Jack.
"You see, if he had left half-a-dozen of children,
I should certainly have never come in for
my legacy. And," he went on, more seriously,
it may be a matter of the last importance tome."


For Jack was already half forgetting himself
in indulging his new sense of freedom.

Penniless, he had undertaken to do nothing in
the way of love-making ; but now he felt that
he was hardly breaking faith in feeling his
way for his own satisfaction.

Grace evidently did not understand him in
any way. She raised her arched eyebrows
with a certain subdued scorn, and her delicate
nostril curled with something like contempt.
Having always had the command of money,
she thought very little of it ; and though a
handsome legacy might doubtless be a subject
for congratulation, anything like excessive appreciation
of it struck her as sordid.

Jack saw the unfortunate impression he had
made, and regretted a false step. If he did
not explain and apologise, he might do himself
irreparable injury with the woman with
whom he most desired to stand well. On the
other hand, he remembered the promise to her
father. His usual presence of mind forsook
him, and he stammered, hesitated, and turned
painfully red. His confusion served him better
than the plainest speech. Grace, with
ready feminine intuition, more than half suspected
the truth. She rapidly followed Jack's
mental struggles, and coloured up like him as

she reproached herself for having misconceived
him. She fancied she understood the delicacy
that had dictated his reserve ; she knew
that she had nothing to fear in the shape of a
precipitate proposal : the blush died away as
she recovered self-command, and her composure
contrasted with her cousin's confusion.
Confused as he was, Jack was quick-sighted
as usual. He had seen the blush, and it considerably
cheered him, though he did not
attach undue importance to it.

What a deal of luck there is in this
world ! " he reflected. " If my face had not
played me false for once, I must have gone
away leaving Grace in utter ignorance ; and
then, who knows what might have happened ?
She might have come to like Leslie as well as
I do — or better."

Then, with something of the wisdom of the
serpent, he made an excuse to bring the interview
to a conclusion, and left his pretty cousin
to her meditations. But being a right-minded
youth in the mam, and honourable to boot,
the idea that he had betrayed himself troubled
his conscience. " If my uncle knew what has
passed, he might have good reason to be indignant.

It was no fault of mine, to be sure ;
but appearances would be decidedly against
me. I believe that the straightest course is
the safest, and that I ought to go to him and
make a clean breast of it."

And as he feared to go back on that bold
resolution, he struck while the iron was hot,
and went straight to his uncle. Do what he
would, or blunder as he might, it seemed that
his conduct was to commend him to that gentleman.
Moray shook his head as he listened
to the confession, but at the same time admired
his nephew's candour.

Well, as you say, perhaps you were hardly
to blame ; and as yet, at least, there can be
no great harm done. Grace's heart is free,
and you are going to leave us tomorrow."
At which double-barrelled delivery of small-shot
Jack winced perceptibly. And he flinched
still more unmistakably when this eccentric
father went on —

You have been frank enough with me —
too frank, perhaps, with Grace ; and so, for
her sake, and to countercheck that uncontrollable
move of yours, I am decided to be as
frank with Leslie as with you, and more frank

than I had intended. You agree with me —
and it strikes me that Leslie is of our opinion
that Grace is a girl in a thousand. Hitherto
she has seen next to nothing of society. She
will marry, of course, sooner or later ; but
there is no need to press her upon any man."
Jack half interrupted with a gesture of indignant
protest, but Moray went on imperturbably.
" There is no need, I say, to throw herat
any man ; and, as I told you before, I shall
not attempt to influence her choice, so long as
she sets her affections on a gentleman of birth,
with a spotless character and decent means.
I mentioned, too, that she may not be so rich
as you suppose. Be that as it may, she must
not be hurried to commit herself, by her feelings,
or her fancy, or anything else. I don't
know much about young ladies or their fancies,
more's the pity; but it strikes me that
this secret of yours which she has surprised,
may fill her thoughts to her harm, and she
may possibly build up a romance on it before
we know where we are. I promised you fair-play,
but nothing more ; and my daughter is
nearer and dearer to me than you can be, so I
shall speak to Leslie as I have spoken to you,

and leave him to regulate his conduct accordingly.
From the first, Grace shall have the
chance of selection, so far as her limited opportunities
go. Moreover, when Leslie has left us,
and before the beginning of the grouse-shooting,
I shall carry her off, by way of distraction,
to pay some visits. There are old family
friendships that ought to be renewed, and it is
high time she saw something more of her fellow-creatures."


And Moray's keen grey eyes, that nevertheless
had much of the kindness of his daughter's,
looked straight into those of his young
favourite. Original or eccentric as his conduct
might be, Mr Enables was persuaded that he
knew his own mind, and was acting on some
principle, however peculiar — and to a certain
extent he did understand, being anything but
dull of perception. So far, in all honour
and good-nature, they were exchanging passes
with the foils. Jack had been more than
indiscreet in giving Grace a glimpse at the
state of his feelings. Moray parried and returned
the thrust by putting Leslie forward
as a probable rival, besides opening up a vista
of possibilities in the shape of eligible young

men in pleasant country-houses. Mr Enables
was to have fair-play, but no particular favour;
and in the reaction from sanguine expectation
to sad despondency, he felt that, in spite of
his legacy and his hopes, he was still a mere
outsider in the betting. So that Moray's
quickly delivered thrust had touched just ashe
might have intended. At the same time,
mortified and disappointed as he was, Jack
could not help exercising his active mind on
the metaphysical problem presented to it.

I've heard and seen something of matchmaking
mothers, but hang me if I understand
this match-making father ! He's devoted to
his daughter, as well he may be ; he starts
from the incontrovertible truth that he need
not throw her at anybody's head ; he's a man
of the world, if ever there was one, — and yet
he practically offers Grace to me or to Leslie,
and apparently proposes, moreover, to hawk her
about in half the houses of the Highlands, as
if he were bound to match her against time
under heavy penalties. What I see most
clearly in the business is, that he credits Leslie
and me with the tempers of angels, or he
would never cast such an apple of discord

between us. But if I do have Kalph for a
rival, it shall be all fair and above - board
between us. I don't forget that I owe him
my life, though the time may come when it
will cost me something to remember it."

And indeed Moray, who meant excellently
well by both his young kinsmen, being chiefly
preoccupied with the future of his child, had
altogether ignored the awkward complications
that might come of the stirring up of angry
passions. Undoubtedly the fond father, unconsciously
to himself, seemed to be playing
the mischief-maker as well as the matchmaker.


CHAPTER VIII.

A MEETING AT THE CROSS-TRACKS.

When Jack Enables spoke of standing in
hesitation at cross-ways on the road of life, he
did not carry the metaphor quite so far as he
might have done. "Were we favoured by the
sight of a sketch-map of our track through the
world, we should see that there were side-paths
perpetually branching off, which to all appearance
we might just as probably have followed
to our misfortune or our signal advantage.
While in any general biographical chart, illustrating
the career of sundry individuals, we
should see the paths of others striking into our
own by the most unexpected turns at the least
likely places ; so that two men thrown together
by accident or Providence shall thereafter walk
on together side by side, or possibly even arm
in arm.

As he fancied, it was nothing more than a
caprice which decided Mr Enables to go south
by sea, instead of establishing communications
with the Southern Express at Perth. As he
remarked to his uncle, whom he still politically
took into his confidence, " I may as well think
matters quietly over, before having a serious
talk with my father : it will be better that I
have something cut and dry to suggest."

Moray, of course, made no objection : the
route by which his young friend might travel
was a matter of perfect indifference to him.
As for Jack, he knew himself too well to
imagine that he could ever think when he
wished to think. With his mercurial disposition
and nervous temperament, he put far more
faith in quick inspirations, influenced by consideration
of circumstances on the spur of the
moment, or possibly by the chapter of accidents.
But he had resolved to embark on one
of the Highland coasting - steamers at Port
Sligachan, simply because he liked the idea
of a sea-voyage.

The very day he settled that impromptu
plan, a gentleman of sympathetic nature,
though, as the Americans say, an entire

stranger to him, came to a similar decision in
the Isle of Skye. The Honourable Wilfred
Winstanley had all his life been addicted to
impulses, though he nevertheless had made his
way in the world very successfully. One night
he had gone to bed in the state-chamber of
Castle Somerset in a less serene frame of mind
than was usual with him. For the most part
he was good-nature itself, as a man ought to
be on whom fortune had smiled very steadily.
His host's Lafitte had tasted sour ; there had
been no savour in the entrees; he had been
vexed to find himself " doggish and snappish,"
as a worthy Quaker used to remark in his diary.
Altogether, when he took his bedroom candle
to go up-stairs he felt strangely out of sorts,
and he went to bed to toss and tumble under
the blankets. Towards the small hours his
sensations gave shape to his suspicions, and
he turned out of bed into the dawn to confirm
these.

Gout, by Jove ! I thought as much," was
his rueful verdict, as he gazed on a swelling
toe that blushed under his anxious examination.
Gout, by Jove ! and I'll be bound Willis has
brought no colchicum. It's true that I have

VOL. I. K

not had an attack for a couple of years. Just
like my luck," he added, with the fractious injustice
of a spoiled child ; " it's choosing to lay
hold of me in this heaven-forsaken Patmos,
where the doctors are sure to smell of spirits
and peat-smoke, and their drugs can't be worth
the bottles they put them in. Well, if I am to
be ill, I'll be ill in Berkeley Square, — always
supposing I don't break down in making a bolt
for it."

And when Willis appeared with his master's
hot water, he received orders to make inquiries
as to steamers, but to pack immediately
in any case.

Should no steamer be expected to-day,
you will go and bargain for a tug, or something
of that kind."

And Willis, who had been broken to passive
obedience, and who had long before ceased to
be surprised at anything, if he shrugged his
shoulders metaphorically, simply answered
with a "Yes, sir."

As it happened, a cargo-steamer, carrying-passengers
when it could pick them up, had
come the day before into the adjacent harbour,
and having received prompt despatch

from the company's agents, was prepared to
weigh anchor in the forenoon. Lord Somerset,
Mr Winstanley's noble host, protested
vehemently against his friend's departure.
Mr Winstanley was profuse of apologies, but
inflexible. It was altogether for Lord Somerset's
sake that he left. He had made a rule
of never being laid up in a friend's house
when he could help it, and it was a rule he
had never hitherto departed from.

Nothing would tempt me to victimise you,
my dear fellow. It would be flying in the
face of all my principles. I hope I'm unselfish
before everything, and I know my duty to my
neighbour better than that."

So his lordship did what the valet did not
venture on. He presumed on a long acquaintance
so far as to shrug his shoulders openly,
and ordered the carriage to drive Mr Winstanley
to the harbour.

To do Mr Winstanley bare justice, however
precipitate his impulses, he acted upon them
with rare determination. Even to himself he
would have been loath to acknowledge that,
not to put too fine a point on it," he had
made a fool of himself. Yet we will not

undertake to say that he had not some searchings
of heart, when he hobbled on his sounder
foot across the greasy decks of the Cuchullin.
We could almost aver that when he was assisted
down the battered brass-bound steps of
the dark companion, and had stumbled into
the gloom of his strong-smelling little cabin,
he wafted a sigh of soft regret towards the
comfortable quarters he had precipitately
quitted. If he suffered, however, like the
impenitent cardinal, he "made no sign"; and
suffer he certainly did, in body if not in spirit.
The shaking of a carriage is far from being a
sovereign specific for a sharp attack of gout
that has quickly developed itself. If we were
to give a non - professional diagnosis of his
symptoms, we should say that he felt as if
the roomy slipper he was wearing had suddenly
become several sizes too small for him ;
as if a cook had been scientifically scoring the
ailing foot in the fashion in which you prepare
a snatch-cocked chicken, subsequently rubbing
in the mustard and Worcester sauce, not by
any means forgetting the cayenne ; and as if
a spark or two from the glowing kitchen-fire
had flown and lodged themselves under the

toe - nail. In such circumstances the Stoic
may make no sign, but his temper will not
be of the sweetest.

"When his blinking eyes had accustomed
themselves to the dimness, Winstanley cast a
disconsolate glance around him. The low-roofed
cabin showed wear and tear, and the
panels stood sorely in need of reprinting.
The table and the seats in the centre were
fixtures, and it needed dexterous navigation
to thread the narrow passage between them
and the surrounding lockers and horse-hair
sofas ; while a man over the middle height,
unless he stooped his head, must infallibly
bump it against the blackened beams above.
But Mr Winstanley, though he loved his luxuries,
was an old traveller : he had been in
queer places and seen strange things ; nor did
he expect in a Hebrides cattle-boat to find
the comforts of a Cunard Liner. Had it not
been for that abominable gout, he would have
enjoyed the novel experience rather than
otherwise. And, the gout notwithstanding,
he merely made a grimace when the shockheaded
and courteous individual who officiated
as steward, in answer to his inquiry as

to an available berth, pointed to one of the
tattered sofas.

"Ye see, sir, we're no just that weel provided
with state-cabins," said the man apologetically,
as if some half-dozen were already-engaged,
and they would have arranged to
have one or two more had they expected his
honour's arrival.

If only I have no companions in my
misery," murmured Winstanley, resignedly ;
and supporting himself on his valet's shoulder,
he painfully regained the deck. But even
that very natural wish was not to be gratified.

I guess, stranger, I must have done you
a mischief, and seems, judging from your limp
when you came aboard, that you had been
sorter crippled already."

The apology, such as it was, came from a
lank, wiry figure, in a tall stove-pipe hat, and
a suit of go-tormenting garments ; and Winstanley,
although he had been repeatedly in
America, detested Americans of a certain class.
And assuredly an apology of some sort was
due, since this particular citizen of the States
had brought down his foot upon Mr Instantly's
afflicted member, making that dignified

gentleman pirouette on one leg, with his hand
on his servant's shoulder as the pivot of the
movement. Hobbling off in rage and pain,
he did not care to prolong the conversation ;
but the ejaculation he uttered, when beyond
ear-shot of his assailant, made a Scotch minister,
similarly attired in black, turn up his eyes
in silent protestation. It was seldom that
Mr Winstanley so far forgot himself. He
hated the clergyman for that silent reproof,
but he was still more annoyed with himself
for having given cause for it.

Ere he had forgiven himself or regained his
composure, the vessel was under way. She
was a narrow, deep-waisted screw, indifferently
manned, and apparently much overloaded.
At least it struck our friend, who had been at
sea in all manner of craft, that she was down
by the head and thoroughly out of trim. She
carried a load of sheep and black cattle forward,
besides a score or two of Celts, who
might be bound for the herring-fishing ; and
the deck abaft the funnel was hampered with
a miscellaneous pile of mixed goods, so that
her few hands had little room to move about.
I hope we may have fair weather," was his

passing prayer ; but his mind was chiefly preoccupied
with his malady, as was only natural.
The stamp of the American's heavy boot was
still throbbing and thrilling through all his
fevered pulses ; and as the green shores of the
land-locked bay seemed to slip past the stationary
steamer, he paid no sort of attention
to the scenery. But as a sense of soothing
succeeded to acute torments, a change came
over the spirit of his dreams. The American's
violent remedy had brought temporary relief :
instead of being worse, he felt decidedly better.
And in that he saw a direct interposition
of the Providence which had consistently befriended
him through his many wanderings.
He had prided himself on always making the
best of mankind as he found them, and here
was an opportunity of rising to the occasion —
of coming out strong, like Mr Tapley under
adverse circumstances. He would make the
best of the circumstances, unpromising as
they were, and show himself more than civil
to the uncongenial companions of his solitude.
An almost miraculous lull in his pains confirmed
him in his manly resolutions. And
when the tinkling of a cracked bell announced

the serving of an early dinner, he almost felt
equal to the occasion. In fact, having merely
broken his fast upon tea and toast, and being
a man of active habits, and by no means,
generally speaking, a gouty subject, the cravings
of nature began to assert themselves.

He was pleased to find the cabin comparatively
well ventilated. The active Mr Willis
had persuaded the steward to open one or two
of the bell's-eyes and admit a current of air.
Four gentlemen had already taken their
places at a table seated for a dozen : there
was his American acquaintance opposite to
the minister ; while the skipper, who occupied
the place of honour at the top, was faced by a
sheep-farmer from " misty Skye," bound on a
pleasure-jaunt to the western metropolis of
Scotland.

There is no nobler sight for gods or men
than " a great man struggling with the storms
of fate." Cato-like, the Honourable Mr Winstanley
had screwed himself up to a pitch
of philosophy, where he was not to be lightly
shaken. He scarcely flinched, so far as could
be seen in the dusky twilight of the cabin,
when the American welcomed him with the

cordiality of an old acquaintance, whose
friendly offices had given a claim on his
goodwill.

"Wal, stranger," exclaimed that really
good fellow, with a warmth that meant a
hearty introduction to the company, — " wal,
stranger, here you are, all slicked up and
smoothed down. Guess, when you limped aft
with the broken balance of you, after I had
most crushed off that gouty foot of your, the
bristles were up along the back like a catamount.
That was human nature', and I apologise.
You remembered me of old Jeb Peabody
and Judge Mason's bull. You want to hear
about it, you say. Wal, Jeb was ferryman at
Salem Flats on the Chickabody river, and he
kept a liquor-bar, and a store for general
rations to the back of that. All-fired deaf he
was, ever since he had been hoisted by mistake,
when the boys forgot him, over a blasting'
charge in a quartz-mine down to Denver. He
could take a power of drink could Jeb, but he
was apt to get drowsy over it in a general
way. Wal, one night he was sitting nodding
behind his pipe in his shanty, when he hears
somebody a-tapping at the door. ' Come in,'

says Jeb, still sleepy-like. The party on the
wrong side of the shingles raps again. ' Come
in,' says Jeb again, ' or else, I guess, though
it's well on in the fall, you'll find it kinder
warm when you do come.' The stranger outside
seemed deaf like Jeb ; 'feared he was getting'
riled with being kept a-waiting', for soon Jeb
could hear him stamping' and cussin'. * Wal,'
remarks Jeb, with a sigh, ' if I must get up to
open, I must ; but I guess, my friend, I'll
make you see stars — some,' and he reaches out
his hand to his slip of hickory, — when all of
a sudden the shingles cave in, and Judge
Mason's bull is in Jeb Peabody's weskit. Jeb
was a candid man, and as he said afterwards
in mentioning the fact — ' the way I shouted
and slipped out o' the winder like a greased
streak o' lightning', afore the ritter was done
prancing' around, was a caution to led snakes.'
And that was you, stranger, as you hollered
and made tracks ; and as for me, like the
judge's bull, I guess I was too fur taken aback
to apologise."

No one seemed greatly to appreciate the
American's apologue or apology, which, considering
there was but an ounce or two of the

pure metal to some tons of quartz, was not
much to be wondered at. But Winstanley
felt more in charity towards him than before,
since he saw that the transatlantic gentleman
was well disposed to monopolise the talk, and
that for himself he might play the part of
listener. During dinner and afterwards, the
voluble American sought to beguile the time
with a fund of anecdote, of aphorism, and sage
and moral reflection. Nevertheless, he did not
have it all his own way by any means. The
minister and the sheep-farmer had many subjects
more or less in common — mammon, commissions,
markets, the clip of wool, the outre-guidance
of the crofters, and the oppression of
the landowners. As for the skipper, he seldom
opened his mouth, except to stow away the
very solid victuals, or swallow whisky-and-water.
On the whole, Winstanley, not foreseeing
what was to befall on the morrow,
deemed him the most agreeable member of
the party.

The supper, which came off at nine, was
more successful than the dinner. After devouring
everything indigestible, from cold
corned-beef to crabs and Welsh rabbit, the

society settled down to steady drinking. The
American, to do him justice, having taken a
cocktail or two " by way of digestive, stuck
thenceforward to aerated water. But he talked
nine to the dozen, as he chewed plugs of golden
Virginia indefatigably, in deference to the
scruples of his new English friend, who had
strongly protested against smoking. Not that
Mr Winstanley disliked a cigar, but he objected
to suffocation by rancid nicotine.

The minister, the sheep - farmer, and the
skipper met on common ground, or rather
on common spirits-antipater, over a bowl of
punch that was brewed by the reverend gentleman,
after the soundest traditions of the fathers
of the Church.

The stuff you brew at the preaching," observed
the hillman, with a solemn wink, " or
when you're seeking to come over the heritor
for an augmentation, or an ' eke ' to the manse."
And worthy Dr M'Tavish, knowing well what
his friend meant, fully met his expectations.
Winstanley, who sat sipping some weak
brandy-and-water, soon sought a refuge on the
deck. But a mist that was very much of a
drizzle was settling down thickly, and Willis

was almost immediately at his elbow, like a
warning conscience. For Willis was attached
to his master, and detested the duty of acting
as sick-nurse to an aggravating patient.

"Excuse me, sir, but this mist is the worst
thing in the world for you. We should say it
had set in for settled wet in the south. Believe
me, you had much better go below."

But I am half-suffocated already, Willis,
and those good gentlemen seem to have no
notion of going to bed."

Better be half smothered or half stunned,
sir, than suffer pain for weeks to come," answered
Willis, sententiously. " The one will
be soon over ; but who can tell the end of the
other ? "

So his master yielded to reason, and descended
again to the Inferno, where his worst
anticipations were fully realised. If the practice
of patience be the discipline of life, Winstanley
should have passed a profitable night.

When he crept on to the deck in the
morning, he felt a doubly injured man. In
his sense of intense feverishness it seemed
as if he were suffering vicariously for the
indulgences of his shipmates — as if he had

swallowed the contents of the punch-bowls,
while they had been simply looking on. But
he revived in the freshness of the morning air,
as he feasted his eyes on a magnificent Highland
panorama. The Cuchullin was lying at
anchor in the land-locked roadstead of Loch
Eon a. A thick undergrowth of dwarf oaks
and alders, interlacing their bows in great beds
of bracken, came literally down to the beach
of shingle ; half-a-dozen streams were descending
so many picturesque glens, breaking here
and there over tiny waterfalls ; while huge
hills, with slopes of the softest green, and
great shoulders draped in purple heather, were
backed up by the splintered and weather-worn
peaks that were partially veiled in the swirl of
a drifting cloudland. In the foreground, near
a little " change-house " (Anglice, public-house)
and a cluster of hovels, was a snug shooting-box,
with its garden washed by the sea-waves,
where the luxuriance of the shrubs and the
flower-beds glorified the warmth of the Gulf-stream.


"The boat will be going ashore, sir, after
breakfast, should you think well of that," said
the shock-headed steward very civilly ; and

Winstanley thanked him as civilly and declined,
although, to a man in his situation,
the proposal sounded seductively. He would
have liked nothing better than a temporary
escape from his floating purgatory ; but he was
reconciled to his fate in remaining on board,
when the sprightly American came up with
his greeting.

I 'calculate, Colonel, by the way you're
sniffing the mountain air, you feel as fresh
this morning as a four-year-old mustang. And
if you're good for a run ashore, I'll come along
and kinder take care o' you. No ? You won't?
Wal, then, if you like a hobble better, you're
welcome to try one. Them rocks up there
may be almighty grand, but I'd sooner
speculate on their tallness any day than climb
them."

The morning passed slowly enough while
the Cuchullin was leisurely landing cargo.
The captain smoked and sipped his whisky-and
- water, leaving the superintendence of
operations to his mate. Winstanley, after
sundry unsuccessful attempts to kill time,
gave himself over to reflections that were
exceedingly unpleasant. He was condemned

to two other days and nights of confinement
in his present society before being landed at
a Christian port in the Clyde. He made up
his mind to the inevitable, in the spirit of an
early martyr.

And the inevitable promised to be worse
than he imagined. As the day went on, in
the bay, sheltered on three sides, scarcely a
breath of air was stirring. But nevertheless
a growing ground-swell came rolling round
the bold headland to the westward. The sky
had clouded over; there was oppression in
the air ; the leaden - coloured rollers seemed
sullenly smoothed down by oil ; and the
mate made the remark that the glass was
tumbling.

There has been wild weather in the Atlantic
— there can be no doubt of that ; and
the question is, whether we will not have a
storm on the coast here."

As for the captain, casting all his cares upon
Providence, he smoked and drank on imperturbably.


The passengers had come on board : the
Cuchullin had got up her steam, and was shewing
her head round to the sea-channel, when

VOL. I. L

the mate sang out to slacken speed. A boat
was seen putting out from the shore, and a
signal-flag was being waved in front of the
public-house.

Now who may that be ? " muttered Win-stanley
to himself. " It never rains but it
pours, and here comes another ruffian to prove
the possible aggravation of the least tolerable
calamities."

For a man was seated in the stern-sheets as
the boatmen strained to the oars.

Winstanley prided himself on his quick
perceptions, and it struck him at once that
the new-comer was a gentleman. Then [the
strangers luggage was presumptive evidence
in that direction, since it consisted of a couple
of neat portmanteaus, a gun-case, and a handbag
in Russian leather. The handbag bore
the golden initial letters " J. V." ; and the
gun-case, as the shrewd reader may have supposed,
was superscribed at length as belonging
to John Enables, Esq.

Jack was not gouty — far from it. On the
contrary, he was in the highest health and
spirits ; and he swung himself up the side
ladder with the grace of a young Anxious.

His first words were a polite apology to the
captain for delaying him, which the captain
acknowledged by inarticulate muttering, and
a stare from his whisky sodden eyes.

As for Winstanley, he was from the first
attracted to the stranger. Here, according to
outward appearances, was a man with whom
he might possibly have common ideas and
sympathies. So the pair made friends over
the dinner - table, and, had it not been for
the interruptions of the irrepressible Yankee,
would practically have monopolised the conversation.
For the minister was overawed
by consciousness of ignorance of the subjects
the others discussed in a kind of easy
freemasonry ; and the sheep-farmer, like naturally
modest men, was always in extremes,
and either painfully shy or brilliantly audacious.


It was just as well for Mr Winstanley that
he had found a companion he fancied, for it
seemed likely that the voyage might be indefinitely
prolonged. The night had settled down
in a fog, denser and damper than that of the
previous one ; and ten hours after they started
the steamer was going half-speed over a heavy

ground-swell in impenetrable darkness. Slowing
the engines had been the result of a compromise,
when the skipper in a moment of
drunken depression had lent an ear to the
warnings of his inexperienced mate. But
when the youth, in increasing uneasiness,
urged lying off altogether till day should
dawn, his superior had lost temper and decided
to go boldly ahead.

It's but kittle steering here," the mate
had objected ; " and with all that corrugated
iron in the hold we can hardly trust altogether
to the compasses. If we were among
the rocks and reefs off the Point of Achnahul-
lichen now "

And what if we were, my man ? " returned
his commander, with drunken dignity. " Man
and boy, I've been afloat for thirty years, and
I ought to know every one of the reefs between
Cape Wrath and the Moil of Centre."

They w T ere bending over a chart spread on
the cabin-table, and the little company of
passengers was grouped around them.

There's one of the reefs, then, I calculate,"
ejaculated the American, dryly, and with infinite
promptitude.

For as the captain spoke there was a shock
and a long shivering, a rending of timber, and
a tremulous rasping that had run along the
ship's keel like electricity, communicating with
the passengers through their shaking limbs,
and shooting a thrill to each nerve and fibre ;
while simultaneously rose shrill cries and wild
shouts from the decks. Then came another
shock, like the despairing struggle of a stranded
whale, and a duller sound of the splintering of
timbers.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SHIPWRECK.

Winstanley forgot his gout as the captain
was suddenly sobered. There was a rush for
the deck in that first alarm, as of men who
preferred to perish in the open, rather than
to be drowned below decks like rats and
cockroaches. Once on the deck there was
little to be seen, but a great deal to be heard.
The lantern gave but a fitful light, throwing
faint reflections on the grey wreaths of watery
vapour. But out of the darkness, that was
to be felt rather than seen, came appalling
evidences of a general panic. The Highland
forecastle passengers, more accustomed to their
hills than to the sea, had lost their heads, and
were bellowing and " routing " like the cattle.
And the cattle, where they had not broken
from the fastenings, had been jumbled together

in prostrate heaps, and were plunging madly
in the efforts to regain their legs. The more
placidly minded sheep were bleating piteously;
the ship was groaning, though it could not
roll, in response to the surf that was dashing
against its sides ; and the funnel was belching
forth volumes of steam and flaming showers of
sparks, for something had gone wrong with
the fires or the machinery.

In the darkness and the turmoil, so far as
could be judged, there were only four men
who had kept their heads. These were the
young mate, the shock-headed steward, the
cool American, and Mr Jack Enables. As
for Mr Winstanley, he was in mortal alarm,
though he had too much self-respect to show
it ; and, rather to give himself time to calm
down than for any better reason, he addressed
a remark to Mr Enables, who happened to be
close by his side, and was busy stripping off
coat and boots.

It's all over with us, I suppose."

But Jack's courage was of the kind that is
highest in emergencies, and his spirits rose
buoyantly to the excitement of danger.

Not if I know it, sir. We may all get

away in the boats ; and if not, I mean to 
save myself by swimming. The steamer
is upon rocks, and one may find a footing
on them, till some passing vessel comes to take
us off."

Thus having spoken on the spur of the
moment, the selfishness of his speech struck
him. " I wish this crippled old gentleman
had not been here," — so, we may suppose, ran
the current of his thoughts. " But as he is
here, I am bound to see him through it, worse
luck." And then he added, " If you keep by
me, or rather, stay by the companion here, I
shall come back before I leave, and will gladly
give you a helping hand."

Hardly even when talking to Mr Moray,
had Jack ever invested words to better purpose.
And indeed in this case, Winstanley
had reason to be doubly grateful. Not only
did the calmness of the young stranger help
him to regain his self-possession, but it was a
promise of self-sacrifice which he felt assured
would be redeemed. So whether his feelings
were too much for him or not, he merely
squeezed the young gentleman's hand by way
of answer.

While we have been lingering over this
conversation apart between the only two
people in whom we are greatly interested, incidents
were being fast crowded into seconds.
Had it been daylight, one might have looked
on at a veritable panic. The Celts in the
steerage had sufficiently recovered from their
stupor to be seriously alarmed. They had
animal courage enough, but it was ill adapted
to unfamiliar circumstances. They made a
rush at the boats, and carried them by storm.
Their frenzied impetuosity knocked a hole in
the bottom of one, which happened to be
loaded with coils of wire fencing. As for the
other, by the aid of the seamen it was lowered
into the water tant bien que mat. But that
boat was to the windward side of the ship, and
the surf was strong, and the gear slightly fouled
at one end. Naturally the boat upset under a
cascade of human beings, most of them weighing
considerably over fourteen stone ; and then
it became a case of " save who can," for no one
had a thought to bestow upon his neighbours.
Two or three who fell struggling; in
the deeper water, were swept to sea or under
the ship's counter, and were seen no more.

The rest, to their surprise and pleasure, regained
their legs, and were either washed up
against the swamped boat and the swinging
tackle, or, clutching wildly at each other,
their feet struck on the rocks, up which they
scrambled through the shoaling water, till,
clinging to the slippery sea weed like limpets,
they had time for recollection and a long
breath. Then one or two, with more presence
of mind than the others, shouted out that
there was firm footing under the ship's bows ;
and when the good news had slowly circulated
on board, relief from the apprehension of immediate
clanger brought about a wonderful reaction.
Their safety need only be a question
of time, and the indolent side of the excitable
Highlanders turned upwards again.

And with a falling ground-swell and calm
weather they might have been well contented
to wait indefinitely. But as the first breaking
of the dawn began to streak the eastern sky,
there came an ominous sighing and whistling
through the shrouds and the funnel-stays,
which caused the mate and the shock-headed
steward to prick their ears and exchange
significant glances. The wind was getting

up, as the glass had prognosticated a gale ;
and when the waves rose with the wind, the
Cuchullin would probably go to pieces. Nor,
as the breaking of the day made objects
visible, was the sight of the reef on. which
they were hard and fast by any means reassuring.
Low and rugged, and covered with slimy
brown and green sea-weed, it looked very like
the slippery back of the fabulous kraken, and
nearly as likely to be submerged at any
moment. Assuredly it was sunk far out of
sight in spring-tides ; probably the seas washed
over it in such a gale as was coming on.

The captain, although comparatively sobered
by the catastrophe, was dazed, and disposed
to take gloomy views, as he well might
be, considering that under the most favourable
circumstances his certificate was sure to be
suspended by the Board of Trade. So he
declared that as the vessel might break up at
any moment, the passengers had better take
refuge on the reef, which might be trusted not
to go to pieces, though it was quite on the
cards that it might be swamped.

Had an unimaginative artist sought materials
for the illustration of ' Robinson Crusoe,'

assuredly he might have found them in the
scene on the reef, which was locally known as
the " Kitty wake's neb." The steerage passengers
began by saving their personal property,
and piled bags and blankets and wooden
kiss " about them. Then, for sheer want
of occupation, and by the offer of free rations
of " Palliser," they were persuaded by the
mate and the steward to unload the live cargo.
We can't say that humanity had much to do
with it. So half-wild cattle that had the
strength and suppleness of the famous Gillingham
herd, were persuaded to leap from the
deck into the water. The sheep followed their
leaders, when one or two had been caught up
and pitched over bodily. And then there was
a scene, such as might have been witnessed
when the ark brought up, after its seven
months' cruise, on Mount Ararat. The cattle
crowded together, as is their custom, with
stooping heads and staring coats, playfully
goring each other in the ribs with their tremendous
horns, till the melancholy ocean resounded
with their bellowing. The sheep, that
jostled up against the oxen, although confining
themselves to plaintive protests against their

bad luck, were scarcely in the sum total less
vociferous. We daresay the rats left the
stranded ship, though, had they foreseen the
fate that must befall them, they would have
stuck by her so long as she floated. But the
old cabin cat, which had slipped over the side
when his betters set him the example, was
perhaps more to be felt for than any person.
He lowered himself over the side, from a
natural instinct of self-preservation ; but really
he cared very little what became of him. He
was too miserable, as he picked his way among
pools of sea-water, and set down his feet gingerly
on rocks that were slimy with trailing
sea-weed. His principles and his instincts
denied him the resource of suicide — for we
believe that, among all the memorabilia of
remarkable cats, no one instance has been
recorded of an animal that drowned itself.
But he strolled recklessly under the very
noses of collies who, in ordinary circumstances,
would have made but a couple of mouthfuls of
him. As it was, in the presence of a common
danger, they saw him pass with an indifference
as appalling as his own, to any one who had
leisure to remark the phenomenon. And so

the desponding Thomas went on, till he ran
up against a gentleman seated in a chair,
when the domestic instincts asserted themselves,
the more decidedly for the delightful
surprise. He rubbed his sides against an upturned
pair of trousers ; he made the wearer
wince by smoothing his whiskers against a
muffled foot ; and then he gave a flying leap
out of the damp, arching his back and purring
pleasantly against a woollen waistcoat.

In fact it had been a pretty though a
pathetic sight to see Mr Enables piloting
Mr Winstanley to the highest point of the
reef, and there depositing him on one of the
two or three cane-bottomed chairs to be found
on board the Cuchullin. Willis, who was still
amenable to orders, though he had lost all
power of initiation, followed, carrying the
dressing-case that was placed under his master's
feet. And there sat the Honourable
Wilfred Winstanley, gathering the skirts of a
trailing ulster round his legs, more painfully
sensible than ever of his signal folly in flying
so hastily from his comfortable quarters at
Somerset. But if he had a feeling stronger
than that of self-reproach, it was of gratitude

to the cheery young fellow who had done
so much for him. Already Winstanley
had asked his name, and had been duly informed.
To say nothing of Jack's sanguine
spirit being contagious, it was difficult to
seem depressed when the youth was near.
He would have sat self-rebuked while Mr
Enables was quietly conversing, as if they
had come together in a club smoking-room in
Pall Mall. We will not undertake to say that
there was not some swagger about Mr Enables,
but are content merely to record how
he behaved.

I should prefer a cigarette, as I have gone
without breakfast. But 'needs must be,' —
you know the proverb, sir ; so, by your leave,
though I think I heard them say you objected
to smoking, I shall light a pipe. If I keep
well to leeward, perhaps you won't mind."

But after a few whiffs of the pipe, a fresh
idea seemed to strike him.

What a picturesque sight it is, and what
comical groups of figures these are in the
foreground ! Gray's odes come back to the
memory. Confusion, fright, ay, and famine
too, and ever so many more realistic conceptions

of the passions. And what a bit that is,
a la M. Gudin at the Luxembourg, for example,
where the waves are breaking against
the sides of the old ship, with the sea-weed
streaming on the curl of the surf, and boxes
and trunks bobbing about among the breakers."

And from another of the numerous pockets
in his shooting-jacket he produced something
between a memorandum-book and a sketchbook,
and, smiling, proceeded to draw. Winstanley
looked at him curiously. His hand
was steady and his eye was clear, and he
handled the pencil for all the world as if he
had been sitting on a camp-stool in some
sequestered glen, with an immediate prospect
of muffins and coffee. Jack marked the
glance, and answered it in about five minutes,
by carelessly passing his sketch-book to Winstanley.


Admirable, sir, admirable ! " was that
gentleman's verdict ; for in fact his young
companion, by some sharp and bold touches,
had given a very fair idea of water in motion ;
while the rendering of the more prominent
figures in the foreground was a clever blending
of the grotesque with the veracious. And

though he immediately dismissed the matter
from his mind, the memory of it afterwards
did Jack good service.

Indeed more serious considerations were
soon to preoccupy him. A business of the
kind must be slow at best, whether to those
who figure in it or to those who read about it ;
so we spare our readers many of the details.
But with the rising tide, driven over the reef
by the winds, the water at every seventh
wave or so actually washed over Winstanley's
boot and slipper ; and although it became
pretty plain that no one need be actually
drowned, it seemed probable that his constitution
might be shattered for life. He was so
lost in a labyrinth of gloomy thoughts, that
he was indifferent even to the presence of the
irrepressible American, who opined that he
would rather run the chances of being sky-pocketed
from high-pressure " engines " among
the snags of the Mississippi, than be cast
adrift on an empty stomach in that herring-pool,
when a man should be turning his attention
to mutton-chops and ham-and-eggs.

Nothing could be more welcome, then, than
the sight of the Clansman, steaming southward

VOL. I. M

on the way to Oban. She answered the
signals of distress, and bore down to the
assistance of the wreck. The embarkation was
a matter of time, and of some little inconvenience
as well ; but the reef acted as a kind
of breakwater against the freshening gale, and
the castaways were hospitably welcomed into
snug quarters, where they had an opportunity
of changing their damp garments.

I seem to have known you from your boyhood,"
said Winstanley very warmly to his
young acquaintance. " You have stood by mein
a way I shall never forget ; and as you were
ready to do me one inestimable service in the
way of risking your life, I mean to ask you todo
me another. It's the way of the world,
you know, so you need not be surprised."

"Very willingly," answered Jack, with graceful
readiness — not the less readily, no doubt,
that he felt instinctively that the favour to be
asked was to pave the way to some return for
his generous devotion.

Well, I fancy I may take it for granted
that your time is at your disposal, otherwise
you would hardly have shipped for a cruise in
that miserable old tub. I mean to land at

Oban, where I fear I may have to lay up and
take medical advice. If you could bestow a
day or two on a fretful invalid, I should feel,
if possible, more grateful than I do at present."
And he threw as much significance into his
words as was compatible with consideration fora
gentleman's feelings.

And as we know something of Mr Enables's
views and nature — and as he made it a golden
rule never to miss a chance — we need hardly
add that he jumped at the invitation with a
cordiality which greatly flattered his senior.

CHAPTER X.

A HIGHLAND TRAGEDY.

A man must be a bore, or a social wet blanket,
if he be not missed from the society of a Highland
hall. Enables was missed by his uncle ;
he was missed by his cousin Grace ; he was
missed and mourned by Donald Ross and the
gillies. And, no doubt, he might have been
more missed than he was. by Leslie, had it
not been for certain significant intimations,
dropped in the course of the conversation
which Glenconan had with his elder nephew
according to arrangement. It is true that Mr
Moray said very little, being almost inclined
to repent his frankness with Jack Enables ;
and as he had already nearly burned his
fingers, he was apprehensive of further indiscretions.
Yet he did give the young laird of
Roodholm to understand that Grace might

possibly take it into her head to marry, and
that for himself he had every confidence that
his daughter would choose wisely. He hinted,
moreover, that he had said much the same
thing to Enables, which was quite enough to
send Leslie to a scrutiny of his own feelings.
And now that the scrutiny was forced upon
the young man, he was surprised at the dulness
of his own perceptions. But once entered
on so fascinating a course of study, he made
astonishing progress; and self-communing,
illustrated by more assiduous perusals of his
cousin's pretty face, taught him a thousand
things he had scarcely suspected. Strong and
sluggish natures like his sometimes, nevertheless,
answer promptly to the spur ; and when
a spark is set to a slumbering passion, it burns
like the subterraneous volcanic fires in Java
or Japan, where the peaceful landscapes smile
over the fragile crust that may explode at
any moment in a violent conflagration.

As for Grace, she had rather felt towards
Leslie as her father felt. He was a man she
would have turned to in any trouble. She
believed in his honour as she did in his Christianity.
She was sometimes almost startled

by the eloquent expression he gave to those
deeper emotions that were silently at work
within her. She felt that the active sympathy
of one so stanch and so earnest might be
everything in certain circumstances. Nevertheless,
like her father, she rather admired
than loved him, cousins as they were, and
thrown continually into the most familiar
intercourse. But hitherto she had seen life
almost entirely on its sunny side, and so she
found herself more at home in the society of
the more voluble Mr Enables.

And hitherto, and so far, the stars in their
courses had been unquestionably fighting for
Jack. But now, as it chanced, Mr Leslie was
to have his innings at a moment when it
seemed to come to him as an interposition of
Providence.

Moray appeared one morning at the 
with care upon his brow.

I have got a batch of bothersome business
letters to answer, and I think that nowadays I
hate business as much as I once used to enjoy
it. And this is such a beautiful day, that it
seems all the more pity to waste it. Needs
must, however, when — you know the rest —

and there is no help for it. Suppose you
and Grace arrange to do something, Leslie.
I shall be all the more resigned if I know
you are enjoying yourselves."

Leslie brightened up. Good-hearted as he
was, and fond of his uncle, he scarcely sympathised
with him in his present trial. And
although generally truthfulness itself, he was
guilty of a compliment de circonstance.

I am sure we are very sorry, sir ; but you
know the motto of the Russell, ' What must
be, must be.' Perhaps if you can knock off
your work, you may join us later in the day."
Then turning to his cousin, " What do you
say, Grace ? Shall we take the waggonette
and the chestnuts, and drive over to Tomna-
zurich ? "

Now the lively Grace, with all her regard
for him, rather shrank from a day's tete-astute
with her somewhat solemn cousin. If she
had told the truth, she would have confessed
that he almost frightened her ; and she seldom,
unless when his animated conversation made
her forget herself, felt altogether at ease in his
company. But on this occasion, as her father
had said of his correspondence, there seemed

to be no help for it, so she resigned herself
with alacrity and a charming grace.

In fact, Tomnahurich had a mystical attraction
for her — all the more so, that on the only
occasion when she had visited it, she had for
once been out of tune with her favourite companion.
Jack Enables had been at her elbow
through a brilliant afternoon, and his lively
rattle had jarred upon her sensibilities, as the
blaze of the sunshine had seemed unsuitable
to the scenery.

The waggonette with the chestnut cobs came
round, and Grace stepped up on the box-seat
by the side of her cousin. The taciturnity of
the driver surpassed her apprehensions — one
may easily have too much of peace and calm.
Leslie seemed embarrassed and lost in thought,
although he handled the reins carefully over
the somewhat breakneck roads. He would
talk with almost feverish fluency for a minute
or two, and then relapse into long silence. Had
Grace been more self-conscious, she might have
feared he was on the brink of a proposal,
although assuredly nothing was further from
his thoughts ; and he was one of the last men
to throw away a game by precipitation. She

was immensely relieved when the carriage
pulled up, and the groom was left in charge
to await their return, the horses being picketed
on a patch of turf. Now she was no longer
hand - locked to a spasmodically galvanised
corpse, and could break away to gather wildflowers
or on any other excuse. Her pet terrier
ran yelping on ahead. Leslie loaded himself
with the luncheon-basket, with a rug, and his
cousin's sketch-book, and strode along by her
side. The scenery was picturesque enough
and wild enough. What had once been a
tolerable driving-track ended where the waggonette
had drawn up, and was only continued
by a rough footpath, winding up a steep green
hill. There were solemn associations with it
too, inconsistent with picnics and luncheon
hampers ; for many a century before Tomna-
zurich had been consecrated by the Catholic
Church, and it was still sacred to the feelings
and the superstitions of the neighbourhood.

If we are not abroad in our Celtic philology,
Tomnahurich may be translated " the hill of
the fairies " ; at all events, that is the name
by which the Celts call it in the Saxon. It is
a little churchyard on a bold knoll or bluff, in

the midst of which might be traced the foundations
of a Romish chapel. Many generations
had died and gone to dust since the sacred
edifice was abandoned for the distant kirk of
the Reformed religion. The surrounding glens
had been depopulated by emigration, and descendants
of the dead folks might be flourishing
beyond the Atlantic, owning forest farms,
or running lumbering concerns in Canada,
speculating in shares in Wall Street, or ingrain
and pork in Chicago. But still the
gillies and shepherds of the neighbourhood
would bring their dead to repose on the mound
of Tomnahurich.

Can you not fancy," observed Leslie, as
they climbed the hill — and it must be confessed
that he might have chosen a more inspiriting
subject, — " can you not fancy the melancholy
little processions that have followed the path
we are treading ? It seems to me that those
who live in loneliness like this must miss the
departed who were dear to them more than we,
who are thrown into the whirl of life and may
forget now and again, if we cannot altogether
console ourselves. We bury our dead out of
our sight, and so far we are done with them ;

but in these Highland solitudes, after the
funeral as before it, do what they will, the
dead must always be with them. Look at
the peasants of the Breton coast, with their
sombre fancies, which nevertheless are sad
realities to the survivors."

Grace, although sufficiently impressionable,
was taken aback, for she happened to be thinking
of the cold chicken in the basket. But
tant bien que mal, she caught the ball on the
rebound, and dropped sympathetically into her
companion's gloomy train of thought.

"And can you conceive anything more sadly
depressing than a child's funeral here in the
winter? There is no putting it off, because
the few mourners have gathered together from
great distances, perhaps hazarded their lives
in the blinding snowstorm and the snowdrifts.
And the mother, broken down by watching
and grief, is toiling up the hill behind the
little coffin ; and even the father's strength
has been overtasked in digging through the
frozen ground; and the light of the cottage
has been laid to rest in a spot that is the very
abomination of bleak desolation."

With such cheerful talk they beguiled the

way, till, having reached the summit of the
grassy steep, the lonely churchyard lay full in
front of them. Whatever it might be in the
depth of winter, the spot seemed enchanting
now. It was on the grassy crest of a rocky
headland, surrounded on three sides by a
brawling stream. A clump or two of venerable
yews had been dwarfed and warped by exposure
to the weather ; and beneath and around
them, and within the dilapidated wall, were
the mounds, not a few of which were almost
level with the greensward, with a sinking of
grey and moss-grown headstones. The lustre
of the noonday sun was gilding the scene he
could hardly brighten; but by way of compensation,
the mountains to the westward were
bathed in all the glories of his golden light.
Both Leslie and his cousin involuntarily paused,
simultaneously struck by the pathos and the
splendour of the spectacle. A still more touching
surprise was awaiting them. As Leslie
was about to move on, Grace laid a finger on
his arm. But it hardly needed her whispered
Hush ! " to make him stoop forward and
listen with all his ears. There was a murmur
of childish voices, which would have sounded

strangely spirit-like had it been midnight instead
of brilliant noon.

Grace stole softly forward, her cousin following.
Another moment, and the chicken
and her hunger were altogether forgotten.

What they saw was such a scene of unaffected
grief as might have inspired the pen
of a Hogg or the brush of a Wilkie. There
was a newly cast mound beneath the boughs
of a yew, and near the brink of the precipice.
And by it a comely young woman was kneeling,
her chin in her hands, her elbows on
the grass, and her swimming grey eyes gazing
wildly into vacancy. Though their feelings
were stirred in sympathy with her grief, the
onlookers nevertheless were struck by the
details of the picture. Setting the refining
influences of a profound sorrow aside, the
mourner was graceful beyond the generality
of women of her station. If her complexion
was freckled and her cheek-bones were somewhat
high, there was beauty with great sweetness
of expression in her features. The dress
was of simple black, neatly fitted to the strong
yet well-shaped figure ; and in the rich tresses
of her hair, as they hung knitted over her

neck, the auburn and the red changed to gold
in the sunbeams. That the mother had been
forgotten in the sense of her widowhood, was
shown by the boy who was clinging to her
skirts, and scared at his mother's unwonted forgetfulness
of him. And a yet younger child,
a bright little girl, was laughing and crowing,
as she plucked at the gowans.

Leslie drew back instinctively, though the
mourning widow was both blind and deaf.
And Grace had accompanied him in a sympathetic
movement, though in another moment
she had retraced her steps. She could
not leave the mourner without trying to comfort
her, though feeling in her heart that consolations
must be cast away. Indeed the poor
woman scarcely acknowledged the light hand
laid upon her shoulder. She cared as little for
what was passing near her as for her children ;
and the touch and the presence of the stranger
were neither profanation nor intrusion : so that
Grace, with all her earnest desire to bring help,
stood silent and abashed before that speechless
sorrow. She said nothing : she stooped
and kissed the children, and then she withdrew
as quietly as her cousin had withdrawn.

But if her feelings had been moved to their
depths, she was full of feminine curiosity, as
she vowed to herself that those feelings should
find practical relief. Strange that she should
have lived for weeks in those mountain solitudes,
and know nothing of some cottage
tragedy that must have been enacted almost
under her eyes. That a tragedy there was,
there could be no doubt in the world : the woman's
face was eloquent with a story of sorrow
which she must find an interpreter to explain.

The interpreter was there, of course, all ready
to her hand. She spoke very little to Leslie,
who did not say much himself; and for once
his cousin understood and admired his reticence.
But she flew at Donald Koss, as he
said afterwards, though with all due respect,
"just as if one of the terriers had been flying
at the throat of a badger."

Donald, as a rule, was ready enough to talk,
especially to the young mistress he adored.
But on this occasion he was reserved and embarrassed,
which naturally whetted her keen
curiosity. And for once Miss Grace spoke
peremptorily, like her father, and went very
roundly to the wished-for point.

"You understand me, Donald," she exclaimed,
stamping her foot on the heather, and turning
her back ostentatiously on the contents of
the luncheon-basket — "you understand me, and
you know what I mean to say; and so you
will please to tell me everything about her."

Donald raised his stalker's hat, and scratched
his grey locks in profound perplexity. He
looked for help towards Mr Leslie, but Mr
Leslie refused to understand him, being almost
as curious on the subject as Miss Grace. Then
he burst out in dire perplexity —

Deil be in me, if there is anything I would
refuse to tell you, Miss Grace, but it was Glenconan
himsel' — and "

Oh, if you mean that my father has forbidden
you," began the young lady, with a
calculated sternness which nearly drove the
unfortunate retainer beside himself.

It's not precisely that, neither, Miss Grace :
if it were, you might have tied me to a hart's
horns before I would have told. But you
know yourself that the laird may mean much
when he says little ; and though you may be
sure that his hand is always as open as his heart,
and that the widow you were speaking of has

wanted for nothing, it's my belief he would
wish to keep anything from you that would
be troubling you."

"Well, I see how it is," responded the
young lady, softening down her tones into
witching seductiveness, and breaking into a
smile which went straight to Donald's heart.
"My father meant for the best, but chance
has been too much for him. I mean to get to
the bottom of this melancholy story, and may
you not just as well tell it as he ? He knows
even better than you that I never care to be
kept waiting."

Donald looked inquiringly at Leslie. Like
every one else, he had an instinctive confidence
in the honour and good sense of the
Laird of Eoodholm. Leslie simply nodded.
He knew that Grace would have her will, and
she might as well have it sooner than later.
If he were called upon to interfere, he could
always defend her with her father. And
Donald, who was full of the tale he had to
tell, and who rather prided himself on his
gifts as a raconteur, broke away in full cry at
the sign, like a hound after a wounded deer.

"It's three - and - thirty years past next

VOL. I. N

Martinmas since I came first into the Strath,
and I've never known a finer lad in it than
Angus M'Intyre. No day was too long for
him, and no hill too stiff ; and I have known
him bring the deer home upon his shoulders,
when the pony would have broken down in
the bogs. It was seven years ago, or it maybe
six, that he was married upon John Rutherford's
daughter, and brought her here. Her
father was a shepherd from the South country,
and they say that he was sore against the
match — for Rutherford was as obstinate as
one of his own tops, and would always beset
against the Highlander ; but between
Angus and the lassie, they had their way.
That Rutherford would miss her, you may
believe ; and as for Angus, many a time he
has said to me that his heart was sore and
sorry for the old man. And they had the two
bonnie children you have seen with her up at
the burying-place there. I have never married
myself, Miss Grace, and I never mean to,
begging your pardon ; yet I will not say but
what I have sometimes wished I was Angus.

I may have wished it one Saturday at
even, just two months agone, if I had little

thought at the time that I would never forget
that night. We had been giving a look round
the braes at the back of Benavourd, for we
knew that Glenconan would be down in a
week or two. And Angus, he would be insisting
that I was to stop with him for supper,
and he would be stirring the toddy, and the
glass was going round, but yet the bit wife
was the cheeriest thing in the cottage. And
he had told me that there was a litter of foxes
in the cairn on Funachan : 'deed, and the
shepherd had been complaining that very day,
and he said he would need to be getting out
some of the terriers and seeing after them.
And so I said to him, after the last glass,
that we would be seeing about them ; and if
it was a Providence, as the minister might say,
it was a Providence of the wrong kind, but
that very night I found the fox-hunter from
Locally at the kennels.

He's an old man is Peter — as keen after
the foxes as his dogs, but as stiff as Jock
Rutherford ; and he would by no means stay
with us over the morrow, that was the Sabbath.
He was bid to be on the Monday with
the tacksman in Cousin ; but if we thought

well of it, he would take the cairn on Funachan
on his road. So at last I said, and always will
I rue it, that he was a wilful man, and must
have his way.

Had it not been for Peter again, I would
have turned back upon the Sunday when we
met the minister. He said but little, but he
looked the more, and many's the time that
I have minded on it since. And there was
a beast of a raven that would follow us, croaking,
all the way up Glenclocharty ; and Mary
that's the woman ye saw, Miss Grace — she
would have keepit back Angus from going
with us, for both of them were dressed and
bound for the kirk. And Angus himself, for
once, was not that willing, but he said that if
we were set upon it, he was to show us the
place ; so he whistled upon Smourach, his bit
terrier, and gave a kiss and a smile to the
wife.

The bitch fox had gone to her earth but
little before us, and the dogs had opened on
the scent or ever we got near to the cairn.
And Peter likes ill that any should interfere
with his pack, so Angus had picked up Amours
and was holding her in his arms. Well,

the big fox-hounds they stood whining and
scraping outside ; and terrier after terrier
would be sent in among the rocks, and when
we laid our ears to the ground we could
hear the fighting and the scratching. But the
vixen, she had the best of them ; and dog
after dog came back, blown and bleeding, and
the day was getting on, and Peter growing
desperate. It was then that Smourach made
a spang out of Angus's arms, though I well
believe he could have held her had it pleased
him ; but he was proud of the bit thing, and
would always say that when once she put in
her teeth, the worse she was worried the
deeper they went.

But you are wearying, and I am coming
to an end, and a doleful end it was for Angus.
The battle had begun worse than before, and
we all of us were lying and listening, when
some of the stones slipped from beneath us.
Angus was like a man distracted, for the way
was closed, and unless we could open it out
again, he had looked his last upon poor
Smourach. So he said it behoved him to
go in, and when I looked in his eyes I saw
there was no holding him back. So he strips

his coat and in he crawls, and we could hear
to him scraping aw T ay among the stones, when
the biggest of the blocks above him settled
down. He must have moved some of the
small stones inside that upheld it. And then
there came a groan through the cracks that
sent a grue to our hearts, and we knew that
the great rock was upon him. We were down
upon our knees and tearing aw r ay, till our
hands were bloody and our nails were rent ;
and we got down till we saw the hair on the
head of him, and the big bells of the sweat
that were standing on his forehead.

' Can you shift it, Donald ? ' he could just
groan out ; and I would have given ten years
of my life to say c ay ' to him. But unless wee
had brought half-a-dozen men with bars of
iron, we could never have lifted it one inch.
But when we could say nothing, and he maybe
heard Peter sob — for the fell old hunter was
crying like a woman — all he breathed out was,
Then the Lord be good to me ! ' and these
were the last words that he ever spoke."

Donald, absorbed in his story, had been
stimulated by Grace's attention. But when
he looked at her on finishing, her pale face

frightened him. It was not for nothing that
Moray, knowing her impressionable temperament,
had been afraid of shocking her by so
tragic a tale. But with her sensitive nerves
she had her father's courage ; and it was to the
fate of the unfortunate widow that she turned
her practical mind. She forced Donald to tell
how the news had been "broken" by strong
men who could not control their emotion, and
startled the bereaved widow by the very intensity
of their sympathy ; and though she
could not go to the cottage in her present agitation,
thenceforth her thoughts were full of
its occupant.

Moray was both shocked and angry when
he met the excursionists on their return. His
daughter's nerves had been sadly shaken by
listening to such a narrative so near its scene.
On consideration, it was not difficult to obtain
his forgiveness for Donald, who indeed, in the
circumstances, could hardly have helped speaking.
But time after time he cursed his own
folly in letting his daughter go near the churchyard
and the cottage. So far as material help
to the widow went, he had nothing with which
to reproach himself. His liberality had fed

and clothed the little family, and was ready to
assure its future into the bargain. But what
haunted Grace, with that slow death-agony
under the boulder, was the look in the widow's
face. There was a touch of the insanity that
brings no oblivion — that distorts the horrors
which memory will revive. Judging by the
effects on herself, a comparatively unconcerned
listener, she could guess how the tragedy must
have told on the woman it so deeply affected.
And with her actively sympathetic nature, inaction
was out of the question. Even her
father, now that the mischief had been done,
felt that she must be left free to follow
her warm impulses. Yet she shrank herself
from approaching so sacred a grief, distrusting
her power of bringing either consolation or
alleviation.

It was then that Leslie had his opportunity
though, to do him justice, he never thought
of it as an opportunity at the time ; nor did
he know till long afterwards how well he had
improved it. In which he differed altogether
from Mr Enables, who, although perhaps to
the full as warm-hearted as the other, could
never for the life of him help thinking how he

could turn everything to some personal account.
There is nothing which a sensible girl
who is vaguely contemplating marriage craves
so much in a lifelong companion as intuitive
sympathy and intelligent affection. They are
the supports on which she hopes to lean — the
shelter that may shield her from the storms of
life. And now Leslie's sympathy, although it
was silent, was as clear to her as the intelligence,
the perspicuity of which almost alarmed
her. He said very little, as was his custom,
but she felt that his loving penetration was
searching out her innermost thoughts. And
she knew, besides, and she had good reason
to know, that he was employing himself very
energetically in her service.

When she came down to breakfast, after a
restless night, she had missed her cousin, and
asked about him.

"He called for a glass of rum-and-milk in
his room, and was away by seven o'clock, they
tell me," said her father. " He did not vouchsafe
any message for us, but I fancy we both
guess his business."

So in the early forenoon Grace was sauntering
on the path that led over the hills towards

Mrs M'Intyre's shieling. Nor was it long
before she saw Leslie approaching. He was
coming on leisurely, as if lost in thought, but
at sight of her he quickened his pace.

Well, Ralph ! " was all the greeting she
gave him, and yet there was that in her look
and in her tone which amply rewarded him
for his early expedition.

"Yes," he said, answering her unspoken
inquiries — " yes, I have been to see her, and I
think I see, too, how we can help her."

Grace was of course all anxiety ; but she
repressed the questions that came crowding to
her lips, leaving her silent cousin to do the
talking. And he spoke with so much good
sense and with such sincere feeling, that she
had never listened to him with greater
pleasure.

"You of all girls will understand me, Grace,
when I tell you that I never was so nervous
in my life as when I walked up to the door of
that poor woman's cottage. There is something
so sacred in a calamity like his, that it
seems sacrilege for a man and a stranger to
approach it. And when sorrow has almost
turned the brain, in our ignorance and our

reverence we are almost hopeless to cope with
it. In fact, had it not been for one thing, I
should have gone on hesitating " — he did not
add, " as you have been doing."

But Grace finished the sentence for him in
her mind, and, full of her gratitude, was ready
reward him.

And I know what that one thing was, and
that you wished to spare my weakness an
effort. Nor shall I forget it, Kalph — of that
you may be sure ; and now tell me everything."


Really, I don't know that there is much
to tell, except that I have prepared the way
for you, and left her hoping for your visit.
Though that is something, for I am sure you
will do her good, and indeed may probably
prove her salvation. The fact is that the
poor woman has been neglected, though not
intentionally ; and mismanaged — with the best
intentions. Your father, as of course he would,
gave his people carte blanche, and in the way
of meal, and milk, and mutton, she has everything
heart can desire. I believe that the
neighbours, from Donald Koss downwards,
would each one of them cut off a hand to

spare her a finger-ache. But they scarcely
understand her case, — as how should they ?
And living in the shadows of that brooding
solitude — you remember our talk of yesterday,
just before we saw her ? — her dead is always
with her ; the horrors of that death-scene are
always present with her ; and I believe, from
what she let slip, that the husband she loved
haunts her in her visions of the night like the
vampires of the Hungarian legends. Unhappily,
perhaps, she seems to be a remarkable
woman for her station : what you might have
been," he added, with a serious smile, " had
you been born a shepherd's daughter and
similarly bereaved."

But the minister ? " said Grace. " He is a
good man — is he not? Has he not gone to
visit her?"

The minister is an excellent man, and his
visits have been only too frequent. From
what I have gathered, and it was a good deal,
his views are as strong and as sincere as they
are narrow. He pities her ; he feels for her,
according to his lights ; but he is persuaded
that the terrible death was a judgment. And
even in consoling the widow, in his heart and

conscience he feels that he must vindicate the
ways of God to man, and says as much. So
Mrs M'Intyre, believing in her pastor's spiritual
infallibility, is tormented by the notion
of her husband's doom. If he was made a
flagrant example of the sin of Sabbath-breaking
— if he was doomed here, he may be
condemned hereafter."

"How terrible!"

"Is it not ? But that is just where you
may do unspeakable good, since you can talk
religion as well as common-sense, and speak
to her of mercy instead of judgment. But it
is not for me to tell you, Grace, how you may
best comfort the widow. I should as soon
think of giving a hint to one of the angels : if
you cannot bring consolation to the cottage,
then I throw up my hands. And even the
minister is a candid man, and may listen to
reason and the views of Glenconan's daughter.
You go to work with him and with Mrs
M'Intyre, and come to me and report progress.
In the meantime, I wash my hands of the
whole matter — unless, indeed, you should
want money."

That you assuredly shall not do, or I take

no further step ; and I cannot use a stronger
threat, for I believe that we shall succeed
in our errand if we only go hand in hand.
But you must still be my guide, and, you maybe
sure, I shall be very docile. Only tell me
what I am to do, and you shall have no cause
to complain."

Leslie never in his life felt half so happy, and
he would have very much liked to have told
her so. A community of interests had been
established on the highest and holiest grounds ;
and now he had proved and realised the virtues
and the qualities with which he had
always desired to credit his cousin. She was
worth the loving, and she was worth the living
and the working for, so from thenceforth
he made up his mind to do both the one and
the other ; and when Leslie's mind was made
up on a subject so all-important, it was by no
means easy to move it. That happy moment
seriously altered the odds against hopes and
ambitions on the part of Mr Enables. And
it is more than probable that Grace made a
guess at what was passing in his mind ; for
her colour rose, to her confusion, as her cousin's
eyes were riveted on her.

But the confusion passed away, and the
community of interest remained. The cousins
went like angel-visitors to the cottage, sometimes
together, more often separately. They
found that the widow could be won to confidences
in a tete-astute, though she would shrink
into herself when the two came together. But
their sympathy began to teach her acquiescence,
which might gradually grow to contented
resignation. And although it was not often
she spoke the thanks she looked, she could
occasionally be eloquent in her gratitude to
either when the other was away. She had
warm feelings, or she could never have suffered
so intensely; and she had been educated above
her present station. But let her enlarge on
the praises of the absent as she might, she
could never tire the patience of either of the
listeners. Grace would hear how her manly
cousin — who had saved the life of another at
the risk of his own, to the admiration of the
daring hillel — could be tender and impassioned
as any woman. She heard involuntary
comparisons drawn, much to his advantage,
between him and the very worthy minister,
in whom, nevertheless, as we have said, Mrs

M'Intyre profoundly believed. She admired
the tact, though it seemed profanity to call it
tact, which he had shown in these delicate
circumstances ; and reproaching herself for her
blindness hitherto, she rather ran into the opposite
extreme. In short, she admired him
and loved him more and more, and clay by
day — as a cousin; so it must be confessed that
Mr Leslie's chances were looking up.

While as for him, in the true spirit of poetry,
he took to idealising the maiden he had
longed to adore. Before he thought seriously
of loving her, he had been hampered by his
distrustful good-sense. He had admired the
natural grace of her movements; he had meditated
sonnets to her beauties when the fancy
seized him ; he had liked the liveliness that
sparkled in her badinage with Enables. But
whether it were from a dash of jealousy or
doubts as to her depth, he had feared that she
and Enables would be fitly matched. For
Leslie, with no touch of personal vanity, cherished
a good deal of quiet intellectual pride.
But with him, as with her, there had come a
reaction, and now he was the more ready to
worship that he had rashly criticised. Now

he figured her to himself as the ministering
angel, bringing messages from heaven to desolate
hearth ; and then, in a natural sequence
of ideas, he thought what her presence would
be in her husband's home. Altogether, if Mr
Enables had really left his heart in the Highlands,
when he went southward full of self-confidence,
to study the advancement of his
fortunes, he might have had good grounds
for uneasiness, had he known all that was
going on.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XL

THE HON. WILFRED Instance.

But, come what might of his affair with his
cousin, Jack Enables had been doing well for
himself. In Winstanley he seemed to have
met what the spiritualists would have called
his affinity, allowances being made for the
difference in their ages. He had succeeded as
the other hoped to succeed, by social gifts, by
tact, and by enterprise. To be sure, as Jack
learned by degrees, Winstanley had had certain
advantages in starting. He heard the
story bit by bit, and, as it were, incidentally ;
yet Winstanley was really frank, and willing
to be so, for he loved to find an admiring listener.
And Jack sat at his feet with unfeigned
and flattering interest, storing up the treasures
of wisdom which he hoped to turn to practical
account.

Mr Winstanley had been the second son of
the Viscount Wrecking ; and through his mother
he had inherited a handsome independent fortune.
Had he been more humbly born and
poor, he would probably have done what Jack
had dreamed of doing, and turned artist, launching
out as an adventurer in full Bohemia. He
was fond of art, and had fair talents that way,
which possibly he might have cultivated to
profitable purpose. He was fond of pleasure
too, and it might well have been a question
whether art or pleasure would have got the
upper hand, had he given himself over to
leading the life of a Tiger. As it was, the
family traditions kept him straight, and fair
play was given to his talents and his ambition.
For two or three generations the Instances
had been distinguished in public affairs, and
they had the habit of intermarrying with the
governing Whig families. Taking to politics
or diplomacy like ducks to the water, it was
only a question with the Hon. Wilfred as to
the direction in which he should steer.

He might have sat for a borough which was
in reality a close one, though the Winstanley
influence was decently ignored. Or he might

try his fortunes in diplomacy, with the absolute
certainty that he would be taken care of.
The young aristocrat hardly hesitated. He
had gauged himself and knew that he was
clever, but he was not very sure that he was
profound. He did know that he detested drudgery,
and he was doubtful whether he might
shine as a speaker. He would as soon have
committed suicide offhand, as condemned
himself to committees and the study of bluebooks
; and making a slow reputation as a
hard-working official, seemed a game that was
far from being worth the candle. On the other
hand, diplomacy attracted him. He liked the
idea of looking forward in the future to twisting
sultans and kaisers and kings round his
fingers. While in the meantime, with the
strong interest he could command, he might
serve his apprenticeship in pleasant places.

On the whole, he had had little reason to
complain ; and if he went through a good deal
of disillusioning, he had the grace to acknowledge
that the faults were his own. He was
quick, but not industrious ; he was adroit, but
scarcely reliable. He began at Florence as
attache at the Court of the Grand Duke in

the good old clays, and there he made his
reputation as a man who could shine in society,
and who was an artistic connoisseur.
He went in for society as matter of business,
and for the fine arts in the way both of business
and pleasure. He ran up bills, but he
could afford to pay them ; he entertained,
because he liked entertaining, while other
attaches ate at their master's tables, going out
to dinners, and giving none in exchange. So
he early made his mark as a brilliant young
man, who might do the State good service were
he promoted. And even then, his pleasures,
and what apparently were his extravagances,
proved profitable. He flirted freely with maids
and matrons, saying little of importance, and
picking up a good deal. He was the very man
to be set to match some feminine diplomatist,
who, being sent out to shear her dupes, never
dreamed of going home shorn. The ingenuous
youth had a way of looking into women's
eyes, which at once disarmed them and drew
them on. It could hardly be called deceit, it
came so naturally to him. Then his art purchases
were even more immediately lucrative
than his social talents. He had grand passions

for particular pictures. There was one Madonna
by Correggio, which he bought at what
appeared a fancy price, and fitted up in a
fancy case, carrying it with him wherever he
went. The passion being sated, he sold Our
Lady afterwards for cent per cent on the original
purchase-money. In fact, although he
might be taken in now and then, as must bethe
fate of the very shrewdest in experience,
he generally put out good money at usury,
and could realise his investments in the aggregate
at a handsome profit.

He married young and for love, which might
appear to be inconsistent with his practical
character ; but, as it chanced, the lady had a
considerable fortune, which was subsequently
increased by an unexpected inheritance. The
lady had likewise a will of her own, as she had
a right to have, and we daresay there may
have been domestic tussle before she was
permitted to indulge it. At any rate, the
pair ultimately signed terms of peace, and
agreed to go each their own way as they
liked, coming together on a footing of friendship
when they pleased. Winstanley had gone
through all the successive grades, from unpaid

attache to first secretary of legation ; and then
he became a promising Minister, although he
had never risen to the rank of ambassador.
That, as I said, was very much his own fault.
He was able, but only too versatile, for he
wanted ballast. He loved change of scene,
and was willing to be shifted anywhere, from
the Hague or Frankfort to Quito or Pekin.
And all that could certainly be predicated of
him at the Foreign Office was, that he would
scarcely be settled ere he would wish to change
again. And a change he invariably succeeded
in effecting, which may have gone far to account
for his complacent submission, though
he went revolving in secondary spheres in
place of rising to the primary.

So that even in the discharge of his strictly
official duties, the proverb of the rolling stone
could hardly be said to apply to him, for he
rolled out of one good berth into another, and
had always respectable pay and appointments.
But he was a man who had many irons in the
fire, and had a marvellous instinct for never
burning his fingers. As to that, we may let
him speak for himself, as it was a subject on
which he was especially fond of speaking when

he could make sure of his audience. Winstanley
detested the semblance of boasting,
but he loved sympathetic appreciation. Perhaps
it was the unfeigned and only half-conscious
flattery of Jack Enables in that
respect, which had drawn the elder adventurer
most strongly towards the younger one.

Jack had expressed his admiration and astonishment
at the number and variety of those
irons of Mr Winstanley, though he had merely
heard of a few of them in course of conversation.


Well, you see," said Winstanley, complacently,
" I have lived in many places in
my time, and have always made it a golden
rule to turn my opportunities to the best
advantage."

And such opportunities ! " sighing ejaculated
Jack.

Such opportunities, you may well say. No
man can do more in the speculative way than
one of her Majesty's diplomatic representatives
in foreign parts. The misfortune is, with men
sent to Peru or Patagonia, or those sort of
places, that very few of them have money.
They try to live on their incomes, or to save

upon them, and they fail ignominiously. Now
I had money, as it happened. Trade is forbidden
even to consuls now, very properly,
though the poor devils have often to starve
upon a pittance, in obedience to peremptory
though righteous rules. But a free Briton
may always invest his money in whatever
quarter of the globe he happens to find himself.
A diplomatist has always access to the
best information, and should be able to count
on his position for guaranteeing his being
honestly dealt with."

So, sir ? " again ejaculated Jack, hanging
on the lips of the speaker, in the confident
hope of successfully imitating him.

Winstanley was pleased, and went on ; perhaps
he had his reasons besides.

Look here, Enables ; I have taken a liking
to you, and I don't mind telling you something
of my financial story for your guidance.
I owe you a debt, and I hope to do more than
this to pay it ; meantime I am sure I may
count on your discretion, for you conceive it
is not to every one that I should give a catalogue
raisonne of my investments."

Jack merely bowed and smiled, — he was too

deeply interested to interrupt ; and Winstanley
proceeded : —

I don't pretend for a moment that the list
is exhaustive ; indeed I have been perpetually
selling out and buying again elsewhere, for
even a steady run of gains would pall intolerably.
I merely give you some illustrative
cases, and mention what I consider the 
in my career.

I flatter myself my first hit was an inspiration,
and the boldest of all. "When in the
Foreign Office as a mere boy, I had made
friends with Isaacs, the great Jew financier ;
or rather, Isaacs had condescended to take
notice of me. By way of extraordinary favour,
he had allotted me a few shares in the
Universal Bank. The shares had gone up like
balloons, and they came down again as if the
gas was escaping through rents, in the panic

of 1 don't precisely remember the year.

I was in mortal terror, for the liability was
unlimited ; and I was in blessed ignorance of
the bank's transactions and resources. I rushed
off to my friend Isaacs. I think I must have
taken his fancy, as you have taken mine. It
was after dusk, in his private sitting-room,

and before answering he went to see if the
door was shut, and if the shutters were safe.
Then he came back to me with an air of mystery,
and told me that the concern was absolutely
safe. ' Schwartzchild ' was the only
word he dropped besides, and I could see
that he would shut up like an oyster if I
cross - examined him. I thanked him, and
shook hands, and chewed the cud of meditation
through a sleepless night. If I sold, I
should lose seriously, and might possibly be
let in after all. But if the bank was safe,
it must be the time to buy, for the falling
shares were to be had for a song. It was
all a question of Isaacs' good faith, for he
was assuredly in the bank's innermost secrets,
and as to that I exercised my diplomatic perceptions.
I was persuaded that the man meant
kindly by me, so I gave commission to sundry
brokers to buy Universal shares. The bank
was smashed up long ago, but I sold all I had
bought afterwards, contenting myself with a
modest gain of £8000. Had I chosen to hold
on, I might have made half as much again ;
and had I stuck to the investment, I should
have been a ruined man.

Those were pleasant times in Paris, when
I was second secretary in the Faubourg St
Honore, during the golden days of the Empire.
As a member of our Legation, I knew nothing
and wished to know nothing of such things as
that luckless ' Mexican Question,' which came
on later, and was handed over to De Morn
for the payment of his debts. But I cultivated
M. Hassan and the MM. Would. I
used to dine with those magnificent gentlemen
pretty frequently, smoking cigarettes over
sweet champagne at dessert, and by putting
two and two together, I exercised my prescience,
and picked up sundry lots of house property
on the lines of the Prefect's projected
demolitions.

I had got rid of most of them before I was
sent on to Vienna, to profit by my Parisian
experiences in the Kaiserstadt. I had my
knife and fork at Schwartzchild's mansion in
the Leopoldplatz, and I had my little interest
in the house speculations, in the Danube Valley
Reclamation schemes and the Hungarian
Land-banks. Well, well, perhaps it was lucky
for me that the Viennese society and blank
days of bear-shooting in the Carpathians bored

me. At all events I was in Pekin, having
cleared out everything Austrian at handsome
profits before the krach came in the great
exhibition year. By the way, I remember
that relative of yours, Mr Moray, in China,
but we will talk about him another time. I
soon tired of China, and touched nothing there.
No doubt there was money to be made by outsiders
in silks and opium. But the fact was,
it was the kind of money-making which is
likely to leave pitch on the fingers. And as
I caught an ague besides, I went to sun myself
and get rid of the shivers in the dry uplands
of the Columbian Republic. There I
dipped into coffee-plantations, and dyed my
hands in indigo-growing, — always in the way
of legitimate investments, remember ; and I
should have done a good deal better than I
did, had it not been for the moral tone of the
country. I give you my word of honour, that
when you get mixed up with a syndicate there,
the rascals would leave even a British Minister
in the lurch ; and more than once I had to
come down handsomely, to save the credit of
those whom malevolent scandal might have
called my confederates. But I pray you to

observe, my young friend, that though I have
made many hits in my time, I never in my
life did one dishonourable action, and so I saw
my properties in Columbia seriously depreciated.
The more was the pity. Had others
only run as straight, I might have left the
Legation there with a handsome fortune. And
I don't know, after all, but what I should have
regretted it, for satisfactory speculation is the
salt of life.

But I am getting prosaic, and I fear I
begin to twaddle. Oh yes, it is no use your
protesting — I take your civility for what it is
worth. And at any rate, I should say little
about my squabbles with the Foreign Office.

As for successive Foreign Secretaries, I
always found them the most impracticable
of men." And here Mr Winstanley smiled.
They said — and you may imagine how absurd
the accusation was — that I was never to
be counted upon from month to month ; that
the health and digestion which seemed perfect
in London were always breaking down in
foreign climates ; that I was perpetually giving
myself leave of absence ; and that if they
sent a specially important despatch, I was

always crossing it en route. You conceive,
that to a gentleman of comfortable means,
there was no dealing with officials of that
stamp. So I intimated courteously that, leaving
my services at her Majesty's disposal, I
was quite content to be shelved in the meantime.
To do them justice, they took me
readily at my word, offering me the ribbon of
St Michael and St George, which I declined
respectfully with thanks."

Did you not find it a little dull, sir, that
change to a private life ? "

Dull, my good friend ! dull ! Why, I am
never dull. I have always been too full of
occupations. As for being bored sometimes,
I don't say : that is a different thing altogether,
and the common lot of well-to-do
humanity. At this moment I have no end of
promising schemes on hand, as you will learn
when we improve our acquaintance. But
apropos to being bored, having a conscience
and some consideration for you, I shall ring
for my candle, and wish you good night."

CHAPTER XII.

MR Enables's FIRST COUP.

When Mr Winstanley walked up-stairs, Mr
Enables strolled off to the smoking-room.
And as he sauntered along the passage, already
he was meditating much over his good
friend's autobiographical sketches, and the
useful lessons that had been read to him. He
thought quickly, and already had made up his
mind that much was depending on some
prompt course of action, and that he might
make a great opportunity or miss it. " The
old gentleman likes me ; that is very clear," —
so ran his reflections ; " and while his gratitude
is warm, and we are living almost en
tete-astute, he would very willingly do anything
to help me. Once in London again,
among his many distractions, to say the least
of it, it is quite upon the cards that gratitude

may cool into civility. But if I could only
show him that I lay his teaching to heart, if
I could make a coup on the spot and prove
that I might possibly help him, then he would
be likely to help me to some purpose, and I
might be partner for life in the money-making
firm of Winstanley & Enables. Thank
heaven, I have that £10,000 to start with !
But I am at Oban, and at the back of the
world, worse luck, where I have every sort of
facility for dreaming, but no chance of doing
anything to the purpose." So the sanguine
flashes of his ambition died down in
momentary despondency, as his fingers were
on the handle of the smoking-room door.

Now, as it chanced, the Dunolly Arms
Hotel was a rather peculiarly conducted establishment.
The season at Oban is brief at the
best, so that all the landlords are more or less
autocratic. When families of tourists are
scrambling for beds, in the fading sunsets of
the long summer evenings, they will stoop to
any servility to secure them. And necessarily
the landlords, who are arbiters of their fates,
abuse the advantages of their right of selection.
But Mr M'M'Alpine of the Dunolly Arms

vol. i. p

was a despot among despots. A benevolent
despot, it is true, with a kindly nature at
bottom ; but rough of manner and blunt in
speech. Like Winstanley, he was an enthusiastic
patron of the Fine Arts, and his public
rooms and passages were hung with paintings
and sketches, many of them of no inconsiderable
merit, executed by artists he had entertained
and befriended. He paid fair prices,
when he did not take paintings in exchange for
board and lodgings in the dead season ; he sold
these paintings again when he had the chance,
and generally got back his money. He could
afford to wait for it, as he could afford to lose
it. Mr M 'Alpine was a small wiry Celt, with
a snarl at the corners of the lips, contradicted
by a pair of kindly grey eyes, which seemed
to say that his bark was worse than his bite.
His domestic laws were like those of the
Modes and Persians — especially that which
forbade tobacco anywhere except in the regular
smoking-room. No doubt he knew very
well on which side his bread was buttered
and, being pecuniarily independent, could afford
to persist in a system which remunerated
him handsomely in the long-run. And if he

showed the wealthy Mr Winstanley a certain
consideration, it was more from sympathy
with him as a well-known connoisseur in the
Arts, than from the idea that he might possibly
become a purchaser of some of the
masterpieces on the walls. Winstanley's valet
had been blowing his master's trumpet : Jack
Enables was always ready to talk with anyone
who either amused or instructed him ; and
M 'Alpine was a well-informed man, with the
local knowledge at his finger-ends. Jack had
made great way in his good graces by showing
him the pocket-book with the clever scratching
of the shipwreck. Old M'M'Alpine chuckled
and criticised ; he laughed especially at a portrait
of Mr Winstanley in his ulster, sitting
with turned-up trousers in the chair, amid the
sea-wrack, the salt water, and the limpets, —
a clever study, which, by the way, the sketcher
had never submitted to its subject : so that
had not Jack been seemingly a gentleman of
good estate, M'M'Alpine would assuredly have
given him a commission.

And now Jack had passed the threshold of
the door, and was peering through the haze
of tobacco-smoke, fragrantly flavoured from

beakers of steaming toddy, when the well-known
accents of the host welcomed him out
of the mist.

Step this way, Mr Enables ; here's a chair
for you, sir." And with unheard-of condescension,
at which a knot of cronies opened
their eyes, M' Alpine rose from the depths of
an American rocking-chair and pushed it
towards the new-comer. Jack thanked him,
protested and accepted, with an easy grace,
which brought M'M'Alpine's allies metaphorically
to his feet, and perhaps, in a measure,
impressed the great man himself. For though
nothing could be pleasant than Mr Enables's
manner, somehow he had the knack of keeping
his inferiors at arm's length, while treating
them with encouraging familiarity ; and
while swearing he was the best fellow in the
world, they would hardly have cared to take
a liberty with him.

Jack called for refreshment, and handed
round his cigar-case. " Don't let me interrupt
you," he said, lying back easily in his chair ;
and one of the party, who had been primed
with sundry tumblers, took him at his word,
and continued the conversation.

Jack sat listening abstractedly, when suddenly
he pricked his ears. A burly townsman
was discoursing about sundry land lots, which
he asserted to be going for a song, in the
outskirts of the thriving watering-place.

I wonder now that you don't make a bid
for them yourself, Mister M' Alpine. The
town is bound to grow ; and ye ken well that
before now, Dunclaverty has been getting £40
ay, £50 — for his fees to the wast. I believe
that these would fetch as much, were you to
bide your time : anyway, if ye got but half
the money, we'd turn a pretty penny on them.
It's the truth ; and, Mr Baxter, I appeal to
you now, sir ? " addressing himself to the
gentleman next him.

Mr Baxter muttered something that might
pass for an assent ; and even M 'Alpine, who
was often contradictory from sheer " cussedness,"
as the Americans say, did not seriously
dispute the proposition. He contented himself
with grumbling that he had more ground
already than he well knew what to do with ;
and that when a man meant to add a wing,
and maybe a stable-yard, to his hotel, it behoved
him to see to the balance at his bankers.

And so it chanced that the conversation was
changed when Mr Enables had asked some
casual questions, apparently more out of politeness
than for any better reason.

As a rule, he took things easily in the mornings
; but next day he was up and about betimes.
Finding M 'Alpine admiring his flowerbeds,
Jack praised the carnations and picotees,
and offered him some rare cuttings from
Sussex. Then, easily passing from flowers to
shrubs and scenery and land lots, he resumed
the talk of the night before to more practical
purpose. Subsequently he extended his stroll
along the beach, and surveyed certain sunny
stretches of the shore, with an eye to house
sites and ornamental gardening. He came
back with an appetite, and fortified himself
with an excellent breakfast. Still indefatigable,
he went out again ; and was closeted fora
couple of hours with a lawyer and bank-agent,
who, although he set a very sufficient
value on his time, after dragging out title-deeds
and plans from sundry tin boxes, insisted
on escorting his visitor to the outer door
of his office. And a little later, Mr Enables,
with the degage air that sat so naturally on

him, strolled into the private sitting-room,
in which the companion of his travels was
dawdling over a late French breakfast. After
a few observations, of course, he went straight
to his point.

"And now, sir, if it won't interfere with
your digestion, I have come to you for a piece
of advice. The fact is, I am thinking of transacting
a bit of business, and no one can counsel
me better than you."

Spoil my digestion ! Quite the contrary.
There is something refreshing in the sound of
business, when weeks of idleness are ending in
ennui — or would have ended in ennui, at least,
had it not been for your charity and good
company. Really, you excite my curiosity besides.
What business can you possibly have
to transact in this place ? For when you were
kind enough to tell me all about your affairs
the other day, I thought we agreed that the
investment of that money of yours was to
stand over for our future consideration."

Jack liked the sound of the " our " ; it was
pleasantly suggestive of the speculative partnership
he was contemplating.

So we did, sir, and so I had intended.

But chances will turn up, as you know, in
strange places ; and something suggested itself
last night, which I have been inquiring into
this morning."

Then he told his tale, and produced the
memorable pocket-book. There were some
figures in pencil on one of the pages, which
Winstanley examined with considerable interest,
and which were the summing-up of the
case that Jack submitted.

It looks well on paper, I must confess,"
said Winstanley. "But of course all depends
on prospective value ; and you are locking up
your money, remember that. But 'always
distrust a vendor ' is a golden rule. Why does
this Mr Campbell, your lawyer's principal,
wish to sell ? He should know the worth of
his prospects as well as anybody."

"It is not he, it is his creditors. They are
getting impatient for their money, and decline
to wait any longer. And M' Alpine and the
other men last night, who never dreamed of
me as a possible purchaser, agreed that there
was no one on the spot with cash ready to pay
down. If things are as straightforward as they
seem, it appears to me that I can lose nothing,

and may make a good deal. I should borrow
a part of the purchase-money on mortgage,
and merely pay down the difference. My
lawyer friend undertook to have all that arranged
for me. And then I see no sort of
reason why I should not develop the property
at once on a considerable scale. They are
shrewd enough here, but scarcely speculative.
Why not launch an Esplanade and Hydropathic
Company ? — with a palace crowning
that promontory there, and standing in its
terraced gardens. You know something of the
views from the windows, and how one might
make them tell in the prospectus. The landlocked
bay, with the shipping riding at anchor ;
the rugged cliffs of Ferrara ; the emerald verdure
of Gilmore ; the giant mountains of Glen
Etive and the Land of Lome looking down on
the lochs that lie sleeping in their shadows, —
I see it all, sir ; don't you ? "

Hum ! perhaps ! " ejaculated Winstanley,
doubtfully. But it struck Mr Jack that he
objected for form's sake, and that he was
inclined to listen to the voice of the charmer.

Getting out a good Company, and arranging
the preliminary terms so as to make certain

of a fair profit on the launch, is confoundedly
delicate work, my young friend. You may
believe a man who has had some experience
of Company-making."

"No doubt, sir. But that is just where a
few hints from your experience would be invaluable,
and I don't think you will grudge
me them."

But, my good friend, you don't think of
doing all that sort of thing yourself, — with
your £10,000, and — excuse me — with your
inexperience ? "

I have hardly had time to think about it
as yet ; and if I decide that I am hardly likely
to be out of pocket in any case, the first thing
to be done is to secure the property. I have
my reasons for risking something. After all,
if I lose, I am no worse off than I was a few
weeks ago ; if I win, why — not but what I
shall count the chances carefully. I believe,
for example, that if I saw my way, my uncle
Moray, who is rich, would be ready and willing
to stand by me. I was loath to apply to
him in forma pauperis, but I should be glad
to ask his support in a promising speculation.
Nor do I despair of enlisting our worthy landlord

; and let me tell you, that M' Alpine
would be a veritable tower of strength in
Oban here, where his foot is on his native
heath. As for you, sir, you have already
promised me your advice ; so you see that the
betting may possibly be in my favour."

Winstanley drummed reflectively on the
table with his fingers ; then he got up and
walked to the window, which commanded a
view of those picturesque slopes in which Jack
Y enables proposed to sink his capital.

"It is certainly a magnificent landscape,"
he observed, reflectively; "and the air and
the ozone, and all that, ought to be of prime
quality."

Jack, for his part, was musing aloud. " I
can't conceive why that angle of the estate to
the back of the railway station has not been
bought long before now by the Company.
They must want it sooner or later. It is the
very place for a wharf over the deep water,
with rails laid down for landing sheep and
cattle. I should never sell it outright for a
penny under £4000."

In a moment or two Winstanley turned
round abruptly.

Do you think that lawyer acquaintance of
yours will be at home ? "

Sure to be, sir, I should say. He dines at
two — so he informed me ; and now it is barely
one.

Then, if you don't mind, and as you have
done me the honour of consulting me, we will
walk along and have another interview. There
are one or two points which, for your sake, I
should be glad to have cleared up."

The lawyer never dined at two that day.
He was persuaded to join the English gentlemen
in their private sitting-room at 7.30, at
the Dunolly Arms. When he had gone, his
gracious host seemed somewhat embarrassed
and preoccupied. So much so, that Mr Enables,
feeling puzzled and ill at ease, proposed
to say good night, and go down to the smoke
But when he rose and held out his
hand, Winstanley motioned him back to his
seat. He was graver than was his wont, yet
there was no mistaking-the kindness of his
manner. As for Jack, his heart beat quicker
than usual : he felt there was something serious
to be mooted.

Winstanley hummed and hesitated ; then

he spoke abruptly, like a man ashamed of his
hesitation, and resolved, at some risk of misconstruction,
to put matters on a straightforward
footing.

You know I like you, Enables ; you know
I am indebted to you for a great service ; and
you know that I fully intended to help you.
And I believe you like me quite well enough
to be willing to accept any service I could
offer you. But, to own the truth, you have
been rather too quick for me. You've forced
my hand in a manner. As for this scheme
of yours — to be candid — I think it both a
wise and a foolish one. There's money to be
made, almost to a certainty — by a man who
had money to spare and could afford to watch
his opportunities. Indeed I am so far convinced
of that, that I mean to make you a
proposal. But on the other hand, speculation
is speculation ; and those pretty ideas of yours
are intensely speculative, for a fellow with a
mere trifle of capital. No man in your position
can promote companies profitably — to his
own advantage, that is to say — for the pikes
will swallow the minnows. And at best, it
would be absolute folly in the circumstances

putting all your eggs into this one basket.
Now I daresay that, in the brilliancy of your
speculative genius, you think you are carrying
your eggs to a golden market, and might distrust
any one who volunteered to share the
venture."

Jack made a gesture of eloquent negation.

Oh yes — you may protest ; but whatever
may be your opinion now, be sure that your
second thoughts would be suspicious. I have
more than hinted my fears of misconstruction,
and now I shall speak out what is in my mind.
You have had a happy thought about those
Oban land lots, and I should be sorry to see
them slip through your fingers. I am far from
saying that with money sufficient and w T with
patience, those dreams of yours may not be
realised. But believe me, that I think I am
doing you a real service, instead of robbing
you of legitimate gains, when I frankly offer
to share the venture. Take what proportion
you will, and leave me the remainder. I may
add," and here Winstanley threw significance
into the words, " that you shall be no loser by
accepting my offer."

Knowing, as we do know, Jack's sanguine

temperament and secret mind, I need scarcely
say that when his elderly friend had finished
the formal speech, he scarcely knew whether
he was sitting in a chair or balancing himself
on the back. In the course of twenty-four
hours his suddenly inspired coup had succeeded
beyond his utmost hopes. Come what might
of this Oban affair — and he firmly believed in
it — the solidarity of Winstanley & Enables
had become a reality. He fancied he might
carry those sprats of his to a good market in
Oban ; but in any case, with ordinary good-fortune,
his future was assured. He saw a
career of successful speculation before him :
he might propose to his cousin Grace when
next he met her ; and if it were arranged that
they must wait for a year or two, why, he was
content to be patient. Now that marriage
seemed well within his reach, he was persuaded
that he was deeply in love with his
cousin ; but then, when doubts and fears are
changing into certainties, there is delight in
dallying with coming felicity. As for Leslie's
rivalry, time might have worked in favour of
that gentleman ; but promptitude on his own
part would nip any of the hopes that Leslie

could scarcely have begun to cherish. So
thinking, he gradually composed himself ; and
then, by a natural association of ideas, he
remembered Moray's offers of introductions
in China.

Naturally, in his mood of confidence, he
reminded Winstanley of them. Now Winstanley,
like Jack, was essentially a man of
impulse, and of single ideas on which he would
concentrate for the time the full flashes of his
intelligence. He was thinking of indulging
the luxury of gratitude, and forwarding the
views of this young man, who would be a
creditable and profitable protege. He dreamed
of playing the game of ambition at secondhand
in his decline, and using both political
and financial influence in Enables's favour.
So, as was sometimes a habit of his, he thought
aloud, and said —

My dear boy, your going out to the East
would be a mistake. You will do a great deal
better at home, to say nothing of living in
place of existing."

Before the words were well out of his lips,
Jack Enables had thanked him with unfeigned
gratitude ; and grasping his hand with

a pressure that clenched the alliance, had
effected his escape into the open air. And
although Jack had acted for once without the
slightest arriere-pensee, he could scarcely have
played his cards better. He wanted to be
alone and to think ; to revel in the prospects
brightening before him ; to walk himself off
his legs in the sea-air, and relieve the lungs
that seemed to be overcharged. While Winstanley,
left to his solitary reflections, realised
the responsibility he had accepted. In stepping
between this lad and his wealthy uncle —
in setting down his foot on a scheme which
promised ultimate wealth — he had virtually
charged himself with the care of his future.
So that, after all, it was well he could say to
himself in sincerity that he by no means regretted
what he had done, although somewhat
ashamed of having so hastily committed himself
beyond honourable retractation.

VOL. i.

CHAPTEK XIII.

MORAY GOES INTO THE CONFESSIONAL.

Leaving Winstanley and his young companion
to continue their journey to the south,
where we shall meet them again ere many
months are over, we return to the inmates of
Glenconan. Moray had made all the arrangements
for the round of visits of which he had
spoken to his nephew ; and it must be confessed
that Grace was looking forward to
them with pleasure. She might be " a perfect
woman nobly planned," as Leslie thought, and
had once ventured to tell her. But she was
not a bit " too good for human nature's daily
food," and he was very glad to think so. She
knew very well she was attractive, and she
loved to make herself agreeable. Though no
coquette, she did not disdain conquests — what
girl who is worth her salt ever did ? As yet

she had really seen nothing of society, and she
was willing enough to make preparations for
the coming campaign. Her cousin Jack,
though no ascetic in a general way, would
probably have disapproved her correspondence
with Madame Antoinette of Bond Street, and
cut down the orders for costumes. The
dazzling visions his artistic imagination would
have conjured up, of virgin beauty in billowy
white, like a purer Cytherea Venus rising
from the sea-foam, were not to be for him.
As for Leslie, who never gave his confidence
by halves, characteristically he trusted the
sweet refinement of her taste, and was pleased
with anything that gave her pleasure. Were
she ever to be his wife — and perhaps Grace
felt that in such trifles more than in graver
things — he would assuredly be at once the
most trustful and generous of husbands. Not
that as yet there was anything in the least
serious between them : but a girl like Grace,
of course, will have her dreams — especially in
such solitudes as those of Glenconan ; and
when her fancy peopled some future home,
now she might occasionally think of Leslie as
its master.

Grace's interest in her toilets was very
natural, and Leslie looked on and listened
benevolently when she was reading notes
written to London aloud to her father ; nay,
he even volunteered suggestions as to garnitures
and trimmings, which were generally
more poetical than practical. But Moray's
behaviour puzzled him : it seemed so strangely
inconsistent. He knew his uncle to be one of
the most liberal of men ; it was certain that
he doated on his only daughter. He had
given her carte blanche to send for what she
pleased — for, like Leslie, he had confidence in
her taste and discretion ; and yet it appeared
to the young man that he sometimes actually
grudged her things. It was a metaphysical
problem that Leslie was curious to solve, for
he did not like to feel anything but respect
for his uncle ; and had Enables been there to
talk with, he might have enlisted his shrewdness
in attempting to come to a satisfactory
conclusion.

My uncle," he said to himself, " is a man
of sense and firmness ; and if he wished his
daughter to be extremely simply dressed, he
would say so frankly. But I am sure there is

nothing of that in his mind ; and indeed, if it
were left, to him, with his gorgeous oriental
reminiscences, I believe he would be inclined
to over-dress her. I remember how, much
against her will, he made her come down one
evening in cashmeres, and sparkling in his
mother's diamonds. He is proud of her looks,
as he well may be, and proud of her position
as the heiress of Glenconan. That he is willing,
with it all, to let her marry modestly, I
can understand, for he seeks to assure her
happiness before all things. And as he likes
to see her happy, he tries hard to seem pleased
when she is laughingly making much ado
over one of those letters to the dressmakers.
Could she see the cloud that overcast his
face the next moment, my word for it, that
letter would never be sent. For once in their
lives the two misunderstood each other ; and
I should be glad to get at the bottom of the
mystery."

Had it been Jack Enables, he would have
marked and inwardly observed, without letting
his uncle suspect anything. But Leslie was
more deeply absorbed where he was interested :
he gave far less thought to appearances ; and

more than once his uncle caught his steady
and inquisitive gaze, while Leslie's obvious
embarrassment, with an awkward habit of colouring
up, emphasised the scrutiny somewhat
unpleasantly. Moray, as we know, was frank
to a fault, and, moreover, on the most friendly
terms with his nephew, and he justly appreciated
his judgment and character. Besides, he
longed for a confidant ; and being eager to
relieve his mind, was screwed up to the explanatory
point by his nephew's approaching
departure. So it came about that one evening
when Grace had gone to bed, he broached his
subject and dashed into the middle of things.
He laid his hand on the young man's shoulder,
and looked wistfully into his kindly eyes as
if seeking for the sympathy he was sure to
find.

I have been occupying you a good deal
lately, Master Ralph, and you are beginning
to think you may have been mistaken in me."

"Not that, sir, believe me. But since you
ask me, I may own that I see there is a mystery
; and I should be very glad to have it
cleared away, for many reasons, and as much
for my cousin's sake as my own. '

That is the very reason why I have spoken.
Cleared away the mystery shall be, and I have
been longing to make a clean breast of it.
Grace is more deeply concerned than myself ;
and I have sometimes thought she would be
my safest counsellor. But then, as yet she
knows nothing of the world ; and the more
innocent a woman is, the more certainly she
will be swayed by the spirit of self-sacrifice
and an over-sensitive generosity. Now you,
although you are young, are enough of a man
of the world to understand me ; and you have
been living long enough under my roof to make
me recognise you for the soul of honour."

Leslie merely bowed. He was too much interested
to interrupt ; and after all, his conscience
told him that his uncle only did him
justice.

To say the honest truth, if I have hesitated
so long, it is because I feared you would pronounce
in favour of my scruples ; and then
there would be a change in our circumstances
in Grace's future."

He paused, as if expecting Leslie to speak.
But Leslie, all in the dark, did not know what
to think. What he did say was, " I presume

you mean that your fortune is somehow compromised
; but I fancied it had all been satisfactorily
invested."

So far as I know, my fortune is safe
enough ; certainly it is large enough. The
most speculative of the investments are in
sound bank-stocks. No ; I may call myself
a wealthy man, and that is precisely the cause
of my trouble. You stare, as well you may ;
and yet I assure you I am to be pitied. There
has been a cloud cast over my cheerfulness
ever since I came back from the East, with
money enough to clear Glenconan and leave
my girl a wealthy heiress. Do you remember
that drive of ours from the railway station to
the house, when you and Yenables came north
with me ? I don't know whether you chanced
to remark anything, but he was quick enough
to suspect. I have seldom looked forward to
anything more than to that return to my
family home, with the feeling that I had retrieved
the family fortunes. It was like leaving
the fevers of the jungles for the fresh air
of the Highland hills; it was the beginning
of a new life among the grouse and the deer,
in the wild picturesqueness of my native glens.

Yet a skeleton was sitting in the carriage, byway
of bodkin between you and me : in the
very moment of triumphant exhilaration, I
seemed to hear the rattle of the bones. Talk
of skeletons in cupboards : I suppose you may
lock them away and forget them for a time.
But as for mine, it has always been with me,
more or less, of late ; and as the hope that
it would cease to haunt me dies away, I begin
to think that something must be done to get
rid of it."

Leslie was fairly taken aback : he sat in his
chair, silent and expectant. He had made
sure that his uncle had a trouble, but he had
suspected nothing so serious as this. In the
man who seemed moved from all his habitual
self-restraint, and nerving himself to lay bare
his innermost secrets, he scarcely recognised
the cheery and well-preserved old Highlander,
whose spirits should have been as equable as
his digestion was sound. Surely his uncle
must be the prey to some mad hallucination ;
for it was impossible to believe he had reason
to be the victim of remorse. But whether it
were really remorse or a hallucination was the
question he was presently to be asked to decide.

There is no need to go into all the details
of Moray's disclosures. Infinite worry as his
mental anxieties had caused him, it was but a
question of conscience or of casuistry, after all,
and it lay in a nutshell. The first of the
revelations that surprised Leslie was, that the
imperturbable composure of manner, which
seemed to match so well with a constitution
of iron, masked a temperament almost morbidly
sensitive. Making a plunge into the
confessional, Moray had opened the conversation
abruptly.

I said, a moment ago, that I considered
you the soul of honour : frankly, and without
compliments, what should you have said of
me ? "

Why, surely, sir, the question is strangely
unnecessary. I would stake my life and my
own honour upon yours."

I thought as much ; and I do not say you
are wrong. For many a long year I have
never knowingly been guilty of an act with
which I can reproach myself; and if I knew
I had unwittingly injured any man, I would
willingly make him restitution fourfold."

I am persuaded of it, sir, — and so much

so, that if you will forgive my impatience,
I entreat of you to come to the point."

For Leslie, thinking of Grace, knew not
what to imagine, and was inclined to fear the
worst. He might be a fool, but was it possible
that the life of his placid uncle could
hide one of those terrible secrets or scandalous
hypocrisies which one reads of in sensational
novels, or in more sensational criminal trials ?
He must be a fool, and such a supposition
was out of the question ; but in that case his
uncle was the victim of morbid insanity — and
if so, it was scarcely better for Grace.

But Moray, speaking faster than was his
habit, proceeded speedily to set his nephew's
mind at ease.

The long and the short of the story was,
that his conscience pricked him as to the beginnings
of his fortune. And as the constant
dropping of water will wear away a stone, so
with that perpetual pricking his conscience
had become ulcerated.

I was young and poor when I went out to
the East, — young and poor, adventurous and
thoughtless. That is to say, I thought enough,
when it was a question of devising and carrying

out some hazardous but lucrative combination.
But I thought of the end and of the
means to it, and not of their manner or
their morality. There is much to be said in
extenuation, I know ; but extenuation at best
infers culpability. The tone of mercantile
society was free and easy in the Chinese seaports
; in the Straits Settlements, and in the
Malay territories, the morality of the European
traders was still more lax. I did nothing
that was not heartily approved by the representatives
of our leading houses in China ; my
best strokes of business were suggested by
men whose names have always stood above
reproach. One success led on to another, and
I was flattered by the praise bestowed on my
lucky ventures. Gradually I shook myself
loose from more questionable schemes, and
launched out in strictly legitimate trade. But
I can never forget that the best of my early
hits were flagrant breaches of the Chinese
revenue laws, — that I followed them up by
certain trading transactions with Malay rajahs,
which I scarcely think now would bear close
investigation. I was no worse than anybody
else ; indeed I may say I was much better than

many, for I had always my code of honour —
and although it might be elastic, I strictly
obeyed it. No, I can never reproach myself
with knowingly acting dishonourably. But all
the same, as I see things now, I doubt if I
ought to have made the coups which began to
enrich me. And now, Kalph, what do you
say of it all ? "

I have condensed a prolix explanation into
a few brief sentences. Leslie could not help
admiring the frankness with which his uncle
made what was evidently a most trying confession.
Yet it pained him to see the resolute
man, who was in the habit of expressing
opinions briefly and decidedly, as if they
scarcely admitted a rejoinder, pleading hard
for the lenient judgment which might salve
his conscience and reconcile him to himself.
He was touched when Moray added, very unnecessarily,
" Of course you will not breathe
a whisper of this to Grace." He would have
given much to have been able to speak offhand
with such obvious conviction that his answer
must have carried immediate comfort ; but he
could not collect himself sufficiently for that,
and indeed he hardly knew what to say. The

soul of honour, as his uncle had said, he had
not lived in the Anglo-Chinese colonies five-and-twenty
years before, nor could he put
himself in so unfamiliar a position at a moment's
notice. For himself, he would have
been sorry to have made his money by running
opium, or by stretching points with semi-barbarians,
even though these enterprises had
left him with a fortune which would have entitled
him to ask for his cousin straightway.
Yet, on the other hand, he was so anxious
to soothe his uncle's susceptibilities, that in
giving an answer he rather compromised with
his conscience. As happens generally when
we weakly steer a middle course, the trimming
was unsatisfactory to both. Kalph said, somewhat
hesitatingly, that as Moray had always
acted for the best, he ought not to reproach
himself with any peccadilloes he had committed
; that the invariable and unimpeachable
purity of his subsequent conduct should
be a guarantee for his having acted with honourable
intentions. Moray listened sadly, and
shook his head. The answer did not give him
the comfort he had hoped, and his excessive
sensitiveness read between the lines, imagining

more than was passing in his nephew's mind,
and ignoring the difficulties that beset this
young Daniel, called so suddenly to judgment.
Naturally they talked on, going over and over
the same ground, — till Leslie was really converted
or persuaded into saying much that
Moray would have had him say at the first. At
least he warmed up so far as to declare that he
thought his senior's scruples were rather fantastic
; that, at all events, he could hardly
make restitution to the Government or the
rajahs he fancied he might have wronged ; and
that he might set his mind at ease if he made
a good use of his money.

"Ay, there it is!" said Moray. "It has
often occurred to me that I might anticipate
my death, and give away the bulk of my
wealth in charity, or for philanthropical objects
; though, having worked hard and cleared
Glenconan, I confess I should like Grace to
have that — and I think she honestly might in
any case. But what merit would there be in
so far impoverishing myself ? If ; anybody
were to suffer, it would be Grace, who would
suffer vicariously. As for me, give me a quiet
life here in the Highlands, and I should ask

nothing better. But this is where the shoe
pinches. If the money were fairly made, it is
Grace's as much as mine ; and if I part with
it, I am easing my conscience at her expense,
which, as you must admit, would be both
unmanly and dishonest. On the other hand,
if I have really enriched myself by faults —
not to say frauds — I ought to make restitution
somehow and coiite que capite."

Precisely so," said Leslie ; "but you have
repeatedly used the word ' restitution,' and it
appears to me to help us out of the dilemma.
Supposing — I say, that supposing you are
right in reproaching yourself, nevertheless
you cannot restore your gains to the rightful
claimants. I cannot imagine any conceivable
way in which you could rationally set about
it. It follows, then, that you must keep your
money, turn it to useful purposes while you
live, and leave it behind you with a clear
conscience to a child who is sure to follow in
your footsteps."

And that piece of advice," he thought, ashe
gave it, "is thoroughly disinterested; for
it leaves obstacles in my way that might
otherwise be removed. If Grace were to be

poor, or only moderately rich, I think I should
venture to try my fortunes with her on the
moment."

Nor did Moray appear to be much better
satisfied.

I have a foreboding all the same," he remarked,
dejectedly, "that if I do as you
suggest, or, in other words, do nothing, the
matter will be taken out of my hands, and
the difficulty before long will settle itself.
And for myself, I cannot say I should be
sorry. I think that all my investments are
safe and solid ; yet, mark my words, you will
see that money slip through my fingers."
Then, as if ashamed of himself and his superstition,
he tried to give the conversation a
brighter turn — not very successfully. " You
know, my foster-mother came of a family that
had the second-sight ; and possibly she may
have communicated the gift to her nursling."

Then, after a few moments' silence, he spoke
abruptly and like his ordinary self, as if he
had taken a resolution and was determined to
act upon it.

I shall rent a house in London for a year,
from the end of the autumn. Grace must be

vol. I. R

introduced, and should go to a Drawing-room
next spring ; and .she may as well pass the
winter in town. I trust we shall see you
there : there are sure to be plenty of spare
bedrooms."

Whereupon, without waiting for a reply, he
shook hands, and walked out of the room,
leaving his nephew to very grave reflections.

CHAPTER XIV.

Nine months are supposed to have elapsed, as
they say in the playbills. It is early spring
in London, and drawing on towards the beginning
of the season. The Morays are very
comfortably established in a moderate-sized
mansion in Eaton Place. Glenconan had
thought of renting a house, but subsequently
he had changed his views. He had listened
to the words of worldly wisdom as they fell
from the lips of Lady Fortrose, — a far-away
Highland cousin, and a very grande dame.
The Morays, having gone to Fortrose Castle
on a visit of a few days the year before, had
passed nearly a month under that hospitable
roof. Her ladyship had taken a fancy to
Grace ; his lordship and Moray had much
in common. Lady Fortrose having married a

pair of pretty daughters, had her time much
at her own disposal, and welcomed a new
interest. She admired Grace as much as she
liked her, and felt she would be a very desirable
protegee. And if it pleased her to take a
young lady by the hand, it was everything to
the girl from a social point of view. She had
more than the entree to the best society ; admission
to her house was coveted by everybody
save the few who came there as a matter
of course. It opened the gates of possible
paradises to marriageable young women, for
she only welcomed those who were attractive,
and she always managed to have the best
men. Lord Fortrose was an English baron
as well as a Scottish earl ; and though he
spoke but seldom and shortly in the House,
he had always carried a certain weight in
politics. He had collieries in Durham and
coverts in Kent, as well as his famous forest
in Perthshire ; his French cook had taken
honours in the imperial kitchens at Berlin,
as the most promising eleven of Urbain Dunois ;
and his cellars, both in the country and in
town, w T ere celebrated for their well-selected
contents. So my lord's little dinners in Bel-grave

Square launched wealthy young rivers
into her ladyship's small receptions, in the
mood to be soothed by soft music and won
by the witcheries of beauty to wise indiscretions.
And Lady Fortrose, with all her inclinations
to worldliness, was really a worthy
woman and a reliable chaperon. No wonder,
then, that Moray had met her advances more
than half-way, and was willing to listen to
her advice. His motherless daughter could
have no better friend.

He had written to London agents about
houses, and one of them chanced to mention
the mansion in Eaton Place. Mr Moray, he
knew, had not intended to purchase ; but possibly,
under the circumstances, he might be
tempted. The proprietor had suddenly died,
and his heir had given instructions to dispose
of it. It was newly and handsomely furnished
and fitted up : decorations by Trollope, furnishing
by Pillow ; and all in good and simple
style. A moderate price would be accepted
for money down ; and the agent could recommend
it as a safe investment.

Moray mentioned the matter to Lady For-those.
She exerted herself about it in the

most flattering manner! " Really, my dear
Mr Moray, it seems a special interposition of
Providence. Your house and ours will be
within easy distance of each other : Grace can
run across at any time, with the footman or
even with her maid ; and I can always pick
her up of an evening, without going any distance
out of my way. If it were only for my
sake, you must not hesitate. You must write
or better, telegraph at once."

Moray did not telegraph, but he bought the
house ; and hitherto he had no cause to regret
the purchase. Lady Fortrose grew more affectionate
and more motherly every day ; her
husband was almost as fond of Grace as she
was : and so the girl had a couple of homes,
and perhaps more gaiety than was good for
her. She went out shopping with her ladyship
in the brougham of a morning ; she went
visiting with her, or into the Park, in the
barouche of an afternoon. On fine days she
rode out under his lordship's escort when her
father was not inclined to get on horseback ;
and she might have had any number of engagements
in the evenings, but that she often
insisted on staying at home and keeping him

company. As for Moray, he enjoyed the town
life but moderately. He had his clubs, to
which he had been elected years before, on his
occasional visits to England. He had his
cronies, chiefly from the Highlands or the
East — though, being essentially a man of the
world, he made acquaintances in many circles.
There was society enough at the house in
Eaton Place, where the dinners were very
sufficiently well served, if less recherche than
Lord Fortrose's. He often rode out with his
daughter; he sometimes went in for a day's
golfing at Wimbledon. But all the same, the
existence dragged, and would have been still
more wearisome had it not been for two unselfish
sources of pleasure. The one was seeing
his daughter happy; the other, his indulging
himself — for indulgence it was — in many
an action of generous philanthropy. The
memorable conversation with Leslie had borne
fruit in one way if not in another. He had
not made public expiation by sacrificing his
fortune, but he practised liberality on an
almost prodigal scale. He not only drew
handsome cheques for estimable charities, but
he never spared himself; and he mortified the

flesh as much as he indulged it. He had a
vigorous constitution and an excellent appetite
; he was much more inclined to be a bon
vivant than an ascetic ; and when he gave
dinner-parties at home or dined with other
people, he always set his friends a good example.
But after the coffee and cigars, he would
slip away ; or he would charter a cab after
breakfast next morning, and drive off to the
Surrey side or the Borough, or to the poverty-stricken
purlieus of eastern London. He had
struck up an intimacy with sundry hard-working
and self-sacrificing clergymen, who knew
they might always draw on his purse. He
had munificently subsidised certain police inspectors,
who were ever ready to give him
their company or an escort at the shortest
notice. But indeed he had come to be tolerably
well known himself in some of the worst
of the warrens and most squalid of the rookeries
; and he was known for a man who could
take his own part, as he was far from being
pharisaical as to publicans and sinners. More
than once he had been hustled on a dark staircase,
when the assailants had felt the iron
muscles of a man who was more than a match

for half-a-dozen of them. But then he would
distribute shillings in place of soup-tickets,
and seldom asked for a voucher from the
charity organisation society before putting his
hand in his pocket. " Probably," he would
tell himself, " the poor wretch is lying. Certainly
nine pence out of my shilling will be
spent in the gin-palace at the corner — and
what then ? If he gets himself a loaf, I shall
have done a good action; and as for the liquor,
that is his look-out. It is something to forget
one's misery for five minutes ; and if I had as
reasonable an excuse for my own mistakes or
misconduct — why, perhaps I might be justified
in throwing stones at him."

So, while his friends agreed that Moray was
odd, upon the whole they liked and admired
him for his " eccentricities." The more so,
that he left rumour to blow his trumpet, never
letting his left hand know what his right hand
was doing, and only making a confidant of
his daughter — for from her he could keep no
secrets.

CHAPTER XV.

Enables AND LESLIE TALK THINGS OVER.

Leslie and Enables were both in town, and
Grace saw a great deal of her cousins. Moray's
house was always open to them ; and they
drew him," as Jack phrased it, very freely
for luncheon, and not unfrequently for dinner.
Leslie, who loved to be independent, had
declined his uncle's offer of a bedroom, and
established himself in apartments in Jermyn
Street, where he was said to have become a
slave of the lamp. Though he rose early and
took a constitutional before breakfast, after
coming home from dining out or at his club,
he was in the habit of sitting up to most
unchristian hours ; and his friendly landlady
took Miss Moray into her confidence, expressing
heartfelt anxiety as to his health. The
young man looked pale, though perhaps his

handsome face was all the more interesting
for that. But his friends, and Grace in
particular, found him changed otherwise, and
considerably to his advantage. Quiet and
rather prematurely dignified in manner as he
always was, he was more easily moved now
from his constitutional apathy. There was a
sparkle in his hazel eyes which would break
out in flashes of flame on any subject that
interested him ; and more frequently than
before, as he warmed, he would forget himself
and become winningly eloquent. He had
good introductions and connections, and
already he began to make his mark. He
was a welcome guest at many a dinner-table.
Men of station and high reputation listened
to him respectfully — for when he spoke he
always spoke to the purpose ; and there was
a certain poetical originality in his talk, with
a quaint and fanciful humour. Grace watched
him curiously and with cousinly regard.
Womanlike, she admired him more, that
others evidently admired him. Now there
was apparently some purpose in his life. He
seemed to see his way, and to have hopes
rather than aspirations. And from what she

knew of him, * she was persuaded that he
would go forward with determination toward
his determined point, whatever that might be.
As for Jack Enables, there was less doubt
as to his prospects. Unlike Leslie, he made
no secret of his aims, which indeed were
sufficiently obvious. Jack had lighted on his
legs, and was making the most of his chances ;
and it was well for him that it was so.
Steady disappointments or a run of ill-luck
might have crippled him, as cold paralyses
the constitution of a Creole. But with the
feeling that Fortune was patting him on the
back, he played card after card with cool
audacity, and brightened in the smiles in
which he basked. Fortune might pet but she
did not spoil him, and he bore his honours,
such as they were, so modestly that nobody
envied him his luck. It was Winstanley who
had dealt him his trumps, taking a fatherly
pride in him, and standing sponsor to him
in society. Winstanley had done for him
more than Lady Fortrose for Grace. He
could hardly have happened on a more
efficient patron, for Winstanley was welcome
wherever he went, knew everybody who was

worth the knowing, and had opportunities of
doing good turns to so many men, that many
men were ready to fawn upon his friend. And
Jack was more than a friend : he was the son
of the house ; he was become a connecting-link
between its master and its mistress, for
he had carried the heart of Mrs Winstanley
on a first introduction. Jack, who ought to
have known best, and whose worst enemies
could not have taxed him with any want of
candour when it was a question of talking
confidentially to friends, had explained the
situation to Leslie, shortly after Leslie's arrival
in town. Possibly he may have spoken a
little boastfully, but for that we may make
due deduction.

Well, Jack, I presume your career is fixed
now, and you mean to blossom out a full-blown
financier ? "

Financier — financier, — that depends how
you understand the word. If you mean a
professional money-maker who thinks of
nothing else, you never were much wider of
the mark. If you mean that I hope to belike
one of the financiers of the old French
regime, who ground the helpless in their hardness,

that in their ostentation they might be
erase by the noblesse, you never were more
mistaken in your life. A man who goes in
for mere money-making is contemptible. Besides,
I have no fancy for being a cockshy for
the curses of the widow and the orphan. I
don't care about them. But if you mean that
I am likely to have many opportunities of
turning legitimate speculations to lucrative
account, and if you add that I don't intend
to neglect them — there, my boy, you are
right."

Why, Jack, you have turned strangely
fiery ; but you need not be so sensitive on
the point of honour. Wait till anybody impugns
it. I only want to hear how you get
on."

And so you shall, my dear Ralph : I see
no reason for being silent ; and you have a
right to know everything, even if you were
not the very fellow I should naturally come
to in a scrape. You helped me out of one
already, you may remember. Though I
seldom speak of it, I never forget."

It was you and your affairs we were talking
about," rejoined Leslie, hastily. " And

you really like the Winstanleys, and get on
with them ?"

Like them — yes, I like them all ; and as
for the old gentleman himself, he is a trump.
I owe pretty nearly everything to him and
to that shipwreck which I mentioned to you.
My legacy was all very well, and I am most
grateful to the worthy testator ; but it is Winstanley
who has made it fructify in the meantime,
with the hopes of bearing fortyfold fruits
in the future. He has let me in for half-a-dozen
good things already ; and each of them
may be a stepping-stone to something better.
It is all a question of getting the preliminary
capital together ; then it must go on rolling
up of itself."

Ce nest que le premier pas que route ; and
I imagine that initial difficulty has puzzled
many people. However, with your legacy and
your friend, you have so far solved it ; so we
may hope the best. And this discriminating
old gentleman has taken a veritable fancy
to you ?"

To tell the truth, old fellow,— I know it
will go no further, but I love to make a clean
breast when I can, — to tell the truth, it is

something more than a fancy. He overrate
me, I know, but somehow I suit him ; and he
appears to take a sort of fatherly pride in me.
In short, he has made me one of his pet speculations,
and he is determined the speculation
shall succeed. He has employed me already
in all manner of business, and insists on paying
or promising me handsome commissions.
Nor does he ever neglect an opportunity of
pushing me in society ; and he has helped me
to any number of useful acquaintances."

"Well, I congratulate you with all my heart
upon your good fortune ; " and to do him
justice, Leslie probably meant it, though the
unwelcome thought would flash through his
mind, that this gay, gallant, prosperous young
fellow would surely be a formidable rival with
Grace. And perhaps it was by a natural sequence
of ideas that he asked, " And the ladies
of the Winstanley household, how do you
stand with them ? "

Oh, the ladies !" said Jack, laughing ; "I
was an mieux from the first with both mother
and daughter. Mrs "Winstanley wants managing
— perhaps her husband, clever diplomatist
as he is, hardly has the knack of it ; but she

and I hit it off admirably. The day may come
when I may have to choose between the two ;
and then, of course, gratitude must decide my
choice. But in the meantime, Mrs Instantly
and I are the best friends in the world."

And how is it with the fair Miss Julia,
if it be not an indiscreet question ? "

"Indiscreet! By no manner of means. Julia
is very good-looking, — classical features, pearly
complexion, faultless figure, and all the rest
of it ; she is highly accomplished as well : and
of course I admire her, as everybody else does.
But she knows, too, that she can never touch
my heart ; so we are on the easiest possible
footing. Then we are allies, though we have
never acknowledged it to each other, with common
interests and a common object."

"As how, if it please you? You certainly
seem to have made the most of your time."

u Why, simply because hitherto it has been
Julia's mission to keep the peace between her
father and her mother. Perhaps talking of
keeping the peace is going too far, because
they are too well-bred and too sensible to
quarrel. And indeed, I believe Mrs Win Stanley
to be still in love with her husband, other-vol.

I. s

wise she would never bear him a grudge. But
he gave her Art and those speculations of his
for rivals, and she has never forgiven it ; nor
was it flattering that ' duty ' was always sending
him on foreign missions, where the climates
did not suit her constitution. She likes
pictures herself, but she will not sympathise
with his buying them. She likes money, and
she spends a deal of it ; but she has nothing
to say in favour of his happiest speculations ;
and to this day she resents his habit of roving
about the world en jargon. Julia assures me
that her mother was in a terrible taking when
she heard of that shipwreck of ours. Yet
when she received the prodigal on his safe
return, she does not seem to have sinned on
the side of tenderness, and she intimated a
verdict of ' serve you right.' No w r under that
a good-tempered but gouty gentleman was
apt to ride rusty in the circumstances. Then
Julia throws oil on the troubled waters ; and
the girl has even more than her father's tact."
"That is all very well, so far as the young-lady
is concerned, and much to her credit.
But I don't quite understand how Mrs Winstanley
should make you welcome in the

house, seeing you go heart and soul into all
her husband's schemes."

Jack blushed a little. Perhaps with all his
frankness he did not care to declare how
"diplomatic" he had been in domestic talks
with the lady. But it was not easy to take
him aback, and he had a plausible answer.

Oh, that is easily explained. Mrs "Winstanley
is a woman of sense, and understands
her husband by this time. She knows that
he cannot live without his speculations ; that
to the last day of his life, bar gout in the foot,
he would go half across Europe for an ' old
master' that tempted him. But if he is not
to be weaned from his passion, he may do
much of his work by deputy ; and she is willing
he should adopt me as a sort of roving
partner in the concern, as a better kind of
commercial traveller in whose discretion he
may confide. In that case, she might domesticate
and reclaim him, even at the
eleventh hour. For, love apart, she feels it
anything but gratifying that her husband
should show himself almost ostentatiously independent
of her. That at least is my theory
of her motives, though she has never told meas

much in so many words ; and you must
own the theory is plausible."

"Perhaps so," rejoined Leslie, somewhat
dubiously. "Now one other question, and
the examination is at an end." But having
said so much, he hesitated. For the life of
him he could not help the hesitation, though
he would have given much to have spoken
easily as before.

Out with it ! " said Jack, unsuspiciously.

"How comes it, then, that this man and
this woman of the world, with a daughter and
heiress both beautiful and rich, throw her into
the company of Mr Jack Enables, who is not
without his ambitions and his fascinations ?
It must surely have struck them, if it has not
struck you, that Mr Enables might take a
short cut to becoming more a member of the
family than he has been."

If Leslie hoped that, notwithstanding what
he had said before as to his easy footing with
Miss Winstanley, Jack would have added
something now towards relieving him from
the apprehension of any rivalry, he was
doomed to disappointment. Jack, in his
turn, felt embarrassed — but only for a moment.

After all, he had only to say what
Leslie knew, or ought to have known ; and
if he had any doubts, he should have avoided
the subject. So he answered lightly but
decidedly —

I repaid confidence with confidence. I
was frank with old Winstanley from the first,
and told him of my hopes and my affections.
He knows that I have set my heart on Grace.
Whether she will ever have me, who can say ?
In any case, Miss Winstanley is safe, so far
as I am concerned ; and her parents are persuaded
she may die an old maid, for anything
I should suggest to the contrary."

Whereupon he got up and took his leave ;
nor did Leslie make any attempt to detain
him. Jack held that, if anything, he had the
prior claims ; and Leslie could only feel that
it was a fair match between them. Down at
Glenconan, Leslie would have said that the
chances were all in his favour. Here, in London,
he was by no means so sure. Like most
men of real merit, he set a very modest value
on himself; and in the whirl of society, Grace
seemed to be swept away from him into
spheres whither he scarcely cared to follow

her. Should she be demoralised by fashionable
company, she would be no mate for him ;
and though he was sure he could never get
over his disappointment, he was not the man
to go chasing a Will-o'-the-wisp. All the
same, he hoped better things : he could not
forget the communion of their spirits over the
case of the forlorn widow in the Highland
glen. And so, with an effort of the will, he
tried to dismiss the subject in the meantime,
turning for doubtful comfort to his books and
the papers that littered the writing-table.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BI.VCKWOOP AND SONS.

THEREBY. By Far Madoc. Two Volumes, post 8vo, 17s.

"The work is excellent. 'Thereby' is one of those few works of fiction
which come from the pen of the modern novelist which are not simply re-arrangements
and repetitions The novel is original"— London Evening

Neivs.

One of the most thoughtful, and at the same time most amusing and interesting,
novels issued of late Unconventional to a degree in theme,

character, and style, it is one of those books which are ' devoured,' and only
relinquished with regret"— Society.

OAKS AND BIRCHES. By Naseby, Author of 'Only
Three Weeks,' &c. Three Volumes, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

It is a really brilliant novel The great interest of the novel is wrought

with unusual skill and power out of that dominating idea." — Saturday Review.

AN Ill-regulated MIND. By Katharine Wilde,

Author of ' A Dreamer.' Crown 8vo, 7s. cl.

The tale is a sweet, pitiful, perhaps somewhat slight and fanciful, work of
imagination, not without the loveliness of genius illuminating it." — Scotsman.

The tale is told in quaint, pretty fashion, full of peculiar charm"— St
James's Gazette.

The special merit of this tale is the study of one of the female characters.

A story which contains one such study as this must be ranked above the

average"— Pall Mall Gazette.

FIAMMETTA. A Summer Idol. By W. W. Story,

Author of ' Robe di Roma,' 'Griffith d'ltalia,' &c. Crown 8vo,
7s. 6d.

THE ROYAL MAIL. Its Curiosities and Romance.
By JAMES WILSON HYDE, Superintendent in the General Postoffice,
Edinburgh. New Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

The whole of the volume is so full of fascination that, once taken up, it is
difficult to lay it down." — Times.

"An extremely readable and meritorious book. "est James's Gazette.
'•'This volume is a storehouse of amusing anecdotes"— Pa 11 Mall Gazette.

FROM Forti TO Khartoum: A Journal of the
Desert March from Korti to Gubat, and of the Ascent
of the Nile in General Gordon's Steamers. By Colonel
Sir CHARLES W. WILSON, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., R.K., &c;
late Deputy Adjutant-general (Intelligence Branch), Nile Expedition.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, with Maps and Plans. 7s. Cd.

Piccadilly,' ' Traits and Travesties,' &c. Seventh Edition, with
Illustrations, crown 8vo, 6s.

Brilliant and delightful The book is one which every one will read

and greatly admire It contains enough to equip a score of ordinary

novelists for the production of a score of extraordinary novels." — Athenaeum.

May be characterised as a novel of a thousand, if only for the fact that it
may be read through consecutively twice, or even thrice, with augmented

pleasure to the reader with every fresh perusal It is not as a story that

'Altera Peto' challenges warm admiration, but as a brilliant picture of life
and manners 'spectator.

New and Cheaper Edition.

GEORGE ELIOT'S LIFE. As Related in her Letters
and Journals. Arranged and Edited by her Husband, J. W.
CROSS. With Portraits and other Illustrations. Cabinet Edition,
with Additional Matter. Three Volumes, crown 8vo, I5s.

NOVELS BY GEORGE ELIOT. Cheaper Editions. Crown
8vo, with Illustrations. Viz. : —

Adam Bede, 3s. 6J. — The Mill on the Floss. 3s. 6d.— Felix
Holt, the Radical, 3s. 6d.— Scenes of Clerical Life, 3s.— Silas
Marner, 2s. 6d. — Romola, with Vignette, 3s. 6d. — Daniel Deronda,
with Vignette, 7s. 6d.— Middlemarch, with Vignette, 7s. 6d.

NOVELS BY LAURENCE W. M. LOCKHART. New

Uniform Edition in Three Volumes, crown 8vo, 6s. each.

I. Doubles and Quits.— II. Fair to See.— III. Mine is Thine.

THE PRINCIPLES OF SINGING. A Practical Guide

for Vocalists and Teachers. With Vocal Exercises. By
ALBERT B. BACH, Author of ' On Musical Education and Vocal
Culture.' Crown 8vo, 6s.

"A work whose value is unquestionable. It would be quite possible to
write at length in praise of the work, especially of the excellent musical examples,
and to commend its excellence in detail, but the principles are set forward
so clearly and agreeably, that it is not necessary to do more than heartily
recommend all who are interested in the subject to buy the book and master
its contents for themselves." — Morning Post.

THE WHITE ANGEL OF THE POLLY ANN, and
other Stories. A Book of Fables and Fancies. By J. LOGIE
ROBERTSON, M.A., Author of ' Orellana, and other Poems.'
Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

There is greater exuberance of fresh and sparkling imagination, more narrative
grace and quiet sunny humour, than in many a book ten times its bulk.

The book is one from which old readers, as well as young ones, may

derive both pleasure and profit." — Scotsman.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

ji

S#v



■M^Mk

,<:



•»':

£3&£

w&

=^v

• :

01 ^ 'Tj*^

Ifr

j i-j i j

wm

9-m

«*"*

ire

o

I

V

w i

Mush

f

$0

For man is man, and master of his fate."

aeneid.

A NO VEL

BY

ALEX. INNES Hand

AUTHOR OF
AGAINST TIME,' 'LETTERS FROM WEST IRELAND,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IT.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS
EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVT

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP.

XVI. POLITICS AND POETRY,

XVII. MORAY MAKES UP A SHOOTING-PARTY,

XVIII. A BUDGET OF NEWS, GOOD ,

XIX. AND BAD,

XX. MORAY GOES THROUGH THE MILL,

XXI. A COUSINLY CONVERSATION,

XXII. AN EXCITING LUNCHEON, .

XXIII. JACK DRIFTS TOWARDS MATRIMONY,

XXIV. JACK GETS HIS ANSWER, .
XXV. A HAPPY EXPLANATION, .

XXVI. Enables A LA Recourse, .

XXVII. THE SUMATRA COLONISATION Company

XXVIII. THE COMPANY'S NEW RESIDENT,

XXIX. THE CUP AND THE LIP, .

PAGE




























Chapter XVI.

POLITICS AND POETRY.

Possibly Jack Enables might be deeply in
love : he missed no opportunity of making
himself agreeable to his cousin ; but he did
not give much time to sentimental meditations.
Never did any man lead a fuller life,
and his physical energies were inexhaustible.
He might dine late ; he might go to dances
and receptions ; but all the same he would be
up betimes, fresh as if he had gone to bed
at eleven, with a basin of gruel by way of
nightcap. Day after day Mr Winstanley became
more convinced that he could never

VOL. II. A

have hit on an apter pupil, or a more intelligent
and agreeable young companion. Jack
understood him a demi-mot, and spared him
all the trouble of tedious explanations. Making
some slight allowance for necessary inexperience,
he could trust him almost as he
could trust himself. Flying threatening from
his enemy the gout might be a nuisance, but
they were no longer aggravated by business
anxieties. He cast his cares on the shoulders
of his versatile young friend. Then Jack was
always ready to amuse him. He brought the
budget of the afternoon's news to the diningroom
in Berkeley Square ; he was better than
the best of the evening papers, for his chronicles
clu jour were invariably entertaining. He
kept Mrs Winstanley in good humour too,
and acted as a patent lightning-conductor to
avert domestic storms. Altogether, Instantly
blessed the mischance which had so providentially
placed them on so intimate a
footing.

Of course Winstanley was habitually selfish :
but happily selfishness may have its softer
side, and is not always logically consistent,
otherwise the world, where it is a case of

every one for himself, would be an infinitely
more disagreeable place than it is. It might
be supposed that Winstanley, having found
such a treasure, would have done his best to
monopolise it. He might easily have paid his
debt of gratitude indirectly out of his pocket,
and left his protege no reason to complain.
But whether it were that he had become
disinterestedly attached to the young man, or
whether, as Jack had suggested to Leslie, he
took a personal pride in his success, certain
it is that he did not confine himself to either
financial or social patronage ; and one morning
Jack was surprised and touched by a proposal
very unexpectedly made him.

It was his habit to look in at Berkeley
Square after breakfast. Usually he was shown
into Winstanley 's library on the ground-floor ;
sometimes, though not very often, he was
asked to walk up-stairs to the ladies. On this
particular morning Winstanley was awaiting
him with evident impatience. Jack, who had
learned to read him pretty thoroughly, saw
that he had a piece of news to communicate,
and that the news was good and great. So he
put on an impassive expression of countenance,

and waited to be astonished. All the
same, he discounted it in his own mind. " It's
something about that concession of the Trail s-
caucasian Telegraphs ; and perhaps I could
tell him as much as he knows."

You have sometimes thought of trying
your hand at politics — eh, Mr Jack ? "

Politics, sir ! Politics ! Well, yes, I
have — vaguely. I suppose most men in my
position, with fair possibilities before them,
must sometimes think of going into Parliament,
sooner or later. My hands, as you
know, are full enough for the present, and
there is plenty of time before me. But may I
ask whether your question has any immediate
meaning ? "

Assuredly you may ask, and I am ready
to answer. I know your hands are pretty
full ; but it appears to me that you always
manage to get through your business. Naturally
you don't think of Parliament for years
to come. You are far too practical and
sensible. Parliament is no profession, except
for a man of easy means. But there are other
political openings besides the House of Commons
; and politics may be made to pay by a

clever and aspiring young man, irrespectively
altogether of any paltry salary."

No doubt, sir. But as I cannot guess
what you are hinting at, I can express no
opinion on a particular case. I need hardly
say that if you have anything to suggest, it
is sure to command my best consideration.
Hitherto, I have always followed your advice
implicitly."

So you have, and you have been none the
worse for it, I hope ; and you are perfectly
right not to commit yourself rashly, or to take
a jump in the dark. You have heard there
are to be important changes in the Cabinet ? "

Certainly, sir — that is matter of notoriety,
though there are only rumours as to the shuffling
of the cards."

He can't be commissioned to make me an
offer of the Chancellorship of the Exchequer,"
thought Jack, " or even the Chancellorship of
the Duchy of Lancaster, — though that last is
precisely the berth that would suit me down
to the ground."

"Yes, there are to be important changes;
and it has pleased the Premier, not a bit too
soon, to consider the paramount claims of my

brother. The Lord Privy Seal goes to Ireland,
and Wrekin is to take his place."

Jack was, of course, full of congratulations,
which Winstanley received with affected indifference.


"Wrekin should have had office when the
Cabinet was formed, as he had undoubted
capacity for a place of more active responsibility.
However, perhaps the Minister could
hardly have done more for him in the circumstances
; and that he should have done so
much is some apology for the past. But that
is neither here nor there. The offer Was made
and accepted more than a week ago. Now
Wrekin, as it chanced, anticipated me, incoming
to consult about a private secretary.
There were two connections of his who might
plausibly push their pretensions : he did not
greatly care about either ; and in making
choice of the one, he would give deadly offence
to the other. One is Bennington, his wife's
nephew ; the other is Tressylan, his son-in-law's
brother. ' It's a deuced embarrassing
dilemma,' said he, ' for choose which I will,
the pair of them will be always at each other's
throats ; there will be family cabals and all

manner of unpleasantness ; and if I accept
place on those terms, adieu to domestic
peace.' "

' It is an awkward dilemma said I, ' and
the best way out of it is to choose neither.
Then by-and-by, when both have resigned
themselves to the inevitable, you may hope
to enter on a quiet life. Tell Wilmington and
Tressylan that I had your promise ; and as it
happens, I have the very man for you.'

' And who may he be ? ' Wrekin asked,
very naturally. So then I spoke out seriously,
and toll him that you were the man for the
place. At first he protested, and objected to
your youth and inexperience. These, I insisted,
were strong recommendations, considering
your very remarkable adaptability. You
may be sure I said more than enough in your
favour, which I won't make you blush by
repeating. But I reminded him, that though
our acquaintance has been short, I had proved
you already in all manner of ways. I said
that as you knew nothing of the work, he
could train and form you as he pleased ; that
I could answer for your tact, discretion, intelligence,
industry, — all the rest of it. Wrekin

already liked what he had seen of you ; and,
in short, I gave you so good a character, that
you will have to excel yourself in order to
justify it, if you take the post. Which of
course you will ? Its pay is not to be despised,
though that is a secondary consideration.
It sets your foot several rungs higher
on the ladder, and there is no saying how
quickly you may climb. If you make yourself
useful, Wrekin will look after that. Probably
he will be shifted to a less ornamental office :
at any rate, he commands powerful interest —
and I shall be always at his elbow to waken
him up."

Jack grasped the advantages of the situation
at once, and was really overpowered with gratitude.
He grasped Winstanley's hand too,
and thanked him with genuine earnestness.

Personally, of course, it is all I can desire,
and infinitely more than I could have hoped.
There is only one thing makes me hesitate."

And that is ? "

Well, it sounds bumptious, I know ; but I
flattered myself that I may sometimes have
been serviceable to you. As private secretary.
my time would be chiefly Lord Wrekin's or

the country's ; in any case, I should be tied to
town here."

Serviceable ! Yes, of course you have
been serviceable, or I should never have spoken
to my brother. I weighed matters well before
making the suggestion, and decided that any
considerations personal to myself must not be
permitted to stand in your way. Moreover,
there is no reason why we should not continue
to work together ; for the duties of a secretary
demand distraction, and I believe your capacity
for work to be unlimited. Should there
be anything special to be done abroad now
and then, I may make interest with Wrekin
for a few days' holiday ; and with regard to
those various financial schemes of ours, there
will be no harm in your forming political connections.
And as these ripen, and when you
have had a certain political training, we shall
see about the seat in Parliament, where you
may blossom into statesmanship if you can.
If you don't sit in a Cabinet before you die,
you shall only have yourself to blame."

Nothing would surprise me now, sir ; and
if her Majesty sent for me tomorrow, it would
not be much more of a sensation than this."

Well, that you may be ready for any
eventuality, we had better settle this bit of
business out of hand. If you ring the bell
at your elbow there, I shall 'send for the
brougham, and carry you off for official presentation
to my lord."

It said a good deal for Mr Enables's popularity,
that the news of the piece of good fortune
that had befallen him was received with
considerable astonishment, but general approbation.
In fact, his pleasant manners, and
modest though manly bearing, had made him
a universal favourite, and went far towards
disarming envy. Messrs Wilmington and
Tressylan were naturally bitter : they pitied
Lord Wrekin, who must be falling into his
dotage ; as public men and patriots, they deplored
a wanton abuse of patronage. But
nobody else appeared to think that the appointment
was likely to shake the foundations
of the State. The social journals mentioned
the matter rather kindly ; though one of them,
greatly to Jack's annoyance, remarked that it
never rained but it poured, and hinted at the
probability of the marriage of the fortunate
youth with a lovely and richly-dowered heiress,

one of the darlings of Belgravian society. It
was a double-barrelled suggestion, which might
apply equally well either to Julia Winstanley
or Grace Moray, and consequently might be
doubly embarrassing. On the other hand, the
double entendre was so far advantageous, that
neither of the young ladies need take it home
to herself. Nor did the self-consciousness of
either give him any reason to suspect that the
indiscreet canard had been brought under her
notice. Miss Winstanley congratulated him
in all good-fellowship — in the course of conversation
almost giving him to suspect that
she deserved some credit for bringing; about
the arrangement. And as she spoke of the
prospects brightening before him, animation
lighting up her fine eyes, and sending an unwonted
glow through the pure alabaster of her
cheeks, he thought he had never seen her look
so handsome. Oddly enough, for the first
time since he had known her, he felt much
inclined for a little love-making ; but though
fascinated by an unwonted softness in her
manner, he honourably resisted the temptation.


It was almost a duty to say all that was

civil to Miss Winstanley, but it was both a
duty and a pleasure to tell his cousin Grace.
On the memorable day when the matter was
decided, he had arranged to dine in Eaton
Place. It was more than possible that there
might be other guests, and he was anxious to
see his cousin alone. So he sent a note, telling
her frankly that he had something to
communicate which she would be pleased to
hear, and hoping he might find her in the
drawing-room half an hour before dinner.
Grace had her own share of feminine curiosity,
and was dressed and down-stairs ten
minutes before the time. She was going to
a dance under Lady Fortrose's wing in the
evening, and was attired in a prettily-fancied
toilet. Perhaps Leslie might have liked her
all the better in virgin white, with only a
string of pearls and a ribbon or so. But Jack
Enables, whose artistic tastes were more
worldly, freely used his cousinly privileges,
and went into unfeigned raptures over a chef-d'oeuvre
of Madame Antoinette's. If Miss
Winstanley was handsome, Miss Moray was
more what might be called pretty ; but with
her high-bred air toned down by the sweet

simplicity which even her Belgravian experiences
and conquests could not efface, she
might have stepped down from a canvas of
Vandyke's, allowing for changes in the fashions.
What a lovely young matron the girl
would make, to do the honours of the drawing
- room of a rising politician f Yet he
thought at the moment that the world might
be well lost if he could marry her, and live
quietly down at Glenconan. Grace welcomed
him none the less warmly for his evident
admiration ; but she laughingly cut his compliments
short.

You never made a special assignation with
me, Jack, to glorify Madame Antoinette's
designs ; and as I told papa that you were
bringing a budget of news with you, it is
more than likely he may interrupt us at any
moment."

"You don't say so, Grace! And to punish
you for your treachery, I have more than a
mind to say nothing till he does come ; only
that in punishing you, I should sacrifice myself,
and deny myself the pleasure I have been
counting upon all day." Then he changed
his manner, and spoke with more lover-like

softness. " I make so sure that you are interested
in all that concerns me, that I come
straight to you with the intelligence of my
last piece of good-luck." He did not deem it
needful, by the way, to make any allusion to
his parenthetical talk on the subject with Miss
Winstanley.

Oh, I am so glad, Jack ! What is it ? "
Then he gave her the story at length. Nor
had he any cause to complain of want of sympathy.
Grace was delighted, and showed her
pride in his progress ; for, like the best of
women, she was inclined to worship success.
And as his prospects lost nothing by Jack's
painting, and as he had the most heartfelt
faith in the promises of his future, from
private secretary of the Lord Privy Seal to
First Minister of the Crown seemed to her a
very possible transition. Her father, when
he joined them, if less excited, was almost
equally well pleased. He had always believed
the boy had stuff in him ; but as a man of
action, he had never quite forgiven Jack in
his heart for not accepting his offers of introductions
in the East. Now the refusal seemed
amply justified. With Jack's versatility, he

could pick and choose among the openings
that his ready intelligence made for himself.
The boy is born to get on ; and he is honourable
and straightforward to boot, as I have
good reason to say, when I remember what
passed at Glenconan. Who would have
thought, when I half encouraged him in his
audacity there, that he would so soon have
gained the position he has at present ? So
that the legacy of £10,000 becomes comparatively
a bagatelle. If he only continues going
forward as he has begun, Grace might do
worse from a worldly point of view."

At that very moment the door was flung
open — not to announce dinner, but "Mr
Leslie." Leslie, like Enables, was always
made welcome in Eaton Place, on the chance
of his uncle dining at home. " Ah, I was
forgetting Ralph, poor fellow ! " mused Moray.
Well, he must take his chance, like other
men ; for me, I can only say of Grace — ' How
happy might she be with either ! ' '

Leslie walked in very briskly for him, looking
unusually bright and well. Grace, who
was full of what she had just heard, burst
out and told him all about it. Not one of

Jack's many friends were to be more cordial
in congratulations. As Leslie seized him by
both hands, and told him frankly how very
glad he was, Jack felt humiliating pangs of
self-reproach. Had not a very considerable
part of his satisfaction come from the thought
that he had made a fresh advance on Ralph ?
that the hare was running right away, and
that the tortoise was left hopelessly behind?
Yet Leslie had saved his life ; and that evening,
in the wild hills of Lochrosque, he had
vowed and felt eternal gratitude. However,
his confusion was not remarked, or was set
down to anything rather than the real cause.
And when the dinner was over and the servants
had withdrawn, as the party returned
to the subject, his self-complacency was nearly
restored. After all, a man cannot altogether
control his thoughts, — and it is something to
be sincerely ashamed when they are discreditable.
When the subject seemed pretty well
exhausted, he changed it : vanity whispered
that more than enough had been made of
what, a year or two later, might appear trivial
in the retrospect. And it was then that Leslie,
speaking more deliberately than usual, remarked

that he too had something to say that
might interest them. " Although," as he modestly
added, "it is much less exciting than
Jack's communication."

Never mind," said Moray ; " let us hear
and judge for ourselves."

Grace smiled kindly on him, but did not apparently
expect to be much startled a second
time. As for Jack, he was necessarily preoccupied
: nevertheless he constrained himself
to listen politely, and to be ready to say something
civil.

The truth is," said Leslie — and he looked
at Grace, — "the truth is, that I have taken
the bull by the horns at last;, and brought out
a little volume of poems. It embodies some
of my pleasantness memories of the Highlands,
and one or two dramatic scenes at Glenconan."

Whereupon, and at the mention of scenes
in Glenconan, Grace expressed unmistakable
interest. As for her father, who did not
greatly care for poetry, he merely said that
he hoped the book might be successful. But
he spoke in the doubtful tone that forebodes
discreditable failure. Had Leslie been less
generous, he might have enjoyed his revenge,

VOL. II. B

when he went on to explain quietly that the
volume seemed to have scored a certain success
already, though it had only made its appearance,
and anonymously, in the beginning of
last week. Jack Enables pricked up his ears,
and broke out, " Surely you don't mean ' The
Idyls of the North ' ? You don't mean to tellus
that you are the author ? "

"That is just what I do mean. But here
are the first-fruits of fame, with a vengeance !
I did not think that poetry was much in your
line, Master Jack."

No more it is, as a general rule, and I am
ashamed to say that I have not looked beyond
the back of the ' Idyls.' But an exceedingly
handsome book it is — externally ; and it is
just like you depreciating it as a little volume.
It is lucky that you are not left to blow your
own trumpet in the way of criticism. The
fact is, I was dining last night at the Winstanleys'
— it was rather a literary party ; they
got talking of this new poem, and half the
men were in raptures over it. Cutler, the
editor of the ' Critical World,' was there, and
he said he remembered no volume of poems in
his time, except by the Laureate, or Browning

or one of the big swells, that had been so
promptly and favourably received."

So my publishers assure me," said Leslie.
In the course of the last few days there have
been reviews in the ' Times ' and the ' Saturday
Review,' the ' Athenaeum ' and the ' Critical
World' — all of them only too flattering. I
can only attribute the prompt appearance of
the articles to friendly interest made in my
favour. Before publishing, I had taken the
opinion of one of the illustrious authors Enables
named — not the Laureate, by the way —
and he expressed himself so pleased by some
of the little poems, that he insisted upon
carrying the manuscript away, to show in
strict confidence."

"I do not know how that may be," said
Jack, "but no one seemed to think that the
reviews were too flattering — quite the reverse.
Old Cutler paid you the compliment of remembering
a couplet or two from ' The Highland
Widow,' I think he called it, and declaiming
it over his claret with most seductive effect
and emphasis."

There Grace again caught Leslie's eye ; and
Jack, who intercepted the look, was far from

liking it. He could make his cousin's eye to
dance and sparkle, but Leslie was telegraphing
dangerous sympathy. However, he was resolved
to expiate his fault in having crowed
over Leslie when he got his appointment ; and
chivalrously, although considerably against the
grain, he went on singing in solo at secondhand
the praises that had resounded round the
Berkeley Square dinner-table. Grace listened
with an attention that was doubtfully gratifying.
When he had done his duty, and seemed
to have run down, she rose and left the diningroom.
Immediately afterwards the bell in the
drawing-room was heard to ring sharply. And
when the gentlemen, some time afterwards,
followed her up-stairs, they found her sitting
up to the ankles in news-sheets. She had
sent a servant to knock up the nearest news-agent.
She came forward to meet Leslie, with
both hands extended.

Oh, Ralph, if you were only proud as I
am ! But you seem to take it all as if it
were a matter of course ; and perhaps you are
right."

Don't fancy that," Ralph hastened to protest.
"If it really should prove a success, it

has taken me entirely by surprise. If I sometimes
dared to dream that I had something of
the poet in me, I distrust the popularity that
takes the public by storm."

Nonsense ! " exclaimed Moray impatiently,
for he could neither understand nor sympathise
with his nephew's sensibilities. " Byron
woke up one morning to find himself famous,
and you may safely condescend to make a
reputation in the same way."

And success is the test of merit or genius,"
added Jack, sententiously. " You may depend
upon that."

Only listen to this, and to this, and to
this," chimed in Grace,, picking up two or
three of the papers, and rapidly reading extracts
from them. It must be owned that
Leslie never found her voice so musical, and
the flattery that fell from her lips sounded not
only sweet but true. And still more seductively
sweet were her accents when she began
to favour them with some passages from the
poems. She knew best why she did not begin
with an extract from " The Highland Widow,"
though it was uppermost in her thoughts. But
she charmed them with a picture of the wooded

ravine in Glenconan at daybreak — which made
Moray bring his hand down on the table,
declaring that he saw the very scene before
him. And she quoted an idealised and slightly
humorous sketch of Donald Koss, which made
Enables burst out laughing.

When the old fellow recognises it, as he is
sure to do, I don't know whether he will be
gratified or owe you a grudge. You have hit
his foibles off to a hair, and yet you have
touched his good points so prettily that he
might be a saint or a hermit instead of a
Highland keeper. The portraiture is inimitable,
and yet it is hardly Donald. It is Donald
as he might appear in Paradise with some lingering
taint of the flesh, and with as strong
a smell of the hunting-field still about him as
if he were an Esau just come home from the
chase. The poet's pen, with a discreet use of
a fanciful imagination, leaves the painter with
his brushes leagues behind. Do you remember,
Grace, how I tried to touch off your friend
Donald for you ? but only put my daub alongside
of Kalph Leslie's verses, and then tell me
how you should place the two."

Now this was exceedingly generous of Jack,

far more generous than any one, except
perhaps Grace, suspected. The praises of the
poems were gall and wormwood to his more
worldly nature. Grace's undisguised admiration
for them was fresh fuel with a blast of
the bellows to the smouldering fires of his
jealousy. But the self-reproaches, before
Ralph had come forward in this new character,
had given him timely warning to stand on his
guard. So with a manly effort he pulled himself
together, bringing his will to the succour
of his better feelings. It is a question for
casuists how far he had conquered, seeing that
his heart was at variance with his lips. But
Grace, who had not been unconscious of the
strife, gave him all credit for his victory ; and
it was apparently destined that when either of
the rivals made a start, the other was to come
closely treading upon his heels.

Chapter XVII.

MORAY MAKES UP A SHOOTING-PARTY.

It is a ridiculous arrangement which keeps
London society simmering in double-baked
bricks and smoking mortar down to the very
dregs of the dog-days. The lords and the
ladies of the loveliest scenery in the three
kingdoms, deliberately prefer the dull prose
of " sc-city " to the poetry of nature, and leave
the freshness of the fields and the fragrance
of the flowers for confinement behind the
prison-bars of their basement areas. Among
caviare and curries, and other acquired tastes,
surely none is more capriciously extravagant
than that of inhaling the noxious gases of the
town, when the good of the land of England,
to say nothing of the Continent, lies before
them. To turn day into night in crushes,
with the thermometer at 85°, making the

digestion of dyspeptic dinners an impossibility ;
to tempt the overrated appetite with truffled
pates and plovers' eggs and champagne, when
they should be sweetly locked in the embraces
of Morpheus ; to waken from weariness to the
drudgery of the inevitable round — for tomorrow
is as yesterday and as many days before
it. It is all a matter of taste and fashion, of
course ; but were they condemned to the life
they are pleased to lead voluntarily, the lot
of convicted criminals might seem enviable by
comparison. These at least have a chance of
getting into condition on the tread-mill ; and
after the jail delivery they come out with the
satisfaction of having economised their constitutions,
in place of having drawn heavy drafts
upon them. Yet it is almost pitiful to see
how natural sensibilities survive in spite of
the demoralisation that is consecrated by tradition.
A blighted clematis or blackened ivy
trails its tendrils sadly round the dining-room
windows ; and the millionaire, self-banished
from his gardens, gives a florist carte blanche
to renew the bloom in the flower-boxes in the
windows. Those who have Eden of their own-within
easy reach, go for the daily drive or

ride by the Serpentine, and gladden their eyes
with the beds of Park Lane, which are the
natural delight of the London destitute. But
there is good in everything, as Shakespeare
remarked ; and it is an ill wind that blows
good to no one. London tradesmen grow rich
in spite of the competition of the co-operative
stores ; and fashionable physicians fatten on
the maladies of their fellow-mortals.

We do not deny that there are bell-wethers
to lead the flock, who are never really happy
anywhere out of London. We know that the
disreputable old Duke of Queensberry, who
loved society, probably because he did not
care to be alone with his conscience, declared
that it was the best place to live in, in the
season or out of it, because there were always
more people in it than anywhere else ; nor can
we imagine a George Selwyn making himself
happy in Gloucestershire, or a Horace Walpole
in Norfolk. But as a rule, in most habitues
of Mayfair and St James's, there is still so
much of the healthy human instinct, that they
welcome the day of their release from the
grimy bondage they impose on themselves.
Nay, they may argue with much philosophical

truth, that they evolve good out of evil, and
pleasures from previous suffering. As the
wise man who is setting his face towards the
Elvira in the winter, will wait till our frosts
and fogs have made him thoroughly miserable
here ; so the Alps or the Highlands, even the
dulness of the German baths, will seem delightful
by way of contrast to the purgatory
of Pall Mall. And if that be the experience
of the hardened votaries of fashion, who are
lulled to sleep by the rattle of the wheels, and
try to see reflections of their heaven in the
glare of the gas-lamps, how much more must it
be the case with those who are caught up in
the fashionable whirl, chiefly because they are
able to afford its dissipations ! Had it not
been for the sake of his daughter, Moray
would never have spent more than a week or
two in London. The house in Eaton Place,
which he was bound to inhabit, was an incubus
that often lay heavy on him. As for
Grace, she was young and fond of gaiety : she
had been followed and flattered by compliments,
paid gracefully or clumsily ; and she
had made sundry conquests, more or less
serious, which she estimated pretty much at

their value, but which, nevertheless, pleased
her. She liked dancing ; the mere excitement
of the exercise freshened her up, however
fagged she might be ; and to the very end
of the season, like a well-bred but overtasked
hunter, she pricked her ears to the sound
of the waltz, and went best pace over the
floor, with elbow - room and a satisfactory
partner. Nor did she look so pale as might
have been expected, when she came down the
next morning to breakfast. Yet even Grace,
though in her first season, began to feel that
she had enough of the pleasures of the town.
She found herself envying her friends who had
already gone off to the country. Notwithstanding
her southern training, she was a true
Highland lassie at heart : often the Serpentine
would fade from before her eyes, giving place
to the wild shores of Lochrosque or Loch-conan
; while, though dinners at Richmond
or Greenwich were all very well, she would
have given the views from the Terrace or the
Trafalgar for a glimpse of Ben More or .
The Morays had stayed on in town
longer than they had intended. Moray, who
always did with all his might all that his hand

designed to do, declared that he had work in
East London which must be disposed of, before
he could leave with an easy mind.

But at last the day of their departure had
come, though not before the second week of
August, It is hard to say which of the two
had looked forward with more enjoyment to
their return to the hills. Moray's original
intention and desire had been to have his
daughter all to himself for a week or two ;
but accidents, or rather his natural hospitality,
had been too much for him. Had they gone
north a little sooner, the tete-astute might have
been managed, but the delay had put it out
of the question. The Twelfth would be upon
them in a day or two : Donald had sent the
most glowing account of the grouse prospects
; and it would be churlish and 
to keep the birds all to oneself.
Moray felt bound to ask Jack Enables
for the grand day ; and Jack, who had been
looking out for the invitation as a matter
of course, had already, with his usual forethought,
secured himself leave of absence.
Jack once asked, it became imperative to
include Leslie in the party, not only because

otherwise he might well have felt hurt, but
on the principle of holding the balance even
between the two. Leslie, in his civility, had
made a hesitating answer.

You know I don't much care about shooting
; and if you want to fill the bags, and
figure creditably in the county papers on the
Twelfth, you had better let me postpone my
visit. I shall always find the rocks and the
river, the balmy air on fine clays, and the
storms sweeping down from Funachan ; and
you know that is what I like the best."

But neither Moray nor Grace would hear
of that.

Come to us, you must and shall," said the
former ; " that is to say, unless you have anymore
enticing engagement. It would not bea
family party without you ; and a family
party I mean to have, after those months of
living at a loose end in London here. And
as for shooting or not shooting, of course you
can do as you please. You should be much
more the master of Glenconan than I am, now
that you have identified your genius with the
place. You must come to be inspired for a
second volume, that shall assure immortality

to our sequestered glens. No doubt you will
become a nuisance to us sooner or later ; but
that is one of the penalties of fame. We shall
have troops of tourists trespassing on our
solitudes, crowds of poetry-stricken pilgrims
scaring the deer. I believe Donald Ross to
be devoted to the Celtic bards ; but after allas
they sang in strains which nobody understands,
they are as little appreciated as Ossian
by the Southern. When Donald realises all
you have done, and learns that you have
pulled the string of a perpetual douche-bath
of trespassers, he will bear you a grudge you
will never get over."

As may be gathered from that unusually
prolix speech, Ralph Leslie had greatly advanced
in his uncle's good opinion. In his
good opinion, that is to say, so far as the
gifts that help a man forward are concerned.
For since it had become an open secret everywhere
that Leslie was the author of the much-admired
volume of poems, his company had
been greatly courted ; and had he been the
sort of man to have his head turned, it should
have been wellnigh twisted off his shoulders.
Moreover, it was just as little of a secret

that the book had sold extraordinarily well.
Muche, as well as Mr Smith and the minor
purveyors for the public, had kept sending
in fresh orders. With all the practical sleight-offhand
of the circulating librarians, they
could not supply their customers sufficiently
quick. Besides that, 'The Idyls of the
North ' was a book which, unlike the ephemeral
" trash " turned out by us, the professional
spinners of fictions, commanded a very considerable
private sale. It was the sort of
gift-book to be interchanged by sentimental
young ladies who found the masculine spirit
it breathed act as a tonic on their languishing
temperaments. It was the kind of book that
a sighing lover might send to his mistress,
with passages marked that gave eloquent
utterance to the vague thoughts he could
hardly hope to express. Moray cared little
for the pecuniary aspects of the matter — he
did not much believe in the possibility of
making a fortune by the pen — but he did
think a good deal of the celebrity. He
admired the genius he had scarcely cultivation
enough to appreciate ; and confessed that
Leslie was treading a far loftier path than

that which as a dashing adventurer he had
walked over with tolerable success. And
if the sober Moray was so far impressed,
we may imagine that his more romantic
daughter had followed suit. She said
nothing to back up her fathers pressing
invitation ; indeed she saw that it was quite
unnecessary. But Leslie, when he looked upto
consult her eyes, had no longer any hesitation
in assuring his uncle that he would
gladly take him at his word.

What with rambling passages and wasted
space, there was no great number of guest-chambers
in the old house of Glenconan. But
when once the tete-astute had been broken in
upon by the presence of his two nephews,
Moray decided to make the most of his accommodation.
Two or three other men had
been picked up for the opening of the shooting
season, all of them keen sportsmen, and
reported to be crack shots. There was Mr
Calverley Baker, member for Pontypool, partner
in the wealthy firm of Welsh ironmasters,
and one of the most promising of the young
Opposition speakers in the House. There was
the M'Claverty, chieftain of the clan of that

VOL. II. c

name, and a far-away cousin of the laird's,
who drew a handsome revenue from his barren
heritage, now that it had been parcelled
out in deer-forests, grouse-moors, and sheep-farms.
And there was General Battery,
who, though getting on in years, was active
as ever, who had been a gay young subaltern
five-and-twenty years before, when Moray
had made his acquaintance in garrison at
Hong Kong.

When Jack Enables heard of these additions
to the party, he would have undoubtedly
made a wry face, had not his features
been under command. Old Battersby was
all very well, and a capital companion either
on the hill or in the smoking-room, though,
with a touch of the formal courtesy of the
older school], he was always saying something
complimentary to Miss Moray. But Waverley
Baker and the M'Claverty might just as
well have been omitted. They were unmarried,
rich, rattling, and consequently eligible ;
and Jack, though self-confident, was not unnaturally
somewhat jealous, and looked upon
all men as possible rivals. However, as there
was no help for it, he resigned himself to the

inevitable ; and after all, he felt in his heart
that as Leslie was " favourite " in the race,
the ruck " counted for little. He cared
still less, one way or another, when he heard
that a certain Mr Maitland, formerly a merchant
in Shanghai, with his wife, who was
rather a friend of Grace's, were to fill up
the house. A few days afterwards, however,
his uncle had incidentally returned to the
subject.

I have just had a call from Maitland, who
came to throw me over ; and a nuisance it is,
for I hate having my plans upset ; though
I have no right to be out of temper, and it
is worse for him than for me. It seems his
liver is out of order, and Jenner has ordered
him away to Carlsbad. I always thought he
was too hard on that old Madeira of his,
though I must say it was enough to tempt
any man. How well I remember it myself
in Shanghai ; and the East is the only climate
to enjoy the wine. However, he can't come,
and I am exceedingly sorry. You see I am
filling the house with guns, and his wife
would have been a nice companion for Grace.
I hardly know whom to ask in place of them."

No difficulty about that, sir, I should say.
I could name a score of your acquaintances
off-hand who would give their ears to go
down to Grlenconan."

"Possibly. But a party in a Highland
shooting-quarter is like a salad : a mistake in
the mixing simply poisons it. Now I thought
the Maitland would have given it flavour,
without disturbing the harmony. But come,
Jack, I see you have an idea — you always
have — so let me hear what you suggest."

I was only thinking, sir, that you and Mr
Winstanley get on capitally together ; and I
believe that he would be too glad to make one
of the party."

"The Winstanleys ? Why, it was only the
other day he told me that they were all going,
for a month or more, to his brother's place in
Shropshire."

If you care to have him, ask and try. I
am willing to lay two to one on the result."

You speak oracularly, Master Jack. What
do you mean ? "

Why, just this. I ought to know Mr
Winstanley pretty well by this time ; and
after having had something like six months of

Well, if we can prevail on him, I am sure
I should be delighted. And if he brought his
daughter, she could keep Grace company instead
of Mrs Maitland. The girls seem to get
on very well together."

I don't think that would do," exclaimed
Jack, with great decision. "Mr Winstanley
could hardly bring his daughter without offering
to take his wife, — which, to be candid, I
don't think he would consent to do, even
supposing you could put the whole of the
family up."

For though Jack believed his regard for
Miss Winstanley to be purely platonic, on the
whole he foresaw considerable embarrassment
in having both of the beauties on his arms at
once. At all events, his argument seemed
unanswerable to his uncle, who declared that
he could not undertake to make both the
ladies comfortable. Moreover, Mrs Instantly

rather oppressed him ; and when he went
down from Eaton Place to the Highlands, he
fully meant, metaphorically, to exchange the
Court suit and ruffles of his London life for
the ease of a loose shooting-jacket and knickerbockers.


But with the Hon. Mrs Winstanley's husband,
it was a different affair altogether.
Brought together originally by Jack Enables.
the ex-diplomatist and the ex-merchant had
struck up something very like a friendship.
When Winstanley had reminded Moray of
having met him long before at our Minister's
table in Pekin, the Highlander had rather
abruptly changed the subject. As we know
from his frank talk with Leslie, those early
Eastern reminiscences of his were at once a
pleasure and a pain. How gladly would he
have lived the life over again in all senses,
with the exhilarating stimulus of its perpetual
excitement, and the mistakes that might
be rectified or avoided ! But though, with his
regrets and its pleasures, it was perpetually in
his mind, he did not care to talk of it with
strangers, still less with a singularly well-informed
man like Winstanley, who might be

supposed to know some of the secrets of the
trade by which Moray had made his money.
Nevertheless, it proved to be something like
the case of Johnson's meeting with Foote at
Fitzherbert's dinner table : " I was resolved
not to be pleased ; . . . but the dog was so
very comical, that I was obliged to lay down
my knife and fork and laugh it out. No, sir
he was irresistible." Winstanley was so
pleasant a companion that Moray was pleased
in spite of himself. And Moray came to
draw to him at last, for the very reasons for
which he had at first shunned him. Instantly,
though an honourable man according to
his lights, was no fastidious moralist. He
drew a line which, as a British diplomatist, he
had never passed himself ; but he admired the
dash of the free-traders who had gone beyond,
being fettered by no official responsibilities.
He was far too well-bred to persevere with
disagreeable subjects in ordinary circumstances
; and he could not help remarking that,
when he touched on oriental matters, Moray
was ever ready to turn the talk. He may
have attributed that reserve merely to the
natural modesty of the man. At all events,

lie would work round to the topic again and
again, showing an interest in it that was
somewhat out of keeping with his character.
Had he appeared to have any ulterior motive,
Moray would have shut up like an oyster, and
let it be understood very unmistakably that
he would not be forced to speak. But Moray's
penetration seldom deceived him, and he was
persuaded that this man of wider experiences
than his own was veritably amused and interested.
As Winstanley had said once, in a
moment of unwonted expansion on both
sides —

It does delight my heart to listen to you,
Moray. You are as good as a romantic
volume of travel, sport, and adventure, withall
the padding left out ; or rather you are
worth a whole library of volumes, when we
can prevail on you by some chance to do
yourself justice. There is nothing I should
like much better, even at my time of life, than
to take a passage in a P. and 0. boat to Hong
Kong, and to go coasting down the Malay
Peninsula to see what that new company proposes
doing in Sumatra, and whether it is
worth while going in for investments. Unfortunately

it is too late ; Mrs Winstanley
would sue for a separation if I proposed it ;
and fancy the horrors of a voyage in the
tropics if one were laid on the back by a fit
of the gout ! No, going is out of the question ;
so the next best thing is making the journey
under the guidance of a man who is the 
Cook of tropical tours in
the fancy."

That Moray believed to be the actual state
of the case ; and believing it, he became so
ready to talk, that at last it was he who
would sometimes lead the conversation in that
direction. Winstanley, as a rule, was by no
means addicted to letting anybody else indulge
in monologues. He liked to hear himself
: to do him justice, he was generally worth
listening to, and nobody was more quickly
bored. But he treated Moray as something
between a melodramatic piece at the Porte St
Martin and a sensational romance by Jules
Verne. He could come and take him up at
any time, without being tied to hours or to
cramped stalls in the pit ; without even the
trouble of holding a cumbersome book, or the
necessity of denying himself his cigarette. Soit

came about, that very often of an evening
the two men met in one of their smoking-rooms,
for it was only coarse tobacco Instantly
objected to. The emotional side of Glenconan's
Celtic nature would get uppermost :
he would rise out of his lounging-chair and
tramp across the room, half acting the scenes
he so dramatically described ; while his audience
of one would keep him up to the mark
by paying him the compliment of the most
intelligent attention.

Really, on these by no means rare occasions
it would have been worth while to put either
eye or ear to the keyhole. Winstanley would
leave a business-like Board meeting in the
City, or the whist-room at the "Travellers,"
to pass the latter hours of the night in a
gilded mirage of cigarette and cheroot smoke,
conjuring up a succession of mental pictures
that were vividly stamped on the mental retina
next morning, and which his memory
was always recalling through the day. Well
might Jack Enables opine that he would be
willing to accept an invitation to Glenconan.
Jack seldom spoke confidently except on a
certainty ; and more than once Winstanley

had expressed a warm admiration for his
uncle,

"You neglect your opportunities, Jack, in
not joining us more often, though perhaps the
nabob might be less animated in that case ;
for he seems to think that two are company
and three are none. Till I got him into the
habit of those tete-astute rehearsals of the past,
I had not the faintest idea of half that is in
him. If he has not been everywhere — for
there, at least, I have the advantage of him —
he has done almost everything man could do
within the sphere of his indomitable activity.
Sometimes I think he is just the fellow to doit
all over again ; sometimes I don't — for occasionally,
when the excitement dies down, I
could almost fancy that he looks back regretfully,
which, of course, must be absurd. But
I tell you, sir, again, you ought to hear him
when he shows to most advantage ; it is better
than any number of plays, even as plays used
to be when I was a boy."

"Why, sir," Jack might say, "if ever my
uncle should come to grief, according to you,
he might make his fortune on the boards."

Or in lecturing on ' Passages from my

Past,' in the States — the sort of thing that
seems to be the fashion nowadays. But no —
that would never do ; he is far more self-conscious
than any of his friends suppose, and
he wants a select and appreciative audience of
a solitary listener. As I said, however, you
ought to hear him. Now we are becalmed off
the banks of surf, breaking over coral-reefs,
with unearthly stillness brooding in the air,
before the tornado bursts from the storm-clouds
; and nothing to be heard in the meantime
but the creaking of the blocks on board,
or the screams of the sea-fowl floating towards
the shore. Now we have got up the back of
a tyrannical Rajah, who is hesitating between
ordering us off to immediate execution, or
handing us over to the tender mercies of the
tormentors ; or we are threading the j angles,
looking over our shoulders in terror, expecting
a flight of poisoned arrows out of the thickets ;
or we are awakening from pleasant dreams of
Scotland in a hammock slung in the shade of
a spice-grove, to see a cobra or an anaconda
hung up by its tail, with its forked tongue
within an inch or so of our opening eyelids.
But I only say again, you ought to hear him."

While, if Winstanley was willing to go
down to Glenconan, Moray, now that it had
been suggested, liked the idea of having him
there. Though in the bottom of his heart —
or rather, in the depths of his conscience — he
was inclined to distrust this new friend as an
evil genius. That good-humoured companion,
with his easy philosophy, was the very opposite
of Ralph Leslie. Had Moray been under
sentence of death, it was Leslie he would have
sent for to play the confessor. But when the
world, with its wicked old memories, got the
upper hand, Winstanley was assuredly the
more agreeable companion. A man, too,
whose honour there was no impeaching, and
who was welcomed as the embodiment of integrity
on the best Boards in the City. Yet,
upright as he was, and with his unblemished
antecedents, Moray would never have dreamed
of submitting his scruples to him. Not because
Winstanley would have condemned, but
quite the contrary. He would have ridiculed
the scruples he could not even understand —
if ridicule had not been a breach of good
manners ; and Moray, though he might wish
to be convinced, had no desire to be deluded.

Chapter XVIII.

A BUDGET OF NEWS, GOOD .

For reasons best known to herself, it occurred
to Miss Winstanley that it would be pleasant
to accompany her father to the North. Not
by any means that Wrekin Castle was likely
to be dull, for her uncle was sure to fill it
with company. Her first idea was to sound
Mr Enables in all good - fellowship, as to
the possibility of getting an invitation. On
second thoughts, and again for reasons best
known to herself, she changed her mind, and applied
to her father. Winstanley was no such
doting parent as Moray ; and yet Julia, though
with more trouble and diplomacy, generally
succeeded like Grace in getting her way. Had
she not known him well, when she broke the
matter to him, his manner of receiving the proposal
would have effectually discouraged her.

Nonsense, my dear. It would not be the
thing at all — quite out of the question, as
your own good sense must tell you. In the
first place, you ought to stay with your
mother ; in the next, and that is still more
decisive, I don't know Moray sufficiently well
to take a liberty with him. Those Highland
houses are always filled for the Twelfth, and
you may rely upon it that no rooms are going
a-begging."

He felt immediately that if he meant to be
firm, he had better have stuck to a flat refusal.
By weakly giving reasons, he admitted
the thing was not impracticable ; and Miss
Julia, seeing her way, immediately set herself
to argue.

Mamma is always glad I should amuse
myself, and she is always perfectly happy at
the Castle. Besides, I need only be away fora
fortnight or three weeks at the most. As
for not taking a liberty with Mr Moray, is it
not rather rash to say anything of that when
you know how he has been running after your
society of late ? Mr Enables has remarked
it more than once, and said he never knew
him so quickly taken by any one. As for his

house being full, you have often told me that
Highland mansions are made of india-rubber,
and can always be made to stretch as the
owner pleases. And I do think, between you
and me, papa, I should be rather an acquisition
than an encumbrance to the shooting-party
— especially if the weather were wet."

Winstanley looked at her, and could not
honestly deny it. He hesitated, and his
daughter saw he was lost. She was a lively
travelling companion, and gave little trouble.
If he chose to go on to Skye or anywhere
else, he could always send her south and remain
en jargon. He might possibly add to
his pleasure ; she could not seriously interfere
with his comfort ; and that being the case, he
was glad to gratify her. Prudence suggested
no particular objections, looking at the matter
from the match-making point of view, which
the veteran speculator always kept vaguely
before him. Jack Yenables and the poet were
both as good as engaged to their cousin, since
both seemed to have set their hearts upon
winning her. For Leslie made little concealment
of the hopes which Jack had avowed.
And neither of the other young men who made

up the party could be called detrimental, if
the worst came to the worst. Miss Instantly
kissed him, when he promised "to see what
could be done " ; but was only moderately
grateful. Not that she did not consider the
visit as good as arranged ; but, as her habit
was, she had read what was passing in his
mind, and surmised how far selfish considerations
had weighed with him. Perhaps she
overrated these and undervalued his affection ;
but if it were so, the fault was very much
his own. He went on to say, somewhat dolefully


But there are always the two difficulties
to be got over. There is the indiscretion of
seeming to force you on Moray — and his
daughter ; he has never hinted at a wish to
receive any ladies. And what is more serious,
though less embarrassing, there is the certainty
of a battle-royal with your mother."

Had Miss Winstanley spoken out frankly,
she might have said that she ought to be
hardened to those single combats with her
mother by this time. What she did say was,
Oh, I undertake to settle it all with mamma,
so you need have no sort of annoyance. As

VOL. II. D

for the Morays, I am sure nobody knows
better than you how to' turn an apparent
indiscretion into a compliment. So far as
Grace is concerned, we have always got on
so well that I believe she may rather like
having me on my own account. Besides, you
should know enough of us girls by this time
to be sure that she will be grateful to any one
who can relieve her of superfluous lovers, and
leave her to make herself quietly happy in her
own way."

Whatever may have passed between Miss
Winstanley and her mother, apparently she
had not overestimated her influence. And
Moray's hospitable nature would have left him
powerless to refuse her visit, even had he not
thought she would be a pleasant companion
for Grace. Father than refuse, indeed, he
would have had a booth or "bothy" knocked
up for himself at the shortest notice, where
he would have slept on a camp-bed or a
mattress of heather-shoots. Grace merely
lifted her eyebrows slightly when she heard
of the proposal. She liked Miss Winstanley
well enough, but she rather resented a liberty
she traced to the young lady. And, rightly

or wrongly, she suspected a motive in it, —
not that she was jealous — certainly not.

I have said that June in itself is the most
delightfully exhilarating of all months in the
Highlands ; but there is no denying the superior
excitement of the opening days of the
grouse-shooting. The days are still long :
the daybreak and the sunsets are glorious ;
the chances should be in favour of settled
weather ; and the great work of the week is
apparent in the minds of everybody. Of
course I do not speak of exceptional years,
when the moors have been swept by the
deadly grouse disease, leaving behind it a
solitude strewed with skeletons, or only enlivened
by the cynical crowing of some tough,
seasoned old cocks, apparently as proof to the
pestilence as they are shy of the guns. Nor
do I know that the first of the season is
specially enjoyable to gentlemen who live all
the year round in the North. They go to
work with intense earnestness, no doubt, despatching
their business with deceptive airs of
satisfaction. But after all, the sport comes
to them in the routine of regular tasks : they

LIBRARY

.■,,,wr-DoiTV np ILLINOIS

range from trout and salmon fishing through
June, deer and many sorts of miscellaneous
shooting ; and it is for a very few weeks in
the year at the outside that they have to
resign themselves to the trial of killing nothing
whatever. There may be exceptions, of
course ; but as a rule I suspect they have little
more appreciation of the romantic than the
Abyssinian savage who hunts the upper tributaries
of the Blue Nile, or the ferryman who
plies for fares beneath the Rapids of Niagara.
Now it is another thing altogether with the
men who get the key of the forests and the
moors after a long-drawn season in London.
If they be not utterly blase or broken down,
they feel like so many schoolboys let loose for
the holidays. For a time at least the spirit
rises superior to the flesh, and though it be buta
flash in the pan, they hold their own upon
the hills with the hillel. But if that bethe
case with the men, it is far more so with
the ladies, unless, indeed, they be thoroughbred
Cockneys. The life of a woman in London
is as artificial as the fashions in her dress.
As she compresses herself in tight - fitting
garments, fantastically cut to disfigure her

shape, and to balk her in all her natural
movements, so she is condemned to breathe
most objectionable air ; while she can never
stir abroad without an escort. She takes her
evening recreation in overheated dining-rooms,
heavily laden with those smells of the cookery
which are by no means disagreeable in moderation,
— or in reception-rooms which are something
between a Russian bath and a smelting-furnace.
Nor does she gain much by opening
the windows at home, beyond inhaling the
odours of gutters or gas-lamps, or of the back-smoke
that has been filtered through unwept
chimneys, and impregnated by the refuse of
the mews behind. Yet .she holds on to the
day of her release, in a stern sense of self-sacrificing
duty ; and it shows that we have
our everyday martyrs among us, who should
rank with the virgin legions of the Saint
Ursula. If she is a matron, she is bound
to see her daughters married ; if she is a
maiden, she is bent on getting married herself
; if she be neither one nor the other, buta
spinster soured by disappointments, she is
nevertheless bound, in obedience to the instincts
of her sex, to immolate herself to the

society which shrinks from her as an incubus.
But though the strong sense of duty may
carry her along, a delicious reaction will come
with the release. For a day or two, at all
events, it would be a delightful change from
West London to the dulness of any picturesque
farmhouse in the country. And when
she is transported to the grandest scenery in
the islands, and let down easily by residence
in a comfortable country-house, with pleasant
company and all desirable luxuries, then fora
few weeks the emancipated female is in
Paradise. Ennui will come later : in the
meantime she is sceptical or synoptical about
it. Meantime it is rapture to go and to come,
without ordering the carriage an hour or two
before, or summoning a servant as protector.
It is rapture to count on an appetite at dinner,
notwithstanding reckless indulgence at a five
o'clock tea, over sweet cakes and all manner
of abominations ; for nineteen - twentieths of
women are gourmandes, though unintelligent
gourmandes. It is rapture to stroll out to
mark the sunsets, when the western horizon
is glowing in golden lights, and each fleecy
cloud in its lustrous beauty reflects poetical

inspiration from the showers of sparks flying
back from the receding wheels of the sun-god's
chariot. And it is most rapturous and invigorating
of all, to breathe the freshness of the
morning through open windows ; revelling in
unwonted lightness of spirits in the sights and
sounds of the mountain solitudes. Then, for
the time at least, we are lifted out of ourselves
; the temptations of our everyday life
are left behind us ; and the thoughts of young
men and maidens in particular, will turn lightly
and easily to dreams of love.

In that particular August the Highland
weather was almost perfect. There was pretty
nearly constant sunshine, yet the temperature
was cooled by the breezes and the light-flying
showers. So that a drift of fleecy clouds from
time to time would break the monotony of
the deep azure of the heavens ; and though
the glass stood encouragingly above set fair,
each morning the hills, the lakes, and the
valleys were draped in fantastic wreaths of
vapour. The fine-weather haze made a fire
agreeable, when the peat sparkled through
the crackling oak-logs, and then it extinguished
itself naturally in the sun-rays that beat

hotly after breakfast on the gravel before the
house. The party was in good humour with
itself and all the world ; and the guests must
have been the most fastidious of mortals had
they not felt thoroughly contented. Allowances
made for somewhat cramped accommodation,
they were surrounded with every conceivable
luxury. Even Calverley Baker, a
born sybarite, whose brand-new palatial villa
near Cardiff was renowned far and near as a
marvel of sumptuous fitting up, gave unqualified
praise to the comforts of his old-fashioned
bedroom, where lounging-chairs covered with
light-coloured cretonnes contrasted pleasantly
with the low ceiling and the quaintly antiquated
cupboards. It was admitted on all
hands that the ingenious chef surpassed himself,
though sorely tried by punctuality at
meals. And after dinner, with the windows
thrown open to the night, the conversation
circulated as briskly as the Chateau Lafitte,
to be followed by music and flirtations when
the gentlemen joined the ladies, with a rubber
at whist for those who liked it. Then in that
easy life the austerity of the convene nee*
might be safely disregarded. There were

strolls in the moonlight along the shores of
the loch, when Enables or Leslie — even Mr
Baker or the M'Claverty — had opportunities,
if they chose, of becoming sentimental. In
fact, ladies and gentlemen were on so pleasant
a footing, that the latter at least were
loath to separate ; and, excerpt upon the great
day of the Twelfth, sport became rather a
recreation than a business. Even Battersby,
who, being elderly, was supposed to be unimpressionable,
was so far subjugated that he
submitted with a good grace to be overruled,
when he had murmured some protests against
this heterodoxy. In fact, when he had tried
to make a feeble stand, Jack Enables had
been down upon him with that pleasant manner
which deprecated resistance and gave no
offence.

Why make a toil of a pleasure, my dear
General ? Your intelligence may be clouded a
little by the prejudices of habit ; but to a man
of your gallantry, it must surely seem absurd
to refuse the goods the gods provide you.
You can shoot every year with Jack, Tom, or
Harry — hardened bachelors like myself, who
simply make a business of butchery. But it is

not more than once or so in a lifetime that you
have the chance of strewing the game-panniers
with summer flowers, and wreathing the quarrels
in roses. If we do ruffle Donald's
shaggy eyebrows by altering the beats — if
we do waste an extra half - hour . or , so after
luncheon — what does it matter? My motto
when out holiday-making is, Vive la bagatelle !
and I vote for the ladies joining us again tomorrow."


They were discussing their plans in the
smoking-room, where neither of the fathers
chanced to be present, so they might chat all
the more freely. After Jack's persuasive
apostrophe, the General looked around him
and over his shoulder, but could see no supports
coming up. On the contrary, both the
M'Claverty and Mr Baker approved Jack's
arguments by eloquent silence ; while Leslie,
as we know, had no personal interest in the
subject, since he only took to the hill as an
amateur and an onlooker. It was not to be
expected that he should advocate misogyny
under the circumstances. So the General,
having delivered his conscience, shrugged his
shoulders, and laughed.

"If I were Glenconan now, or Winstanley
either, for that matter, I should distrust you
hardened bachelors, Mr Enables. However,
I suppose there is no help for it ; there should
be safety for the young ladies in company,
and you can't do much harm on the open hill.
Thank heaven, I never had a daughter ! " he
added, in a tone of such emphatic gratitude
that, while the rest of the smoking-party
burst out laughing, it brought something like
a blush to Mr Yenables's cheek. Seeing that
the stray shaft seemed to have gone home,
and thinking himself that Mr Yenables's
matrimonial schemes could be no affair of his,
the General changed the subject.

By the way, where are our worthy host
and Winstanley ? I suppose they are talking
China, as usual, over their cheroots. Well,
birds of a feather will flock together ; but it
appears to me they are getting abominably
unsociable of an evening — a charge which no
one can bring against any of you young gentlemen.
I thought I should never have got you
away from the piano to-night."

Winstanley and Moray were pacing the
gravel together out of doors. The former,

though he pulled his cloak closer about him, was
setting the night air and chances of rheumatism
at defiance ; while the latter, in evening
dress, with unbuttoned waistcoat, drew in the
health of his native hills voluptuously, withall
the force of his powerful lungs. He looked
the picture of robust health and perfect human
contentment. Winstanley, glancing at him,
thought as much, and envied him. He said
so too, with a laugh, in which there was
some slight touch of bitterness ; and then
proceeded, half-musing aloud, to draw a contrast
between himself and his companion, considerably
to his own disadvantage. Moray
did not take up the challenge, as the other had
perhaps meant he should. At that moment
he felt at perfect peace with himself, with his
conscience, and with all the world. If life
after middle age is not very much a question
of livers and blue pills, at all events we view
it very differently under different circumstances.
In the exhilaration of the change
from Eaton Place to the Glen ; with the
bracing that had come to him from hard
walking and good shooting ; in the happiness
of seeing; his daughter blooming and bright,

and his guests in the best of spirits about
him, — Moray had cast his worries to the
winds, and reconciled himself to his prosperity.
Even the presence of Leslie, with the recollections
it evoked, had ceased for some days
past to bring any reproach to him. So he
answered Winstanley lightly enough.

"I know no one. who need less envy me
than you ; yet, on my word, I have good
cause to be grateful. In fact, to-night I feel
almost heathenish, as if I should either offer
a propitiatory sacrifice to the fates ; or pray,
like the tyrant of Samos, for some small piece
of misfortune to trouble my prosperity."

Please don't talk like that, my good fellow,"
said the other. " Though I am neither
romantic nor yet superstitious, you positively
make me shudder. Misfortunes come soon
enough and without praying for, you may
take your oath of that ; and in the meantime,
with your health and your money, and all the
rest, you may be content to take the good the
gods provide you. But apropos to praying
for breaks in prosperity, it strikes me that the
clouds are banking up for a storm. And
another tiling strikes me, and that is, a chill

in the air coming down the valley. At any
rate, I accept it as a warning that it is high
time to go indoors."

There are changes in the mountain weather
that come up mysteriously as they pass
quickly, — changes that go by almost unnoted
by the weather-glass. Moray drew his curtains
to look out before going to bed, and
could hardly have known the summer night
for the same that had been beaming; on him
barely an hour before from its myriads of
twinkling stars. The moon was still visible
in her pale radiance, but the upper edge of
the disc was cut straight across and blotted
out by the black line of a swiftly descending
cloud-belt. Three-fourths of the sleeping loch
was still shimmering in a sheet of silver, that
seemed slowly to rise and fall in the moonlight,
with the peaceful respiration of a tranquil
sleeper. Yet even as he looked, he was
reminded of the Eastern myth, as he saw the
silver swiftly swallowed up by the storm-demon
of the darkness. One moment, each
gnarled and stunted tree or each patch of
heather that clung to the steep escarpments
of the opposite mountain walls, stood out as

if in the glare of some great electric light,
slightly toned clown and mellowed by the distance.
The next, the cliffs themselves had
faded into spectral shadows, which vanished
in their turn into outer darkness with the
total eclipse of the moon behind the clouds.
It was a depressing sight, and he shuddered involuntarily
as the breath of the night air came
in colder puffs. He was ashamed of what he
characterised as his morbid susceptibilities : he
blew out the candles and stepped into bed.
But sleep refused to come at his call : he
tossed and turned; he threw off the clothes; he
went off into feverish dreams, and woke from
them more feverish and restless. And he gladly
welcomed the first grey glimmerings of the
dawn, as the short summer night gave place
to the life of morning. When he rose and
looked out again, the storm had passed over ;
it must have discharged itself far away to the
south, as he could hear by the muttering of
distant thunder-peals. At Glenconan, though
the ground seemed to smoke with the lifting
mists of the dawn, the sky and atmosphere
were clear as before. Moray's romance seldom
prompted him to eccentricities. But for

once in his life he felt disposed to a very early
promenade, and he excused himself by the
prospect of a plunge in the loch.

"A walk will do me all the good in the
world," he said to himself. " It will shake off
those absurd phantasmagoria that have beset
me. Everybody in the house is asleep ; nobody
need be a bit the wiser." So, like a
burglar devising his stealthy arrangements
from the inside, he softly slid up the casement
to its greatest width, passed his bulky
person with some difficulty through the opening,
and stepped gently on to the roof of the
verandah that ran under the window. " If I
have to enter again by escalade," he thought,
I can always find a ladder." And from the
gently sloping roof of the verandah, he lowered
himself down upon the grass with unwonted
agility.

The prescription of air and exercise worked
wonderfully. He felt decidedly better with
the expansion of his lungs, as he sculled a
boat across the loch to the isle of the heronry.
He was almost himself again, as he set foot on
the strip of silvery shingle, and dragged up
his boat half high and dry. As yet there was

nothing like actual sunshine, though he could
see the first faint reflections of the clay already
glimmering behind the distant peaks to the
eastward. The aspect of everything about
him was vague and mysterious. The rising
fogs hanging about the birchen and alder
copses took all manner of fantastic forms. A
dozen times he could have imagined that the
phantom of the martyred saint was dogging
his steps or eluding his advance, The black
tops of the Scotch firs, standing out like an
archipelago of dark islands from the sea of
billowy vapours, seemed appropriate places of
habitation for the spectral-like herons, who
occasionally flitted from amongst the boughs,
and silently melted out of sight. But on the
other hand, all such unwholesome fancies were
cheerily dissipated by the merry concert of the
birds who are silent through an August day.
And as his spirits rose to the notes of thrush
and blackbird, he stripped his clothes above a
convenient block of projecting rock, and took
a header into the deep cold water. The shock
completed what the birds had commenced.
Moray was a magnificent swimmer. The art a
Highland education had begun, had been prac-

VOL. II. E

tisecl in the tepid Eastern seas, where yon live
in the water when you can, to escape from the
furnaces of the land. Swimming low at first,
as he got braced by the cool waves and exhilarated
by the sense of rapid motion, he
gradually raised head and shoulders at each
stroke, cleaving the water in showers of spray,
and leaving the long trail of the bubbles breaking
behind him. Herons floated up from their
fishing stations in the shallows ; teals and
ducks rose quacking from their feeding-grounds
in the sedges ; and no doubt there was unwonted
commotion among the finny inhabitants
of the usually peaceful pools. But if
Moray scared the animal creation, his own
calm was restored ; and when he had rubbed
himself down and slipped back into his garments,
like Martin Chuzzlewit after gulping the
sherry-cobbler, he was another man in every
essential particular. Rowing homewards, and
regaining the house in a glow, he could laugh
at all his superstitious forebodings ; and when
he came down to the breakfast-table after an
hour or two in the sheets, his daughter remarked
on his rosy appearance, and all went
merry as marriage-bells till the luncheon-hour.

We have had a delightful morning — Julia
and I," she exclaimed, as the first of the 
arrived at the well, at which the
young ladies were awaiting the guns.

So have we," her father rejoined, speaking
confidently for his companions, " although possibly
the sport might have been better. But
it is a perfect day for shooting ; and, considering
the breakfast I made, I never in my life
felt more ready for lunch. I vote we give the
other loitering gentlemen no law ; so you had
better let us see what you have got for us."

As he spoke, the stalking-hats of the other
gentlemen were seen rising above the sky-line
of the nearest hill ; and very soon they all lay
reclining in the fashion of the Greeks and
Romans around an exceedingly tempting repast.
It would have made a pretty picture
for a Scottish Watteau ; and we may safely
say that at none of the meetings in the ' De-cameron
' did the minutes ever go by more
gaily. All the more so that there was no
story-telling, and that the chatter to the symphony
of knives and forks was lively rather
than witty. Little did, Moray or his daughter
think that it was but the treacherous lull before

a terrible storm — that they were already
in the shadow of a lasting sorrow, and that the
messenger of evil was approaching on the legs
of a Highland laddie.

Now, what may Master Colin want ? "
queried Jack Enables, as he marked a sturdy
Highland boy jump the little burn below, and
come bounding up the bank in their direction.


I'm sure I don't know," said Moray, carelessly.
" Possibly Walker may have sent him
after us with something he forgot to pack in
the hampers."

No bad news, I hope," exclaimed Grace,
with something like a presentiment.

Bad news ! nonsense," returned Moray, the
more confidently that his daughter's remark
recalled his forebodings of the nistfit. " He
has brought a handful of newspapers, I see.
Perhaps it was a thoughtful attention of
Walker's, as he knew we were lunching near
the house. All the same, he ought to have
remembered that I hate being bothered with
politics on the hill."

Well, in another minute or so we shall
know all about it," said Jack. " Meantime,

Grace, I will trouble you for the half of that

grouse."

It was a telegram just come for Mr Enables,"
said the boy, " and Mr Walker had
thought that as I was to carry that whatever,
I had better bring the papers at the same
time."

Jack tore open the telegram. " I only trust
it is not an order of recall from his lordship."
But as he read, his face lightened up. He
read it again to make sure of the contents,
and then threw it across to Winstanley. That
gentleman perused the despatch in turn, and
glanced at his young protege significantly.

It need be no secret between us, need it ?
Suppose you give me the genuine pleasure of
contributing to the gaiety of the company."

By all means," rejoined Jack, brimming
over with good humour ; "I presume the contents
must be all right, and I can have no
reason to make a mystery of them."

"By all means, then, papa," echoed Miss
Winstanley, merrily. " Here are Grace and
myself on the tenter-hooks of expectation, and
Mr Enables permits you to gratify our laudable
curiosity."

Mr Winstanley smiled, with a complacent
satisfaction that attributed some of the credit
of the coming disclosure to himself. Then
looking round and seeing he had the ears of
the party, he went on with a certain formality
of manner, which showed the importance he
attached to the communication.

It is only another agreeable surprise in
the marvellously successful career of our
friend. Some months ago, Jack there consulted
me as to venturing a trifle in an
American mine. In the course of his peregrinations
in the metropolis, he had picked
up an acquaintance in the smoking-room of
the Lanoliam Hotel. What was his name,
Jack? No wonder I forget it."

Rufus P. J. George Washington Hicks!"

Well, Rufus P. J. George Washington
Hicks had had strange experiences between
the Sierra Nevada and the Golden Gates. He
had run a liquor-bar ; he had traded in buff
; he had sunk his savings in build-ingots,
and seen them swallowed by a fire,
when he had backed his luck by refusing to
insure. He had feasted on porter-steaks, and
canvas-backs, and champagne : he had been

grateful for crusts picked up in the gutter.
Finally, he had come rather to the front
again, when he tried his hand at cradle-washing
and quartz-mining. He got a concession
for a silver claim somewhere in Idaho ; and
the lodes were so promising, though ground
had barely been broken, that before going
further he took a trip to the old country,
determined on having a good time of it.
Whether he had a good time or not, I don't
know ; but it would appear that his transatlantic
trip has been a godsend for Enables.
He cottoned to our friend, or froze to him, ashe
repeatedly assured him ; and at last, in a
moment of expansion after midnight, made
him a serious offer. For a trifle that was nota
spot on the real value, as he said, Jack
might speculate in a quarter of his chances.
What were the terms, Jack, I really forget ? "
"Eight thousand dollars down," rejoined
Jack, promptly. He had got tired of Winstanley's
prolixity, for he saw that Baker was
yawning, while the M'Claverty had sunk back
in the heather in a state of semi-somnolence.
Eight thousand dollars down, and it was alla
question of the mountain-man's honesty.

The mine might be solid metal or ' wild cat,'
and the American only too well aware of its
worthlessness. So one day I drove him down
to dinner at Greenwich. Mr Winstanley
kindly consented to meet him. He pronounced,
on the whole, in favour of Hicks's
honesty, and encouraged me to stake my
dollars on the chance."

And to-day," chimed in Winstanley, triumphantly,
" we have a telegram, which tells
us that Hicks is waiting to sell half the interest
in the Tombstone Lode to a professional
promoter for half a. million of dollars paid on
the nail ; the balance for the remaining half
to be represented by shares in a company."

I can't quite follow what your American
friend would call the calculations," exclaimed
Grace, with cousinly excitement. " But from
what I can gather, this mine alone has made
Jack a man of considerable property."

Exactly so, Miss Moray," Winstanley replied.
" Roughly speaking, the quarter of
half a million of dollars is £25,000 sterling ;
and his reserved interest in shares, if the
promoters have kept their eyes open, may
represent unlimited possibilities of wealth.

Can Hicks carry out the bargain without your
consent, Jack ? "

Really, I hardly know how that is. You
see I never dreamed of his doing any business
of the kind till he got back again to his own
side of the Atlantic. Those promoters he
speaks of must have thought it worth while
to follow him to England on purpose to
trade."

In any case, if you take my advice again,
you will lose not a moment in answering his
despatch. There are always slips between the
cup and the lip, and it should be the object
of every wise man to minimise them. Jump
on one of these shooting-ponies, if Glenconan
will give you leave, and make tracks straightaway
across the moors for the post-office."

Jack jumped at the suggestion, and on to
the pack-saddle, which had been adjusted to
sling a pair of panniers. He rode off in a
running fire of congratulations, which rang
pleasantly in the ears of the fortunate youth.
Before he swung himself on to the pony he
had sought Grace's eye. It may have been
that at that moment he saw everything in
rosy colours, but he certainly did fancy that

what lie read there meant more than mere
cousinly sympathy. Then he looked at Julia
Winstanley, who may have resented being
placed second in order of precedence. For
she took such unnatural pains to avoid meeting
his glance, that he might have had every
reason to feel pleasantly flattered had he been
unconscientious enough to keep a couple of
strings to his bow. As it was. to tell the
honest truth, he gave little thought; except
incidentally, to either of the young women.
His mind was far too full, in the meantime, of
the piece of marvellous luck that had befallen
him.

"Already'' so ran his thoughts, "with that
money paid down, I should have very much
more than an easy income. "Without being
anyways imprudent, I might try another shortcut
uphill, and enter for the parliamentary
stakes tomorrow. Nor is there any possible
reason why I should not marry money in the
person of Miss Grace. But prudence say-that
it is better to wait a twelvemonth, and
see what comes of the paid-up shares. It maybe
another case of a Great Comstock Lode,
and I may be rolling up my millions like a

Mr Mackay — which reminds me that I ought
to make assurance sure, and send the answer
so that it may reach the City during business
hours."

And never did the steady-goinsr animal
he bestrode have such a bickering before or
since. Jack rode without stirrups, and carried
nothing in the shape of stick or spur. But
he pressed his heels against Donald's shaggy
flanks ; he tugged provocative at Donald's
iron jaws ; he cheered the animal on with
whoop and halloo ; and unconsciously, as he
worked up a shambling gallop over a downhill
stretch of turf, he would break into a
snatch of song, to be cut short by a spasm of
anxiety. When they pulled up before the
straw-thatched post-office, Donald was dripping
with sweat ; while his rider was hardly
in better case, what with his state of mental
excitement, and what with his bodily exertion
in the heat. Already Jack was labouring
beneath the burden of his riches, being anxious
as to the timely despatch of the telegram ;
and might have realised the wisdom of the
petition in the Litany, which prays for deliverance
in all time of our wealth.

Chapter XIX.

AND BAD.

The intelligent reader must have remarked —
sensational leaders in the newspapers are always
drawing attention to the fact — that sensations
seldom come singly. A railway smash
seems to transmit similar shocks through
sundry systems in the kingdoms ; one portentous
mining disaster is invariably followed by
others ; and wars are pregnant with wars, as
pestilences breed similar calamities. So it is
in private life, where one surprise is pretty
sure to succeed to another — though the surprises
may be of opposite colours and characters,
alternating like the streaks of fat and lean
in a prime flitch of bacon. Moray had welcomed
the news of his nephew's good fortune
with double pleasure, that they seemed to
upset all his ominous forebodings. The signs

of the preceding night had been significant ;
but, through disorder of the digestion or some
similar cause, he had been persuaded to read
them all wrong. They had heralded a sufficiently
exciting event by way of seasoning to
a Highland shooting luncheon ; but personally
it could not affect him in any way, unless indirectly
and pleasantly through the future of
his daughter. Matrimonially, Master Jack's
prospects were looking up, and consequently
Leslie's were proportionately depressed. Accordingly
he glanced across to Leslie, to see
what the poet was thinking of the situation.
Though he knew well enough his elder
nephew's generosity of disposition, he was
prepared to see him grave and pre-occupied,
but the reality went far beyond his anticipations.
Leslie's brow was knitted in gloomy
thought, as his eye was riveted on the newspaper
he held in his hand. " He takes it more
deeply to heart than I had fancied," Moray
thought to himself, " and very likely is vexing
himself quite unnecessarily. I greatly doubt
whether Grace has ever cared for Jack ; and
most assuredly, were she a pauper, she is not
the girl to be influenced by his sudden acquisition

of wealth. If she really liked him, it would
be a different thing, for now he might justifiably
make regular proposals. Nous verrons."

However, in his delicacy and consideration,
he thought it better to suggest a move.
Time's up, gentlemen," he exclaimed, setting
the example and getting up himself ; " you
must tear yourselves away from your heather
couches and tobacco."

General Battersby and Calverley Baker
were his own companions. Leslie, who did
not carry a gun, was in the habit of attaching
himself indifferently to either party. On this
occasion he elected to go with his uncle,
following at his heels like his shadow, though
like a ghost he had nothing to say, and seemed
to wait to be spoken to. His silence struck
Moray all the more, that it appeared almost
incumbent on him to say something as to
Enables's piece of good fortune. In the growing
sense of embarrassment, Moray went off
his shooting. And when, after missing two
or three fair chances in succession, he muffed
a singularly easy right and left, Donald Eoss
could not refrain from a guttural ejaculation.
"Did any mortal ever see the like of that!

If I had not filled Glenconan's cartridges myself,
I would say that one of the gillies had
forgotten to put in the lead ! "

The laird, listening, caught a " sough " of
the sound, and waxed wrathful ; yet he had
the justice to vent his wrath upon Leslie, and
not on the innocent keeper.

Confound you, Ralph ! I believe you are
casting the evil eye on my gun-barrels. The
powder in the morning was straight enough;
and now if an ostrich were to get on the win,
I believe I should shoot below him. If you
would only say something and break the spell."

As he spoke, Ralph was almost at his elbow,
and he answered the invocation with impressive
solemnity. " I have been waiting to

speak to you, sir, " and then he hesitated.

Heaven knows I would gladly forbear, even
now, were it possible."

Moray shrugged his shoulders involuntarily,
as he thought to himself, " How terribly in
earnest he takes it, poor fellow ! and here I
am let in for a bad quarter of an hour, and
probably the rest of the day's shooting will
be spoilt."

Then immediately, kind-heartedness got the

better of selfishness, and he answered in a tone
that was sympathetic and soothing —

I might scold you, my good fellow, for
hesitating with me. I might surely say, if
you will only remember the past, that you are
bound to give me confidence for confidence.
More especially if what you are brooding over
in any way concerns me. But since you have
said so much, you must continue. You know
nothing pleases me so much as straightforwardness.
And," he added, smilingly, " I
don't mind if I give you a lead. Am I right
in thinking that Grace has something to do
with it?"

Quite right, sir, and I am grieved to say
it ; but I fear not at all in the way you
imagine."

At the notion of being trifled with over any
trouble threatening Grace, her father's bristles
got up at once ; and it was as the quick-tempered
fiery Celt that he turned sharply on
his nephew —

"If I love frankness, I detest riddles, Master
Ralph. If you have anything unpleasant
to tell, will you have the goodness to tell it
quickly ? "

Bad news is always bad to break," said
Ralph, slowly. " But neither of us are men
to knock under to misfortune. Yet when you
know all, you will admit that I might well
shrink from the task. Nay, don't get impatient.
The Southern Counties Bank is in
extreme difficulties ; already it is more than
probable that it has closed its doors."

Good heavens ! you don't say so. How
many shares has your mother got in it ? —
twenty or thereabouts, is it not ? "

Twenty. Yes."

With unlimited liability. What a terrible
misfortune ! I never could have foreseen anything
like this, though you know that as one
of her trustees I was strongly in favour of
selling ; and if old George Leslie had not been
another, sold most certainly the shares would
have been, But he was supine and ailing
and slow to do anything, and I own I never
looked for anything worse than fluctuations."

"You acted for the best, and need not
reproach yourself, sir. But read that," and
Leslie pulled the ' Scotsman' out of his pocket,
and handed it over to his uncle. " It seems
there were ugly rumours afloat, but I have

VOL. II. F

hardly looked at the papers for the last day or
two. Not that we could have done anything
in time. My uncle George is at Kissing,
and in no condition to transact business."

Moray hardly listened. He was devouring
the ' Scotsman's ' money article. The rumours
of the previous day or two, following just on
the collapse of one or two great firms of ironmasters
and shipbuilders, some of whose partners
were either on the Board of Direction or
closely connected with it, had been quickly
followed by a panic and a run. Other houses
of equal importance were said to be compromised
or involved. Should they come down
in turn, as was hourly expected, the bank
must fail to face its liabilities. It was insinuated
that for four - and - twenty hours the
shares had been artificially bolstered by money
found by the Board. The bolstering, if it
were a fact, had failed of its purpose ; now in
the reaction, the relapse in the shares had
been tremendous ; and when the writer penned
the article they were practically unsaleable.
In another corner of the paper, a paragraph
announced, on good authority, that the other
Scottish banks, after protracted deliberations,

had been unable to see their way to tiding the
Southern " through its difficulties.

Which, if it be true — and true it probably
is — is necessarily the bank's death-warrant,"
sighed Leslie.

Moray nodded a gloomy assent. " But
after all," he said, in another moment,
matters might have been very much worse.
Your mother will always have her jointure
from Eoodholm — £400, is it not? I don't
imagine the creditors can touch that; nor is she
in any way bound to sacrifice it. She loses
her Southern Counties shares — say, round
numbers, £5000. The rest of her trust funds
must be given up — say, again in round numbers,
as much more. Well, to say nothing of
being her brother and rich, as a negligent
trustee, I am really responsible. When she
has got a full discharge, I start her fair again ;
I pay her over the £10,000, and never miss it.
My dear boy, after all, we are making a mountain
of a molehill ; consider that settled, and
let me go back to my shooting, unless you
mean to make Donald your enemy for life."

But Leslie laid a hand gently on his shoulder.
" God knows, my dearest uncle, how

grieved I am ; but I fear you fail to realise
the situation. If the leading article in the
Scotsman ' be reliable, the liabilities of this
most unlucky concern will be enormous."

Very probably, my dear fellow, and very
sorry I am for the shareholders ; but how
need that affect your mother ? She gives up
her property : I make it good to her ; and sofar
as she is concerned, the whole will pass
like an ugly dream, and the worst she can
suffer will be a few days' anxiety."

Would to God that were the worst, sir !
But you — you are a trustee."

Well, and what then ? "

Why, surely you must know, or you
ought to have been informed, that in such a
case as this the personal property of the trustees
is held liable to the uttermost farthing.
My uncle George has nothing, or next to
nothing, and I dread to think what the calls
may be."

Moray let fall the butt of his gun as if he
were grounding arms, and his jaw dropped at
the same time. He passed his hot hand across
his brow, from which the cold beads of perspiration
were oozing already. But to do him

bare justice, he was only thinking of Grace —
not of himself, or even of G-lenconan.

Ralph had nothing to say at the moment —
no comfort to give. But he felt pangs of shame
and bitter self-reproach as he remembered that
his uncle would willingly have got rid of these
shares, and would have done so had it not
been for his mother s fatal obstinacy — for Mrs
Leslie liked good interest as well as most
people. "Had I given my thoughts to practical
business like Jack Enables — had I not
gone dreaming away existence like a moonstruck
idiot — nothing of this need ever have
happened. I ought to have used my influence
with my mother, and seen that her trustees
were made safe."

Almost unconsciously he moaned out the
reflection aloud ; and Moray heard it, and it
awoke him from his stupor.

Not a bit of it, Ralph ; I say to you what
you said to me a few moments ago, that you
have no cause to reproach yourself. The business
was mine, and mine alone, for we know
that your uncle George was but a dummy.
Any interference of yours would have been
unwarrantable, and of course we should have

resented it. No, no ; happen what will, always
remember you have nothing to blame yourself
for."

It is generous of you to say so, sir ; and
to forget your own troubles in trying to relieve
mine. But your generosity cannot alter
the state of the case, nor affect any reparation
it is in my power to make."

The first shock over, with its terrible suddenness,
Moray was not a man to be prostrated.
Though he might quiver like the oak to
the first burst of the hurricane, he was not a
man either to bend or break. Though wind
and tide had for the most part been in his
favour, he had nevertheless battled with the
world as a mere lad, and had always quietly
prided himself on indomitable courage and the
prompt resolutions that were not to be shaken.
Nor did his natural strength of mind or the
habits of a lifetime fail him in this extremity.
It was characteristic that as he walked mechanically
onwards, while his mind was full of Grace
and her fortunes, already he was vaguely devising
means of parrying or retrieving the
calamity that threatened them. " Could I
only see her safe, could I only, were it possible,

keep Glenconan for her, even at the cost
of heavy mortgages, I would think little myself
of going back to the East, and betaking
myself to the enterprises I used to love so
well. I am strong as ever I was, though a
little stiff er." And he stretched the iron
muscles of his arms, and expanded the breadth
of his burly chest. " If Grace were but happily
married, I might go with an easy mind,
though it would be hard to turn my back on
her again." And as he thought of Grace being
married, he glanced naturally at Leslie, who
was stalking by his side in sad abstraction.
Leslie, he knew, would welcome such a match ;
but he was not quite so sure of his favourite,
Jack Yenables.

Then came a distraction which did him good.
As the laird, usually so keen, seemed to have
cast all thought of the shooting behind him,
Donald Koss became ireful, and then anxious.
The dogs ranged unobserved, and "drew"
through the heather unnoticed. Don had
dropped to a steady point : Flora, the most
graceful of Gordon setters, had backed him
in an attitude of statuesque sublimity : the
laird had walked past unheeding : the birds

had skimmed away unharmed. Donald's mind
was made up that he must be in the presence
of some strange misfortune, and to relieve his
mind, he swore at Don ; then stooped and
patted him kindly on the head. Whereupon
that sagacious animal looked as puzzled as the
old keeper. Thenceforward Donald set himself
to watch his master, as keenly as one of
his terriers would have watched an otter's hole.
From his place behind he could see little of
Glenconan's face, but he studied his gestures,
and the set of his shoulders. The signs were
plain as print to him, and his worst suspicions
were confirmed. The faithful old fellow would
have given a year's wages to know the best or
the worst of it at once. But his native refinement
reminded him that attention, however
well meant, could hardly fail to be offensive,
so he fell back several paces further in the
rear, by that manoeuvre keeping the gillie behind
him. Secure from observation, as he
thought, his rugged features showed the intensity
of his sympathy ; and, like Leslie, he
went walking in silent meditation, lifting his
eyes occasionally from the ground to take
another survey of his master.

On one of these occasions Moray chanced
to turn round. He was taking a fond look
down the strath that might soon be lost to
him for ever, and the eyes of the master and
the follower met. Donald's weather-beaten
face coloured up like a girl's, and he felt painfully
guilty. As to Moray, he understood it
all ; and the sympathy of his faithful old
servant sent a warm glow to his heart. He
had friends still — here was one of the stanch -
est of them — with health and strength.
Surely he was not so much to be pitied after
all : surely he might make a manful fight for
his daughter. He made Donald a sign, who
came to his side in a moment. In gratitude,
and something like actual love, he could have
almost embraced the old keeper in foreign
fashion : he would certainly have pressed his
honest hand, had it not been for the watchful
eyes of the gillie.

It's like that you may have had some ill
news, Glenconan ; it would take a deal to
make you give over the shooting in the very
best of the day."

You're right, Donald ; I have had bad
news, and in due time you shall know all

about it. But it's nothing, as I hope, that
may not be got over ; and in the meantime,
remember, not a word to Miss Grace."

'Deed, Glenconan, and you may trust me
there. I would rather be crushed to death
under the stones, like poor Angus, than bring
one cloud across the sunshine of her bonnie
face."

I am quite sure of it ; and now I must
try to shoot a bit, or Hector, behind there, will
be having queer fancies. It may be the last
time," he added, involuntarily ; and Donald
groaned aloud as he heard, the sad ejaculation.

The Lord preserve me, Glenconan ! don't
say it's as bad as that ; " and he threw so
much of heartfelt melancholy into his droning
pronunciation of the " bad," that, in other
circumstances, it would have made his master
smile. Now he merely shook his head in sad
assent to what sounded like the dying wail
of a funeral dirge on the bagpipes over the
departing glories of the house of Moray.

Bad as it may be, we must make the best
of it, Donald ; and happen what may, I shall
never forget your kindness."

He felt strangely softened in his present

mood. He had always been a good and a
liberal master, but now he thought he had
never done half enough for dependants who
had been born and brought up under the
shadow of his ancient roof tree. How he
mourned internally over the wasted opportunities
that might be gone from him nevermore
to return.

These thoughts at least found no response
in Donald's breast. He remembered, as indeed
he might, the bright high-spirited boy
he had taught to shoot and throw a fly ; who
had never forgotten him, even when exiled
among outlandish savages ; who had sent him
home, by way of appropriate souvenirs, the
heads and skins of the strange and outlandish
beasts which garnished the walls of his little
cottage, and were the wonder of the neighbours
for forty miles round. A proud man
Donald had been when keepers and gillies
made pilgrimages to see them, gaping in astonishment
as they heard him descant on the
wonderful exploits of this modern Nimrod.
A far prouder man he had been, when the
Nimrod would beat up his quarters, when he
came back to Glenconan from the East on his

periodical visits. Donald had adored the man
who had been his ideal of a gentleman and a
hero ; though latterly he had set up a rival
idol in the person of the laird's beautiful
daughter. After all, though, the two were a
duality of deity, distinct, no doubt, yet indivisible
in his affections. They had always
seemed to be removed far beyond the reach of
any earthly calamities save age and death,
which must come to everybody. Had any
gay trifler played false with Miss Grace — had
it been " the Duke " himself, or a son of the
minister — Donald, though a pious man, and a
regular church-goer, inasmuch as a mountain-walk
of nine miles might permit, would have
shot him with as little remorse as a hooded
crow. Now, in so far as he knew, this unknown
evil had been wrought by no enemy in
particular. Notwithstanding, and without any
spur of personal animosity, he was just as
ready to lay down his life for his master or
Miss Grace. And as the greater included the
less, he longed to place his little property at
their disposal ; for Donald, who had a fair
knowledge of life, never doubted that money
was at the bottom of the mischief. I said

that the greater included the less ; yet possibly
his money was more to him than his life. A
hardy hillman, when his foot was on his native
crags, he would have thought nothing of risking
a slip into a bottomless abyss, or a shot
from the gun of some daring night-poacher.
That was always in the way of his business.
But he was a prudent Scot as he was a daring
mountaineer, and few men could more heartily
appreciate the possession of riches superior
to his station. Come what might, — age, illness,
or crippled limbs, — he might live on his
hardly saved means, nor be burden even to
Glenconan. The thought had cheered his
heart through many a toilsome walk, and many
a lonely night-watch. So when he eagerly
offered to give up all to the laird, casting the
care even of an aged mother upon Providence,
I need hardly say more for his self-sacrifice
and devotion. And there was no mistaking
that he made the offer as if he ardently desired
it should be accepted. With a prompt
decision worthy of his master, he assumed an
air of insinuating diplomacy, sidling up to his
ear and his elbow, so that even Mr Leslie
should not hear a word.

94 fortune's wheel.

Would you be willing now to do me a
great kindness, Glenconan ? and you must
allow, sir, it is not often that I have asked
one.

You may be very sure I will, Donald, if it
be in my power," answered his master, though
more than suspecting what was coming, for
the moment was indifferently chosen for asking
ordinary favours.

Well, Glenconan, it is just this. You and
your father before you have done everything
for me and mine ; and if I have the snug bit
shearing down the glen, and the bit money in
the bank at Dingwall, it all comes of the kindness
of the family. And if it was money you
were needing — or Miss Grace either," — here
he sank his voice to a barely audible whisper,
" you will take what I have, whatever — will
you not, now ? " And to Donald the sum in
the Dingwall bank seemed no inconsiderable
fortune.

The laird almost laughed, though he was
much more inclined to weep. He was as
much of a gentleman as Donald, and nothing
would have induced him to refuse outright.
At the same time he promised and vowed to

himself, that if ever the sunbeams should
shine again on his side of the brae, Donald
and the old mother should bask in their
warmth. Now, neither the presence of the
gillie nor the apprehension of his secret getting
wind, prevented him from grasping Donald's
horny palm in his own.

We can talk about all that later, Donald,
if you please. I must wait for the present till
I see my way a bit. But be sure that there
is not one of all my friends to whom I would
apply for assistance sooner ; meanwhile, and
for the last time, not a word of all this to my
daughter."

Donald nodded intelligence ; and withdrew
in a state of intense glorification, which for
the moment made him almost forgetful of his
master's troubles. Glenconan had squeezed
his hand, and turned towards him in adversity.
Glenconan had as good as promised to
take his money if he needed it. Glenconan,
in short, had treated him more than ever asa
friend ; and Donald would have liked, as
the assassin in the Border ballad, to be " hackit
in pieces sma'," by way of showing his gratitude.
/ ^



And the laird shot on for two or three
hours like a man, though perhaps with something
less than his usual skill as a marksman.
If he had said little, he thought the more.
But he did say to Leslie before they returned
to the house — " It was not for nothing I had
my forebodings of coming calamities last night,
and I could almost believe they were sent meas
a merciful warning."

CHAPTER XX.

MORAY GOES THROUGH THE MILL.

To Leslie, who alone was the sharer in his
secrets, Moray's behaviour that evening at the
dinner table, and in the dining-room afterwards,
was nothing less than heroic. There
was no bravado. He might have been somewhat
paler than was his wont ; in place of
turning to the decanters for a fillip, he drank
far less than usual. But he did the honours
with the ease of a hospitable Highlander ; and
the shrewdest of his several sharp - sighted
guests never suspected anything of his inward
anguish. The long-protracted dinner was all
the more trying that the unconscious Jack
Enables, in the flush of his last piece of good
fortune, was in the highest possible spirits,
and made no attempt to suppress them. Why
should he ? They were all friends, and, as
VOL. II. g

usual, nobody seemed to grudge him his luck.
If any one appeared indifferent to it or jealous
of it, it was Leslie ; and for him Mr Enables
could make allowances. If Leslie's gloomy
silence affected him in any way, it was chiefly
because it reminded him of his deep obligation.
" Against any one else," he thought,
I should make the running at once, and
strike home with Grace and her father, while
the iron is hot. But that placid kind of
poetical fellow takes things so terribly to
heart ; and come what may of my own matrimonial
prospects, in common gratitude I must
not make him miserable for life. I must feel
my own way before I do anything further;
and after all, should Grace have the bad taste
to prefer him, I must comfort myself as I may,
and seek consolation elsewhere. She is an
extremely bewitching girl, no doubt; but
there are as good fish in the sea as ever came
out of it ; " and so thinking, he looked critically
towards Julia Winstanley, who, catching
his eyes, averted her own. Jack remembered,
too, that his cousin was an heiress ; but at
that moment his confidence in his own luck
was so great that he was in even a less mercenary

mood than usual, and he never much
cared for money for its own sake. And sounder
the influence of the Chateau Lafitte, he
came to the comfortable conclusion that he
might demonstrate his gratitude to Leslie with
no extraordinary sacrifice : that he would be
guided by circumstances without suffering
himself to be crushed by them.

But if Jack was inclined to resent Ralph
Leslie's apathy, he had no reason to complain
of his uncle's want of interest. Moray braced
himself to remember how he would have felt
had the impending calamity not been announced
to him. Then he would have made
his nephew's stroke of success his own, and
set himself to celebrate the occasion by promoting
an unusual gaiety. While Jack, with
a modesty more or less unaffected, parried the
compliments his uncle paid him on his sagacity,
by carrying the war into the enemy's
country. Having given Winstanley due credit
for his advice once for all, he almost ridiculed
Mr Moray for paying him any compliments.

You seem inclined to put me in the place
of Mr Pecksniff, who would have ascribed all
the merit to the virtues of his system of education

had his daughter picked up a purse in
the street. This plum has dropped into my
mouth because I happened to be sitting under
the tree, and I chanced to be sitting therewith
my mouth wide open. With you now,
as you very well know, it was altogether a
different thing. You followed up a first success
with stroke upon stroke, all of them being
directly due to your courage, foresight, and
determination. I don't mean to blow your
trumpet at your own table ; but if I appear to
flatter you in speaking the simple truth, you
ought to remember the provocation you have
given me. Ralph, there, should consecrate a
poem to your commercial exploits — perhaps,
indeed, he is contemplating one, for he seems
to be wrapt in silent meditation. Or, better
still, you might give us an autobiography
yourself, in the style of Daniel Defoe ; if you
were frankly circumstantial, its success should
be assured. It might have a run with the
rising generation like Robinson Crusoe, and
ought assuredly to throw Smiles on ' Self-help '
into the shade."

Upon my word and honour I agree with
you, Enables," chimed in Winstanley. " I

never thought of our good host turning author ;
but now that you suggest it, I don't see why
he should not. I daresay he may be as strong
in literary talent as on other points — at all
events, he might take Mr Leslie into a literary
partnership ; and what with Glenconan's practical
romance, and Mr Leslie's poetry, we
should have such a volume as the world has
seldom seen. What do you say to it, Miss
Moray ? "

Miss Moray laughed and entered into the
spirit of the joke, if joke it was. But apparently
she thought the suggestion worth serious
attention, for she believed her father to be
equal to anything, and longed that justice
should be done to a noble life, which had had
so little of the contamination of everyday trade
about it.

Never in his life, perhaps — not even on that
fatal afternoon — had Moray suffered so much
as from those ill-timed compliments and his
daughter's playfulness. He sat there tied to
the stake, nor could he escape from it, while
his favourite nephew held firebrands to his
epidermis, and his daughter with loving eyes
and smiling lips blew the brands into a smouldering

glow, and made his sufferings wellnigh
intolerable. Those successes of his, to what
did they all amount now, but the remorse and
disappointments of a wasted life ? To what
had he devoted the strength and the powers
of a lifetime, but to preparing for himself this
.crowning bitterness ? His saddest presentiments
had never foreshadowed anything so
bad ; and judging by the sharp measure meted
out to him, his reproaching conscience had
treated him only too leniently. Well, as he
paid such a penalty, surely his faults would
be purged; a ad at. any rate there was some
measure of consolation in that, were it not
that the sins of the father were being visited
upon the child, and that the unconscious innocent
one opposite to him was to suffer with
the guilty.

But the longest of all evenings must have
an end; and even with seasickness in an
Australian liner, or toothache in the trans-continental
express, we are reminded that
time is not eternity. When the ladies had
retired to bed and the gentlemen to the
smoking-room, Moray excused himself — truly
enough — on the score of some business, and

made a sign to Ralph Leslie, which was acknowledged.
Five minutes afterwards they
were together in Moray's den.

My things are packed, and perhaps you
will kindly order the dog-cart to take me onto
meet the train tomorrow morning," said
Leslie.

I supposed as much," returned his uncle,
and you are right to follow that telegram of
yours to your mother immediately. She will
need your presence and advice. Fortunately
my sister is a woman of sense and spirit ; and
she keeps that small jointure, I suppose, under
any circumstances ? "

1 do not know how that may be," returned
Leslie. " In the first place, the creditors
may have a lien even upon a secured
income ; in the next place, if I know my
mother at all, if she thinks sufferers have any
moral claim on her, she will never stand upon
legal technicalities."

As to her legal rights, I can say nothing.
But were she to make any sacrifice such as
sou suggest, it would be nothing less than
Quixotic. That, at least, is my deliberate
opinion ; and you know, Ralph, whether I

am likely to think lightly of conscientious
scruples."

Assuredly not ; and, no doubt, your opinion
would have great weight with my mother.
However, till I have an interview with her
lawyer, it is premature to discuss the point.
I hope sincerely, for her sake, she may have a
right to her jointure, and that she can stick toit
without any searchings of heart. Otherwise,
it will be a black look-out for her, and I don't
know who there is to help her."

Moray stared at Ralph in astonishment,
which he did not seek to conceal. And, of
course, Ralph understood him, and answered
the look in a rather injured tone.

Why, sir, you surely cannot possibly suppose
that I mean to continue master of my
little property ? It is strictly entailed, as you
are aware, but the rents are at my own disposal
; and if your fortune must be engulfed
in this miserable wreck, you cannot imagine
that I am to save anything ? "

Indeed, my dear boy, I do think so ; and
you are not only justified in holding to your
income, but bound to do so. If things areas
bad as we fear, you cannot save me ; for

the value of your life-rent of Eoodholm, even
could you give a valid title to it, which I
doubt, would be a mere drop in the bucket.
So much for legality or expediency. As for
morality, I say that the surrender would be
more Quixotic than the case of your mother
parting with her jointure. I may be beggared
for a technicality, and hard it seems ; but you
tell me that the law is clear, so there is nothing
for me but resignation. If you voluntarily
handed over your skin to the flaying knives of
the liquidators on a technicality, you would
fly in the face of your family duties, and sin
against all natural affection."

Leslie was struck by the argument, but not
altogether persuaded. He sat silent, turning
the question slowly in his mind, as was his
custom. So Moray, in his anxiety to drive
the argument home and clench it, tried the
effect of an appeal from which he would otherwise
have, shrunk.

You desire to ease your mind by involving
yourself in our common misfortune ; you
don't want to float away on the raft of Eood-
holm, while Grace and I go down with Glenconan
and all our personal property. I understand

the feeling, and it does you honour.
But it seems to me that if any one has a claim
on you it is we, rather than the creditors of
this most unlucky bank. You know I do
not speak for myself ; and my speaking at all
commits me personally never to accept a single
shilling from 3^011. But I confess I should not
be sorry to know that Grace as well as your
mother had a friend, on whose purse and
sympathy I could see her fall back in case
of necessity, without any great sense of humiliation.
There is not another man living to
whom I would say as much ; and remember
that, after all, you are our nearest kinsman."

If I could only play the Boaz to my cousin's
Ruth," thought Ralph ; but he was too generous
to give expression to the thought in the
circumstances. Though he would not commit
himself on the spur of the moment, he was
willing enough to be convinced by such considerations,
and he intimated as much to his
uncle, considerably to that gentleman's comfort.
The next morning he started for the
south, charged to make all possible inquiries
at the fountain-head, and to sift the matter
as far as possible to the bottom.

Don't telegraph, whatever you do," said
Moray, " unless in case of extreme necessity.
Grace must know nothing of this, till we are
assured of the extent of the calamity, and disclosure
becomes inevitable. But write fully,
and above all, frankly ; my best hope now of
an easy mind is to know the worst, that I
may lose as little time as possible in setting
about making the best of it."

CHAPTER XXL

A COUSINLY CONVERSATION.

Leslie found a pretext for his sudden departure,
but somehow nobody seemed to give
much credit to it. There was a sense of mystery
in the air, and the serenity of the social
atmosphere was troubled. Moray strove todo
his best to make himself agreeable, but it
was not in human nature to support the strain
with the equanimity he had assumed in the
excitement of its first coming. His bursts of
gaiety were forced and unnatural ; they were
followed by relapses into silent abstraction.
His friends behaved according to their several
idiosyncrasies. Winstanley, with his accustomed
sagacity, scented trouble in the air, and
thought that, for his own comfort as well as
out of consideration for his host, it might be
advisable to shorten his visit. The excuse

was all ready. Julia ought to be going south
her mother wanted her ; and as he knew of
no suitable escort, he had best take her in
charge himself. If he felt inclined, he could
always alter his plans en route, and consign
her to her destination from Edinburgh or
Glasgow. Calverley Baker felt less clear as
to his arrangements. He was attracted, if
not entangled, both by Miss Moray and Miss
Winstanley ; he liked his present quarters,
and was loath to leave them, though he too
had a shrewd idea that his room might be
more desirable than his company. As for that
rattling Celt, the M'Claverty, he was innocently
unconscious of any cause for troubling
himself. He ate, drank, shot, and amused
himself, and trod on his host's corns at every
turn. With Jack Enables, as we need hardly
say, it was very different. He watched, he
meditated, and felt sorely aggrieved that he
had not been thought worthy of the confidence
which had been unquestionably extended
to Leslie. For though he said very
little when Winstanley spoke to him on the
subject, that there was a secret of some sort
he never doubted. Yet he was too loyal to

the friendly connection, and to what he was
pleased to think his love, to aid a stranger in
discovering what his uncle desired to conceal.

For all that Mr Moray cared comparatively
little, as his daughter caused him infinitely
greater anxiety. Since they had been so
much together, she had been in the habit of
reading his face ; and he very soon discovered,
to his sorrow, that there was no possibility of
deceiving her. He was too honest or too
weak to act his part successfully, and with
her his vaunted stoicism was a transparent
sham. After trying repeatedly to win him
over to tell her all she was eager to know,
after affectionately making opportunities
which he would resolutely ignore, although it
was evident to her that he was longing to
avail himself of them, — she finally lost patience
in her desperation, and put the question
to him direct.

There is something very serious troubling
you, papa; and as it must affect me as
well, I have a right to know it. Oh, it is no
use denying it, even if you dared ! and though
you may keep a secret from me, which I
should scarcely have believed, you could never

say what is untrue. And had it concerned
yourself alone, though that is impossible, you
would never have cared about it half so much.
You have often said that we understood each
other thoroughly, yet it seems that you can
never have understood me at all, otherwise I
should call you unkind, and even cruel. The
only thing a girl is good for is comforting her
father when he needs comfort. And you forget
that when you are silent, I am imagining
the worst, and very likely giving myself unnecessary
anxiety."

Her father involuntarily groaned. Seeing
that nothing short of ruin was before them,
his daughter's worst fancies could hardly play
her false.

Grace answered the groan with a sorrowful
look which was more eloquent than any appeal
in words. With his pale face and his quivering
lips, Moray seemed like a criminal under
the pressure in the torture-chamber. So that,
in a spasm of remorse at her playing the tormentor,
she tried to speak more playfully, and
only changed the form of torture.

I should not have been so vexed had my
cousin Ralph been your only confidant ; but

it is clear to me that Donald Eoss is in the
conspiracy of silence as well, and I cannot say
I feel flattered by the preference. Oh, you
must not blame poor Donald," she went on
hurriedly, for her father had moved his lips
with something that suggested an execration.
If he did tell me the story of the widow, he
would not breathe a syllable in a case like
this ; but I am sure the old man was nevermore
miserable in his life, and I only put two
and two together."

Then Moray heaved a sigh that threw a
weight off his chest, and made up his mind
in a moment. He expected the letter from
Leslie that very forenoon, so that, after all,
the disclosure would only be anticipated by an
hour or two. If his worst fears were realised,
no harm would be done ; if, on the contrary,
things proved better than he expected, the
shock of the great calamity would be lightened.
He had taken her in his strong arms,
and clasped her with a tender pressure, so
that she could feel the palpitations of his
heart. He had just begun with, " You know
well I never doubted you, dearest ; that if I
have hurt your feelings by my silence, it was

all meant for the best," — when a knock at the
door interrupted him. Grace had come to
seek him in his den, to which in these days
he withdrew only too frequently.

Who is it ? " he asked impatiently, pushing
his daughter away from his embrace.

A boy with a pony has brought the postbag
on from the post-office, sir. One of the
letters was marked for special and immediate
delivery." And the man's tone of sympathetic
interest irritated his master. It seemed to
show that the trouble he had sought to conceal
was common talk in the household. He
was on the point of telling the servant to take
the letter-bag away, since there could be no
possible hurry about the contents. But looking
at his daughter, who seemed to have been
struck into a statue of suspense, he changed
his mind, and sacrificed his amour propre.
"Well, you may give it me then, since you
say one of the letters is marked urgent ; but
remember another time, when you know me
to be engaged, that any urgent letters will
keep."

So the man went away, more convinced
than ever that his master had grave reasons

VOL. II. H

for anxiety ; and the moment the door had
closed behind him, Grace in turn had thrown
her arms round her father. She saw that his
anxiety was great as her own, so she administered
a kiss by way of cordial. Though he
was grievously ashamed of his agitation, his
fingers fumbled as he opened the lock of the
bag, and drew out a handful of letters and
papers. Letters for himself, for Win Stanley,
for Baker, &c. ; and naturally the last he
came to was that addressed in Leslie's hand.
Confound those square envelopes that are
gummed all round and all over ! " His trembling
fingers could hardly force their way in.
But if he had hoped against hope, hope was
extinguished at the first glance. " I am
grieved, my dear uncle," Leslie began — and
then he knew that all was over. He laid the
letter down, and before reading further, he
briefly broke their condition and their prospects
to his daughter. Of course he need have had
no anxiety as to the immediate effect on her.
So far as that went, he ought to have known
her better. Grace, who had been brought up
from the cradle in luxury, was ignorant as a
baby of the sordid side of life. It was impossible

that she should shrink on the spur
of the moment from the pecuniary sorrows
that were quite unfamiliar. More especially
when in a state of high nervous exaltation,
all her thoughts and sympathies were concentrated
upon her father. What occurred to
her was, that here was a chance of rising to
her ideal mission as a ministering angel. She
had longed for some occasion of proving her
great love, and now and at last she had the opportunity.
Moreover, she believed so entirely
in her father's courage and resources, that she
was as slow as himself to admit that misfortunes
could shake him to his fall. Not
that she by any means blinked the real state
of the case ; but she was ready to . welcome
any sacrifices that might be imposed. To her
high spirit, overstrung by her filial devotion,
that seemed but a new form of pleasurable
excitement. Had she foreseen the separation
it might involve, her feelings must have been
very different.

It is sad, to be sure, that you should lose
the fruits of all your labours," she said ; " but
after all, we shall only part with the superfluities,
which were always as much of a trouble

as a pleasure. I never cared for that life in
town ; and as for you, had it not been for
your labours in East London, I am very certain
it would have been nothing but positive
wretchedness to you."

"Perhaps so," answered Moray, with a sigh;
yet I begin to regret it, now that it has
slipped from me. It is no light thing to lose
the power and pleasure of doing good ; and
then — Glenconan. How I wish it had been
entailed ! and I have rejoiced so much in freeing
it from its nucleus, and in the prospect of
leaving the old place to you and your husband."

I don't know about the power of doing
good, but as to the pleasure, it can only be
more keen when we do good on a narrow
income. Remember the blessing on the widow
who bestowed her two mites was greater than
on the rich who gave out of their superfluities.
And as for Glenconan — my husband, should
ever I have one, must manage to make himself
happy without it. At all events, now, if
I am married, it will be for myself, and not
for my money. So that you see, papa, on
second thoughts even this calamity is not
without its compensations."

I know a man who would make you
happy, whether he married you with your
money or without it," thought Moray. And
thinking so, his thoughts very naturally reverted
to the momentous communication lying
on the table. It did not tell them much
that was new : it merely confirmed his worst
anticipations. " With regard to the prospects
of the liquidation," Leslie wrote, " which is
the all-important question, I regret to say
that the gloomiest reports are generally circulated
and believed. The largest shareholders
are deeply indebted to the bank, by
the fraudulent complicity of their friends on
the direction, and I fear they are hopelessly
insolvent. It is the story of the ' City of
Glasgow' over again, and some of the directors
have borrowed enormous sums which
they can be in no position to repay. The
rest of the shares, with not many exceptions,
are held by persons of very moderate means,
or by small tradesmen who have sunk their
savings in them. In the circumstances, it
would be both cowardly and foolish to shrink
from looking our misfortune in the face, and
I know the firmness of your resolution too

well," &c, &c. Then he passed from business
to what may be called sentiment, and
reiterated the expressions of his heartfelt grief
that his mother should have been the cause
of beggaring his uncle. " I know not how
you are to break this to poor Grace," he
went on. "To a girl brought up as she has

been "

But there Grace interrupted the reading.
A girl brought up as she has been, indeed !
Yet why should I complain of my cousin
misunderstanding me, when my father could
think I should be troubled for myself." Then
changing her tone, she sighed out "Poor
Ralph ! " Putting herself in his place, she
remembered how bitterly, with his unselfishness,
he must feel his position. For her
father had told her of Ralph's proposition,
and of the practical arguments which had
induced him to reconsider it. Perhaps, looking
at these from another point of view, she
attached less importance to them than he had
done. But she did him the justice to feel
that he would suffer the more severely, if
he were persuaded to remain even in the
nominal enjoyment of his estate when she

and her father had been ruined. She knew
enough of the world to be aware that evil
tongues would talk ill of him, and that well-meaning
people would misconstrue his motives.
She knew how that sensitive nature
of his would smart under such misconstruction.
And although she had characteristically
undervalued the loss of their lands and
their money, she already began to realise some
other of the sorrows in store for them.

Moray was the first to break a silence that
had lasted for some minutes. " Well, Grace,
my darling, now we are assured of the worst,
there is no time to be lost in providing for
it. I don't mean as to matters of business,"
he added, with a sad smile ; " they will keep
for a time, since nothing we may do can
mend them. And Ralph has full powers to
act for me, and he will keep us informed
of all that goes on. But it would be hypocrisy,
and worse, to try to play the happy
and wealthy hosts for an hour after we positively
know that we are paupers. I hate a
scene, but fortunately no one has gone out
shooting to-day; and when [the party assembles
at lunch, I shall tell them all about

it. Of course till that is over, you will keep
your room. Nay, I ask it as a personal
favour, for I will not lay my commands on
you. Alone, I can go through with it well
enough : I should be ashamed to break down
over a mere loss of money. But with you
at my elbow, I could not answer for myself;
and you would not willingly be the cause of
my weakness — or the witness of it."

Grace had nothing to answer to that argument
; but again she felt the sharp prick of
the thorns. She was like the passenger who
is ordered below under battened-down hatches,
and denied the excitement of open-air dangers
on deck, when the ship may at any moment
be sent to the bottom.

Of course, papa, I shall do as you desire ;
and perhaps it may be the best. But there is
still an hour to lunch, so I shall slip out at
the side door, and wander up the wood-paths
in the glen. The fresh air will do me good,
and I may make the most of our beauties
while we have them."

Her eyes filled with tears, and so, to tell the
truth, did her father's. Next to the daughter
who was so dear to him, he grieved over his

beautiful Glenconan. But it was no time to
give way to emotion, and he pulled himself
sharply together, as he had often done
before.

You say it is an hour to lunch, dear, and
there is one thing I ought to do : I must try
to get hold of Jack beforehand. He is a good
boy, and my nephew, and he would think it
unkind if he heard nothing of our trouble till
I announced it to strangers."

With that he folded his daughter iu a fond
embrace ; and never, even on the occasions
when he had left for the East, were the two
so loath to tear themselves asunder. From the
window he followed her with his eyes as she
stole swiftly towards the glen, like the lapwing
that strives to elude observation as she
seeks the cover of the rushes near her nest.
But as Grace felt escape more assured, her
pace began to slacken ; and she moved with
an air of melancholy listlessness that sat
strangely on her light and active figure.

Heaven send," sighed her father, " that
the clouds may lift and pass ; but meanwhile,
and in a single hour, the whole brightness of
her bright life has been transformed, and I

hardly dare think how she may come out of
the darkness."

Grace was slowly climbing the winding
path which led to a favourite seat of hers
hanging over a murmuring waterfall. How
often she had sat there in pleasant day-dreams,
listening to the cheery plash of the water,
that seemed to chime in with her own bright
anticipations ! The very foam-bubbles in the
stream below, that sparkled in the sunshine as
they danced and broke, might have been the
emblems of the light and careless life, so free
from all sorrows and anxieties. The reflection
of the rainbow colours on the little clouds of
spray had typified the varieties of a radiance
that only took different forms. Now the
merry memories of that happy past only made
the present and the future weigh more heavily
on her. The gay girl of the night before was
a grave and thoughtful woman : she felt as if
she might have slept for years, and wakened
with a weakened body, in a woful world of sad
experiences. It was all very well keeping her
spirits up when it was her duty and privilege
to console her father. It was all very well to
pretend in his presence that the news he had

broken need change nothing to her. She resembled
him very closely in many ways, but
naturally she was more emotional, nor had
she his disciplined self-control. So that the
reaction came with her more quickly than it
had come to him, and already she was conscious
of a sad depression of spirit — of an
intense craving for the sympathy of somebody
with whom she could talk things over more
freely than she dare talk with her father. " Oh
that Ralph were only here ! " was the natural
thought that occurred to her, as she remembered
the instinctive delicacy with which he
had played the part of the consoler, when the
widow of the unfortunate keeper had been the
object of their common charity. Then, forgetting
Ralph and her own sorrows for a
moment, she reproached herself bitterly for
the lightness of heart in which she had gone
about that errand of mercy. No doubt she
had been what she might have called " very
nice"; she had said very suitable things in a
sympathetic tone ; she had spent her money
or rather her father's money — liberally.
But all the time, in practising her charity
as a luxury, as a philanthropical distraction,

how very little had she really felt ! And possibly
she might never have the opportunity
again of bestowing anything more than empty
words of comfort. But how different had it
been with Ralph ! — she was sure of that. He
had really felt where she had tried to feel ;
so if he were only at her elbow now, what
an inexpressible relief it would be. But ashe
was far away, and as she found herself
in a double solitude, she would do the next
most comfortable thing in the circumstances
reach the haven of that lonely seat of hers,
and indulge in the luxury of a good cry. She
would have plenty of time before bathing her
eyes and going back, since she had promised
her father not to appear at lunch.

Mr Jack Enables, who had made no such
promise, chanced then to be descending the
hillside in excellent spirits and appetite.
What he was thinking of at that particular
moment I cannot pretend to say — perhaps, as
was very much his habit, of nothing in especial.
But it is certain that since his latest
stroke of good luck, in spite of some vague
anxieties about his uncle, he had moved about
in an extreme sense of exhilaration. He had

developed a novel taste for music, and had
taken to whistling an accompaniment to his
footsteps of reels and strathspeys, which,
though for the most part they were woefully
out of tune, appeared notwithstanding to
please him excessively. Now, as coming by
a short cut down the hill, bounding lightly
from heather tussock to heather tussock, he
was blundering with shortened breath at the
second bar of " Tullochgorum," when he
reached a point which commanded a view of
the bench on which his cousin was seated.
Whereupon he stopped short, and stood at
gaze, partly to make sure that she was Grace
and not Julia, for he seldom saw his cousin
alone of a morning. Sure enough it was
Grace, but he was greatly struck by her attitude.
For in place of sitting upright, she
was stooped nearly double, and, unless his
eyes deceived him, was weeping bitterly.
Jack was very warm-hearted, and somewhat
curious as well. His cousin was in trouble ;
it would be a melancholy pleasure to comfort
her ; and then, no doubt, she had the clue to
the secret that had been exercising him. It
would be well if we analysed our mixed

motives more often, though instantaneous
photographs of mental introspection might
yield very ugly results. He resumed his
descent somewhat more leisurely, for his mind
was more full of speculation than ever, and
after what he had seen, he had no fear of his
cousin making a move immediately. He had
suspended the whistling, which might have
given her warning of his approach, but, being
an honourable young fellow, he had no intention
of taking her by surprise. Having made
a slight circuit so as to cut off her retreat to
the house, he struck up his " Tullochgorum "
again, and more shrilly than ever, making a
considerable rustling among the pine-boughs
moreover, as he climbed the hill-path in turn.
His attitude of amazement when he stumbled
upon his cousin did credit to his histrionic
powers ; and the way in which he
rattled on about his morning's walk, and the
observations he had been making; on Highland
natural history, in the manner of the intelligent
hero of " Eyes and No Eyes " in our old
friend ' Evenings at Home,' said much for his
delicacy of feeling. But Grace, whose suspicions
were perhaps excited by her sorrows,

and who knew that she had vainly dropped
a veil over her swollen and streaming eyes,
was impatient both of the pretence and the
interruption. So long as all went well, Jack
was the most agreeable of companions ; but it
was not towards him she would have turned
in adversity. She showed her impatience and
annoyance by a movement that was more
significant than flattering. Jack was hurt and
humiliated, but, strange to say, in no way
offended. Or if he was annoyed, it was only
with himself. It ■ all came of his confounded
finessing, although he had finessed with the
best intentions : he had been artificial, if not
false, where he ought to have been cousinly
and natural. And warm-hearted as he was,
when he saw his cousin overwhelmed with
grief, he felt nothing but an unselfish eagerness
to help her. As he spoke out frankly
and manfully, yet in tones of deep tenderness,
visibly broken by real emotion, every trace of
resentment vanished from her heart and her
face, and she frankly threw up her veil. It
was the sign that she meant to have no more
secrets with him ; for had she not her father's
permission to tell him all ?

And indeed, as she told the pitiful story,
her heart warmed to him as it had never
warmed before. The young man was quite
overcome, and could conceal his sorrow as
little as his astonishment. To him the loss of
worldly substance appeared far more serious
than it had seemed to her at first sight. He
was not one to undervalue the evils of poverty
or the loss of social position and consideration.
He could put himself quickly in his uncle's
place, and realise all the bitterness of seeing
the fruits of a successful career swept away
when it might be too late to recover them.
And at once, by intuitive sympathy of temperament,
he conceived Moray's mind and
read his purpose. He foresaw, what had never
yet occurred to Grace, that their ruin meant
a new separation. Grace would see her father
go into exile a second time, just when, having
been pauperised or beggared, she most needed
affectionate support. Though, to be sure, she
need neither be beggared nor impoverished.
And then he melted to her in a great sympathy,
which was free for the time from any
touch of selfishness. It was with a trembling
voice and a strange diffidence of manner that

he reminded her how she and her father
could never want friends, and stanch friends.
In the earnestness of his feelings, he spoke
almost as Leslie might have spoken.

"Remember that, through a long and
honourable life, your father has not a single
action to reproach himself with. Remember
that, when he was rich and happy, he never
neglected one opportunity of doing good.
Look at me, for example, whom he has loaded
with kindnesses, and with whom he offered
to share his fortune ; and be sure that in this
passing adversity he will reap the fruits of
what he has sown. Why, there are men, and
good men, whom he has bound to him by
obligations, who will think it the best day of
their lives when he consents to accept some
return. Trust me, dearest Grace," he went
on, — and his sanguine nature did then good
service, for there was no mistaking that he
believed what he said, — "trust me, that we
shall pull through somehow or other, and that
things will come out very differently from
what you anticipate."

It was Jack's candour as much as anything
else that gave Grace, at all events, some

VOL. II. ■ i

momentary hope. He was too honest, being
thoroughly in earnest, to try to befool her
with commonplace remarks to the effect that
matters might be less desperate than she
fancied. It was possible, but he did not
believe it ; and he would not prepare disappointments
for her. She was quick enough
to perceive ' as much, and to be grateful, and
it gave her an agreeable sense of confidence
in his predictions and consolations. Then the
way in which he had spoken of her father was
very sweet to her ; ancf she was grateful again
that, in the circumstances, he paid no compliments
to herself. She had always much liked
him, as we know ; but now she felt a great
revulsion of kindness in his favour. Blinded
by his superficial brilliancy, and deceived by
his gaiety of manner, hitherto she had never
done him justice ; and she remembered reproachfully
how but a few minutes before she
had regarded his arrival as an intrusion and a
nuisance. It was never in her nature not to
repay kindness with kindness — not to make
reparation as she could — when conscience reproached
her. Besides, Jack had been unmanned
by excess of sympathy — she could

see the tears still sparkling in his eyes, poor
fellow ! It was surely no time for reserve,
when she had so much to say that would be
pleasant for him to hear. He had laid hold
of her hands, and pressed them in his ardour,
and she squeezed his in return.

Oh, Jack, you make me so happy, and so
miserable, and so much ashamed of myself.
I always liked you and admired you, and
knew you must get on and make your way.
But I never knew how good and how noble
you were. There is some good already coming
out of all this evil, for the scales are falling
away from my blinded eyes. But you must
confess," she added, as she smiled through her
tears, " that you should bear some of the
blame. Why will you always talk lightly of
all things, and never give expression to the
real nobleness of your heart ? But now we
have had our explanation, and I hope it maybe
a lesson to both of us."

Jack liked such lessons very much. And it
was characteristic of him that, in those transports
of his, and in this mood of exaltation,
he accepted all she said to him very much as
his due. Self-examination subsequently would

have told a very different tale. In the meantime
he felt, with agreeable resignation to
misrepresentations, that hitherto he had been
a much misunderstood, not to say a maligned,
character ; and that his unquestionable worldliness
had been a mask, which should nevertheless
have been transparent. But it was
the fate of virtue to meet with injustice,
while in this instance justice had been done,
although tardily ; and on the whole all was
well that ended well. Then rising to the
height of the situation, and without the
slightest hypocrisy, he set himself, in the
most delicate manner possible, to give his
cousin assurance of substantial assistance.
His only desire was to speak so that she
might be induced to accept his offers and the
sacrifices he was ready, nay eager, to make.

All this time the minutes had been flying
swiftly by, and the rest of the house party at
Glenconan must have been safely seated at the
luncheon-table. But had any of them bent
their steps towards Miss Moray's sylvan
bower, he or she must have read the last
chapter of a romance in a scene that was
merely cousinly if not purely platonic. Jack,

still holding both his cousin's hands in his,
from leaning against one of the rustic posts
had gradually settled down upon one knee.
But he rose as Grace breathed her confession
of penitence, and for the first time she made
room for him on the seat behind her. To keep
his hold of both her hands in the circumstances
would have been awkward, if not impossible.
So releasing one, by way of recompense
he softly stole an arm round her waist.
It was done in all cousinly honour, and
whether she was conscious of it or not, she
made no objections. It was no time to stand
upon trifles, with her heart going out in gratitude
to her kinsman. And Jack, to do him
justice, was by no means consciously lover-like.
He fancied he felt to her something
like a father. He longed to attain to the
privilege of a disinterested benefactor. He
pled and he pressed his claims with all his
native energy and eloquence.

"You cannot refuse, Grace, neither can
your father. It would be cruel in you : it
would be churlish in him. We have been
brought up like brother and sister," — there
he rather drew the long-bow, since he had

only seen her once or so before their meeting
at Glenconan in the previous summer ; but the
emergency admitted of poetical licence, and
neither, as I said, was standing on trifles.
We have been brought up like brother and
sister," said Jack, with great fervour; "and
as for your father, he has been a father tome.
Do you know that he placed his purse
at my disposal, and offered to launch me in
the East at his own expense, when that
legacy of mine made acceptance unnecessary ?
Do you know that when I went in for my first
fortunate speculation — it was at Oban, on the
way south, after my shipwreck — and when
Mr Winstanley objected to the insufficiency
of my means, I told him with entire confidence
that I could count upon Glenconan's assistance ?
I should have asked anything of him, only
Winstanley stepped in. So you see that really
I am largely his debtor, and now I have the
first claim among many others to ask him tolet
me lighten my load of gratitude."

It was well and delicately urged, as Grace
felt ; and she was not unwilling herself to
welcome relief from that quarter. His gentle
manner soothed her deliciously : she remembered

how steadily successful he had been,
and leant naturally towards the support that
was offered them. So she did not refuse
absolutely, as he had feared : as she would
have refused almost with scorn and indignation
had he spoken more abruptly. She
rather temporised, and murmured the objection
that from him, or from a man of her
father's age, offers of the kind came very
differently.

My father was an elderly man, and thought
himself wealthy. As you said, he might have
stood to you also in the place of a parent ;
and it was your duty to accept from him what
we dare not accept from you."

Nonsense, Grace ! There speaks your
pride, and a false pride, as you know very
well." As he saw her listening, hesitating,
and half yielding, he resolved to carry her
resistance with a rush. " Nonsense! you know
that age has nothing to do with it. I am old

o o

enough to be my own master, and to know my
own mind — and yours. To put it upon higher
grounds, have you any right to refuse me the
luxury of doing a duty that is comparatively
unselfish ! I have never had such a chance

before : I may never have such a chance again.
I must have your help, of course — the whole
tenor of my future life may be trembling upon
a single word from you. Refuse — only you
have not the heart to refuse — and if I become
a callous and self-seeking monev-^rubber, I
only hope you may never reproach yourself.
If you knew my temptations that way, you
would surely come to the rescue. Accept,
and only promise you will do your best to
prevail on your father — and do you really
suppose I shall be the poorer or the worse ?
Even if I be a trifle the less rich for a time, I
shall never have made a better speculation,
and you cannot have the conscience to refuse
me from false pride."

Again Jack and his cousin Ralph seemed to
have changed roles ; and as he put himself in
the place of the cousin that she reverenced,
she was more and more moved in his favour.
He was quite right, as she admitted. What
had chilled the liking that might have once
changed to love, was the suspicion that at
bottom he was selfish and worldly. If there
had been anything of truth in that, he had
generous impulses, which only needed to be

fostered into vigorous life. His fate, as it
seemed, might be in his hands, and terrible
might be the responsibility if she refused to
help him. It would be hard enough in any
case to deal with her father, with his rugged
pride, with his haughty independence, — but
at any rate, was she not bound to try ? If
she failed, she would have done her best ; she
would have pleased her cousin by making
common cause with him, and she would have
delivered her conscience. While, if she succeeded
— and she knew something of her influence
— her fathers fall would be broken to
him, and he would be easy in his declining
years. It was not in her nature to give her
confidence by halves, or to accept such kindness
as this without doing her utmost to show
her sense of it. Metaphorically she threw herself
into Jack's arms, and heart and soul she
accepted his alliance. And to do that honest-hearted
but impulsive young gentleman bare
justice, never in his life had he felt more
grateful or gratified. Not when he had heard
of the legacy that gave him wings to fly ; not
when Winstanley, reaching out a hand, had
lifted him on to a firm standing-point ; not

when the private secretaryship to my Lord
Wrekin had offered him an admirable opening
in politics ; not when, only a day or two before,
the telegram about the American mine
had given him the partnership in a possible
El Dorado. Again, it would be ungracious to
analyse the motives which he assuredly did
not pause to examine himself. He may have
felt something of the pride of unfamiliar
power, in the prospect of saving such a man
as Glenconan, whom he had regarded as the
ideal of a successful adventurer. He may
have had some arriere-pensee of the hold he
was laying upon Grace, who seemed leaning
to him more and more, in her love and her
fast-growing gratitude. Certain it is, that he
behaved with rare delicacy and circumspection.
Grace had said, with delightful warmth
and brevity, and with a look that meant much
more than the words —

Say no more, dear Jack ; you have more
than persuaded me, and I can only promise todo
my best. Should my father accept these
favours at your hand, you will have good
reason to be proud, though it may seem ungracious
to say so. You may be sure, at all

events, that neither he nor I will ever forget
what you have offered us to-day."

And as the colour had come back to her
cheeks with reviving excitement and hopes ;
as her tears had dried themselves in the breeze,
and her eyes seemed the brighter and the
fresher for them ; as the listlessness of her
attitude had given place to her usual lithe and
graceful vigour, with the earnest passion of
the emotion that had left its traces on her
face, — Jack had never before known the richness
of her beauty. It was destined to be a
day of revelations. To his delight she intimated
her acquiescence in his offers. He came
back to something like his own familiar self.
The sacredness of her sorrow had chilled him
into reverence. With her promise to permit
him to relieve it, and her reviving spirits, his
passion began to awaken with his perception
of the beautiful, and he admired the woman
with a passionate admiration. At that moment
he would have stripped himself of all he
had, willing to begin the world again, could
he only have made sure of securing her as his
wife ; and yet but a few moments before he
had been thinking neither of love nor marriage.

But Jack was a gentleman, and his generous
intentions still made his cousin very sacred to
him, and not for an instant would he have
abused his opportunities. It had occurred to
him to ask her to be his wife on the spot : but
he dismissed the thought before he had entertained
it. He would as soon have made love
to a woman whose will had been paralysed by
mesmerism, like a Lorenzo under the spells of
a Joseph Balsam. On the contrary, with one
last lingering pressure, which he could not
resist, he gently withdrew his arm from
around her waist. ■ He sealed their bargain
with a cousinly kiss on the cheek, which he
did not prolong indiscreetly, and then, to all
appearance, becoming once more the self-possessed
man of business, he began to discuss
ways and means, and to prepare his cousin for
what she had to say to her father. He had
not tried to blink the magnitude of this misfortune
in the beginning of their interview,
and now it proved that honesty was the best
policy. He put the case to her with a precision
that might have appeared cruel in other
circumstances.

Of course, till you told me, I never suspected
how deeply we were concerned in this
miserable failure. All the same, I was interested
in it as a public calamity, and have been
reading everything about it very carefully. If
we are to trust the best information, there is
no denying that the smash may swallow even
a fortune such as your father's. It would be
no kindness to prepare disappointments for
you by persuading you of anything else. And,
like the friendly swimmer who told his drowning
comrade in the water that he would not
lay a finger upon him till he was helpless, I
must not come forward ostensibly till the final
arrangements have been made. Meanwhile
and I was never so thankful for it before — I
have more money than I know what to do with.
I am always so actively employed, that I have
never the time to spend or to squander ; and
I have had marvellous luck, as you know,
with every one of my investments."

You may say now ' a marvellous blessing,'
I think," suggested Grace, softly.

A marvellous blessing, then, if you choose
to sanctify my money by drawing on it ; and

from henceforth, dear Grace, remember I have
your promise to persuade your father to treat
me as his son's'' He did not venture to add,
and as your brother," though he had to check
the sweet words that were trembling on his
lips.

CHAPTER XXII.

AN EXCITING LUNCHEON.

Glenconan's guests had enjoyed many a lively
meal under his hospitable roof, or in his picturesque
glens. But never had they had such
an exciting repast as at the luncheon on that
memorable "Black Monday." Though the
great news was their piece de resistance, it
really came in as dessert. Once again he had
summoned his pride to his aid, and done the
honours with something like his former joviality.
Only a close observer might have remarked
that his appetite failed him, and that
he trilled with the knife and fork that were
wont to do signal execution. He was eager to
precipitate the inevitable disclosure ; he was
longing to know how those friends of his would
take it. Their reception of the announcement
would be a pretty fair test of what he might

expect from the world. But he had made up
his mind to wait till they had trifled with the
cheese and the biscuits ; and with eyes turning
perpetually towards the clock, he suffered
and waited accordingly. Then, as it chanced,
Mr Winstanley gave him an opening.

"Everything must stagnate, of course, towards
the end of August ; but really, on my
word and honour, those papers become intolerably
dull. Shooting is all very well for you
young men, but I have become somewhat dependent
on public sensations. And all the
subjects are either . threadbare or trivial, or at
all events they do not recommend themselves
to my selfishness. I know all about the
national defences, and the wisdom of imperial
federation, and the due protection of our coal-indentations.
I confess that my sympathies
are purely platonic for the shop-girls who are
forbidden to use the chairs provided by their
employers for customers. And I am personally
indifferent as to openings in life for ' our
boys,' seeing that happily I have no boys to
provide for. I must say, Moray, that in your
favourite role of Monte Christ, you are bound
to supply us with a new sensation."

"And I have got it for you, Winstanley,"
said Moray, so gravely that that sensitive
gentleman felt he had put his foot in it. Remembering
the mystery that had been floating
in the air, he knew at once that he had
pulled the string of a shower-bath, and
might look out for a chilling douche. He
had rather the string had been pulled by any
hand but his own ; but it was too late
to laugh it off, and he simply sat still and
listened.

Then Moray told his story, frankly and with
manly brevity. He made no moan over his
misfortune ; he did not condescend to apologise
for his carelessness : what was present to
his mind was the duty incumbent upon him of
showing, that he expected and would accept of
nothing from his auditors.

I should not have troubled you," he said,
with those personal annoyances of mine, but
they may become public property within the
next day or *two ; and I felt that as you are
living under my roof, you have the guests'
claim on my confidence. I think I should
have been wanting in the duties of hospitality
had I left you to learn anything of

VOL. II. K

this from others, or possibly from the public
prints."

In his jealous fear of their misconstruing
his motives, he was careful to say nothing of
the claims of friendship ; and yet, while his
manner was stern and almost repelling, he was
longing for some frank outburst of sympathy.

Had he thrown a bomb-shell by way of a
dish for dessert into the middle of the little
party, he could scarcely have surprised them
more, or, I may add, scattered them from
Glenconan more effectually. Not that they
were worse than the rest of the world, or that
the world is so bad as it is popularly supposed
to be. But our ordinary acquaintances, on
the shortest possible notice, cannot be expected
to undertake the bearing of their neighbours'
burdens, more especially when the burdens
mean unlimited liability. The first impulse is
to put themselves out of reach of danger ; the
second, perhaps, to see what can be done.

Calverley Baker was getting on towards
becoming a millionaire by inheriting a lucrative
business and looking sharply after number
one. It was not to be expected that in
the first shock of a deception, though it might

have been an involuntary deception, lie was
to fly in the face of all his principles, and
commit himself. Moreover, he had been considerably
smitten by Miss Moray, and could
not precisely remember how far he might have
pushed his advances. The douche that Winstanley
had thrown down on the luncheon-party
had effectually chilled any fervour in
his affection ; and while he murmured something
sympathetic, he had made up his mind
that he must be summoned to the south by
some telegram on the morrow. Once at Cardiff,
as he told his conscience, regaining his
freedom of will, he could do anything that
was friendly and judicious. As for the
M'Claverty, the chieftain was an honest fellow
enough, and sorrowed for the calamity more
than might have been expected. He had
taken kindly to Grlenconan, who was a capital
companion on the moors ; and in his inborn
]pride of birth and race, he would have regretted
the extirpation of an ancient Highland family.
He was sorry for Glenconan, and very sorry
for himself, for he too had had vague aspirations
of marrying the heiress. And he spoke
out the more heartily and unreservedly that

nobody could reasonably expect anything of
him. He enjoyed but a different of entailed
acres ; and if he were not actually poor as Job,
it would have been the height of absurdity
had he held out a lean purse to the tottering
Croesus.

Winstanley's feelings were much more complicated.
I must have been very unsuccessful
in my sketch of that gentleman if I have not
shown him as at once good-natured and inveterately
selfish. Far more than Mr Baker
would he have been willing to help Moray.
But even more than the wealthy Welsh ironmaster,
thanks to his familiarity with boards
of direction, was he paralysed by the horrors
of unlimited calls. Prompt offers of help seemed
out of the question, yet his situation had become
extremely awkward. It is true that he
did not care for dissipation, or even gaieties ;
but he by no means assented to the dictum of
the Preacher, that it is better to be in the
house of mourning than in the house of mirth.
What had suggested itself to him before occurred
to him again, that there is such a thing
as overstaying your welcome. And so by a
wide circuit he travelled to the same conclusion

as Baker, that lie would do the best for
himself as for his unfortunate friend by withdrawing
his foot from his friend's house as soon
as possible. But Winstanley was nothing if
not considerate, and the ugly coincidence of a
telegram next day was an idea that could not
possibly have occurred to him. He determined
to cover his deliberate retreat with a kindness
that should leave nothing to desire, and which,
indeed, he felt rather than feigned. And like
Baker, only with more sincerity of purpose, he
resolved that he would reach Moray a helping
hand. As the oldest man in the company, as
the crony and almost the confidant of their
host, it clearly devolved upon him to reply.
And to do him justice, he weighed and chose
his words as much out of consideration for
Moray's feelings as for his own.

God knows, Glenconan, how grieved I am.
Had such a misfortune fallen on my brother,
as it might well have come upon any man, I
could hardly have been more sorry. It would
be paying you a poor compliment to try to
make light of it, and I know your character
far too well to underrate its strength. At the
same time, let me remind you, as an old man

of the world, that our tendency under such
shocks necessarily is to go to extremes. Bad
as things may be, you may take it for granted
that they are not nearly so black as they appear
to be now. You see all the circumstances
from a desponding point of view : you forecast
none of the many chances that must mitigate
them. I may venture to add, perhaps, that
you forget the friends who can never forget
their many obligations to you."

It must be confessed that the words of this
speech of sympathy, though somewhat cold,
were not ill-chosen. In the last sentence, which
had been added by way of rider, the speaker
had gone further than he originally intended.
But in watching Moray's impassive face, he
had warmed up, so as to try to strike one responsive
spark from it ; and after all, he had
committed himself to nothing he was not willing
to perform. He would gladly show himself
a friend in due season, and even submit to
some moderate sacrifices in the sacred cause of
friendship.

Moray's answer was equally cool and extremely
civil. When trouble softens before
it hardens us, we are apt to hope against hope

for fervent and active sympathy. But after
all, Winstanley had said as much as might
have been expected : with his ordinary penetration
preternaturally sharpened, he had followed
the conflicting workings of the other
man's mind, and if he gave him little gratitude,
he bore him no malice. He bowed and
smiled a little bitterly ; and then, quietly rising
to open the door, he threw it back for his
guests to pass out. Miss Winstanley, as the
lady, ought, of course, to have gone first. But
though, unlike her friend Grace, she was by
no means much devoted to dogs, she had
stooped to pat the black retriever that lay
stretched on the hearth-rug, and was playing
with the fringes of her silken ears ; while
the gentlemen, who saw that their host was
impatient, did not stand on the order of
their going, but evacuated the dining-room
promptly.

Glenconan was impatient : he thought Miss
Julia's flirtation with Finette very ill-timed.
He had never liked the young lady much ;
he had deemed her both artificial and worldly,
and had it not been for his confidence in
Grace, would have wished his daughter a

better companion. Consequently, being supremely
indifferent to Miss Winstanley's
opinion or feelings, lie had hardly deigned
her a look while telling his story. If he had
looked, he would have seen that the girl was
profoundly impressed. Worldly as she really
was, she was all the less inclined to make light
of the catastrophe. Appreciating profoundly,
like Jack Enables, all Moray was losing, she
could admire the manliness with which he
had borne himself; and putting herself in
his daughter's position, she felt sincerely
for Grace. Perhaps she may have welcomed
a rare chance of indulging in the pleasure of
genuine emotion ; and she was desirous, besides,
of making atonement for some shortcomings
in her father's speech. At all events,
when she raised her head there were real tears
in her eyes, and Moray was both touched and
taken aback. For once the strong and ready
man had not a single word to say ; and the
girl who was generally so glib seemed to be
equally embarrassed. But it is the woman in
such circumstances who first finds her tongue ;
and once she had broken the ice, Miss Winstanley
felt no further difficulty. She spoke

with a feeling to which Moray had believed
her a stranger. Though her voice trembled
she was voluble enough ; and by frankly
owning to her faults, she took him on his
weak side. After somehow expressing her
sorrow and her surprise, she went on —

But can you guess what selfishly troubles
me the most in all this ? It is, that Grace
should never have thought me worthy of her
confidence — unless, indeed, you had forbidden
her to speak. It would have been so natural
to seek comfort from the only woman under
your roof, and one who had been living for
weeks in her companionship. Don't think
that I blame her, sir," she added quickly,
seeing that he was about to interrupt and to
defend his daughter. "It is myself I reproach,
and I reproach myself bitterly. She
thought I had no heart and no feelings, and,
very likely, she was so far right ; yet I surely
have a heart somewhere, though I have often
doubted."

You need doubt it as little as I do," said
Moray, kindly, laying his hand on her
shoulder ; " and I ought to be a judge in
those matters," he added, with a smile. " The

truth is, I knew as little of my misfortunes as
you."

Thank you, sir," said Julia, and she seized
both his hands in hers. " You don't know
how happy you make me ; and if you would
only think of me for one moment as Grace,
you might give me courage to speak freely."

"Speak freely, then, by all means, my dear.
I am sure anything you say can only please
me."

Well, sir, all I wish to say is this, that
you must not shake us off — me and my father.
Had he been alone with you — had those other
men not been in the room — I know he would
have spoken very differently. He is rich ;
he knows the world well. I am sure I am
blundering, but you have promised not to be
offended. What I mean is, that I am certain
he intends you to count upon him, as I hope
Grace will forget the past, and learn to lean
upon me as a sister. You will try to persuade
her, won't you, sir ? "

Moray's constancy had been proof to the
cold reception of his news, but it was shaken
by this genuine and unexpected outburst.
He was very grateful to Miss Winstanley for

convincing him that cynicism was to be made
difficult, or impossible.

Never mind now about your father, or
what he or anybody else may do for us — we
shall have time enough to think about all
that. But when either you or I tell Grace
what has passed between us, I am sure she
will agree with me that our losses may prove
to be gains. You have made me cheerful,
if not happy, my dear, if that is any comfort
to you ; and now, if you mean to please
me, you must dry your eyes and let me
go." '

"And you will not misunderstand my
father," she added, pleadingly, laying a ringer
on his arm. " If I might tell you all, I can
read him so clearly."

"And so can I, believe me," rejoined
Moray, with a smile. Then stretching his
conscience slightly, he went on — " I should
have spoken precisely as he spoke in similar
circumstances. Neither of us is quite so
young as you, and we have long lost the
freshness of your feelings — worse luck. But
all the same, I envy and understand them."
And then he did what that morning he would

never have dreamed of doing, and pressed a
fatherly kiss on her forehead.

I may almost say that Julia Winstanley felt
a transformed girl, as he left her standing on
the rug over the impassable Finette, who, like
a true cynical philosopher, had assisted at the
interview, without even one approving wag of
the tail. That rush of warm natural feeling
might have changed the currents of her life.
She had indulged in the luxury of affectionate
sympathy, and was rewarded by knowing that
it was a luxury indeed. And it was remarkable
that the indulgence of unselfishness led
on to ideas of self-sacrifice, though it may be
true that they did not cost her very much.
She had never been really in love with Jack
Enables ; she had never acknowledged to
herself that she had more than a liking for
him. But considering that he had been the
adopted son of the house — that circumstances
had brought him into perpetual contact with
her, — it was naturally somewhat irritating to
her vanity that he had persisted in being
constant to Grace. She had seen that any of
his flirtations with herself had been platonic,
and she had rather resented it. She had

never known exactly what to make of him.
Being young and ardent, he was naturally ambitious
; and though he might regard money
as merely making stepping-stones for his advance,
he seemed to be as keenly set upon
money-getting as her father. That he should
have stuck to his attachment to his cousin,
who was likewise the heiress to her father's
wealth, was only consistent. But how might
he behave now that Grace was suddenly beggared
? She had a sinister suspicion that he
might turn towards herself, in which case she
would have scorned and summarily rejected
him. She would never have consented to be
married for her money, by a man who had
been proof to her charms while he could do
better. And in any case, not having too
high an opinion of the masculine nature, she
thought that Jack might make a satisfactory
enough husband, if once fairly wedded to a
wife who had many fascinations. Now he
was relatively rich, and had brilliant prospects
before him. So Miss Winstanley loyally resolved
that it should not be her fault if he
were not retained in his allegiance to his
cousin. Then the proud Mr Moray might

accept from a son-in-law and a daughter the
assistance he would reject from anybody else.
Having come to that comfortable conclusion,
she remembered it was time that she left the
dining-room.

CHAPTER XXIII.

JACK DRIFTS TOWARDS MATRIMONY.

It was an odd instance of the irony of circumstances
that Jack Enables and Miss Julia
Winstanley, having reached an identical conclusion
by very different roads, should fall
literally into each other's arms as their
thoughts had converged. Jack, coming back
to the house, had made a rush for the diningroom
to ring for the cold meat and the bread
and cheese, since before facing his uncle he
felt that he needed fortifying. Opening the
door, he found himself face to face with the
young lady, who already had her hand on the
handle.

Miss Winstanley ! " he ejaculated, with
some astonishment ; and she set his surprise
down to a guilty conscience.

Yes, Mr Enables," she answered, gravely,

we have just been hearing very sail news
from your uncle."

Now Jack, contrary to her surmises, was
rather pleased to happen upon her than otherwise.
He was full of all he meant to say to
Mr Moray : in his rapid walk to the house he
had been thinking of little but his cousin ;
and in the consciousness that Miss Winstanley
might possibly have misunderstood him lately,
he was anxious to burn his boats and put
everything on the most straightforward footing.
He would feel his way as to offering
himself for Grace, but in any case he must be
free of any arriere-pensee. Nevertheless, and
until the way was felt, he had no idea of taking
anybody unnecessarily into his confidence.
So he said nothing, and waited for her to
speak on. Then, still under the influence of
her recent emotion, she spoke on very strongly.
Jack, at that moment all glowing with health
as he was after his exercise, seemed to shrink
up and shrivel in her eyes. She imagined
him embarrassed as to transferring his " love,"
and she meditated upon whited sepulchres and
the miserable weaknesses of masculine humanity
like a feminine Thomas a Kempis. Sofar

as she was concerned, there should be no
further misunderstanding; yet she felt constrained
to temporise for Grace's sake.

We have been hearing very sad news, and
I need not say how grieved we have been for
Grace and your uncle. How I wish I were in
your place ! "

In my place, Miss Winstanley ! what can
you mean ? "

My meaning is plain enough. If I were in
your place, I should have the claim of relationship.
If I were in your place, I should go to
Mr Moray and force upon him, in the rights
of relationship, what he would spurn were it
offered as a kindness. And if I were in your
place," she went on, looking straight into his
eyes, " I think I should take advantage of
your double relationship with your cousin,
and plead for her accepting the protection
which she doubly needs in her isolation."

Jack stared in amazement. Miss Winstanley
with her passionate eloquence was a new revelation
to him, and perhaps not altogether
a pleasant one. To have one exceedingly
pretty girl, to whom he had necessarily and
as mere matter of civility paid certain slight

VOL. II. L

attentions, urging him frankly and with no
semblance of disguise to go and offer marriage
to another beauty, was altogether a new and
startling experience. However, as his aspirations
coincided with her orders, there was
nothing more to be said. No doubt, honesty
was the best policy ; and as she showed herself
so absolutely indifferent, she should have no
reason to complain of any want of frankness.

I should never have dreamed of troubling
you in this matter, Miss Winstanley ; though
I am sure we shall always be the best of
friends. I had no notion you took so deep
an interest in my future. But as you have
condescended to interest yourself, and as my
uncle has confided his own affairs to you, all
I have to say is, that it rests with Grace and
with her father how far they may permit me
to sink or swim with them. My dearest ambition
is to make her my wife ; though I need
hardly say, that I tell you that in strict confidence."


The frank expression of feeling took Miss
Winstanley likewise by surprise : we dare not
say whether the surprise was entirely agreeable.
Assuredly she liked Jack none the

worse for the trace of pique which gave point
to his candour. At any rate, with perfect
composure, and in the good-fellowship that
had always existed between them, she took his
hand as she had taken Mr Moray's.

I cannot tell you what pleasure you have
given me, for you may help them if anybody
can. And though it may seem presumption
to say so, perhaps I may be of some use in
promoting your wishes. Grace is not much
given to confidences ; but surely a girl will
talk in those circumstances, if she feels pretty
certain of sympathy. And I think, after the
conversation I have had with Glenconan, that
she may feel more affectionately towards me
than she has ever felt before."

Whereupon Miss Winstanley did leave the
dining-room at last; and Mr Enables, violently
ringing the bell, sat down to a cold
sirloin with a capital appetite. The next tack
in his course so far was all plain sailing : he
felt committed to a step he had only contemplated
; and when he placed himself unreservedly
at his uncle's disposition, it should
be with the intimation that his dearest desire
was to obtain the hand of his cousin. It was

decidedly his custom to be preoccupied by a
single idea at a time ; and Leslie's rivalry,
with his own gratitude, were dismissed as
entirely as if he had never gone hunting the
wild goats at Lochrosque, or as if the man who
had saved him lay buried at Tom-na-hourich.

Moray had been brought into more charity
with his fellow-creatures by the passionate
outburst of the worldly Miss Win Stanley.
After that, it seemed blasphemy to doubt of
the love and care of an omnipotent Providence,
which might manifest itself unexpectedly in
the least likely quarters. But all the more,
he looked forward to the meeting with Jack,
when Jack should have learned the misfortune
that had lighted upon him. He had
loved the lad for his spirited impulses ; he had
marked his selfishness, or rather his self-absorption,
but he had never doubted his sincerity;
and now his young friend would be
brought to the test. From Jack, as from
everybody else, Moray was determined to
accept nothing but goodwill ; but still it would
be a sad addition to his troubles should Jack
prove as guardedly sympathetic as old Winstanley.
He had withdrawn to the solitude

of his den : he knew his nephew in common
decency must come to him ; and in all the
distraction of his roving thoughts, he sat
listening for the boy's foot in the passage.
The well-known footfall came in due course,
and then there followed the rap at the door.
The strong man was so overstrained, so painfully
excited, that he scarcely dared to lookup
when he called out, " Come in." But in
another instant his anxiety was relieved. His
hand was silently grasped with a fervent pressure
; and Jack, drawing a chair towards his,
sat down affectionately beside him. Come
what might, he was delighted to know that
the nephew he had loved the best was of
metal as true as the other.

So you have heard all about it, Jack? Eh?"
I have heard it ; and by what I may calla
happy accident, I have heard it all from my
cousin. I chanced to meet her as I was
hurrying home to lunch ; and will you think
me. very heartless if I say that the bad news
have affected me less than I expected — hardly
spoiled my appetite ? "

I don't know why they should, I am sure,"
rejoined Mr Moray. In other circumstances

he might have been disappointed, but he still
felt the warm pressure of his nephew's fingers,
and he guessed already whither Jack was
tending.

"And you will let me tell you why they
should not — though, I think, you might meet
me half-way, and spare me some little embarrassment."


How do you think Grace takes it ? " demanded
Moray, somewhat irrelevantly.

Just as I should have expected. She is a
noble girl, and a very sensible girl besides.
Of course, her chief trouble is for you ; and I
believe she has such faith in your generosity
of sentiment, that she feels that matters might
have been very much worse."

"On my generosity? You speak in parables,
Master Jack. It seems to me that forever
and a day, perhaps the practice of generosity
will be far beyond my reach."

You don't think that, sir. You know that
if you were next door to a pauper to-morrow
you would be liberal still with your coppers,
because you cannot possibly be otherwise.
But Grace, as I fancy, thinks with me, that
the real proof of generosity with a man like

you is in consenting to lay yourself under
something like obligations. Not, of course,
that there would be obligations really," added
Jack, blushing and stammering.

So you two have been conspiring together,"
said Moray, his face lightening up ; " and as
it would appear that I am to be the victim of
your machinations, I confess I am curious to
hear what your objects are."

Oh, for that matter, I am only anxious to
return good for evil ; and I have no wish to
keep any of my secrets from you. You know
that no young fellow in this world has ever
had more luck than I, since the day the letter
came to me here with the announcement of
my legacy. Without being able to take the
slightest credit to myself, I have tumbled out
of one good thing into another. I made friends
with Winstanley on that reef in the Atlantic ;
I have put my money and his credit out to
something more than usury, since it is invested
in all manner of speculations that are steadily
looking up ; through him I have formed a
number of useful connections ; and I have
been pitchforks into that place of private
secretary, where I hold winning cards if I only

play them decently, with lots of trumps, and
possibly an honour or two. Then, by way of
capping it all, came that telegram the other
day, which told me we had really struck oil in
that American mine. I have ready money in
hand, to say nothing of splendid contingencies ;
and when the opening comes, I am ready to
cut into the game of politics with a sufficiency
of fortune to back me."

I know you have done exceedingly well
for yourself, and no doubt you have had a
most unusual run of good fortune. But such
runs of fortune do not come to fools, and you
are over-modest, Master Jack, in ignoring your
own merits."

Very well, my dear uncle, have it your
own way ; all the more, that I wish you to
think well of my prospects. I have a superstition
against counting chickens before they
are hatched, but nevertheless you must allow
that I am doing well in the poultry line."

I never denied it. Quite the reverse."

And now," said Jack, talking very quick,
do you remember whence all my prosperity
dates ? From the day you called me into this
room here as a penniless young scapegrace,

and put your purse and your whole interest
at my disposal. Even then I knew you were
a man who would perform more than you
promised ; and I felt that if you sent me out
to the East my future was secured, should I
only keep steady."

You didn't go. And even if you had gone,
I offered you nothing more than introductions."


I said that you promised less than you
would have performed. The long and the
short of it is, without any beating about the
bush, you treated me that day like a father,
and spoke far more considerately than most
fathers would have done. And if I did not
go, I told you the reason ; and when I ventured
to show you all that was in my heart,
and even suggested my being much more your
son than you had intended, you did not resent
my impudence by turning me ignominiously
out of doors. Nay, you only repeated your
generous offer ; and if that does not give mea
claim upon you now, I don't know what
should. Of course, you know why I have
been blowing my own trumpet. If I remind
you how well I stand in a worldly point of

view, it is to show you that there is enough
and to spare for us all ; so that we may share
without scruple anything I have to offer. I
am asking a great thing ; but then, surely, I
have strong claims on you."

Moray's pale face beamed with pleasure.

At any rate, my dear boy, you have done
me a world of good. If I have learned nothing
else, I have learned this forenoon how
easily the sting may be taken out of money
troubles. There is that girl, Julia Instantly,
behaving like a trump : she has been
heaping coals of fire upon my head ; for, to
my shame be it said, I never greatly took
to her. As for you, you have warmed my
heart ; but, to be sure, for you it has always
beat very kindly."

"Then we understand each other," exclaimed
Jack, with delight ; and, to do him
justice, he had never been so grateful before,
for the prosperity which put it in his power
to be his uncle's benefactor. After all, with
an average share of faults, there was certainly
a deal of good in Mr Enables.

Softly, my boy, softly," said Moray ;
there can be no possible misunderstanding

between us for the future — you may be sure
of that. But as for accepting what you offer
so generously, that is another thing. To begin
with, I fear I am dipped so deep, that
I should only be dragging you into the abyss
along with me."

I don't know how that may be," rejoined
Jack, changing all at once into the cool man
of business. " But, in any case, I have been
talking things over with Grace, who seems
to have the family talents for business. I
never contemplated this new partnership of
ours commencing till the wretched bank business
has been sifted to the bottom, and you
have a discharge in full from all your liabilities.
Strange it seems," added Jack, musingly,
" that such a misfortune should fall
on a man like you ; and that a fortune,
honourably made and nobly spent, should be
swept away by an accident so cruelly iniquitous."


"It is a hard case ; but as for being iniquitous
— would it surprise you to hear that
if I have not been actually expecting something
of the kind, at any rate my conscience
protests against my daring to say it is undeserved

? Do you remember watching meas
we sat in the carriage on your first visit
to Glenconan? You saw something in the
expression of my face that puzzled you — did
you not ? "

"Well, now that you speak of it," said
Jack, rather taken aback. To tell the truth,
he had forgotten all about it, nor, for the
moment, had he the faintest idea what his
uncle might be driving at.

I think I should like to tell you what
it was that troubled me then. You won't
take it amiss if I say. that the warning maybe
useful ; for we are much of the same turn
of mind, which is the reason, no doubt, why
I have always been drawn to you."

Then Moray told the story of his mental
anxieties, pretty much as he had told it once
before to Leslie. Only now he had the opportunity
of pointing it with the moral, that
this misfortune might be meant as merited
retribution. But Mr Enables, as may well
be supposed, listened in a very different spirit
from Leslie. As a warning, he did not take
the narrative at all amiss, nor had he the
slightest intention of laying it to heart. He

thought he might look back upon life with
an easy mind, if he had nothing worse to
reproach himself with than Moray. Had not
his uncle said that these regrets had been
haunting him for long, he would have thought
his mind must have been shaken by recent
trouble. What struck him most forcibly was
the evidence of weakness in a man he had
always regarded as so strong : it was strange
that his hero should actually have been reproaching
himself with those daring and successful
combinations for which he had most
admired him. And, on the spur of the moment,
he spoke of such sensibilities with
something that sounded very like contempt ;
though, on the other hand, he was so eloquent
in his admiration, that Moray was far
from being offended. He spoke as ninety-nine
men in a hundred might have spoken,
and Moray thought rather sadly that the
comfort had come too late. " I may have
been a fool to worry myself with fanciful
regrets ; but in that case it will be the harder
to see Glenconan go from me." Then expressing
the conclusion of his thoughts aloud,
he said, " And if sin there were, it seems

hard, in any case, that the sin should be
visited on my innocent child."

Oh, so far as that goes," broke in Jack,
who welcomed the opening he had been
watching for — " so far as that goes, I make
bold to say that you may make your mind
perfectly easy. There are two things that lie
near to your heart. You wish Grace to be
independent ; you would be glad to save
Glenconan for her. If a girl is too rich, you
know as well as I that she may be married to
misery for her money and not for herself.
There are heartless scoundrels stalking about
looking out for heiresses whose substance they
mean to devour ; and though it is difficult to
imagine a ruffian who could behave badly to
Grace, there is no fathoming the depths of
human depravity. Now, you see, as we have
settled things," he went on, confidentially,
Grace will be no heiress — not to speak of —
but she will, nevertheless, be very comfortably
off; and we can easily keep the estate in the
family, though it may come cheaper to raise
a mortgage on it in the meantime."

An odd idea you have of a girl's independence
! " was the thought in Moray's mind ;

but he dared not speak it out. For Jack, who
was so ready with his replies to all objections,
had assuredly an answer cut and dry to that
one. As he would not speak, Jack did.

You won't help me, sir, so I must help
myself. As I said a little while ago, it is
no use beating about the bush, so here goes.
Give me leave to speak to my cousin — to beg
and entreat her to become my wife. Her
answer, whether favourable or the reverse, can
make no difference in our understanding."

No understanding," interpolated Moray.

Her answer will make no difference in my
resolutions, then, and I trust everything to
time and your sense of justice. I cannot dare
to hope she will say ' yes.' But if it should
chance so, then, as your son-in-law, I shall
take the liberty of arranging the settlements
without any reference to you."

Moray was more moved by Jack's generosity
than by his offhand eloquence. Honestly,
should it please Grace, the marriage
seemed an admirable idea. If he had the
good luck to win the girl for his wife, his
nephew gained more than he gave. But at
the same time he remembered his obligations

to another stanch friend and faithful counsellor.
Jack might win the prize if he could,
but Leslie should have no wrong.

"Speak to your cousin, by all means. If
she does say ' yes,' you shall have my cordial
approval. And in saying so much, I am
certain you will not suspect me of interested
motives. If you and Grace arrange to pull
comfortably together, I shall be off to the
East again, and paddle my own canoe. Nay,
never mind protesting in the meantime," he
said, in answer to Jack's gesture of deprecation.
"You shall not find me hard to deal
with. But as I have recalled certain circumstances
to your recollection already, I must
tax your memory again. You remember, when
you made something like a similar proposal
once before, I told you that you and Ralph
Leslie should both have fair play."

Jack's animated face blanched all over. For
these two or three exciting hours he had forgotten
the existence of Ralph Leslie, and now
the reminder was disagreeable as might be.
It chilled all his fervour ; it threatened to dissipate
all his dreams. If Grace were really
attached to Leslie, she would certainly say

no " instead of " yes." Even if Grace felt
doubtful, and Leslie were really in love with
her — he suspected something of the earnestness
of Leslie's nature — could he, in common
gratitude, in common honour, abuse his accidental
advantages to make his benefactor
miserable ? Here was an ugly complication
with a vengeance. Moray understood all that
was passing in the young man's mind, and
again his affections inclined to his favourite.
It seemed fated that Jack should always behave
in a way that won his liking as well as
his esteem.

My dear boy, the decision rests with
Grace, and the common wish of all of us is
that she should choose for her own happiness.
Leslie is in love with her — that you must have
known. So are you. I should willingly welcome
either of you for a son-in-law. I love
Ralph as much as I respect him : yet I frankly
tell you that if I were a marriageable young
woman, I think I should prefer you for a
husband. You may go and inquire, if you
like, whether Grace agrees with me, and I
assure you I shall be anxious to hear how
you speed."

VOL. II. M

CHAPTEK XXIV.

JACK GETS HIS ANSWER.

Poor Jack was in a sad quandary. All his
better feelings were in the ascendant, but
unfortunately those better feelings, fought
against each other, and sophistry was enlisted
on the more selfish side. Moray's penetration
confirmed what he knew by his own inner
consciousness — namely, that Leslie was in
love with Grace. And if Leslie loved at all,
Jack felt sure that he loved profoundly and
passionately : it was a passion that would
possibly colour all his life. As for himself,
had it not been for Leslie, he would not have
been there cogitating at that moment ; and sofar
as any rivalry of his was concerned, Leslie
might have walked over the course. But then,
on the other hand, he had lived and he had
prospered : that he was there, was a fact there

was no Q-ettino; over. In this life we must
take things as we find them, and make the
best of the most untoward circumstances. He
loved his cousin at least as much as Leslie
loved her, though even in those transports of
his the thought would still come, that he
might console himself more easily than Leslie
for a rejection. He loved his cousin as much
as Leslie loved her, and it was with his cousin
that the decision must rest. If she preferred
him, as was possible, she would say so more
or less frankly, and in that case it would be
cruelty to cross her affections. Then, in a
worldly point of view, he was undoubtedly
the more eligible suitor. Leslie had but a
small fixed income at best ; and though poetry
might bring him fame, it could scarcely lead
on to lucre. While as Grace's husband, with
his own elastic prospects, he must have a very
great deal in his power. Moray might consent
to take from a son-in-law what he would never
accept from anybody else. If he would not
bring himself to condescend to pecuniary assistance,
he might consent to avail himself of
political influence. By the interest of Lord
Wrekin, or somebody else, Jack thought he

might get his uncle something good in the
colonies. It would be no job. Moray knew
the East thoroughly ; he had all the qualities
of an able administrator : under any Government,
whether Radical or Conservative, surely
the thing might be managed. At all events,
matters must be settled somehow, for, above
all things, he detested suspense. Grace should
either put him out of his misery, as he was
pleased to phrase it, or assure him that she
was willing to make him happy. He determined,
if possible, to get the interview over
at once ; but how to have a tete-astute was the
question. After wandering alone about the
woods through the morning — after not making
her appearance as usual at lunch, — Grace
would feel doubly bound to do the civil to Miss
Winstanley in the afternoon. In any case,
and on the off-chance of some arrangement,
he would look into the drawing-room, though,
disinclined for conversation.

The stars in their courses fought in his favour,
and Miss Winstanley conspired with the celestial
bodies. She and her father, with Grace,
were the only occupants of the drawing-room.
Julia was as quick as Grace to remark Mr Enables's

preoccupation, and she readily found
an excuse for removing her father from the
room. Then as Jack was pulling himself together
for a plunge into his subject, to his
astonishment Grace anticipated him.

I am so glad to have you alone for an
instant, Jack. Indeed I had thought of writing
you a note, only I could not send it by a
servant. Will you meet me an hour hence at
the seat by the waterfall, and you won't mind
waiting if I should be detained ? Say ' yes '
quickly, for there is somebody coming."

Jack looked yes, if he did not say it. The
M'Claverty burst into the room like a modified
Highland hurricane, only that the chief
was brimming over with good-humour, and
meant no mischief. He had shaken off his
young hostess's troubles already, as a water-spaniel
coming out of the water throws the
showers of spray from his coat. Grace, with
the hypocrisy instinctive to the best of women,
had already taken a piece of worsted-work into
her hands, and was lending a seemingly attentive
ear to some meaningless remark of the
intruder. Jack, who was in no mood to stand
on ceremony, made a bolt of it, slamming the

door behind him. Quick-witted as he was, he
needed time to think ; yet he felt that his
cousin's frankness boded no good to him.
She's not the kind of girl to throw herself
into any man's arms ; and if she were, mine
would be paralysed : there is nothing I loathe
like a willing woman. She has seen her
father ; she has heard what I said to him ;
and she is resolved that I shall labour under
no misconceptions."

Jack had an hour to think, and he made the
most of a good part of it. He was one of those
men who momentarily crave for a thing when
they once have set their heart upon it ; who
desire it doubly when there are difficulties in
the way ; and whose desire turns to a passion
when their object threatens to. elude them.
Grace had never seemed to him more lovable.
Her beauty had been heightened by grief and
agitation ; there was a far-away, wistful lookin
her eyes which profoundly touched all that
was impressionable in him ; moreover, he was
quite able to appreciate her higher and more
estimable qualities. I need not repeat that he
set a due value on money, and he would have
shrunk from love in a cottage, unless it were

a cottage of gentility." He knew himself
well enough to be sure that he was never
made to live in hugger-mugger fashion and
cater for a hungry brood. In such circumstances
he must have fretted in company of
the best woman in the world, and love would
most likely fly out of the window. But on
the other hand, any amount of fortune without
love would have been far too dearly purchased
; and the luxury of mating prudently
with a penniless bride was one he felt to be
well within his reach. In his softened mood
he thought how, with a husband's opportunities,
he might .endear himself to the girl who
inclined to him already. If he could only win
her to a word of assent from the heart, their
marriage might be the entrance to an earthly
paradise. He thought, too, how Grace in her
gentle dignity would do the honours of a handsome
and hospitable home. How proud he
would be of the bright girl-matron, whose portrait
should smile from the panel above the diningroom
chimney piece. Who should paint
her ? Should it be Leighton or Millais, or some
rising artist of genius, who should ? Confound
it ! there he was dreaming as usual, and

he knew, or at least he more than suspected,
that the word of assent would never be won.
Why not ? Ah ! there was the rub. If obstacle
there was, the obstacle was Leslie. It
was his practice to clear obstacles away, by
fair means or by foul ; and the thought that
naturally occurred to him was how to clear
Leslie out of his path.

Then came an equally natural revulsion of
feeling. He hated himself ; he shook himself
in horror : to all intents and purposes he was
a murderer, if not a thief; for if Grace had
really given herself to Leslie, he contemplated
stealing her away. And to this man whom
he meant to wrong and rob he had vowed
eternal gratitude. Looking up at those wild
Highland hills, that day above Lochrosque
came vividly back to his memory. He shuddered
again as he recalled his feelings when
his foot had failed him, when his brain was
dizzy, when there seemed nothing between the
strong young life and eternity. He remembered
how he had thought of being summoned
to the account for which he had never found
time for preparation. And then, when all
appeared to be doubly over, Leslie had voluntarily

exposed himself to all that he dreaded.
He had said little in the way of gratitude after
that daring rescue and marvellous escape, but
if he said little it was only because he felt so
much. He was content to be silenced by
misplaced mauvaise honte, because he was
assured that his preserver entered into his
feelings. But therefore, in love and honour
he was doubly bound by that tacit compact.
Now the occasion was offering duly to redeem
his pledge ; nor could he have hoped for such
a chance of clearing off old scores. If needful,
he should rise to a sublime height of self-sacrifice
; for he really imagined at the moment
that the act of resignation might entail
upon him something like — lifelong suffering.
He altogether forgot that he would be in noway
a free agent, in that it was Grace who
must really decide the matter, according to
the state of her affections. But as he did
forget the fact most entirely, we may give
him equal credit for his self-denial. All the
same, in his detestation of suspense he was
eager to know the best and the worst of
it ; and accordingly, after some four-and-flfty
minutes of rapt meditation, he anticipated

the tryst with his cousin by a quarter of an
hour.

He was kept waiting and gnawing his heart
for nearly half an hour longer ; and w T hen he
did see Grace ascending the path, his hopes
sank even lower than they had fallen already.
No amount of mere maiden diffidence could
explain the lingering pace of those light feet,
and that listless and preoccupied gait. Had
she been on her way to make a waiting lover
happy, the shy timidity must have been buoyantly
elastic. Her eyes, when she raised them
to his, were full of a sad sympathy ; and as he
saw how deeply she believed him to be in love,
he felt more passionately and desperately in
love with her than ever.

For a minute or more both were silent, and
the silence began to become painfully embarrassing.
Jack, whose manliness was unimpeachable,
felt bound in his chivalry to be the
first to break it. Interpreted by the expression
of her face, it had rung the knell of his
hopes as clearly as any words could have
done ; and possibly he might have shown
more delicacy of feeling had he taken it for
his answer, and spoken on the strength of it.

But when it is a case of parting with our
cherished hopes or illusions, we are slow to
fling the haft after the blade ; and it was one
of Jack's fundamental principles never to
throw away a chance. Besides, although he
was showing himself most practically disinterested,
it was not in his nature to rise to
those refined heights of generosity of which
Kalph might have been capable. If he could
not win his cousin and her love, at least byway
of compensation he would have as much
gratitude as she could give him. And that
essential difference in the character of the two
men may explain her preference for the one
over the other.

Most men in the circumstances, even if
they had delivered their minds, would have
done so as the depressed or despairing lover.
Jack did not. He began by affecting the
modest confidence he did not feel ; and as he
fairly warmed to what would otherwise have
been a pleasant task, he pressed his suit with
fire and fervour. And the girl felt more sorry
for him than before, as he spoke much of love
and little of money. Money, indeed, he could
not altogether pass over ; but he spoke lightly

of his longing to be able to help her father
at the slightest possible sacrifice to Moray's
pride.

It may all come so naturally and so easily,
Grace. Surely he will accept anything from
you ; and if you will only take me, he cannot
make distinctions between his children. You
know how fervently I have loved you from
the very first. You know that nothing could
have sealed my lips but the sense that I had
nothing, while you were an heiress. You
know — you must have known — that as I began
to feel my feet, the ambition of winning
you made each step a triumph. I counted
the months before I dared speak, and the
months were passing so slowly yet so quickly.
May heaven forgive me for it ! but when I
heard of your ruin, I believe at first it
brought me more happiness than sorrow. I
am confoundedly selfish," he interpolated,
with penitent self-conviction. " And now, if
you cannot speak to me as I could wish, the
punishment of my selfishness will be greater
than I can bear. But you cannot, surely,
have the heart to throw me back on my worse
self, and doom me to a life of selfish isolation ?

My future, for weal or woe, as for good or evil,
is in your hands ; and my fate is hanging on
what you have to say to me."

Jack paused to draw breath, and indeed it
was high time. He had talked himself into
profound self-conviction, and the pleading eloquence
of his eyes expressed as much. As for
Grace, she had never doubted him ; and for
once, all womanly as she was, she regretted
the power of her charms. Had Leslie ever
spoken as Jack had clone — had he ever breathed
a word on which she could found a promise of
fidelity, — her course would have been clear,
however painful. As it was, she hesitated ;
and as Jack saw her hesitation, his hopes revived.
After all, he might be mistaken ; and
so once more, and this time with an easier
conscience, he opened again the flood-gates of
his eloquence. If Grace's hesitation gave him
hope, he made a fatal mistake. As he talked
on, she kindly listened, for she knew all he
had to say. She was imagining what would
be their future if she spoke the irrevocable
"yes." And in her rapid self-searching, she
as rapidly decided that she would do foul injustice
to him as to herself. Leslie had never

spoken, it was true, but for reasons similar to
those that had kept Jack silent. She trusted
his sincerity as she trusted herself, and she felt
that he had made his meaning unmistakable.
She could not change her heart from an impulse
of kindness — not even because the
change might be for the benefit of her father
and she knew that her heart was given to
Leslie beyond recall. It was through his
family that hers had been indirectly brought
to grief, and what must he think of her if she
threw him over in the circumstances ? It washer
melancholy lot to have to choose between
two devoted lovers ; and she must give pain
to one or the other. But there could be no
further doubt as to the decision. And as she
came to that conclusion, her dimpled chin and
her under lip took something of her father's
firmness ; and Jack, whose eyes were fixed on
her face, felt, with a tremor, that it was allover.
Then his own resolution was taken with
his habitual promptitude. His hopes were
already things of the past, and he would have
leisure enough to make any moan over them.
Now he must grasp the fleeting opportunity,
and rise at once to the role of the generous.

As Grace, all in a tremble, was going to speak,
he took the words out of her mouth : —

I have my answer, and I will spare you
the pain of speaking it. I reverence you enough
to know that if I were to talk on for hours, I
could not bring you to change your decision.
Nor do I desire it, things being as they are.
I am not one of those who would strive to win
my wife's heart after marriage — least of all,
when I have to contend with such a rival as
Leslie. Forgive me," he added hastily, as he
saw his cousin flush up ; " you may well pardon
me in the circumstances, and I have no
thought to give to the proprieties — even to
the delicacies. But I must win free pardon
by frank confession ; and for days, for months
past, my doubts and fears have all been excited
by a single man."

Grace could say nothing. She could not
confess an attachment which had never been
avowed.

Jack, with his quick wits preternaturally
sharpened, again came to help her out of her
embarrassment. She could almost have wished
that her affections had been free, that she might
have given them to him frankly and gratefully.

He took her hand ; and in the certainty
that he understood her, she left it in
his, and softly returned the pressure.

Not another word — don't say another
word ; we are friends as we are cousins, are we
not ? and friends we shall ever continue. Or
rather, we must remain brother and sister ; I
have a right to claim as much as that. But
be sure I shall ask no question which you
might find it difficult to answer. Remember
that I owe my life to somebody, and in time
that remembrance must bring me consolation.
And now," he went on, with a touch of bitterness,
"if I must not speak of love, we may
talk of business. You feel that you owe me
something, do you not ? For after all, I offered
you all I have to offer, and you have struck a
blow in return you would gladly have spared
me."

You are the most lovable, the most generous
of men, Jack ! " exclaimed Grace, with a
flood of tears that at last found vent.

For heaven's sake, don't break down like
that ! " expostulated Jack, piteously, "or I
shall have to follow suit ; and it is a sorrow I
dare not console you under. And do not say

I am the most lovable of men," he said, as he
tried to smile, "for I would still believe in
your truth if I cannot have your affection.
But I have yet another favour to demand, and
you can be in no mood for refusing."

In her certainty as to what that favour was,
Grace was again forced to remain silent.

"You must promise me for your father's
sake, as for mine, that this shall make no difference
as to money matters. You must promise
that you will labour heart and soul to
give me the poor comfort of being able to help
you out of these troubles of yours. And for
Leslie's sake as well, for you know I owe him
this troublesome life of mine."

Perhaps Grace showed herself as generous
as Jack, when, looking straight with her swimming
eyes into his, she drew a long breath and
said, " I promise." And by way of seal to the
pledge, she frankly tendered him her cheek,
and for a second time that day he took a
cousinly kiss, though in circumstances sadly
different.

VOL. II. N

CHAPTER XXV.

A HAPPY EXPLANATION.

Moray had hoped against hope that light
might break through the darkness ; but as
these first sad days went on, the clouds only
thickened around him. Seldom had there
been such a complete commercial disaster, —
not even on that memorable Black Monday in
the City, when the great " house at the
corner" collapsed. For in this case most of
the people concerned seemed to be not only
hit hard, but actually knocked over. The
great bulk of the shareholders were small
folks — shopkeepers or farmers — who had confidingly
invested their savings in the bank
shares. So the burden of the loss fell upon a
mere handful of men, who were certainly
believed to be extremely wealthy, but who
nevertheless could hardly do more than meet

their enormous engagements : while between
the two were a few gentlemen like Moray,
who were rich, though a long way from being
millionaires. And these seemed to be condemned
to the grinding suspense of not knowing
for months, or possibly for years, whether
they were doomed to be simply brought to the
brink of destitution or actually smashed up,
lock, stock, and barrel. That was the formula
in which Moray, who was a born sportsman,
summed up his melancholy prospects. And
meantime the clouds were thickening as his
daughter's future became more hopelessly
obscure. He had gone to Glasgow and to
Edinburgh, where he had met Leslie, and
where they had repeatedly "interviewed" the
official liquidators. These gentlemen were
civil, and even courteously sympathetic, to the
wealthy Highland laird, as to the respected
young Lothian landowner who accompanied
him. But in the first place, their stock of
sympathy was almost overdrawn by the victims
who were filling the antechambers with
their wails. And in the next place, as Leslie
shrewdly suspected, they took a gratuitously
gloomy view of the situation. It was their

business and duty to be on the safe side, and
to secure each available shilling for the liquidation.
They had actually laid a temporary
embargo on the business of a flourishing provincial
bank, which had been let in for a few
of their shares by way of security for a small
advance. They estimated the contingencies
of calls at an absolutely indefinite quantity.
They shook their heads over the chances of
available assets from directors who had compromised
themselves by doubtful speculations,
and who might possibly be held legally liable
for all the debts of the bank. The sagacious
manager had made a bolt of it before the
warrants for his arrest were abroad ; and
although he had left the cash-books and the
ledgers behind him, it was more than possible
that he might have tampered with them
and falsified the accounts. In short, they
proved genuine Job's comforters ; and poor
Moray, who had been worried by anxieties and
want of sleep, chameleon-like took his colour
from their grim prognostications. Leslie, on
the contrary, rising to the occasion, showed a
practical sagacity which Jack Enables might
have envied. He asked shrewd questions ;

he drew deductions from hesitating and prevaricating
answers : and he came to the conclusion
that, so far as Moray was concerned,
things in the end might turn out to be far less
than hopeless.

Nevertheless, as the clouds kept thickening
over his prospects, the sense of oppression
weighing on Moray became wellnigh intolerable.
He was a man whose spirits rose to
clanger, and who was never more cheerful or
more buoyant than when playing some dangerous
game. Except that he had been much
in the habit of smiling in other circumstances,
it might have been said of him, as of the
Baron of Mortal, that

111 was the omen if lie smiled,
For 'twas in peril stern and wild."

Many a time he had carried his life in his
hand, feeling that it was on the point of slipping
through his fingers. He had been afloat
in Malay pross in cyclones, when the circling
hurricane had rent the sails into tatters, and
shivered the long tapering masts as they
dragged at the groaning decks. He had
crawled in the jungle-lair of the skulking
tiger, looking out for the glimmer of the green

eyes of the savage in act to spring. But
hitherto he had always faced his dangers in
the open, with the sense that the denouement
would be speedily decided. Now he felt as if
he were battened down beneath the hatches,
in a craft that was driving on to the coral-reefs
of a lee shore. He might drift clear of
the danger by a series of special providence,
and escape somehow by the skin of his teeth.
Or, on the other hand, he might be dragging
inevitably towards the breakers, and he could
not lift a finger to save himself. His impulse
was to escape from the deadlock upon any
terms, and to make another unhampered start
in life, even although he should start afresh
under the load of years and disappointments.

There Leslie's calm good sense was invaluable,
with the ascendancy he had gradually
established over the older and more energetic
man. After trying various arguments and
failing with them, he fell back upon one he
felt sure must be effective.

If you were lonely and childless, my dear
uncle, I should not venture to protest against
any decision of yours, however much I might
regret it. But you have Grace to consider as

well as yourself, and surely you have no right
to sacrifice her interests ? That suspense must
be intolerable to your energies, I can understand
; but we cannot choose the form of our
trials for ourselves : all we can do is to bear
them with cool and calculating resolution.
You are one of the bravest men I have ever
met ; and you know yourself what you would
say of a precipitate surrender in battle, when
the lives of those who were dearest to you
depended on prolonging the struggle."

As he spoke Leslie watched his uncle anxiously,
and he was less grieved than surprised
when the other incontinently flared up. Fiery
by temperament and irritable from his trials,
Moray burst out so strongly and so fiercely
that Leslie felt inclined to answer him in kind.
He coloured all over, and as he compressed his
lips he nearly bit them till the blood came.
Never, perhaps, had his habitual self-restraint
sent him through so severe an ordeal. Not
even when he had saved Enables on the rocks
above Lochroscjue had he resigned himself to
a self-sacrifice so heroic. But when, after a
few moments of silence, he returned the soft
answer that turneth away wrath, he knew

already that he had his reward. Moray's
nature was as generous as it was hot, and
already he repented his hasty speech. So he
fully appreciated the generosity of his nephew ;
and being the more eager to make reparation,
was more absolutely swayed than he might
otherwise have been.

"You are quite right," he went on; " you
can judge of things more coolly than I can.
And now show me that I have your forgiveness
by telling me what you recommend."

It seems to me," said Leslie, speaking
modestly but firmly, " that the path of duty
is plain. Considering the circumstances that
have brought you to unmerited ruin, you may
imagine what it costs me to say as much.
You must and will meet your engagements,
but you must resign yourself to wait and
learn what they actually are. If I thought
things desperate, I should advise differently.
But I don't. From what those liquidators
say, it is clear there are sundry chances in
your favour. The manager may be collared,
or may be pricked by his conscience — and
something may come of that. Then there is
that defaulting and absconding director, whose

property must be liable to the uttermost
farthing. He has been speculative, and has
locked up money, but possibly he may not
have been altogether foolish. He has been
dabbling in Colorado gold and Idaho silver,
and his hands may hold some trumps, as we
know was the case with Jack Enables. In
any case, your only course is to wait."

I suppose you are right, Ralph," sighed
Moray ; " but what is to be done in the
meantime ? All my property may be attached
by the creditors of the bank, and my conscience
could never suffer me to live on other
people. I should never digest my meals, and
each glass of wine would seem to choke me.
Then the suspense with the inactivity would
fret me to death, and each day as it dragged
by would be slow torture."

To that Leslie could answer nothing honestly.
Had he been in his uncle's place, he
would have suffered in the same way.

Moray resumed : " Yet if I did go to work
again, it would be a disheartening case of non
vobis. Is it not ' Eothen ' who says that
wounded spirits naturally tend to seek a
sanctuary in the East ? Well, I have more

practical reasons for going thither, and back
to the East I am determined to go. Yet it is
hard to face the separation from Grace, when
any good fortune that might be in reserve forme
would not be for her."

But you talk, sir," said Ralph, "as if you
were ruined already. Yet we have just agreed
that it is altogether uncertain, since otherwise
you might promptly liquidate and go free."

"True. But were you in my place, you
would be loath to draw another cheque on
your bankers. It might touch my honour
afterwards, putting slighter considerations out
of the question ; and you ought to know
better than any man, how a cas che conscience
has troubled me already."

I know it ; and you know how I felt and
spoke when you confided your anxieties to me.
Surely, for those very reasons, you may trust
me now. Well, it seems to me, on my soul
and conscience, that you are going too fast
and much too far. Your future is dark, unquestionably
; but I fancy it will be brighter
than you believe. You must wait and see.
Of course, in prudence as in honour, you are
bound to restrict your expenditure ; but there

is no reason why you should not live respectably
and like a gentleman in the meantime,
preparing your resources for possible calls.
Remember Grace."

Moray was not unwilling to be persuaded.
Kalph Leslie, who had sympathised formerly
with his fine-spun scruples, had now become
his conscience and almost his honour. And
after all, Leslie might be right in believing
that things were by no means so bad as they
appeared.

So the next pressing business was to put
everything on the most economical footing ;
and the arrangements, painful as they were,
at all events occupied his mind, and were sofar
serviceable. There was no difficulty about
getting rid of the house in London : on the
whole, he preferred to let it furnished —
although at one time he almost decided to
sell, on the principle that some sudden turn
in his affairs might make him regret his
precipitancy. He was doomed to grope painfully
in the dark. As a Celt he was somewhat
inclined to superstition, and the darkness is
favourable to superstitious fancies. After all,
the house in town was a mere matter for the

house-agent. But the question of Glenconan
lay near to his heart, and the idea of having
to part with it was dragging at his heartstrings.
It was with extreme relief, then, and
no little joy and gratitude, that he received
a couple of seasonable offers. Calverley Baker
wrote a rather blunt business-like letter, though
civilly worded, proposing to take the mansion
and shootings for a term of three years, at
a rent to be settled between his lawyers and
those of Mr Moray. At the close of his tenancy,
as he added politely, he hoped to hand
the property back to the proprietor with as
good a head of game as when he received it.
By the very next post came a communication
from Winstanley, almost to the same effect,
except that he spoke of renting Glenconan
from year to year, that he might be ready
to give it back to its master on the shortest
notice. But Winstanley's letter was a model
of delicacy and kindly feeling ; and though
Moray knew the diplomatic gifts of his friend,
he could not help fancying that Julia had
inspired it. When he took Grace into his
confidence and showed her the letter, she
quite agreed with him. She laid her finger

unhesitatingly on certain passages, saying
they had certainly been dictated or suggested
by Julia. For. since she had heard of the
love-passages between Miss Winstanley and
Glenconan, her feelings towards that young
lady had altogether changed, and she was
eager to make atonement for having misunderstood
her.

But that point being settled to their mutual
satisfaction, Grace was greatly surprised to
find that her father inclined to treat with Mr
Baker.

With Baker there can be no sort of obligation,"
he said. " He will have full value for
his money, which he chiefly cares about, and
it will be a mere matter of pounds, shillings,
and pence."

So it would, sir — and for that reason,
surely you will give Mr Winstanley the preference.
He wishes to be friendly — Julia
desires it much more — and I am sure it would
be a satisfaction to you to gratify both of
them. And — and "

And I had better begin to practise humility,
you would say, and learn to put my pride
in my pocket. Well, my dear, I daresay you

are right. It is a hard lesson to learn, but it
cannot be learned too soon."

So it was settled, and settled promptly.
Moray was not a man to hang upon a decision
of the kind ; though characteristically he
sent a letter to his agents, desiring them not
to drive too hard a bargain in the circumstances.
I am bound," he said, " to do as well for my
possible creditors as I should have done for
myself, but assuredly I cannot be bound todo
any better." And it was with strangely
mingled feelings that he set his signature
to the lease of his shootings. On the one
hand, he went all the lighter that his mind
was made up beyond present reconsideration ;
on the other hand, he had drained a bitter
cup, and he felt as if his spirits were crushed
by the dissipation of a life's day-dreams. He
had realised the cherished hopes of his youth
and middle age. He had come home while
yet in the pride of strength and health, to
settle down on his hereditary wastes, with
superfluities in place of encumbrances. Above
all, he had been reunited to the daughter who
was so dear to him, and had looked to his
wealth and estates descending to her children.

Now he was on the eve of another, perhaps
a lifelong separation, and to all intents and
purposes Grace might be left a beggar. What
was certain was, that with the least possible
delay he must deliberately determine on his
course of action. Resignation to the will of
Providence was very well in its way. He had
listened with apparent complacency, curbing
his impatience, to the worthy minister of
Glenconan's homilies on the subject ; but new
enterprises were the only tonic that could
react on his energetic nature.

He had never much liked London, as we
know, but never had he found it so hateful as
when he went south in search of occupation.
It recalled the visit of some thirty years before,
when he had started from London a boyish
adventurer, before his first expedition to the
East. He shrank sadly from the old associations,
and yet he haunted the scenes that
recalled them. There was the old Tavistock
Hotel in Covent Garden, with the same smells
of the decaying cabbages without, and the
memories of the water-cresses and skim-milk
on the breakfast - tables of the coffee-room
within. There were the pit-doors of Drury

Lane and of the Haymarket, where he used to
laugh at the humours of Blackstone. How
lightly he laughed at anything in those days !
what an appetite he used to have for chops
and oysters at the jovial suppers in the Halls
of Harmony ! Yet after all, on second thoughts,
his appetite and digestion only a few weeks
before had been almost as good as ever. His
troubles were ageing him prematurely, yet he
could not afford to be ill. He must summon
all the powers of his will to his aid, and he
would seek to summon them accordingly.
Sometimes they would answer to the call,
often they would positively refuse ; and nothing
wastes and wears the constitution more
surely than the perpetual effort to subjugate
the sentiments to the will.

He had made up his mind to go back to the
East, and in his constant conversations with
his daughter he had made no secret of his
intentions. In the East he was sure of finding
occupation, and, at all events, a competent
income in the meantime. It was too late, ashe
told himself, to amass a second fortune ;
yet, after all, who could say ? Not even with
the advance of years, and under pressure of

disappointments, does a Raleigh lightly renounce
the golden dreams which cheered him
along the path of his early adventures.
Moray's old mercantile acquaintances in the
City showed themselves friendly enough : he
was a man to whom they might make liberal
offers of help, in the assurance that any offers
would be charily accepted. And he had pretty
nearly resolved as to how he was to begin
again, and was thinking already of securing a
cheap passage in a screw-liner for Singapore,
and of seeing about his slender outfit.

In his talks with Grace he had made no
secret of his intentions ; and he was surprised,
and somewhat hurt indeed, at her strange
insensibility on the subject. Seeing that he
had set his heart upon going, she seemed to
take his going as a matter of course — which
was all very well, and so far satisfactory. He
would have been sorry that she should have
broken her heart over the separation, but he
looked for a display of much natural feeling.
He looked in vain : there was nothing of the
kind. Grace discussed his plans with a calmness
which would have done credit to a stoic,
but which sat indifferently on a generally im-vol.

n, o

impressionable young girl, who had always been
the spoiled darling of a doting parent.

But there is often a silver lining to the
blackest of clouds, and they may be bursting
with unexpected blessings when we fancy them
pregnant with trouble. Moray, for his own
sake as well as for hers, tried hard to make
apologies for Grace ; nevertheless the stinging
suspicion of her heartlessness and ingratitude
was fretting his very soul. Had it not been
for the peculiar circumstances of his case,
which disposed him to see everything en noir,
the loving and large - minded father could
scarcely have been so perversely unjust : the
whole tenor of his daughter's life and conduct
should have pled for her. As it was, he began
to figure himself as a Lear, while his Cornelia
was changing to a Began or a General. The
tone of his mind was reflected in his manner ;
and Grace, to her grief and pain, became conscious
of the cloud between them. When, one
morning, in growing desperation, he determined
to bring matters to a point : he had an
interview with the head of a mercantile firm
in Leadenhall Street, and then dropped in at
the office of a steamship company in Milliner

Square. Contemning alike cabs and omnibuses,
he strode homewards to the west by the
Thames Embankment, and turned up at the
door of their lodgings in Bury Street, Publico,
pale, sad, but determined.

Grace, who was sitting down to a solitary
luncheon, jumped up with delight.

I had given you up, papa, and I am so
happy to see you. Julia Winstanley has been
here, and insists on driving me down to Richmond
in the afternoon. You will come with
us, will you not ? Finette is longing for a run
in the country;" and she patted the setter
that lay stretched on the hearth rug. " In the
meantime sit down, and let me give you a
slice of this cold mutton : there is nothing
else, so you may as well be contented."

Moray sat down in silence, and left her to
help him. His silence was almost as chilling
as the kiss with which he had answered her
effusive embrace. Never perhaps had a pair
who loved each other so dearly felt so miserably
ill at ease.

You will come with us, father, will you
not ? " said Grace again ; " though indeed I
only accepted conditionally. But an hour or

two in Richmond Park will do you as much
good as Finette. You look as if you wanted
a little change and the fresh air of the country,"
she added, anxiously."

I shall soon have change enough, Grace,"
answered Moray, gravely. " I have booked a
berth for Singapore in the Fire King, for the
14th of next month, — not much more than a
fortnight hence, as you see, and my hands will
be full enough in the meantime."

At which announcement Grace's heart jumped
up to her throat, and she strove in vain to repress
her emotion. She was seized with a
trembling in every limb, till the fork in her
hand clattered against her wine-glass. Her
father watched her with mingled pain and
curiosity. He set down her emotion to remorse
and regret ; and though the display of
feeling came rather late, nevertheless his heart
warmed to her. He was about going to tell
her kindly not to vex herself, since she knew
that the inevitable separation must come sooner
or later, when she took the speech out of his
mouth. She would have given the world to
have spoken calmly and more promptly, since
she wanted to appear to speak naturally.

"Taken our berths, papa, did you say? and
without saying a word to me : surely that was
somewhat precipitate. I must say, I thought
you would have consulted me, and at least
have given me a glimpse at my cabin beforehand."


If Grace's fork had clattered against the
glasses, her father let his fall from his hand.
A delightful light began to break out of the
blackness, irradiating the past, the present,
and the future. Then the misgivings that had
haunted him must have been phantoms of his
own conjuring ; and Grace, in her affectionate
innocence, had taken it for granted that she
was to be the companion of his exile. Now, if
the truth must be told, the artless Miss Grace
was not half so innocent as she had wished to
appear. She had determined from the first to
go with her father : she had felt persuaded that
he would not have her company on any terms.
On mature consideration, she had come to the
conclusion that her best chance was to bide
her time, and treat the arrangement as a matter
of course. Absorbed in that idea, she had
failed to realise how entirely her father had
misunderstood her motives ; and when of a

sudden he sprang the mine upon her that morning,
she had been agitated by the idea of the
role she had to play, and the issues involved
in her playing it successfully. That she had
broken down in the circumstances was a matter
of course, since rehearsals are indispensable
to the most experienced actors : she knew she
had failed ignominiously in carrying off the
situation, and she sat before her father as a
self-convicted impostor.

So it was ; he saw through her transparent
device — and in another moment he held her
clasped in his arms, and was covering her face
and hair with his kisses. He could not speak,
for he was thoroughly ashamed of the confession
he would have to make ; and with one
single exception he would have done anything
to atone for his suspicions. Grace saw through
him as he had seen through her, and yet she
generously refrained from reproaching him.
The generosity came all the more easily to her,
that in his melting and penitent mood she was
sure to mould him to her wishes. She would
strike while the iron was hot, and have it
over.

Well, papa — of course we must give up

the drive to Richmond. I shall send Julia a
note of apology, and we shall go clown to the
office, or to the docks, if the Fire King happens
to be lying there. You may have forgotten
about my cabin," she added, with a
smile, " and in that case the sooner we see toit
the better. Do you think I can arrange to
take Finette into it with me ? I am sure she
would be miserable if she had her quarters in
the steerage."

But Grace did not know her father quite so
well as she fancied. He was overflowing with
the dammed-back reserves of love, let loose in
this sudden opening of the sluice-gates. He
was melting with the tenderness that comes of
remorse for cruelty gratuitously practised on
a cherished object. His feelings were those
of the mourner who has learned too late of
injustice towards the darling of whom death
has bereaved him ; only happily now there
was no " too late " in the matter, and he had
opportunity, if it so pleased him, of making
ample reparation. For that very reason
Moray stood firm ; and while his heart was of
wax, his will was of iron.

"Say no more, Grace — say no more, my

dearest girl : God knows that, with the best
and fondest intentions, you have only tortured
me too terribly already. You know that I
never go back from my word," — he caught
the hand she raised, in deprecation, in both of
his, and covered it with kisses, — " you know I
never go back from my word ; and I say and
swear that, things being as they are, nothing
will tempt me to let you share my doubtful
prospects. Besides," he added, with a forced
smile, addressing himself to her practical good
sense, — " besides, you would not wish to hang
upon my arms, when age is threatening to
weaken them at any rate."

If he had feared that Grace would press her
plea, he must have been agreeably disappointed.
It is possible that he might have
felt aggrieved by her calm acquiescence, had
he not been still smarting from the lesson
against jumping to hasty conclusions. Be that
as it may, she said nothing — though, like
the famous parrot of the fable, she may have
thought all the more.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Enables A LA Recourse.

Although Moray and his daughter had been
naturally leading a secluded life, it must not
be supposed that they were left alone in
London. Dull time of the year as it was —
for it was yet early in drear November —
people were already coming back to town.
The Winstanleys were there — Winstanley, as
we know, always welcomed the earliest opportunity
of getting back to his beloved clubs
and City boards ; so it was the more to his
credit or to his daughter's that he had tied
himself by a lease of Glenconan. Ralph Leslie
was there, still busying himself, when he could,
over the affairs of the liquidation ; occasionally
taking flying trips to Glasgow, when, sorely
against his tastes, he would travel third class ;
and striving to distract himself from his various

anxieties by hard work. He had to carry
all the load of Moray's troubles, for he never
forgot how they had been caused. And the
future of his cousin lay near to his heart —
and his own future as well ; for was not the
one inextricably bound up with the other?
He used to say to himself that he was selfish,
as very likely he was ; but selfishness in certain
circumstances may almost become a
virtue, and at any rate must command the
sympathies of humanity. Yet, strange to say,
with all that was weighing upon him, he found
he had the power of turning to his literary
pursuits with such concentrated exaltation ashe
had never experienced before. He always
turned with an effort, but the effort was almost
invariably rewarded. He looked forward
with mingled pleasure and dread to
the later hours of the evening. He would
dine very frugally in his rooms — a more
economical and agreeable arrangement than
taking his meal in the mixed society of his
club. After dinner he would doze and dream,
and trifle with some light book — anything
his indolence suggested, to put off the evil
hour of pulling himself together and summoning

his fancies. But once seated at his table,
with parenthetical striplings up and clown the
floor, the clouds would clear from his brain
as scales seemed to be falling from his brightening
eyes. He was transported $ into fair
fields of the imagination, where he might
have forgotten the hard, prose of the present,
had it not been for a perpetually uneasy feeling
that the bent bow must not be permitted
to fly back under some dimly realised penalty.
That the double strain was doing deadly harm
there could be no doubt ; the poetical inspirations,
which acted like the oriental's hasch-
wish, transporting him into a dreamland which
bordered on brain fever, was a blending of
opiate and stimulant with subtle poison. All
the same, a new poem was growing fast under
his hand, more ambitious in its tone and
its stately Spenserian measure than any he
had yet attempted. Scheme it had none ;
it seemed to work out of itself, by suggestions
independent of his thoughts and volitions.
Scheme it had none ; yet it seemed
to be shaping itself in forms of grandeur and
beauty that surprised and intoxicated him.
He was by no means puffed up, and he wrote

in fear and trembling, dashing the lines down
in haste, lest his fancies should suddenly fail
him. His pen seemed the instrument of a
mysterious power ; he felt as one of the Hebrew
prophets might have felt, soaring on
the pinions of the spirit above the tabernacle
of fleshly humanity. Yet as each prophetic
utterance bore the stamp of the speaker's individuality,
whether he came from the rugged
watercourses of Gilead or the soft green
meadows by the Jordan, so Leslie wove his
own deep and sad recent experiences into
the tissue of his web, and coloured the threads
with the tints of his consuming passion. He
drew fresh excitement and a broader range
of versatility from what might be called his
humble self consciousness. His fear was that
his pinions might fail him any day, and that
in the midst of his adventurous flight he
might come tumbling broken-backed to ground.
Even then he comforted himself with the
hope that his labours might not have been
altogether wasted, — that he might leave a
fragment to found a reputation, if Grace
cared for that, like Coleridge's half sung lay
of " Christened," or the strain of him

"Who left half-told
The story of Cambuscan bold."

Meanwhile, night after night he worked late
or less late, as it might be, for his inspiration
would leave him with scarcely a second of
warning. It was not its nature to flicker
down like a dying candle ; on the contrary,
it was turned off of a sudden, like the jet of a
gas-burner. Happily, though often his visions
would revisit him in his bed, sometimes he
slept the sleep of the dreamless. Nevertheless
his strong constitution was being sapped :
his sunken cheeks showed a hectic flush in
place of the old rosy hues of health ; and
there was a feverish glitter in the eyes that
had once been so calm and clear. He gave
little thought to his own health : had he
cared more, he might have consoled himself,
had he known all. We know that pity is
akin to love ; but when love and pity are
close allies as well as kinsfolk, the one fans
the flame of the other. The sight of Leslie,
whom she saw constantly, went as constantly
to the innermost recesses of Grace's heart.
Her great compassion grew, as she began to
be greatly alarmed ; and had he thought the

time a fitting one to question her as to her
feelings, the answer would have been given
in a form that must have surpassed his fondest
hopes. Even with his diffidence, as he
caught her eyes fixed on his, as he saw her
turn her head aside to conceal the tears that
filled them, he must have been more modest
and much less observant than he was, had
he not more than suspected the truth.

As for Jack Enables, who found himself
not unfrequently in company of the lovers, he
had not a doubt on the matter, and it confirmed
him in his new and manly resolutions.

What a fool I was nearly making of myself
! " he said to himself ; " and what is worse,
I was within an ace of behaving like a villain.
Well, one thing I will say — that girl is enough
to make a fool or a scoundrel of anybody with
more passion than principle. Upon my word,
I would willingly look as ill as Kalph — and he
does look ill, and I shall send him to see Cutler
I would almost look as ill as Ralph to be
pitied as she pities him. But, unluckily, that's
past praying for, and my appetite is perfect,
and I shall go and order dinner."

Which he did, and he did ample justice to

the meal. But nevertheless, Jack's monologue
was delivered rather ruefully ; and as yet, he
still felt more deeply than he would have been
willing to allow. With the tempting prize he
had stretched his hand for hanging immediately
but impossibly beyond his reach, it was not
in his nature that his heart-wounds should
heal all at once. But all the same, as he knew,
they were scaring over, and he was content
to wait for the cure which he began to hope
might be expected.

For Mr Enables had likewise come up to
town ; and having unconscionably extended a
long leave, was again engrossed in his arduous
secretarial duties. He could do nothing for
his uncle now, except cheer and sympathise
with him ; so, of course, he busied himself in
his own affairs — social, political, and commercial
— for, like Leslie, Jack felt in need of distraction.
To do him bare justice, he was
deeply grieved that Grlenconan would accept
nothing in the way of pecuniary help — that he
would even give no promise as to the future,
except that he would sooner address himself
to Jack than to anybody. When he added,
however, by way of afterthought, " unless,

perhaps, Ralph Leslie," he was so struck by
the look of annoyance on his favourite's face,
that, suspecting that poor Jack was now altogether
out of the running, he laid a hand on
his arm, and said kindly —

Perhaps, to tell the truth, I would rather
come to you first ; for, though Ralph is the
kindest and most affectionate of nephews, I
have always regarded you as a boy of my own."

Still he remained peremptory as ever on the
main point, and the very warmth of his expressions
was cold comfort to Jack. How well
we should have got on as father and son-in-law,
he thought, and what a pleasant little
family-party we might have made ! Then he
thought too, and with honest vexation, that,
after all his fine promises and noble resolutions
of self-sacrifice, he must seem something like
a humbug to his cousin Grace. It was true
that her father had proved obdurate beyond
expectation : it was true, it was not his fault
that she had not been able to show him how
he could help them. Nevertheless, all the
same, if he were not a humbug, he was in a
somewhat ridiculous position — and to ridicule
Jack was particularly sensitive.

Now it will be remembered that at the close
of the happy explanation with her parent in
the last chapter, Grace had remained silent
and preoccupied. In fact her mind was full
of a resolution she must lose no time in carrying
out. Jack had been complaining that she
had asked him to do nothing for her : he
really seemed to bear her a grudge for breaking
the terms of their compact. Well, he
should no longer have even the semblance of
a grievance, and she would tax his generosity
to the uttermost. She knew it was a melancholy
pleasure to him to see her, even in his
character of rejected suitor : she half smiled,
though there was moisture in her eyes as she
thought so. Well, she was going to ask him
to send her away from him ; to use all his
efforts and all his influence to procure her
father some fixed appointment and a place of
residence in the East. If that were assured
him, it would cut the ground from under his
feet, upon which he had chiefly objected to
taking her along with him. Whether Jack
could do it, she did not know ; but she had a
woman's faith in his star and in his rising
fortunes. That he would do his best, she did

VOL. II. p

not doubt ; for she had a woman's faith in the
loyalty of the man who had honestly, though
hopelessly, loved her.

Jack was seated in state in the offices of the
President of the Council. Lord Wrekin was
far away — belated over a course of the waters
at Aix-les-Bains — and Jack had taken possession
of the presence-chamber, and was filling
his lordship's chair of state. In the dignity
of that position, he held subversive and democratic
views. He declared to himself that in
an effete state of society, rank and age received
undue recognition. Here was Lord
Wrekin, who was a worse victim to the gout
than his brother, promoted to his highly responsible
post on the score of being a peer
and a sexagenarian ; while he, who was really
discharging the duties of the office, was declared
by a stupid prejudice to be ineligible
for a position in which, as he nattered himself,
he might have shone.

He was disturbed from an Aluaschar-like
reverie — in which he was lightly leaping from
office to office, in a rise to the upper ranks of
the peerage — by the entrance of the messenger.
Jack started and blushed, as if the man

couch have read his absurdities ; and then his
features assumed an expression of dignified
austerity, which was equally absurd, and quite
perceptible to the messenger. But the well-trained
official repressed a grin, and announced
deferentially, " A lady to see you, sir."

Now Jack, in the discharge of his delicate
duties, had not only to answer a great variety
of cream-laid and wire-woven notes with gorgeous
blazons or eccentric monograms, but to
receive a good many " ladies of quality " who
preferred to transact their little affairs in
person. Some of these grandes dames were
welcome enough ; but there were one or two
exceptionally assiduous in attendance, who
had long ago become his betes noires, if we
dare apply so rough an expression to the
gentler sex. So Jack inquired, with real
concern, whether Bateson chanced to know
the lady.

"Never saw her before, Mr Enables," was
the unhesitating reply ; " but I think, sir," he
added with overdone stolidity, " that perhaps
you might not object to receive her."

A wink at all times was as good as a nod to
Jack.

It is really excessively inconvenient at
this hour ; but — well, I don't know. Bring
the lady up, Bateson — beg her to walk up."

Up she walked accordingly ; and had she
been stepping on bare boards, the light
tripping foot so familiar to Jack's ear would
have fallen familiarly, it was set down so
deliberately. But the thick pile of the Turkey
carpets deadened all sound ; and when Bateson
threw back the door a second time, the secretary
was buried in the perusal of a voluminous
state-paper. Almost before the door had
gently closed again, a light silvery laugh disturbed
the hypocrite. He sprang to his feet ;
he pitched the document behind him, where it
fell into the fire and burnt away unrewarded.
For in another moment Jack had caught his
cousin in his arms, and pressed his lips upon
her cheek before he consented to release
her.

Well, I declare, sir," she exclaimed, as she
blushed, and laughed again, and arranged her
bonnet — " well, I declare, sir, if I had doubted
about my reception, your warmth of welcome
ought to reassure me. And I, who had always
innocently imagined that the office of Lord

President of the Council embodied all that
was most ceremonious and formal ! "

"And so it does, Grace, in an ordinary
way ; " and he thought grimly of one or two
of his most dreaded visitors. " But you see,
we allow ourselves a considerable discretion ;
and so, in exceptional instances, we relax the
rules."

Then the sooner they are tightened again
the better, I should say." And then, remembering
the grave business on which she had
come, the change on her own countenance was
sudden enough in all conscience. Jack remarked
it at once, and knew the business she
had come upon as well as if she had already
told him. He remembered, too, that the unseasonable
freedom of his reception might
leave her, upon second thoughts, ill at ease.
She had come to her cousin unchaperoned, and
he had treated her cavalierly, as he would
never have behaved to her, unless under extreme
provocation, in her own drawing-room.
On the instant there was a corresponding
change in him. All the kindness of his manner
remained, but the fervour had died out of
it ; and no precisian of the strainer sect of the

Puritans could have been more gently formal.
If he had sinned, the best reparation he could
make was to spare her all further embarrassments.


And now, Grace, to tell me what you have
come about, if you think it worth while. Or
rather go straight to the point, and let me
know what I can do to serve my uncle. If
you knew how I had wearied and waited for
this hour, you would not be surprised that my
raptures betrayed me into extravagance."

Grace looked with her frank eyes into his,
and blushing again, her looks more than
thanked him. She fancied they understood
each other so well — and she was right — that
she wasted not a single breath upon civilities,
but went indeed very straight to the point.
She told him how she was situated ; she painted
the terror and grief with which she regarded
separation ; and she wound up by saying —

Should he go out as he proposes, on something
like a wild-goose chase, he will leave me
behind, and there is no help for it. His heartstrings
are entwined so firmly with mine, that
nothing I can urge will possibly move him ;
and though I know he will suffer as much as

I, my tears will harden instead of melting
him. Whereas, if I could manage what he
believes to be impossible, and get him some
reasonably good engagement, with fixed headquarters,
he stands committed in honour as in
tenderness, and can hardly possibly draw back.
Oh, Jack!"

Jack sat in silence looking down, and drumming
on the table with his fingers. Grace
had a horrible sinking of the heart. Was she
to be disappointed, after all, in her volatile
cousin ? and had she been trusting to a bending
reed ? But the doubt was only momentary,
and her cousin glanced up with a face
that was at once reassuring and resolute.
She had never seen him look so much of the
man ; indeed, as he rose to his feet, with his
strong figure and smiling face, and seeming
to hold her destiny in his hands, he appeared
to her overstrained nerves very much of the
demigod. He took a turn or two along the
great rug without speaking, and when he did
speak, it seemed as if he were weighing each
word, very contrary to his usual custom.

1 ' You have given me the opportunity I
prayed for, Grace ; now it is for me to avail

myself of it. I would not raise false hopes for
the world, for I would guard against adding
to your anxieties by disappointment. . But I
solemnly swear by what I hold most sacred
and that is my brotherly love for you —
that I shall spare neither effort, influence,
nor self-esteem in trying to help you to the
object you desire. I shall push requests as
I should never push them for myself; and
you know," he added, with a smile, "that I
have a very sufficient stock of impudence.
As for the rest, it is in the hands of Providence
; but I have a strong idea that Providence
will smile upon us. And who knows,
but that if Providence should interest itself
in us, I may have the opportunity of killing
two birds with one stone, and paying off an
instalment of my debt to Kalph ? If he saw
that it was all comparatively smooth sailing
with Glenconan, I see no reason why you and
Kalph should not marry. Do you ? "

Oh, dear Jack, how very good you are !
But — but — he has never asked me."

Well, he will then — you may take my
word for that — and perhaps before many days
are over. And now I must send you summarily

away, for I have many things to turnover
in my mind, much to the injury of her
Majesty's service. Besides, there is Mr Bate-son's
knock at the door : if Bateson interrupts
a business interview of this sort, you may be
very sure that the summons is urgent."

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE SUMATRA COLONISATION COMPANY.

All Jack's best feelings were awakened, and
his pride was piqued besides. He warmed up
very easily to the luxury of doing a kind
action ; and here was such a chance as he
had scarcely hoped for, and would certainly
never have again. To know that he had been
able to befriend Grace and her father, would
be a constant source of happiness for years to
come ; nor was he sorry to have the opportunity
of so far clearing scores with Ralph
Leslie. Moreover, it was much to him to
play the patron to such a man as Moray —
the deus ex machina to such a girl as Grace.
If he did not rise to the opportunity, it should
not be his fault ; and the immediate question
was how to set about it.

Never, when he had been planning and

scheming for himself, had his quick and busy-brain
been so active as when he strolled meditatively
out of Whitehall through the Horse
Guards and made his way across St James's
Park. He chose to dine by himself in a quiet
corner of the coffee-room of the Blue Posts,
that his meditations might not be interrupted
by club gossip ; and when he dropped late in
the evening into the smoking-room at the
Junior Carlton, of which establishment he
had lately become a member, his plan of
operations was pretty well arranged. What
with his sanguine spirits and a pint of the old
port of "the Posts'' he began already to feel
tolerably confident ; though his hopes were
vague enough, and he looked forward to rebuffs,
and even to mortifications. But what
of that ? Qui veut la Fin, veut les moyens.
He was not asking for himself, and he
would resign himself to put up with unpleasantness.


But man proposes and the higher powers
overrule. Jack attained his object with the
minimum of effort — in fact, by an almost incredible
stroke of good-fortune, though he
plumed himself, with some reason, on a bit

of diplomacy which might have touched more
scrupulous consciences.

There were sundry smokers scattered about
the smoking-room, singly or in groups ; and
the eyes of the new-comer rested at once on
a consequential individual seated by himself,
no less a man than Sir Stamford Scraper,
chairman of three great companies, and director
of three times as many more. Jack knew
Sir Stamford pretty well — had met him repeatedly
at Winstanley's table or elsewhere,
and disliked him. On this occasion, in answer
to a rather condescending nod and sign,
our friend strolled up to him. Nay, when
Sir Stamford favoured him with four stiff
fingers, he pressed them with cordiality. It
was much for Sir Stamford to give as many as
four fingers to any man under the rank of a
wealthy peer or a Governor of the Bank of
England — more especially to one so young as
our friend ; but Jack, in other circumstances,
would have resented not having the thumb
as well.

Glad to see you, Enables," said the great
man, very affably ; and as he made room on
the couch beside him, Jack accepted the

proffered seat, and rang for coffee and
cigarettes.

And how has the world been using you,
Enables ? " the other went on, with the
undertone of patronage that was so intensely
irritating.

Fairly enough, as times go," answered
Jack lightly, swallowing down his rising annoyance
as a morsel of the humble-pie he had
made up his mind for. He meant to turn the
conversation towards business matters ; for one
of his companion's great companies had its
operations in the far East — and here was the
very opening he wanted.

Fairly enough ; " and though it suited him
to keep his temper and be civil, as it would not
at all serve his purpose to be crowed over, he
began slightly to swagger, and to be more confidential
than he would otherwise have been.
He had to remind the big speculator that he
was something more than Winstanley's right-hand
man ; that he might be considered a rising
power in the City circles himself, having
done remarkably well in a wonderfully short
time.

Ay, one other bit of luck I have had, by

the way," he added, by way of postscript to a
rather romantic story of successful enterprise,
and as if this unconsidered trifle had almost
escaped his recollection. " One other bit of
luck I have had, and all the pleasant that it
came of a hit among the Yankees."

And then he gave a sketch of the affairs of
the silver-mine which made Sir Stamford open
the eyes of envy and admiration, and regard
his young acquaintance with greater consideration
than before. He was one of those men
who identify good luck with great practical
talents — a mistake into which neither Winstanley
nor Mr Enables was at all likely to
fall. Sir Stamford had been dining alone, too,
or at least in company of a bottle of the club's
best Burgundy ; and altogether he was more
inclined to talk than usual. To do him justice,
he had much too high an opinion of himself to
hesitate to mention any mistakes he might
have made or any misfortunes he might have
met with. But he thought it might be useful
if this clever and pushing young man would
play jackal to his lion in moments perdus.

Oh yes ! there will be ups and downs in
speculation. Hitherto you seem to have had

all the ups ; the more reason for your looking
out for some of the downs. And I don't mind
owning that I have had a sharpish experience
of them of late, though I may boast that I have
done better than most people. You know the
story of those electric-lighting companies ? "

For Sir Stamford had notoriously bought a
variety of patents cheap ; and having transferred
his concessions to sundry companies
(limited), had made great profits by the original
transactions. How far he had subsequently
burned his fingers with the shareholders, when
premiums had vanished away like smoke, and
shares fallen like mercury in the frosts of December,
was a question that had been much
discussed in the City articles.

As well as any outsider can. But between
you and me, Sir Stamford, you must permit
me to doubt whether so shrewd a financier as
you has not succeeded in keeping on the
weather-gage. Let the storms blow as they
will, some folks have the knack of floating
ashore, and saving the bulk of their little property
besides."

Sir Stamford, as Jack had surmised, felt
flattered rather than annoyed. To any man

of sensitive honour, the questionable compliment
would have been a gross insult ; but promoters
and professional financiers have codes
of morality of their own.

Well, Mr Enables, between you and meas
you say, perhaps I have not done so very
badly. All the same, I have made far less
than I had reason to expect ; and so far the
electric mania has been disappointing. It is
all a question of time, of course ; but I have
no fancy for the philanthropy that is to serve
posterity. And I really thought only a year
ago that we had cut the gas-pipes and turned
off the gas."

"Everything comes to him who waits," remarked
Jack, sententiously. " You remember
the favourite saying of the late French Emperor.
And you are as likely to live for
another quarter of a century as any man I
know."

It was another stroke of dexterous flattery.
Sir Stamford, who was of a somewhat sanguine
complexion, and apoplectic, dreaded death as
much as any man who has consecrated himself
to the exclusive worship of Mammon. He
liked Mr Enables more and more; he mar-veiled

that lie had been so long blind to his
best qualities.

That threadbare bit of comfort might be
all very well, if we could all hope to live to
the age of Methuselah. But in the meanwhile
things will keep going wrong, and somehow it
may take a deuce of a time to bring them
round again. You know something of the
half-yearly reports of joint-stock companies
in difficulties ? "

"As I trust none of yours are. I am not
talking, of course, of the Electrical Illumination,
which certainly seems to be pretty well
quenched for the present."

Well, no ; not exactly in difficulties. But
somehow a man like me, who has interests allover
the world, must live in perpetual fear and
trembling when he is out of the swing of good
luck. If he open an evening paper, there maybe
a snake in the pages to sting him." And
Sir Stamford crumpled up viciously a copy of
the ' St James's Gazette ' which lay on the
table beside his coffee-cup.

No bad news in the ' St James's,' is there? "
asked Jack, indifferently.

Not precisely bad news ; but still there is

VOL. II. Q

a worrying telegram. You know I am chairman
of the Sumatra Colonisation Company ? "

Everybody who is anybody knows that."

Well, the Sumatra has a magnificent field
before it. With fair fortune and able management,
it might follow in the footsteps of the
old East India Company."

I have always thought you never showed
your penetration more conspicuously than
when you accepted the direction of that magnificent
enterprise. You may annex an archipelago
of spice-bearing islands to the Imperial
Crown of England. You may crush the Dutch
a slow-going race of dam-diggers — out of
competition with us. You may not only enrich
yourself, your friends, and your shareholders
beyond the dreams of avarice, but you
may be handed down to history through all
generations as the Hastings of some future
Macaulay."

Jack pulled himself up in the flood-tide of
his eloquence, because he feared he might be
fooling Sir Stamford beyond the top of his
bent. He need have entertained no apprehensions
of the kind. Sir Stamford knew
little of Lord Macaulay, and less of Warren

Hastings ; but he believed that Jack meant to
be complimentary, and no amount of incense
could sicken him.

Yes, yes ; I know, I know. And you maybe
sure I had thought of all that. And, on
my soul and conscience, the dividends may be
stupendous ; for the scheme is a sound one as
ever was devised. The last reports were as
promising as could be imagined ; and I was
actually counting my chickens as I walked upto
this club."

And what may have happened to interfere
with the hatching ? "

Nothing very serious, to be sure; but allis
thrown back into uncertainty. In a colonisation
scheme like ours, everything depends
on the man to whom we must confide its local
working. There is no telegraph beyond Penang
; so our Eesident, factotum, or plenipotentiary
is practically master of the situation.
I had found an excellent man — Chamberlain,
an old Indian political agent and a dashing
cavalry officer. He knew all about the
administration of native territory ; he could
have drilled semi-savage levies, and commanded
them. He was honest as the day

besides, and yet biddable ; and I thought I
had seldom made a happier hit."

"And now?"

And now, after really a comfortable little
dinner, when I settle myself to sipping the
last glass of the Chambertin, I call for the
evening paper by way of digestive. I knew
I should see a rise in Mexican Preferences,
and so I did — when, turning over the page,
there is a telegram from Penang. Chamberlain
has slipped through our hands, and gone
and died of jungle fever."

Hard lines upon you, and not over-pleasant
for Colonel Chamberlain ! " Jack spoke carelessly,
that he might collect his thoughts.
The ball had been actually tossed into his
hands ; now his business was to play it back
to the best advantage.

It's bad for Chamberlain, no doubt — or
for his widow," said Sir Stamford, peevishly ;
but why did he assure us that his constitution
was fever-proof? I remember his very
words, and I must say he has behaved badly.
Only see the position he has left us in. It's
not easy putting one's hand on the right man
at a day's notice. Should we find him, he

will have ever so many preparations to make
before he sails. And every day is of vital
consequence, for we have not a head that is
worth counting in the Settlement."

Sir Stamford looked to Jack for some answer;
but Jack sat silent, and in deep abstraction.
His cigarette had burned almost down to his
lips ; but even that failed to rouse him from
his profound reflection. Sir Stamford watched
him curiously ; then grew impatient ; and
finally ejaculated an impetuous "Well?"

Then Jack started out of his dream, with
an admirably feigned blending of confusion
and apology.

Forgive me, Sir Stamford ; but to tell the
truth, I was thinking over a wild idea that
flashed across me. There are strange coincidences
in this sublunary world, and our meeting
to-night may have been anything rather
than fortuitous. Who knows ? The fate of
ever so many people may depend on it."

Sir Stamford cared little for the mob of
people, but he was deeply concerned in the
fate of one promoter. He was really interested
: he hung upon Jack's lips, which were
not particularly quick to open. When Jack

did open them, if his speech was not of gold,
it fell like a tolerable imitation of that precious
metal.

As it happens, I believe I know the very
man you want. The worst is, that there is
literally no hope of engaging him."

"Who in the world do you mean? — not
Hobbler ? I had thought of him ; but he is
booked already for the Government of Northern
Australia."

Hobbler ! pooh ! pooh ! Forgive me, Sir
Stamford, but I am surprised. Hobbler, as no
one knows better than you, is a simple martinet
among upper clerks — a mere man of
routine — only fitted to go in leading-strings,
and then likely enough to come to grief.
No, I was thinking of a very different individual
; but then, like Hobbler, he is booked
already."

Let me hear his name at any rate ? "

I mean David Moray of Glenconan, a great
landed proprietor in the north of Scotland, who
made a large fortune, besides, in mercantile
pursuits in China."

I know him," answered Sir Stamford, and
his face fell. " I have met him at Winstanley's,

and I did not think much of him. To be sure,
he did understand something about the East,
for I remember his waking up on a discussion
about Chinese tariffs. But he had little to say
about anything else, and I heard he had come
to utter grief in that Scottish bank business.
He is a connection of yours, by the way,"
added Sir Stamford, suspiciously.

He is a connection of mine — a near connection,
and a great friend ; and that perhaps
is your only chance of securing his invaluable
services. Don't imagine for a moment that I
am pressing them on you. Should anything
of the kind come round to Moray, he would
send both you and me to the mischief. He is
the most independent-minded man I ever met,
and the shrewdest ; with extraordinary fertility
of resource, and exceptional decision of
character."

"Yet he has been fool enough to lose his
fortune in that ridiculous bank."

To compromise it, and without the slightest
indiscretion on his own part." Jack explained
all the circumstances. " And now he
has laid new plans, and set his face as a flint to
carry them out : if we can induce him to alter

them in any way, it can only be by working
on him through his daughter."

And Jack explained again, with certain
amplifications and reservations. " I bet ten
to one you don't enlist him," he went on ; " so
I may tell you what I know him to be, without
the slightest false delicacy. In the first
place, he is a man of the nicest honour, whose
word would be better than his bond to his
employers. At this moment he has resigned
the fruits of a life's labour rather than owe a
shilling beyond what he can pay. Quixotic,
between you and me. But what will you
have? No man is absolutely perfect, and
perfect honesty should be a useful quality in
your factotum. But honourable as he is, he
is a shrewd man of the world, and has been
gathering experience all his days in an unruffled
course of successful adventures. He
used to be hand in glove with every prince
and potentate between the Chinese ports and
the Straits Settlements. His fame would go
before him to Sumatra, if it has not been published
there long ago. He is the very man to
turn your resources to account, — copper, gold,
and diamonds — coal, cotton, nutmegs, cinnamon,

and all the rest of it. He couch make
the coolies and the working folks love him
like their father ; he would put down disturbances
with the strong hand ; he would deal
summarily with the Dutch pretensions they
have no power to enforce. But what am I
dreaming of, and why should I tantalise you ?
Moray has booked a passage for Singapore in
the Fire King, and he is not a man to go back
from his plans. A pity, isn't it ? But it cannot
be helped. But God bless me, Sir Stamford,
I must bid you good night ! Your agreeable
conversation has carried me on to 11.30,
and I have an appointment in Lombard Street
tomorrow before I turn up in Whitehall."

"A moment, Enables — just a moment.
Really I have had no time to think. And
you say there is no hope of treating with Mr
Moray ? "

None whatever, so do not bother about it.
I am really sorry I said anything on the subject.
Unless, indeed," said Jack, coining back
to his companion, whose slow meditations were
outstripped by his volubility — " unless, indeed,
as I said before, anything were to be done
through his daughter; and that seems like

seething the kid in its mother's milk — seducing
Moray through the domestic affections.
Well, good night."

What a hurry you are in ! Sit down fora
moment. You are talking nonsense when
you speak of seducing him through the affections.
If we chose to engage him, we should
make it worth his while — worth any man's
while, — that I can tell you."

Make it worth his while ! " repeated Jack
slowly, subsiding into his seat again. "Make
it worth his while ! Well, as we are upon the
subject, you may give me a notion, once for
all, of the terms the Company would be willing
to offer. They would not sway Moray
from a settled resolution by a hair's-breadth ;
but they might possibly be used as arguments
by his daughter — and, believe me, that Miss
Moray will be our best advocate." Unobserved
by Sir Stamford, it will be seen that Jack had
assumed a tacit solidarity of common interest.

On that hint and in his excitement Sir
Stamford spoke, naming terms which would
have made Jack open his eyes had he not by
an effort half closed them languidly.

That might do," he observed, sleepily.

Do ! I should think so, indeed," growled
Sir Stamford.

Yes ; that might possibly do. But there
would be another point, and of more importance
than mere pecuniary considerations."

And what may that be ? "

"Moray would insist upon having his hands
unfettered, to act as agent and Resident under
unlimited responsibility, for which he must, of
course, be ready to answer. I need hardly
say, that at that distance from headquarters,
the stipulation will be entirely in your own
interest. But as you and I know Moray better
than the Board of Directors — as, in fact, he
would be nominated through your influence,
as your own man — it must be understood that
he may count upon you for arranging that."

Can 3^011 put off your engagement in the
City to - morrow morning ? " demanded Sir
Stamford, abruptly.

It would be awkward and most inconvenient
; but I daresay I could manage it —
that is to say, if I thought it would help you
over your difficulty."

Come to my house, then, at ten o'clock,
and I will give you a more decided answer, sofar

as a single member of the Board may
speak. It would be altogether opposed to my
way of doing business to settle matters of such
importance in a club smoking-room, close upon
the stroke of twelve."

Hooked, by Jove ! " ejaculated Jack, in an
outburst of self-corn placenta and gratitude, as,
taking leave of the City magnate on the club
steps, he saw him safely ensconced in his
brougham. "I don't think he is likely to
break away — but there is no knowing ; and I
wish the morning's interview were well over.
What fools some sharp fellows are, to be sure !
though he may thank his stars if he gets Glenconan
for his Eesident."

Chapter XXVIII.

THE COMPANY'S NEW RESIDENT.

Little did Moray think, as he went down the
steps at the Fenchurch Street Station one
dreary day in November to take a train to the
docks to revisit the Fire King, with feelings
strongly in sympathy with that most dismal
of metropolitan stations — little did he think
that at the very moment he was the subject
of an animated discussion at the Board of the
Sumatra Colonisation Company. So it was,
however : Sir Stamford had " taken him up" ;
and Sir Stamford invariably managed to have
his way with his fellow-directors. After what
we have seen of him, it need not be said that
he was far from an able man ; but he made
none the worse chairman on that account, as
chairmen go. He had the knack of using
other men's brains ; and now he was driving

home all the arguments with which Jack had
primed him two evenings before and in their
subsequent interviews. Indeed he would have
produced Mr Enables in court, had he not
feared to betray himself as the mouthpiece of
a mere boy. Jack would have been immensely
flattered to hear how the chairman echoed and
re-echoed him. Of course Sir Stamford had
been brought to believe in his new protege,
and was persuaded that in sending Moray on
this mission he was doing his best for Sir
Stamford Scraper and his shareholders.

A man of iron, gentlemen — a constitution
case-hardened by long exposure in the East
an unrivalled knowledge of the oriental
trade — a personal acquaintance with half the
potentates there. A born leader of other men
always predisposed to peace from his mercantile
training, but ready to fight should fighting
be indispensable — easy-natured, but with
extraordinary determination of will — great
readiness of resource — the hand of iron under
the glove of silk — the sort of autocrat who
will keep things straight with the European
settlers, and will be worshipped by the natives.
Then he is a gentleman of family and powerful

political connections — a circumstance which,
I need not remind you, may save us, should
there be difficulties raised at home as to our
working the charter."

You know him well, then ?" asked one old
gentleman, innocently. He was an ex-colonial
governor, verging on dotage.

Sir Stamford coughed, but was equal to the
occasion.

Mr Moray has lived much abroad, Sir
George. I cannot boast of so close a personal
acquaintance as I should desire. But I appreciate
his high character thoroughly, and am
glad to say we have not a few intimate friends
in common."

In short, as the upshot of the proceedings,
the Board passed a unanimous resolution that
it would be eminently desirable in the interests
of the Company to engage the services of
David Moray, Esquire of Glenconan, as their
acting manager and Resident in the East.
The Board further granted its chairman discretionary
powers to conduct the negotiations
appointing a special meeting for an early
day to receive and confirm his report.

The first impulse of Jack Enables, when

he had carried off a triumph so brilliant and
unexpected, was to rush away to his cousin
with the joyful news. On second thoughts,
he resolved to restrain himself, and by a sublime
effort of self-sacrifice decided to say
nothing to her in the meantime. Sir Stamford's
advances to her father would be more
of an agreeable surprise ; and it would bethe
better, for the scheme that lay so near to
her heart, that she should be ignorant of the
Company's proposals. She would know well
enough and soon enough who had aided her
so effectually ; and alas ! and after all, what
did it matter?

Moray had come back from the Victoria
Docks almost at the same hour as before ; and
the lunch had, if possible, been rather more
melancholy than on the former occasion. The
day of departure was drawing nigh ; his determination
was firm as ever ; and Grace, to her
sad disappointment, had heard not a word
from Jack. "He may have been able to do
nothing for us," she thought. "I hardly
hoped that he could. But at all events, he
might have sent a message to say he had not
forgotten us," — when a lumbering barouche

drove up to the door, and a bulky footman
descending from the box, performed a tremendous
cacophony on the knocker, which
was out of all proportion to the size of the
house.

Sir Stamford Scraper ! " ejaculated Moray,
glancing at the card. "I know the man byname
; he is on the direction of no end of
companies. Made a fortune, they say, and
perhaps lost it again, by electric lighting.
What can he possibly! want with me ? Ask
the gentleman to walk up-stairs."

Grace muttered something unintelligible,
and clasped her hands nervously under the
table. " A message from Jack," she thought
to herself; and she was sensible of something
like a cold perspiration. Whether she had
suffered or been happy, she would have found
it hard to tell, during the mortal hour and a
quarter during which her father remained
closeted with his visitor.

yet the main points of the business between
the gentlemen had been settled promptly
enough. With all his " bumptiousness," which
may be used for want of a better word, Sir
Stamford was enough of a man of the world

VOL. II. R

to be able to unite suavity to dignity when it
suited him. He thought too well of himself
to be a vulgar toady ; but he could be
winningly courteous to his superiors, or to
men whom he hoped to use. And Jack had
sounded Glenconan's trumpet to such purpose,
that Sir Stamford came prepared to soothe
the chieftain's Highland pride. Nothing could
be in better taste than his self-introduction :
there was a happy mixture of respect with
courtly friendliness.

"The object of my visit must be my apology
for presenting myself unceremoniously ;
though I need hardly say how gratified I feel
at any opportunity which enables me to improve
my acquaintance with Mr Moray. We
have met at dinner more than once, as perhaps
you may remember."

Moray, as it happened, did not remember ;
but he bowed, and begged his visitor to be
seated. Thereupon Sir Stamford, full of his
purpose, went straight to his point without
circumlocution.

It would be little to say that Moray was
taken aback ; he was astounded. By this time
he thought he had pretty nearly " creed his

penance," as the Scotch say, for any indiscretions
of his early youth. And in the thick
darkness that had been gathering about him —
in the dismal sense of approaching separation
from all in the world he loved most clearly, —
he had begun to doubt of a beneficent Providence.
He had striven his best to acquiesce
in its decrees : he had reminded himself that he
was being purged of the faults he had lamented.
All the same, he had been murmuring ; and
for the life of him, he could not help it. The
friends in whom he had trusted had failed
him — they had given him little but fair words ;
and he had taken his passage for the East in
desperation and as a pis alter, with the prospect
of groping in the decline of his life after
the fortune he had followed in his youth so
cheerily.

Now all seemed likely to change as by an
enchanter's spell, and the recollection of his
doubts and fears humiliated him. Faithless
and unbelieving, the way had nevertheless
been opened up ; and the worldly-minded and
prosaic Sir Stamford was the messenger selected
by Providence. Such a post as the
smooth-spoken Baronet came to offer him was

the very position he would have desired. It
offered his ambition noble opportunities : it
left his arms free ; he might do much to retrieve
his fortunes and secure a competency
for his beloved daughter; he might do more
in a few years as a benevolent despot in the
Malay Archipelago, than he could accomplish
as a private individual through a lifetime in
East London. For the bank, devouring monster
as it might be, could hardly swallow more
than he at present possessed. Had Sir Stamford
known all, he might have spared much of
his breath ; he had caught his fish ere the net
had well been cast.

But knowing nothing of what was passing
in Moray's mind — and as the canny Scot,
though perfectly civil, retained his mask and
kept his own sage counsel — Sir Stamford was
lavish of satisfactory pledges.

I need not say," he went on, confidentially,
that I am aware we must pay for such a
man as you. It would be the worst economy
driving too close a bargain with any gentleman
we send out on so important a mission.
You must know something of the resources
we hope to develop ; and if we are to achieve

a great success, they ought to be developed
speedily. In our territory of Sarambang,
which stretches along the sea-coast for fifty
miles or more, and covers heaven only knows
how many square leagues, the natural riches,
I believe, are practically inestimable. We
can grow anything from cotton and sugar to
cloves, cinnamon, and nutmegs. The streams
that may be applied to purposes of irrigation
run sometimes over sands of gold, or more
often through the deep alluvial deposits containing
the germs of still greater natural
riches." There Sir Stamford, in opening the
flood-gates of his eloquence, was quoting from
the Company's original prospectus — which, be
it said by the way, was based on reports more
reliable than is generally the case in similar
productions.

As Moray listened with close attention,
from time to time throwing in an observation
or asking a question, the chairman came to
believe in him more and more. He had
evidently all the threads of oriental commerce
at his finger-ends : he would know how to
pull them in time and place. Thence Sir
Stamford passed on to the political situation.

There were native chiefs to be conciliated or
subsidised, as economically as possible. There
were formidable neighbours, with hereditary
piratical proclivities, who must either be kept
at bay or crushed in case of need. There
was the Dutch Government, which claimed a
shadowy sovereignty over great part of the
great island of Sumatra, even in districts
whither it had never sent a soldier, and where
it had never shown its tricolour. The Dutch
had no well-founded pretension to any part of
the lands embraced in the Company's concession.
Nevertheless they might possibly give
trouble, as there was little question they
would desire to do.

On that dark and delicate political ground,
Moray showed himself even more at home than
in commercial matters.

I ought to know the Malay nature," he
said ; " I have lived and fought and traded
among Malays for a good part of my life."

Then he went on to talk of the intricacies
of Straits politics, which would be useful precedents
for conducting affairs in Sumatra.
"For those Malay princes," he went on, "are
pretty much the same all over the world.

Fanatics in religion when it suits their purpose,
though their creed sits lightly enough
on their consciences ; pirates ever willing to
make prey of the weak, always ready to knock
under to resolution and rifled guns ; and ruling
their subjects with such a rod of iron, that
their subjects are always eager to slip their
necks out of the collar. Nowhere is honesty
a better policy with all classes, so long as
honesty is backed up by pluck, and power,
and unflinching will."

As he uttered that uncompromising maxim,
his rugged features and honest grey eyes
lighted up with so stern a gleam of determination,
that Sir Stamford for the moment
was afraid of him. Consequently he respected
him more and more ; though he felt like the
lion - tamer who had got hold of a noble
animal, that on the faintest provocation might
turn again and rend him.

He by no means liked being overawed, and
was not sorry to change the subject, now he
was persuaded that the future of the Company
was safe in the firm hands to which he was to
confide it.

Well, my dear sir, there will doubtless be

details to be discussed with the directors.
They will like to have their say on the subject,
though we may consider everything
practically settled. In fact, they have given
me carte blanche to treat, by a unanimous
resolution of the Board. And I can hardly
perhaps pay a higher tribute to your business
qualities when I remind you, that though
you have gained my entire confidence, not a
word has passed between us as to pay and
appointments."

Moray laughed.

It is an oversight I should never have
deemed I could be guilty of. It is not my
habit — be assured of that. But que voulez
For a year or two now, I have been
out of the way of trading ; " and he added,
with a somewhat melancholy smile, " I was
learning to comport myself as a gentleman of
fortune. Moreover, I was persuaded by your
talk from the first, that such a Company under
a chairman of such intelligent views could
not fail to be sufficiently liberal. And I am
bound to add," he went on, in a burst of his
natural frankness, " that the situation you
offered suited my ideas so well, that the pay,

important as it is, became somewhat of a
secondary consideration."

Nothing could have better shown the progress
that Moray had made in the dogmatic
opinion of the self-important chairman, than
the fact that this rash avowal did not affect him
unfavourably. The day before, it would have
been a good reason for lowering the terms ;
now, if anything, it tended to raise them.
He had hit upon the shrewdest of men of the
world, who would, notwithstanding, set the interests
of the Company before his own. After
all, a trifle of pay more or less meant nothing
to the personal dividends of the chairman ;
while a man who could make the Company
flourish was veritably a pearl of inestimable
price.

Well, the matter has been left in some
measure in my hands, and perhaps you may
have seen by this time that I am not one
to haggle with such a man as you. What
say you to a fixed allowance of £2500 per
annum? There is a Government House, and
a monthly allowance which you may fix yourself
to cover the table — for you will be expected
to entertain your subordinates, and

give your secretary, &c., the run of } 7 our
larder. Besides that, you have two per centon
the net profits of all exports from the
Settlement. At the lowest figures of late
years, it should come to nearly as much as
your fixed salary ; with management like
yours it may be ever so much more. So
give me your hand on it, and let us clench
our bargain."

Moray gave his hand, and gripped that of
the other man with a fervour that touched
him in more ways than one. He felt inclined
to blow his smarting fingers ; and at
the same time, he liked the warmth of the
grasp. It seemed to him as if this lion of
the jungles was licking the liberal hand that
fed him. A thought occurred to him on the
spur of the moment.

And now, my dear Mr Moray, that weare
friends for life, I hope, as well as political
and commercial partners, may I beg a favour
of you in the name of the Board ? It strikes
me that, in the interests of the shareholders
and their shares, an appointment like this
should be solemnised with some ceremony.
Will you give us the pleasure of your company

at a little banquet before you sail?
Place, the Albion in Alternate Street ; time,
to be arranged in consultation with my colleagues."


Moray made a wry face ; but it was no time
to stand upon trifles. "Of course I shall
come, and with great pleasure, Sir Stamford,
since you ask me. But I must warn you
that, like Moses, I am no orator; and that
if you parade your lawgiver and leader in
public, you will probably show him to disadvantage."


Oh, I will be your Aaron, and say anything
you may leave unsaid," returned Sir
Stamford, with infinite readiness. "I don't
want to flatter you ; but simply showing the
leading shareholders the new Eesident will
send up the shares in anticipation of the
future."

"Be it as you will," said Moray, smiling.
If you think showing your Sumatra shareholders
a Highland deer-stalker will have such
an effect, it would be childish indeed to refuse
to parade myself. But by the way,
Sir Stamford, and at the risk of falling further
in your good opinion, there is another question

I had forgotten. I have been so absorbed
in the object of your visit, that I have never
asked to what or to whom I am indebted
for it."

"Oh, ah, very true," said Sir Stamford,
stammering. To tell the truth, in his satisfaction
at having made prize of Moray, he
had forgotten Mr Enables, and was very
willing to forget him. " Ah, very true : well,
the fact is, that I had long known Mr Moray
most favourably by reputation. Mr Winstanley,
and other men connected with the
East, have often spoken of you. But I confess
it was a chance, more than anything
else, that put our present fortunate arrangement
into my head. I chanced to meet a
young friend of mine and a connection of
yours at a club the other night — young Enables.
We got talking about Sumatra and
oriental trade, and somehow your name came
up. The hint was enough for me, and on the
hint I acted."

Moray saw it all, and his first impression
was one of mortification. The world had indeed
been turned topsy-turvy with him, since
the day, not so very long ago, when he had

been patronising an impetuous boy in the
plenitude of his wealth and wisdom. Now
the boy had "been" and helped him to such
a position as he had hardly dared to covet.
There was a passing impulse to throw up the
whole affair; but then he thought of Grace,
and almost simultaneously of good Jack Enables.
To dream of refusing his help in the
circumstances — to reject his warm-hearted
services on the score of his youth — could only
be a temptation of the devil. What a pity
it was that Grace could not love the boy, and
lighten an almost intolerable load of obligation
! Well, there was time to think about
all that ; and it reminded him that Grace
must be on the tenter-hooks of expectation.
Though they were living in very modest lodgings,
it was only due to Sir Stamford, humbugs
his last confession might make him appear,
to introduce him formally to his daughter.

And Grace's gratitude and cordiality — for
she had not, like her father, got a glimpse
behind the scenes — confirmed the Baronet in
his friendly feelings. He thought the better
of himself, if possible, for being in a position
to patronise these interesting proteges.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CUP AND THE LIP.

Oh, Jack," was all Grace's greeting to her
cousin when he made his appearance at the
lodgings in Bury Street, late in the afternoon,
on the day of Sir Stamford's call. At
first her heart was too full for words ; but her
looks were more eloquent than any speech
could have been. She found her voice subsequently,
and had enough to say ; but that
look and simple ejaculation were more than
sufficient for Mr Enables. For once he stammered,
and was almost as tongue-tied as she ;
for once he honestly tried to make little of his
services, instead of magnifying them. It was
waste of breath, and perhaps he was not sorry.
Grace would not have it : she would not hear
of the arrangement being due to a happy accident
; nor did he care to boast of the subtle

diplomacy by which he had brought Sir Stamford
to the point, by judiciously befalling
him. Remembering what she had refused
him, and how he had repaid her, she glorified
his generosity more and more, as her emotions
fairly got the mastery. She hardly knew
what she said, yet her eyes said more than
her lips. How far Leslie would have liked it,
I cannot say. He would have been less than
man had he not been jealous ; and never had
his lady - love looked more beautiful. For
once he was altogether out of her mind ; yet
all the time her heart was true to him. Had
Jack been given over to his old self-seeking —
had he been so far left to himself, encouraged
by her praises and her smiles, as to say a word
of the old love, or to hint at the old suit, —
he would have lost in one second all he had
gained. It was his grand disinterestedness
she exalted and adored ; and though she spoke
of love, she only liked him.

Nor did Jack, who had been studying his
cousin pretty closely of late, fail to comprehend
her. All the same, he enjoyed those
first-fruits of his kind action. He had made
up his mind heroically to spare nothing in her

service : it was no fault of his if success had
come so easily, and it was only right that she
should take the will for the deed. So, like a
cat basking in the sun, and being delightfully
stroked and tickled, he rolled himself over
metaphorically, and abandoned himself to the
caresses.

And as the French proverb says the appetite
comes in eating, Jack enjoyed the luxury of
doing good actions so much that he determined
again I follow the French— not to pull up in a
path so seductive. Already an idea had flashed
to his receptive brain, that he might handsomely
complete his work by coming to an understanding
with Ralph Leslie. As to that he said
nothing to Grace. He had learned already
that in that Machiavellian benevolence of his,
silence and surprises were half the battle.

Leslie had already heard the good news from
Moray. He would have been more than mortal
had he not received them with mingled feelings.
He heartily congratulated his uncle and
his friend ; but he had a sickening sinking at
the heart when he thought of himself and his
fortune. Moray seemed made independent of
his sympathy and self-sacrifice — though of

that, as he flattered himself, he felt unfeignedly
glad. But on the other hand, although
Moray had said nothing on the subject, he had
a sad foreboding that Grace was to go from
him ; and God only knew what might happen
in her absence. He must leave everything to
God ; but meantime he must be content to
suffer. Then how he did envy Jack Enables !
He almost feared that he hated him. There
are some men born to luck in this world ; while
others are the hapless victims of their destiny.
He would have sacrificed everything he possessed
to help his uncle and Grace. In fact,
he had given up all he possessed, and was
wearing himself out in a garret — it really was
a tolerably comfortable set of rooms — that he
might get a living by literature and poetry,
when the fortunate Mr Jack Amenable swaggers
in, and by the simple breath of his mouth
changes everything as by enchantment. Truly
the luck of some men was wonderful, and altogether
out of proportion to their merits.

Thus ruminating, he heard a familiar knock ;
and his impulse was to ring and bid the servant
deny him. Second and better thoughts
prevailed. " Let Jack come up and parade

VOL. II. s

his good deeds ; it is only the foretaste of my
future sufferings."

Jack did come up ; but he came in like a
breath of June, rather than the rough March
whirlwind Leslie had apprehended. His manner
was almost deprecating ; he was evidently
ill at ease.

"You have heard the news about Glenconan
? " he asked.

I have ; our uncle has just been with me.
He well knew how deeply I was interested ;
and I need not say how glad I am."

But as he spoke, he felt he lied ; and he knew
well that his looks belied him. Jack smiled,
and began to be more at his ease.

You are glad of course, because you always
think of others before yourself; but between
ourselves, and in the frankness of friendship, it
brings rather a heavy blow on you."

"It is a sad separation, and I am sorry to
see them go ; but in the circumstances, I can
conceive of nothing better for him."

No doubt. And this engagement of his
will be a blessing to Grace ; for she will insist
on his taking her with him, and I am persuaded
he will not refuse."

So I supposed," exclaimed Leslie, almost
savagely. He winced under Jack's remark,
which he found equally true and ill-timed.

It was the show of irritation for which Jack
had manoeuvred. He threw himself back in
his chair, and looked full in his friend's face.

My dear old fellow, let us have done once
for all with this nonsense, which is unworthy
of the like of us. Let us play our cards down
on the table. I loved Grace dearly ; I found
she loved you passionately, and only liked
me ; I have given her up. I know in my conscience
she has chosen wisely ; I have never
forgotten that day above Lochrosque. You
will have her for your wife and your life-companion,
and an angel does not fall to the lot of
every man. You surely do not grudge me the
poor satisfaction of sparing her the separation
from her father, and smoothing the way to her
marriage."

I never asked her for my wife," murmured
Leslie.

"You have only to ask and to have : 'tis I
who tell you so ; though it may be a work
of supererogation confirming you in your
convictions. Yes, you and Grace will be

happy ; and so shall I, in my own way and
somewhat later."

Leslie, though wretched enough in the
meantime, on his own account, felt a great
pity for Jack at losing Grace, and, like Grace,
was so deeply touched, that he felt it difficult
to express himself. In his forgetfulness that
circumstances had been fast moulding and
purifying the other man, he reproached himself
for having so much undervalued him.

You make far too much of that little affair
on Lochrosque. I only did what any one
else might have done ; and now, at all events,
you have wiped off the score, and left a heavy
balance on the other side."

Let that flea stick to the wall, as Donald
Eoss would say. I know all about that day,
and so does Donald. But I had wellnigh
forgotten what I have come specially to speak
about. There is no time to be lost, as to
making your arrangements for going out with
the Morays."

For going out with the Morays ! " echoed
Ralph. "What in the world do you mean,
Jack?"

What I say," answered Jack, sharply.

You have been our uncle's right-hand man
all through this bank business. You are engaged,
or as good as engaged, to his daughter.
You have nothing I know of to keep you now
in this country — all the liquidation business
can be done by deputy or correspondence ; soif
I were in your shoes, I should volunteer for
Sumatra."

"And in what capacity, may I ask?" responded
Leslie, half inquiringly, half incredulously.


Why, as the new Eesident's secretary.
The place, so far as I know, has not been yet
filled up. It is quite indispensable that the
Eesident should have a secretary ; and the
Board, you may be certain, will not interfere
with his choice."

Leslie sat silent and reflecting. The visions
of bliss opened before him dazzled him : a long
sea voyage in the society of Grace ; a family
life under the roof with Grace and her father ;
the assurance that, should it please him to ask
her hand, neither she nor yet her father would
refuse it. And all this was planned for him
by his generous rival, who could do more in
his favour than any one else. He sat silent

and reflecting still ; but lest Jack should
possibly deem him ungrateful, he reached
out a hand.

Whereupon Jack warmed up, becoming at
once practical and playful.

"Nothing; in this world could have turned
out more happily for you, my dear boy. The
moment you get the appointment, — and that,
as I need hardly repeat to you, is safe — for
think what a blessing your collaboration will
be to Glenconan, — the moment you get the
appointment, your marriage is as good as
arranged. It is all a question of delicacy and
the opportune moment. Then your health
comes in. You know what Cutler told you —
that you were as strong as I, or Glenconan,
or Donald Eoss, but that change of scene and
distraction from care were imperative. Well,
by what we propose, your anxieties disappear ;
and as for change of scene, you will have
enough of that in all conscience. I don't
know how that poem of yours may have
progressed. I am quite sure that if you stay
on in town, it might be your elegy and
inscribed on your tombstone ; but only think
of the inspirations you may draw from moonlight

and cool shadows under the noonday
blaze in the spice-groves of the South and the
tropical forests ! "

Leslie smiled, and naturally yielded to the
seductions.

But you are aware how Moray's difficulties
arose ; and you know, too, that duty bids me
see him through them."

Perhaps ; though that is a question for
casuists. But how, may I ask, can you help
him better, while his liquidation hangs on
hand and drags on, than by accepting a certain
income with free quarters, and leaving your
leisure moments at liberty for literary pursuits?
You have been living, as I know, parsimoniously
on your rental. Now you may leave
it to accumulate against contingencies. Besides,
if you owe something to your notions
of honour, you owe much more to Grace.
How would she feel when her father's affairs
are straightened out, as I have no doubt they
will be, if you had made an unhappy despatch
of yourself in the meantime by working or
worrying yourself to death ? "

It need hardly be said that Leslie yielded
to reasoning which was so strongly backed up

by his inclinations. It need hardly be said
that Moray was only too happy to take a fast
friend with him to the antipodes as secretary,
sympathiser, and confidential adviser. There
had been no further question as to his child
accompanying him now. He had merely made
some faint resistance for form's sake. And ashe
felt that her marriage with Ralph Leslie
was preordained, it would be well for her
happiness that her lover should accompany
them. Besides, if he could assist Leslie to
a new career, he owed it to him, since Leslie's
rental had been given up to a reserve fund for
the liquidators to draw upon.

So the articles of agreement were signed
and sealed. The Board of the Sumatra Company
gave a superb banquet to the new Resident,
at which Moray spoke with knowledge
and sound sense, which recommended him
alike to directors and shareholders ; at which
Sir Stamford spoke diffusely, more to his own
enjoyment than that of his audience ; and at
which Mr Leslie, as the Resident's secretary,
was likewise landed upon his legs.

The departure was, on the whole, less sad
than might have been expected. Moray's

spirits had risen with the relief from the depression
of inactivity; his heart beat high
with his hopes of an active and useful career,
in which he might win fame with a second
fortune. Then he had regained the daughter
he half feared he had lost. As for Grace, she
had won her point, and was going in the company
of her father and her lover to visit the
fairyland of the southern tropics. While Leslie,
already a different man, with health in his face,
and elasticity in his muscles, had been lifted
up to the seventh heaven of happiness. He
was ashamed that he did not feel more deeply
at parting with his mother — the more so that
the lady had been detained in the North by
a sharp attack of influenza ; but though he
loved her dearly, he could not help himself,
and then he hoped to see her again very
speedily.

And, with a single exception, the little
group of friends who had come on board to
bid good-bye to the travellers, had no special
reason for being in low spirits. There were
Sir Stamford and a brother director, ex officio,
who, of course, had no cause to feel anything
but pleased, and whose presence was a check

on any possible effusiveness. There was Winstanley,
saying everything that was polite and
kind, repeating his assurances as to taking
every care of everything and everybody at
Glenconan, but as cheerful as the chairman of
the Sumatra Company. There was Julia, occasionally
whispering into Grace's ear, and weeping
on her neck, when at last she took leave
of her ; but perhaps not altogether sorry, for
private reasons of her own, that her fascinating
friend was booked for the antipodes.
And there was Jack Enables, rather more
voluble and decidedly more noisy than was
natural even to him ; though a close observer
Miss Winstanley, for example — might have
remarked that his volubility came by fits and
starts And he was silent and distracted fora
time, though with a saddening sense of happiness,
when Leslie, leading him aside, fairly
broke down in vain efforts to express his devoted
gratitude.

o

"That day on Lochrosque ! — that day on
Lochrosque ! " he ejaculated, in answer to
Jack's reminder. "It is unworthy of your
good sense, Jack, to be perpetually harping
upon that. I say, in the words of the warlike

Israelitish Judge, ' What have I done in comparison
of you ? ' and you know that I am
speaking the truth. No fellow ever acted
more nobly than you have done ; and it is the
more to your credit, though very little to
mine, that only a year ago I did not believe
it was in you. For the future, behave as
you will, I at least can never misunderstand
you."

Have it your own way, then, my good fellow
— have it your own way," answered Jack,
lightly, returning the grasp of his friend with
one hand, while he passed the other rapidly
over his eyes. " But heaven keep us in our
senses ! what have we here ? "

For Leslie had chosen that the interview
should take place in the bustle, while the
steamer was casting off her moorings in the
docks, and most people were occupied about
their own concerns. And the interview had
been interrupted by a tall Scotch deer-hound,
that had charged Mr Enables in a transport
of excitement, and now, with a paw upon each
shoulder, was rubbing a muzzle against his
cheeks.

Bran here ! Bran on the Fire King ! Then

be sure that Donald Eoss cannot be far off.
And there the villain is — see, Ralph, behind
the funnel, looking half proud and more than
half ashamed of himself ! "

Perceiving that he had been detected, Donald
shuffled forward. His honest face flushed
up with pleasure for a moment at the cordial
greeting of his two young friends ; yet Donald
was sad, and looked almost as careworn as
Leslie had seemed but a fortnight before. Ashe
told his master afterwards, who was more
moved than he would have cared to own, at
the unexpected meeting —

"You see, Glenconan, I could not put up
with the thought that you would be going
away again, though but for a bit, and me
never to set eyes upon you. Then there was
Miss Grace too — my blessing on the face of
her. I would be minding it well, she might
be sure, when she was far away, and yet I was
fond to get another glimpse at it. So I sat
down and wrote privately to the English
young lady, and she was very kind and spoke
to the gentleman, and he gave me permission
to come away, and promised to say nothing of
my coming. But it's a sore heart I have this

day, Grlenconan, and this day the glen will
be a valley of weeping."

Glenconan was much touched and somewhat
remorseful. In the excitement of his
new hopes he had half forgotten to be sorry,
partly perhaps because his sanguine nature
was already predicting a happy home-coming.
But the simple grief of the poor dependants he
was leaving was a reproach to him, though
God knew he had felt for them deeply, so long
as he had believed himself to be ruined. And
besides, the apparition of the old keeper and
the presence of Bran, who was now fawning
and crouching at his feet in the little cabin,
came to him in a fresh breath from his native
hills, and brought a flood of bright and sad
reminiscences. Donald, with his native
shrewdness and delicacy, read what was passing
in his master's mind, though he waited
respectfully for the master to speak.

I know, Donald — I know it well ; and my
own heart would be wellnigh broken but that
I believe that things are brightening for us.
You must tell them all that I look forward
to a happy return, and that we will have
greater doings next time than the last."

He knew that his words were commonplace,
but what better could he say ? Though he felt
to Donald as to an old friend, it was not in
his nature to unbosom himself to an inferior :
as it was, he had been more sentimental than
was his habit. He was a man of generous
deeds and deep feelings, rather than of smooth
phrases. But Donald, who had been only
waiting the opportunity, broke out in words
of such absolute confidence in Glenconan's
return, that in that hour of farewells they
came as omens of encouragement destined to
recur to his memory in his exile. And Donald
ended realistically —

And we will be gathering the oak out of
the bog-s and stacking; the old fir-roots against
the day when we will have the whole of the
country in a blaze, from the rocks of Loch-mosque
to the cairn upon Funachan."

When the friends of the travellers were
getting ready to go ashore at Gravesend,
Donald, in spite of the sorrows of the parting,
was a proud and comparatively a happy man.
Were not the words of his master ringing in
his ears, " Your visit has done me a world of
good " ? and did not he carry away as a remembrance

from his young mistress, with
whom he had a long and confidential tete-tete,
the very bit of blue ribbon she had been
wearing round her beautiful neck ? The only
"scene" was made by Bran, and Bran, not
unreasonably jealous of Finette — who had
been adopted so unaccountably as one of the
travelling party — crept under the sofa in his
master's cabin, and showed his teeth when
they tried to prevail upon him to come forth.
The dog knew well that Glenconan was going ;
and Donald, hurt at the preference, for once
had spoken to him roughly.

The boat from Gravesend was rowed alongside,
and a clerk, clambering up the side, held
out a telegram. " Mr Ralph Leslie on board ?"
he asked, in a business-like manner — the impassible
messenger of fate. Ralph seized the
parti coloured envelope with a sad foreboding,
and tore it open with trembling fingers.

Pray hold on with the boat for a moment.
I shall go ashore with you."

He pulled himself together with an effort.
With that mob of people curiously looking on,
it was neither the time nor the place for a
display of feeling. There was no time for

explanations. He passed the telegram to the
astonished Moray, and Grace read it over her
father's shoulder. He rushed down to his
cabin, shouted for a steward, and returned on
deck carrying his smaller luggage. A hurried
leave-taking ; a hasty half - embrace of
Grace — some hundred pairs of eyes were
centred on them ; a final clutch of the hand
from her father, with a " Not good-bye, my
dear boy, but au revoir" — and Ralph was
almost tumbled down the ladder by the impatient
officer on duty. As the boat shoved
off and the steamer forged ahead, there was
an exclamation from one of the men — " Look
to the lady ! she has fainted ! "

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

Zf

ft

m

'A

m

r

&k*m

*M

A rSM

4k

JWh

"■

/ ;*



ji

';^ Jii*5^<<?^4^^I-ii«r i^^c - ^^^^i^

^L I E> RAR.Y

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of Ill Noise

^•3

ver

.-i*.

-<^-^

^^^^M

A '\

t^.

:i^

\-

»■

f/€"^-^'

ny

^/7
/

r

/

/

z^^:^ -^ >\;

For man is man, and master of his fate."

—oneida

NO VEL

ALEX. INNES Hand

AUTHOR OF
'against time,' 'letters from west IRELAND,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD Aid SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVI

\) 3>

CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAP.

XXX. THE POET IN THE PROVINCES, .
XXXI. A LION IN LONDON,
XXXII. "jack has an INSPIRATION," .
XXXIII. THE BATTLE OF BALLYSLATTERY,
XXXIV. STARTLING INTELLIGENCE FROM Sang,
XXXV. LESLIE LISTENS TO A CONFESSION, .
Xxxvi PENITENT AND CONFESSOR,

xxxvi. MISS Moray's irish champion,

XXXVIII. A MODERN EVEHNE BERENGER,

XXXIX. PRIZE OF WAR,

XL. THE SACK OF Sang,

XLI. THE RESCUE,

XLII. MARRIED IN HASTE,

XLIII. MARRIED AT LEISURE,

XLIV. L'ENVOI,




















Chapter XXX.

THE POET IN THE PROVINCES.

Come to the ' Falcon,' Eal23h, and sit down
a little," said Jack Enables, with unwonted
tenderness. " It does not matter much by
what train we go back to town, since you can
only go north by the night express."

But already beginning to recover from the
shock which had stunned him, Ralph merely
shook his head. And when Jack repeated the
suggestion as they stepped ashore, he said,
No ; movement is the best thing for me
now. As yet, I dare not sit still and
think."

VOL. III. A

Indeed the blow that had struck him so
unseasonably was a heavy one, and might
well shake his manhood for the moment.
Yet though the contents of the telegram
were most unexpected, there was nothing
sensationally unnatural in them. The illness
he had made light of had taken a serious
turn. Mrs Leslie had an attack of inflammation
of the lungs ; and although, knowing all
the circumstances, she had expressed no wish
to see her son, yet the relative in attendance
on her had felt bound to telegraph.

Thank heaven, the telegram reached mein
time," moaned Kalph, as he kept firm hold
of Jack's arm. " Though I would to God
Grace had not fainted. He knows I have
enough to bear without that."

"As to Grace fainting," said Jack, "you
could hardly have expected or wished anything
else. Think how sudden it all was.
The dear girl is not of iron, as you know ;
and you yourself, with all your nerve, have
been very sufficiently shaken. Grief of that
kind does not hurt, and the worst that can
possibly happen is that the pleasure of her
voyage will be spoiled. She will remember,

on second thoughts, that she leaves you in
perfect health ; and will look forward to your
being soon reunited — possibly by the next
steamer."

"It is not of Grace I am thinking," said
poor Ralph, rather inconsistently, "it is my
mother."

Though indeed his predominant feeling was
one of bitter self-reproach at having made
light of the illness which he now exaggerated.
Heartless and ungrateful son as he had been,
he was very deservedly punished. There too,
Jack, understanding his feelings, was ready
to act the comforter, and he spoke with a
decision of purpose that was not without
its effect.

My dear fellow, you see everything in
sinister lights at present, and no wonder.
But for your own sake, and for Grace's, and
above all for Mrs Leslie's, do not give way to
morbid self-reproach. You know as well as I,
that no mortal could have foreseen this. Influenzas
are of everyday occurrence, and you
have always told me that your mother's constitution
is excellent. You have nothing to
reproach yourself with, and even now there is

every reason to hope that her strength will
throw off the illness. I know something of
both your pluck and your Christianity. Take
comfort and courage, and put your trust in
Providence. In a few days you may look
back upon all this as only a cause for gratitude.
In a few days Mrs Leslie may be
pronounced out of danger. . In a few days
you will certainly have a reassuring telegram
from Gibraltar, whither you can send any
messages you please. Meantime, I need not
tell you to be a man ; but remember you have
a journey before you, and a trying meeting at
the end of it. You will dine with me quietly
in my rooms, and I shall either see you safe
off from King's Cross or go with you to Scotland,
as you prefer."

Mr Enables felt rather abroad in the unfamiliar
character of the preacher, but he was
pleased to see the good effect of his words.
Leslie did turn his thoughts to Providence,
and resolved in calm acquiescence to brace
himself for the better or the worse. With
great external composure, though in profoundly
melancholy mood, he entered the railway carriage
with the rest of the party. Nor was that

effort, though perhaps unnecessary, without its
immediate reward. Sir Stamford, to whom
Miss Winstanley had been paying court in
the meantime, had been really touched by the
tragic little incident to which she had given
him the clue. With his many weaknesses, he
was a good-natured man. He had taken an
opportunity of whispering with his brother
director ; and on taking leave of Leslie in
London, he stammered out some words he
meant for sympathy, though he was embarrassed
by having been bound over to secrecy.
Then he added, that if Mr Leslie pleased to
arrange matters with Mr Moray, the Board
would gladly give him any reasonable leave
of absence before taking up his appointment.
So far as he could judge, on brief acquaintance,
both the Board and the Resident would
gladly submit to some temporary inconvenience,
to secure the assistance of so capable a
gentleman.

Eal23h made Sir Stamford a friend for life,
by thanking him with real fervour. Indeed
before the chairman knew that he was helping
forward a true love affair, it had struck him
that a man of Leslie's stamp might have done

much better, and that he was stooping to take
this secretaryship in the far south. As for
Leslie, the chairman's timely thoughtfulness
came as a great relief. It would have added
infinitely to the pains of suspense, had he
feared that his appointment might be filled
up in the meantime — had the sentence of
separation been indefinitely protracted* by
depriving him of the reason for going to
Sumatra as an inmate of the Resident's
house.

He did not choose to let Jack accompany
him to the north, but nevertheless he had a
travelling companion. When poor Donald
knew that it was Miss Grace who had fainted,
he was thrown into terrible trouble. Swoons
are serious things in the Highlands, where
they mean the shattering of an oak rather
than the bending of a sapling, and it took a
good deal to reassure him. Then he transferred
his anxiety to the young laird of Eood-
holm with whom he had a fellow-feeling in the
circumstances.

It might be that Mr Yenables was right.
He dared to say he knew a deal about many
things. But if Miss Grace were but to twist

her little finger, she was worth making a work
about ; and he liked Mr Leslie all the better
for it, and him with his mind, too, "full of his
mother."

Donald looked so wistfully forlorn when
they reached London, that Jack willingly
assented to a suggestion of Leslie's, and asked
him to join them at dinner in his rooms.
When this humble friend understood that he
was actually invited to sit down at table with
'the gentlemen," although immensely flattered,
he protested strongly and resisted
stoutly. But Jack would not be denied ; and
he had a winningly commanding way with
him in the circumstances.

Hoot, Donald, man ; it won't be the first
time by many that you and Mr Leslie and I
have eaten and drunk together. It's no use
your saying that it was different on the hillside
: so far as I can see, there isn't a hair of
difference. Besides," he added confidentially,
you will be doing him a real kindness. He
and I have had our cracks out ; and we
mustn't let him go on talking about melancholy
subjects. You come and dine, and
bring Bran, and we will carry him away among

US to Lochrosque and Glenconan, and freshen
him up a bit for his travel."

"Then in troth, Mr Enables, I will do as
you wish. But there was one other thing, sir,
that I had been thinking of."

What was that, Donald ? "

It was just this, sir. I was thinking that
Mr Leslie would be lonesome-like through the
night ; and he's not looking altogether himself,
moreover. And they'll be wanting me
down at Glenconan ; and I have done all that
I came south to do, and seen as much as I had
wished. So I was thinking that I would betaking
the same train myself, if your honours
had got nothing to say against it."

But, Donald, my good fellow, you have
never been in London before ; and you must
have a look round the sights before you go
back again."

"deed, sir, and very truly, I have but
small stomach for the sights ; and it is a sore
heart that this clay has given me. No ; I will
be going" back to the north this nio-ht, though
I would not wish to be any trouble to Mr
Leslie."

Well, since you will have it, and between

you and me, I really think it a capital idea.
And when you come south on your next visit,
as you shall do by-and-by, to me, and at my
expense — mind that — we shall go and see
everything that is worth the seeing. Who
knows but you may meet Grlenconan and Miss
Grace ? I should not be surprised for one.
Somehow, I don't think they will be long
away this time."

"And may God bless you for that word,
sir," said Donald, grinning with delight.
And when that day does come, there's but
one sight in London I should greatly care
for."

To any one who knew nothing of the Highlanders,
it would have been strange to see the
keeper at the little dinner. A Southern of
similar station would have sat awkwardly on
the edge of his chair, eaten little, said less, and
pained his companions by his awkward embarrassment.
Donald Eoss, in all essential respects,
was the high-bred though simple-mannered
Highland gentleman. It almost seemed
as if he were trying to set his superiors at their
ease, and very entirely he succeeded. Without
putting himself forward in the least, he spoke

manfully and modestly. Jack and he at first
sustained the conversation ; but Leslie, who
had sat listening, gradually joined in. When
he spoke of things in the north, of course
Donald was at home ; and when Jack drew
him out on his impressions of travel and the
metropolis, his quaint but intelligent remarks
were irresistibly amusing. Nothing Yenables
could have devised could have done Leslie
more good, or so quickly restored the manly
tone of his mind. So much so, that when he
was told of Donald's proposal, he was by no
means too proud to acknowledge that he
should be orlad to have his stanch hill-friend
as a travelling companion. " He and Bran
are like things belonging to Grace," he said
afterwards to Jack, half apologetically. But
he made it a condition that Donald should
spend the rest of his leave as a guest under
his mother's roof at Eoodholm.

You won't have a merry time of it,
Donald, worse luck ; but I could never let
you go by my doorstep. We do not meet
with friends like you every day, and when
we do come across them, we are bound to
make much of them,"

And if Donald could have made himself
easy about Miss Grace, it was himself, ashe
might have said, would have been the
happy man that night.

As for things at Koodholm, they were better
than Leslie could have hoped. Thanks
to her constitution and to excellent nursing,
Mrs Leslie had been pronounced out of immediate
danger. Leeches had pulled her
through, but she was greatly weakened by
the attack ; for she had suffered much, and
still suffered intensely, from the thought of
the ruin she had innocently brought pn her
brother and his daughter.

Agere her mind once at ease, Mr Ralph,"
said the old country doctor, " she would want
little of our medicine or yet of our looking
after. As it is, and at her time of life, we
will have an uphill job before we see her
herself again ; but you will be a better
doctor than me, and it "was just her salvation
that telegram catching you before you
started."

Mr Ralph was much of the same opinion.
His mother professed herself grieved at his
having come back ; at his having jeopardy his

appointment, and separated from his cousin —
for it need hardly be said that her maternal
sagacity had long before penetrated the secret
of his attachment. But each look and action
contradicted the words, and her evident joy
in his society, with the caresses that evinced
it, more than repaid him for the sorrows of
the separation. Moreover, as Jack had foretold,
the telegram came from Gibraltar. Telegrams
must be matter-of-fact things at best.
Even if you cast considerations of economy to
the winds, and launch out like the special
correspondent of a crack journal, it is impossible
to flash our finer feelings along the
wires, submitting them to the scrutiny of
telegraph officials and local postmasters. Yet
Grace, with a woman's wit, and a loving
girl's affectionate sympathy, had contrived so
to word her despatch that her lover might
read between the lines. They had been sadly
disappointed, she said, but she was wonderfully
well ; and altogether he had every reason
to be satisfied. There was no hope expressed
of his joining them speedily; but
that, as he felt, must have been out of the
question. It was impossible that Grace, either

directly or indirectly, should say anything
to induce him to leave his mother's sick-bed.
Next, in due course, came letters from Port
Said, both from Moray and his daughter.
The cordiality of the former, the more than
cousinly warmth of the latter, left nothing
indeed to desire. Moray spoke of his nephew,
and his regard for him, in terms more flattering
than he had ever used before. He could
write in the circumstances as he never could
have spoken. Not having his nephew's assistance
on landing in Sumatra, he felt to be a
grievous personal loss ; but should Leslie see
his way to carrying out their plans, his
presence would be doubly welcome. As for
Grace, though naturally she hinted nothing
directly of the engagement which did not
exist, she wrote almost in the character of
a betrothed bride longing to comfort a bereaved
lover. And her gentle sympathy was
almost more grateful than the assurances she
insinuated of eternal fidelity. As Ralph read
the note again and again, he was raised into
a seventh heaven of delight : and he remembered
the words of the sage Mr Enables,
who had predicted precisely what had occurred.

To be sure, on second thoughts he
accused himself of heartlessness : did not his
mother continue in a critical state ? But
after all, Mrs Leslie was steadily, if slowly,
getting on : so long as he was with her, progress
seemed probable ; and he was determined
of course that, cost what it might,
he should stay by her till he had seen her
health re-established.

So he set himself down and wrote a letter
to Sir Stamford Scraper, with something of
the guile of the serpent, as well as the gentleness
of the dove. He explained that for the
present he was not his own master, although
his mother had been pronounced out of danger,
and was doing better than he could have
hoped. He spoke of the enthusiasm with
which he had entered the Company's service,
and added that it would be with deep regret
he should resign himself to renounce his prospects.
He quoted a passage or two from his
uncle's letter, to indicate the Resident's feelings
in the matter. He thanked Sir Stamford
gratefully for his kind expressions when they
had met and parted the other day ; but added
that he could not think of holding him to

offers made under the pressure of kindly
excitement.

The answer came in course of post, worded
very much as our friend had expected. Each
sentence was characteristic of the writer, as
Leslie or any one else might have read him :—

"Sumatra Colonisation Company,
303 Leadenhall Street.

"Dear Sir, — I duly received yours of the
17th current. You will permit me to remark,
that had we been better acquainted, you would
probably have felt it unnecessary to make a
proposition, which — as I am bound to say, and
I trust you will forgive me for saying it —
reflects in no inconsiderable degree on my
character as a man of business and a gentleman.
I never use words in matters of
business without weighing them carefully ;
and as it has been my boast that my word
is as good as my bond, I have never been
known to go back from a promise. Having
premised so much, in the way of essential self-vindication,
I may add that otherwise your
feelings do you the greatest credit, and confirm
the high opinion I had formed of you,

being, as I flatter myself, no indifferent judge
of human nature. I said that we were desirous
of securing your services, and I am glad
to take this opportunity of repeating the statement.
If you communicate with our secretary,
and inform him of the address of your bankers,
your pay will be placed duly to your credit in
the meantime. The appointments begin from
the day of your disembarking in the colony.
I learn with extreme gratification that your
anxieties have been relieved with regard to
your mother's illness, — and I have the honour,
dear sir, to remain," &c., &c.

Pompous like himself as was the chairman's
communication, the recipient was greatly
pleased with it. His plans must depend on
Mrs Leslie's health, but otherwise he was left
master of his movements. Nor was the passage
as to the pay the least agreeable part.
The pay was not great, nor was Leslie a
covetous man. But, as we know, he was
sinking the bulk of his modest rental in a
reserve fund against probable calls by the
liquidators of the bank ; and his ailing mother,
who felt as strongly as himself on the subject.

had been stinting her expenditure and retrenching
on her jointure. He felt he could
use this new source of income with a clear
conscience — it might have puzzled him to say
how he drew the distinction, but so it was —
as he had not hesitated to spend his occasional
literary gains. And now the thought of his
unfinished poem occurred to him. He had
leisure on his hands ; he needed interest and
occupation. He threw himself into the interrupted
work with renewed energy, rising to' it
like a giant refreshed after his long literary
repose. He was delighted to find that inspiration
had not failed him ; if it was less feverishly
ardent, perhaps it was all the more
healthy. Fresh from a long walk or ride, he
would correct and revise the manuscript that
had been flung aside from his feverish fingers
in these vigils in Jermyn Street ; and as he
took up the threads he had dropped, and ashe
retwisted them, to his infinite satisfaction
he admired his own work. In a rush of mingled
and melancholy associations, he seemed
to recognise the vivid truthfulness of scenes
and situations, and, above all, of the portraiture
of himself and of her who had been

VOL. III. B

at once the pole-star of his affections and his
muse. He toned down the egotism, he touched
up the traits of the muse, he chastened some
of the more audaciously high-flown metaphors,
and generally acted the unsparing critic. But
the music of his verses went ringing through
his soul, and the chords began to vibrate as
before, though more calmly and none the less
sweetly. He changed the manner of his
treatment, though not the themes ; and again,
with the fancies fast gathering between times
in his brain, his fingers flew over the paper.
Working early, before his mother was visible
and late, after she and the household had
retired to rest — he covered the ground at a
pace which almost startled himself, and the
work was rapidly drawing to a conclusion.
Considering that the success of his smaller
pieces had paved the way, he began to dream
of fame and of growing popularity, and of
driving more profitable bargains with the
booksellers. Indeed one of these gentlemen,
and not the least eminent in " the Enchanting
to hear confidentially and " accidentally,"
through Jack Enables, that the
clever author of ' The Idyls of the North ' had

a new work on the stocks, had already sent
him a diplomatic note on the subject, marked
private and confidential." And he hoped
fondly that, in the course of a very few
weeks, he might make his final arrangements
in the matter, on his way through London to
Sumatra. Should his 'Eosabelle' have the
success he hoped, it would be doubly sweet
to hear of it where his cousin, his bride, could
wreathe the laurels for his brow ; while, ©n
the other hand, should it turn out that he
had deceived himself, Grace might be trusted
to console him for the disappointment. For
now — without a single spoken word — he
absolutely confided in her affection.

CHAPTER XXXI.

A LION IN LONDON.

Leslie went to London a month or two later,
although not with the intention of starting
immediately for Sumatra. His mother was
still so delicate, that he did not dare to exile
himself to the antipodes. With her son within
reach, she was likely to mend and do well;
but the shock of an indefinite separation might
slowly though surely prove fatal. Not for the
sake of Grace herself could he have left England
under the circumstances. Meanwhile,
and tolerably hopeful and contented, he had
enough to occupy his mind. A second heavy
call had been made by the bank liquidators,
and under the fullest powers of attorney from
his uncle, he had been realising assets to meet
the payments. That was disagreeable, though
not unexpected ; and assuredly the business

was eminently prosaic. But on the other
hand, his poem was to appear, and his publishers
were even more sanguine of success
than the author. It had been submitted, en
petit comte, to connoisseurs of name and
critics of culture. The general verdict had
been extraordinarily favourable, and even the
objections were rather complimentary than
disparaging. It was said that it shared the
foolhardiness as well as the inspiration of
genius : in the pride and intoxication of unusual
power, the poet had ventured on liberties
with the public, which the public might either
resent or approve. All the same, anticipations
in literary circles were excited, and expectations
began to stand on tiptoe. The publishers
had offered liberal terms, though
contingent, in some degree, on the success
of the sale. Big men as they were, it was
important to them that the book should succeed,
and they had done their best to take
their measures accordingly. It was to be
brought out on the eve of the session, when
the town was beginning to fill. And big menas
they were, they did not altogether disdain
the arts which the illustrious Mr Puff had

reduced to a science in ' The Critic' Editors
and their literary contributors, half-confidentially
admitted to pleasant little symposia, at
which some pages from the poem gave a
flavour to the claret, proud of being introduced
to that cercle intime, printed paragraphs that
were provocative when not positively flattering.
In fact, it seemed . certain that the
production of ' Eosabelle ' would be a literary
event, and it was only natural that the usually
steady-going author should be as excited on
the subject as many other people.

Then, setting empty vaingloriousness aside,
a triumph seemed of no little consequence
to him. Like Sir Walter Scott and other
literary men of smaller stature, he had always
set a low value on literary fame as compared
to more practical successes. He had had the
blessed good fortune to win his cousin's love —
at least he hoped so ; but if she cast in her lot
with his, she sacrificed the brilliant worldly
fortune which Jack Enables could certainly
have offered her. He could never hope to
make money like Mr Jack ; but at all events,
he might offer her something in compensation.
Fame and even flattery would be grateful to

him, could lie lay them as tributes at her feet.
Moreover, high poetical fame in those days
transformed itself into solid pudding. It was
not as in the times when the Troubadours
were merely a better sort of mendicants ; when
the Border minstrels and the Highland harpers
where satisfied with a shake-down and "the
run of the table." If he could cash a handsome
cheque from his publishers before steaming
to the south, and carry the assurance of
some permanent income from his copyright,
his arrival would be all the more welcome to
Moray, and possibly none the less welcome to
Grace ; though he acquitted the goddess of his
dreams of any possible mercenary motives.

So the imaginative and poetical side of his
temperament was in the ascendant as the day
approached when the poem was to appear.
Lockhart tells us that Sir Walter, in similar
circumstances, showed " a manly indifference
to the fate of his literary bantlings," as when
he went cruising with the Commissioners of
Northern Lights among the Hebrides, when
Waverley ' was about to issue from the 
Press. Leslie neither felt nor showed
so much manly indifference ; but he compromised.

He took the Lake district on his way
from the Lothians to London ; and though it
was in the very depth of an inclement winter,
he went for some days beyond reach of letters,
and refused to look at the metropolitan papers.
It was an odd feeling that possessed him when,
subsequently travelling south, he declined to
deal with the newsboys at Lancaster or Rugby.
He felt himself a fool ; he called himself a coward
: all the same he would defer the eventful
moment. Yet his resolution was shaken,
and his mind in great measure set at ease,
when he saw a poster of the ' Saturday Review
' on Messrs Smith's bookstall at Rugby.
The place of honour in the literary criticisms
was given to ' Eosabelle, a Poem,' and the
fact told much in his favour in every way.
The Saturday Reviewers would surely never
have rushed into the field, simply to anticipate
the hangman's office, with a book that only
deserved burning. And if by any chance
they had gone out of the way to pillory him,
they had given him an eminently complimentary
advertisement in any case.

Unwontedly excited, rather thirsty than
hungry, though the mercury stood at 28°

Fahr., the ordinarily calm Leslie drove to
Jack Enables's rooms. Jack had earnestly
pressed a bed upon him ; and Ralph, true to
his system of self-sacrificing economy, had accepted
the offer, though rather against his will.
He loved independence before all things ; but
then Jack was always a great deal out of doors.
And he was glad he had given his consent,
when he saw his host's unmistakable pleasure.
The snug diningroom, with its table spread fora
tete-astute meal, was set out as for a little fete.

"My dear fellow," exclaimed Leslie, 'you
don't mean that you have kept yourself at
home for my sake ? you don't mean that you
have put off your dinner till 9.30 ? "

Hang it all, my dear Homer, let us have
no mock modesty. It is not once in the lifetime
of many men that it is given to a humble
individual to welcome so distinguished a guest,
my dear Dante, my dear Petrarch. I am not
over-strong in poetry — I only re-echo what I
hear on all sides, so you must forgive my confounding
my complimentary epithets. You
come with your blushing honours thick upon
you ; and upon my own honour, I believe
that they are still impalpable to the wearer.

Can I conceive by any imaginary chance that
you have looked at no papers on your way up
from Cumberland ? "

That is exactly what I have not done ; and
now, for heaven's sake, drop hyperbole and be
serious. To tell the truth, I am anxious about
the book, and I am sure you don't want to
trifle with me."

Not for worlds, old fellow," said Jack, becoming
serious at once. " Though I could
hardly conceive," he added, with a smile,
your changing parts with me, and doing
precisely what I might have done in such circumstances.
Well, in a single word, you may
have gone into the Lake country obscure, but
you have come out to find yourself famous.
Wordsworth had not a chance with you. Oh,"
he went on, in answer to a deprecatory gesture
of Kalph's, " don't think I am chaffing. I don't
pretend to arrange precedence between you and
the poets' William — possibly he may survive
as a classic when you have been shelved — all
I say is, that he had to pull for a generation
or so against the tide of public favour ; while
you, like Byron, have awakened to find yourself
a celebrity. And how proud Grace will

be ! while even her father will feel he has
drawn a prize in his son-in-law. But here
comes the dinner in good time, and I for one
am hungry enough."

Which was more than Leslie was. The good
news, in the absence of all details, had pretty
nearly deprived him of appetite. He drank of
the carefully warmed claret more freely than
was his wont : had it been cognac he might
have been gulping it down without tasting
it. They had changed the subject during
dinner, but his thoughts were far away ; and
Jack, while the servant was in the room, only
talked for talking's sake. Ashen the man left
them to the decanters and the devilled biscuits.
Jack stepped to the side-table and threw a
dozen journals before Leslie. From the 'Times'
down to the — from motives of prudence we
will not say what — all had treated the poem
with marvellous promptitude. One or two
had hurriedly reviewed it the very day after
publication. It might be due in great measure
to the astute diplomacy of Messrs Jonson ;
all the same, it was a most sensational success
for an almost maiden author. Leslie was quite
quick-witted enough to see that those who

were envious of long-established reputations
had malevolently taken advantage of an opportunity
to exalt a new aspirant. They condemned
by contrast the ruggedness of one
bard, who seemed like the Carthaginian hero
to make his way through philosophical mountains
by the free use of vinegar which set palates
on edge. They pointed the moral of the
mawkish sentimentality of another, who was
descending the wrong side of the heights he
had climbed, in the character of a lean and
slippered pantaloon. Leslie's good sense felt
that they were likely to make him ridiculous ;
but all the same, that he should have been
raised to such a standard of comparison was
flattering.

So you see, my dear old fellow, you really
are a celebrity," said Jack, who had been watching
him as he ran over the pages with curious
though affectionate sympathy. " Let me make
the most of this evening, while I have you to
myself. To-morrow, when you show yourself
in Pall Mall or Paternoster Eow, you will be
caught up in a chariot of fire, which will whirl
you away to the heights of Olympus, in a Milky
Way of cards of invitation."

Confound the metaphors which you confound
yourself, Jack. Seriously, I am very
thankful for all this, though of course I know-that
all the flattery and exaggerated praise
may only end in a reaction. I did think
there was real stuff in the poem : so far I
believe the reviewers to be in the right. In
fact, everything depended on how it struck
their fancy. I was treading a bridge of Al
Surat, between praise and utter perdition.
The chances of the cards have turned up
trumps, and so far I am inexpressibly grateful.
But, between ourselves, Messrs Jonson
have been hard at work in all this ; and you,
who have had free admission behind the
scenes, must know how much humbug there
may be in a seeming triumph."

*' Very likely. But there is no such smoke
without poetic fire ; and now that the hacks
of Grub Street have been sent to the knacker's
yard generations ago, no publishers in London
have the critics at their command. Quite the
contrary : and, so far as I have heard, it is the
critics who sometimes sit upon the publishers.
Let us allow, for the sake of argument, you
are not quite the Homer or the Dante T hailed

you, nevertheless you are a poet who, under
extraordinary disadvantages, as you and I
know, has given brilliant promise of some
day arriving at immortality. Meantime, if
you only make your hay while the sun shines,
you are likely to have your bread pretty
thickly buttered : meantime, too, you may
have the run of the drawing-rooms and din-vegetables
through the season as a lion of
unrivalled pretensions and proportions : meantime,
if you were not most unhappily pre-engaged,
you might make a wife of some
well-tottered maiden in Mayfair."

Mr Yenables spoke the truth ; nor did his
sagacity and his knowledge of the world deceive
him. Within a fortnight after his arrival in
town, the young rhymer of Roodholm had
become a notoriety. The friendly head of his
publishing firm, who knew everybody worth
the knowing, gave a little dinner of eight in
his honour. Lord Tancred offered him the
choice of any number of his Mondays, at all
or any of which he hoped to have the honour
of seeing our northern friend at his breakfasts.
He had applications from photographers to
photograph him, and when these were civilly

declined, a negative of a very unflattering 
of his was produced somehow, freely
reproduced, and industriously paraded in the
shop-windows. Nor was that all. Having
been persuaded to go to a dinner given in
honour of the literary guild at the Mansion
House, there he met Sir Stamford Scraper.
It was nothing that Sir Stamford was demonstratively
cordial — that might have been expected
; but Sir Stamford begged the secretary
to the Eesident of Sarambang to name a day
for dining with him, when " he would endeavour
to get some people of distinction to meet
him." Naturally Sir Stamford did not speak
of agreeable people, but " people of distinction."
That seemed a strange anomaly ; it
was something like the sun-god stooping from
his sphere that the chairman of a great commercial
corporation should actually arrange a
dinner of "people of distinction," to meet the
private secretary of one of the Company's
employed. It was a phenomenon and an
ominous sign of the times, when literature
was coming to the front through the crowds
of the worshippers of mammon ; and so Sir
Stamford seemed to feel it. He overflowed

with courtesy to his celebrated guest, and yet
he was in a painfully false position. Presenting
Leslie to Lord This or to Sir Croesus That,
he dropped altogether the origin of their acquaintance.
It was not the secretary of the
Company in partibus that he was entertaining,
but the illustrious young poet, " of whom,
of course, you have heard," the owner of a
good property in the Lothians. But when
his guests took leave, after rather a pleasant
evening. Sir Stamford laid a finger on Leslie's
arm —

Come down into my snuggery for half an
hour, Mr Leslie. I should be very glad to
improve our acquaintance, and have a chat
over a cigar before we turn in."

Leslie had become half an oriental by virtue
of his engagement to the Company. And he
might have answered, " To hear is to obey,"
in the language of the 'Arabian Nights.' He
followed his '' master " into the smoking-room,
feeling himself in an oddly inconsistent position.
His magnificent host had been almost
toadying him, and yet the man had been his
benefactor, and was still his patron.

Sir Stamford felt precisely similarly, though

he approached the position from an opposite
point of view. In a general way, he did not
think much of poets : they seemed poor creatures,
who had better be locked up at Coney
Hatch, or in private lunatic asylums, if their
families had the means of providing for them
there. But this particular poet belonged to
a peculiar species, and, in fact, appeared to bea
phoenix. He was courted by peers and
wealthy men ; he was honoured at the 
table. Strange to say, he had a
business-like head upon his shoulders, and was
as much at home in figures as in hexameter.
And holding him to the engagement he must
be thinking of throwing up would be an advantage
to the Sumatra Colonisation Company,
and a credit to Sir Stamford Scraper, They
did hold him, to be sure, by his attachment
to Miss Moray ; but that was a thread which
might snap at any instant, when a score of
other girls were sure to be dragging at it.
Well, if the "secretary once deliberately decided
on it, he would break away in any case ;
if not, it might be well to strengthen the
ground - tackle. For even if Mr Leslie still
contemplated a voyage to the East, he might

VOL. III. c

prefer to go in the capacity of the travelling
gentleman. So Sir Stamford took the bull by
the horns, and went bluntly to the point.

I never suspected, as you may suppose,"
he said, awkwardly enough, " that Mr Moray,
in appointing a secretary, was engaging a
budding Milton. I scarcely like to suggest
that you should stick to your engagement,
and yet I should be extremely sorry were
you to give it up. We need men of your
talent in the East there ; and I need not say
it shall not be a trifle in the way of pecuniary
arrangements that will stand against our
continuing to count on your assistance."

Another man, puffed up with a new-born
sense of importance, and foreseeing unexpected
probabilities of filling his purse, might have
resented the tone, — and Leslie was especially
sensitive to any want of refinement. But he
remembered that the pompous chairman had
stood his friend, when the kindness that was
offered had seemed all in all to him. Even
now it might be much to him rejoining his
love in a capacity that made him one of the
family. The good wine might have had something
to do with it ; but he resolved to take

Sir Stamford into his confidence — and it was
possibly the wisest thing he could have done.

Perhaps you know enough of me already,
Sir Stamford, to believe I shall do the best I
can for you in every case. But for personal
reasons, which you may possibly suspect, I am
anxious to remain on the strength of your
establishment. I trust that the state of my
mother's health will admit of my starting for
Sarambang very shortly. And if you will
continue to allow me some licence about leaving,
I shall beg you to say nothing as to an
increase of pay. I owe you a personal debt
of gratitude."

Say no more, my dear sir ; say no more ! "
exclaimed Sir Stamford, in great jubilation.
You are one of the men whom no success
can spoil ; and you are such a treasure as the
Company is too happy to possess. We are
friends, I hope, from this night forward : it is
I, the chairman, who tell you so ; and neither
you nor your uncle, nor yet that very pretty
cousin of yours, shall have cause to regret
your candour, if I can help it."

CHAPTEK XXXII.

JACK HAS AN INSPIRATION.

We should be doing Mr Yenables injustice if
we let it be supposed that he was in any way
jealous of his friend's new-born fame. It was
very much the reverse. Jack seemed to take
Ralph's success as his own, and was never
weary of sounding his praises. He began to
correspond regularly with his cousin Grace,
telling her much that Ralph's modesty suppressed
; and he enclosed many laudatory
articles from the newspapers, which the maiden
might twist if she pleased into chaplets for her
lover's brow. He insinuated delicately how,
reading between the lines, Grace might see that
Kalph was making her " famous by his pen."
*' And when he joins you in that savage principality
of yours," Jack went on, " he is just the
fellow, like the poetical marquis, to make you

glorious with his sword.' Though I trust devoutly
he may never have the chance : were it
otherwise, I should volunteer for his travelling
companion." Little did he think when he
penned these light words, that circumstances
would soon give them sinister meaning.

He wrote Moray too, and his letters to the
man of action were the complement of those
he dashed off to the young lady. Short, serious,
and well considered, he dwelt upon the
poet's phenomenal success, so far as both fame
and lucre were concerned. " The better I know
him, the more I love him : he is one of those
fellows that no flattery can spoil, and of flattery
he is likely to have more than enough.
To me, who know his business qualities so well,
it appears strange that any man can be so
doubly gifted — so marvellously double-sided,
if I may use the expression. Everybody in
turn is eager to make a lion of him ; but I
need hardly say his heart is not in the Highlands,
but in Sumatra. When he comes out
to you, you will find him more modest than
before — ready, as he is able, to help you in
everything. Even that pompous old fool Sir
Stamford admits that his going out as a subordinate

is sending a razor-blade to do the work
of a jungle-axe ; but we know that the appointment
is nominal and provisional ; and as for
Ralph, I need hardly say he would not exchange
it to be Governor-general of India or
the Grand Lama. In all sincerity, my dear
uncle, had she sought the world over, my
cousin could hardly have chosen more happily.
She will marry a man among men, and the
best of all possible husbands. In all sincerity
I feel a double smart of sorrow and of shame,
when I remember that I once put myself forward
as his rival. But that is past and gone,
and if I am not best man at the wedding;, it
will only be because, as I trust, he will soon
get married in the Indies."

No : Mr Enables was far, indeed, from
being envious. It was amusing and almost
touching to see the friends together : Jack,
respecting Leslie for his practical qualities,
reverenced a genius which he felt to be removed
above his sphere, and perhaps exaggerated
the rarity of gifts to which he made
no sort of pretension ; while Ralph retained
his old honest admiration for Jack as one of
the fellows who seem born to succeed, by

energy, audacity, and fertility of resource.
Besides which, in the nobility of his own
nature, he did even excessive justice to Jack's
undoubted generosity. Here was a youth who,
though honourable and high-spirited, had never
made much pretence to very lofty principles.
Thinking less of the means than of the ends at
which he was driving, under such training as
that of the veteran Winstanley he might well
have become prematurely and most selfishly
worldly. Yet what had Jack's conduct been
towards himself? A consistent course of self-abnegation
and self-sacrifice. If Jack did owe
him a life, he had paid the debt a dozen times
over. He had not only given him Grace,
doing the utmost in his power to forward the
marriage. But what struck Ralph as almost
more remarkable, Jack had laid aside the
vanity and self - sufficiency which had once
been his most conspicuous foibles. In their
familiar relations, he had fallen so entirely
into the second place, that Leslie was often
positively embarrassed by the tacit flattery
which was so obviously sincere. While, when
they were together in public, Jack almost forgot
himself, and was always pushing his modest

friend to the front, till Leslie would feel bound
to move and speak, simply that he might
escape the well-intended pressure. In fact,
the pair were become a Places and Orestes,
though with none of the effusiveness of these
heroes of classical tragedy.

No : Mr Yenables was so far from being
envious, that he was rather revolving like a
modest satellite round the new constellation
that had arisen above the literary horizon.
Or, to change the figure, if he was not resting
on his oars — for inaction was abhorrent to his
active nature — he had never before taken his
pulling so leisurely. And he might have taken
things as quietly for some time longer, to go
off sooner or later in one of his spurts, had it
not been for somebody who was beginning to
work upon him, though as yet he was unconscious
of the influence.

Julia Winstanley was a handsome girl, and
Jack and she, as I have said, had always lived
in the utmost good-fellowship. But Jack, withall
his energy, was one of the men who feel
bound to give vent to the affections in some
shape. He indulged in flirtations when pretty
girls crossed his path, just as he was civil to

City men on principle. But he craved for
something better and more comforting; and
when he longed for consolation after losing
Grace, he began to feel the necessity of filling
the void. It had never occurred to him to
make love to Julia Winstanley, although undoubtedly
there were great temptations, and
worldly wisdom might have whispered that it
was advisable. But somehow he sought her
society more, and the opportunities presented
themselves each hour of the day ; while Miss
Winstanley, who was Jack's junior by only
eighteen months, felt herself to be filling the
place of a mother to him. She had been much
pleased by his conduct at Glenconan, where he
had anticipated her wishes by offering himself
to Grace, and by placing his means and his
prospects at the disposition of Grace's father.
She had been no less pleased by the resignation
with which he had let Grace go ; and by
the manly firmness he had displayed in his
character of rejected admirer. And she had
appreciated, if she could not altogether understand,
the generosity with which he had been
singing the praises of Leslie.

All the same, she came to the conclusion

that that sort of thing had been carried quite
far enough. Leslie was the special property
of her friend Grace, and heaven knew that
she did not grudge the poet to the exile. But
then Jack Enables was likewise a friend, — the
protege in some sense of herself as well as her
father : and it seemed to her high time that
Jack should assert himself by another of those
coups which had gone so far to advance him.

Considering the direction whither their
friendship was apparently tending, it was one
of the ordinary pieces of luck of this favourite
of fortune that he should have snatched the
game out of Miss Winstanley's hands. It is
true that it was she who gave the hint on
which he chivalrously acted, and that she
consequently came to regard his exploit as
that of a champion vowed to her service.

The hint came casually of a conversation at
a little dinner at Lord Wrekin's. The Lord
President of the Council entertained one or
two of his illustrious colleagues, with his
brother, his sister-in-law, and their daughter.
The private secretary was there, almost as a
matter of course. Eight people were seated at
a round table, so equally of course the conversation

had become general. The Ministry of
the day was, at the moment, by no means in
exuberant spirits. By-elections had been going
against them : and opposition and independent
journals alike had been arguing, with great
plausibility, that the drift of public opinion
was setting steadily against the Government
policy. In ordinary circumstances Lord Wrekin
would have cared little. He was a Whig
of the ancient Whigs ; the Cabinet was far too
Radical to please him, and he would really
rather have voted any day with Lord Salisbury
than with Lord Granville. But he clung
to his office, for he loved its dignity ; the drift
of the elections disgusted him — and he had
spoken his mind pretty strongly.

All very true," remarked the War Minister.
But as you know, we cannot help ourselves
in the meantime. The time for a stand may
come, meanwhile we can only temporise. But
I agree that this run of ill luck in the constituencies
is singularly unfortunate. There is
Ballyslattery too, — that must go to the Home-rulers
of course : not that it greatly signifies,
since no one looks for anything else. By the
by, I ought, perhaps, to beg your pardon for

touching on the subject, since your family had
so much to say to it before the Ballot Bill."

Indeed it was a sore subject with Lord
Wrekin. Ballyslattery was a small seaport
in Wexford county, which used to thrive tant
hen que mal by its smuggling rather than its
deep-sea fishing. The Winstanleys had considerable
property in the neighbourhood ; and
they divided the leaseholds and the influence
in the borough with the O'Geoghans, an
ancient sept of the aboriginal Celts, who
were likewise large landowners. By an amicable
arrangement, one family and the other
had always returned alternate members for
the town. But the O'Geoghans had beggared
themselves as the Winstanleys had
grown wealthier ; and in the latter times
before the Land League agitation and the
ballot, Ballyslattery had become pretty nearly
a pocket-borough. The Winstanleys had
always had to nurse and to canvass, but
with canvassing and nursing they carried
their man. Nowadays all that had been
changed. There was a small and respectable
minority of voters who bitterly regretted
the old state of things. For nowadays, if you

wished to give a dog — or a candidate — a bad
name, you had only to send him into the
streets at election time in a collar bearing
Lord Wrekin's badge.

Ay ! there is Ballyslattery ! " ejaculated
the host, with a wry face, as if he had washed
down a bad olive with a mouthful of corked
Lafitte. "There is Ballyslattery, a borough
that, as I may say, we made. I should be in
easier circumstances to-day, Wilfred, as you
know," turning to his brother, " had not our
father spent a little fortune on the place. He
did half the harbour-works at his own expense ;
he wrung a vote out of the Melbourne Cabinet,
which built the breakwater, and made Bally-flattery
almost a harbour of refuge. And
Wilfred there, among the other irons he keeps
in the fire, has been promoting lines of packets
to the Bristol Channel."

Nor have I done very badly with them,"
remarked Wilfred, parenthetically.

That may be," rejoined his brother, peevishly.
" Trust you for always knowing on
which side to butter your bread. Anyhow, we
Winstanleys have made Ballyslattery, and
from being a fickle of weather-beaten hovels,

it has become a respectable and civilised town.
What is our reward ? We got it a municipal
charter, by the way, and the watchword of the
corporation is ' war to the knife ' with the
family of Winstanley. The present mayor is
the very Phelim Callaghan, whom we had
prosecuted, fined, and imprisoned for smuggling."


"No bad reason for his being in bitter
opposition," thought Jack, though the Minister
at War was civilly sympathetic.

"The long and the short of it is, that for
the forthcoming election there are no fewer
than four candidates, and each and every one
of the four abuses me more savagely than the
others."

Who may they be, and what are their
politics ? " inquired the mild-spoken Minister
of Public Education, who had been modestly
waiting to put in a word.

"Who are they, and what are their politics?
Why, first, to give place to rank and descent,
there is Cornelius O'Greoghan, a cadet of that
fraternity of mendicants who fights for his
own hand and for some State provision ; who
has not the faintest chance of coming in ; but

who will, nevertheless, have considerable support
from out-voters in the suburban baronies.
Then there is Bodkin, the editor and proprietor
of the ' Ballyslattery Watchfire,' who
preaches sedition, who believes in nothing, but
who may have more or less backing from the
subscribers to his journal. There is Blake,
who believes in everything ; who had a visitation
from the Virgin only last year ; who
would revive the Inquisition, should he ever
have the chance ; and who is the pet of the
bishop and the superior clergy. But the man
who will indubitably win, is an assistant-secretary
and book-keeper from the late Land
League offices in Dublin. Timothy Began is
his confounded name : he is the son and the
pupil of a hedge-schoolmaster ; he was locked
up for half a year in a lunatic ward in Swift's
hospital ; he came out to stump the county of
Wexford, and to agitate behind the bars in
the Dublin public-houses. He is a protege of
Parnell's ; he is the darling of his fellow-countrymen
; and he will infallibly be sent upto
Westminster as a senator, to shelter behind
the privileges of Parliament, and be treated asa
gentleman by the Speaker."

The War Minister having said something
commonplace and calming, discreetly let the
subject drop. Lord Wrekin, remembering
that he had uncourteous excited himself,
was only too glad to let it go. After all, the
loss of their seat of Ballyslattery was one of
those irremediable evils that must be acquiesced
in.

But his niece had been knitting her brows,
and had gone into the drawing-room, pensive
and abstracted. It was but natural that Mr
Yenables should be attracted to her side, seeing
that they were the only two young people
in the party.

What do you think of it ? " she asked,
abruptly.

Think of what ? "

Why, of this Ballyslattery election."

"AVhat should I think of it, unless that if
any Saxon wished to test the thickness of his
skull, he had better be present there at the
nomination or on annunciation day 1 "

Oh," was all Miss Winstanley's answer ;
and she took to turning over a volume of
etchings on which she proceeded to comment ;
nor did she deign one other word on the election,

neither to the surprise nor the perplexity
of Mr Enables.

Next morning he presented himself to his
patron and official chief before the breakfast
things had been cleared away.

Are there any fresh news about the Irish
election ? " was his first question.

Nothing of consequence. How should
there be ? Only, another candidate has come
forward, professing dynamite doctrines, which
will probably bring him within the clutch of
the police. I have a telegram from my
agent."

"Ah well, my lord, I come to propose a
sixth candidate, — to ask a letter to your agent,
which may be an answer to his telegram, and
to beg a short leave of absence."

No, no, my dear Mr Enables," answered
his lordship, after some moments of reflection
" no, no ; it will never do. You would only
make a fool of yourself, and get your head
broken several times over."

With all deference to your local knowledge,
and to your greater experience, I am by
no means so sure of that, my lord. After
what you told us last night, the conflicting

VOL. III. D

interests seem to be so many and so various,
that any one really Conservative, though he
might call himself Whig, should have a fair
chance of slipping in."

Jack paused for a moment over this ambiguous
profession of political faith ; but Lord
Wrekin merely smiled. Member of her Majesty's
Government as he was, his own opinions
were not far removed from those of the
Carlton, and he felt with Jack that the days
were drawing nigh when genuine Conservatism
arrayed against Radicalism and Socialism
might meet at a great battle of Armageddon.

Jack marked the smile and went on.

"As you said last night, the candidate of
the Satellites appears to be the only one who
is really dangerous. May I ask, by the way,
for it is of vital importance, whether your
agent has both brains and courage ; whether
he is a man with pluck as well as sagacity ? "

Fitzgerald has both. I can answer for him."

'' Very well ; then all should be comparatively
smooth sailing. We contrive to keep
the rival candidates in the field, or most of
them, which is de bonne guerre , and strictly
honourable as political strategy, and we fight

this seat of Ballyslattery by bringing each independent
voter to the poll who dreads the
prospect of proscription and a war of races,
and objects to sending up a delegate of the
dregs of the populace."

Whether you win or lose, you will assuredly
have your head broken, my good boy."

Forgive me if I remind you that that is
my affair. I hope my head may be patched
up before the expiration of my leave of absence.
Seriously, Lord Wrekin, I believe I
can snatch the seat, and it is worth risking
something in so good a cause."

Lord Wrekin was not prepared to dispute
that proposition. After all, Jack, though a
useful secretary, was his secretary and not his
son. And had he been his son and heir, ashe
told himself very nobly, he would never
have scrupled to venture him on such a 
— especially had he gone fighting the
battle of the Winstanleys. If he did not give
give him his blessing, he yielded assent; he
gave him good wishes and letters of introduction
; and he insisted, moreover, as matter of
business between man and man, on opening
Jack a credit with the family bankers.

CHAPTEK XXXIII.

THE BATTLE OF BALLYSLATTERY.

I SHALL be brief with the Ballyslattery election,
for it is but an episode, as I am aware ;
but then it is an episode with a bearing on
the story. For Jack fought the battle less
from ambition or as a political gladiator, than
as the champion of a fair lady. And whether
he should decide to profit by his devotion or
not, his chivalrous adventure gained him both
gratitude and admiration.

It only wanted five days of the nomination,
and the citizens of the flourishing Wexford seaport
were already in extremely warm water, fast
poppling up to the boiling-point. The police
had been strengthened by drafts from the surrounding
districts ; and two additional companies
of the second battalion of the Midlothian
Regiment had taken up their quarters

in the rambling barracks. Notwithstanding
which, the playful spirit of the local politicians
was breaking bounds night after night.
It was breaking windows as well, as the
electors suspected of constitutional leanings
found to their cost ; and heaven only knew
what might happen. '' Glory be to God ! "
ejaculated the corporation of the glaziers
piously, rubbing their hands over incalculable
reparations of damages, as the " boys "
grew more boisterous. At dozens of public
meetings, held day after day, agitators ranted
and raved on the platforms. Morning, noon,
and night, the drink was flowing at the pub-lighthouses,
as if a corps of Bacchus, come
straight down from Olympus, were bestriding
the casks and turning on the taps ad libitum.
One fine spring evening, when the excitement
was nearly at its height, a traveller,
as the older novelists say, might have been
seen stepping out of the train at the Bally-flattery
platform. Little did the car-driver
who carried off the stranger, with hand-bag,
hat-box, and portmanteau, after a free fight
with his comrades, suspect the personality or
the purposes of his fare. Otherwise our friend

Jack Enables would have been undoubtedly
"spilt" or "kilt," and very possibly both,
in place of being safely delivered at his
destination, which was the comfortable mansion
of Mr Fitzgerald, Lord Wrekin's confidential
agent. But though his advent was
unannounced to the town, sundry telegrams
in cipher had preceded him. Mr Fitzgerald,
who was a man of convictions as well as
courage, gave his guest the most cordial reception
; but as time was precious, while conducting
him to the supper-table, he was already
explaining what had been done.

The presses of * The Mercury,' — that's our
moderate Ministerial paper — have been at
work, and the address you forwarded by
message " — a special messenger had been
sent on with letters, twelve hours in advance
of the traveller — "is all ready to be quietly
posted up, as soon as the good people are
gone to bed. You seem to have used the
cayenne-pepper-castor pretty freely, by the
way, Mr Enables."

"Too freely, I fear, for your comfort, Mr
Fitzgerald."

"Well, so far as that goes, my foot is set

down. The dice were cast when his lordship
decided to send us a candidate, and I made
up my mind to stand the hazard of the die.
After all, I don't know that it greatly signifies.
I was hardly on a bed of roses before ;
and if I do multiply my enemies, it scarcely
matters. We Irish agents are used to being
shot at, as the eels are used to skinning.
But with you, who are less in the habit of
these political amenities, it is a different
matter."

It is a different matter indeed," exclaimed
Jack, suspending his attack on a cold sirloin.
'' It is a different matter, for you will be
left to bear the brunt of the animosities I
provoke for a day or two, under the protection
of soldiers and police. On my word,
I feel like a cur that cuts in to snatch a
bone, and whether he mouths it or misses it,
makes a bolt with his tail between his leges. "

Faith, sir, a missile, or a charge of slugs,
may reach you before you can get clear away.
But as for my danger, don't speak of it again.
What is your pleasure is my duty. And
not to be inhospitable, when you are done
with your supper, we must decide on the

measures with wMcli we shall open the
campaign."

Next morning the electors of Ballyslattery
were rubbing their eyes, and trying to clear
away the cobwebs from whisky-sodden brains.
Could it be a mirage reflected from the spirits
swallowed the night before ; or was it possible
that a Conservative or " a bloody and
brutal Whig" — practically the same thing —
was come to contest the borough of Bally-flattery
? There were blue and yellow posters
flaunting from each wall and each street-corner
; and some dirty Saxon, who dared
to declare himself against Home Rule, was
tampering with the freedom of Irish election.

Sure and it's he who would have the
bad chance, if the boys were to come across
him," was the philosophical sentiment of a
venerable patriarch who had cheered O'connell
and conspired with Smith O'Brien, though
years had cooled his blood, spite of perpetual
infusions of poteen.

It's Fitzgerald that the boys would be

dating with, to his soul," remarked the

more practically minded Dennis O'Dempsey,
landlord of the Cat and the Bagpipes. " It's

Fitzgerald that is at the bottom of it, and by
the powers "

When Mr O'Dempsey, remembering prudence,
wound up his sentence in dumb show,
by a whistle and a movement of his forefinger.

These two significant ejaculations may give
an idea of the state of popular feeling. The
mob simply swore to murder their Saxon invader,
and to take measures to picket the
polling - stations against the votes of the
English and the " traitors." But as the
police and " the army " were likely to make
counter demonstrations, and as some of the
minority of the respectable might have resolution
enough to record their votes under
cover of the bayonets and the ballot, the
cooler heads among the seditious met to hold
council together.

We have got five men in the field among
us," said the worthy Father Dennis, who had
taken Mr Blake under his especial protection,
'ewe have got five men in the field among
us ; and, all allowances made, to say the least
of it, that is two too many."

And if your reverence is making me," retorted
Bodkin, the unbeliever, ruffling up his

plumes like a game-cock that is challenged,
you wor never more mistaken, and it is
much to say, than when you dreamed that it
was the like of me would be thinking of
withdrawing."

As for Mr Began, as the ijvotege of Mr
Parnell, he felt confident of the place he was
competing for, and had already discounted the
pay, in bright visions of the imagination.
While the remaining candidates, knowing well
in their hearts that they had no chance, determined
to put spokes in the wheels of their
enemies.

The council was composed of the ijrud'-
homines of the place : it embodied all the
virtue and the wisdom of local patriotism.
And the upshot of their proceedings was
embodied in a resolution, moved by Mr
O'Teague, a student of the Cork College, and
one of the most fervid expositors of the advanced
ideas of Young Ireland, —

As this Mr Enables has come among us —
and may the civil receive his soul ! — as if he
wor expecting' that we would be proud and
happy to return him, I am of opinion that
we should show our sensibility to his politeness

by giving him another competitor to
compare with. It's myself that will issue an
address to the free and independent electors,
and now he will have five of us to fight within
place of four."

And O'Teague stuck to his logical determination.
Strange to say, he gathered a considerable
tail of supporters, who applauded the
sagacious stroke of patriotism to the echo. If
Jack Enables had paid him — and his enemies
swore afterwards that he had done so
O'Teague could not have more effectually
played into his hands.

The nomination day was a great day in
Ballyslattery. The population had been in a
state of chronic intoxication for a week before ;
but the spirits had boiled their blood without
sapping their physical energies. The authorities
had made formidable preparations. There
was an immense force of police, mounted and
on foot. The Mid-Lothian Regiment was strategically
distributed, so as to take up commanding
positions where they were free to act ;
while sundry troops of the Lancers formed in
sections of equestrian statues in certain open
spaces. But on the other hand, the back streets

and the tortuous lanes of the town were given
over to gangs of the " boys." Bands of sturdy
rustics, drafted from the country districts for
the occasion, were marshalled under local leaders
with their " slips of blackthorns " in their
fists. The amphibious population of fishermen,
with many seafaring sympathisers, had
come ashore. Some of them were armed with
cudgels or boat-stretchers ; not a few with improvised
pikes or with cutlasses. The hobbledehoys
of the alleys mustered strong in their
wake ; while behind the hobbledehoys came
the school-urchins, with their pockets or their
waist-bands so many small arsenals of stones,
and skilled, like David, in slinging and stone-throwing.
And all these were waiting for the
proceedings to begin, that they might claim
their due shares in the ceremony.

It might have all seemed very natural to a
native-born Wexford man; but it struck a
stranger as peculiar. So, perhaps, we may as
well quote a passage or two from the Enables
correspondence ; for, according to promise.
Jack dashed off" hasty despatches each night
to his friend Ralph Leslie as well as to Miss
Winstanley.

The latter were perhaps the more confidential
as to his innermost feelings ; but as the
former were more frank as to the perils which
he faced, we shall fall back upon them in preference.


"Dear Ralph, — . . .

You have never been cast away and shipwrecked
as I have been. "Worse luck for you
and me, for in that case I might have spared
you a detailed description of the nomination
scene. You have never heard the wild winds
howling and shrieking through shrouds and
stays, while the roaring breakers were chafing
against the shore — with, by the by, the bellowing
of a deck-load of maddened cattle
thrown in by way of aggravation ! I assure
you, when I made my appearance in the streets,
before the hour of noon the day before yesterday,
I was carried back in the spirit to the
Kittiewake's Neb.' The procession of the
Ministerialist candidate was very like a tadpole
— with a head, little body, and a great
deal of tail. Fitzgerald and a few stanch gentlemen
and people of business stood by me
like men. More credit to them, for I fear they

may smart sorely for it. Most folks who had
any decent excuses sent them instead of coming.
Small blame to them. We were preceded,
not by a band, but by a strong body of
police. Mounted policemen mustered on each
side of us ; and another small cohort of blue-coated
footmen brought up the rear. Each
open space was occupied by troops, hemmed in
by mixed mobs of ruffians, with their Megsera-
like women and their squalling brats.

The yelling, hooting, cursing, the cries of
grief and hate, might have been heard to any
imaginable distance. Pius Claudius, or
Warren Hastings under the blighting invective
of Burke, could hardly have shrunk —
morally — more pitiably than I did. To be
sure there were occasional showers of stones,
coming by way of distraction from the execrations
and blasphemies. But I was braced by
the very audacity of the abuse and assaults,
and ' Richard was himself again,' when I stood
forward upon the platform. It was just as
well, for even Wirtz or Gustave Dore, in their
nightmares of inspiration, could hardly conceive
more fiendlike forms than those before
which we found ourselves. My opponents

snapped and snarled among themselves ; but
it was for me, and more especially for poor
Fitzgerald, they reserved the most venomous
atrocities and the gnashing of their
teeth.

You may fancy I might have been stunned
and muzzled. Quite the contrary. You have
no idea how easy it is being eloquent under
such circumstances. Had I routed through
the horn of a wild bull on the platform, the
sound would never have reached the second
ranks in the crowd. I merely moved my lips
and stooped towards the reporter at my elbow,
ducking occasionally to dodge a stone or a
dead cat. The reporter, sitting under an umbrella
quilted with tin plates, pretended to
lend an ear, and made fictitious play with his
pencil. He had my eloquence cut and dry in
his pocket, and had already telegraphed it.
It will appear at length in the Ministerial
journals of Dublin, and will be strained down
into paragraphs for the letters to the London
press. . I understand something of the
feelings of the first of the martyrs, and await
anxiously and in strict seclusion the declaration
of the poll."

A second extract from a letter, bearing date
two days subsequently : —

It was pretty warm with us, as you may
remember, on the nomination ; but the fires
were seven times heated for the declaration of
the poll. When you saw by telegram that I
had snatched a scratch victory by three votes,
you may have formed a conception of the
popular reception of the result. But in this
Irish atmosphere one comes to be acclimated
to blasphemies. The mixed multitude of
savages before the hustings cast all self-control
to the winds. Decently dressed men,
farmers in frieze coats, and shopkeepers in
broadcloth, like those whose rags were skewered
on to them by a single pin, seemed to be alike
possessed by legions of demons. Had it not
been for the muster of the soldiers and the
police, they would have joined their friends on
the platform with a rush, and torn me and my
handful of backers into ribbons. Still, happily
for us, they deemed discretion the better part
of valour ; and it is strange, indeed, that the
Celts, with their personal pluck, should lose
heart in a crowd like so many curs that are
collared. To be sure, after a time of howling,

they warmed up into action, and a corps of
rapscallions made an aggressive demonstration.
Police and soldiers were half paralysed ; for,
as no magistrate had cared to read the Riot
Act, they did not choose to use carbines and
revolvers. Then I remarked the beauty of
the weapons of the Lancers as comparatively
harmless arms for repressing a Hibernian riot.
The men charged in loose formation with the
lance ; their assailants took refuge under the
upturned carts and hand barrows that filled the
market-place. They were poked and thrust
at good-humouredly enough, considering the
provocation they had offered to the troopers —
many of whom had been bruised and battered
by the stones. Then — will you believe it ? —
this extraordinary people, who had been like
unchained savages only the minute before,
began to laugh and recover their good-humour,
as if they had been pleasantly tickled by the
points of the lances. I fancy it is the sort
of fun that comes home to them ; and there
is more delicacy in such repartees than in the
blows of their blackthorn cudgels. . At
all events, I come back to you the member for
Ballyslattery ; and assuredly there was no cor-vol.

III. E

eruption to unseat me, though there may have
been something approaching to intimidation
on the other side ; and as I have not the
faintest prospect of re-election, no possible
pressure from my constituents can influence
my parliamentary action. I am only sorry for
poor Fitzgerald, who has stood by me like a
brick. But what can I, or what, indeed, can
Lord Wrekin, do for him, unless his lordship
gave him his dismissal with a pension ? and
then he would never consent to expatriate
himself. Neither you nor I had any idea,
my dear Ralph, of what the men must resign
themselves to who stand in the breach between
the English garrison and the diplomatists
who beleaguer it."

Jack hurried back to town, bearing his
blushing honours, as well as sundry bruises
he had received in the flying storms of stones.
He took his departure by a late train on the
very day of the declaration of the poll. He
was loath to seem to leave Fitzgerald in the
lurch ; but that gentleman sensibly pointed
out that his going might possibly allay popular
excitement, while his remaining would
certainly excite it to madness. So our triumphant

young friend was escorted to the
train by a serried phalanx of police and a
couple of squadrons of cavalry. '* Had I been
the Pope or the Sultan, they could not have
treated me with greater distinction," he remarked,
as, following portmanteau and handbag,
he passed between the triple ranks of
the gallant Mid-Lothian men, drawn up to
right and left before the station. And even
higher honours were in store for him, as he
learned later. That night his constituents,
with the non electors, rose almost en masse
to burn their new member in effigy ; and on
the following Sunday he was solemnly cursed
with book, bell, and candle, from half the
altars in the diocese of Ballyslattery.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

STARTLING INTELLIGENCE From Sang.

The managing director or Resident of the
Sumatra Company at Sangaa had, on the whole,
a pleasant voyage to Penang. He had started
in considerable ignorance of the territory he
was sent to administer, though he knew a
good deal about the trade he was to direct.
But his Company had furnished him with
ample materials to study, and these he had
supplemented by a travelling library, which
was well selected, if small. Reading early and
late, and in his perpetual intervals of leisure,
he had primed himself as to the facts that
concerned him ; and he communicated the
information he acquired to his daughter, who
was naturally curious as to the future to which
they had hopefully committed themselves.
I have no idea of boring my readers with

the facts, the fallacies, and the statistics to
which Grace, like Desclemona, seriously inclined
her ear. Briefly, the broad district of
Sangaa had been transferred to the Company
by the Sultan of Sarambang. Sarambang is a
wild state in Sumatra, lying nearly opposite to
Perak, in the Malay Peninsula. To the north
and west is the independent State of Chin ;
to the south and the east are the lands of
sundry savage races under the shadowy suzerainty
of the kingdom of Holland. According
to a Malay proverb, which we venture to
translate freely into our vernacular, Ruling
Passim, Sultan of Sarambang, found himself
between the devil and the deep sea. The
pirate fleets of the Chinese were ravaging his
coasts, carrying women and children into captivity.
Not that there was a pin to choose
between the Chinese and the Sarambangese ;
but his people, being the weaker, were being
pushed to the wall. While, on the other hand,
being cute, he shrewdly suspected that it might
occur to the Dutch to champion his cause,
whether he would or not. In which case,
whoever might swallow the oyster, it was
pretty sure he would be left with nothing but

the shells. In those circumstances, he had
listened willingly to an English adventurer,
who had come to Sarambang ostensibly for
shooting. His district of Sangaa lay remote to
the south, and its shores were being perpetually
swept by descents of piratical Dyaks. He
must either defend it or give it up. As he
could not do the former,, he decided on the
latter, more especially as Colonel Chamberlain
made him a tempting offer. The Sultan practically
sold an indefinite different of a district
geographically defined by certain rivers, and
carrying a scattered population of over 100,000
souls. The stipulated price was a trifle of
money down, with a moderate royalty on all
the profits which the English settlers might
realise. Chamberlain's bargain was speculative
but good ; nor was the bargain by any means
bad for the Sultan. Anything he might subsequently
make of the contract was so much
clear gain ; and the politic Chamberlain had
really made him a sleeping partner, with a
heavy stake in the prosperity of the foreign
settlers. If Ruling Passim could do little to
help them, at all events he would show them
something more than a benevolent neutrality.

Colonel Chamberlain brought his concession to
London, where he finally came to terms about
it with Sir Stamford Scraper. The hopes he
flashed before the eyes of the promoter were
dazzling ; for he spoke of cornfields and the
precious metals, and unlimited crops of spices,
sugar, coffee, and cotton. What with his plausibility,
what with the specimens he showed,
what with reference to geographical authorities,
and to travellers who had written of the
Malay Peninsula, he had little difficulty in
making his bargain with Sir Stamford ; the
rather that he took the money he stipulated
for in paid-up shares, making it a sine qua
non that he was to be appointed managing
director. I may say at once that I should
hardly call Chamberlain an enthusiast; since
there could be no question as to the intrinsic
value of his concession. The doubt was,
whether the English company could exploits
it, owing to the unsettled condition of those
seas and their coasts. However, there was a
precedent in Rajah Brooke's success at Sarawak.
There was good fighting material among
the Malays within the bounds of Sang, who
would rejoice in the security from aggression

that might be given by a strong government ;
and on that Colonel Chamberlain pinned his
faith. Though more of a sportsman and speculator
than an administrator, he had discharged
his unfamiliar responsibilities fairly well. He
had founded the settlement of Sangaa on the
Sangaa river, and fortified it with stockades ;
he had imported a few skilled European artisans,
one or two capable clerks to keep his
accounts, and sundry respectable non - commissioned
officers to drill his coffee-coloured
levies. He had begun to open up and develop
his resources ; he had fought sundry piratical
fleets, and succeeded in beating them off ; he
had been habituating his Malay subjects to
the pleasures of working for regular pay ; and
he had seen a steamer — the Sir Stamford
Scraper — sent out to him, which might ply
between the settlement and Penang or other
ports. Finally, the unlucky Chamberlain had
caught a fever and died, in the nick of time
for any interest in my story, just as Glenconan
with his fortunes seemed to have been cast
hopelessly adrift.

So Glenconan and his daughter had had an
agreeable passage, and they had transhipped

themselves at Penang to the Sir Stamford
Scraper, which had come thither by appointment
to meet the Eesident.

The curtain that dropped on Grace falling
back in a faint on the deck of the Fire King in
the fogs from the Essex marshes, rises on her
as she is approaching Sangaa and the shores of
the promised land. The rise of the curtain
was the literal fact, for there is little difference
between fog and fog, whether it hangs on the
lower reaches of the Thames or over the 
of Sumatra. But what suddenness
in the difference when the southern sun
breaks out ! It is the broad blaze of the bale-fire
on some Border height, to the flickering
of a farthing candle in a cellar in the Seven
Dials. Let Miss Grace tell her own story, as
Mr Enables has done. I quote from a five-sheet
letter to Miss Winstanley.

It was with a sinking and a saddening of
the heart I came on deck a little after dawn.
Creeping, clinging vapours enveloped everything,
weighing down the black smoke from
the funnel of the steamer. It was a dimness
that might be felt and almost tasted, for it
came with the breath of mud and malaria and

decaying vegetable matters. Shall I say, that
when the steward threw a little glass of cognac
into the coffee, I swallowed it as I have smelled
a scent-bottle in a crowded church ?

Then, of a sudden, the grey vapours began
to thin, wreathing themselves round the masts
and the yards, and coming down on our heads
in a drizzle ; while away to the eastward was
a flashing of rosy lights, like the flashes of the
aurora borealis through the grimmest of wintry
skies. Almost before I could rub my eyes
over the phenomenon, the rosy reflections that
had been radiating like revolving lights had
widened into one deep, broad blaze of crimson.
The sun of the tropics had broken out in his
strength, and the mists melted away or evaporated
as by enchantment. The mouth of
the Sangaa river lay before us, with the surf
breaking over the troubled bar ; and the
smooth, heaving swell of the black channels,
lying between the surge of the snow-drifts.
To right and left were the thickets of mangroves,
casting their gloomy shadows over
sand-banks and mud-flats. But behind were
the copses of feathery palms, and the clusters
of the graceful bamboo columns, bending beneath

the burdens of their glossy coronets of
leaves. While behind all, and in the distance,
was the wooded amphitheatre of mountains,
their heads and shoulders rising in volcanic
nakedness out of the flowing draperies of the
forests that fell from their stony girdles infolds
of green. I cannot help being romantic
and poetical, my dear Julia, for never surely
did mortal maiden look on a more glorious
panorama.

But to come back to the prosaic from the
poetical, a steam - launch was puffing and
wheezing alongside, in place of one of those
most picturesque prius, which seem to embody
the very melody of motion. Perhaps
we crossed the bar all the more easily, and we
steamed up the sluggish stream very comfortably.
To adopt a simile of Sir Walter Scott's,
it was like threading an interminable aisle,
under the leafy roof of one of the grandest of
natural cathedrals. Long rows and groups of
graceful columns shot up on either bank — the
stems of trees that were absolutely branchless
to the height of 80 or 100 feet. Then indeed
in their exuberance they made up for lost
time, interlacing themselves in impenetrable

arches of foliage, the light filtering through at
intervals, as from a roof in disrepair, and falling
in light shreds and patches on the black
surface of the stream. But the silence of that
tropical forest was death-like. There might
have been beasts or birds : I saw not a single
one, except here and there a solitary stork
that went floating skywards from his fishing-ground.
There were butterflies indeed, fluttering
over the launch's deck, though bats or
moths might have seemed more appropriate to
that twilight. Now and again we met one of
the Malay boats, the rowers crooning a melancholy
song, as they bent mechanically to the
oars. And once there came a scream out of
the depths of the forest, that jarred my overstrung
nerves, so that I almost felt inclined
to re-echo it ; so you may imagine how far
gone I must have been in my romance. They
said it was some hapless fruit-eating animal
being crunched in the jaws of some beast of
prey. Anyhow, I felt as if the darkness had
entered into my soul ; as if I had been sentenced
to imprisonment in a tropical dungeon.
Nor could I help clutching my father's hand,
though even then I was ashamed of myself.

when he soothed my terrors instead of laughing
at them.

' Wait and be patient, Grace was all he
said ; and if I tried to follow the advice, I was
soon rewarded.

"You cannot imagine what a delightful
home is ours. The architecture would astonish
you in England, but it is admirably
adapted to the climate. Conjure up your
fancies of a big bungalow in the most graceful
harmonies of subdued colouring, with everything,
both within and without, that is most
coquettish. It is the glorification of the useful
and ornamental bamboo, which, as schoolbooks
would say, is pretty much to the Malay
what the camel is to the Arab, or the reindeer
to the Laplander. The walls are of double
bamboo stems, interlaced and interwoven by
bamboo cordage. The partitions and the
hangings of the rooms are of bamboo matting.
Mats of the softest bamboo fibre cover
the bamboo floors. And the open roof above
the bamboo rafters is of shingles cut from the
bamboo stems. Finally, my father smokes a
pipe of bamboo ; the water - pitcher in the

pantry, and — for aught I know — the pots and
pans in the kitchen, are made of plugged
joints of the bamboo ; and the beds and chairs
in the broad verandahs, where we sleep and
shelter through the day from the sunshine,
are of that everlasting bamboo, like all the
rest.

"As for the Malays, I like, nay, I love
them. Every man is a gentleman, as every
woman is a lady.

I forgot to mention, by the way, that
there are a few thorns among the roses.
When I light the lamps, and draw the mats
aside before the windows of a night, to lookout
on the glorious heavens, that are studded
with constellations as thickly as any duchess's
stomacher with the family diamonds at a
drawing-room, I am smothered in a plague of
most magnificent moths, that extinguish the
lights in a general inclination. I shook a
scorpion the other morning out of my slipper :
happily I was drowsy, and the slipper slipped
through my fingers, otherwise the scorpion
must certainly have stung me. He was
caught and crushed, which is more than I
can say for a huge hairy spider, standing

about half a hand high at the shoulder, and
casting a ghastly shadow of a foot or so behind
him. While I stood still and screamed,
he made off to his hole, and ever since I have
been expecting his reappearance. Then there
is a snake in the thatch just above my pillow :
I can hear him rustling there in the watches
of the night. He is supposed to be venomous
; but the servants say there is no danger,
so long as there are plenty of rats and mice.
And rats and mice run about in such abundance,
that even papa is not uneasy ; and
thinks it better the snake should not be disturbed,
on account of the sentiment or religious
principles of the natives — I am not
quite sure which. Nevertheless it is sl delightful
country ; and if you only saw the
flowers in our garden — flowers growing wild,
for there are few under the shade of the
forests — you would be content to put up
with the snakes, and even compound for the
spiders."

In fact. Miss Moray saw most things
through rose - coloured glasses in the meantime,
and so far her letters were doubly
welcome to her friends at home.

Those from Moray were likewise satisfactory
on the whole, though written rather in pen
and ink than in rose tints. He knew the
tropics so well, that they had no longer
power to interest him ; and he judged the
situation in Sumatra like a man of business.
So far as he saw, the settlement was nearly
as rich in resources as it had been represented,
but much remained to be done before the
Company could reckon upon dividends as on
the Three per cents. He did every justice to
the energy and abilities of his predecessor ;
but since the death of Colonel Chamberlain,
Sangaa had been unsettled and retrograding.
The Dutch had been making overtures to the
Sultan of Sarambang : so far as he could
learn, the Sultan stood firm ; but intrigues
had been fomented at the Court, and it was
rumoured that emissaries of the disaffected
had been already stirring up sedition in the
settlement. He apprehended no serious consequences,
as the Dutch, having no shadow of
a legal claim, were not likely openly to show
their game ; and agitators who fell into his
hands would be summarily dealt with. In
the meantime, the Company might count on

his being upon his guard, and he hoped to
send them more reassuring intelligence very
speedily.

It need hardly be said that those despatches,
worded as they were, made Leslie more eager
than ever to join his uncle. There was madness
in the thought of Grace in those Malay
jungles, exposed to the chance of intrigue and
savage warfare, and leaning in her isolation
on the single life of a man whose duties must
necessarily expose him to danger. Yet leaving
England was out of the question, so long
as his mother hung between life and death.
Mrs Leslie had been making encouraging progress,
it was true ; but any cause of anxiety
might have the most serious consequences.

That knot was cut when he least expected
it. He had left his mother fairly strong and
in unusually good spirits, for one of his flying
trips to the south. Two days afterwards a
letter reached him, to say that all was over.
The event had been so sudden, from an affection
of the heart, that on this occasion there
was no need to shock him by telegraphing,
Ralph had hurried home to superintend the
arrangements for the funeral; and morbidly

VOL. III. F

self-reproachful for his undutiful impatience
to be away, he had been smarting under a
double sense of suffering. He had seen his
mother laid in her grave ; he had sent away
his friends ; he had dined tete-astute with the
relative who had nursed Mrs Leslie through
her illness ; and then had withdrawn to the
solitude of his own room to pass a melancholy
evening. A pile of unopened papers lay upon
a table : he opened the one that first came to
hand, in sheer distraction of spirits. It chanced
to be a London evening journal, and he ran
his eye unconcernedly down the middle pages.
His eye was caught by a telegram, headed
Penang," and dated a couple of days
before. It was brief enough and bitter
enough : —

There are rumours, which, however, want
confirmation, of an attack by the independent
and piratical tribes on the settlement of the
Sumatra Company at Sangaa. It is said that
the managing director has been killed, and the
settlement carried by storm. As the Company's
steamer has been sent hither for
repairs, we may have no certain intelligence
for some weeks. Meantime, we may repeat

that the intelligence must be received with
caution."

There was nothing that Ralph had studied
more regularly of late than the time-tables of
the P. & 0. Steam Navigation Company. He
never knew when a piece of knowledge might
be of use. " Thank God ! " he ejaculated, " if
I start tomorrow morning, I can catch the
next packet for the Straits from Brindisi."

CHAPTER XXXV.

LESLIE LISTENS TO A CONFESSION.

Proverbs will prove true in more senses than
one. That of " More haste, less speed," would
come into Ralph Leslie's head when the " Flying
Scotchman" ran itself into some goods
waggons and off the rails, just before entering
Darlington Station. It had been '' slowing,"
and so no great damage was done ; but there
was delay in the delivery of the passengers
in London. So Ralph " missed connections "
with the South-Eastern train, and consequently
with the steamer he hoped to catch at Brindisi.
It was not in his nature to tear his
hair or rend his garments ; but none the less
was he miserable and bitterly disappointed.
He did the best and wisest thing in the circumstances,
and had himself driven to the
Sumatra offices in Leadenhall Street. There

he found no less a person than Sir Stamford
Scraper. For the calming of their shareholders,
the Board had sent a circular to all
the City editors, stating that they had received
no unsatisfactory news from the Settlement,
and intimating that they saw no reason to attach
the slightest importance to the alarming reports
which had been rashly set afloat. Nevertheless,
though the chairman tried to put a
pleasant face upon it, it was evident that he
was anxious, not to say alarmed. Of course
his anxiety communicated itself to Leslie, whose
poetic imagination had perhaps got the better
of his common-sense, and was conjuring up
every kind of appalling tragedy. Before the
lover and the chairman had talked together for
ten minutes, they had almost frightened each
other into temporary fits, though Leslie was
in the deepest mourning. On the principle,
possibly, of never crying over spilt milk, Sir
Stamford had uttered no syllable of condolence
as to the death of his visitor's mother; and
in the horror of the bereavements which were
still in suspense, Leslie had not resented or
even remarked the omission.

So you are going out at last, Mr Leslie,"

exclaimed Sir Stamford. " I am delighted to
hear it. Even should all be well, we are
short-handed at Sangaa ; or rather, we are
short-headed. And should anything have
happened "

There Leslie made a gesture that interrupted
him. "Well, well, we will hope the
best ; and I don't attach any importance to
the telegram. But you have missed the
Kandahar at Brindisi — there can be no question
of that."

"No question whatever; and now, how to
get on. To tell the truth, that was what
brought me here so quickly : I thought your
people might be able to inform me."

"To be sure — to be sure ; our manager is
the very man. He has all the sailing and
the steaming for the Straits at his finger-ends."


And Sir Stamford, ringing; the bell, sent
a message, begging Mr Jennings to step that
way. The accuracy of Mr Jennings's information
did not belie his character.

If you have missed the Kandahar, Mr
Leslie, it does not much matter. That is
to say, if, by way of consolation for roughish

fare and some lack of society, you can content
yourself with tolerable speed and plenty

of space You don't care about such

trifles ? Ah, very well ; then I have your
affair all ready managed for you. You
know, sir," he said, turning to the chairman,
"Brooks, Bateson, & Co. will be ready to do
anything for us, — as they well may, for weare
their best customers. Their steamer, the
Canton Castle, ought to touch at Palermo
three days hence. She has swift despatch
for Palermo, Port Said, Penang, and Singapore.
Starting this evening and travelling
straight on, Mr Leslie can easily be in Sicily
to meet her, unless there should be a hitch
in communications from Naples. But with
your permission, sir, I can easily settle with
the owners to send a message to their agents
at Palermo. There the ship will be detained
over her lading till Mr Leslie turns up."

"Do so, Mr Jennings; do so by all means
that is to say, if you are agreeable, Mr
Leslie. And remember, when you get out
to Sangaa, should anything have happened
to the Eesident, that you are to spare no
expense in forwarding news by special vessels

or otherwise ; and I may as well give you
a written authority to that effect'

If anything should have happened to the
Resident ! " thought Ralph, as he was driven
westward again to the office of the President
of the Council, where he hoped to find Jack
Enables. It was clear that those shrewd
men of business in Leadenhall Street feared
the worst, although they were " trying to hope
the best. And what a journey lay before
him, to be travelled out in the thickening
horrors of suspense ! Under any circumstances,
he could hope to hear nothing until
his steamer communicated with the shore at
Port Said.

Jack Enables, with his many irons in the
fire, had always been a doubtful bargain to
the Government : though doing his official
work by fits and starts, his spurts were often
worth the plodding routine of other men.
Now that he was to sit in the House for
Ballyslattery, he had given in his resignation
to his noble friend and patron, and was
only filling his official arm-chair until his
successor should be appointed. So it was
with even an easier conscience than usual

that he had hustled all the bundles of papers
aside, and bade the messenger deny him to
everybody whose business was not absolutely
urgent. His body was there within the precincts
of the Council office, — worse luck, —
but his thoughts were far away in the spice-groves
of the Southern Pacific.

My dear Leslie — my dear Ralph, I had
been looking for you tomorrow, but hardly
to-day."

Ralph blushed at what seemed a hinted
accusation of heartlessness, though Jack had
never meant it so. Taking a misfortune in
Sumatra, or the probability of some misfortune,
for granted, he rapidly ran over what he had
been doing, and told what he had arranged.
My traps have been all ready for long ; there
is no difficulty about them. I leave the heavy
luggage to be sent out after me ; and I start
for Naples in light travelling equipment, with
a rifle, a carbine, and a couple of revolvers besides.
Surely it was by some presentiment that
I provided myself with so formidable a battery."

But, God bless me, Ralph ! " said Jack,
smiling sadly, " you know you never could hit
a hay-stack ! "

And I hardly profess to be a crack shot
now. But all the same, I have been making
progress. I have been practising steadily with
pistols, and with the rifle at the volunteer
range near Eoodholm. And you know I am
pretty cool, and have my nerves under tolerable
command, as some of those Malays may
learn on occasion," he went on, with such a
look as Jack had never seen before on his
placid and handsome features.

Heaven help us ! after all, he is but one
of ourselves," thought Jack ; " and I, for one,
should be sorry to face him, if he were thirsting
for my blood and his were up."

The next idea that occurred to him, as it
had occurred before, was that he would cast his
constituents and his City affairs to the winds,
and be ofl" with Kalph that very evening.
There were historical precedents in favour of
such prompt action. Had not Lord Clyde
gone off" to take the command in India with
something like a half-dozen of collars and a
tooth-brush ? and he flattered himself that he
was better provided. But the calmer Ralph
had no idea of letting his friend play the fool
in performing the Places to his Orestes.

My path of duty is plain, and it leads me
straight to the Canton Castle at Palermo.
You have nothing to do on board that galere ;
and permit me to add, that should you leave
England suddenly, you would be behaving
badly to many of the people you left behind."

Possibly you are right," sighed Jack, reluctantly
giving up his wild proposal. " If
the worst comes to the worst, you can always
telegraph for me, though it takes time going
half across the globe. What fun you may
have in the way of fighting ! No, 1 don't
mean that ; but it is hard to be doomed to
sit with my hands crossed while you go to the
help of our friends, should they need help."

'•' God knows, you need not envy me the
voyage," was the reply ; " and my time of involuntary
inaction will be intolerable torment."

In answer to which, the only comfort Jack
could offer was a silent shaking of the hand.

Mr Jennings's predictions as to the society
on board the Canton Castle were fulfilled.
With the exception of a Sicilian lady, shipped
for Port Said, who was chronically seasick,
Ralph found but a single companion. As for
the skipper, he was an honest old sea-dog, who

seldom opened his mouth, except to give
orders, or to stow away a heavy ground
cargo of the rough though plentiful fare. At
any other time Ralph's fellow-traveller would
have greatly excited his curiosity. There was
a mystery about the man, as EaljDh felt from
the first ; but at that moment all the world
was indifferent to him. He scarcely saw the
precipices of the Monte Peregrine ; " The
Golden Shell" glittered unheeded before his
dreamy eyes ; and as they steamed southwards
through the glorious Straits of Messina,
the Canton Castle might have been threading
the icebergs of Smith's Sound, for anything
Ralph knew to the contrary. Then disappointment
followed disappointment. No news at
Malta, where they lay broiling and unfading
for a few hours ; not a single word from
Sumatra at Port Said ; not a word at Suez.
There was a hot blast from the deserts as they
steamed down the Eed Sea ; and perhaps it
rather did Ralph good than otherwise. It
acted on him as an anodyne, and soothed his
sharper pangs.

But it affected his fellow-traveller more
seriously. Eal23h and this Mr Smith had

been good friends enough. Many times in
the day they exchanged ordinary civilities ;
but they sat at meals in a Pythagorean silence
which was seldom interrupted. Had
Captain Benbow been of a more convivial
temperament, he must have cursed the fate
which had given him such dull companions.
Had he had the slightest sense of humour, he
must have smiled, nevertheless, at the dexterity
with which they cut down the table and cabin
talk to the lowest point compatible with bare
civility. But as Benbow was neither convivial
nor observant, he simply contented himself
with wondering how two well-grown men continued
to support nature on such inadequate
sustenance. Leslie looked as if he were going
into a consumption, with the hectic flush on
his cheeks and the wandering lights in his
eyes ; while Mr Smith appeared to have gone
into a decline many months before, and to beholding
on to his life by something like spasms
of volition.

Such being the case, it was hardly to be
wondered at that Smith should have collapsed
under the heat of the Eed Sea; and Leslie,
for one, was not at all surprised when he

''^

learned that the other passenger was laid up
in his cabin. The news did not shock him,
and rather did him good. It was not in his
nature to know that a fellow creature needed
his services, without doing his best as consoler
or sick-nurse. So, rousing himself, he shook
some of his personal troubles from his shoulders,
and after knocking repeatedly without
receiving a reply, he opened the door of Mr
Smith's cabin.

A glance was sufficient to show that he need
not stand upon ceremony. As the French put
it expressively. Smith was "beating the country,"
— that is to say, he was tossing restlessly
in bed, and throwing his arms about in the
air, while his lips were moving and murmuring
inarticulately. That the case was grave
was very certain, and the Canton Castle
carried no doctor. Leslie did not gain much
by calling the skipper into consultation. Ben-bow
prescribed a stiff brimmer of brandy-and-water
by way of specific, which did not
altogether recommend itself to Leslie's good
sense ; and the first officer mournfully shook
his head, muttering something about a sheet,
the sail-maker, and the Church-service. So

that Ralph, though he knew next to nothing
of medicine, took the case into his own hands.
He had the patient carried on to the deck
upon a mattress, and stretched on the poop
under the sail that had been rigged by way of
awning. We need not go into the details of
his unscientific treatment, but by indefatigable
nursing he pulled the patient through.

In ordinary circumstances the success that
had crowned his self - sacrifice would have
richly rewarded him for his good-nature and
Christian charity. So it did in a measure.
Yet, all-Christian as he was, he felt something
like the surgeon who has brought back to life
the body of a murderer handed over to the
school for anatomical purposes. In the ravings
of delirium, through the watches of the night,
his patient had spoken wildly and incoherently.
Ralph, who had listened involuntarily and
much against the grain, had nevertheless as
involuntarily tried to put together the pieces
of the puzzle. In that he had failed ; yet he
had come to the conclusion that the object of
his cares must be a consummate scoundrel.
And from what Ralph could gather — and it
was confirmed by Smith's appearance — he had

been guilty of no such daring atrocity as murder,
but of swindling, a breach of trust, or
forgery, or some similar scandalous felony of
the first order. The only point in his favour
was, that apparently remorse had been lying
heavily on him.

Had Jack Yenables been in Kalph Leslie's
place, he would probably have been just as
good-natured in the way of sick-nursing. But
when Jack had revived the rascal, he would
have shrunk from pressing himself as father-confessor
; he would simply have declined any
thanks, and cut further acquaintance. But
unless I have made a poor hand of my portrait
of Ralph, it will be understood that it was
altogether foreign to his character that he
should behave so. His good offices had
pledged him to this dubious protege, and conscience
told him that the cure of the soul was
of infinitely more consequence than the care
of the body. But now that the convalescent
was regaining strength, he was not to be
brought to confession save of his own free will.
Kalph was in more than two minds as to the
depth of his patient's penitence : in any case,
the chances would be in his favour if he struck

while the iron was hot and made more malleable
by recent affliction.

He made up his mind one evening during
supper, and the opportunity came that very
night. " How beautiful is night ! " sighs out
Thalaba in Southey's poem; and that night,
undoubtedly, was most beautiful, according to
an Arab's notions. The lustrous moon was
riding in a cloudless sky, amid a gorgeous illumination
of constellations. So brilliant was
the night, that Leslie fancied he could see the
flickering of the heated air between the sea
and the star shine. The surface of that starless
water was broken by phosphorescent flashes,
and the waves in the wake of the screw were
lighted up as by myriads of wax candles,
or rather by an electrical glare, for there
was something "uncanny" in the radiance.
With an easy mind, the weird beauties of the
night would have stirred Leslie's poetical soul
to its depths : as it was, his preoccupations
and his dramatic instincts interested him in a
solitary human personality. Smith had been
making steady progress ; yet now he sat huddled
up in an attitude of profound dejection.
If he saw the sea or the skies, he seemed to

VOL. III. G

take as little note of one or the other as a
new-born babe. " Now is my time," thought
Leslie, as he left the shadows of the funnel.
Sorely against his will he was going to discharge
an imperative duty : were Smith to
meet his advances with a rebuff, it could not
touch him in anything but his vanity ; yet
somehow his heart beat at double time, as if
he were bracing himself for the most momentous
of interviews. At the sound of the footsteps
in the stillness of the night, Smith started
like the skulking thief who feels a hand
suddenly on his shoulder. But when he saw
who it was, he quickly recovered himself,
though Ralph could fancy that he brushed
away a tear.

Mastering his instinctive repugnance, murmuring
to himself, " May Heaven forgive me
if I am hypocritical ! " he sat down by Smith's
side. The other shrank away, glanced hurriedly
around him, and then sidled up, though still
shrinkingly, against Ralph, as a much-badgered
cat responds to a caress. To Ralph, whose faculties
were all upon the stretch. Smith seemed
to be craving for some human fellowship, which
had long been denied him. So Ralph snatched

at the ball on the bound, and laid a gentle hand
on that of the other man.

*may God bless you, Mr Leslie!" was the
unexpected answer. '' 1 may think I owe you
little kindness for saving my life, but you
meant well ; and you have bound me to you,
body and soul."

I did what I should have done for anybody
in similar case, and, so far, you owe me nothing.
But if you really feel grateful, as you
say, Mr Smith — and I don't doubt it — shall I
tell you how you may discharge the debt ? "

'surely."

By doubling it. There is something weighing
on your mind, and you would be easier
were you to make a clean breast of it."

What I I have been talking in my delirium.
I thought as much," interrupted Smith
hastily, looking round him as if he would have
been only too glad to bolt, had he been anywhere
but on a ship in a waste of water.

You have been talking, Mr Smith, but I
have no wish to entrap you. I know nothing
more of you or of your story, except that
you have a story which you have reasons for
not telling. As for me, I need not say to a

man of your penetration that I am by no
means curious. It is less than nothing tome
personally whether you speak or not."

Smith relapsed into reflection. Kalph stirred
him up, after a minute.

I may hint, too, that since your illness and
your convalescence, you have neglected certain
precautions you took before. You strike meas
being an older man by some fifteen years ;
and the illness, though it has pulled you down,
does not account for half of them."

It struck Mr Smith's conscience, that had
Mr Leslie said he was an absconding swindler,
he could hardly have put it much more plainly.

After reflecting again, he took his resolution.

You have said that you are not curious,
and I believe it. If I do make a clean breast
of it, as you propose, may I count on your
absolute discretion ? One word from you will
suffice."

Leslie hesitated and shook his head. " I
can make no rash promise of the kind. Do
you not see, that on your own admission— and
you must forgive me the suggestion — I might
possibly be pledging myself to be the tacit
accomplice in a crime ? "

Smith rose as if he meant to cut short the
interview ; yet he did not go far away. " If
you will not pledge yourself, I cannot speak,"
he said over his shoulder, gruffly and shortly.

Then it was Ralph's turn to think. If he
did invite the man's confidence, and become
the depositary of some unwelcome secret,
society was no worse off than before, nor could
the interests of justice suffer. So long as he
knew nothing, he could do nothing to help
justice. While, on the other hand, if Smith
were persuaded to speak at all, he might be
prevailed upon to make further confession.
Besides, Ralph was urged on by a strange
presentiment, oddly inconsistent with the uninquisitive
nature of which he had boasted,
but which told him that he might hear something
to somebody's advantage. Right or
wrong, he did make up his mind.

If you will tell me anything you wish to
tell, Mr 'Smith'" — and he laid marked emphasis
on the pseudo-patronymic, — " I give
you my word that it goes no further, unless
with your full and free consent."

Smith " heaved a sigh, as if he were
throwing a weight off his breast. " God bless

you, Mr Leslie ! I believe you were sent onboard
this ship as my better angel. In saving
a life that I have often longed to be rid of,
you may have done me a better service than
I supposed ; you may have given me time for
repentance and atonement."

Whereupon he burned his boats, and cut off
all possibility of retreat.

My name is not Smith, but Mungo
Campbell."

Leslie half jumped from his seat, but incontinently
recollecting himself, sat down
again.

What ! You have heard that name before.
Ay — Leslie — Leslie — of course you area
Scotsman, though you have not a touch of
the accent I have tried indifferently to conceal.
I trust in heaven, sir, that you were not one
of the shareholders of that unhappy bank."

I held no shares myself," answered Leslie ;
then he added with deliberate honesty, " but
dear friends of mine have been ruined."

The finger of Providence ! — the finger of
Providence ! " exclaimed the other. " It has
always been tracking me and pointing at me,
and now it has brought me to my knees."

There was a light, almost like that of insanity,
in his eyes. It told a terrible tale of
internal struggles, and of prolonged mental
sufferings. Leslie felt himself torn asunder
between the promptings of indignation and
compassion. Then this Cain, who had been
driven from society with the brand of infamy
on his forehead, settled down into the calm
and methodical man of business. The habit
of business seemed to have carried him back
from the Eed Sea trip to the counting-house
in Buchanan Street, within rifle-shot of the
Broomielaw. He expounded facts and figures
clearly enough — sensational facts, and most
startling figures. By way of confirmation, he
produced from a breast-pocket a note-book
filled with precise memoranda.

"They advertised a reward of a couple of
thousand pounds for my apprehension," he
said ; " and had they offered ten, ay, or twenty
times as much, they would have had a cheap
bargain could they have caught me and compelled
me to speak. They knew I was indebted
to the bank in over a million. They
knew I was far the largest shareholder besides.
But they fancied I had been brought to grief

by mad speculation — that the assets I could
show were not worth counting upon. Well,
they were wrong. When I told my colleagues
and fellow-swindlers, who began latterly to
worry me, that I only wanted time to work
round, I was speaking the solemn truth.
Being living lies themselves, and sharp men
of business to boot, it was but natural that
they should not believe a word of it. It was
true that for the time I had neither cash nor
credit, and when the bank stopped further
supplies I was brought to a deadlock. The
smash we had been expecting had come at
last, and there was nothing left but to begone.
All my plans had been laid; all my
precautions were taken. While my thoughts
were riveted to the stone and lime of our bank
premises as fast and firm as any of our fireproof
safes, my body had gone cruising in my
steam-yacht from my summer residence on
the coast of Argyleshire. I was landed at
Belfast. I covered my trail, and took shipping
from Queenstown for America, whither
I had consigned the bulk of my treasure.
The sums I had been borrowing from the
shareholders of the bank had been duly transmitted

beyond the Atlantic. I was nearly as
cute as the world had given me credit for
being ; and my only fault, from the business
point of view, was that of being over-sanguine.
The seed I had sown was to bear fruit manyfold,
but I had counted upon reaping before
the time of the harvest. In fact, owing to
family connections, I had launched out audaciously
in American speculations — raising
money upon one to invest it in another.
Worse luck for me, I had only too good information.
I had gone shares in promising
mining claims ; I had sunk large sums in developing
them. I was an active member ina
syndicate that was financing a trans-continental
line of railway, with vast concessions
of State domains that could only be gradually
realised, and we were at close grips for the
moment with Jay Gould and Yanderbilt. I
was far in with a ' cotton corner ' at New
York. Never was there such a combination
of temporary ill-luck ; but from the moment
that Providence came down upon me and
drove me forth from my kind — from that
moment the tide began to turn."

One thing puzzles me," interposed Leslie,

who had been lending a most attentive and
business-like ear, " and that is, how the liquidators,
who have a claim on your estate, were
unable to hit upon the trace of those investments.
I know something about it, for I have
been looking into the bank's affairs," he added.
I do not know how you should come to be
so well informed about the bankruptcy affairs,
but being so, it is very natural you should ask
the question. And if, like most Scots, you
are curious in metaphysics, I can submit a remarkable
psychological phenomenon for your
study. Sanguine as I was, I knew I was
running a match against luck and time, and
I did my best to take measures accordingly.
All chances weighed, it seemed to me more
prudent to stake on the honesty of an individual
I believed I knew, rather than trust
everything to time or circumstances. The
whole of those American transactions were
undertaken in the name of a man who is my
nephew by marriage. He will die either a
millionaire or a beggar — there is no mean
for him. He is perhaps the shrewdest fellow
I ever met ; yet, strange to say, he has been
absolutely true to me. How he reconciles

things to his conscience all round, I cannot
tell ; for he is in the secret of my eclipse and
false name, and he knows well that I am
badly wanted by the liquidators. He prides
himself on being a ' smart man ' ; he could
repudiate me and appropriate my possessions
at any moment. Yet he has always accounted
to me for every dollar : he is trustee at this
moment of vast accumulations, reinvested at
handsome prospective profits ; and, in short,
has hitherto been always on the square with
me, though he may have behaved to the bank
and its creditors like a scoundrel."

Leslie sat thoughtful and speechless. With
the money that this man could repay, the load
of the bank's liabilities would be so lightened,
that Moray, were he indeed alive, might have
come home again the master of Glenconan —
that Grace might have become his own wife
tomorrow, with easy mind and a comfortable
income.

Too late ! Too late ! This infernal swindler,
and such as he, had been the death of a man
who was worth ten thousand of him, and
wrecked the future which might have been
so bright and prosperous.

Smith, or Mr Mungo Campbell, talked or
'sauntered" on. He seemed to have forgotten
the presence of his father - confessor,
and was following out the train of his thoughts.
He was unconscious that in talking to the
kind-hearted stranger who had been his sick-nurse,
he was playing within reach of the
claws of a tiger ; for Leslie, for the time had
wellnigh lost his self-control, and was struggling
with passions that almost maddened him.

How can we explain those inconsistencies
of moral character ? " proceeded Mr " Smith,"
indulging his metaphysical speculations on the
brink of the invisible abyss. " And yet it is
stranger still to think, looking back, how I
could ever have lowered myself to such depths
of rascality. Would you know what I suffered
in slipping down the hill ? God forbid that
you should ever learn it by experience. According
to the classics, the descent to Avernus
is easy ; but the Bible says that the ways of
transgressors are hard. And the Bible morality,
as usual, has the best of it. They tell you
I was the vilest of hypocrites when I gave my
money to churches and charities. Not a bit
of it. I delighted in doing generous actions

for their own sake ; and if I confess that I was
in too great haste to grow rich, still I believe
I should have sanctified my fortune to good
works when I had amassed it, and might have
died in the odour of benevolence, like a Peabody
or a Sir Joseph Mason. It was a headlong
race against Time, and Time won it by a neck
or so. That is God's own truth ; and so may
God help me, for He only knows how I have
suffered ! "

And then, worn out by agitation and weakened
by recent illness, the fugitive director
dropped his face in his hands, and broke down
in a storm of sobs and tears.

Chapter XXXYL

PENITENT AND CONFESSOR.

Ralph would have been soft as warm wax to
the weeping of a woman, and it was almost
worse with him when he saw this man crushed
down under the weight of hissing and sorrows.
His indignation was hot as ever ; his anger
was already half disarmed. If the sinner
should prove his penitence by making ample
atonement, why, he would try to forgive him,
as he trusted that God might.

"Do you fancy I have been the happier,"
said Smith, exciting himself again, "that I
have kept my person out of the clutches of the
law, and saved my treasure as well? — my
treasure 1 " and in the way in which he uttered
the word there was a world of commentary on
the text that all we most covet is vanity.

Ralph saw his opportunity and seized it.

Assuredly not ; what can all your money
profit you ? more than a millionaire, and a
hunted fugitive going about with a price on
your head and a slight disguise that may slip
from you again, as circumstances have stripped
it from you now ! So little do I fancy it, that
I believe no man could do you a greater kindness
than by persuading your better judgment
that it would be best to go straight back to
Scotland."

The instincts of self-preservation are strong,
especially when they have been ingrained as
the habits of one's life. With the lights of
semi-insanity flickering in his eyes. Smith
looked at Kalph with a glance of furtive suspicion.
"You are thinking already of going
back from your word ; you mean to betray
me into the hands of my enemies."

And he paced the deck with short irregular
strides, swinging his arms about, and muttering
sullenly to himself Another man might
have been sorely tempted to give him up, and
might have justified the breach of promise
by specious casuistry. Like Herod, Ralph
might have said to himself, " I have given a
hasty pledge ; but have I any right to hold

myself to it, considering the interests that are
affected ? " But Ralph had no idea of tampering
with evil that good might come, and it
was his principle that honesty was the best
policy in all circumstances.

A man of honour has only his word, and
I don't go back from mine, even when "

Even when you are dealing with a scoundrel
steeped in dishonour to the lips ? "

I did not say so, nor did I mean it altogether.
I see you have suffered intensely, Mr
Campbell. Nevertheless, you will forgive my
saying that I know you too little to judge
how far your penitence may be sincere. But
this I do know, that no man, situated as you
are, had ever a grander opportunity of retrieving
great part of the misery he has
helped to cause. May I ask," he added,
abruptly, " what scheme of life you have
sketched out for yourself, — what are your
immediate intentions in wandering like the
wandering Jew?"

Smith looked at him in surprise, and
broke out bitterly. '' Need you ask about my
future ? Of course it is a blank ; and as for
my immediate objects, I do not know that

they greatly concern you. But forgive me ;
I am wrong, and I forget my debt to you.
As I have told so much, I may tell you more ;
and after all, what does it all matter ? I consulted
doctors in Spain : they warned me that
I was threatened by consumption, — that one
lung was seriously affected already. They
said that my best chance was prolonged
residence in some tropical climate ; and it
struck me I might try Java, where I should
be little likely to meet with old acquaintances.
People say it is a paradise too ; if soit
was my only chance of getting a glimpse
at heaven."

There was so much of sadness and of despair
in his tone, that for the moment other
considerations were swallowed up in Ralph's
compassion. It was for Campbell's own sake,
not for that of the M or says — if they were alive
that he pled with the fugitive earnestly and
eloquently.

You may yet see another heaven than the
Spice Islands, if you will only listen while still
there is time. The door of retreat, the way of
noble reparation, is still open to you. But
should you shut the door now, with your own

VOL. HI. H

hand and with your eyes open, the sufferings
that have aged you and broken you ere now,
will be nothing to those you will endure for
the future. I speak it solemnly, and I know
what I am saying. The heaven] you are seeking
in the Dutch settlements will be the sure
foretaste of hell."

Mr Leslie, it will be admitted, had put the
case pretty strongly, and he walked away, leaving
his words to work. He guessed shrewdly
at the other man's nature and feelings. He
knew that after all Campbell had gone through,
the feeling that he might be at the crisis of
his fate would weigh with him more than anything.
For long he had resigned himself to
hopeless despondency. Ralph had shown him
that there were still glimmerings of hope
which might brighten into comfort again orbe
quenched in despair. And he believed that
Smith " would feel all depended on his present
decision.

Nor did those shrewd calculations deceive
him. After an anxious half-hour, his penitent
came up more cheerful than he had seen him
before. He spoke humbly and quietly, yet
with more of the air of an equal ; and the

prospect of retracing his steps had taken some
of the stoop out of his shoulders.

I am likely to owe you something more
than my life, Mr Leslie. I have come to you
for advice, or rather for instructions. I put
myself absolutely in your hands."

Let me understand you," said Kalph,
speaking very quickly, and vainly struggling
to repress his emotions. " You really mean to
act as I shall counsel you ? "

Can you look in my face, Mr Leslie, and
doubt it ? Can you be so blind as not to see
that your prescriptions have done me good
already. You are a tender sick-nurse, as I
know well ; but believe me, you are a better
doctor for the mind diseased than for the
body. My mind, such as it is, is made wp.
I go ashore at Penang ; I go back to Glasgow ;
and perhaps it is the best pledge of my sincerity,
that in so doing I sacrifice my life.
The air of a Scotch jail is scarcely likely to be
so beneficial for a consumptive as the breath
of the cinnamon and nutmeg groves of the
South."

What Campbell said was extremely natural ;
yet, after all, it was an unpleasant way of

putting it. It made Leslie act the executioner,
as well as the confessor and the judge, and
sentence the victim before him to slow but
certain death.

Leslie might have hesitated, but he would
not have drawn back. He had no idea at any
cost of compromising with what was right, and
that Campbell was taking the right course was
evident. But had he felt serious embarrassment,
Campbell would have come to the
rescue.

'rand should I die in prison, or in shame
and destitution, I shall be more grateful to
you for your advice, than for your help in the
cabin below here. We understand each other,
and no more need be said."

On second thoughts, however, it struck our
friend that something more ought to be said.
He knew little of Campbell, and had no strong
faith in sudden conversions. That Campbell
was sincere at the present moment he could
not doubt ; he said that were a detective to
turn up with a pair of handcuffs, the culprit
would stretch out his hands with satisfaction.
But once ashore on the wharves of Penang,
exchanging the close confinement of the ship

for the bustle of successful traffic, beyond the
reach of Leslie's presence and influence, the
good resolutions might vanish like the visions
of an ugly dream, and this slippery customer
might slip through their fingers. Where so
very much was at stake, it might be safer to
communicate with the colonial police; and yet,
in the circumstances, such a course was not
only ungenerous but actually out of the
question.

Here again the intelligent "Mr Smith," his
faculties sharpened by penitence and gratitude,
helped his preserver out of the dilemma.
Having repeatedly marked Ralph's eyes reflectively
fixed upon him, and as quickly diverted
again on being observed, on one of these occasions
Smith walked straight up to him.

Thanks to you, Mr Leslie, I am in so much
better spirits, that were it not a piece of impertinence,
I might say, 'A penny for your
thoughts.' Though, for the matter of that,
I can guess them. You have been puzzling
yourself as to what is to be done about me
when we arrive at Penang."

Ralph blushed and stammered, but could
not deny the impeachment.

"Well, I will tell you what you must do.
You must trust everything to me : for the best
of reasons, — that you cannot help yourself,
not to speak of your being fast tied by your
promise. Say you deliver me to the officers ;
and as there are no warrants out against me in
the Settlement, I doubt whether you can doit.
Say you detain me and have my identity
proved, and send me back to Scotland in custody.
Cui bono? You see, I remember
something of the humanities I picked up at
Glasgow High School. I should be punished,
no doubt ; but the bank would get no pecuniary
profit thereby. You could not betray
the financial confidences I placed in you ; and
if you could, each dollar of my American investments
is in the name of Van Swine, my
wife's nephew. But leave me free to go and
give myself up : I swear that I shall start by
the first packet ; that I shall make a clean
breast of all my delinquencies to the liquidators
; and that I shall strip myself of my last
shilling for their benefit. The only possible
hitch — you see, I play all my cards down on
the table — the only possible hitch is that Van
Swine should prove recalcitrant. But judging

by the past, I may count on that eccentric
honesty of his ; and, in any case, nobody can
influence him but I. That is the situation, Mr
Leslie. What do you say?"

Leslie had grasped the situation while
Campbell was defining it. If he had any misgivings,
it would have been a mistake to show
them ; but now he felt few or none.

I take your word of honour, Mr Campbell;
and I leave everything to your honour and
conscience. You are bound over now to honesty
by such tremendous penalties, that it is
far more your affair than mine or that of my
friends. And I am assured that, as we say in
Scotland, in spite of all that has come and
gone, you will die the honest man that you
used to be, and hold your head high hereafter
if not here."

CHAPTEK XXXVII.

MISS Moray's irish champion.

We are doomed to endure much needless
misery — none the less real that it is so absolutely
gratuitous. Leslie had had fair
reason for the apprehensions that had made
his voyage to the South a prolongation of
torments. But landing at Penang, he learned,
to his delight, that the terrible telegram had
been absolutely baseless. The matter for it
had been traced to some Dutchman at Saram-
bang, eager to do an injury to the Sumatra
Company. If the sender in any degree believed
in his news, the wish must have been
father to the thought, for at the time things
at Sangaa were tolerably tranquil. The immediate
relief was immense : second thoughts
in the reaction of feeling were less satisfactory.
For the Company's agents at Penang had received

recent and more reliable news which
told that troubles were brewing in the Settlement.
The Eesident was sanguine that they
could be easily repressed ; but he talked of
a trip to Sarambang, that he might seek a
personal interview with the Sultan.

As Leslie could not borrow the wings
of a bird, he had to make arrangements
as to his passage. Meantime, as we have
the advantage of him, and can transport
ourselves to the scene of his anxieties, we
may follow the fortunes of Moray and his
daughter.

Moray's first letters, as it may be remembered,
were full of hope. He saw no cause
to disbelieve in a great future for the Settlement.
It was no Poyais scheme, no "wildcat"
speculation, like the Eden of General
Sadder. But he foresaw considerable trouble
before arriving at the ends towards which he
was determined to push forward resolutely.
For himself, he had braced all his energies to
a work which he confidently counted on accomplishing.
In this beginning of a new life
he had regained his former spirits. The days
that had been dragging by so wearily before

he left England, were wellnigh forgotten with
the slow liquidation of the Bank claims. He
had left means for meeting all probable calls ;
and the loss of the fortune he had passed a
lifetime in amassing was already fading from
his memory. He had his daughter with him
new interests were opening before him, with
higher aims than mere trading profits and personal
aggrandisement. When he had tried his
hand at philanthropy among the masses of
Eastern London, though with a full purse and
practically unlimited credit, he had been but
one in a great army of workers — if not a mere
private in the ranks, at most a non-commissioned
officer. Now he was a politician, a
statesman, an autocratic administrator, ruling
a little Principality numbering some 80,000
souls. Nor, with the example of the Rajah
of Sarawak before him, need his influence be
limited to the Company's domain. He might
and he would put down piracy; he would
send messages of peace and goodwill among
his weaker, though warlike, neighbours; he
might do much to accelerate the process of
civilisation that had been barely begun in
the Sultanas of Sarambang. With those

prospects of usefulness opening before him,
coloured by a noble if an unavowed ambition,
perhaps Moray, settling down in his residential
seat at Sangaa, was happier than ever he had
been before.

His first impressions were only confirmed
on further acquaintance. Coal and copper
mines had already begun to be wrought ;
and it was certain they must soon yield
remunerative returns. Chinese immigrants
were already swinging the cradles at the
gold-washings with very satisfactory results.
But the real wealth of the Settlement was
in the climate and the teeming richness of
the soil, wherever the jungle and the forest
had been cleared from the banks of the river
and its tributaries. To say nothing of the
spice-groves that scented the air, the natives
were busy already in the sugar and the cotton
plantations, which stretched in glossy or
snowy shrubberies over alluvial soil, fertilised
by immemorial accumulations of leaf-mould.
And as a consequence of the security
his predecessor had already created, little
clusters of dwellings had been rising everywhere
on piles in shady nooks and angles

along the river, with the rickety landing-places
of planks, from which the cultivators
shipped their produce.

So far, all was satisfactory. The people
were naturally well disposed to a Government
which gave them the unaccustomed blessings
of peace and plenty. They could sow their
seed with easy minds, now that they were
sure of harvests and of markets for the harvests
: they could lie down in quiet under
their bamboo roofs, with no fear that the
village might be in a blaze before morning.
So far, then, all was well; nevertheless Mr
Moray soon discovered that this very tranquillity
held the germs of trouble for him.
He had to master the politics of the Settlement
for himself ; for though his subordinates
might be honest, they were certainly dull.
Happily he knew nearly enough of the Malay
language to be able to communicate with his
copper-coloured subjects ; at all events, he
knew more than enough to make it impossible
for interpreters to play tricks with him.
And speedily he began to find that in what
he had fancied a comfortable seat, there
were thorns thrusting themselves through the

cushions. On the one hand, the robber tribes
in the neighbourhood doubly resented the
new prosperity of the Sangaa folks. In the
first place, they were very naturally jealous ;
and in the next place, they were furious at
being restrained from their prescriptive rights
of reiving and pillage. More than once or
twice they had tried the old familiar game ;
each time the gallant Chamberlain had beaten
them back or baffled them. The death of
the firm English chief had given them fresh
courage ; and they had been eager to profit
by the interregnum. While, on the other
hand, there were Europeans and native princes
as well, all ready to utilise their discontent.
The Sultan of Sarambang was still friendly :
he had a heavy stake, as has been said, in
the wellbeing of the Company. But the
Sultan of Sarambang was a weak oriental,
and oriental manners prevailed at his Court.
He had a baker s dozen of brothers ; and ashe
knew very well, any one of the cadets of
his house would have gladly poisoned or
assassinated him. He had not the nerve fora
cleansing of the palace, or a domestic coup
d'etat, which would have effectually quenched

the malevolence in a "blood bath." Astute
foreign traders, presumed to be in the Dutch
interest, were intriguing with the malcontent
faction and subsidising it. The malcontents
were in intimate relations with the tribes
of discomfited pirates, already weighing the
chances of a successful descent upon Sangaa ;
and these tribes in their turn were believed
to be in communication with the scattered
inhabitants of the forests of Sangaa, who had
gained nothing as yet by the English annexation,
but who were restrained from their
favourite pursuits of robbery, fire-raising, and
head-hunting.

That was the situation as Moray saw it in a
month, and it may be added that he was not
far from the truth.

He thought matters over deliberately, and
promptly made up his mind. Like the stoker
of the Mississippi steamer in the wild Western
ballad, he saw that " his duty was a dead-sure
thing," and thenceforward nothing could turn
him from his purpose. Nevertheless, already
he painfully realised that the sweets of his
new post were to be mingled with bitters.
He had to break what she would regard as

bitterly bad news to his daughter, and steel
himself against her prayers and her tears.
She had come with him to this barbarous
country at the back of the world, on the tacit
understanding that they were not to be separated.
But now his duty tore them apart :
there was no help for it. When he told her
that he must make an expedition immediately
to Sarambang, and that he must go alone and
leave her behind ; — to the girl, who was already
beginning to give herself over to the
sensuous influences of the balmy air, the soft
beauties of nature, and the tropical hen-etre,
it was like a flash of lightning out of a cloudless
sky. She would have cared little could
she have accompanied him ; but on that point
he was adamant, and she could not gainsay
his arguments.

Do not pain me needlessly, Grace, by saying
more. God knows how gladly I would
take you with me ! Had the Company's
steamer been here, I might possibly have done
so. As it is, it is utterly out of the question.
There is no accommodation for an English
lady in these native boats — and from a native
boat you must land at Sarambang; and I

would never take my daughter to a barbarous
Court."

Put to her in that way, Grace could say no
more ; and by this time she knew her father
too well to insist. But he was bound, besides,
to say something of the reasons for his going ;
and soften them down as he might, they were
far from reassuring. The very fact that he
left her alone, argued his apprehension of some
urgent danger. Not that Grace thought very
much of herself, — and indeed she was too innocent
to apprehend the worst. On the contrary,
trying to forget herself and her fears,
she set herself to cheer her father.

Don't make yourself needlessly uneasy
about me, papa. I daresay I shall get on very
well in your absence. I would come out with
you, you know, and I am very glad that I
came."

But though both Grace and her father wore
brave faces, it was all they could do to bear
up before the separation. No one of his warlike
ancestors had given proof of greater courage
than Glenconan, when, with a set face that
was pale as resolute, he stepped into the great
proa that was to carry him to Sarambang.

As for Grace, she had bidden him farewell
before breaking down ; she had stood waving
her hand and her handkerchief as long as the
little fleet was in sight — for his own boat was
escorted by sundry others, all of them armed
to the teeth ; and then, in a storm of sobs and
tears, she had hurried up to the roof of the Residency.
Had she had any thoughts but for a
single man, she might have taken comfort
from the looks of the native guards, who
seemed to understand her desolation and sympathise
with it. Afterwards, indeed, she recalled
their demeanour to some purpose.
From the roof, she followed the fleet with
tearful eyes, as it was propelled by the sturdy
strokes of the sweeps, round the reaches of the
winding river. She seemed to see a happy
omen, as it slid, comparatively smoothly, over
the seething bar ; and still she watched it as,
standing out to sea, it steered its course for
the dim western headland. The taper masts
and yards were covered with light clouds of
billowy matting ; the sails filled slowly to a
favouring breeze ; and at last it melted away
in the distance, like a flight of butterflies
flickering in the sunset.

VOL. III. I

She went to bed to weep, and toss, and wear
the night away with broken prayers. Never
had she dreamed of feeling so utterly desolate,
so absolutely unprotected. " Oh, if Ralph were
only here ! " she moaned to herself again and
again ; and little did she fancy that very day
Ralph had been chafing on the wharves of Penang
and cursing the channel that separated
them. She saw the night through with those
broken prayers, and she rose from the bed
next morning a different girl. Not that her very
natural apprehensions were calmed. On the
contrary, she realised more clearly than before
the dangers that might threaten her, and very
likely she exaggerated them. But she had all
the pluck of the soldiers of her race, whose
spirits had risen naturally in critical circumstances.
She wished from the very bottom
of her heart that she were a man, — though
that, unfortunately, was past praying for.
Being a woman, however, she might do what
no man could do so well, and use her helplessness
as a shield against possible dangers. As
she had said in the letter to her friend Julia,
she believed in the chivalry of the Malays :
well, she would put it to the proof, and do

her utmost to assure their loyalty. Then, if
troubles should break out when her father
was away, she might animate the garrison in
the defence of the Settlement.

Though she had set herself diligently to the
study of the Malay grammar, as yet she had
got no further than its ABC. But she was
one of those women whose looks and smiles
say much ; and she had, moreover, a feminine
interpreter in whom she could trust. Moray,
after mature reflection, had decided on not
hampering his daughter with an English maid.
But they had picked up a Chinese polyglot at
Penang, who spoke broken English fairly welland
was much more fluent in the Malay tongue.
Already the girl had become fondly attached
to her young mistress. And now Grace and
her almond-eyed suivante, who followed her like
a shadow, were to be seen playing the parts of
Evening Berenger and Rose Hammock before
the defence of the Garde Dolorous. Indeed
there was a sinister resemblance in the circumstances
which more than once suggested
itself to Grace. The part, be it remembered,
seemed to come naturally enough to Miss
Moray. The daughter of the governor had

always appeared to the Malay soldiers as a
bright-humoured being from another world.
And now, what with her winning smiles and
kindly words — what with largesses of food and
fruits and liquor, — there was hardly a man of
them who might not have been easily intoxicated
into running amos for the sake of her
beautiful eyes. She had done well in losing
no time in taking her precautions and using
the only weapons she could handle. There
were spies in the Settlement in the pay of
the Company's enemies ; and the news of the
Eesident's departure, with good part of his
fighting force, spread like wildfire among the
many who were nearly interested in it.

The late Colonel Chamberlain had been a
strong man ; but so much could not be said
for his secretary and chief subordinate. Mr
Briggs, no doubt, was an excellent man of
business, and would have made a capital confidential
clerk in the City. He was honest
as the day, and thoroughly at home in the
mysteries of book-keeping and bills of lading.
He had drifted from Alexandria southwards
to Singapore, and so on to Sumatra; but he
was as much abroad in those islands of the

South as a Malay might be on the roof of a
metropolitan omnibus. Grace lost patience
altogether with the smug and kindly little
gentleman, who was always overpoweringly
civil, and who would have been paternal had
she permitted it. He lived in each day as if
there need be no tomorrow. He never seemed
to see an inch beyond his small snub nose ;
and he did his work thoroughly, conscientiously,
and well, like an entomologist peering
after beetles, who looked at life through the
lens of a microscope. He was left as acting
Eesident, as managing director — all the rest
of it. After all, he was not only the senior
Englishman, but the best educated man in the
Settlement ; and Moray, who hoped that everything
was safe till his return, could hardly help
himself. With much searching of heart, he
had confided his unprotected daughter to the
special care of Mr Briggs ; and the worthy
little clerk had undertaken the charge as he
would have undertaken any other duty in the
routine of his engagements.

For a week or so after her father's departure,
all had gone well, and nothing had occurred to
increase her anxieties. Shaking herself gradually

free of her fears, as lie began to hope for
his speedy return, she was sauntering on the
little lawn between the Residency and the
river late one evening, and in more buoyant
spirits than usual. The serene beauty of the
tropical night — the stars that had already
begun to flash and sparkle, though the sun had
scarcely gone down in a blaze of crimson — the
silent sweep of the great bats through the
scented air — the droning hum of the broad-winged
beetles, — all contributed to soothe her.
Where everything was so peaceful in the star-spangled
twilight, it seemed impossible that
there could be trouble impending. Yet she
might have remembered that nature, like man,
may wear a mask, and that in the dusky solitudes
of those silent woods were venomous
serpents and prowling jaguars.

A rustling in the bushes near may have reminded
her of the fact. She started with a
half suppressed shriek; for though a brave
girl, she was but a woman after all, and besides,
there might be very real danger. She was
but partially reassured, when a man, and a
white man, stepped out of the shrubs. She
knew him, as she knew by sight the few Europeans

in Sangaa ; and this " Sergeant " EafFerty,
as lie was styled, was one of the most conspicuous
of them. She had spoken more than
once to the man, and made sundry inquiries
about him, for he had rather interested her.
There had been a good deal of romance in his
career ; and as he said himself, the civil a bit
of use was there in his trying to keep his
secrets, for they would always come out when
the drink went in. The drink had indeed
been the bane of Mr Kafferty, who might
otherwise have been a creditable member of
the little community. As he further said, it
was the drink that had tumbled him downstairs
from a decent position ; he had always
holes in his pockets, so that the halfpence
would be for ever rowling out ; it was the
drink that had brought him down to this
Sumatra, which he took to be pretty near at
the bottom of the world ; and whether he was
to lave his bones there or fall any farther, civil
a one of him either knew or greatly cared. In
fact, neither knowing nor caring summed up
his character; but he had the invaluable
quality under present circumstances of constitutional
intrepidity or recklessness.

The Sergeant stepped forward with a military
salute. It was noteworthy that the man,
usually so ready to talk, waited respectfully
for the lonely young lady to address him ; for
in spite of his foibles and vices, Eafferty was
much of a gentleman. And knowing what he
came to say, he behaved far more respectfully
than if she had been under the escort of her
father, the Eesident, who had at Sangaa almost
the power of pit and gallows that had once
been possessed by his forefathers in Glenconan.


As for Grace, she had no fear of him, but
she felt a foreboding that he was the bearer of
evil tidings. She longed to know, yet dreaded
to ask ; and seeing what was passing in her
mind, Eafferty no longer hesitated.

I should beg you to pardon me, me lady,
for staling on you unawares ; but sure this is
no time for standing on ceremony. I was
bint upon speaking without them Malays
knowing anything of it ; and so I have been
gaping a look-out upon the grass here from
a bit of a boat on the father."

What is it ? Do speak, Mr Eafferty ! "

And sure, miss, what else would it be that

I came for ? But don't you be bothering' and
making yourself unaisy — it may be little after
all. I know nothing of that jabber of theirs,
bad luck to it ! and it will be time enough to
cry out when we're hurt."

It was a very Irish piece of comfort, considering
that the man had clearly come to
warn her of dangers in the hope that they
might be prevented. It appeared that the
acute Mr Kafferty had seen reason to suspect
that something was being plotted somewhere
among the natives. The Malays of the Settlement
were in a state of excitement which
they took little pains to conceal. Scouts had
been sent up the river in the long, snake-like
light craft ; messengers had been coming and
going through the jungles. He opined that
an attack was threatened, and he greatly
doubted whether "thin niggers were to be
trusted," who formed the staple of the
garrison.

Grace, after questioning the man, shared his
alarms and his doubts as well. The Malays
had seemed to be friendly towards herself;
but nevertheless they might be anxious to be
rid of their European masters, and have an

understanding with warriors of their own
blood and colour who might be threatening
Sangaa from without. With the Resident and
half his fighting force away they could hardly
have a better opportunity. The natural person
she would have consulted in such an
emergency was Mr Briggs, and thinking half
aloud, the name escaped her lips.

"Is it Briggs then?" queried Mr Eafferty,
in tones of infinite contempt. In his disgust
he spat upon the ground, and forthwith became
covered with confusion.

I ask your pardon, miss, from the very
bottom of my heart ; but if I had thought
Briggs had anything bigger than the soul of a
newly hatched chicken, I would never have
come to you."

Grace could not help smiling, her anxiety
notwithstanding. If she did not say so, she
was much of Mr Eafferty 's opinion, — though, as
will be seen, they did the little man injustice.
She rapidly reviewed the situation in her
mind. If an attack on the place were really
intended, she felt that the sole chance of
safety was in the loyalty of the native settlers.
After all, they had reason to be satisfied with

a Government which promised them peace as
well as wealth.

EafFerty was disposed respectfully to differ.

The Lord, He knows well that they're
fond enough of money, come by it how they
may. But as for pace, they prefer fighting toit
any day ; and why wouldn't they ? " he
added, with judicial candour. " I come from
Tipper mary myself, and I like them none the
worse for that."

Indeed, Sergeant Eafferty was the sort of
man who would have smoked his pipe on a
powder-barrel, and found the situation lend
additional flavour to his tobacco. His sole idea
in coming to Grace seemed to have been to
volunteer to defend her and the Residency
with his single arm. But he was open to
conviction, and she succeeded in persuading
him that it was improbable that any single
man could protect four sides of an extensive
square against assailants practically innumerable.


I might be murdered, sure enough — not
that it signifies ; but what would become of
you ? Soul of the blessed St Patrick, what
will we do thin, at all, at all ? "

"Will you do what I ask you, Rafferty?"

What else did I come for ? You may
count on Jack EafFerty, body and spirit, till
your father comes back, and beyond that."

God grant he might come back ! Well,
RafFerty, you know where to find Matusin ? "

Matusin was one of the former chiefs of
Sangaa, and now occupied a semi-official position
as head man of the native community.
In short, it was through Matusin that the
Resident directed great part of the domestic
politics.

I can find the blackguard fast enough.
Unless the civil has stirred him up to do mischief,
he'll be sitting smoking and drinking all
the night with the rest of them. Bead, but
it's they nigger chiefs that have the fine time
of it ! "

Well, will you go straight to Matusin from
me ? show him this ring of mine, and ask him
to come to the Residency here, and to come at
once. I don't think there is any danger for
you; and if there were, I am sure it would not
hinder you from doing my errand."

Mr Rafferty snorted contemptuously at the
word danger, and did not even deign a reply

to that part of the speech. " But how if he
would refuse to come ? "

I don't think that he wilL Whatever his
intentions, he is strong enough to act as he
pleases. Go on my errand at any rate. We
must leave the rest to God."

Eafferty took the ring and made a dart at
the bushes, through which lay the nearest way
to his boat. Then, struck by a thought, he
hurried back. " But if he should refuse to
come, and should keep hold of me, you will
never believe that I desired you, miss ? "

No, no, Eafferty. I trust you as I would
trust my father, were he here."

"Then by this and that" — and Eafferty
dropped on one knee with instinctive chivalry,
" by this and that, and till I have seen you
safe through this blessed business, not a drop
of drink shall pass my lips, were they as
cracked as the ' craythur,' as they call it, on
the mountain behind."

And Grace felt very grateful to the man
for the pledge of devotion, though she could
scarcely appreciate all the sublimity of his
sacrifice.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A MODERN Evening BERENGER.

When she had despatched her messenger,
Grace felt anxious enough. More than she
dared to think of depended on the coming
interview ; for that it would be granted, she
did not doubt. But in the meantime there
was something to be done in the way of preparation.
The sending the ring had been a
stroke of diplomacy : it was the symbol of an
authority she did not possess. Her real
strength, as she felt, was in her weakness, in
her youth and her unprotected situation. She
hoped to appeal to the Malay's chivalry as
well as to his self-interest. So she made hasty
arrangements to set her house in order ; she
had the state room disposed with an eye to
effect; and last, though by no means least,
she made certain alterations in her toilet.

Then she warned her faithful maid to be ready
act as interpreter, though Matusin had some
slight knowledge of English, and so, to a certain
extent, she could communicate with him
directly.

Her suspense did not last long, and it was
just as well ; for when she had nothing further
to busy herself over, she began to feel painfully
nervous. The feeling passed away, when,
looking out from the verandah, she heard the
plash of the oars in the stream, and saw the
flashing of scores of torches. Matusin was
coming to make his visit in state. Was he
coming as a master to dictate his terms, or as
the loyal burgomaster of Sangaa, to pay his
duty to the Resident's daughter ?

She glided back from the verandah into the
room and waited ; she could hear the wild
beating of her heart. It seemed a good omen
that her visitors were landing in dignified
silence ; and now that suspense was drawing
to an endi'und the critical moment approached,
her courage rose to face the occasion.

The hangings of matting were drawn aside,
and Matusin stood in the doorway. The
Malay had a certain air of dignity : he was

somewhat past middle age, rather a bulky
man, and his dignity was set off by his dress
and draperies. He wore the usual costume of
a chief of his station and wealth — a dark-green
velvet jacket, the collar stiffened with heavy
tracery of gold-thread ; loose trousers of dark
cloth, likewise edged with gold, and a flowing
strong of the soft dark plaid that is woven by
the women in their native looms. A couple
of arises with richly chased handles were
thrust through his girdle. And immediately
behind this stately apparition — and a cheering
sight it was to Miss Moray, for it seemed
to imply a friendly understanding with the
natives — was Mr Rafferty, evidently on his
best behaviour, but nevertheless winking intimations
of encouragement.

Had she known all that was passing in her
visitor's mind, she might have been less satisfied.
Indeed, Matusin was in two minds
rather than one, and her message had reached
him in the nick of time, when a decision was
trembling in the balance. The Malay was
chivalrous in his way, and courageous to boot,
but at the same time, like most orientals, an
accomplished hypocrite. He was full of graceful

observance, and almost obsequious deference,
to the Resident's daughter ; while he was
thinking whether it were not probable that,
himself aiding and abetting, she might not bea
slave and a captive within four-and-twenty
hours. Had she shown signs of feebleness,
her fate might have been sealed. But Grace's
natural courage had been animated by the
belief that she could count upon Matusin's
support and friendship ; and in the reaction of
her spirits, she spoke with a confidence that
did not fail to produce its effect. Matusin
was a well-informed and intelligent man, and
he knew something of the tenacity with which
Europeans kept their hold on any place they
had once touched with the tips of their fingers.
He knew the Sultan of Sarambang favoured
the white strangers ; and for himself, he would
gladly perpetuate a state of things which had
greatly increased his wealth, if it had diminished
his personal consequence. Grace's confidence
began to gain upon him : he fancied
the girl could never have shown such spirit
had she not reason to know that her father
was at hand with powerful succour. Matusin
had a rather formidable fighting force at his
VOL. Il K

disposal, in a stockaded town ; moreover, he
had old allies and acquaintances among the
armed bands that were threatening it, and he
pretty nearly came to the conclusion that it
would be well to stand by the English.

So, from being ceremoniously reverential he
became blandly confidential, and told the stately
young lady nearly all he knew. Certain of the
forest-tribes in the Sangaa territories, stirred
up by agents and strengthened by bands from
beyond the frontiers, had determined to make
themselves masters of the Settlement either by
arrangement with the inhabitants or by assault.
They said, too, — and Matusin was inclined to
believe it, — that a piratical fleet from the territories
to the southward was mustering for
their support. So much Grace gathered,
partly from the chiefs broken English, partly
from the interpretation of her handmaiden.
Then in turn she began to speak with an
energy and cogency of argument which surprised
herself In seeming to trust implicitly
to Matusin's loyalty, she appealed strongly to
his self-interest. When she remarked that,
should their enemies get possession of the
place, he would infallibly be pillaged sooner

or later, it was very evident that he understood
her, and dare not say Nay. Then she
spoke of the speedy arrival of her father ; of
his courage and generosity; of the deep revenge
he should take on any one who should
play him false or injure his daughter ; on the
rewards he would freely lavish on the faithful
friends who should defend her. I do not say
that her charms and her commanding manner
weighed with the Malay chief as much as her
arguments ; but undoubtedly they had no
small influence on him. By the prophet and
the holy stone, by all the most solemn pledges
binding on his countrymen, he vowed that
Sangaa should be defended till the return of
the great white Sultan, unless — and the gesture
that ended the sentence implied — unless
the assailants should pass over his corpse.
Grace thanked her native champion, and dismissed
him with the graceful affability of a
princess born in the purple.

Eighty or wrongly she believed in him,
and so far she felt greatly relieved. At the
same time, it was no light matter to be left
there in her loneliness, looking forward to
the probability of a bloody assault, and a

succession of skirmishes or battles to be fought
out by savages. And even should the assailants
be repulsed from the Settlement, if
there were truth in the rumours of the gathering
of that piratical fleet, it might come from
the southward to the aid of their - enemies
before her father could appear from the north.
And yet, by the way, if Moray knew what
was happening at Sangaa, he might surely
obtain succour from the Sultan.

Shaking off her terrors as best she could,
and trusting herself to the God of the helpless,
she determined to do all that could be
done. There was no reason to despair, but
there was urgent necessity for action. Within
an hour one of the swiftest pross belonging
to the Company, and manned by men whom
Rafferty believed he could answer for, had
been despatched to Sarambang with letters
for her father.

She went through the form of going to
bed, but she was up again before the larks,
or the birds that answer to our larks in
these southern latitudes. Under the guard
of Mr Rafferty, though she made him leave
his arms behind, for she was resolved to show

absolute confidence in the natives — " Devil
a wan of me would thrust them," soliloquised
her escort, as he concealed a knife and a
couple of revolvers in his ample shirt-bosom
she went the round of the strag^iino^ town.
She had every reason to be satisfied with
what she saw. Matusin was clearly preparing
to defend himself in earnest. He had set
gangs of his people to work on the stockades,
strengthening the stakes and building up the
breaches. The women were cutting down
the rank weeds and clearing soil from the
bottoms of the ditches ; the men were stacking
piles of ammunition near some half-dozen
of light field-pieces and howitzers that grinned
here and there out of embrasures in low earthworks.
But what showed more than anything
else that the Malay chief meant fighting,
was the measures that were being taken
immediately above the town. Where the
Sangaa river contracted into a narrow channel,
running between steep banks overhung with
shrubbery, a great tree was being felled on
either side. One of them came down with
a crash as she reached the spot, sending
the showers of spray into her face, and forming

an abattis of foliage impracticable to any
boat, beneath the huge trunk that spanned the
stream by way of a rough sylvan flying-bridge.

Bead, but we should be safe in that
quarter anyhow!" exclaimed Eafferty ; "and
thin barbarous niggers must have the hides
of their alligators if they find their way through
the bushes there, even in open order, without
laving both skin and flesh behind."

For eight-and-forty hours there was no
great change in the situation. Incidents and
excitement there were in abundance, with perpetual
"alarms," as they say in the stage
directions of the old plays. That the beleaguering
savages were abroad with fire and sword
there could be no manner of doubt. Boats
came shooting down the river, bearing homeless
fugitives wailing piteously for the relatives
who had been slaughtered under their
eyes or carried away into a captivity worse
than death. Confirmatory evidence came in
the shape of the mutilated corpses that floated
down the stream, to be brought up by the
branches of the improvised abattis. The fugitives
told tales of sacked villages, of flames
spreading far and wide through their crops

and their orchards, where everything was dryad
tinder after a protracted drought. Grace
shuddered as she listened to the horrible
stories : with a woman's sympathy she did alla
woman could do who knew nothing of the
speech of the fugitives, to relieve the destitute
and to console the bereaved. But all the same,
in the practical turn of the heroism which felt
bound to preserve the Settlement for which
her father was responsible, she neglected no
opportunity of impressing the moral of those
events on Matusin. If the enemy remorselessly
plundered the miserable peasants who
had neither dared nor tried to defend themselves,
how would they deal with a man who
was notoriously rich, and who had identified
himself with the hated occupation of the English?
But Matusin, having once taken the
leap, was like the willing horse who needs no
spurring. He knew now that in the event
of the place being taken he had little mercy
to expect, — that he must sink or swim with
the handful of Europeans.

During the daytime things were comparatively
tranquil ; but through two successive
nights the dusky starlight was made terrible

by sights and sounds that kept the garrison
on the alert. Scarcely had the sun gone down
before there was a descent of flotillas of boats
on the upper reaches of the river. Thanks
to the felled trees that blocked the waterway,
these flotillas were safe from any counter-attack.
And each of the boats was illuminated
by a fire in a brazier ; on board of each
was one or more war-gongs : and each night
these infernal illuminations and diabolical concerts
were provided for the excitement of the
inhabitants of Sangaa.

It was strange to see how differently the
handful of Europeans was affected by the unfamiliar
dangers that threatened them. There
were men who might have been brave enough
in an ordinary way, when blended in the rank
and file of a regiment, who became absolutely
helpless in their fear of this barbarian onslaught,
as certain savages of those forests are paralysed
in presence of the python. The whites had
been drawn back into the Residency, and employed
in strengthening its defences by way
of a citadel ; though some of them who knew
something of serving guns were told off to
the field-pieces on the first line of defence.

So that Grace had every opportunity of studying
their characters, which she did, very much
to her own surprise, as if it were a problem
with little personal interest for her. In fact,
what with excitement and want of sleep, she
was living in a factitious state of exaltation,
though her brain was clearer and her resolutions
were more prompt than she had ever
known them before.

She remarked that the volatile and harebrained
Mr Eafferty, when the immediate
work of provisionally fortifying the Residency
was done, had become almost phlegmatic.
Though always ready to spring to attention
when she came near, though he would follow
her with the fidelity and jealousy of a favourite
dog, yet at other times he would smoke
cheroots with his hands in his pockets ; he
was lulled into tranquil slumbers by the discord
of the rebel gongs ; and as he might
have said himself, he seemed to be " blue-moulded
for want of the bating he was very
likely to get."

But if Eafferty's demeanour surprised her,
she was still more astonished by the behaviour
of Mr Briggs. The little man had as little

amour propre ; and when she told him, with
some hesitation, of the important arrangements
she had made without consulting him, he had
not stood for a moment on his dignity as
nominally the deputy-governor. So, as the
best of women might do, she of course took
advantage of his weakness, and simply gave
him something like peremptory orders to come
under the shelter of the Residency.

'ras it is to be a sort of inner citadel of the
defence, Mr Briggs, you will be safe there, if
you are safe anywhere."

Had a crushed worm turned under her
slipper, and, speaking like the ass of the
prophet, expostulated against being trodden
upon, she could scarcely have been more taken
aback than when Briggs showed a will of his
own, and determination.

•'You have taken over the charge of the
Settlement and the Residency, Miss Moray,
and I do not blame you. You may be more
competent than I am, and I daresay you may
have as good a right. I see that you can do
much with Matusin and his Malays, and therefore
I said nothing. But your father at least
left the cash-box and the state papers in my

charge, and no fear of consequences shall
induce me to be parted from them."

'but why should you, Mr Briggs?" exclaimed
Grace, greatly touched. " I ought to
have considered your feelings more, perhaps,
but I had no idea you felt so strongly. You
can bring the money and the papers with you,
you know : they will be safer in the Residency
than anywhere else."

Pardon me again, madam," said the little
gentleman, by no means soothed, and with
more formality than before. " Even if I could
find trustworthy bearers to transport what
money there is — and much of it is in silver,
and consequently bulky — the papers are in
the fire-proof safe that Colonel Chamberlain
ordered out from Cannon Street. It is built
into the brickwork, and it is out of the
question moving it."

Of course ; but my father has left you the
key, I suppose. Bring the papers to the house
here, and we can bury the money in the garden."

"As it is probable that there will be a
conflagration in the Settlement to-day or tomorrow,
the place of those important papers
is in Chubb's patent fire-proof safe. Should

they perish there, I cannot help it ; and I
think the Malays will have trouble in picking
the lock. Should they be lost or destroyed
elsewhere, I should be justly held responsible.
Ah, miss," went on the little man, as he
warmed up, "you thought I was a coward,
not worthy of a word or a thought ; and so
perhaps I may be. You might have thought
still worse of me had you known all the misery
I have gone through from the sound of those
abominable gongs. But I do know my duty ;
I know how I earn my salary, and my place is
by the safe and the cash-box. The Malays
may tear me limb from limb, or burn me at
a slow fire, as they have done to better menon
smaller provocation ; at least I shall die at
my post, and you shall see that a clerk maybe
a martyr."

And a hero, Mr Briggs," returned Grace,
with a smile that went to his heart, through
the tears that wellnigh blinded her. " One
thing is, that should you die as you say, none
of the rest of us will be left to mourn for you.
But if we live, as I believe we shall, and see
brighter days, be sure that I for one shall do
justice to your heroism."

In such a state of tidings suspense could not
be greatly prolonged ; and it was just as well,
since human nerve-power has its limits. That
afternoon Grace's spirits involuntarily fell :
excitement was sinking down into intense
depression. So it was more or less with the
rest of the Europeans ; for the heavens and
the very air seemed pregnant with ominous
portents. The murky atmosphere had been
thickening all the day, and by the evening
was overcharged with electricity. Black banks
of clouds, gathering over the sea, had been
shifting inland, till the bright sky was hidden
behind a lowering canopy, which seemed to
rest on the tops of the tallest cocoa-nut palms.
Sea-birds had been floating landward with the
clouds, either flying low in the unnatural
silence, or occasionally uttering a plaintive
cry. The air was hot — hot — and as yet there
was no sign of rain ; and those who watched
the signs of the weather would have welcomed
the threatened deluge, were it only to draw
away impending conflagration, for it seemed
as if one spark might set everything in a
blaze.

The fire came before the water. Grace,

wandering between her rooms and the verandah
like a restless spirit, dropped involuntarily
into the nearest chair, and covered her
eyes with her hands ; while her maid, though
used to tropical thunderstorms, was sending
out shriek on shriek. The strange stillness
had been suddenly broken by a roar over
the roof of the Kesidency, as if several tons of
dynamite had exploded right over the thatch.
The deafening peal, if peal it could be called,
which sounded like the simultaneous discharge
of the world's parks of artillery, was accompanied,
rather than preceded, by a blinding
blaze of light, that flashed home to her brain
through shut eyes and crossed fingers. Then
after that appalling salvo, the cannon of the
heavens began to play, in dropping discharges
at irregular intervals ; and once, confused as
she was, she could distinctly distinguish the
crashing and shivering of timber on the lawn
under the windows. How long she sat, with
swimming brain, in the prostration of terror
and soul-mastering awe, she never knew. She
was roused from her stupor by Eafferty bursting
into the room, without going through the
ceremony of knocking — though indeed, had

he opened the door with a grenade, it could
hardly have made much difference. Nor was
the appearance of that faithful follower calculated
to reassure her. The devil-may-care
Irishman was pale as death, and muttering
invocations to the Blessed Virgin. Still the
presence of the man helped to bring her to
herself. She found strength to stand upon
her trembling limbs ; and reaching out a hand
to seize his arm, she staggered back to the
verandah. After all, as she tried to tell herself,
she had never been afraid of English
thunder ; and were it not for nerves that had
been painfully overstrained, she would not
have been frightened now. At another time
indeed, and had her father's arm been around
her, she might have admired the tremendous
magnificence of the spectacle. One moment
there was a black darkness that might be
felt ; the next, the veil would be rent as by
the mighty hand of the Invisible and Omnipotent,
and the lacey of each leaf and twig
stood out in a lurid illumination that might
have come from Hades, or from anywhere
between heaven and hell. And as she stood
and gazed and trembled, after a wilder peal

a brilliant meteor, shooting swiftly across the
night, pitched under a mighty areca-tree on
the lawn, and seemed to ricochet in rippling
electricity over the river.

May God be good to us all ! " ejaculated
RafFerty, through chattering teeth ; and then,
remembering that he was the sworn champion
of the lady who still leaned on him, he went
on — " Not that wan of me cares much ; and
after all is said and done, miss, thin devils
outside will never stir in this weather. May
the saints forgive me for speaking of devils ! "

As if in answer to him, a preternaturally
long lull was broken by sounds that seemed
insignificant to those that had gone before ;
and yet they were ominous of a more terrible
danger. There came a clashing of the gongs
and a shouting of war-cries from the Malay
posts ; and as the clamour would occasionally
sink and fall, Grace fancied she could hear
them answered from the distance by something
like faint echoes.

Mr Rafferty had no doubt on the matter.
The wild Irishman had sharp ears ; and now
that he realised a danger that was material
and tangible, Richard was himself again.

I spoke too soon, miss — and just like me !
I might have known the devils would be at
home, and abroad too, in their own particular
element of fire and sulphur. Luckily, there's
little to choose between our friends and them,
and our niggers have got the stockades and
the guns before them. Anyhow, it is high
time I was laving you."

But your place is in the house here,"
EafFerty.

And so I will be in my place when the
attack comes this way ; but in the meantime,
the fun is up the river, and Mister Mathieson
may have his hands full. I'll just lave Jackson
in charge, and be back again, if need be,
in a pig's whisper."

You are right ; we must show ourselves to
the Malays at first. Nay, it is no use your
objecting ; I am going with you to Matusin.
I can come back with you."

Eafferty lost no time in protesting, as a
more prudent and responsible individual might
have done. He felt, besides, that protests
would be idle — and there he was right. Miss
Moray was submissive to her father, but would
have her way with everybody else. In five

VOL. III. L

minutes they had given certain directions ;
they had crossed the lawn, and Eafferty had
handed the lady into a boat. Pulling steadily
against the stream, in lightning that lighted
the clear water to its depths, in five minutes
more they surprised the Malay chief. His
admiration of the heroic English girl was extreme,
though he had little leisure to express
it. As his eyes lighted up to give her a
welcome, Grace felt that her visit had been
well-timed. It was certain that the Malays
would fight more stanch for having seen
that she exposed herself to danger with indifference.
But all the more easily she yielded
to the joint expostulations of the chief and
Eafferty, and withdrew to the shelter of a
hut on a little rising ground in the rear
of the attack and defence. Thence, from a
"front place" beneath a cluster of feathering
palms, she could see all that was to be
seen.

Not that what was to be seen was much.
There was " more cry than wool," more noise
made than damage done. The opposing forces,
separated by the fallen trees and the impervious
jungle, exchanged provocations and

missiles, without the possibility of coming to
close quarters.

Each, sure, thin," remarked EafFerty, who
had come back to her in disgust, " for all the
fine show they made, coming out in the thunder,
they are but braggarts after all. It was
not worth turning out, with the chance of getting
wet to the skin, to see nothing more thana
solitary nigger with a spent musket-ball in
his instep. They can be no great captains
that are against us ; and I'd back Mister
Mathieson against them any day."

As to putting his money on Mr Matusin,
Eafferty might have been right ; but he had
underrated the strategy of the beleaguering
forces. Though the noisy attack was kept up,
he escorted Miss Moray back to the Residency.
The storm had pretty well passed over, and
the danger seemed to have passed with it.
Breathing a heartfelt prayer of gratitude fora
double escape from danger, she sank back
into the chair she had quitted some hours before,
and ordered her servants to provide
EafFerty with refreshments.

Prayers can never be misplaced, but the
form of this one was rather premature. I do

not think I have dwelt before on the topography
of the town of Sangaa ; but it may be
mentioned now that the Kesidency had been
built rather with an eye to commercial advantages
and beauty of situation than to strategical
considerations. Sangaa, in fact, was meant
for a trading town, not for a fortress ; and the
Residency stood on a reach of the river, in a
receding back angle of the stockaded works.
It was surrounded by lawns, by gardens and
orchards ; and beyond, the jungle came nearly
up to the stockades. It is true that the jungles
were so thick that they might have been
regarded as an additional protection, even
against such assailants as the Malays of those
forests.

Grace, then, was lying back in her chair,*
and Eafferty, after having apologised for the
familiarity with an indifferent assumption of
bashfulness, had begun vigorously to handle
a knife and fork, when the young lady, doomed
to an ascending gamut of sensations, sprang a
second time out of her seat. This time it was
no noise from the heavens that she heard ; the
sound seemed rather and unmistakably to
come from the opposite quarter.

The beleaguering chiefs having assured themselves
of the difficulty of forcing the abattis,
had ordered a feigned attack on it. The real
onslaught was to be directed against two other
places, and one of these was the Residency.
But if there are miscalculations in the combinations
of scientific warfare, barbarians are
still more likely to miss connections. The
force that was to "swarm up" to the Residency
was made up of men from three mutually
jealous tribes. One of the bands had gone
astray ; a second had been brought to a deadlock
in a sylvan impasse; and the third, in
their pride and triumph at having arrived,
had forgotten all their savage sagacity and
prudence. They had reached the stockade,
and were scrambling over it unobserved, when
the foremost of them began to whoop and to
halloo. The untimely demonstration gave the
alarm to a native guard who had been bivouacked
between the Residency and its outworks.
The friendly Malays, seizing their weapons,
fell hastily back upon the house, which had
been provisionally fortified against the probabilities
of disaster. So that the natives,
backed up by the European reserves, were

ready to make a good fight of it under
cover.

Yet the assailants were so audacious, and
so reckless of their lives, that they might have
made their way into the house notwithstanding
a stubborn defence. They crept forward,
through bushes which ought to have been cut
down, to the very foot of the balconies. More
than one of them actually tried to climb the
pillars which supported the verandahs of the
first floor. Grace, peeping downwards through
the jalousies, looked down into fiercely gleaming
eyes and rolling white eyeballs. Then the
eye would be eclipsed, as a death-shot or a
stab from above struck the owner ; and he
would disappear with a dull thud in the dimness,
rolling backwards in the agonies of death.
But the attack was not effectually repulsed till
Eafferty set himself seriously to direct the fire
of a rocket-tube. Then the natives were seized
with such superstitious terrors as they had
never experienced through the worst of the
storm. They shrank back from these missiles,
which seemed to follow them and search them
out like sentient beings, through the very
labyrinths and intricacies of the jungle. There

was a panic and a " save who can," and the onslaught
for the time was a failure. When day
broke on the battle-ground, nothing was to be
seen but a few fallen and mangled bodies, some
of them still breathing. But Grace's sense of
comparative security was sadly shaken, and
she felt that when the attack was again renewed
on the Residency, she would be in the
very forefront of the battle. Nor was it only
or chiefly for herself that she feared. Should
her letter have miscarried, or should her father
miss the messengers, returning with the weak
force he had started with, he might run unconsciously
into the arms of the enemy.
Nothing, indeed, was more likely ; yet what
could she do but pray, and strive to hope ?

CHAPTER XXXIX.

PRIZE OF WAR.

It boots not to tell at length how Moray had
sped on his mission to the Sultan. The Scot,
with his great knowledge of the East, had attained
a success beyond his hopes, and had succeeded
chiefly by showing himself in his natural
character. His manly bearing, his frank yet
courteous manners, the calm but keen glance
of the eye, the commanding dignity of his stalwart
person, had all imposed on the Malay.
As we have seen, the Sultan had a considerable
personal interest in the prosperity of the English
Company. Sure that the merchants could
never become his masters — he had never read
the history of the English in Hindustan — he
welcomed them as a counterpoise to the
Dutch, a power that was always to be dreaded.
After the death of Chamberlain, he had inclined

to yield if he had not actually lent
himself to the intrigues that were being
actively pushed forward at his Court. But
he hated and he feared those brothers of his
who fomented them, and distrusted and despised
the foreign adventurers with whom they
originated. The arrival of Moray was a pleasure
and a relief. A quick judge of character,
a worshipper of strength, he saw at once that
he had to deal with a man, and that the reins
of administration at Sangaa were to be tightened
in an iron grasp. The Sultan delighted
to honour the Scotchman. He sent him a
robe of honour ; he offered him rich presents.
With the swift transition so common in oriental
politics, the loyalists or Court party were
at once in the ascendant. Warriors passed
over to it ; the brothers of the Crown began to
think of making a bolt ; and the adventurers,
who had fancied their game as good as won,
felt their heads sitting uncomfortably on their
shoulders. Nor was Moray the man to neglect
his opportunities. He had brought a supply
of money as well as gifts, and he distributed
both liberally but discreetly, so that after a
very few days, if there was a difficulty in the

situation, it was that the Pharaoh of Saram-
bang was loath to let him go. But by this
time Moray's footing had become so strong,
that he could speak to the Sultan with the
frankness of friendship. He told him that he
had left an unprotected daughter in circumstances
which, to say the least, were somewhat
critical ; and he pledged his honour that a
prompt departure would be followed by a
speedy return.

So the Sultan was persuaded by this diplomatist
to act on the old Scotch saying, and
professed himself ready to speed his parting
guest. Had he needed help in the way of
war-galleys, Moray might have had it to any
extent. The nobles and the chiefs were only
too willing to form a war-squadron to take him
back in triumph. Moray was content with
the moral influence he had regained, and only
asked for one chief of rank as companion,
furnished with full powers as the Sultan's
accredited representative. Even had the necessity
been more urgent, he would have
scrupled as to engaging a fleet of volunteers,
who might have insisted upon turning the expedition
into a pleasure-party — i.e., sacking

peaceful villages, and making curious collections
of heads.

With his strong will and his tact, Moray
had his way, and that without turning either
his friends or his flatterers into secret enemies.
He had named the noble Malay to be sent as
his companion — a man in as high repute for
honesty as for courage. Pangaran Jaffir had
become the sworn brother-in-arms of the Scottish
governor, the bond having been ratified
by solemn ceremonial and mysterious religious
rites. Thenceforward, he was to be counted
upon for life or death. And Moray had special
reasons for selecting him, inasmuch as he
had had territory in the neighbourhood of
Sangaa, and still prided himself on some
hereditary influence over the surrounding
tribes.

So it was settled : the sailing had been
fixed for the following day, and a grand feast
of dismissal was being given at the palace
the evening before the morning of departure.
Everything had so far gone ofi* well ; and
when the malt threatened to get above the
meal, as they say in Scotland, — that is to
say, when the banqueters began to warm with

the flow of talk and the strong liquors, —
Moray had suggested to the Sultan the propriety
of retiring. He was in high spirits
himself — all had gone so well with him : nor
was he insensible to the evident respect and
admiration of the gallant though wild chivalry
that surrounded the board.

When of a sudden there came an interruption
that startled the Sultan and his company,
as the writing on the wall had scared Belshazzar
on a similar occasion. A messenger of
humble rank, in mean dress, and of travel-worn
aspect, was seen standing at the bottom
of the hall under the draped-back hangings.
And there seemed likely to be a somewhat
lively scene, as guards and revellers were talking
of cutting him in pieces. When the Sultan
rose in his outraged dignity, and claiming
the rights of death or torture as a privilege
of the Crown, commanded that the intruder
should be brought before him. No sooner
said than done ; it seemed to be precisely
what the messenger desired, for he carried
himself with a strange fearlessness. He prostrated
himself at the feet of the Sultan with
every demonstration of respect, but he kept

his eyes fixed on the white chief who sat by
the Sultan's side. And to that .white chief,
after sundry phrases and explanations, was
delivered the packet he drew from the bosom
of his dress.

Notwithstanding the spread of cheap telegraphy,
we have all experienced that it is
nervous work opening telegrams under certain
circumstances ; and even letters delivered
unexpectedly may be pregnant with acute
anxiety. Moray was a strong man, but he
was the fondest of fond fathers. The fears he
had striven to lull to rest woke up simultaneously,
like a nest of vipers suddenly laid bare
to the sunshine. It was with trembling fingers
he vainly tried to steady that he tore the
packet open, sent by express from Sangaa. It
was strange, too, in the circumstances, to read
'' Glenconan, Loss-shire, N.B.," emblazoned on
the pages. Grace had brought a supply of
her wire-wove, cream-laid note-paper along
with her. And as he read, his hands trembled
more and more, and a mist came gathering
over his eyes, though not before he had
mastered the meaning of the contents. Then
he called the hard training of a lifetime to his

help, and with a mighty effort he mastered
himself. Everything now depended — and
how much it was ! — on coolness, energy, and
unflinching resolution. He laid the case before
the Sultan, stating the facts concisely. The
potentate was already willing to assist him,
and he could hardly have been spoken to in a
more happy hour. He was delighted to give
a proof of the authority he had re-established
by an appeal to the warriors assembled around
him. As for Moray, under the pressure of the
crisis, of course he cast all his scruples to the
winds. He would carry a sufficient force along
with him, and those who had provoked the
onslaught must stand the consequences.

It was the Sultan of Sarambang in person
who made the appeal to his martial following.
The white chief of Sangaa was to put to sea on
a war expedition ; who would volunteer to
form part of his fleet ? The hostile tribes
from the eastward were threatening a descent
on Sarambang territory : there was glory to
be won, there might be booty to be regained ;
unquestionably there was a deal of fighting
to be done. Even in the cool, or rather the
tropical heat of the morning, the appeal would

have been received with enthusiasm. Now,
the enthusiasm rose to frenzy, and the hall
rang with acclamations. The scene might
have reminded one of the preaching of a
Christian crusade to fighting fanatics of the
dark ages ; of the gathering in some Highland
chieftain's hall, before the circuit of the fiery
cross and the clansmen taking the field. The
Highland heart of Moray warmed to these
wild tribesmen, and the warlike spirit of his
forefathers blazed up in his breast. He struck
the iron while it was hot ; he spoke to them ;
they understood his gestures, if not his words ;
and he had only to pick and choose among
the company. In making his choice he was
helped by circumstances. He would put to
sea as soon after daybreak as possible ; and
only those whose prius were in readiness
could go. The others who cared to come
might follow at their leisure ; and, in fact, it
would be a case of " devil take the hindmost."
But as the Malay States have no Boards
of Admiralty, seaworthy fleets may be despatched
with startling rapidity. The prius
were lying moored ofi" the shore, or dragged
high and dry on the beach; the men, who

were scattered through the town, had only to
be wakened from their slumbers ; the arms of
each amphibious warrior were ready to his
hand ; and as for sea-stores, some provisions
were pitched into the boats, and for the rest,
the crews were ready to trust to their Providence
or the prospects of pillage. Through
the short hours of the darkness that remained,
lights were seen flitting about in every direction
; to the spectator looking down upon the
place from the crests of the hills in the background,
it might have seemed to be invaded
by a plague of fire-flies. When the sunrise
was breaking over the sea in a blaze of golden
and crimson splendour, it gilded the swelling
sails of a gallant fleet, standing to the westward
before favouring breezes.

For four-and-twenty hours all went well ;
already, stretching across a width of bay to a
long projecting promontory, they had opened
the amphitheatre of volcanic mountains that
embraces the delta of the Sangaa. Spite of
his self-command, Moray's heart had been
beating more and more violently, with quick
alternations of hopes and fears ; yet he felt
that, with so much in his favour as yet, he

had every reason to be hopeful, — when all
at once, the aspect of the weather changed ;
the favouring breezes fell and died away —
the sultry air became intolerably oppressive.
He saw the old pilot casting anxious glances
towards the east, where heavy banks of cloud
were darkening the horizon. The order was
given to furl the flapping sails ; and the men,
settling down to the sweeps, still made steady
progress. But the storm we have seen bursting
over Sangaa was gathering fast ; and it
is one thing to look at these tropical terrors
from a bungalow, but quite another to face
them on the open sea. The storm broke ;
but the seamen cared little for the peals of
the thunder, nor yet for the fierce flashes
of the lightning. They had more immediate
cause for anxiety in the fitful gusts of the
winds, broken loose upon them from three
points of the compass ; sinking as suddenly
as they rose, and coming in a capricious
succession of surprises. Away to their right
was a sea, beginning to be lashed into raging
surf, and to break in boiling billows.
To the left were the perilous shallows, along
a coast that was fringed with a jungle of

VOL. III. M

impervious mangrove. And superstition came
to heighten the horrors of the scene. In the
darkening of what ought to have been broad
day, there was a ghastly illumination of the
crests of the breakers ; and lurid flashes of
fitful light seemed to rise out of the depths
of the ocean. Balls of spectral fires, bred
out of the ever-thickening darkness, gathered
at the ends of the tapering yards and on
the tips of the swaying masts. The rowers
still bent to the sweeps ; but the cadence of
their chants died away, as their pulling became
listless and irregular.

Then, when they were half paralysed by
superstitious apprehension, came the wild
stress of the cyclone. In five short minutes
the fleet was scattered; each prahu
whirled round by the irresistible blast in its
own turmoil of mad wind and seething water.
The cyclone swept onwards swiftly as it had
come ; two or three stout craft had gone
to the bottom, though, as all the Malays
swim like ducks, most of the men had been
picked up by other boats. Some of the
prius were scudding out to sea, like frightened
and crippled sea-birds that had lost

their heads ; while others, following more
dangerous instincts, had headed for the shallows,
to beach themselves on any terms.
Several still stuck to the commander-in-chief,
though rather by chance than from any settled
determination.

As for Moray, his heart had sunk, with
what would have been the fall in the barometer,
had his back carried such an instrument
; but it was only because he feared
that the storms in their courses were fighting
against the salvation of his child. His
heart had sunk, but his courage rose ; and
men who sought to read their fate in his
face became reassured by his undaunted and
impassible demeanour. The cyclone had passed,
but it was still blowing half a gale, and a
surf, lashed up into fury, was raging and rolling
towards a lee shore. Moray's prahu, still
keeping the lead, had resumed its course,
and held it like grim death. Food and drink
had been served out to the drenched rowers,
and the native officers, unwilling to show
less courage than the white chief, had encouraged
the crew by words and example.
There is no braver race than that of these

Malays of Sumatra : no men are more indifferent
to death. Nor has the world seen
any more daring seamen since the Vikings
of the north settled down and became civilised.
So the shattered relics of the scattered flotilla
were still holding on in their course for Sangaa.
But the wind had changed with the cyclone,
and was setting steadily in their faces. Even
by dint of desperate pulling they made but
slow way, and many a weary hour had dragged
by ere they cleared the last of the headlands
and sighted the embouchure of the Sangaa
Ever. The seething bar was not the only
obstacle they saw before them ; and indeed,
as the bar had been protected from the prevailing
wind, it was less angry than might
have been expected. The only thing that
Moray did see, after the first glance, was a
fleet of prius advancing pleasantly from the
opposite direction. Then the pirates were a
reality : they had drifted apparently in place
of being driven ; and, in any case, they numbered
at least three times his force, and so
effectually sealed the entrance to the Sangaa.
Had a weaker man found himself in a similar
situation, he would have appealed to the headlong

courage of his followers, and endeavoured
to force a passage at all hazards. Moray-weighed
the circumstances, and acknowledged
that the attempt would be desperate. The
best thing that could be done was to take
counsel deliberately, and he had an admirable
counsellor at his elbow. He signalled to Pan-aran
Jaffir, who was following in his wake,
and in another moment that chief was alongside.
All the Malay's hereditary animosities
were roused by the sight of feudal enemies
who must have ravaged his territory frequently
before. But being a veteran warrior, eager ashe
was to strike them, he preferred to make
sure before he struck. Knowing the "lie of
the land," and having grasped the situation,
he had a plan of operations cut and dried.
He had people with him who knew a path
used by the crews of fishing-boats, which led
to a village in the jungle. From that village
there were woodland paths, which debouched
upon Sangaa in the vicinity of the Residency ;
and by following them, if Moray did not anticipate
the pirates, at all events he might
hope to deliver the attack before they had
done any great mischief.

The plan was no sooner suggested than decided
upon. Moray's little squadron ostentatiously
backed water and beat a retreat, to
the great glorification of the enemy, who had
been observing them. As they drew back
behind cover of the headland, they heard the
clamour of shouts and of drums beaten in
triumph. " He laughs best who laughs last,"
soliloquised Moray grimly, as, full of fears and
hopes, he pressed forward the disembarkation.

There were others who were watching the
approach of the piratical fleet with interest
nearly as intense. The barbarous levies that
beset the settlement welcomed the approach of
their ferocious allies ; while Matusin was in
presence of an onslaught he could hardly hope
to withstand. He had marked, too, the advance
of the prius from the opposite direction,
and when he saw them withdraw, he had
been more disheartened than surprised. It
would have been nothing less than madness
to face the force opposed to them. All the
same, in bitterness of spirit, and in an interview
which Grace had sought with him, he
had said something of broken pledges and of
the Eesident failing them at need. Then

Grace had flashed out, and seldom had an outbreak
of temper been better timed.

My father is with these men ; and he will
either die or cut his way to us. If he could
turn his back on his only daughter, he would
never fail the followers who look to him for
support."

I do not pretend to say that even the quick-witted
Malay could follow Miss Moray's exact
words. But even better than by the translation
attempted by her handmaiden, it was
emphasised by the girl's eyes and indignant
attitude. He knew he was being pushed hard
to the wall ; he was determined to sell his life
dearly if he must part with it ; and he turned
to the chiefs and the head-men who surrounded
him. He told them that the white
leader was at hand, and coming to their help ;
his daughter, who was in mysterious communication
with her father, knew it; and if
they set manfully about the defence, they
might make sure of a speedy deliverance. In
fact, his address was a free reading of the
maxim, that the gods help those who help
themselves ; and he spoke to men who held
their lives so cheaply, that with that superstitious

encouragement they became positively
reckless. The strategy of the Malays was
simple enough. They must fall back on the
defence of the town, and make good the
stockades. Matusin would gladly have met
the assailing flotilla in the river ; but with
his weakened forces and the few prius at
his disposal, that was altogether out of the
question.

As with the war of the elements the day
before, there was a lull and a breathing-time
before the storm burst. The pirates probably
spent it in communicating with their friends
on shore, and combining some plan of operations
that might carry the defences with a
rush. As for the defenders, they had been
dismissed to their posts, where they seemed
likely to be awkwardly embarrassed by the
frightened women who clung to them.

At the Residency, if there was extreme excitement,
there was comparative calm. There
were Malay guards, but the gates had been
closed against intruders ; and the few Europeans
ha no families to care for them. Then
Grace, rising to the emergency, had been here,
there, and everywhere. If there were cowards

within the precincts, it was difficult to show
timidity before the beautiful young woman so
heroically serene. A Jeanne d'Arc, whether
medieval or modern, is a mighty influence in
circumstances of the kind ; and if Grace was
carrying herself so resolutely in public, it was
because she had risen from her knees only
the moment before.

Mr Eafl*erty was likewise religious after his
fashion, but he only crossed himself and invoked
the saints, in such appalling circumstances
as the storm. Now, in his anxiety for
the big fight to begin, he was restless, like the
sea-birds before a hurricane. He was ready
to talk to anybody who would listen, and
vague fancies of scientific warfare were floating
in his excited brain. So he joined Miss
Moray, who had gone up to her watch-tower,
and was looking wistfully down the river at
the blockading war-boats.

''Thim pirates are taking it remarkably
aise. Miss; bad luck to them," remarked Mr
Eafl'erty, respectfully, by way of opening the
conversation. " It's a pity but we could send
thin down a few fire-ships or some half-dozen
of tornadoes by way of an agreeable surprise."

Grace started : the idea seemed a good one :
the difficulty was the impossibility of realising
it, and half unconsciously she shook her head.

Of course it's out of the question," continued
Mr Kafferty, in answer ; " for Mathew
and his benighted savages have none of
the materials at hand. But civil a one of me
would ask better sport than to see the boats
in a blaze, and the beggars on board of thin
swimming for their lives."

There were no torpedoes, it was true : there
were neither the men nor the materials for a
despatch of fire-boats ; yet, looking at the
situation not in the light of sport, but very
seriously, it struck Grace that there might be
something in Eafferty's notion. With searching
glances she embraced the scene before her
eyes, and then she commanded Kafferty to
guide her to Matusin. The restless Irishman
asked nothing better ; and, though mortally
curious, he had the discretion to ask no questions.
Grace at that moment had something
of her father's look when at his sternest ; her
knitted eyebrows and her compressed lips repressed
all familiarity, and forwardness stood
abashed before dignity.

If the Malay chief was in any way put outby
the English girl's proposal, it was only that
it had not occurred to himself, being so entirely
in accordance with the traditions of
Malay bush-fighting.

'' The day is drawing on," Grace had begun,
looking upwards towards the sloping sun ;
your enemies will scarcely attack you before
morning."

The Malay would not commit himself, but
seemed inclined to agree. Then Grace broached
a scheme, which Eafi'erty's crude idea had
suggested. The pirates had brought up at a
point where the estuary was closing rapidly
into the deep, narrow channel of the river.
Their boats had let down their anchors or
lashed themselves to trees on the banks ; one
way or another, in their overweening confidence,
they were crowded, hampered, and
careless. On either side of the river stretched
the forest, with the dense undergrowth dried
up into tinder after the prolonged drought, for
the sultriness and the sunshine had already
licked up the deluge that had fallen the day
before. And the wind, if it came in gusts,
was still setting steadily from the eastward.

Why," said Grace, " should you not wait
for the dusk, and then set a light to the
jungle ? If the fire does nothing else, it will
delay the attack, and the hours we gain are
everything, when my father and his people
are outside there."

Matusin being half a savage, and having
life and property at stake, swallowed down
any feelings of petty jealousy. Gallantly he
sank on one knee to kiss the hand of the fair
counsellor, and then begged permission to
withdraw to make the arrangements for the
conflagration. And when Grace had thanked
Eafi'erty for the idea she had utilised, the
Irishman only asked, by way of recompense,
that the young lady would 'hurry back to
the Residency, and lave him free to go with
the niggers, and superintend."

If the pirates kept watch and ward at all,
it was on the side of the settlement they were
threatening. But, in fact, there was little
discipline or order, and each man did as seemed
right in his own eyes. In short, they had
sold the hide of the bear they meant to hunt
and kill on the morrow. Some were feasting,
singing, and carousing ; others were sleeping

the sleep of the oblivious, through a din that
might have wakened the Seven Sleepers. On
some boats the fires were blazing up, or had
smouldered down among cinders in the braziers;
in others, the fires had gone out altogether.
Here there would be a patch of blinding glare ;
here the moonshine was softly silvering the
water ; and there there was utter darkness,
beneath the black shadows of the trees.

Had there been watchers placed in the stillness
of the night, the first warning would have
been in the shape of a faint crackling. As it
was, thanks to the noise, no one lent an ear to
that admonition ; while, owing to the mingled
glare of the fires with the moonshine, that
partially illuminated the fleet, no one detected
a sporadic glimmering among the trees, like
the lights of some scores of gigantic glowworms.
But the fires had been kindled close
at hand and in many places, and they spread
and blazed up with marvellous rapidity. One
minute the fleet was either mad with revelry
or sunk in slumber ; the next, each soul onboard
was on foot, and face to face with an
appalling catastrophe. The flames that were
roaring up the great stems of the trees, finding

fuel in the luxuriant growth of the creepers,
were leaping from branch to branch overhead,
and darkening the skies above the glare
with the smoke from an infernal illumination.
The flames twisted themselves serpent-like
round each pendant festoon and drooping
withe till they sputtered and went out in
the current of the river that rippled in
streams of blood, as it ran by in the crimson
glow. And through the red blaze and the
rising roar came the shrill shrieks of the monkeys
and other miserable animals being consumed
— had anybody had ears to hear them.
Had Matusin been a born leader instead of
being merely a quick-witted warrior, he would
have contrived an attack on the fleet for that
moment, and turned the panic into an overwhelming
disaster. But having failed to contemplate
probabilities, or to count the chances,
he was only looking on from a distance, rubbing
his hands, and congratulating himself.
Nor did he even take the necessary precautions
to regulate the course of the flames he
had kindled.

The pirates, horror-stricken and taken by
surprise, were left to save themselves as they

could. In the instincts of self-preservation,
there was no lack of activity. Lithe figures,
stripped nearly to the skin, were observed
bounding about in the reflections of the fires,
dragging at anchors or hauling at ropes.
Prahu after prahu was seen to push out from
the ruck," the crews getting to the sweeps,
as they floated themselves clear on the current.
One or two of the boats were abandoned,
that had been lashed too securely to
the blazing trees. But on the whole, the
assailing squadron had been rather frightened
than hurt. Not a few of the craft showed like
moths that had singed their wings at a candle.
Not a few of the crews were burned, as a very
great many were scorched. But as the men of
all these amphibious fighting races can swim
like sharks, no one perished in the water who
had not been crippled by the fire. And so
the scared and scattered fleet assembled and
came to anchor again, in a little bay immediately
within the bar.

Matusin had scored the trick and might
have won the game, had he boldly played
out his trumps. As it was, he left his discomfited
adversaries free to take their revenge

; and when they sent their scouts out
to reconnoitre, they found that the fire had
been by no means an unmixed misfortune to
them. Matusin had kindled his firebrands ina
sense of absolute security. A broad belt of
thin orchards and cultivated ground separated
the dense jungle from the settlement. He
had, perhaps, forgotten the fringe of trees
that ran along the bank of the river ; but
that fringe, feeding the fires, had conducted
them along to the stockades. A breadth of a
score of yards or more had been consumed,
or charred ; and the scouts, slipping back to
the chiefs who sent them, had reported a
practicable breach. As for the garrison, in
their intoxication over the discomfiture of
their enemies, they thought of nothing in the
meantime but rejoicing and congratulations.
They knew that the watchful assailants in the
bush would be in consternation at the disaster
to their allies.

When they least expected it, they had a
disagreeable awakening. The enemy they believed
to be demoralised was seen coming up
the river again, with all the impulsion of
double-banked sets of oars, smarting: from recent

fright and bodily injuries, and animated
by the assurance of a speedy revenge. While
the leading prius swept up the river, facing
the desultory fire of the field-pieces in the
works, a body of warriors, flung quickly
ashore, hurled themselves forward on the
enfeebled stockades. The charred stakes were
shivered before their rush like pasteboard ;
the defenders fell at their posts, or sought
safety in flight ; the allies in the woods, with
answering yells, came swarming over the
palisades ; and before any serious resistance
was even begun, the settlement had been
virtually carried. The rush on the Residency
from the river-side was irresistible. There,
again, the Malays on guard were either
speared or cut to pieces or scattered. The
terrible arises made deadly play. The few
Europeans, according to their temperaments,
either resisted or cried for quarter : not that
it made much difference how they behaved,
since the brave man and the coward met a
common fate. Poor Eaff'erty, who had scented
the battle from afar like Job's war-horse, was
naturally one of the first to be knocked upon
the head ; and as for the lady for whom he

VOL. III. N

would have given his life, her fate, although
she was merely a prisoner, seemed hardly
preferable to his. Swooning and in despair,
now that the worst had come, just as she
had been giving heartfelt thanks for an almost
miraculous deliverance, Grace was carried
in the arms of triumphant barbarians onboard
the galley of the piratical leader.

Chapter XL.

THE SACK OF Sang.

Moray's idea was naturally to get his little
forces together and go straight to the rescue
of his daughter. But Pangaran Jaffir opposed
plausible arguments and a passive resistance
not to be overcome. He urged that as yet
they were so few in number, the venture must
be doubtful or even desperate, considering
that, before they reached the settlement, they
might have to make a running fight of it
through the jungle. It was most unlikely
that the enemy would make the attack that
evening, and if they did risk it, they would
certainly be repulsed. Meantime they themselves
would be hourly gaining reinforcements
; for already several of the prius of
their scattered fleet could be seen coming up
behind. Finally, neither he nor any of his

people would undertake to guide the advance,
at the risk of going astray and being benighted.
The Malay, bold as a lion in daylight,
was by no means proof against the
terrors of the forest in the darkness, especially
after his superstition had been awakened in
the horrors of the recent storm.

Moray gnashed his teeth, but resigned himself.
There was truth, after all, in what the
Malay said, and he believed that Sangaa could
not be carried except after hard fighting. For
that evening, at least, it was surely safe, and
his relieving party on the morrow would have
manifold chances in its favour. So, lighting
their fires, the Sarambang men bivouacked on
a strip of shingly beach, where now and again
they welcomed the arrival of the stragglers.
There was no merriment or carousing, as onboard
of the hostile fleet : the men were
weary with the work, and far from being
in good spirits. Moray saw that even could
he have persuaded them to advance, he could
have hoped to accomplish little with such
followers.

He had lain down and tried hard to sleep.
He was weary like the others with the double

strain on mind and body, and he needed rest
for the morrow. But rest would not come at
his call. He turned and tossed, with the
flames of the watch-fires dancing before his
eyes, till the swarthy figures that from time to
time flitted across them seemed like so many
restless fiends to his distempered senses. He
felt gloomy forebodings he could too easily explain,
and it was scarcely a relief to rise and
pace the beach, looking out through the calm
silence of the night on the twinkling heavens
and the tossing sea. Naturally his eyes were
directed towards Sangaa, for there was the loadstone
that attracted his thoughts. When suddenly
he rubbed those aching eyes of his, and
stood g;azino^ with fixed attention. A faint,
ruddy gleam was streaking the sky above the
tops of the forest-trees. He fancied at first it
might be the flashing of sheet-lightning, but
it was too steady for that. It brightened, it
reddened, and quickly extended itself, till it
spanned the horizon in a fiery arch, quenching
those twinkling stars in its blaze, and darkening
with clouds of smoke the deep azure of
the heavens. It was the glare of a great conflagration,
hanging over the site of the settlement.

Assuredly Sangaa was being sacked,
and — his daughter ! — his daughter !

Moray was neither the man nor in the mood
to stand like Lord Ullin, wringing his hands
and lamenting. There was no waste of wild
water before him — only a broad belt of jungle,
with foot-tracks that were known to lead
through it. In a dozen of strides, or rather of
bounds, the old deerstalker was standing over
the Malay chief, shaking him by the shoulder.
One touch would have sufficed. In a second
Pangaran Jaffir was on his legs ; in a second
or two more, he had all his wits about him.
Moray had meant to command or to ]dress immediate
action. But there was no need. The
swarthy Malay, in spite of the hue of the skin,
sympathised with the white chieftain and
father. His chivalry was enlisted : his manhood
was in question ; and whether he had
reposed himself with an hour or two of sleep
or not, his superstitious tremors had been dissipated.
Father to forearm the friend of his
Sultan against casualties than for any other
reason, he warned or reminded him that it was
no easy matter to grope their way through
thick jungle in the darkness. The guides had

but vague recollections of the localities, which
might be beset by bands of ambushed warriors
familiar with them. But so much said, he
gave his orders peremptorily, and in ten minutes
the whole of the party was on foot, and
in readiness to follow their leaders. If there
were still fear or reluctance, the boldest did
not dare give a sign of it. Pangaran had a
hot temper and a heavy hand.

But "the more haste, the worse speed,"
is a time-honoured proverb that is very true;
and so Moray found to his cost. It was
tedious work and frightfully aggravating,
leading weary if not unwilling men through
a gloomy labyrinth of winding wood-tracks.
To be sure they were never going very far
wrong, for each false path soon ended in a
cul-de-sac. To be sure they could steer their
course by the conflagration, which threw a
fixed beacon-light from the goal of the march,
whenever they came into low scrub or a
clearing. But reluctant and dispirited men
began to drag their limbs more and more
painfully ; and the spirits sank with the failing
flesh. The self-possessed Moray was
wellnigh maddened. Suspense was being

strained, till it became almost intolerable ;
he felt inclined to cast himself down under
a bush in despair, like the Israelitish prophet
in the wilderness ; and yet, for the life and
honour of his daughter, he dare not breakdown.
All depended on his keeping up his
courage ; the tremblers who followed must
draw encouragement from him, if they were
to be ready to show themselves men with
the daybreak. His great comfort was in the
bearing of Pangaran Jaffir. That veteran
warrior stepped out like a lad ; he had entirely
recovered his shaken nerve, and showed
the counsel in moments of difficulty of a
bush-fighter of ripe experience. And in
strange contrast to his domineering demeanour
to his men, he won Moray's most cordial
gratitude by silent but eloquent expressions
of sympathy. More than once in the darkness
he clasped the Scotchman's hand, or laid
a light touch of cheerful consolation on his
shoulder. It might have seemed matter of
thankfulness that they had no fighting to
face : a sudden attack upon their files in .
the dark must have begun with a panic
and ended in a massacre. But that Moray

took for a melancholy sign, and as they still
groped their way unopposed, his heart felt
heavier and heavier. They surprised a forest-hamlet
with its women and children, but
they neither cared nor needed to stop and
ask questions. The men must have gone
forward to the sack of Sangaa, where the
vultures of the woods were gathering to the
carnage.

The more haste, the worse speed ; and the
sun had already risen over the opposite trees
before they saw the glimmerings of daylight
through the thinning skirts of the jungle.
Father as he was, Moray had enough of the
sage and the soldier in him to consent to
call a halt to dress the column, while scouts
were sent creeping forward. The scouts came
back with the astounding report that there
were no signs of a fire in the settlement.
They had gone no farther than the stockades
behind the Kesidency. The defences were
apparently without defenders ; but the roof
and walls of the Residency and other houses
seemed intact.

Tossed about with violent revulsion of feeling,
now hoping and now despairing, the cool

Glenconan was no longer to be restrained.
Like one of his young Highland deer-hounds
slipped on the slot of the wounded deer, he
would have flung; himself on the horns of a
stag at bay. Pangaran Jaffir did not attempt
to hold him back ; indeed his old blood and
his warlike ardour were already both at the
boiling-point. The men now quickly rallied
and mustered in loose order beneath the open
fringe of the forest : there was a rush, in which
they took the stockades in their stride ; they
crossed the enclosures of the Residency at a
run, with its master still well to the front,
and they burst through its unprotected windows
and doors, some of them swarming up
the pillars of the verandahs.

Hangings had been torn down and the furniture
wrecked. Lighter articles of any value
had been swept away, with a cleanness and
celerity that would have done honour to the
myrmidons of a London cheap broker. The
storm had passed everywhere and shattered
everything ; and on the other side of the
house, where resistance had been made, corpses
were strewed over the lawn and through the
flowers.

The distracted father searched everywhere ;
he hunted hiorh and low, and all in vain.
Grace's little sitting-room and her bedroom
had been rudely violated like the rest ; only
from under a fallen mosquito-net crawled poor
Finette, piteously moaning, and badly wounded
by the thrust of a Malay iris. It was touching
to see the poor dog cheer up at the sight
of her master ; drag herself along the floor to
his feet, and cover his hands with her caresses.
And Moray was touched : it was no shame to
his manhood that he caught her up in his arms,
and covered her with his kisses. But unhappily
the dog, which did all but speak, could
tell him nothing of her mistress. So he set
her gently down again, dropped from the window
on to the ground, and hurried after his
followers into the gardens to pursue his investigations.


A shout drew him away to a clump of shrubbery.
As chance would have it, it was the
very thicket where Eaff*erty had ensconced himself
on the eventful evening when he sought
his interview with Grace. And there lay poor
Mr Eaff'erty again, but on this occasion quite
unable to bestir himself. Indeed, as he said

subsequently, it was only by a miracle, and
by virtue of the blessed crucifix he always
wore next to his skin, that the life of the
hard-fighting Irishman had been spared. Be
that as it may, he had simply been " kilt,"
in other words, he had merely had his head
broken, — with a chance wound in the chest,
"that counted little one way or the other," —
and then had been tumbled into the thicket.
Now, being picked up by " thin friendly niggers,"
he dragged himself on to one elbow and
tried to " spake." But it was not till the sight
of the Eesident made it worth while, that he
strove to string some articulate sentences together
; nor did he succeed in making himself
intelligible till after an internal application of
spirits. Impatient as he was, Moray had held
back his flask ; arrack seemed hardly to be the
thing for a wounded European in the circumstances.
But Rafi"erty made an effort, seized
it, swallowed, and delivered himself —

Sure it's the finest medicine in the world,
and it goes down like mother's milk. For
now," he added, recalling his temperance
pledge with a dreamy sigh, " I'm free from
my promise." Then remembering what had

passed, in his weakness he fairly broke down.
At last Moray did prevail on him to speak,
though the thought of the pain he was involuntarily
inflicting nearly gave the warmhearted
Irishman a relapse. The house had
been taken from the other side when he was
making a fight of it in the verandah looking
seaward. The last thing he had seen of Miss
Grace, she was being carried to the river in
the arms of a big barbarian. He had made a
dash to the rescue, "but they were too many
for me — bad luck to them. They knocked me
flat on my back here, and I saw no more till
ye wakened me. But you'll be going after
her, sir, and you'll take me with you," added
Mr Eafi'erty. " You can lay me down in the
bottom of one of the boats till I'm wanted ;
and anyhow, when the fighting begins, you
may trust Jack Eafi*erty to come up to time."

Mr Rafierty's request, mad as it was, served
the purpose of rousing Moray from his stupefaction.
His child was gone ; the settlement
was seemingly evacuated by the enemy ;
whatever the chances, there was nothing for
it but to take up the chase, without unnecessarily
losing one moment. But it was his

destiny in those two dismal days to have his
patience strained almost beyond the endurable.
This man, who had prided himself upon cool
self-control, was perpetually breaking his teeth
against obstacles nearly insurmountable. Ma-turin
was dead or had disappeared, and the
survivors of the garrison had vanished with
him. As for the followers of Pangaran Jaffir,
they had scattered themselves about through
the town in search of any stray articles to
plunder ; and the boats they were accustomed
to man were left in the bay beyond the forest.
Before he could lay hands on Pangaran, before
that chief could get the body of his people
together again, much invaluable time had been
wasted. Even then, with the scratch crews of
strangers assembled round the Sangaa prius,
it was hard work getting a flotilla to sea.
The Sarambang people objected to being taken
away from the joys of pillaging, and they
knew, besides, that they were terribly overmatched,
should the enemy be inclined to
shorten sail and offer battle. Even Pansfaran
and not unnaturally in the circumstances —
gave the order for embarkation much against
his will. His common-sense told him that if

he were not going to sea on a wild-goose chase,
he was staking life and reputation against
desperate odds. Hours had gone by before
the boats were hastily supplied with some
provisions and water ; and if the start was
effected at last, Moray saw only too plainly
that it was because the crews were encouraged
by the thought that a stern chase is a long
chase, especially when the chased is the
stronger, and has practically unlimited law.

CHAPTER XLL

THE RESCUE.

We left Ealpli Leslie at Penang, in a reaction
of anxieties after this first relief. It was no
easy matter the getting a cast on board ship
to the Sumatra coast, and even chartering a
craft on his own account was more than a
question of time and money. The mongrel
skippers in these seas had a wholesome dread
of a neighbourhood where pirates were wont to
be as common as lighthouses are rare. The
Sir Stamford Scraper ' was still under repair,
and the master declined the responsibility of
doing more than detaching a veteran of the
crew to accompany Mr Leslie as pilot. It really
seemed that he was likely to be indefinitely
leg-bound, in which case he must have fretted
himself ofi" with a fever or a liver complaint —
when fortune very seasonably befriended him.

H.M.S. Severn, a big composite gun-vessel,
carrying four heavy breech-loading guns, with
a couple of Gardner machine-guns to boot,
was signalled, and soon steamed into the
port. Naturally the captain was invited to
dine at Government House, and there Leslie
met him. It immediately occurred to our
friend that all his ends would be more than
answered if he could only take the Severn to
Sangaa. He had spoken on the subject to the
Governor, who doubted whether the business
could be managed, but was very willing to
help it forward. But when they broached
the affair to Captain MacDonald after the
claret had been circulating, he made no difficulties
; quite the contrary. As it chanced,
he had met Moray and his daughter in
London ; a Celt himself, his heart warmed
to a Highlander in difficulties, and, like the
Malay chiefs, his chivalry was enlisted on
behalf of a fair maiden in distress. He was
a strong-willed officer besides, with influence
at the Admiralty ; and moreover, he fancied
the idea of a flying trip to Sumatra, with an
off-chance of a little fighting thrown in.

Sumatra lies beyond my roving commis-vol.

III. o

sion," he said, " and I cannot act without
definite orders. The admiral on the station
is at sea with the squadron — Heaven only
knows where ! — and I can't communicate with
him. But I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll send
a telegram off to the Admiralty, asking leave
and pleading urgency. I don't doubt I shall
get leave ; but to make matters doubly sure,
perhaps the Governor will back me up with
the Foreign Office."

The Governor was agreeable, and Leslie
said, moreover, that Moray had a nephew,
an active M.P., who would undertake to focus
the influence of the President of the Council
on the affair.

Then I think we may consider it as good
as settled," exclaimed the gallant skipper, rubbing
his hands. " I shall be ready to heave
up the anchor at a moment's notice, and, Mr
Leslie, you had better bring your traps onboard."


So, to cut the story short, the three telegrams
were despatched ; the answers were
altogether satisfactory, and the Severn spread
her canvas to a favouring breeze, while the
stokers and auxiliary screw lent a second set

of wings to her flight. She had sighted the
volcanic peaks behind Sangaa, looming like
light-grey clouds on the southern horizon.
Gradually the forests had been seen, rising
slowly out of the sea ; and then they could
distinguish through the glasses the verdant
patches of clearing on the slopes behind
the black shore-belt of the mangroves. It
struck them as singular that there was something
looking like a haze of smoke just where,
according to the charts, should be the mouth
of the Sangaa river.

It seems as if they had been burning
forest," remarked Captain MacDonald, passing
the telescope to his first lieutenant.

It's a forest-fire, and a big one too, sure
enough, sir," returned that officer, after a long
steady gaze. " Strange that they should be
burning forest, too, and to that extent, and at
this time, if that be the river that leads to the
settlement."

Leslie, who was standing at the captain's
elbow, took the alarm at once. In the excitement
of his approach to the girl he loved so
dearly, his apprehensions were ready to forebode
the worst. Yet he dropped the glass

he had seized, as a hail came down from the
cross trees.

A fleet of boats standing eastward under
the shore, three points away on the lee bow."

In a minute or so Leslie, with much resolution,
though with little grace or dexterity, had
accomplished his first ascent on board ship,
and was holding on somehow to the stays by
the side of the look-out man in the main-top.
The captain, sympathising with the natural
anxiety of his friend and passenger, had put
his dignity in his pocket, and followed. Leslie,
by something like an intuition, had more
than a glimmering of the truth ; but the captain
shook his head when it was proposed that
he should overhaul those flying prius.

They may be from Sangaa, or they may be
on peaceful business ; and very possibly they
are. If we overhauled them, they would run
into shallow water ; and it would be more than
my commission is worth to attack them, without
knowing how the land lies. You are making
yourself needlessly uneasy, believe me, my
dear fellow ; and in any case, the only thing
to be done is to drive hard ahead and communicate
with the settlement. Then, if we

find that those gentry ought to be overhauled
for any reason, rely upon it I shall be alongside
of them in no time."

Ralph saw the reason of the thing, and was
forced to be content. Fresh fuel was heaped
on the furnaces ; and the Severn, bending
over, cut through the waves at a pace that
would have contented any one but a half-frenzied
lover.

But like the Hebrew watchman who saw
the swift messengers, the look-out man in the
Severn had his work cut out for him.

"A boat crossing the bar," was the next
announcement from on high ; " another " —
four "— " six "— '' thirteen."

A second flotilla," exclaimed the captain ;
"the plot thickens. But I shall speak those
latter gentry at any rate, Mr Leslie ; and in
fifty minutes or so at the outside, I hope your
mind may be set at rest."

This squadron at all events was friendly.
It made no attempt to escape her Majesty's
war-ship. On the contrary, one of the biggest
of the prius was rapidly rowed towards the
Severn ; and ere long, and standing out on
the lofty prow, Ralph distinguished the figure

of his uncle. A strange meeting in such circumstances,
in those tropical seas ! The ship
furled her upper canvas and reversed her engines
; the prahu was swept adroitly alongside,
and Moray, seizing the side-ropes, swung himself
up upon the deck.

Each fibre in his nerves was throbbing ; he
stood there like the high-mettled racer, among
the score of competitors eager for the start,
with self-control as a rider, reining him in.
He first grasped his nephew's hand, and exclaimed,
" The captain ? " Leslie, only too
ready to take the alarm, had no time to speak,
for Captain MacDonald stepped forward, courteous
but silent. He saw that seconds were
precious, and that it was for the Eesident at
Sangaa to speak. The father told his tale in
few words ; but before he had well finished,
the order had been given to change the course
of the Severn. Then there was leisure to
listen to a more detailed account of events,
as each yard of canvas that had been reefed
was spread again to the light breeze ; while
engineers and stokers, thrilling in sympathy,
were feeding the furnaces and poking the
fires. The fact had somehow speedily got

wind that the beautiful daughter of their
stout old countryman was being carried away
by those ruffianly Malays, who were melting
out of sight on the eastern horizon ; and each
British seaman felt a personal longing to bring
the rascally ravishers to book.

Captain MacDonald, when his own kindhearted
curiosity was satisfied, with the tact
and sympathy of a gentleman, left the uncle
and nephew to themselves. His delicacy, if
not misplaced, was needless. Their minds
were preoccupied with one terrible idea : they
said nothing that all the world might not have
heard. At all events, they might be pretty
easy upon one point : the Severn was swiftly
overhauling the flying squadron ; in a couple
of hours at the utmost she would have it under
her guns. What might happen then, Heaven
only could tell. Old Malay mariners, who had
come aboard with Moray, declared that all
along that coast the mangrove jungle was
impervious — that there was no possibility of
the enemy beaching their boats and beating
a retreat by land. But, on the other hand,
the sea shallowed so gradually — though they
did not profess to report accurate soundings

that it was very possible the piratical
squadron might keep beyond reach of the
corvette.

So it proved. The Severn cut off the retreat,
as it would have taken its natural course
round a jutting sand-spit : the Malay squadron
was baffled and embayed, but at the same
time it brought to in comparative safety.
Captain MacDonald, though in the habit of
acting for himself, called a war-council on his
quarter-deck under these critical circumstances.
Or rather, he consulted his two civilian passengers,
who had all that was most dear in
their lives at stake.

In other circumstances, I should cannonade
the scoundrels," said the captain, " and
then pipe away the boats' crews and send
them to attack under cover of the guns.
But "

For God's sake, don't use the guns. Captain
MacDonald ! " exclaimed the unfortunate
father. Then, recollecting himself, he added
with an efibrt, "And yet you must do your
duty."

They have sacked an English settlement,"
returned the captain, " and doubtless it is my

duty to attack at any cost, and to use all

available means. Well, it all, duty must

go to the wall for once. We must attack, I
suppose ; but whatever it may cost the ship's
company, I won't run the chance of harming
a hair of your daughter's head. We might
blockade them, to be sure, barring changes in
the weather, and possibly bring them to terms;
and yet I greatly doubt whether, under the
circumstances, anything would justify me in
letting them go free."

Moray hesitated for a moment ; then spoke
with determination, —

No British officer could do so ; and were
I weak enough and base enough to make such
a request to you, in your place I could only
refuse. But I know those Malays, and if you
reduce them to despair by blockading, with
the choice between surrender and starvation,
they are capable of devising any revenge on
their captives. There is but one thing to
be done, and we must leave the consequences
to a merciful God. If you are willing to send
your boats to the attack, get to work without
wasting a moment. And God knows how
bitterly I regret that, on our account, your

brave fellows should have to fight under any
disadvantage."

Chances of war and of the service, my
dear sir. I answer for them, that not a man
will waste a thought upon that. I am only
sorry that duty compels me to remain onboard,
and that I must hand over the honour
and the glory of the rescue to my first lieutenant."


His first lieutenant was far from sharing his
regrets. Scarcely had the boatswain's whistle
resounded along the decks, than the boats
were swinging from the davits, and balancing
themselves on the surface of the water. The
crews had tumbled over the sides, the men
had seized upon the oars, marines and supernumerary
blue-jackets had stowed themselves
away in their places, and ranging
rapidly in line, or rather in crescent of battle,
the little squadron swept swiftly towards the
shore.

The steam-launch led the way in the centre,
carrying Leslie, Moray, and some of his Malays
as passengers. The pirate flotilla, at
anchor in an irregular line, opened a heavy
though desultory fire as the English approached.

Showers of bullets from antiquated rifles and
muskets were mingled with flights of arrows.
Gongs were violently beaten, wild war-cries
resounded along the waves ; there was evidently
no thought of surrender. The fire,
although hot, was ill-directed, and comparatively
little damage was done. Nevertheless
Moray, though he still mastered himself with
mighty efforts of self-control, winced as if he
had been hit himself, when any of the blue-jackets
or marines were wounded. They might
have escaped had the corvette used her guns,
and so it seemed to him that he was personally
responsible for each of those casualties.
He only longed to be at close quarters with
the enemy ; but, in the meantime, his attention
and theirs was diverted. To his astonishment
and disgust, he saw Leslie, who the
moment before had been standing by his side,
crouching under the gunwale of the launch,
out of the way of danger. The sympathy of the
rough seamen had suddenly changed to contempt
; and now, indifferent to the bullets that
came thicker and flew straighter they were
passing their rough jokes on the land-lubber
whose nerves had fairly got the better of him.

At the sight of his nephew's cowardice, Moray
almost forgot his daughter's danger. He sprang
forward to lay a hand on Leslie's shoulder, and
shook him savagely.

By the God who made us ! I would rather
know Grace was dead, than give her to a man
who shows the white feather at "

He stopped short before the sentence was
finished. He scarcely knew his nephew's face,
distorted as it was by the intensity of suppressed
passion. No Malay among those who
kept his daughter a prisoner could have worn
an expression of more determined ferocity.
The gentle-mannered poet seemed transformed,
as, turning round sharply and fiercely, he saw
who had touched him, and said in hasty explanation
—

One of those stray bullets might hit me,
and rob me of the chance of rescue or
revenge."

And as Moray, excited and preoccupied ashe
was, shrank back at the unexpected display
of passion — Jack Enables, remembering what
had passed at the interview in London, might
have been less surprised — he recognised the
depth of the affection that was ready to die

under an indelible stain, rather than play the
rule of a looker-on in the hand-to-hand struggle
that was approaching.

There was little time for Leslie's limbs to
get cramped in the undignified position to
which he had resigned himself. The Malay
war-shouts were answered with ringing cheers;
the last volley from the enemy's firearms was
followed by some groans and a death-cry; and
in another moment the boats were grappling
themselves to the prius. Then seamen and
marines, who had reserved their fire, poured
in point-blank volleys with deadly effect, and
under cover of the confusion they were swarming
up the sides, with cutlasses and bayonets
flashing in the sunbeams. The lustre of the
English weapons was speedily dimmed, for the
Malays fought gallantly and desperately. But
their irregular ferocity was in vain against the
British dash and the British discipline. The
fight was bloody, but it was soon over ; the
prius that had been directly attacked were
carried, the defenders being either cut down
at their posts or throwing themselves into the
water and striking out for the others. And
when the flag of the pirate chief was hauled

down, and his galley was seen to be in the
hands of the white men, there was a general
sauve qui peut from the rest of the fleet.
Brave as the Malays were, they bowed to the
force of circumstances ; and they had a wholesome
terror of the guns of the big ship, which
had not as yet been brought into action. As
they could not save their boats, they tried to
save themselves ; and the glowing surface of
the sea was sparkling in a driving spray
of diamonds, where innumerable heads and
shoulders were seen striking out for the
shore.

The struggle had been brief, and no Englishman
hung back in it ; but Leslie had been
to the front in it from the first, among scores
of other brave men.

For heaven's sake, don't be so foolhardy,
Mr Leslie !" the first lieutenant had found time
to shout in an ear that was absolutely deaf to
the well-meant expostulation.

Heh, sir, div ye see hoo the devil
sects ! " ejaculated a countryman of his own,
complacently, as he paused to breathe himself,
and to wipe his brow, between the mighty
strokes he was laying on the Malays.

Indifferent alike to praise and prudence,
Leslie flung himself into the foremost of the
melee, forcing his way towards the barbarian
who seemed to be the leader. The barbaric
warrior was a powerful man, who might have
made one and a half of Miss Moray's lover.
He honoured his assailant with a downright
sword-cut, that should have " cleft him to the
chine," to borrow the language of the chroniclers
of the middle age, had not a sailor seasonably
interposed a cutlass, when the blow
glanced, merely bruising a shoulder, and ere
the Malay could recover his weapon, the poet
had run him through the body. How little he
thought, when he had been " mooning " and
dreaming at Glenconan, that he would ever
have so dramatic an opportunity of proving
his devotion to his lady !

But was the lady safe ? that was the next
question; and a question neither the father
nor the lover almost dared to ask. The Malays
cut down, driven overboard, or secured,
the next business was to search the boating
very difficult matter. There was only one
possible place of concealment in the half-decked
craft ; but the hatches were strong,

and lashed down with bamboo cordage. There
was a call for cutlasses to sever the cords, and
the very embarrassment of eager volunteers
delayed the business. As we cannot depict
the spasm of agonising expectation, as father
and lover burst from the sunshine into the
blackness of the little cabin, so we must drop
a veil over the scene that followed, when the
seamen, delicately surging back, dropped a
mat over the family reunion. Grace was there,
and Grace was safe ; quit from the horrors and
the fears and hopes of her last twenty-four
hours' experiences.

Her pluck does her some credit, does it
not ? " said Moray proudly, when he presented
her to Captain MacDonald above the gangway
of the Severn, as pale as she seemed calm, but
none the less pretty for her pallor. " Not
that there is much to choose between the two
in that respect," as he turned round seemingly
towards Leslie, who followed them.
Lucky dog I " was the gallant captain's inward
comment, as he received Miss Moray's
effusions of heart-felt gratitude, only regretting
that this prize of love had been already
appropriated by its salver. And "lucky dog!"

was the sentiment that in various language
was re-echoed by the ship's company, from
the wardroom officers to the powder-monkeys ;
and so closed that episode of nautical romance,
which will long be S23un in yarns round the
Severn's galley-fires.

VOL. Tt.

Chapter Xlii

Married IN HASTE.

The telegrams requesting the despatch of the
Severn to Sangaa had thrown Mr Enables
into extreme perturbation and excitement.
That bit of business off his hands, he was
doomed to the suspense he detested. Communications
between Sangaa and the Straits
were so precarious, that he might hear nothing
more for any number of weeks. Meantime
his friends might be massacred, and
he could do nothing to help them. That
last reflection was so much to the point,
that it might have reconciled a less impulsive
young gentleman to resignation and the
exercise of patience. But to the warmhearted
Jack such inaction was out of the
question; he felt that it was incumbent
upon him to be up and doing. So, silencing

the whispers of hard commonsense, and
having made up his mind on the subject,
he thought it would be a satisfaction to consult
some one. Acknowledging his weakness,
he did not care to turn either to Lord Wrekin
or to one of the Government Whips, or
even to his stanch friend and patron. Lord
Wrekin's brother. Of all people in the world,
he chose Miss Winstanley for his adviser ;
though, indeed, they had been in the habit
lately of laying their heads together on most
occasions.

Julia heard all he had to say ; but it struck
him she was somewhat less sympathetic than
usual. She objected very sensibly that he
could do no possible good, as he must reach
Sangaa long after everything had been settled.
As Jack could only plead sentiment for his
plan, he was less persuasive than usual ; but
we may suspect that Miss Winstanley attributed
his embarrassment to a different cause.

You see, Leslie saved my life," he wound
up. " I vowed and felt undying gratitude,
and I can't bear to think of his possibly
perishing, without my stirring a finger to
help him."

It seems to me you already discharged
great part of the debt, when you so generously
resigned the girl you were both in love with,"
said Miss Winstanley, drily. " Besides," she
repeated very pertinently, " though you well
know how grieved I should be were anything
to happen either to Grace or Mr Leslie, you
must feel that your going to Sumatra would
be worse than idle in the circumstances."

I fear that is true ; still going would
be a relief to my mind, and I should always
feel that at least I had acknowledged my
debt, which is the next best thing to being
able to discharge it. And after all, the
Severn may have been in time to save them ;
and think what a pleasure it would be to be
there to congratulate them on their escape.
Though, if Leslie got out in time for any
fighting, if he has not fallen in the engagement
it will be no fault of his. You may
take my word for that, Julia."

My name is Miss Winstanley, Mr Enables,
and no doubt it would be a pleasure
to console your cousin."

Hardly had the words been spoken, than
Julia was heartily ashamed of them, and

she saw, besides, to lier infinite confusion,
that she had betrayed herself. Jack looked
at her steadily, till her eyes sank beneath
his gaze; then he spoke very deliberately,
but with more diffidence than was usual with
him.

I might remind you. Miss Winstanley,"
and he laid an ironical emphasis on her name,
that it was you who confirmed me in my
good resolution of giving up my cousin when
I could not help it. The sacrifice was all
the easier, that I knew in my heart she had
never cared for me, — never cared for me,
that is to say, as she cared for Kalph Leslie.
And knowing that, though I shall never lose
my affection for her, I was long ago as
effectively cured of my passion as any man
need desire to be."

Jack watched the effect of his speech, and
saw the lady brightening through her blushes,
which turned suspicion into something like
assurance. "Shall I say something more,
now I am in course of confession? Shall I
tell you how another idol made that fancy
fade ? "

Jack was very near saying something of

those signs of jealousy he had detected, but
he discreetly checked himself. Then, as
Julia's silence carried conviction to his mind,
he recovered all his natural audacity, and,
like the Malays charging home upon Sangaa,
he went at the feeble defences with a rush.

"What is the use of beating about the
bushes ? You are far too quick not to have
understood my feelings long ago. I love
Grace Moray as a cousin ; but I would adore
you as a wife, if you will only say the word,
and give me the permission. Why did I
come to you now, in place of going to consult
with your father, but because I would have
you the mistress of my actions, as you have
long been the object of my thoughts —
Julia ! "

Still the young lady said nothing ; but this
time she did not object to the use of her
Christian name. So Jack stole an arm round
her waist, and drew her to his side, softly unresisting.
In his anxiety for the answer, no
doubt, he laid his cheek to hers. The answer,
when it did come, seemed quite satisfactory,
though it was merely, " And yet you mean to
leave me ? "

Not a bit of it," exclaimed Jack, in an
exuberance of spirits, seizing her in bis arms,
and cutting short any further speech by a
short and summary process. " Not a bit of
it," he went on, when he had time to take
breath. " You know I pride myself on my
inspirations, and I have a happy inspiration
now."

And what may that be ? " asked Julia,
blushingly rearranging her hair.

Simply that we should get married tomorrow
or next day, have our honeymoon onboard
the steamer, and make our wedding-trip
to Sumatra."

What nonsense ! " exclaimed Julia, very
naturally. She seemed now to take the
necessary preliminaries to a wedding-trip for
granted, and the marriage as merely a question
of time.

'nonsense, dearest ! not at all," exclaimed
Jack, briskly. Then he went on more seriously,
" I must start for Sumatra at once : my
feelings are not to be reasoned with ; and I
am sure you will not attempt it. I know that
my — I mean our — future peace depends on it.
But you like the Morays nearly as much as I

do, and why in the world should we not go
and see after them together ? I shall look on
our marriage as such a blessed omen, that I
begin to believe already we shall find them all
safe and sound. And what a place for our
honeymooning the Spice Islands will be !
While, if the worst should have happened, I
shall have you by my side : and Heaven only
knows how I should need your companionship
in that case."

"That might be a reason," sighed Julia,
softly. "If it were anyways possible," she
added, as a saving clause.

But when Jack and Julia did lay their
heads together, metaphorically and literally,
they were just the pair to overcome apparent
impossibilities. Mr Winstanley, though somewhat
surprised, was far from objecting to the
match ; and on second thoughts he rather
fancied the idea of carrying it through speedily
and unconventionally. It is to be feared
that his wife's first indignant protests rather
helped to overrule his hesitation ; and Julia
found means of managing her mother. Possibly
Mrs Winstanley may have thought —
although there she wronged her daughter —

that the young lady might have been persuaded
to elope, and she may have deemed
that a sensation was preferable to a scandal.
And if an immediate wedding were once decided
upon, as Julia pointed out, it must
necessarily be of the quietest, seeing that the
fate of so many of " dear Jack's " near relatives
was something more than uncertain. At all
events, it is a fact, and an incontestable proof
of the energy of Jack's character, though it
may seem to violate the credibilities of orthodox
fiction, that within a week the settlements
were signed, and Mr Enables and his bride
were before the altar. The father of the
bridegroom, with efficient " assistance," tied
the knot ; a couple of the bridegroom's sisters,
and as many of the bride's cousins, officiated as
bridesmaids; and though the wedding-breakfast
was a quiet and rather melancholy meal,
all things were done decently and in order.

"You are a very fortunate man, Mr Jack,
though it is I who tell you so," said Instantly.
" Had any one said that Julia would
sacrifice a trousseau, and consent to be smuggled
away in a hole - and - corner ceremony,
I should have set him down for a lunatic

Believe an old man of the world, that my girl
must be passionately in love with you, and
the ftiult will be yours if she does not make
you happy."

And, ajDTopos to happiness, the bride had
had a happy thought of her own, when the
bridegroom was bustling through the innumerable
preparations.

'' I have been thinking, dear, of a man we
might take out with us to Sangaa."

Well, as you please, darling," said Jack,
doubtfully. " I don't think any fellow we
could engage would be much use to us. We
can always pick up a native in the East — a
salamander, who would be suitable to the
climate."

I was thinking of a Scotchman, not a
salamander."

My dear Julia ! " — and there was already a
touch of marital authority in the ejaculation,
though Jack did gulp down the 'rare you
mad?" which was to follow.

The intonation did not escape the sensitive
ears of the lady ; but she only smiled, and
said, "Donald Eoss."

The very thing ! " exclaimed Jack, enthusiastically.

" By Jove, Julia ! what a head
what a heart you have ! I suppose you can
manage to square things with his master ; so
I shall despatch a telegram this very moment,
and we can send Mr Eoss his marching orders
by the evening's post. My word for it, he
will lose no time in getting ready."

Chapter Xlii

Married AT LEISURE.

The Severn, after a week passed at Sangaa,
had steamed back to Penang. For a week
the managing director had entertained the
saviour of his daughter with all the hospitality
of which the circumstances admitted.
It was little that the Residency had been
sacked and wrecked ; they pic nicked pleasantly
enough in the open. There were sad
casualties to deplore, though chiefly among
the natives ; but the dead had been burned
with their dwellings or buried out of sight.
The gallant captain of the Severn found
himself so comfortable, that had things
been different he might have extended his
stay. But he was sincerely smitten with
Miss Moray, who, although really grateful,
seemed to have only eyes and ears for Mr

Leslie ; so that Captain Macdonald deemed
it wise to remember the duty he owed to his
admiral. And thus it came about that in a
reasonably short space of time telegraphic
information was transmitted from the Straits
of the onslaught on the Settlement and the
punishment of the assailants. And when the
newly wedded pair arrived at Port Said, they
found news awaiting them which set their
minds at ease. Thenceforth the voyage was
to be really a pleasure-trip, and they might
give themselves over to rattra'per any time
they had lost in the way of billing and
cooing. Thenceforward Donald Eoss brightened
up from the gloom that had made him
almost a misanthrope ; and not only was he
always ready to have " a crack " about the
Highlands with Mr and Mrs Enables, or any
of the cabin passengers, but he contributed
greatly to the cheerfulness of the ship's company
forward. As for Jack, he was more and
more delighted with Julia in her new characters
of wife and constant companion, and
congratulated himself hourly on his greatest
stroke of good luck. As for Julia, she had
been softened by the sweetening influences

of the honeymoon, and hung upon her husband
with shy caresses in a spring bloom of
new-born graces; and as the days glided by
upon silken wings, they were both looking
forward with growing delight to the surprise
they were preparing for their friends in
Sangaa.

Grace will give me a warmer welcome
than on that memorable visit of mine to
Glenconan," said Julia; "all the more so
that I have effectually relieved her of those
most unwelcome attentions of yours, sir."

"Leslie will know, at least," said Jack,
disdainfully ignoring the insulting allusion,
that if I did not turn up in the hour of
their extremity, it was the power and not the
will that was wanting. And in thinking of
their lives being safe, we have almost forgotten
the salvage of their fortunes. Yet buta
few months ago, how glad my uncle would
have been to know that he might keep
Glenconan, though at the cost of the rest
of his fortune I Our budget of good news
will be the best of wedding - gifts for that
other marriage which ought to come off
immediately."

And on their arrival at Penang, Jack's
proverbial good luck still befriended them ;
for they would have felt the annoyances of an
indefinite delay almost as deeply as Leslie
had done. A commodious enough trader,
bound for Sarambang, was easily persuaded
to diverge by Sangaa ; and fruits and other sea
luxuries were shipped in profusion, that the
sail might be made as agreeable as possible to
the bride.

Had the colonists needed occupation in the
transports of their reunion and recovered
happiness, they had plenty of it in the meantime
at Sangaa. The Residency was to be
reconstructed — an easy matter, where bamboos
were as abundant as native labour.
Beggared families had to be relieved ; widows
were to be consoled and orphans to be cared
for ; and in these good works we need hardly
say that Grace and her lover went hand in
hand with the Eesident. Matusin had come
back, having saved himself narrowly after a
stubborn resistance ; and had been duly
praised for his gallantry by his chief, with
promises of rewards and advancement. Eaf-
forty had recovered, of course, and seemed

little the worse for that broken head of his,
which came so naturally to the Tipperary
man. And Mr Briggs had been rescued with
Grace, having been knocked over at his post
beside the fire-proof safe, and carried bound
hand and foot on board the piratical prahu.
It was the respectable Briggs, above all,
whom the Resident seemed most to delight
to honour, though perhaps he felt a warmer
personal regard for Mr Eafferty, who had so
devotedly attached himself to the fortunes of
his daughter. But in the case of Briggs, he
could appreciate the heroism, where a clerk-like
and conscientious sense of duty had
triumphed over the feeble flesh.

So, on the whole, that population of many
shades formed a happy and contented family :
for semi-savages get over calamities and even
bereavements, as severe flesh - wounds heal
quickly with the wild creatures of the jungles.
Especially as when in the present instance
there was a liberal application of plasters in
the shape of kindness and cash.

Yet, happily contented as they were, a sensation
is a sensation ; and there was general
excitement when, one day at dawn, a European

trader in the offing was seen signalling
for a boat and a pilot.

Had it been a fortnight later," said Moray,
it might have been our new furniture from
Penang : as it is, that is altogether out of the
question. If it were not that dignity forbids,
and that I have an appointment with Matusin
moreover, I would go down and see the skipper
disembark."

Dignity does not forbid me," said Leslie,
nor you either, for that matter, Miss Resident
: it won't be very hot for an hour or
two ; suppose you order your palanquin."

Grace was only too willing. She would
follow Leslie nowadays as Finette followed
her.

The palanquin was halted beneath a clump
of cocoa-palms ; Grace got out, and, guided
by her cousin, sought shade still further out
of the sun, where for a few minutes, as was
very much the fashion with them, they forgot
about the visitors and all the world besides.
It was the sound of voices, borne through the
still air, that roused them. A boat was pulling
swiftly towards the shore : the ship was
still lying off in the bay. Leslie negligently

VOL. III. Q

unslung a pair of race-glasses, and focussed
them on the boat. All at once he uttered a
tremendous ejaculation, and thrust the glasses
into his companion's hands. " Look there,
Grace ! — and then tell me if we are waking
or dreaming."

Grace looked, and gave a low cry of delight,
as if she doubted the evidence of her senses,
and yet was unwilling to awaken and be undeceived.
And Finette, roused from her slumber,
came whimpering to her mistress's side.

Well, what do you make of him ? " asked
her lover, smiling.

It cannot ; and yet it must be. And if
old Donald is in that boat off Sumatra, who
can the people be on board that ship ? "

Jack Yenables for one," answered Leslie,
confidently.

But Grace now had only eyes for the boat.
After all, as Leslie was delighted to remember,
all she held most dear was with her in Sangaa.
And what she saw was an apparition unprecedented
in these seas : the stalwart figure of
her dear old friend, in complete Celtic costume.
Hardly, perhaps, could Donald have
given a greater proof of his affection, than in

defying the climate and its plagues, that his
young mistress might be reminded of Glencora.
The broad Highland bonnet invited
sun-stroke, as the unguarded legs were irresistibly
tempting to the venomous swarms of
mosquitoes and sand-flies. Donald, in spite
of his overstrung feelings, slapped and suffered
and swore ; but his tormentors and sufferings
were all forgotten, when he saw " Miss Grace "
rushing down with outstretched hands to welcome
him. He almost fell and fawned at his
lady's feet, as Finette, with her joyful whines,
was leaping up and licking his face.

It was a merry dinner that night at the
Residency ; none the less so, perhaps, that
there was an under-current of deep and earnest
feeling. By way of fillip to its conviviality,
Jack had communicated the good news
of the unexpectedly favourable prospects of
the bank liquidation. According to all appearances,
the assets Campbell had placed at the
disposal of the liquidators had so far lightened
the obligations of the shareholders that there
was no probability of further calls. It was
possible, on the contrary, that there might bea
return of moneys. In any case, if Moray's

investments were swept away, he might leave
an unencumbered estate to his daughter. The
most sensitive conscience might consider any
early indiscretions as purged, and henceforward
he was a free, and should be a happy,
man.

It was a merry dinner, but a merrier ceremony
was soon to follow. Mrs Enables had
declared that, much as she was enchanted with
Sangaa, it was indispensable that they should
cut their visit short. And even the hospitable
Moray had little to say when she gave him
her reasons for the decision.

Jack would start at a moment's notice,
and I was foolish enough to consent to come
with him. But he has left everything at sixes
and sevens : his chief in the lurch — irritated
constituents — not that that greatly signifies
in the circumstances, — and speculations in the
charge of my father, whose ignorance of them
aggravates his responsibilities. No, my dear
Mr Moray, we must go back very soon ; otherwise
I should always blame myself for any
misfortunes that might happen."

Moray had nothing to object, and could
only consent rather ruefully.

But, before we go, I have a favour to ask,
and I fancy you know what I mean."

"Demande toujours."

As we have come so far for so little, seeing
we have found you all safe, we should wish
to have the wedding happily over."

The story of the fox who lost his own
tail, Mrs Enables ; and so I suppose it was
in malice prepense you gave the chaplain of
the Settlement a passage from Penang. Well,
what will be will be ; and, for my own part,
I see no reason for delay. You had best speak
to Leslie on the subject, and I don't doubt
you will find him amenable."

Leslie so literally jumped at the suggestion,
that he scarcely restrained his expressions of
delight at the approaching departure of the
visitors, as Mrs Enables resentfully remarked;
while Grace was too fondly proud to care to
play the coquette ; and if less demonstrative
than Ralph, she was to the full as compliant.
Though to him indeed she was outspoken
enough, and placed herself as generously at
his disposal as any lover need have desired.

"As you will have me, Ralph, you may
take me when you will ; you have won the

right to command me a thousand times
over.

And Kalph could have fallen down and worshipped
; only he compromised by clasping
her in his embrace, — a " passage of arms "
which had come so naturally to him of late,
that there was nothing very novel in it to
either.

CHAPTER XLIV.

L' EN VOL

To Leslie the circumstances of his wedding
seemed the very irony of destiny. A quiet
fellow naturally, of dreamy temperament and
unobtrusive disposition, he would have liked
to have taken Grace in a village church, with
her father to give her away, and the clerk and
a pew-duster for witnesses. And here he was
to be one of the central figures in a sort of international
ceremony, where, in the pomp of
oriental display, a subject people were to make
holiday.

"You might have been much worse off, old
fellow," remarked Jack, consolingly. 'you
might have been married at St George's, with
a bishop to officiate, and a dozen of bridesmaids
before a trooping of the fashions."

Thank you for reminding me of that,"

answered Leslie, gratefully. 'trust you for
always looking at things on their sunny side.
Not that there is likely to be any lack of sunshine
; and seven in the morning for a
marriage seems to be rather an canonical
hour."

Considering the noise that was made in the
Settlement, he might have been married much
earlier, for all the sleep he got. The loyal subjects
of the Sumatra Company had been wide-awake
all night like the mosquitoes, blazing
away blank charges from rusty firearms, and
letting off all manner of native squibs and
crackers. No one would have guessed that,
only a few weeks before, the Settlement had
been sacked by pirates. It seemed good policy
to encourage the people in their rejoicing on
so very exceptional an occasion ; so Moray had
been liberal of largesses, and had served out
powder freely. And the Malays of the lower
orders had plenty to look at, besides the unfamiliar
spectacle of a Christian wedding, and
the still less familiar sight of a beautiful and
unveiled bride. The chiefs of the country,
from the Sultan downwards, delighted to worship
the rising sun and the power of the

victorious English. The Sultan could hardly
condescend so far as to attend the ceremony
in person ; but our old acquaintance, Pangaran
Jaffir, brought presents in his name, — strings
of orient pearls, and massive bracelets of gold
and emerald. Many a minor chief came with
his train of followers, whom Moray received
with the rough old Highland hospitality, finding
them free quarters al fresco, with any
quantity of food and drink by way of bedding
and night-clothes. And there was Matusin,
at the head of his household and the notables
of Sangaa, proud of the slash across his cheek,
received from one of the piratical arises.
There, among the Malays, was Donald Ross,
in his tartans, dwarfing most of them by his
height, broad shoulders and muscle, and looking
as warlike as any. And by Donald's side
was the facetious Mr Rafi'erty, with whom the
Highlander had sworn eternal brotherhood,
since he learned how the Irishman had stood
by Miss Grace. By the way, when everybody,
whether with a claim or without one, was asking
favours, Mr Rafi'erty had prepared a petition
to Miss Moray.

By all means, Rafi'erty," she had said, '' I

think I may promise before you ask. I am
certain you will ask nothing unreasonable."

Unreasonable ! and sure, thin, it is the
most reasonable thing in life ; for it's sad
you would be were your wedding to be a
sorrow to me."

"Well, then, Eafferty, tell me what I can
do for you."

Just this. Miss. Devil the drop of drink
has passed my lips since the night thin
vagabonds broke into the Residency. T don't
rightly remember how long I took the pledge
for : and 'deed maybe it was the better for me,
with my broken head. But I would like to beat
liberty to get drunk tomorrow, were it to
happen so, with an aise conscience ; and it
would only be civil to Mr Ross if I were ready
to take a drop with him."

Grace laughed, though she felt the request
and the consequent responsibility to be embarrassing.


Take the drop with Donald, by all means,
Rafferty ; and as for the rest, I leave it to you.
I am sure that, on that day of all others, you
would not wish to make me ashamed of one of
the best of my friends."

Whereupon KafFerty had scratched his head
and thanked her, though only half satisfied.
He was bound to keep sober now, under any
circumstances ; and it seemed to him that it
was dishonouring so solemn an occasion. " But,
after all," so he consoled himself, "it was herself
that bid me do it ; and Heaven knows it
will be by no wish of my own if I should
be as well-behaved as any of thin water-drinking
niggers."

So Mr Eafferty kept himself strictly sober ;
but otherwise the ceremony went off very well.
Mr Enables proposed the health of the newly
married couple in a neat and appropriate
speech, and Leslie acknowledged all he owed
to his friend in more effusive and touching-language
than he dared have used had the
dejeuner come off in a London diningroom.
As for the bride, her eyes had filled with tears,
and yet Mrs Enables was so far from feeling
jealous that she shared Mrs Leslie's emotion.
Perhaps the feature of the proceedings was the
Eesident's speech, in which he lauded to the
skies both Briggs and Rafferty. Briggs broke
down, as was only natural, in an almost inarticulate
attempt at acknowledgment ; and

even the Irishman, for once, was covered with
confusion, and rejoiced that his humble position
sealed his lips. He contented himself
with dealing Donald Ross, who was sitting
next to him and cheering vociferously, a
friendly blow in the ribs with his elbow.

Old shoes were scarce in the Settlement,
since the population wore sandals ; but we
need not say that, having regard to the latitude
and the produce of the country, there
was no lack of rice to send in showers after
the pair when they embarked in a boat for the
improvised bungalow in a clearing, where they
were to pass the first days of the honeymoon.
Heavenly as was the climate, romantic as were
the surroundings, and delightfully as the lovers
were wrapped up in each other, they would
not have been sorry to have returned from
savagery to civilisation, and to have exchanged
the volcanic craters of the Sangaa chain for the
cloud-capped summits of Glenconan. Julia
had taken it for granted that if Grace did not
accompany her home — and, to tell the truth,
she could quite understand that each might
prefer to have her husband to herself in the
meantime — nevertheless she was sure to follow

very speedily. But to that apparently natural
arrangement an insurmountable obstacle was
interposed. Moray, although again the unembarrassed
master of his inheritance, and still
sufficiently rich — although far less wealthy
than he had been — declined altogether to resign
his post. " I may die at Glenconan, and
I trust I shall ; but God has given me a duty
to discharge here in the meantime. I have
life enough left, I believe, to settle ' the Settlement';
nor do I intend to turn my back on
the task till it is accomplished. It was in the
East I erred, and in the East I have the opportunity
of atoning, at all events, for early errors."
From that firm decision there was no driving
him ; and his daughter and his son-in-law
knew him too well to attempt doing so. But
being infinitely happy in each other where
they were, it was no great sacrifice to prolong
their exile ; and Moray, being willing to concede
something on 'his side, had the grace to
acquiesce in the sacrifice. " Everything comes
to those who wait," he remarked to Mr Enables;
"and when the nursery has to be
furnished, they must furnish the nursery at
Glenconan ! "

As for Donald Eoss, we need hardly say
that he decided on prolonging his leave of
absence indefinitely, sending Mr Winstanley
his dutiful respects and his demission as head-keeper.
Though in sticking to " Miss Grace "
and the fortunes of his former master, like his
master he by no means gave up the expectation
of being gathered to his fathers in his
native glen.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND Sors.

OP

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.

In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

Xoxo ready—

By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.

By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A.

By Professor Fraser, Edinburgh.

By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester.

By Professor Wallace, Oxford.

By Professor Veitch, Glasgow.

By Professor Edward Caird, Glasgow.

By J. Theodore Mers.

By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.

By Professor Room Robertson, London.

The Volumes in preparation are —

I Spinoza. By the Very Rev. Principal
vichol, Glasgow. I Caird, Glasgow.

In course of Publication.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS,

Edited by Mks OLIPHANT.

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Major-general Sir E, B.

Hamley, K.C.M.G.
Pascal. By Principal Bullock.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C. B.
Goethe. By A. Hay ward, Q.C.
MoLiERE. By the Editor and F. Carver,

M.A.
Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A.
Rabelais. By Walter Besant, M. A.
Caldron. By E. J. Hazel.

In Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
The Volumes finished are—

Saint Simon. By Clifton W. Collins, M. A.

Cervantes. By the Editor.

CoRNEiLLE AND Racine. By Henry M.
Trollope.

Madame de S^vigne. By Miss Thackeray.

La Fontaine, and other French Fabulists.
By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A.

Schiller. By James Sine, M.A., Author
of ' Lessing : his Life aud Writings.'

Tasso. By E. J. Hasell.

Rousseau. By Henry Grey Graham.

In preparation— "Leopards, hj the Editor.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown Svo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. And may also be had in
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, ;^3, los.
Saturday Review.— "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this iu giving ' English readers ' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'
P UBLICA TIONS.

ALISON". History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, ;^io, los.
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, £6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, £2, us.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon.

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6. 7s. cl.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-ninth

Thousand, 7s. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, £^1 people's
Edition, 31s. 6d.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

- Essays : Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Lives of Lord Castlereagh and Sir Charles Stewart,

Second and Third Marquesses of Londonderry. From the Original Papers of
the Family. 3 vols. 8vo, £2, 2s.

ADAMS. Great Campaigns. A Succinct Account of the Principal

Military Operations which have taken place in Europe from 1796 to 1870. By
Major C. Adams, Professor of Military History at the Staff College. Edited by
Captain C. Cooper King, Rem. Artillery, Instructor of Facti Royal Military
College. 8vo, with Maps. i6s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas Air. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait.
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post 8vo, £1, 5s. 6d.

Memoir of the Honourable George Keith Elphinstone,

K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven Marischal, Admiral of the Red. One
vol. 8vo, with Portrait, Illustrations, and Maps. 21s.

Brandenburg. The River Column : A Narrative of the Advance
of the River Column of the Nile Expeditions' Force, and its Return
down the Rapids. By Major-general Henry Brackexbuey, C.B., Late Commanding
the River Column With Maps by Major the Hon. F. L. L. Col-borne,
Royal Irish Rifles. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.

Bradley. Tunis, Past and Present. With a Narrative of the
French Conquest of the Regency. By A. M. Bradley. With numerous
Illustrations and Maps. 2 vols, post 8vo. '25s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal
Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. Svo, ^2, 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price i6s. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, LL.D.,
Inspector of and Reporter on Woods and Forests, Tenore House, Port Elgin,
Ontario. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal 8vo, with Engravings.
36s.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.

For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D. Crown Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society, &c. Crown Svo, with 8 Coloiu-ed Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 21S. 4s. 6d.

BUCHANAN. The Shire Highlands (East Central Africa). By

John Buchanan, Planter at Zoinba. Crown Svo, 5s.

Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
BuRBiDGE. Second Edition. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations,
7S. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton,
D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
8 vols., and Index. Crown Svo, £^, 3s.

History of the British Empire during the Reign of Queen

Anne. In 3 vols. Svo. 36s.

The Scot Abroad. New Edition. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

The Book-Hunter. New Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

(Ecumenical Council of Trent ; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V.; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown Svo, cloth boards, edges uncut. £2, 2s.

The Alius of St Columba. With a Prose Paraphrase and

Notes. In paper cover, 2s. 6d.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Geraldine Hawthorne : A Sketch. By the Author of ' Miss

Molly.' Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

BUTT. Alison. By the Author of ' Mips Molly.' 3 vols, crown 8vo,

25s. 6d.

Cried. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Sixteenth Thousand. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert.
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Cheap Edition, 3d.

CAMERON. Gaelic Names of Plants (Scottish and Irish). Collected
and Arranged in Scientific Order, with Notes on their Etymology, their
Uses, Plant Superstitions, &c., among the Celts, with copious Gaelic, English,
and Scientific Indices. By John Cameron, Sunderland. Svo, 7s. 6d.

CAMPBELL. Sermons Preached before the Queen at Balmoral.

By the Rev. A. A. Campbell, Minister of Craigie. Published by Command
of Her Majesty. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

CAMPBELL. Records of Argyll. Legends, Traditions, and Recollections
of Argyllshire Highlanders, collected chiefly from the Gaelic.
With Notes on the Antiquity of the Dress, Clan Colours or Tartans of the
Highlanders. By Lord Archibald Campbell. Illustrated with Nineteen
full-page Etchings. 4to, printed on hand-made paper, £'^, 3s.

Capon. Victor Hugo. A Memoir and a Study. By James

Capon, M.A. Post Svo, los 6d.

CARRICK. Koumiss ; or, Fermented Mare's Milk : and its Uses

in the Treatment and Cure of Pulmonary Consumption, and other Wasting
Diseases. With an Appendix on the best Methods of Fermenting Cow's Milk.
By George L. Carrick, M.D., L.R.C.S.E. and L.R.C.P.E., Physician to the
British Embassy, St Petersburg, &c. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D. & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &c. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

CAVE-BROWN. Lambeth Palace and its Associations. By J.

Cave-Brown, M.A., Vicar of Dealing, Kent, and for many years Curate of Lambeth
Parish Church. With an Introduction by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Second Edition, containing an additional Chapter on Medieval Life in the
Old Palaces. Svo, with Illustrations, 21s.

Charters. Canonicity ; or. Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoflfer's '.
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. Svo, iSs.

Chiron. 'T^^dxt Greek and Turk. By M. Valentine Chiron.

Post Svo. With Frontispiece and Map, los. 6d.

Christian. Life of Sir Robert Christian, Bart, M.D., D.C.L.

Oxon., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by his Sons. In two vols. Svo. Vol. I.— Autobiography. i6s. Volet.
—Memoirs. Shortly.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book on Common Order :

Being Finns of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Foiulh Edition,
6s.

COCHRAN. A Handy Text-book of Military Law. Compiled

chiefly to assist Officers preparing for Examination ; also for all Officers of
the Regular and Auxiliary Forces. Specially arranged according to the Syllabus
of Subjects of Examination for Promotion, Queen's Regulations, 1SS3.
Comprising also a Synopsis of part of the Army Act. By Major F. Cochran,
Hampshire Regiment, Garrison Instructor, North British District. Crown
Svo, 7s. 6d.

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell. By John Colquhoun. Sixth Edition, greatly enlarged.
With Illustrations. 2 vols, post 8vo, 26s.

COTTERILL. The Genesis of the Church. By the Right. Rev.

Henry Cotterill, D.D., Bishop of Edinburgh. Demy 8vo, i6s.

COTTERILL. Suggested Reforms in Public Schools. By C. C.

Cotterill, M.A., Assistant Master at Fetters College, Eden. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

COX. The Opening of the Line : A Strange Story of Dogs and their

Doings. By Ponsonby Cox. Profusely Illustrated by J. H. O. Brown. 4to.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Cran-stout,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into English

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D. , Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. Svo, 12s.

The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. Svo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. Svo,

7s. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

DAVIES. A Book of Thoughts for every Day in the Year. Selected
from the Writings of the Rev. J. Llewellyn Davies, M.A. By Two

Clergymen. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

DAVIES. Norfolk Broads and Rivers ; or, The "Waterways, Lagoons,

and Decoys of East Anglia. By G. Christopher Davies, Author of 'The
Swan and her Crew.' Illustrated with Seven full-page Plates. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

DE Aisle. Life as I have Found It. By General De Aisle.

Post Svo, 12S. 6d.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Eighth. Price 6s. 6d.

Dion. The Germans. By the Rev. Father Dion, of the Order

of Preaching Friars. Translated into English by Raphael Ledos de Beaufort.
Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

DOGS, OUR DOMESTICATED : Their Treatment in reference

to Food, Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. By ' Magenta.'
Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. Svo, los. 6d.

Bludgeon. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment

Light Infantry Militia, now 3rd Battalion The Royal Scots; with an
Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the
old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant 3rd Battalion The Royal
Scots. Post Svo, with illustrations, 10s. 6d.

DUNSMORE. Manual of the Law of Scotland, as to the Relations

between Agricultural Tenants and their Landlords, Servants, Merchants, and
Bowers. By W. Dunsmore, Advocate. Svo, 7s. 6d.

DUPRE. Thoughts on Art, and Autobiographical Memoirs of

Giovanni Dupre. Translated from the Italian by E. M. Peruzzi, with the
permission of the Author. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

ELIOT. George Eliot's Life, Related in her Letters and Journals.

Arranged and Edited by her husband, J. W. Cross. With Portrait and other
Illustrations. Third Edition. 3 vols, post 8vo, 42s.

Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Handsomely

printed in a new type, 21 volumes, crown 8vo, price ;^5, 5s. The Volumes
are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. : —

Romola. 2 vols. — Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob, i a'oI. —
Adam Bede. 2 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols.— The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols.— Felix Holt. 2 vols.— Middlemarch. 3 vols.—
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols.— The Spanish Gypsy, i vol.— Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. i vol. — Theophrastus Such, i vol. —
Essays, i vol.

Life of George Eliot. Cabinet Edition. With Portrait and

other Illustrations. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 15s.
Novels by George Eliot. Cheap Edition. Adam Bede. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated.
3s., cloth. — Silas Marner: The Weaver of Kaveloe. Illustrated.
2s. 6d., cloth. — Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Middlemarch. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Daniel Deronda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Essays. By George Eliot. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s,

Impressions of Theophrastus Such. New Edition. Crown

Svo, 5s.

The Spanish Gypsy. Crown Svo, 5s.

The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New.

New Edition. Cap. 8vo, 5s., cloth.

Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Sixth Edition. Cap. Svo, 6s.

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on line paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols.
crown Svo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers,
Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald, F.S.A. Crown Svo,

FAITHS OF THE World, The. A Concise History of the

Great Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St
Giles' Lectures — Second Series. Complete in one volume, crown Svo, 5s.

Farmer. A Tour in Greece in 1880. By Richard Ridley

Farmer. With Twenty-seven full-page Illustrations by Lord Windsor.
Royal Svo, with a Map, 21s.

FAUCTT. Some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a Series

of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. With Portraits engraved by
the late F. Hold. Dedicated by Special Permission to Her Most Gracious
Majesty the Queen. 4to, printed on hand-made paper.

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

Bea. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
LusHiNGTON. 3 vols, crowii Svo, 34S. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. los. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition,

los. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.

FLETCHER. Lectures on the Opening Clauses of the Litany
delivered in St Paul's Church, Edinburgh. By John B. Fletcher, M.A.
Crown 8vo, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. Vol. I., containing
the History of that Philosophy in France and Germany. By Robert Flint,
D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. 8vo.

[Neve Edition in preparation.

Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. Fourth Edition.

Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Third Edition. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

FORBES. The Campaign of Garibaldi in the Two Similes : A Personal
Narrative. By Charles Stuart Forbes, Commander, Ren. Post Svo,
with Portraits, 12s.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d. For List of Volumes issued, see p. 2.

Francis. The Jews of Barrow. Stories by Karl Emil francis.

Translated by M. W. Macdonald. Crown Svo, 6s.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

The Provost. Cap. Svo, 2S.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. Svo, 2s.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. Svo, 2S.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown Svo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown Svo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal. Hymns for Public Worship. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly. Various
sizes — viz.: i. Large type, for Pulpit use, cloth, 3s. 6d. 2. Longprimer tj^pe,
cloth, red edges, is. 6cl. ; French morocco, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois
type, cloth, red edges, is. ; French morocco, 2s. 4- Minion type, limp cloth,
6d. ; French morocco, is. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Children's
Hymnal, paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Paraphrases,
cloth, 3s. ; French morocco, 4s. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No, 3, bound with
the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Committees
on Hymns and on Psalmody. The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk.
Cloth, IS. 6d. : French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic Sol-fa Notation,
IS. 6d. and 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Fixed Tune for each Hymn.

Longprimer type, 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal Appendix, i. Longprimer type, is.

2. Nonpareil type, cloth limp, 4d.; paper cover, 2d.

Scottish Hymnal with Appendix Incorporated. Bourgeois

type, limp cloth, is. Large type, cloth, red edges, 2s. 6d. Nonpareil type,
paper covers, 3d. ; cloth, red edges, 6d.

GERARD. Rata: What's in a Name. By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. In one volume, crown Svo, 6s.

Beggar my Neighbour. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Waters of Hercules. 3 vols. Post Svo, 25s. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse by Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, cap.,
3S. 6d.

GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. Svo, 6s.

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Cummins, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' Fourth Edition,
post Svo. With Illustrations and Map. ys. 6d.

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of-war. New and

Cheaper Edition. Svo. With Illustrations and Map. 12s. 6d.

Fire-Fountains. The Kingdom of Hawaii : Its Volcanoes,

and the History of its Missions. With Map and numerous Illustrations. 2
vols. Svo, 25s.

Granite Cras : The Yo-semite Region of California. Illustrated

with 8 Engravings. One vol. Svo, i6s.
Wanderings in China. 2 vols. Svo, with Illustrations, 25s.

GRAHAM. The Life and Work of Seed Aimed Khan, C.S.I.

By Lieut-colonel G. F. I. Graham, B.S.C. Svo, 14s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New

Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Sixth Edition. 2

vols. Svo, 24S.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols., 24S.

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, Svo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. Svo, with Portrait, iSs.

Sir William Hamilton : The Man and his Philosophy.

Two Lectures Delivered before the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution,
January and February 1SS3. By the Same. Crown Svo, 2s.

HAMILTON. Annals of the Peninsular Campaigns. By Captain
Thomas Hamilton. Edited by F. Harden. Svo, 163. Atlas of Maps to
illustrate the Campaigns, 12s.

HAMILTON. Mr Monticello. A Romance of the Civil Service.

By W. A. Baillie Hamilton. In 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.
Hamlet. The Operations of AVar Explained and Illustrated. By
Lieut. - General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.M.G. Fourth Edition,
revised throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

Svo. 2S. 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. Svo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. Svo, 2s.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown Svo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6(1.

Traceable Hall. "When George the Third was King."

New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Harbor. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.
By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M.A., Assistant Director of Education,

Admiralty, is.

Short Sermons for Hospitals and Sick Seamen. Cap. 8vo,

cloth, 4$. 6d.

Madman. Scenes and Adventures in Central America. Edited

hy Frederick Harden. Crown 8vo. 6s.

HARRISON. Our Tunis Colledge. Sketches of the History of

the Old College of Edinburgh, with an Appendix of Historical Documents.
By John Harrison. Crown Svo, 5s.

HASELL. Bible Partings. By E. J. Hasell. Crown Svo, 6s.

Short Family Prayers. By Miss Hasell. Cloth, is.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.

"With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown Svo, bound in extra

cloth, £x, IS. Or, sold separately— viz. :
The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ from the "Written "Word.
2 vols., 8s. — The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ from the Written
Word. 2 vols 8s. — The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice of the
Principal Exercises of Piety, i vol., 4s.

Heathen. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical

Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By G, S. Heathen, M.R.C, Vas.

Crown Svo, 5s.

The Stock-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.—
One Volume, royal Svo, 5s.— The Same, with Illustrations engraved on
Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. — Six Volumes in Three, cap., 12s. 6d.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

HOBART PACHA. The Torpedo Scare ; Experiences during the
Turco-Russian War. By Hobart Pacha. Reprinted from 'Blackwood's

Magazine,' with additional matter. Crown 8vo, is.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By
the Rev. Canon Hole. Ninth Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Cap. Svo, 3s.

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the

Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols.
cap., Is.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 VOlS. Crown 8V0, ils.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. Svo, £1, is.

HYDE. The Royal Mail ; its Curiosities and Romance. By James

Wilson Hyde, Superintendent in the General Post Office, Edinburgh. Second
Edition, enlarged. Crown Svo, with Illustrations, 6s.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial 8vo, pp. 676, 21s.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Blimderland ; or, Grand Excursion

to Bluudertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JOHNSON. The Scots Musical Museum. Consisting of upwards

of Six Hundred Songs, with proper Basses for the Pianoforte. Originally published
by James Johnson ; and now accompanied with Copious Notes and
Illustrations of the Lyric Poetry and Music of Scotland, by the late William
Stenhouse; with additional Notes and Illustrations, by David Laing and
C. K. Sharps. 4 vols. 8vo, Roxburgh binding, £1, 12s. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' ' The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Thirteenth
Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By Sir Charles A.
Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. Svo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Sir Charles A. Cameron,
M.D., F.R.C.S.I. , &c. Eighty-first Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation
in Scotland, 1528. By T. P. Johnston. Crown 8vo, with Two Etchings by
the Author, 5s.

KENNEDY. Sport, Travel, and Adventures in Newfoundland
and the West Indies. By Captain W. R. Kennedy, Ren. With Illustrations
by the Author. Post Svo, 14s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank
Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Wadhani College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.
KiNGLAKE. Cabinet Edition. Seven Volumes, illustrated with maps and
plans, crown Svo, at 6s. each. The Volumes respectively contain :—

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. II. Russia
Met and Invaded. III. The Battle of the Alma. IV. Sebastopol
AT Bay. V. The Battle of Balaclava. VI. The Battle of Inkerman.
VII. Winter Troubles.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter

Troubles. Demy Svo, with a Map, 16s.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VII. Demy

8vo. \ ln iwe-paraVion .

■ ■ Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Crimean War,' price 6s.

Knolls. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbrlick,' Editor of ' Incidents iu the
Sepoy War,' &c. With Engravings. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

LAING. Select Remains of the Ancient Popular and Romance

Poetry of Scotland. Originally Collected and Edited by David Lain;, LL.D.
Re-edited, with Memorial-Introduction, by John Small, M.A. With a Portrait
of Dr Laing. 4to, 25s. The Edition has been limited to 350 copies.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
Bey Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. 8vo, 12s.

LEE. Lectures on the History of the Church of Scotland, from the
Reformation to the Revolution Settlement. By the late Very Rev. John Lee,
D.D., LL.D., Principal of the University of Edinburgh. With Notes and Appendices
from the Author's Papers. Edited by the Rev. William Lee, D.D.
2 vols. 8vo, 21S.

LEE. Miss Brown : A Novel. By Vernon Lee. 3 vols, post 8vo,

25s. 6d.

LEE. Glimpses in the Twilight. Being various Notes, Records,

and Examples of the Supernatural. By the Rev. George F. Lee, D.C.L.
Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

LEE-HAMILTON. Poems and Transcripts. By Eugene Lee-hamilton.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

LEES. A Handbook of Sheriff Court Styles. By J. M. Lees,

M.A., LL.B., Advocate, Sheriff - Substitute of Lancashire. Svo, 16s.

A Handbook of the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Small

Debt Courts. Svo. ys. 6d.

LETTERS FROM THE HIGHLANDS. Reprinted from 'The

Times.' Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

Linda. The Philosopher's Pendulum and other Stories. By

Rudolph Linda. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

LITTLE. Madagascar: Its History and People. By the Rev.

Henry W. Little, some years Missionary in East Madagascar. Post Svo,
los. 6d.

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
With Twelve Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
Svo, iSs.

The Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. In 2 vols. Svo. Volume I.,
price 1 6s. Volume II., price dos.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. A New and Cheaper Edition, 2s. 6d., cloth.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer-stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. Svo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. AVorks of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.
Four vols, crown Svo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown Svo. 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown Svo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 4s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation

in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.
- Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. Svo, 5s.

Minos. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Dalkeith Palace.
Two large vols, royal 8vo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £a„ 7s. 6d.

Vol. I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, ^-z, los.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, ;^i, 17s. 6d.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. nth
Edition, revised to the present time. Crown 8vo, pii. 688. 7s. 6d.

Elements of Modern Geography. 51st Thousand, revised
to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate

Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography' and ' Elements of
Geography.* Tenth Edition, revised. Crown Svo, pp. 224, 2s.

- Outlines of Modern Geography. troth Thousand, revised
to the present time. imo, pp. 118, is.

- First Steps in Geography. sed Thousand. imo, pp.

56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. 25th Thousand, revised. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

- Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natum-al Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACKAY. An Old Scots Brigade. Being the History of Mackay's

Regiment, now incorporated with the Royal Scots. With an Appendix containing
many Original Documents connected with the History of the Regiment.
By John Mackay (late) of Herriesdale. Crown 8vo, 5s.

MACKAY. The Founders of the American Republic. A History

of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison. With a Supplementary
Chapter on the Inherent Causes of the Ultimate Failure of American
Democracy. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

MACKELLAR. More Leaves from the Journal of a Life in the

Highlands, from 1862 to 1882. Translated into Gaelic by Mrs Mary Mackel-
LAR. By command of Her Majesty the Queen. In one vol. crown Svo, with
Illustrations. [/n the press.

Mckenzie. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Fifth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B., Eden. ;
Advocate. Svo, 12s.

MADOC. Thereby. A Novel. By Far Madoc. Two vols.

Post Svo, 17S.

MAIN. Three Hundred English Sonnets. Chosen and Edited by

David M. Main. Cap. Svo, 6s.

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By Lord John

Manners, M.P., G.C.B. New Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

MANNERS. Gems of German Poetry. Translated by Lady John

Manners. Small quarto, 3s. 6d.

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Account
of the Women's Associations of Germany under the Red Cross. By
Lady John Manners. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

Some Personal Recollections of the Later Years of the Earl

of Beaconsfield, K.G. Sixth Edition, 6d.

MANNERS. Employment of Women in the Public Service. By

Lady John Manners. 6d.

Some of the Advantages of Easily Accessible Beading and

Recreation Rooms, and Free Libraries. With Remarks on Starting and
Maintaining Them. Crown 8vo, is.

A Sequel to Rich Men's Dwellings, and other Occasional

Papers. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Separate, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Second Edition. 5s.

Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Translated by Sir Theodore Martin,

K.C.B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, 21s.

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Edition, post 8vo,

7$. 6d.

The Vita Nova of Dante. With an Introduction and

Notes. Second Edition, crown Svo, 5s.

Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlae-

GER. Cap. Svo, 5s.

Correggio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. Svo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.

MARTIN. Some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a Series

of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. With Portraits engraved by
the late F. Hold. Dedicated by Special Permission to Her Most Gracious
Majesty the Queen. 4to, printed on hand-made paper.

Matson. Can the Old Faith Live with the New ? or the

Problem of Evolution and Revelation. By the Rev. George Matson, D.D.,
Innellan. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

MEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer— Dr Bell. By
J. M. D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

The Golden Primer. With Coloured Illustrations by Walter
Crane. Small 4to, boards, 5s.
MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. With

the view of Illustrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By
Francisque-Michel, F.S.A. Lord. and Scot., Correspondant de Institut de
France, &c. In One handsome Quarto Volume, printed on hand-made paper,
and appropriately bound in Roxburgh style. Price cs.

MICHIE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture

and General Management. By Christopher Y. Michel, Forester, Sullen House.
Crown Svo, with Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, 5s.

MILLIONAIRE. THE. By Louis J. Jennings, Author of ' Field

Paths and Green Lanes,* ' Rambles among the Hills,' &c. Second Edition.
3 vols, crown Svo, 25s. 6d.

MILNE. The Problem of the Churchless and Poor in our Large
Towns. With special reference to the Home Mission Work of the Church of
Scotland. By the Rev. Root. Milne, M.A., Towie. Crown Svo, 5s.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Second Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

New Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four
Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, 9s.

Mair. Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

Homeric. Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons.

By the Rev. A. W. Moderne, M.A., D.Sc, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics
in King's College, London. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

The Basis of Religion. Being an Examination of Natural

Religion. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

The Origin of Evil, and other Sermons. Fourth Edition,

enlarged. Crown 8vo, ss.

Personality. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and

a Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Second Edition. Crown
8vo, 3S.

Agnosticism, and other Sermons. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1S79. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, los. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A

Chapter of Recent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the 'Life
of Edward Irving,' &e. 2 vols, crown 8vo, £1, 4s.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts. Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, 8vo, £j.

MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE: A Gossip with

no Plot m Particular By A Plain Woman. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

NASEBY. Oaks and Birches. A Novel. By Naseby. 3 vols.

crown 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Leaves. Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old

Contributor to ' Mama.' By the Hon. Lord Leaves. Fifth Edition, cap. 8vo,
4s.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of ' Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry allen
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Regius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Aberdeen. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged.
Crown 8vo, pp. 816, with 394 Engravings on Wood, 14s.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Third Edition,
enlarged. Crown 8vo, with 188 Engravings on Wood, 6s.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 156 Engravings, 3s.

Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Third Edition, with

Engravings, is. 6d.

A Manual of Palceontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Paheontology. Second
Edition. Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo, with 722 Engravings,

£2, 23.

NICHOLSON. The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline
of the Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. By
Henry Allen Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S , Regius Professor
of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. Crown 8vo, with numerous
Engravings, los. 6d,

On the "Tabulate Corals" of the Palaeozoic Period, with

Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15 Lithograph
Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal 8vo, 21s.

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticulipora

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated
with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super-royal
8vo, iSs.

Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom.

8vo, with 106 Illustrations, 6s.

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons.

By the late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh.
Cro^vn 8vo, 5s. 6d.

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Land of Gilead, With Excursions in the

Lebanon. By Laurence Oliphant, Author of ' Lord Elgin's Mission to
China and Japan,' &c. With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 21s.

The Land of Khemi. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, los. 6d.

Sympneumata : or, Evolutionary Functions now Active in

Man. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

Altera Peto. Seventh Edition, Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Traits and Travesties ; Social and Political. PostSvo, ios.6d.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Fifth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. By Mrs

Oliphant. 5S., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2s. 6d.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 12s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial 8vo, £1, us. 6d.

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or, Scenes and Studies in Iceland.

By E. J. Oswald. Post 8vo, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index. Eleventh
Edition, 2s. 6d,

Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

Geology for General Readers. A Series of Popular Sketches

in Geology and Palaeontology. Third Edition, enlarged, 6s,

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited by Charles Lap worth, F.G.S., &c.,
Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birmingham,
nth Edition. 2s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Third

Edition, Revised and Enlarged by Professor Tamworth. With Engravings.

5S.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Baton. Cap., cloth, 53.

Poems by a Painter. Cap., cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth

Patterson. 8vo, 12s.

The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious Metals

upon the World. 2 vols. 8vo, 31s. 6d.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. £1, 2s,

PAUL. Analysis and Critical Interpretation of the Hebrew Text of

the Book of Genesis. Preceded by a Hebrew Grammar, and Dissertations on
the Genuineness of the Pentateuch, and on the Structure of the Hebrew Language.
By the Rev. William Paul, A.M. 8vo, iSs.

PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management. By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown Svo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes. By Professor Mahaffy,

Dublin.

2. Butler. By the Rev. W. Lucas Collins,

M.A.

3. Berkeley, By Professor A. Campbell

Fraser, Edinburgh.

4. FiCHTE. By Professor Adamson,

Manchester.

5. Kant. By Professor Wallace, Oxford.


6. Hamilton. By Professor Veitch,
Glasgow.

7. Hegel. By Professor Edward Caird,
Glasgow.

8. Leibniz. By J. Theodore Mers.

9. Vico. By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.


10. Hobbes. By Professor Room Robertson,
London.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
bv Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French : with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, 121110, 4s.

POTTS AND Darnel. Aditns Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,
Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Eighth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition, crown 8vo. \ln the press.

Prince. Towards the Mountains of the Moon. A Journey in

f East Africa. By Mrs Prince of Whytbank, Yair. With a Map, Svo, 12s. 6d.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large Svo, jC^i 3S.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society.

By Lieut-col. Balcabres D. Wardle Ramsay. Two vols, post Svo, 218.

RAMSAY. Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century. From

themes. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertjre. In two vols. 8vo. [In the jiress.

Mankind. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Ranking,
M.A., Advocate. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 'Svo, 45s.

Records OF THE TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL OF THE

UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. Celebrated in April 1884. Published
under the Sanction of the Senatus Academics. Large 4to, £2, 12s. 6d. Only

150 copies 'printed for sale to the pmhlic.

Simmer. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfred

Rummer, Author of ' Our Old Country Towns,' &c. Beautifully Illustrated
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. Svo, 21s.

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson,
m. a. Cap. 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. 6s.
The White Angel of the Polly Ann, and other Stories. A

Book of Fables and Fancies. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

Our Holiday Among the Hills. By James and Janet

LoGiE Robertson. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

ROSCOE. Rambles with a Fishing-rod. By E. S. Roscoe. Crown

8vo, 4s. 6d.

ROSS. Old Scottish Regimental Colours. By Andrew Ross,

S.S.C., Hon. Secretary Old Scottish Regimental Colours Committee. Dedicated
by Special Permission to Her Majesty the Queen. Folio, handsomely
bound in cloth, £2, 12s. 6d.

RUSSELL. The Hangs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By

John Russell. Large Svo, with Illustrations. 21s.

RUSSELL. Reminiscences of Yarrow. By James Russell, D.D.,

late Minister of Yarrow. With a Preface by Professor Campbell Eraser.
In one vol. post Svo. [In the press.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870: Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. Svo, with
Maps and Plans, £i, ns. 6d.

SCHETKY. Ninety Years of Work and Play. Sketches from the

Public and Private Career of John Christian Schetky, late Marine Painter in
Ordinary to the Queen. By his Daughter. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING. By "Black Palmer." Crown Svo,

interleaved with blank pages, 4s.

SELLER AND STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By^\''iLLiAM Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Authors ' The
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post Svo, with Engravings, i6s.

SETON. Memoir of Alexander Seton, Earl of Dunfermline, Seventh

President of the Court of Session, and Lord Chancellor of Scotland. By
George Seton, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of the 'Law and Practice of Heraldry in
Scotland,' &c. Crown 4to, 21s.

SETH. Scottish Philosophy. A Comparison of the Scottish and

German Answers to Hume. Balfour Philosophical Lectures, University of
Edinburgh. By Andrew Seth, M.A, Professor of Logic and Philosophy in
the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire. Crown Svo, 5s.

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated
by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 36s.

Hand. Letters from the West of Ireland. Reprinted from the
'Times.' By Alexander Innes Hand. Author of 'Letters from the West
Highlands.' Crown Svo, 5s.

SHARPE. The Correspondence of Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.

With a Memoir. In two vols. Svo. Illustrated with Etchings and other
Engravings. [In the press.

SIM. Margaret Sin's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B.

Walford, Author of ' Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SIMPSON. Dogs of other Days : Nelson and Puck. By Eve

Blantyre Simpson. Cap. Svo, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.
SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals
of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the^Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.8.,
Captain, Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. Svo, with Atlas, sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown
Svo, los. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown Svo, 8s.

A Discourse on Ethics of the School of Paley. Svo, 4s.

Dramas, i. Sir William Crichton. 2. Athelwold. 3.

Guide. 24mo, boards, 3s.

SMITH. Greek Testament Lessons for Colleges, Schools, and

Private Students, consisting chiefly of the Sermon on the Mount and the
Parables of our Lord. With Notes and Essays. By the Rev. J. Hunter
Smith, M. A., King; Edward's School, Birmingham. Crown Svo, 6s.

SMITH. Writings by the Way. By John Campbell Smith,

M.A., Sheriff-substitute. Crown Svo, 9s.
SMITH. The Secretary for Scotland. Being a Statement of the
Powers and Duties of the new Scottish Office. With a Short Historical
Introduction and numerous references to important Administrative Documents.
By W. C. Smith, LL.B., Advocate. Svo, 6s.

Softer. A Lady's Ride Across Spanish Honduras. By Maria

Softer. With Illustrations. Post Svo, 12s. 6d,

Morley. The Ethics of Naturalism. Being the Shaw Fellowship

Lectures 1884. By W. R. Morley, MA , Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,

and Examiner in Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Crown Svo, 6s.

SOUTHEY. The Birthday, and other Poems. Second Edition, 5s.

Chapters on Churchyards. Cap., 2s. 6d.

SPEKE. What led to the Discovery of the Nile Source. By John

Hanging Speke, Captain Hem. Indian Army. Svo, with Maps, (fee, 14s.

Sprout. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland ;

or, the Celebration of Public Worship, the Administration of the Sacraments,
and other Divine Offices, according to the Order of the Church of Scotland.
By George W. Sprout, D.D., Minister of North Berwick. Crown Svo, 6s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series

of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, £1, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. Svo, £,\6, impeach
County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound in cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger, Farm-Labourer, Field-worker,
and Cattleman. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E. Illustrated with
Portraits of Animals painted from the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood,
representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated
of in the Work. A New and Revised Edition, the third, in great part Rewritten.
2 vols, large Svo, £,•2, los.

The Book of Farm Buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.ll.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm;' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large Svo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. ^i, his. 6d.

STEPHENS. The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' £1, 2s.

Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings, is.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas., Author of ' Stable Economy.' 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working.
Seventh Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

STONE. Hugh Moore : a Novel. By Evelyn Stone. 2 vols.

crown 8vo, 17s.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Eighth Edition, Revised throughout. Crown
8vo, pp. 800. 7s. 6d.

Dictionary of the English Language, Pronouncing,

Etymological, and Explanatory. Revised .by the Rev, P. H, Help. Library
Edition. Imperial 8vo, handsomely bound in half morocco, 31s. 6d.

The School Ethnological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary
and an Etymological Spelling-book. Cap. 8vo, pp. 254. 2s.

STORY. Nero ; A Historical Play. By W. W. Story, Author of

'Robe di Roma.' Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo, 5s.

He and She ; or, A Poet's Portfolio. Cap. 8vo, in parchment,
3s. 6d.

Poems. 2 vols., cap., 7s. 6d.

Damietta. A Summer Idol. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d,

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Gardener to the Earl of Into ; formerly
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late. Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown 8vo, 6s.

TEMPLE. Lancelot Ward, M.P. A Love-story. By George

Temple. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Tholuck, D. D. , Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved and Coloured Plans, illustrative of the various
systems of Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to
his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Drumlanrig. Third Edition, crown
Svo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being

a series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing of Pines,
Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings
of Hothouses, &c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of these
Fruits. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch,
K.G., at Drumlanrig. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Tenth Edition, 8vo, 5s.
TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.
TROLLOPE. An Autobiography by Anthony Trollope. Two

Volumes, post Bvo, with Portrait. Second Edition. Price 21s.

The Fixed Period. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

An Old Man's Love. 2 vols, crown 8vo, 12s.

T Loch. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. Bvo. 28s.

Modern Theories in Philosophy and Religion. 8vo, 15s.

The Christian Doctrine of Sin ; being the Croall Lecture

for 1876. Crown Bvo, 6s.

Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All-wise
and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, los. 6d.

Luther, and other Leaders of the Reformation. Third

Edition, enlarged. Crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

TWO STORIES OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN. 'The

Open Door,' 'Old Lady Mary.' Crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Veitch. Institutes of Logic. By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor
of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow. Post Bvo, 12s. 6d.
VIRGIL. The aeneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank

Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravenswood. 2 vols. cap. Bvo,

WALFORD. The Novels of L. B. Walford. New and Uniform

Edition. Crown 8vo, each 5s.
Mr Smith : A Part of his Life.
Cousins.
Pauline.

Troublesome Daughters.

Dick Nether.

The Baby's Grandmother.

Nan, and other Stories. 2 vols, crown Bvo, 12s.

WARDEN. Poems. By Francis Heywood Warden. With a

Notice by Dr Vanroth. Crown Bvo, 5s.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

Bvo, cloth, 15s. 6d. Or separately :—

Diary of a Late Physician. Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; boards, 2s. Illustrated,
crown Bvo, 7s 6d.
Ten Thousand A-year. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; boards, 2s. 6d.
Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WATSON. Christ's Authority ; and other Sermons. By the late
Archibald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of
Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very
Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

WEBSTER. The Angler and the Loop-Rod. By David Webster.

Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamlet, K.C.M.G. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,
while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Edited
by the Rev. Professor Alex. T. Mitchell, of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D. With a Historical and Critical Introduction by Professor
Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White. Seventh Edition, post Svo, with Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland — Kintyre and Knap-dale.
By Captain T. P. White, Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, £4, 4s. Vol. I., KintjTe, sold separately,

£2, 2S.

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown Svo, £2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s.

The Notes Ambrosial. Complete, 4 vols., 14s.

• • The Comedy of the Notes Ambrosial. By Christopher

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo, ^ .

WILSON. From Korti to Khartoum : A Journal of the Desert

March from Korti to Gubat and of the Ascent of the Nile in General Gordon's
Steamers. By Colonel Sir Charles W. Wilson, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., E.E.
Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakspeare. With

Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of S.
Andrews. 3 vols, post 8vo, each price 7s. 6d.

A Discourse on Scottish Church History. From the Reformation
to the Present Time. With Prefatory Remarks on the St Giles' Lectures,
and Appendix of Notes and References. Crown Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

Worsley, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. Svo, 6s.

Wilde. An 111- Regulated Mind. A Novel. By Katharine

Wilde, Author of ' A Dreamer.' Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

YOUNG. Songs of Stranger done into English Verse. By William

Young. New Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.

HI-fr- .

a':

.-lis *!

'^{^M

3-

■ ,1;; : r '■ ■^'^[

■*ri. '/

/ ;/

.'-m:^:.::^'
