in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sportofchance01shar

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

SWEET IS TRUE LOVE. By Katharine King, author

of ' The Queen of the Regiment,' ' Off the Roll,' &c. 2 vols.

A DOUBLE WEDDING. By the Author of 'St. Slave's,'

Janita's Cross,' 'Annette,' &c. 3 vols.

THE GAY WORLD. By Joseph Hatton, author of

'Olytie,' 'Cruel London," &c. 3 vols.

CAST ON THE WATERS. By Hugh Coleman

Davidson, author of ' The Green Hills by the Sea.' 3 vols.

IN BAD HANDS. By F. W. Robinson, author of

Grandmother's Money,' ' The Courting of Mary Smith,' &c. 3 vols.

HURST * BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

WILLIAM SHARP

Hither and thither blown, the sport of Chance.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Rights Reserved.

ft

TO

THEODORE WATTS

POET — Romanist— CRITIC,

THESE PAGES
ARE

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.



OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

PROLOGUE.

WHAT HAPPENED OFF CONGER COVE.

The sea was rising in wild tumult along the
western coast of Cornwall, and nowhere was its
rage more violent than against the slightly
indented, horse-shoe-shaped inlet, known as
Conger Cove. When, in fine weather, any boat
northward bound passed near Conger Cove, the
latter looked like a mere inland curve, or, at
low tide and with a dead calm, like a gigantic
mouth wherein appeared as teeth the jagged
reefs fringing with a strange regularity the mass
of rock which forms a semicircular wall against
VOL. I. B

the advance of the sea. From the cliffs behind
one could see how this slit gradually widens
into a small narrow harbour, in which by day
are generally anchored some twenty to thirty
mackerel boats, and at whose upper end cluster
the houses of the village of St. Aphra. But
when the sea is high this narrow opening is
almost invisible to those looking landward, owing
to the clouds of spray which are incessantly
tossed up round the mouth-like cove ; and
absolutely so when on a wintry twilight not
even a glimmer of light shines across the waves
from the inhospitable coast.

And a wintry twilight it was when the Great
Storm, as the Cornish fishermen long continued
to speak of it, began to develop from a furious
gale into a hurricane.

To the right the Beacon Cliff loomed dimly
against the western sky, which still maintained
an ominous hue of purple-black quite distinct
from the intense darkness swiftly spreading
everywhere, as if invisible powers were drawing
from the eastward a pall of impermeable
gloom. The thunder had ceased, or, if it had

not ceased, its sound was overwhelmed in the
tumult of the tempest. For a moment the
clouds parted far out at sea, and a single star
shone forth like a ray of hope. Then it seemed
literally blown out, for immediately the clouds
became indivisible blackness again ; and by a
strange coincidence a fiery meteor flashed as it
fell from the very point where the star had disclosed
itself — as if the latter, swept from its
orbit, were hurtling into space.

The morning preceding the eve of the Great
:Storm had broken with a wild, but as yet fitful,
gale. Hours before dawn the smacks had run in
from the sea, each fisherman knowing that no
ordinary tempest was brewing, and that its fury
might at any moment break forth and destroy
them and their boats. All day the wind had blown
with great force, gradually increasing till it became
a tempest. The men of St. Aphra lounged
about in an aimless way, though some still slept
after the toilsome efforts of the preceding night
and early morning ; whilst most of those who
were about kept uneasily glancing towards
Conger Cove, where the smacks were rising

B 2

and falling on the heavy swell that surged in at
the entrance of the tiny harbour.

When the sun set that afternoon, it foreboded
further change for the worse. A small
group of men had strolled down to the outer
end of the ' Slice,' but even at that early time
in the tempest's growing fury they were half-blinded
by the spray. When they returned to
the Ferry Rocks they were joined by Garth
Trendall. The Trendalls had always been a
silent race, seldom speaking unless spoken to,
and then only to the point ; and though Garth
was among the most prosperous, and was certainly
the most respected, of the fishermen of
his native place, he was hardly what could be
called popular. While few of the younger men
cared much for the companionship on land of
Garth Trendall, everyone trusted and respected
him. The old and the poor trusted him ; those
more immediately associated with him in his
daily labour knew that no man was his equal
in any dangerous emergency ; and that if he had
more moral strength, he had also more determination
— in a word, more virility than any

two men in St. Aphra. Married, his wife Mary
was in every way a fitting mate — cheerful,
active, and full of kindliness, and only regretful
because that her buxom maturity was
blessed with only one child, a lad of some ten
years.

When Trendall reached the group of men at
the Ferry Rocks, the latter saw at once he had
come with a purpose, probably with some suggestion
as to the safety of their boats. A tall
man, with grizzled hair, somewhat worn face,
slightly aquiline nose, and piercing grey-blue
eyes, he had an unmistakable individuality that
in any small community would at once have
marked him out.

Men, this is going to be the worst gale seen
by living man on the Cornish coast. There'll be
more lives lost to-night than in a week of ordinary
storms.'

It's a true word, it is,' said one of the
men.

There'll be neither moon nor stars seen tonight,'
resumed Trendall.

A pause succeeded, during which the men

looked uneasily at one another. Evidently some
doubt, perhaps the same surmise, had entered
into each of their minds. Startling all amid this
hesitating silence came a sudden flash of intense
light, followed by .a deep, booming roll of
thunder. The men turned to gain their separate
shelters, as if there were nothing more to be
said.

All except Trendall. He stood still, while
a brief look of scorn flashed across his face.

Men,' he cried, ' wait a bit. I've summit to
say to ye. Ye needn't hurry. The lightning's
miles away yet, and there's no rain with this
wind.'

The six or eight fishermen halted, two of them
with more marked reluctance than the others,
and it was to these two that the next words were
addressed.

'You, Matthew Webb, and you, Richard
Trego, know what I'm going' to say. I hope you
were hurrying away to tell your wives you're
going' to help your fellow-men to-night. Yes,,
men — you, Ned Penned, you, Jarvis, you, Jack
Scenery — all of you — I speak to you as men, and

brave men ! who will come with me and help to
raise the warning to-night on the Beacon Cliff?
It's a matter of life and death, men,' he went on,
speaking more rapidly, and even fiercely, as if he
expected instant expostulation — ' a matter of
life and death ! Do you hear me, you 1 Do not
turn away like that. May the hand of God press
heavy on the heart of any man here who refuses
his help this wild night !'

You're a good man, Garth Trendall, but you
don't know what you're saying. What living
man in his senses would venture on to the Beacon
to-night, let alone the fact that worse is coming !
Could a strong man walk along the edge of the
cliff" just now, reckon ye? Yet you yourself
said a minute agone that this was going to bethe
worst night any of us had ever seen on the
coasts.'

The man who spoke was John Trendall, a
cousin of Garth. His words were followed by a
murmured sound of approval from the other men,
excepting Trego.

< Garth,' said the latter, * you know I would
do what I could to help you, even if you

wasn't my mate. But what can you or I, or a
dozen of us, do to-night ? Even if we could gain
the beacon in the black darkness, what warning
fire would the wind let be V

6 A single flash might save a ship, Richard.'
At this moment — for during the last few
minutes there had been a comparative lull — the
wind increased in volume, and broke upon the
little group with terrific force. There was a
noise in the air as if a thousand windmills were
whirling it into a chaos of tumult. The men
staggered as drunkards do when, coming out of
the blaze of the gin-palace, they find themselves
in darkness filled with rain and the noise of street
traffic. Even Garth Trendall was stunned and
dazed by the lightning and the dreadful crash
of the thunder. When he spoke again, he found
he had but one man for audience. All had hastily
disappeared, leaving Trego alone with his friend.
I will come with you, Garth,' said the man ;
< but God help us !'

'If you fear God's not helping us, Richard
Trego, stay at home. If not, what need have
you to fear anything?'

An hour later the two men had gained the
summit of the Beacon. Their strength had been
tasked to the utmost, for at times the path was
almost on the ledge of the steep ascent, and they
had to cling to it to prevent their being blown
back or over it. At last the summit was reached.
Some twelve yards from the ledge was a short
wall of solid stone, chiefly natural, but partly
artificial. Behind this, safely deposited, were
always kept logs of tarred wood, matches, a huge
pot of pitch, and other material of the kind. The
wall was so constructed as to afford shelter from
the south-west, west, and north-west to any
beacon that might be lit; and by the time that
flames would tower above the wall, small as it
was, there was little chance that even an unusually
fierce tempest would be able to beat
it out. Yet never was it lit with such
difficulty as on this night, even though little
rain fell on the kindled brushwood ; such rain as
there was being swept along in an almost
absolute level, as if it were born of the sea rather
than of the tempestuous clouds above. Still
the wind grew. It was now a hurricane, and

one that England had long bitter cause to remember.
At times the two men, away from the
shelter of the wall, gasped for air, or rather with
excess of it ; if they had thought of such a
thing at all, they might have realised what
manner of death it is that the fish dies when
taken out of its natural element. In a shout
that was as a fleeting whisper, Trego cried
out,

My God I Trendall, the wind will blow the
souls out of our bodies. The cliff slopes to a
hollow two or three hundred yards inland ; let's
make for it while we can !'

For a moment the man spoken to was tempted.
The flames had at last given sufficient message
far seaward. Would it be safe to leave them ?
His visible uncertainty decided Trego, who,
stooping and staggering, half ran and was half
blown out of the flame-lit gloom into the outer
darkness. Throwing on more logs, each dipped
in pitch, Trendall prepared to follow. He had
gone but a few yards when he was struck
to the ground as if by the stroke of a gigantic
wing — as, indeed, he was — by the wing of the

Angel of Tempest. As he fell he heard a
crash. He was not hurt, or stricken by lightning,
only mowed down by the wind ; and, ashe
looked about him in a sudden great dread,
he saw the last embers of the beacon whirled
away into the darkness like masses and flakes
of fiery snow. No hope now of lighting another
beacon, for that crash had been the falling in
of the upper part of the wall. Nor could
the man rise and flee inland as his comrade had
done, for the course of the central current
of the hurricane had shifted a point or two to
the west, and as effectually cut off his flight in
the perilous darkness as if a wall of stone had
intervened.

Then came the sudden opening in the clouds,
disclosing the single star ; then the falling of the
fiery meteor, luridly lighting up for a moment
the wild sea.

But it was not the gleam of the meteor
that made Garth Trendall spring to his feet
for the brief moment ere he was again dashed
to the ground. What he saw in the vanishing
light was a ship wildly rushing before the

awful gale — rushing, as he knew, to what was
inevitable destruction. In less than half an hour
in an even briefer space — all that would be
left of the vessel would be a mass of riven
timbers surging to and fro amidst the teeth-like
reefs of Conger Cove.

Garth Trendall never knew how he reached
St. Aphra that night. Men have been known to
climb steeples, to reach swaying mast-heads, todo
a dozen daring things as somnambulists —
accomplishing in their sleep what would be
impossible to them when awake. Somehow
he reached the base of the cliff in safety, and
with a speed excelling that in which he could
have done the feat in the broad light of a calm
day.

When he reached the base of the Beacon Cliff
he sank exhausted on the ground, but only for a
few moments. Drenched w T with the showers of
salt spray which dashed over him as he lay at the
mouth of the Slice, he was at the same time
revived thereby ; so that, shaking himself like
some great dog, he bounded to his feet again,
and ere long reached the village. He had little

need, however, to rouse the fishermen. What
man, woman, or child could sleep through that
awful night, when every moment the thunder
of the sea seemed to come nearer, and the roaring
and violence of the wind to become more
terrible ?

A group of some twenty men stood under the
shelter of Trendall's house. All were gloomily
anxious about the two missing men, for none
had seen the warning fire during the few
minutes it had blazed up, and they naturally
supposed that Trendall and Trego had found
the ascent impossible. Why, then, had they
not returned ? What did it mean ? That
last terrible lightning flash, what had it done ?

When old Ivo Marshall shouted out, ' The
wind's more to the westward, and it'll sweep
the path along the ledge like a scythe,' every
man there knew what he meant. If this surmise
were true, they knew what two shapeless
things were at this moment being churned
against the mutilating rocks which rise through
the furious trough of the sea below the
Beacon.

At this moment Garth Trendall flew past
them, unobservant in the darkness and his
haste that a group of dark figures was standing
at one side of his house. Haggard, drenched,
and with marks of blood on his face, no wonder
he was mistaken for his ghost, and that a
cry of horror rose from the fishermen. Garth
Trendall was dead, and his flying and affrighted
spirit had rushed past them as a warning of
worse evils to come ! A sudden scream rang
above the fury of the gale, and the men, not
knowing that it came from Mary Trendall asher
husband hurled back the door of his cottage,
would have become wholly demoralised had not
old Ivo Marshall recognised his daughter's
voice, and seen the sudden gleam of light issue
from the opened door, thus guessing that his
son-in-law had returned in the flesh and not
in the spirit.

Even while he shouted his assurances to
the men, the door again rapidly opened, and
Garth was in their midst.

'Men, from the top o' the Beacon I saw a
ship driving straight to destruction. She'll be

across the Conger Rocks any moment now. You
won't refuse to follow me now, men, after what
I've clone to-night? For God's sake, come
with me at once to the mouth of the Slice. The
ship's doomed, but in God's mercy some poor
souls may be washed within our reach. There's
rope and to spare at Webb's cottage. You'll
come, men V

Whether the speaker's determined spirit animated
each man there, or that the danger imminent
to the whole village touched their hearts to
a sudden enthusiasm, there was not one dissentient
voice among them.

Forcing their way against the gale, they
reached the shelter of the Beacon Cliff, which
here rose abruptly from the shore. They were
not a moment too soon. A flame-coloured
rocket sprang hup in front of them, and they
caught a glimpse of a never-to-be-forgotten
scene.

Yes, Garth Trendall had seen aright. It was
indeed a ship that he saw rushing on to inevitable
destruction. The meteor which had first

revealed it to the watcher on the Beacon Cliff
had also shown to the vessel's captain his imminent
clanger. As the meteor curved in its
descent he saw, to his horror, the dim outline
of distant cliffs. He knew what these meant,
for it was impossible to materially alter his
course. For ten minutes, which seemed to him
as ten years, he stood silent at his post, listening
intently. Doubtless the thought flashed through
his mind that what he had seen to leeward
might possibly be the Land's End,
and that he was facing right up channel ;
but if such a thought did cross his mind it
was soon dissipated. Despair came into his
face as his strained ears caught, above the
clamour of the wind shrieking through the
cordage and the tumult of the sea around, the
deep incessant boom of the ocean as it thundered
against the rocky barrier of the Cornish
mainland.

Rapidly wheeling about, he descended to the
cabin, and found some of the passengers clinging
to whatever they could lay their hands on.
He besought them to be calm, not because there

was thus much more chance of escape, but because,
as men and women, it behoved them to
submit to God's will.

'Is there then no hope?' asked one of the
passengers.

None,' was the answer ; « or rather there is
none for this ship. In God's mercy, some of us
may perchance reach the shore alive. As for
myself, I commend myself to His hands.'

There was no panic. Death was too near,
too certain, for this. Some prayed, others
lay in their berths in a strange stupor ; a few
spoke in awed whispers, and that saddest
of all words, Farewell! was breathed on
several lips. Once only a man laughed. It
sounded like the mockery of hell. Then,
with head thrown forward the same man gave
forth broken sobs, weeping wildly at he knew
not what, for the terror of his fate had upset
his reason.

The four men at the helm remained firm at
their post, though they knew what was coming.
The officers and some of the crew cut loose the
life buoys and everything that might ultimately

VOL. I. C

prove of service in the final struggle for life,
and on the forecastle the third mate stood ready
to send off the rockets. Up at last went the
great curves of fire, illuminating the scene round
as if an impenetrable curtain had for a moment
been drawn aside.

If hope lingered in any man's mind it died
out in that moment. In front loomed a sheer
wall of cliff, a little to the right of which lay a
spit of land covered with huge boulders, in
whose midst swung clouds of spray. Between
this background and the vessel rose a band of
pinnacled reefs, the billows seething round them
in masses of churned foam, like froth from the
gigantic teeth of some vast saurian. Even
while they held their breaths, the ship would be
among these ravening fangs !

This was the scene witnessed by the fishermen
of Conger Cove. Ere the light of the
rocket was expended, they saw the ship give
one wild bound, as if she consciously strove to
overleap the gaping jaws in front of her, only
the next moment to find herself in their midst,

pierced through with a dozen great wounds, and
already savagely mutilated and torn. Rocket
after rocket sprang up from the shoreward side
of the Slice, only serving to illuminate the
scene in front with fitful brilliance. The fishermen
could do nothing more, for there was now
no vessel into which any rope-bearing rocket
could be propelled. Alone, on the largest of the
Conger Rocks, hung a portion of the ship — so
battered, so shapeless a portion that even the experienced
eyes of men like Garth Trendall and
Ivo Marshall failed to identify what it was.
Some thought it was a portion of the poop,
others of the fore-deck. Keen-eyed Mat Webb
declared it to be the lower part of the mainmast,
with a mass of ropes and miscellaneous
wood-stuff.

No life could have been saved from such a
wreck, for no human being could be swept
straight thither from the Conger Rocks and
survive. The only chance for any unfortunate
lay in the possibility of some great billow
carrying the helpless body in the direction
of the Slice Point, thereafter sweeping it

(3 2

across the inlet on to the shoreward slope of
sand.

Every man there knew this, and was prepared
accordingly. Close upon twenty of them
linked themselves with each other by a strong
rope passed once round the waist, leaving about
a yard between each. The man at the seaward
end was more firmly secured, and allowed a
greater length of rope. This was the post of
greatest danger. The end-man was the grapnel
of this human chain — of him was required
the greatest strength, the greatest daring, the
greatest coolness — and, of course, this man Alas
Garth Trendall.

Ah ! A human body hurled into the cove on the
breast of a gigantic billow ! In with a sudden
rush sweeps the human chain, one heroic figure
battling strenuously with the fierce rush of water.

But suddenly right over Garth and his nearest
comrade impends a vast volume of water.
Crash ! the enormous billow whirls them from
their footing, and, stunned as they are, they
would be swept away or drowned where
they are did not the men on the shore and

the others close thereto make an immense effort,
and rescue their two comrades.

As for the body they had tried to save, it was
caught by the furious re-surge, and carried out
of the Slice again, never more to be seen of
mortal eye.

Another rocket. At the same moment what
looked like the keel of a small boat was hurled
through the cloud of spray which incessantly
hung above the entrance to Conger Cove, and
from it something white fell back, with two
arms wildly tossed into the air.

With renewed strength Garth and his men
dashed into the surging flood. The next great
wave came and swept both boat-hulk and body
within a few yards of them, but still beyond
Trendall's depth. A spring, two or three
mighty strokes, and he reached the body. Will
he be able to retain it in his grasp — will the
rope hold in the fierce re-surge? A little puny
human strength against the might of tempestuous
ocean — is it not impossible that it can
prevail ?

Yet a few moments later Garth Trendall lay

insensible on the shore, while clasped in his
arms was the almost wholly nude body of a
man.

CHAPTER I.

A MYSTERY.

Of the many fine mansions on the slopes of
the Sidlaw Hills, few are more noticeable than
Firnie Knowe. Built on the gradual incline of
one of the pleasantness spurs of this well-known
Forfarshire hill-range, it commands from its
windows one of the most extensive, and certainly
the loveliest, view obtainable within twenty
miles of Dundee. When Firnie Knowe and the
small estate attached to it passed away from the
family which had long been in possession, it was
purchased by a Mr. David Armitage, the head
of one of the leading shipping firms in Dundee.
At the time this story opens, Mr. David Armytage

had been dead about two years. A widower,
he had left only one son, who had for the last ten
years been a junior partner with his father and
his uncle, and who succeeded to full partnership,
as well as to all the private property left by his
father. Hew Armitage, though only thirty at
the time this event happened, had already made
himself a worthy representative of the famous
firm of Armitage Brothers, and was as universally
trusted and respected in the commercial world of
Dundee as he was liked and admired in the social
sphere in which he moved. Admirable men as
both his father and uncle had been, and as the
latter still was, neither had gone through
life as smoothly as they might have done, for
they had allowed commercial rivalry to breakup
more than one old family friendship. The
case where this was most regretted on both sides
was that in which the Cameronss of Duiart were
concerned.

David Armitage and Archibald Cameron had
been school companions, had sailed round the
world together, and had been associated in the
same firm, that of Cameron & Armitage. The

father of Archibald withdrew from the business
owing to a series of continuous misunderstandings
on certain technical points, and his son followed
suit, the two acting henceforth under the title
of Cameron & Son ; ultimately the old man
retired to his property of Duiart and there died.
The rivalry between the two great commercial
firms grew keener and keener, till at last nothing
but the most formal courtesy passed between
their representatives. At last it seemed as if
fate had decided against the house of Cameron,
for disaster after disaster succeeded with
startling rapidity, while a corresponding success
characterised the operations of Armitage
Brothers.

Mr. Cameron had two children, Charles Edward
and Mona, a difference of seven years existing between
the brother and sister. When the son was
in his twenty-second year he had found himself in
pecuniary difficulties, and one day an unpleasant
report was prevalent that young Cameron had
ruinously disgraced himself, and had left the
country precipitately. How the matter was
hushed up no outsiders ever knew, but from that

day Charles Edward Cameron was a stranger to
Dundee. As he was never by any chance seen at
Duiart either, it gradually became understood
that the young man had died abroad, a report
which seemed corroborated by the fact that
Mr. Cameron never voluntarily spoke of him,
and which became a settled truth when one
day the laird of Duiart said gravely to an old
acquaintance, who had asked him about his sod,
I have now no son.' This, succeeding the many
commercial disasters which had overtaken him,
induced Mr. Cameron to break up his business and
retire on such means as he had ; and it was among
the chief pleasures of his later life that David
Armitage had sought his friendship again, though
the resumption of the acquaintance was not
to last long, owing to the intervention of
death.

It was some two or three weeks after his
father's death, that Hew Armitage rode over to
Duiart, on the western side of the Sidlaws, to
return in person his thanks to Mr. Cameron for
many recent kind attentions. There, for the first
time for a period of five or six years, he saw Miss

Cameron. Instead of a slight and somewhat
awkward school-girl whom he remembered, he
now saw a tall and handsome woman, who combined
all the charm of girlishness with the grace
and dignity of womanhood; and it was with a
new and strange feeling at his heart that he rode
away that day. His visits became frequent, and
a strong friendship sprang np between the two
men, while it became noticeable to every one,
except perhaps to Mr. Cameron, that if the
young man had an extreme regard for his
daughter, the feeling was reciprocal on the part
of the latter. Some months passed, during
which Mona's father visibly declined in bodily
and mental health ; but one day in the early
summer Hew met the woman he loved as he
rode through Duiart wood, and then and there
gained her promise to be his wife. When
they reached home they found that Mr. Cameron
had had a very severe apoplectic seizure, from
which it was almost impossible he could wholly
recover. The old man lingered on a few days,
however ; and before his death had the pleasure
of knowing that his daughter's happiness was

assured, so far as it was possible to foresee.
Having made her promise that his death was
not to interfere with her speedy marriage, he
sank back on his pillow with a lon^sigh of relief,
and breathed no more. M

Three months later Mona Cameron and Hew
Armitage became man and wife, and for a year
thereafter realised to the full all the happiness
they had hoped for. It is here that we catchup
more minutely the threads of then' lives.
Smoothly the threads of life may lie in parallel
directions, but at any moment they may be
blown far apart, or become inextricably entangled
with others of malign fortune.

A year had passed, and yet they had no child,
a matter which flBftd in no way have troubled
Mr. Armitage hawse not seen that something
was fretting hiqL~yife, the cause of which he
could only attribute to this fact. Yet when a
little later it became certain that his wife had
assured hope of becoming a mother, he found to
his surprise and regret that her depression and
nervousness seemed only to intensify. At times

be found her in tears, and once, as he entered
her little private room suddenly, he saw her
hastily thrust what looked like a letter into her
desk, and immediately lock the latter, turning to
him with flos which became red and pale by
turns. Naturally, he anxiously sought to find
out from her what cause she had for these frequent
states of dejection, but his wife only
laughed at him gently, urging that he did not
understand women, and that she had always
been subject to attacks of melancholy. He w^s *
far from satisfied, but questioned her no further,
especially as she seemed to become more like
her old self again. He had imagined that the
trouble arose from some pl^ical cause, and
felt greatly relieved by the cowed change for
the better. &i

He had loved his wife wli^Wshe was 5 Mona
Cameron. His love had deepened and strengthened
in the past year, till now, though he per I
laps did not consciously so formulate it, she
was to him everything that the sap is to the tree
energy, life-joy, life itself. But even in his

32 THE SPORT OF CHANCE.

deep affection he was reticent, and if Mona
missed anything in his love, it was something of
that happy lightness, that joyous trifling, without
which love is sure to suffer, mayhap even
perish, through its own intensity.

Returning late one summer afternoon from
Dundee, Hew Armitage, as he rode slowly towards
Firnie Knowe from the small station at
which he had alighted, seemed buried in
thought. He had cause for this, for he had recently
lost a large sum of money through a
mysterious forgery — a forgery so dexterous that
not only the cashiers of the bank but his own
accountant and chief clerk had been deceived,
and he himself had found it impossible to point
out any deviation from the formation of the
letters in his customary signature. He had not
the faintest reason to suspect anyone, and the
most rigid inquiry, both by himself and efficient
detectives, had failed to elicit anything to clear
up the mystery. The teller at the bank who
had cashed the cheque had recently been
appointed to his post from a small branch-mastership,
and had as yet but a limited expel

MYSTERY. 33

rieuce of his new work. His information, so far
as it went, only amounted to this — that on such
and such a day, about the busiest hour, a gentleman
had presented a cheque for two thousand
pounds, the cheque bearing the well known
signature, in Mr. Hew Armitage's hand, of ' Armitage
Brothers ;' that he had verified it with
the signature-book, and had, in addition, said to
a neighbouring teller in passing that he supposed
it was all right, though it was a large amount
for an c open ' cheque ; and that the latter had
replied that the firm in question had on several
occasions hitherto granted cheques ' to bearer '
for considerable sums. So far as he could recollect,
he added, the payee was a man of about
five feet ten in height, slightly built, and,
though darkly and heavily bearded, not giving
the impression of more advanced age than
thirty-five, or thirty-eight at most. No one else
seemed to have noticed the presenter of the
cheque, and even Mr. Anderson, the teller, said
he could not swear to minute particulars, and
that even as to his height he might be mistaken,
while lie had some doubt as to whether he could
VOL. I. D

with certainty recognise the man if he met him
elsewhere — and this in great part from the fact
that during the few hurried moments in which
the stranger was at the counter he had leaned
well over the blotting-pad beside the paying-desk,
apparently immersed in arithmetical calculations.


Two important matters of detail remained to
be elucidated. One was the number of the
cheque. In the teller's books it was entered as
x09,915, and the date of the draft was 10th of
June, while the last form drawn from the
cheque-book of the firm, dated 12th of June,
was numbered x09,912, and it was ascertained
that during the checking of the books the clerk
had not noticed the discrepancy. On examination,
it was found that draft-form No. x09,915
was missing from the cheque-book, and that,
in addition, No. x09,933 had been removed,
in both instances with the portion used for
memoranda of the payee and the amount, but
so skilfully that the abstraction could only have
been noticed by examination. When, where,

and by whom could this abstraction have taken
place ?

Up to the day of inquiry, Mr. John Armitage
had been absent on a visit to the Baltic ports,
and his nephew had had entire control of the
financial as well as the other departments of the
business; it had so happened that, owing to
a slightly-sprained ankle, Hew had been unable
to leave Firnie Knowe for some days, and that
he had transacted necessary business in the
morning-room there, a pleasant room opening
by French windows on to a lawn that sloped
upwards to the edge of the fir-wood which lay
behind the house. In an escritoire there he had
kept his cheque-books and many private papers,
but had on no occasion noticed anything out of
order, though he believed he had once or twice
left the key standing in the lock of the folding
shelf. On being questioned if he had not
signed the cheque which had been presented, or
left it otherwise unfilled up, and perhaps lying
loose in his open escritoire, he replied most
decidedly in the negative, adding that lie ind



variably filled up the side-slip before writing out
any draft ; that he never did such a thing as put
his signature to any cheque till it had otherwise
been definitely filled up ; and that, moreover, he
had put his name to no business draft on the 10th,
and only to two on his private account, both of
which had been duly presented and cancelled.
During the few days he had been confined to
the house, no one had been within it except the
doctor and the confidential clerk, who came out
daily for instructions, and neither the one nor
the other had ever been in the room in question
alone.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Armitage had complete
trust in their servants, but, of course, the most
thorough and searching inquiry was gone into
by the detective employed, yet without discovery
of the faintest clue, and without leaving
the shadow of suspicion on anyone in Firnie
Knowe. The detective even (unknown to Mr.
Armitage) gathered everything he could about
the lady of the house, but, of course, with no
result. He did not even find out that the most
ordinary household bills were unpaid. All this

was very perplexing, and the inquiry was still
further baffled by the discovery that the notes
in which the greater part of the two thousand
pounds were paid had been exchanged for
gold, partly at another bank in Dundee, but
mainly at two of the chief establishments in
Edinburgh.

A week passed, and there was as yet no
clue to the forgery. Hew Armitage did not
know, as he rode homeward this evening, that
a few hours previously Mr. Gavin, the detective,
had expressed his opinion to the bank-manager
that the cheque was not a forgery at all as regards
the signature, but that the duly signed open
cheque had been torn from the book at some
favourable opportunity by some one in the house,
and that the writing of the sum and the date and
the figures had been filled in by some outside
accomplice. Mr. Armitage, they both knew,
utterly disbelieved this idea, but at the instance
of the manager of the bank Mr. Gavin agreed to
concentrate his energies on the task of finding
out who in the house was the guilty person, a
decision, it was agreed, which was not to be communicated

to Mr. Armitage. Of course every
possible precaution was taken wherewith to
checkmate such a contingency as the presentation
of cheque No. x09,933.

As Mr. Armitage reached the lodge at the south
gate of his property he met an under-groom, and
as he felt inclined to take a short stroll he dismounted
and gave his horse to the man to take
home. A long avenue of beech, ash, and silver
birch led towards the house, but within a couple
of hundred yards thereof it forked, the left
branch being the avenue proper, and the right a
path which first skirted the garden and then led
up to and through the fir-wood behind. It
was along the latter that Mr. Armitage proceeded.


This mysterious forgery troubled him greatly,,
and he was even beginning to feel that he would
willingly pay an additional sum to what he had
already lost if only the matter could be satisfactorily
elucidated. He felt certain that none
of the servants was guilty, judging thus
not only from the total absence of circumstantial
evidence, but also from his own exceptionally

keen insight into character. Still more assured
was he that he had not signed the cheque, so
that the question arose, was the draft forged in
the house as well as abstracted % Whenever this
reflection crossed Armitage's mind, it was accompanied
by the vague uneasiness already referred
to. Who in his household could have the ability
to do such a thing ? Certainly no one except
his wife, and she, of course, was out of the
question.

Loud and clear a thrush sang out. It was
answered by another at a distance, and the
sweet double tremor quivered through the green
leaves, as if two happy sunbeams had taken voice
to themselves, and sang as they flickered to and
fro through the woodland. The young man
stopped and listened. Something in the wild,
free song touched him, or perhaps something
therein in special sympathy with the peace of the
lovely June afternoon. From the firs beyond
Firnie Knowe came a soft, sibilant sound, as the
ring-doves cooed incessantly to each other; and
at intervals the harsh scream of a jay or whistling
cry of the sparrow-hawk came as pleasant discords

in the general harmony. He sighed at he
knew not what, and a happy thought came into
his mind of his fair wife, and of the deep love he
bore her and that united them so strongly. His
vague, undefined apprehension left him, but once
more his thoughts returned to this mysterious
forgery.

Again and again returned the same endless
conjectures associated with the same personages
— Johnson, the butler ; Macdermott, the
coachman ; Maxwell, the under-groom, and so
forth through all the servants, from the lodge-keeper
and gardeners to the youngest in the
house — on no one of them could the faintest
suspicion rest with any shadow of reason. If he
allowed any doubt to influence his judgment at
all, it was in the case of Maxwell, the under-groom,
who had been at Firnie Knowe only six
months, and of whose antecedents he knew comparatively
little ; yet the lad had come to him
with a thoroughly good character, and had given
entire satisfaction throughout his present engagement,
and Hew Armitage's strong sense of justice
prevented his letting any real suspicion rest on

the young man. Then he recalled all who had
been in his house within the last month— Dr.
Steele, the Rev. James Gilray, Browne the
confidential clerk, and one or two friends
who had made a passing call — each and all of
them wholly beyond suspicion, even if they had
never been in his house during the period in
question save in the presence of himself or his
wife.

Armitage had in his slow stroll passed the
north end angle of the garden, and was about
to enter the well-known and very beautiful fir-wood
which gave the name to his property.
A sudden faint but pitiful squealing attracted
his attention. Going to the edge of the meadow,
he saw at a glance what had caused the
sounds he had heard. An unfortunate rabbit
had wandered too far a-field, and while browsing
there upon some delicate green food had
become aware of the presence of its deadliest
enemy. Probably it was as much smell as sight,
aided, perhaps, by an exceptionally keen instinct
of fear, that had warned it of the stealthy approach
of a stoat.

As Armitage watched, he caught occasional
glimpses of a small greyish animal, almost
serpentine in its stealthy gliding movement.
When within about ten yards of the rabbit it
stopped, as if it were gathering energy for a
long swift leap, or as if calculating whether
the right moment had arrived or not — for,
curiously enough, if the stoat or weasel should
miss at the outset, the spell seems to be broken,
and in an agony of desperation the prey occasionally
escapes. The rabbit seemed to be
panting hard, but uttered no sound ; then,
suddenly, it sprang to its feet once more and rana
few yards, when its strength apparently
collapsed, and it crouched upon a low mound of
grass and began that pitiful squealing which
is so painful to listen to. In absolute silence,
as far as the listener could hear, not even
rustling the grass as it glided onward, closer and
closer drew the stoat ; then, like an arrow,
it shot forward, gave one bite with its long-narrow
teeth just behind the ear, and the rabbit
was dead.

Armitage had never witnessed anything of the

kind before, and the incident affected him
strangely. He knew that rabbits frequently-met
with their death in this manner, yet there
seemed to him something horrible in what he
had just witnessed, as if he had been spectator
of a real tragedy that had taken place in the
security and beauty of the peaceful midsummer
afternoon.

The wish to stroll through the fir-wood now
left him, so he branched off from the central
path by a smaller and little frequented one that
led to a tiny summer-house built, so far as the
eye could see, of fir cones; from this again
ran a by-path in the direction of a practically
disused entrance to the gardens of
Firnie Knowe. The fir-needles of past seasons
covered the path like a soft and yielding carpet,
whereon it was a luxury to tread with noiseless
footsteps. Not since the early spring
had Hew and his wife been there, though
they frequently strolled along some of the
numerous other paths that wandered aimlessly
hither and thither through the wood; so
beautiful did it seem this afternoon, that the

former wondered he did not oftener pursue it,
mentally adding that he and Mona must make it
their goal when next they should wander
through the wood together.

There was no wind, and just enough of sultriness
to make the air heavy with fragrance, in
which the keenest odour was that of the new-mown
hay in some meadows not far distant.
How like a nightingale's was that thrush's note,
yet how much richer and more passionate, if not
so electrically thrilling ! As Hew stopped to
listen, and then turned to resume his walk, a
trailing branch of honeysuckle came in contact
with his face ; how sweet the scent was, how
delicate yet so keen, how suggestive of summer
and of deep shady hedges wherein robins, wrens,
sedge-warblers, woodlarks, and a host of other
birds twittered in the grateful coolness. Only
a spray of honeysuckle, which indeed Hew
Armitage barely consciously noticed ; yet winch
entered into his mind as absolutely as might any
important detail. Years afterwards no sudden
odour of the honeysuckle could reach him but
he instantly remembered this spray whose fragrance
now filled the air round him.

As be stood inhaling its scent, ere he
thrust it aside, he heard voices issue from the
little summer-house in front of him. He was
startled into surprise, for he had never known
his wife come to the wood alone ; yet who could
it be except Mona, and, if so, to whom was she
speaking? He smiled as he caught himself
mentally asking these questions, thinking that
he was indeed becoming morbid and suspicious
if he could not hear his wife's voice in her own
grounds without being startled.

At that moment two figures issued from the
summer-house — Mona, and a gentleman whom
Hew had not an opportunity to recognise by
features, for the two had not looked backward,
but, deep in apparently earnest conversation,
had proceeded along the half-effaced, struggling
by-path in the direction of the high garden wall.
A strange repugnance to intrude his presence
upon them prevented Armitage from letting
them know that he was there, so as soon as they
had disappeared behind the first turning he
entered the summer-house, and sat down by
the little round white-painted table at whose

ugliness he and Mona had laughed when they
first saw it, but which had been allowed to remain
in its pristine condition.

Why he thus acted Armitage would have
found it difficult to tell. All he admitted to himself
was that he did not then feel inclined to
talk to strangers, and that he did not even care
to know whom the visitor was. Confound this
forgery business ! would he never get it out of
his mind ? No, he would not let his mind dwell
on the subject for the present ; he had worried
enough about it already. So he sat on the
rough, cane-worked seat with his legs stretched
out, his eyes fixed on the patch of blue sky that
shone amidst the leaves of a giant ash in front
of the summer-house, and his ears alert to the
hum of the grey gnats and the subdued, monotonous
boom of a drowsy honey-bee as it swung
heavily inside a tall blue campanula.

Suddenly he determined to conquer this unusual
listlessness that had overtaken him, and
to join his wife and her friend. He had risen
half-way with this intent when his eye caught
a curious slur on the white, sloping edge of

the little table. It had been caused by some
pencilling having been partially effaced, but
not sufficiently so to prevent the letters being
readable. It had, moreover, evidently been
recently done, for a few dusty particles of lead
still lay at the end of the smudge. Scrutinizing
the writing, Hew was at once surprised and
startled to perceive that the letters were those
of his own signature — startled for what reason
he did not permit himself to say, and surprised
because he knew it was a considerable time
since he had been in the summer-house, and
because he had no recollection of having scribbled
his name on the ledge of the table or anywhere
else. For a moment he felt sick with the
same vague apprehension that had so often
troubled him of late, but the next he was again
stooping over the table and examining his
signature. Blurred as it was, it was too exactly
his to doubt its genuineness, the only point of
divergence he noticed being the absence of the
dot it was his custom to insert between his
baptismal and his surname, thus — Hew . Armytage.
But this might, as an occasional instance,

have been omitted, or the dot might have been
there, but have been wholly obliterated. He
felt strangely interested in this signature. Taking
out a letter from his pocket which he had
forgotten to post, he opened the envelope and
compared his name as written there with that
on the table-ledge. They were identical, save
for the slight exception referred to. No, it could
not have been — ? it could not have been any
other than himself; yet strange that by no
mental effort could he recall the fact.

And what on earth has it got to do with that
cursed forgery?' he muttered to himself; and
yet he illogically enough felt relieved when
he further realised that he inscribed the name of
Armitage differently when signing for the firm
than when writing for himself. It was hardly
possible that anyone he had ever met could successfully
forge his signature, both as 'Hew
Armitage ' and as ' Armitage Brothers.' But
again, if he had written his signature here a
long time ago, how came it to look so recent ?
Ah, he must have been mistaken about there
having been lead-dust still lying about, as if a

very soft or newly-sharpened pencil had been
used. Look, there was not a vestige of it now
to be seen ! But again, who had endeavoured
to rub it out — for such an endeavour
was apparently pointed to by the smear showing
signs of having been rubbed backward
as well as forward. Whoever had meant to rub
it out, might have done it thoroughly, thought
Armitage — unless, perhaps, the person had been
interrupted.

Oh, well, let it be,' he said aloud to himself,
there's enough to worry one without puzzling
over useless conundrums.'

Walking quickly along the by-path, he in a
few minutes gained a turning whence a glimpse
could just be had of the moss-stained door
which has already been referred to as a seldom-used
entrance to the gardens. Mechanically
glancing in its direction he was astonished at
what he saw. He was not surprised to perceive
that his wife and the visitor had only just then
reached that distance, for they had walked away
very slowly, and he had not really been more
than a few minutes in the summer-house ; nor

VOL. I. K

did it at the time strike him as strange that
they should apparently be returning by a practically
never used entrance, but he was indeed
astonished to see Mona suddenly disappear
through the doorway, while her friend turned
and retraced his footsteps in the direction of the
wood.

Yet the two men did not meet, for the visitor
took one of the little paths that here branched
off in all directions. At a considerable distance
Hew heard the footsteps as they occasionally
trampled over small crackling branches. ' I'm
tired of puzzling,' he again muttered, and then
walked rapidly homeward, intending to reach
the house by the same garden entrance through
which his wife had passed from his sight. Ina
few minutes he was alongside of the great
brown wall, on the other side of which hung, in
the autumn, long narrow dardanelles and
golden-toned peaches ; but, to his chagrin — he
found the door locked.

Turning, he skirted the wall for a distance of
about a hundred yards, and then gained entrance
by what was known as the under-gardener's

door. When he reached the house, he found his
wife in her room. The question as to who had
been her visitor was on the tip of his tongue,
but something made him refrain and wait till
Mona volunteered the information, which, he did
not doubt, would be very shortly. About ten
minutes passed, and she made no remark bearing
on the visit of anyone. The dinner-bell rang,
and then through a dull, and on one side at any
rate, wearisome repast, not the faintest reference
was made to the matter which was so occupying
Armitage's mind. He felt strangely constrained,
and even cold, to his wife ; but, determined
not to misjudge her in any way, he
afforded her more than one opportunity to state
naturally what had occurred. A foolish pride
prevented his telling her how he had seen her
and her acquaintance in the wood, lest she
should think he had been watching her suspiciously.
Yes, she had taken a stroll this
afternoon ; yes, it had been in the wood ; no, no
visitor ' had called upon us.' This was all Hew
learned.

Strangely enough, what he lay dreamily

e2

LIBRARY

Universal OF ILLINOIS

thinking of on his bed that night was not of the
mysterious forgery, nor of the writing in the
summer-house, nor of his wife's unaccountable
reticence: what kept possession of his mind
was the incident of the stoat and the rabbit.
When at last he fell asleep, the same scene
pursued him in his dreams. And then it came,
by some freak of vagrant fancy, that the
rabbit seemed to him Mona, and the stoat
the person he had seen her with ; and when he
heard again the pitiful squealing he awoke,
and by his side heard his wife crying in her
sleep.

CHAPTER II.

A PUZZLING INCIDENT.

Next morning Hew told his wife that she must
have been dreaming, for he had heard her crying
in her sleep. Mona's large dark-blue eyes distended
as with sudden fear, and in the expression
of her pale face there was the expectancy of one
who momentarily awaits news of painful import.
But her husband only glanced at her, and said
nothing further on the subject. She seemed to
endeavour to shake off her apprehension or depression,
whichever it might be, and to be even
more affectionate than usual to Hew, and he prepared
to leave Firnie Knowe for Dundee. Even
if he had harboured any misgivings regarding

his wife's conduct, it would have been
impossible to do so in her presence, for Mona was
one of those women in whose eyes seem to dwell
the very spirit of truth.

Hew Armitage had passed an almost sleepless
night, for after having been awakened by the
sound of his wife's subdued weeping he had lain
silent but thoughtful till a cold, grey light gradually
absorbed the shadows in their bed-room,
and he knew that the dawn had come at
last.

Rising gently, he had crossed the room, and,
having partially raised the blind, discovered that
a soft rain was falling, and as he looked he felt,
through the partially opened window, a breath of
fragrance wafted in from the wet lilac-bushes
that grew underneath. Thereafter, from his bed
he lay watching the sky losing its pallor and becoming
slowly vivified, as it were, though for
long no positive hue permeated it from the advent
of the sun.

Even the acutest pain becomes subdued at
this mystic hour of dawn — mysterious because of
its subtle influence — which not only affects

man, but the whole animal and vegetable
world. And if the disturbing reflections that
chased each other through Hew Armitage's mind
did not depart and leave him in peace, they at
any rate seemed to become more shadowy, more
speculative, more as if they were in connection
with some strange event that interested while it
did not at all materially affect the thinker. The
soft, wavering flush which preludes the dawn of
a fine day came and went. The morning-star
paled like a lamp whose flame grows attenuated,
and high in the steel-blue heaven hung the waning
moon in a crescent of the most delicate opal.
Then a wave of crimson and wild-rose pink
suffused the east, the light of day aroused all
the birds, and the first beam of the rising sun
stole into the room and lit up the golden-tinted
hair of Mona. How beautiful she looked,
thought her husband; at this moment she
seemed to him like an angel, with her delicate
pale face retaining some faint dream-smile, and
the sunlit hair forming a halo to the youthful
head. Even as he looked she sighed, and put
one hand to the white breast over which a few

wavy tresses strayed, as if her heart were
troubled by some sad and weary thought. Hew
noticed the movement, and sighed also as he
turned and watched the advancing sunrise. Not
far from the window a girl passed to her dairy-work,
singing as she went. A little later he
heard the voices of the mowers as they met on
the wide-sloping lawn in front ; and then came
the long swish of the scythes as they swept
through the dewy grass, a music monotonous
but drowsily pleasant. The sharp, keen cries
of the blackbirds as they jerked along the
ground, the chattering of the starlings, the
twittering of the busy house-sparrows and the
swallows under the eaves, the high, clear song
of a mavis as he swayed upon a bough of fragrant
lilac, and shrilly above them all the rapturous
rivalry of two or three larks — of all these,
as well as of the poignant pervading sweetness
of the new-mown hay, Hew was dreamily
cognizant.

At last he determined to rise and enjoy a
stroll before breakfast, though he did not permit
definite expression of the real intention which

lay deeper in his mind. Mona did not awake
with his absence, or at any rate not until after
he had left his dressing-room. By the time
she did open her eyes, to find the broad daylight
in the room, and Hew not by her side, the
latter was in Firnie Wood, and on his way to
the little summer-house.

When he had left the house he crossed the
gardens, walked through the rosery, the fruit
gardens, and the apple orchard, and then along
some marrow and cucumber beds, and past three
or four disused forcing-houses till he reached the
door by which Mona had entered the previous
day. It was locked, certainly, but the key was
on the inside. Heavily rusted over, it evidently
was rarely used, and seldom if ever removed
from its present position. Turning it, Hew
found himself on the little vagrant by-path,
now crossed every here and there by the pendulous
webs of the garden spider, wherein
the dewdrops glistened like diamonds in veils
of gossamer ; these he noticed, and a small
green beetle that kept incessantly alighting
and then winging onward before his advancing

steps — but nothing else consciously, for his
mind was again occupied with puzzling over
the origin of the signature he had so unexpectedly
discovered in the summer-house. Arriving
at the latter, he at once stooped over the
little table, but — there was not a vestige of the
signature to be seen !

Armitage now felt thoroughly puzzled.
Surely all this about his signature in pencil
on the ledge of this table was a dream, he
thought ; yet no, the incident of the previous
day was too memorably real. He could not
have merely dreamt about it, yet now there was
absolutely no trace of the writing, though from
the knowledge of the exact spot where he had
seen it he fancied he could perceive a slight
darkening, as if the vanished signature had
left behind it its almost invisible shadow.
What could it mean, and what, also, was the
significance of the fact that, while Armitage
looked puzzled, his expression had lost its late
look of apprehension ! What was the shadow
of fear that had passed away from his mind ?
But the only thought he formulated was that

his wife had not been out of his sight since the
previous evening, and that therefore she could
not have been in the summer-house since he
had last visited it ; but even the rapid formulation
of this thought startled him.

Heaven knows what I might have allowed
myself to imagine,' he muttered ; but his face
cleared as he did so, and he set himself with
renewed energy to the consideration of the
puzzling matter before him.

After all, he reflected, had the signature
necessarily been removed by anyone % Might
its absence not be accounted for by the rain
which had fallen during the night, whose
soft plash-plash amongst the lilacs he had
heard that morning before dawn? On the
table lay in slight indentations two little
pools, and the whole surface was wet and
shiny with the drops that had fallen from the
badly-constructed roof. True, the ledge, or
rather the portion of it in which Armitage was
interested, was dry, but it might have been
quite a channel for an overplus of raindrops.
Yes, it was quite likely, he argued,

that the rain had washed the signature
away, though it was curious that a slight
pencilled twirl of a characterless description,
close to where the former had been, remained
intact.

He turned to leave the summer-house, self-convinced
as regarded the disappearance of
the signature, and, if not quite at rest about
the genuineness of the original inscription, at
least willing to let the matter drop from his
consideration for the moment, or until after he
had heard something elucidatory from his
wife.

As he passed out, something cracked under
his feet, and, looking down, he saw an object
which he at once picked up. It was a slim and
short cedar-wood pencil, such as is frequently
partially enclosed in a silver setting or case. It
did not belong to him, nor did he recognise it
as Mona's, but probably, he thought, it did
belong to her.

By the time breakfast was over, Mona had made
no remark about her visitor. Hew's horse was
brought to the door, for he generally rode over

the three or four miles that intervened between
Firnie Knowe and the nearest railway-station ;
and his wife had just kissed him a brief goodbye,
when he turned to her with a question
which, with all his effort to speak naturally,
fell in a constrained tone upon Mona's sensitive
ear.

1 By-the-by, dear, when were you and I last
in the little summer-house in the wood — you
know the one I mean ; that built of fir-cones
V

Why, Hew, I — I — really don't remember.
Wait a bit— let me see ! Why, yes, I recollect
now ; it was in February last, a Sunday,
for don't you remember it was the first real
day of spring, and we were enticed thither
from the wood through hearing a robin singing
sweetly V

Mona spoke with rapid emphasis, as if eager
only to recall to his remembrance the day in
question, but her husband noticed how pale she
had suddenly grown when he asked her the
question, and how the swift colour still came and
went.

You are sure that was the last time, Mona V

< Yes, Hew.'

It's very strange,' muttered the latter below
his breath ; then ; speaking aloud, said that he
might be home later than usual, as he had
something to attend to that was worrying him
greatly just now.

What is it, dear, if I may ask ! Anything
wrong in business, or is it some personal matter
that is worrying you?'

I will tell you another time, Mona, but now
I must be off;' and with these words Armitage
rode away, for the first time since his marriage
forgetting to wave his hand to his wife ere he became
lost to sight owing to a turning of the long
beech-avenue. The latter noticed this omission,
and the tears rose to her eyes, only to be checked,
however, in a moment, as she called to mind
what Hew had just said relative to something
that was specially engrossing his attention.

When Armitage reached his office he found Mr.
Gavin, the detective, awaiting him. As yet, the
latter declared, he had not obtained anything
satisfactory as a clue, and, by some remark he

dropped, Hew inferred that the detective considered
that he would be able to assist him
materially.

He had fully intended to tell the officer not
only about the matter of the signature on the
ledge of the summer-house table, but also about
the finding of the pencil. However, he decided
not to mention the latter fact just then, at any
rate.

Slowly and circumstantially he put the matter
before Mr. Gavin, in whose eyes twinkled a
momentary gleam of triumph, as if some unexpressed
speculation of his was a foregone
conclusion.

Have you any opinion on what I have just
told you, Mr. Gavin V

'Well, sir, I never go upon the plan of saying
what I think about anything till I feel quite sure
my opinion is based on something reliable. But
I would like to ask you again if you are quite
certain that you never wrote that signature
within, say, the last month ; also, if you have,
within the last few months, written to your wife
any note signed with your name in full V

As to your first question, I can answer you
most decisively that to my certain knowledge
I did not write the signature in question within
the last month or two months, whatever I may
possibly have done earlier. As to your second
query, I would like to know why you ask it V

Oh, simply, Mr. Armitage, because if you had
written such a note, your wife might by chance
have left it lying about, or accidentally mislaid
it, or perhaps thrown it in the waste-paper basket
and thus, of course, it might have got into
hands that had no business with it.'

4 Well, Mr. Gavin, all that I can say is that,
while I have undoubtedly written short notes to
Mrs. Armitage when I have been from Firnie
Knowe for a day or taro, I have no recollection
of signing any with my name in full.'

After the detective had gone, Hew felt somewhat
ashamed that he had not told about the
pencil he had found. Why had he not done so ?
He did not know, nor did he attempt to explain
the fact even to himself.

In the meantime it was agreed that the
matter of the forgery was to be kept as quiet

as possible — above all, that it should not be
allowed to get into the papers. Armitage had
just arranged ,this with the bank-manager
when, as he was leaving, he again encountered
Mr. Gavin, who seemed glad to see him
accidentally, profiting by the opportunity to
ask him if every one in Firnie Knowe knew
of inquiries having been made about Maxwell,
the under-groom, and one or two others.

No,' replied Hew, ' I do not think anyone
in my house has the least suspicion that anything
is wrong. Even my wife is quite ignorant
of the forgery, though by my inquiries she
may have thought I had mislaid a cheque, which
she probably soon imagined 1 had found, as she
made no subsequent remark.'

As the speaker went down the bank steps, the
detective looked after him, a momentary glance
of pity in his shrewd grey eyes, while under his
breath he muttered,

None so blind as them as won't see.'

The engrossing matters of detail of an exceptionally
busy day kept Armitage from
thinking about the forgery, and everything

VOL. I. F

connected with it ; but when he got home
that evening he remembered his intention to
ask Mona about the pencil. Their physician
and friend, Dr. Steele, had dropped in to
dinner — a customary thing for him to do, ashe
lived close at hand. After the two gentlemen
had finished their cigars in the smoking-room,
they joined Mrs. Armitage on the
verandah in order to have their coffee in her
company ; and while there a letter was brought
to Hew, after reading which, he asked his
wife in a low tone for her pencil, as if he were
desirous of making some memoranda. Mona at
once detached a silver pencil-case from her
watch-chain and handed it to him.

With a start which he could not quite conceal,
Hew discovered that it was devoid of the pencil
it was constructed to contain. Hastily making
some remark to the effect that he would be
back in a minute or two, he went into the
dining-room, and taking from his pocket the
cedar-wood pencil he had found in the summerhouse,
he adjusted it to the silver case. It
fitted exactly. Looking closer at the pencil, he

noticed a small scratch in the upper part of ita
scratch that had evidently been worn by
frequent moving to and fro ; and immediately
afterwards he perceived in the case itself a
tiny jag in the metal, the probable cause of
the scratch in question. To make sure (and
Armitage now acted in a perfectly calm and
deliberate manner, and just as if he were
interested in solving some trifling perplexity),
he opened his penknife and pared down a pencil
of his own till it exactly fitted Mona's case,
and then, having rendered its surface quite
smooth, he inserted it. When he had satisfied
himself that it fitted as if made for the case,
he pressed the small knob on the outside,
and caused the pencil to project as far as it
could, repeating the performance two or three
times. On withdrawing the pencil, he found
it scratched in a manner slighter, but otherwise
identical with the one belonging to his
wife.

There is a time in some lives when it
seems as if a sudden breath of age had obliterated
the bloom of maturity; and there

p 2

are also occasions when this strange, anticipatory
blight descends for a few terrible
moments, only to pass away again, leaving no
perceptible shadow. Thus was it with Hew
Armitage. For some moments — not fleeting
seconds, as measured by the agony of the man's
heart — the blight of age seemed to come down
upon him. His face, reflected in a mirror, caught
his gaze, and he looked at it fixedly, seeing there
the face of a man with a haggard aspect, and
eyes in which some great grief not so much
brooded as lived. But with compressed lips he
fought down some agonising doubt, and by sheer
vigour of exceptionally robust moral fibre conquered
that shadowy surmise which had sprung
almost into full and deadly embodiment. With
such conquest there must have emanated some
invisible spiritual radiance which banished the
gloom that had a few moments before darkened
and furrowed his face, for, when Hew stepped
out on to the verandah again, neither Mona nor
Dr. Steele saw reason to take notice of any
appearance of weariness or illness, though the
former did [let her eyes dwell lovingly on her

husband's face, noticing there, with the quick
sight of wifely affection, what a beauty occasionally,
as at this moment, illuminated Hew's somewhat
stern features.

1 Mona dear, your pencil was not of much
use to me, for it only consisted r of the silver
case. You must have dropped the pencil itself
somewhere.'

i Oh, yes, of course I did. How stupid of me
to forget. I think I must have dropped it yesterday
when I was out for a stroll, for in the
evening I missed it when I wanted to mark a
passage in a book I was reading.'

Perhaps this was it : I found it in my pocket
just now, having evidently transferred it from
my other waistcoat.'

'Yes, it is; I'm glad you've found it, Hew.
It belonged to dear papa, though I doubt if he
ever used it. But where did you find it, for I
looked for it quite anxiously V

'I found it in the summer-house yesterday,
lying below the little table. I had dismounted
at the lodge and strolled up through the
wood, and something or other allured mo along

the by-path that leads to the summer-house.
By-the-by, Steele, did you ever know how poor
Bunny meets his death at the hands, or rather at
the teeth, of the weasel-kind?' And Armitage
went on to narrate the incident of the rabbit
and the stoat, which had so much impressed him
the previous day.

He did not scrutinise his wife's face as he
told her where he had found the pencil, so
that his brief glance, ere he had addressed
himself to Dr. Steele, did not perceive that the
treacherous colour slowly ebbed from Mona's
face, and that her eyes were fixed upon him
with much the same look of fear as the rabbit
had first regarded the approach of its stealthy
foe.

But Dr. Steele noticed it, and it seemed to
him as if the expression of her face shadowed
forth such thoughts as — < What does he mean V
What does he know V Only seemed to do so,
the doctor meant, for, of course, not the shadow
of any suspicion crossed his mind, all the more so
from the fact that he knew of no cause for the
latter, neither Armitage nor anyone else having

said anything to him about the forgery. But
he was professionally very interested in Mrs.
Armitage. There was something about her he
could not quite fathom, and tills by no means
signified little, for Dr. Steele had been one of
the leading physicians in the kingdom, and
people had come to him in Edinburgh as one of
the greatest specialists living. For the last twenty
years he had confined himself to the study of nervous
disorders, and was considered a specialist on
all kinds of brain disease ; and it was while
gradually limiting himself to the treatment of
brain cases only that he caught his second attack
of rheumatic fever, an attack which so seriously
affected the vital organs, and especially the
heart, that he was advised — and knew himself
how good the advice was — to leave his absorbing
practice and live quietly in the country.
His son, who was almost as great a physician as
the father, took his place, and by no means
altogether regretfully the famous specialist left
Edinburgh and purchased a small property
adjacent to the Sidlaw Hills, and in the immediate
neighbourhood of Firnie Know. Here he

chiefly employed himself in writing an exhaustive
treatise on the various nervous disorders, in
visiting his friends, among whom none more
frequently saw him than the Armitages, in quiet
open-air exercise of different kinds, and in
occasional visits to Edinburgh and London,
when his services were implored in some exceptionally
important and complicated case. A
tall, rather gaunt man of about sixty years of
age, with sparse grey hair tumbling roughly
over his high but somewhat narrow forehead,
large and coarse eyebrows bristling over the
keen grey eyes, aquiline nose, and broad, straight
mouth dominating the whole face — one felt at
once that he was not a man to waste time or be
trifled with. Despite his aspect, and the
wonderfully penetrating glance of his eyes, he
had the faculty of taking everything in without
staring his patient out of countenance, so that
many felt easier with him than they had ever
imagined they could have done when they met
him for the first time.

Armitage had already spoken to Dr. Steele
about his wife's strange fits of depression. At

first the latter had attributed them to natural
causes, and reminded Hew of the fact that, as
his wife would in due time become a mother, he
must not be put about by every trifling indisposition
or fit of dejection that Mona experienced
; but later on he found little things
he could not quite explain. One day he even
took the trouble to find out from the late Mr.
Cameron's family doctor if he had ever known
or heard of anything mentally wrong in any
member of the family or its collateral branches,
but discovered only the unimportant facts that
Mr. Cameron had been a little eccentric and a
very passionate man, and that he had had a
cousin who had committed suicide, but under
what circumstances Dr. Steele's informant could
not tell him. Later on he learned from Hew
that the cousin had suffered from religious
mania, and had put an end to himself during an
attack of extreme dejection, and, moreover, that
the latter's mother had been subject to months
of depression at a time.

A peculiar furtive movement of Mrs. Armytage
had drawn his attention to her to-night, even

before he had noticed her sudden paleness at
her husband's remark about having been in the
summer-house. But when he saw the latter he
felt inwardly relieved, for here, he argued to
himself, was an indubitable sign that Mrs.
Armitage had something tangible on her mind,
and no mere vague apprehension of some indefinable
trouble. What could it be ? he wondered,
while apparently listening to what Hew
was saying : what could it be? Did he not know
Mrs. Armitage intimately, and did not his insight
tell him that her nature was a transparent
one, and that if she had harboured any guile it
would have reflected itself to any interested
observer as clearly as a deep pool contains the
image of the leafy branches which curve over it
from above.

A little later the two gentlemen became
absorbed in the discussion of some new political
change that was then passing like a storm-cloud
over the country, and Mona was left alone to
her thoughts.

She lay back in her cushioned wicker-chair
and looked dreamily out into the dusky gloom

of the night. The young moon had just risen,
and hung like a crescent of pale fire among
the black branches of the firs beyond the
lawn. Not a breath of wind blew, and there
was no sound save the faintest buzz of the grey
gnats, as they danced in small, gossamer-like
clouds below the swarthy boughs of the copper-beech
that rose almost beside the verandah to
the left. A trailing jasmine gave out its pungent
and exquisite odour. Mona's face grew paler,
and her strength seemed to ebb away imperceptibly
but rapidly. Right across the lawn
swooped a fern-owl, with that peculiar gurgling
sound which had given the bird the name it is
best known by, the nightjar ; and at the same
moment Hew looked round to see if his wife had
noticed the bird, whose cry she had often heard,
but whom he remembered her having said she
had never seen. Her face being in a deep
shadow he did not perceive how still she was,
but, even while his gaze was fixed on her, a
large brown moth flew awkwardly across her
face and got entangled for a moment amidst her
hair. She did not stir, and made not the least
semi-conscious movement.

Mona,' cried her husband, sharply, * are you
not well? Look, Steele, I'm afraid she has
fainted.'

Arinitage was much alarmed, but was soon reassured
by his friend, who declared it was only
a swoon, and that Mona would come round
very shortly. Her husband took her in his strong
arms, and, lifting her into the drawing-room,
laid her on a couch. Two, three, five minutes
of suspense followed, wherein she made no sign,
and an anxious look came into Dr. Steele's keep
grey eyes ; but at last she sighed gently, and
then her dreamy gaze was intercepted by her
husband's. Closing her eyes again wearily, she
murmured something in an appealing tone just
below her breath.

What did she say, Steele ? I could not catch
it.'

1 Oh, some incoherent words,' replied the doctor,
hurriedly, who had, however, distinctly heard
her words, faintly as they had been pronounced.
They were, * Forgive me, Hew'

In a short time Mrs. Armitage was sufficiently
recovered to be taken upstairs, and, by Dr.

Steele's advice, was left alone in the deep sleep
into which she had fallen.

She is all right now,' he said, ' and had
much better be left alone. I should advise you,
Armitage, to sleep in the dressing-room to-night,
and you could leave the door open, so that if
Mrs. Armitage should awake and want anything
you would be at hand.'

The two friends had not long been seated
again on the verandah before Dr. Steele turned to
his companion and said, gravely,

Your wife, Armitage, is very far from strong.
She has had no serious worry of any kind of late,
has she ? And, excuse my asking you, my clear
friend, but has there been any little misunderstanding
between you, for in her present delicate
state the least thing would impress her too
strongly V

No, I am glad to say we have no misunderstanding
of the kind you refer to, nor do I
know of anything that could be a source of serious
worry to Mona. Indeed, it was because of
the state of her health that I refrained from
telling her even the bare facts of a matter that

has been causing me the most serious anxiety of
late. Although 1 do not wish it talked about,
I will tell you, Steele, all about this most unpleasant
affair — if, indeed, you have not heard of
it indirectly already V

On Dr. Steele's assurance that he had heard
no rumour of any kind affecting Armitage, the
latter proceeded to give a detailed account of all
that had occurred, and of all the puzzling features
of the case. Like most great physicians y
Dr. Steele had the power of the accomplished
lawyer to extract definite and essential information
from the person to whom he might
be speaking, and, like the master detective, of
getting to the root of the matter in hand with
as much thoroughness as possible. Listening
with great attention to his friend's account, he
every now and again broke in with some question
so much to the point that, by the time Armitage
had finished his narration, he was possessed of
as full and accurate information as Mr. Gavin
himself.

< What do you think of it, Steele ? Or do
you find it as impossible to form an opinion as I
do?'

After a moment's silence, the doctor replied
that he could not form an opinion as to the personality
of the forger, but that he could not see
any way out of holding the belief that at any
rate the abstraction of the cheques was perpetrated
by some one in the house.

As to the person,' he added, ' I can say nothing,
of course. You seem to have complete
trust in your servants, and are, moreover, certain
that you never left your escritoire open save
when you were in the room, or were having
your morning or post-prandial smoke on the verandah,
a time, of course, wherein no one would
venture to commit the theft, for the double reason
that you see the whole room from where you
generally sit here, and that the abstraction
would be certain to be immediately noticed.
You are again sure that you never left it open
during your absence in Dundee? Yes. Well,
then, is Mrs. Armitage in the habit of occasionally
using the escritoire?'

'No, Mona's certainly not in the habit of using
it. That she has done so occasionally I know,
and I may tell you she generally puts all the

important receipts we get into a drawer therein


Does she do so when you have returned from
business, or when V

4 Oh ! I don't know, I'm sure ; what does it
matter whether she puts them in during the
forenoon or the afternoon % By-the-by, I
never asked her with great particularity as to
whether she had used the escritoire lately, partly
because I knew that she was always careful
to close it again, but chiefly from my anxiety
not to let her see that I was worrying about
anything.'

Neither noticing Armitage's latter remarks
nor the tone of irritation in which his words
were expressed, Dr. Steele continued the questioning
in the sequence of his thoughts.

But if your wife could put away the receipts
at any time, or write a note at your escritoire if
in a hurry, or to save going upstairs to her own
room or elsewhere, she must either have had
the key, or you must have left the folding-shelf
unlocked.'

Will you come into the room for a minute

said Armitage, and, leading the way to the
escritoire, he lit the gas in a bracket beside it,
adding, ' You see how securely fastened the
escritoire is, yet the key is there if you only
knew where to find it.'

The piece of furniture was of oak, and was
curiously carved, especially along the upper
ledge. Although generally quick to discover
the whereabouts of secret drawers and] hidden
interstices, Dr. Steele found himself quite
puzzled, and after the most careful examination,
wherein his wandering fingers helped his skilled
eyes, lie was forced to acknowledge that he
could not find out the hiding-place.

Alon y the upper portion of the escritoire
ran a fanciful frieze of small carved leonine
heads. Shoving one of these up, Armitage
touche 1 what looked like a natural knob of
wood, ind immediately the third head along
the ledge to the right, sprang out an inch
or so, but enough to show that a narrow
drawn van straight in behind. In this lay the
key.

Cer aiuly a most ingenious contrivance,
VOI I. G

Armitage. Where did you come across this
escritoire V

Oh, we got it during our marriage trip on
our way home from Italy through Germany.
Nuremberg was the place. But what I brought
you here for was to show you that, although I
leave the key behind me, it is as safe, or
safer, than if I took it with me ; for I can
absolutely assure you, my friend, that its hiding-place
is as unknown to anyone in this house,
except Mona and myself, as it was to you
until a minute ago. It was owing to a fancy
of hers that I purchased the thing at first, and
we smilingly agreed that we would never put
the key away in sight of anyone, but keep
its hiding-place a profound secret. This Ave
have invariably kept to, and no servant or
anyone else has ever, to our knowledge,
witnessed either of us replacing the key. You
are the only person who knows our small secret,
Steele.'

By this time it had become a little chilly,
owing to that almost imperceptible dampness
which so frequently precedes rain, so the two

gentlemen agreed to adjourn to the billiard-room
and have a game ere Dr. Steele's horse was
brought round to the door.

Armitage evidently concluded that the discussion
about the forgery, or at least the manner of
the abstraction of the cheques from the escritoire,
had come to an end. As a rule he was no
match with his guest at billiards, but to-night
he found himself rapidly drawing ahead, the
latter, evidently preoccupied with his thoughts,
contenting himself with very indifferent play
indeed.

Hew thought he was deep in some professional
problem which he had not had time to
work out that day during the few hours of study
the doctor allowed himself. As a matter of fact
the latter's thoughts, as his next remark showed,
were much nearer the subject they had been
talking of on the verandah.

To revert to the question of the escritoire,
Armitage. Granting that no one of the household
or garden servants ever saw you or
Mrs. Armitage putting away the key in its
hiding-place, it is possible that some one else

g2

did. You do not see very much company here y
I know, until the autumn comes round, but still
you have doubtless had several casual as well
as customary callers. It's a very unpleasant
thing to have to look with questioning eyes
upon anyone who has entered one's house as a
guest, but in a case like this it is only just to all
concerned to turn over every possibility in one's
mind.'

Without immediately replying, Hew touched
a bell by his side, and, when a servant appeared,
requested her to bring the visitors'
book. A few moments later this was in his
hands, when, handing it to his companion,
he remarked that the name of everyone who
called was invariably entered under the proper
date.

Look over the list for the last two months,'
he added, ' and tell me if there is a single name
you do not know, borne by anyone whom you
could not trust.'

It did not take Dr. Steele long to glance
over the not very long list, the only name
unfamiliar to him therein being that of Mr.

Browne, the chief clerk to the firm of Armitage
Brothers.

You are right. There is no one here whom
I could for a moment suspect, and, as for this
Mr. Browne, you say he is entirely reliable, and
that, moreover, he has never been alone in this
room. It's very strange altogether, Armitage.
It would seem as if it must have been
either you or your wife who took away the
cheques — accidentally, of course. Has either
of you ever walked in your sleep ? No ?
Well, really, I do not know what to think.
What does Mr. Gavin say? Does he hint at
anything V

'I don't know what he thinks, but he had
once the stupid insolence to vaguely hint that
my wife may have been under pressing necessity
for money to pay off some private debts.
Ass!'

'Ah, Mr. Gavin thought so too, did he?'
murmured Dr. Steele.

At this moment the latter's horse was announced
to be at the door, and it was added
that the rain would soon be on. Hastily bidding

his host good-night, and promising to see Mrs.
Armitage the next day, he rode off. Despite
the rain, which had now come down heavily,
the doctor let his horse go at a walk for a
great part of the way. When he reached his
house, the groom who led off the horse heard
his master exclaim, as if arguing with someone,


6 Yes, but did he not say that Mr. Gavin
thought so, too ; and what did she mean by
that murmured, " Forgive me. Hew " V

CHAPTER III.

MR. CHARLES LEITH.

A week bad elapsed since the events detailed
in the last chapter, and yet not the slightest
clue had been obtained as to the person who
had forged, or at any rate abstracted, the
two cheques from Hew Armitage's escritoire.
Detective Gavin had been unable to discover
any debts incurred by Mrs. Armitage outstanding
in Dundee, but this was only what he had
expected, for he believed that the lady — if she
had any debts at all — must have got herself into
a mesh at Edinburgh, as in the former city she
would be too well known. It had become his
firm conviction that Mrs. Armitage was not only

the abstracter, but the forger of the false draft,
but he did not think she had herself carried
the transaction through, believing that she had
an accomplice ; for, unknown to her husband,
Mr. Gavin had learned from the under-gardener
that once or twice Mrs. Armitage had been
seen walking in the wood with a gentleman
whose face was unfamiliar to the servant in
question. But, though he felt assured that the
lady was guilty, he was not at all certain as
to the cause of the crime. It might be debt;
it might be half-a-dozen other things ; and the
difficulty was to find out what the real cause
was.

'If only Mr. Armitage would give all the
assistance in his power,' thought the officer, ' I
would soon be able to put my hand on the
guilty party. I expect he already half fears a
scandal, and would prefer to let the matter
drop altogether.'

Mr. Gavin was quite mistaken about his
employer. Hew Armitage had not the least
idea of letting the enquiry fall through, but he
relied on some clue being unexpectedly found

ere long, perhaps even — considering how little
the matter had been talked of outside the persons
concerned — that the cheque No. x09,933
might yet be presented, if not by the forger,
at least by some one who might be the means
of the discovery of that personage.

As he had promised, Dr. Steele called the
following day to see Mona. He found her so
much better mentally as well as physically that
he was as much puzzled as he had been before
her fainting attack on the verandah. Whatever
suspicions he had entertained now lay dormant,
for they could not be said to have been quite
allayed.

1 It is impossible to believe her guilty,' he
said to himself, while with her. ' If she should
prove guilty she must be possessed of a greater
power of deception than any person I have ever
met, and that is saying a good deal,' he added,
as he rode homeward.

It was one of those important seasons when
Armitage was often detained very late in town,
and for some three or four days past he had not
reached Firnie Knowe until the late evening.

As he had about a week of this close attention
to his business to look forward to, he would
have arranged to put up for that time at his
club in Dundee, had it not been for his renewed
anxiety as to Mona's health since her late fainting
attack. One afternoon, however, he had a
return of a kind of rheumatic headache which
had formerly troubled him a good deal, and as
the pain steadily increased, he determined to go
home some hours earlier than he had been
doing for the last few days.

When he reached Firnie Knowe his eye
caught the open visitors-book on the hall table.
Glancing at the day's entry-space, he saw only
one name inscribed — 'Mr. Charles Leith' — a
name quite unfamiliar to him, and, he supposed,
belonging to some friend introduced
by some mutual acquaintance of Mona or
himself.

Entering the drawing-room he found no one
there, so supposed that the visitor had called
earlier in the day, but as he approached the
verandah by way of the conservatory, he
heard voices at the further end of the latter.

As his footsteps rang along the ironwork
of the pavement the voices ceased, but
as he turned into the fernery he saw his
wife and a gentleman seated on the wicker
sofa that stretched between two tall cabbage
palms.

Rising hurriedly, Mona seemed for a moment
confused, but mainly, as her husband inferred,
because of his unexpected appearance at that
early hour.

You are not looking well, Hew,' she said.
6 Is anything the matter with you?'

6 Yes, I have one of those troublesome rheumatic
headaches ; but, Mona, you are forgetting
to introduce me to your visitor.'

'Pardon,' answered Mona, lightly, but she
did not smile as she spoke. * Hew, this is
my old friend Mr. Charles Leith, who will be
glad to make the acquaintance of my husband.'


While the two men shook hands, Armitage
realised that the man before him was the same
he had seen some time ago with Mona in the
fir-wood. With a stiffness he could not quite

subdue he told Mr. Leith that he had fancied he
had seen him somewhere lately, and asked him
if he were residing in Dundee. As her husband
spoke, Mona's face became suffused with a quick
but transient flush, and her eyes had a startled
look as they fixed themselves on those of Mr.
Leith as if dreading what he was about to reply,
or perhaps to evade. Evidently to her relief
their visitor spoke out frankly.

Well, I hardly think you can have seen me
before, Mr. Armitage, unless by chance you may
have seen me in Dundee, where I have been
staying off and on for a short time past, till my
visits in the North are all paid. I hoped to see
you when 1 was he re last, a week or so ago, but
unfortunately missed you. My old friend, Mrs.
Armitage, however, kindly showed me over
your beautiful grounds, and as it was a lovely
day I greatly enjoyed the stroll we had in
Firnie Knowe. I might have met you that
afternoon but that I took a fancy to return to a
friend I had left at Dunmuir by way of Firewood
and over the Sidlaws.'

After this statement Hew's manner thawed

considerably. Some doubts he had experienced
had evidently been set at rest ; and bis wife,
quick to perceive this, became also less constrained.
Mr. Charles Leith, however, was the
only one of the party who seemed quite at ease ;
and, as he spoke fluently on nothing in particular,
Armitage had ample occasion in which to
scrutinise him. As tali as Armitage himself,
but much slimmer in build, with a pale
olive complexion, smoothly shaven cheek and
chin, lustrous dark-brown eyes, and black
hair closely cut, Mr. Leith was undoubtedly
a good-looking man, especially when his features
were in repose. If he could not be called
handsome, it would only be because of his
expression when he smiled — a smile that was
wont to cause as much facial change as a dark
cloud does when, trailing rapidly before the wind,
it banishes the sunshine for a few moments, and
turns the brilliant glow that had lain upon the
landscape into a grey and gloomy monotone.
It was the least mirthful smile that could be
imagined, and though it was manifestly caused
by a malformation of the lips or mouth, not

noticeable in repose, the effect upon strangers
was invariably unpleasant. The eyes were of
that unfathomable brown which reveals nothing,
neither becoming illuminated by pleasure, nor
deepened by emotion, and emitting only a dull
sparkle in moments of exceptional excitement.
That Mr. Leith was aware of the effect his smile
was wont to produce was evident to all who
knew him, from the fact that he very rarely
allowed his lips to uncurl from his teeth. As
far as Armitage could judge, he would be about
thirty years old, but possibly as much as two or
three years younger.

More than once, finding Armitage's eyes curiously
fixed upon him, Mr. Leith at last asked
his new acquaintance if he thought he had seen
him somewhere.

No, I cannot say that I think I have met
you before ; but you put me in mind of
some one I have seen, but whom I cannot, by
any mental effort, recollect. Probably it maybe
one of those indefinite resemblances that we
all find once in a way in total strangers. But

clo not rise to go yet ; our dinner-hour is close
at hand, and I am certain that my wife will
regret if such an old friend contents himself
with a formal call.'

The invitation was courteous and genial,
but both his wife and their visitor noticed
the unmistakable emphasis on the words ' an
old friend,' and the former glanced at the
latter appealingly, as if she hoped he would
decline.

Possibly Mr. Leith thought the glance betokened
that he should stay ; at any rate, he
expressed the pleasure he would have in
accepting the suggestion, and at once seated
himself again. Looking at his watch,
Armitage exclaimed that it wanted nearly
an hour yet from dinner-time, and proposed
a stroll. Mona rose, as if to get her hat or
shawl, but her husband interposed with a
remark that she was to remember Dr. Steele's
advice, and lie down an hour or so before
eating.

6 But, Hew, I have not been out to-day except

for a short stroll in the garden in the early forenoon,
and surely you shouldn't be going out
again with one of those dreadful headaches
imminent.'

The warm air will do me more good than
harm, Mona, and my head won't get any worse
for some hours yet, if it doesn't feel all right
again by that time. Go and rest now, dear, or
there will be two of us with headaches this
evening. Come, Mr. Leith, we will have a
stroll before dinner.'

As her husband returned to the hall to get
his hat and stick, Mona rose, and, going
close to her visitor, said, hurriedly, in a low
tone,

Why did you come here like this, and why
do you stay now that you are here ? You must
be mad.'

'No, ma chere, I'm not mad. "Very much the
reverse, I should say,' and Mr. Charles Leith's
unpleasant smile darkened rapidly over his
delicate face. ' Ah, here comes Mr. Armitage.'

The latter and his guest strolled through the
flower and fruit-gardens, and ere long arrived

at the door by which Armitage had before seen
his wife and his present companion take leave
of each other. Entering the disused glasshouse,
he lifted the key from the place he had
deposited it, and then, the door having been
opened, the two entered the wood by the little
by-path. Two or three times Armitage felt
Leith's eyes fixed on him suspiciously, but,
taking no notice of this, he led the way to the
little summer-house. Coming on it abruptly as
they did, it was quite natural for Hew to say,
in a tone in which one mentions some casual
remark,

< Ah, this little ramshackle erection is a place
my wife and I used occasionally to come to.
But we have not been here together for a
long time past. But perhaps you came this
way the time you were here before?'

For a moment Mr. Leith seemed nonplussed,
but after a perceptible hesitation ho replied
that it must have been the same, as he remembered
having been in some summer-house somewhere
in Firnie Wood.

'What a strange coincidence,' Hew went on,

VOL. I. H

in a coldly balanced tone, ' for it so happened
that on the very afternoon in question I left
my horse at the lodge and strolled in this
direction, for the first time for some months.
I must just have missed you by a few moments,
I expect.'

Again a swift, sidelong glance betrayed that
Mr. Leith was suspicious of something, but he
seemed to be master of that invaluable rule —
when in doubt say nothing.

For some time past Armitage had debated in
his mind as to his right to draw out any information
from his guest relative to the acquaintance
of the latter with Mona, and had come to the
conclusion that he was hardly justified in so
doing ; but something in his companion's manner,
perhaps his frequent and stealthy glances,
made him change his intention.

Did you think my wife looking stronger or
not from what you remember her ? For I suppose
it is a long time since you saw her V

6 No, Mr. Armitage, I cannot say she is looking
so well.' Then, seeing a pained look come
into his companion's face, Mr. Leith went on, with

what a third person might have seen to be very
enjoyable malice, 'And she has lost that bright,
happy look she used to have. I used to think
I had never met anyone who so much enjoyed
the mere act of living.'

Armitage winced, but kept to the point.

It must have been some years ago that you
knew Mrs. Armitage, otherwise I could hardly
have failed to have met you, or at least to have
heard of you; for, if you will excuse my saying
so, I cannot recollect having heard my wife or
any of her friends ever mentioning your name.
Doubtless you have been abroad V

c Yes, I've knocked about a good deal. Don't
you think continental life insults one for the even
flow of British respectability % It always strikes
me that there is an air of stagnation brooding
over everything in this country.'

4 1 have not noticed it,' responded Armitage,
icily, ' though I have been much abroad myself.
I am afraid 1 am one of the respectable Britons
who would meet with your denunciation, Mr.
Leith. There is no doubt much that we might
learn from some other nations, especially, in my

II 2

opinion, from those of the south, but there is
much that we are decidedly better without. In
this country the adulterer meets with no sympathy,
and, though the law forbids a wronged
husband to himself take revenge, public opinion
never severely condemns a man who knows
how to repay the seducer.'

There was a moment's silence, and then
Armitage resumed, with unexpected and intense
emphasis.

If I were in the place of such a man, I
would shoot the traitorous hound as I would a
tiger.'

Though Mr. Leith had striven to divert the
conversation from the subject of Mrs. Armitage,
he did not seem to quite like the turn it had
now taken. In a half-laughing tone he said, ashe
turned away his head,

6 Ah, yes, of course, to be sure. But then, you
know, we never hear now of anybody shooting
anyone else in England.'

'Perhaps because less reason is given for such
an act. But, to return to what we were saying,
I did not catch what you said about the time

you knew Mrs. Armitage, when she looked so
much happier as well as stronger.'

Oh, well, Mr. Armitage, you must not take
my words quite seriously, for you know how
apt we all are to confuse things as they were
with things as they are. When we return to
our native village after years spent in London
or Paris, it's sure to seem to us neither so large
nor so beautiful as it was in our boyhood's
days.'

t Ah, then it is the lapse of time alone that
has caused you to find Mrs. Armitage so much
fallen off in strength and good looks,' said Hew,
drily. ' It must surely have been quite in your
boyhood that you knew her, for to my eyes (prejudiced
though they doubtless are) she has done
the reverse of fall off in one or the other, except
within the last month or so, when she has not
been so well as usual. I suppose it was about
ten years ago that you were acquainted with
each other V

Armitage felt that he was pressing his visitor
in a manner which was hardly courteous, yet he
was determined to gain some succinct reply,

even if he had to go the length of demanding
the information in the most "unequivocal way.
This, however, he was saved doing.

Ah, let me see. Yes, it must be just about
ten years since I knew Miss Mona Cameron.
Dear me, what a lot of things have happened
since I used to see so much of her in Edinburgh.
She was only a school-girl then, but how
evenly her life has since pursued its course. As
for me, 1 have been quite an exile for many years

A great relief seemed lifted from Armitage's
mind, and he became somewhat less reserved in
his manner towards his companion.

Hearing the sound of the dressing-bell, they
returned by the short cut whence they had come,,
but Hew found his wife already in the drawing-room,
and had not, till after their guest had
left, an opportunity to ask Mona one or two
questions upon which he was particularly
anxious to hear what she would have to say.
He found Mona very unresponsive, but she
excused herself by saying that she felt fatigued,
and that she thought she would retire to her
room at once.

1 Is Mr. Leith a very old acquaintance, Mona?'
asked her husband, taking no notice of her last
words.

Yes, Hew ; I told you we were old friends.'

'It must have been a considerable length
of time before our marriage that you were
intimate.'

Oh, we knew each other as children, for that
matter. But you know how apt we are to become
indifferent to our childhood friends, and
this is perhaps the reason why I have never
mentioned his name to you.'

Mrs. Armitage did not say this naturally ; on
the contrary, she spoke with such manifest
restraint that her husband noticed it at once.

And how long is it since you have seen him,
Mona r

I saw Mr. Leith last close upon three years
ago. That is, preceding the first time he called
here, for I have always omitted to tell you, Hew,
that he was here once before when you were
away.'

'I am quite aware of that fact, though his
name was not on the visit ors-bo ok.'

The strange, startled look came into Mrs.
Armitage's eyes again, but passed away as her
husband went on to say that Leith had himself
informed him of the fact. Looking up after a
moment's absolute silence, she found Hew's gaze
fixed upon her intently.

'You are certain, Mona,' he said, coldly and
slowly, 'that you had last met Mr. Charles Leith
about three years ago?'

6 Yes, I happened to meet him three or four
times about that period.'

By-the-by, dear, were you at school in Edinburgh
V

6 No, Hew ; but why do you ask V

Simply because of a curious inconsistency
between what you have just said and what your
friend Mr. Leith told me. He informed me that it
was ten years ago since he last saw you, and that
when he met you it was when you were a schoolgirl
at Edinburgh.'

f Then he stated what was not true, and I cannot
conceive'why he should have done so, except
out of pure inadvertence. Are you sure he did
not speak absently, or as if in answer to some

question the import of which he did not fully
gather V

His wife's answer and the tone seemed to
reassure Armitage, and it was with a sigh of
relief that Mona saw him thaw from his perhaps
unconscious iciness.

6 One word more, dear, and then we can
leave the subject alone. Do you value his
friendship — I mean, do you look upon him
as a friend whom you would regret not to see
again?'

1 do not say that I would never care to see
him again, Hew, but at the same time I should
not only not object, but would prefer that he
did not come here any more. There are old
associations which make it difficult to actually
break with him. For one thing, I knew his —
his — sister intimately.'

Indeed, how strange that I have never heard
you speak of Miss Leith as well as of her
brother?'

No, because she married some time ago, and
I have never corresponded with her since. But
I do not think Mr. Leith will come here again,

for he told us himself at dinner that he was going
abroad again immediately.'

8 Well, I shall not conceal the fact from you
that I am very glad to hear it. I have not taken
a fancy to Mr. Charles Leith, and have no desire
to make his further acquaintance ; of course I
should not have said this had I thought you
really valued his friendship.'

And so the discussion as to their late visitor
dropped between them, and the subject was not
again referred to till a week or two later. One
day, towards the end of this period, Armitage
had occasion to be in Edinburgh. He had
transacted his business, and had entered the
Clarendon Cafe in Princes Street to get some
lunch. He found himself almost alone, and after
a little became absorbed in his newspaper, and
was only vaguely conscious of the fact when
two gentlemen came to a small table near him.
The two new-comers began to speak earnestly
in low tones, and paid no attention to the cognac
and seltzer which the waiter had brought
them, but they might have risen again and
departed without Armitage's taking any notice

of the fact had his ear not suddenly caught the
name of his firm mentioned. Looking up
quickly, he could only see the face of one of the
two men, a face which he did not recognise ; so
he fancied he was probably mistaken. As the
two rose to leave, he heard the one whose face
he had not seen say to his companion,

4 You clear out, and it will be all right. It's
the devil's own risk your staying here, Murdoch :
and, if you weren't such a fool, you would know
it. I don't pretend to be anxious on your
account, but I am on my own.'

Armitage did not hear the reply, but he recognised
the voice of the man who had just
spoken, and in a narrow mirror opposite, at the
moment the two passed it, he saw the delicate
features and' hateful smile of Mr. Charles Leith.
His first thought was to follow them, but,
muttering to himself that he did not wish to have
anything more to do with Leith, he re-seated
himself. Surely the words he had just heard
would admit of no other than an unpleasant interpretation
1 What did they refer to 1 Was
it possible that they had some connection with

the mysterious forgery 1 — and Armitage started
as he recollected having heard, or fancied he had
heard, the mention of his firm. No, surely this
could hardly be. Mr. Leith had never been in
his house alone ; but wait, was he quite sure of
this ? i Supposing for an instant this man was
the person who had stolen the bank cheques,
was it not possible that he had been announced
at Firnie Knowe at a moment when Mona was
writing at the escritoire, and that the latter had,
perhaps unwittingly, closed it and replaced the
key in the secret drawer within his view ? He
might have realised the importance of this fact,
and also noticed how easy of access the room
was from the gardens, and therefore from
Firnie Wood behind. And yet what nonsense
to speculate thus — for, supposing that he had
abstracted the blank drafts from the cheque-book,
how was he, a perfect stranger, to forge
the signature with such practised exactitude as
almost to deceive the chief person concerned
himself? These thoughts succeeded each other
in Armitage's mind, and, though he became
-satisfied that his surmise was so improbable as

not to be tenable, he yet felt uneasy at what
he had overheard, and wished Mr. Leith and his
affairs had never come under his cognisance at
all.

6 1 thought he was going abroad at once, too,'
he muttered. c I wish I was not going on to
London this evening, for though I shall be at
Firnie Knowe in a day or two again I feel
quite put out at the idea that that man may turnup
there during my absence. After what I have
overheard, I would not have the least hesitation
in letting him see that we could dispense in
future with the honour of his visitations. I
think I had better drop a line to Mona and
warn her. And yet no ! It's perhaps better to
say nothing about it at all at present.'

Armitage a few hours later was in the mail
train for the south. As it rushed through the
darkness, he leaned his face against one of the
windows as if he could see something through
the night. A growing uneasiness had come
upon him, and he wished he were home again.
This forgery and all that had taken place since
its discovery had seriously affected him. exceptionally

self-reliant and accustomed to decide
everything by the exercise of his unaided
judgment, he now felt all the more the irritation
and perplexity of the mental maze into which
he had involuntarily been led. At last, tired
out with his thoughts as much as by physical
fatigue, he fell into an uneasy doze. Naturally
he dreamed, and naturally his vagrant fancies
hovered like moths round the central flame of
his present trouble. After a time it seemed to him
that-he saw his wife lying on the sofa in the 
at Firnie Knowe ; she was very pale,
but seemed restfnlly asleep. Gradually her face
took on a troubled look, and she shivered as if
a draught of air had reached her ; and here
Armitage in his dream thought he saw the
French window blow open with the light
wind, and wriggling in at its base and over
the rug and in the direction of Mona a
treacherous-looking snake. He could not cry
out, though it glided closer and closer to her,
and was now almost upon her. At last she gave
a wild cry, and even at the moment that Hew
sprang forward to rescue her he awoke with

the prolonged scream of the engine as the train
neared a station, and t found that he had been
dreaming.

Children are told that when their ears burn
they may be sure some one is speaking of them
at that moment. No doubt ears burn from
much more immediately physical causes, but
there is none the less an element of truth in the
popular saying. It is certain that two minds
in sympathy can at certain moments and under
special circumstances directly influence each
other, though a great distance may intervene.
When this faculty becomes a voluntary and
really potent factor, it is known as the mesmeric
influence. When it is vague and unconsciously
exemplified, it is not called anything
at all, but is none the less a fact of
life.

Whether her husband's dream, or rather-the
actively memories state of his mind during
the dream, affected Mona or not it would
be rash to assert, but quite possibly it did
so.

She had been sitting in the drawing-room

with a lady, who had come as a guest
the same morning; but the latter, who was
somewhat of an invalid, had retired early.
Remembering that a letter had come for her
husband which he had expected, and asked to
be sent to him, she went into the adjoining
morning-room and readdressed the envelope of
the letter that was lying on the table.

Having had several household accounts sent
in, she thought she would take this opportunity
of checking them with those which had last been
settled, and, opening Hew's escritoire, she took
the package from its place and began her
comparison. She had not been at all well,
for some days, and her husband's departure
for London, though only for two or three days,
had not tended to make her more cheerful.
She felt strangely depressed, and though —
i unknown to Armitage — she had had cause for
this hitherto, there was now no reason therefor.
Her head, also, which had been troubling
her for some time past, soon caused her
to grow weary of the account-checking ;
so, thrusting the papers aside and locking

up the escritoire, she went over to the
couch-sofa whereon she spent much of
each forenoon, and, lying down, closed her
eyes.

The evening was sultry and unpleasantly
still. The sheet lightning quivered in sudden,
tremulous flashes, turning the black branches
of the firs into momentary ashen grey, and disturbing
the thrushes and other birds, as they
huddled close under the leaves, with fitful
gleams of an unreal dawn. Though the room
in which Mona lay was filled with the lamplight,
the occasional flashing of the lightning
could be seen through the uncurtained windows.
She noticed this vaguely when now and
again she opened her eyes for a brief space,
but was glad when she heard the patter of
a few drops of rain, always the most welcome
sign on such a night. Softly the
rain continued to fall, and she could just hear
the soft plash it made as it dripped from the
over-heavy blossoms of the lilac on to the
mass of green leaves beneath. Everything
was so still and quiet, and the rain had to some

VOL. I. I

extent so modified the oppressiveness of the
atmosphere, that Mona gradually became
drowsy, and would soon have been asleep, but
that a sensation of being looked at suddenly
caused her to feel wide-awake. She saw nothing,
however, though the blindness windows
had an eerie look to her perturbed nerves.
What was Hew doing, she wondered. Was he
asleep, or reading, or thinking of her? Was
he — and with a sudden, unaccountable chill
she slightly opened her eyes, but without
moving. Her glance was fascinated in a
moment by what she saw at one of the long
windows. Pressed close to the glass was
a white face, with vivid eyes fixed steadfastly
on herself. The rain that had fallen against
the pane seemed to burr the face to her vision,
but made it more horrible to look upon owing
to an appearance of something unnatural which
it gave to it. The eyes seemed to burn out
of an ashen countenance, and the latter had
the look as if it were passing away in drops of
rain.

Mona's face was as pale as that of the

vision she looked on, but she made neither
sound nor motion, being as spell-bound as
the bower-bird when the carpet-snake fixes
its eyes upon her as she sits in her nest.
Slowly a white hand came out of the darkness,
close to the face, and seemed to beckon
to the person within, or perhaps to feel if
the window would open with pressure. The
very act of motion broke the spell over Mona,
for with a loud cry she fell back fainting.
Almost instantaneously one of the men-servants,
who had been fastening the front-door,
entered the room in evident alarm, but, before
he had quite crossed the threshold, the face at
the window had vanished.

When Mrs. Armitage came to her senses
again, she could not be absolutely certain
whether she had not been only dreaming; butin
any case she felt that she had received a
severe shock, as was indeed evident to those
around her. When she had been put in her
bed, the footman and the butler took a lantern
and together examined the ground outside the
windows of the morning-room. They hardly

expected to discover anything, because the turf
came close up to the house, and there had not
been enough rain to render it sufficiently damp
to long retain the impression of any footmarks,
unless left by hob-nailed, heavy boots.
Nor did they in the uncertain light discover
anything until one of the men perceived the
impression of a boot-sole on the stone ledge of
the window, and almost hidden from sight by a
broken lilac-branch. Beyond ascertaining that
their mistress's fancy had some other basis than
imagination, they learned nothing else, except,
indeed, the fact that the intruder could not have
been a country bumpkin, for the impression was
that of a foot almost small enough to belong to
a woman.

It was also afterwards ascertained that Mr.
Carson, a neighbouring small farmer, had been
returning to his house late the same evening,
that he had taken a short cut through Firnic
Wood, and that he had been startled to see a
man leap over the garden wall of Firnie Knowe
and disappear through the wood in an opposite
direction to that in which he was going.

Dr. Steele was very much surprised when,
the following morning, he was awakened an
hour or two before the time when he was
usually summoned; but when he heard that
it was on account of the sudden illness of Mrs.
Armitage he lost no time in getting ready,
and ere long rode up to the door of Firnie
Knowe.

He found his patient in a brain-fever.

Armitage was of course telegraphed for, and
he arrived on the morning instead of the evening
of the day on which he had arranged to
return. He was terribly anxious about his
wife ; anxious not only because of the danger
in which she lay, but also on account of what
could have caused Mona to succumb to such
a complaint as brain-fever. Dr. Steele explained
it by stating that he had noticed her
as being nervously unstrung for some time past,
and that the fright she had received two evenings
ago had brought things to a sudden and
severe climax. While considering the case a
grave one, he gave Armitage the small consolation
that the attack, while violent, would be

short, and that, having the inestimable advantages
of youth and a good constitution on
her side, there was every reason to hope that
she would get over it all right. At the same
time Hew perceived that Dr. Steele was himself
very anxious. Before he left, to return in a
few hours, he addressed himself again to his
friend, but spoke hurriedly and under some
restraint, as if he had wished there had been
no reason for such a remark as he had to
make.

'You will understand, of course, Armitage,
that your wife's mind is at present a perfect
jumble of odds and ends of realities and-wild
imaginings, and that absolutely no attention
need be given to what she says.'

I understand,' replied Hew, gravely.

There was no need, as it turned out, of Dr.
Steele's precautionary words, for throughout
the brief but violent course of the fever Mona's
exclamations were so incoherent and so inconsequent
that nothing could have been gained
from them. Once or twice, however, her lips
murmured of her husband, and the intense

ardour of her tone filled Hew's heart with an
exquisite gladness, so that, in the midst of
his sorrow and anxiety, he felt the blessed
assurance that not even the faintest shadow
had come between the sunlight of their mutual
trust and love.

While everyone else was anxious, Mr. Gavin
was puzzled. He had obtained a new clue,
which promised not to be without result, and he
felt peculiarly desirous of learning something of
the present whereabouts of a certain Mr. James
Murdoch.

CHAPTER IV.

AN ACCIDENT.

A MONTH had passed since Mrs. Armitage had
been stricken down by her attack of brain-fever.
Her illness had proved dangerously severe, but
had lasted little over a week ; nevertheless the
succeeding weeks of prostration proved even
more difficult to rally from than the insidious
disease itself. Far from satisfactory as her
present state was, it was aggravated by the
condition in which she was otherwise, for she
expected to become a mother in about three
months' time.

Nothing had yet been found to prove who
the person was who had abstracted and forged
the cheques. As Mr. Gavin said to Armitage—

< It's a puzzling case, sir, but I've struck a
little zig-zag path, which, so to speak, may yet
lead to the robber's cave in the centre of the
wood. No, sir, I can't tell you anything yet,
and you must take my word for it that you
wouldn't be a bit the wiser if I did conduct
you to my zig-zag path.'

Mr. Gavin made a great mistake here, for if
he had taken Armitage into his confidence
about ' the party of the name of Murdoch,' ashe
phrased it at the head-office, he would have
learned an additional fact to what he already
knew, which would have almost certainly led to
the detection of a person who might at any rate
have been able to throw a flood of light on the
mysterious incident. A few words more and the
whole tenor of Armitage's life would have been
different from what it proved ; but, as these few
words were never spoken, he turned away from
the officer, unknowing that at that moment
another link had been added to the chain which
was about to wind itself around his life.

It was a happy day for both Armitage and
his wife when the latter was strong enough to

foe taken out for a drive. Both felt as if recovery
were now a settled thing, and Hew
realised how great had been his anxiety and
his dread. They had never spoken about the
subject of the person whom Mona had seen at
the window on the night she was taken ill, Dr.
Steele having told Armitage that, as likely as
not, it would unduly excite her, but now he felt
that they could safely talk it over. While she
told him all that had occurred, his dream in the
train came back vividly to him, and he was
much struck by the coincidence — a matter, however,
to which he did not draw Mona's attention
at the time.

I asked Dr. Steele about it afterwards, Hew,
but he said that in all probability I had imagined
it ; but we afterwards ascertained, or
rather he did, at the time, and I on my recovery,
that some one really had been there

You didn't recognise the face, I suppose V

1 No — oh, no ; I am sure I did not recognise
it.'

You speak hesitatingly. Did recognition of
it come later on V

Mona hesitated a little before replying, and
then said —

6 Well, I have fancied two or three times it
was like the face of Mr. Leith, but, as we had
been talking about him just before I was ill, it
is quite likely that my half-reminiscence is
purely imaginary. How stupid I am ! — of course
it could not have been he under any circumstances,
for you know he was going abroad
immediately.'

Armitage was just about to tell her of his
glimpse of Mr. Leith in Edinburgh, but refrained.
Without consciously doing so, he
acted upon the proverb, ' Let sleeping dogs
lie.'

September arrived, and with it Mona gained
greatly in strength. As it was a slack time with
his business, Armitage was able to indulge in
his favourite partridge-shooting, and spent the
afternoon of at least every second day in tramping
over the fields with or without his friend,
Dr. Steele. One day early in the month he
joined his near neighbour, Lord Ratho, and
set forth to get some grouse-shooting on

the purple slopes of the Sidlaws where they
rise beyond the highest reach of Fimie Wood.
After some very fair sport, Armitage noticed
that his friend seemed very fatigued, and
accordingly suggested a rest, to which
Lord Katho assented with every sign of
exhaustion.

The latter was so far refreshed by luncheon
that he insisted on resuming his gun, much
against the wish of Armitage, who saw that his
host was far from well, and who had noticed
how wildly he had been shooting. The second
covey had just been started, when Lord Ratho
fired into the air, and fell forward in an apoplectic
seizure. Mr. Armitage was much distressed,
and, having directed the keepers to
carry their master to the nearest farm-house till
he was sufficiently recovered to be taken home,
he took a short cut over the Sidlaws and byway
of Firnie Wood to obtain Dr. Steele's
valuable assistance.

By the time he was half-way through Firnie
he recollected that it was just about the hour
the doctor generally called to see Mona, and

that he had accordingly better turn his steps in
the direction of his own house than of the
Cedars. The nearest way now was to go by the
orchard entrance where he had many weeks ago
seen Mona take leave of Mr. Leith.

He did not reach it by the high winding path
that led from the summer-house, but by another
that suddenly branched to it from the thickest
part of the wood.

As he had directed this door to be always
kept locked, save when any of the gardeners
expected to be continuously passing out and in,
which only happened very rarely, he was surprised
to find that it gave way with a slight
pressure, and he was still more surprised when
he saw the key in the outside lock — that is,
facing the wood.

What stupid carelessness,' he muttered, as,
removing the key, he locked the door from the
inside, and proceeded to the disused glass-house
to hang it up on the nail inside, where it was
supposed to be usually kept.

He started as ho entered the old glass-house,
and stared before him as if he had seen a ghost.

There, in its usual place, hung the key of the
door by which he had just entered, and with
the worn-out label attached to it. Looking at
the one in his hand, he saw that it had no rust
on it, and that it had all the appearance of
having been little used.

1 must find out what this means,' he said to
himself, as a frown darkened over his face.
It may mean something serious, but in any
case my men know I allow no duplicate keys.
As soon as I've sent Steele to Lord Ratho, I'll
find out to whom this key belongs, how long
he or she has had it, and for what purpose it is
used.'

Instead of going across the open fruit-gardens,
he took a by-path that led through a thick
screen of laurel and box, and as he arrived
within a few yards of the spot where the left
fork of it curved round to issue upon the lawn
in front of the drawing-room, he caught the
sound of music coming from within the room,
and so guessed that Dr. Steele must either have
gone or had not yet paid his visit. The next
moment, through a gap in a sweeping spurge-laurel,

lie saw a gentleman standing on the lawn
outside with his eyes fixed on the open window
of the room, as if uncertain whether to advance
closer or not. The music ceased, and Mona
crossed the room and pulled down the blind of
one of the side windows, through which too
strong a flood of sunshine was streaming, and,
having done so, returned to the piano again,
evidently without having caught sight of the
figure to her right standing on the lawn. The
latter raised his arm in a beckoning attitude, but
seeing that Mona had not seen him, advanced
a few steps, still hesitatingly. As he did so,
Armitage issued quietly from the narrow laurel
avenue, and advanced towards the stranger
from behind, his footsteps making no sound on
the soft, yielding turf.

He had recognised Mr. Charles Leith.

So intent was the latter in his scrutiny of the
drawing-room windows, that he heard nothing
till he felt a touch on his shoulder.

Swinging hastily round, his pale face grew a
shade paler as he noticed who it was, and the
expression that lay on Hew's face.

1 Good afternoon, Mr. Charles Leith,' said the
latter, with extreme deliberation, and in a tone
of the most icy politeness.

Ah, Mr. Armitage, how do yon do ? Delighted
to see you,' stammered Leith. ' I
thought I heard voices in the garden, so came
hither, thinking to find you and your wife
strolling about.'

If Mona had not been playing she would, of
course, have heard their voices on the lawn, but,
as it was, she heard nothing.

Will you step this way, if you please,' continued
Armitage, ' I have a few words I wish
to speak to you ;' and, so saying, he led the way
to that portion of the garden which was invisible
from the drawing-room or morning-room.

An evil look crossed Leith's face as he follow -
-ed, but when the two men faced each other
again he was calmly polite and indifferent in his
manner.

'In the first place, sir, I may inform you
that Mrs. Armitage has been very unwell
indeed, partially owing to a fright she received
from some intruder who, with some

evil intent, I am convinced, had been lurking
about outside the house. I may have my suspicions
as to who this personage was, but I
need not dwell upon the subject at present.
Sufficient that Mrs. Armitage is not yet strong
enough to receive visitors.'

I Certainly not, Mr. Armitage. You are quite
right. But of course an old friend like myself
is different, and I am sure that, if you
tell her I am here, she will express a wish to
see me.'

I I have no intention of telling Mrs. Armitage
that you are here. In a word, sir, I may tell
you that she, as well as myself, feel ourselves
under the unpleasant necessity of letting you
know that we consider a further acquaintanceship
undesirable.'

A dull flash gleamed in Leith's unfathomable
brown eyes, and a red spot burned for a moment
on either cheek.

I do not believe that Mrs. Armitage has ever
expressed herself. And I am sure that for her
sake I regret your having such a jealous
temperament.'

VOL. I. K

Your sneer has no effect upon me, sir.
There are some men from whom I would resent
such an insult as you have just given expression
to. Coming from you, I confess, it bears
no weight.'

Leith's glance shifted uneasily from side to
side in exactly the way as do those of a beast
of prey when confronted by some obstacle of
fear or suspicion. He seemed hesitating as to
what to say next, perhaps what to do next, and
at least a minute's silence intervened before he
spoke again.

1 consider your words and implications intolerable,
Mr. Armitage. At the same time, I am
ready to believe that you must have some other
reason than personal feeling. I am sure that
Mona '

1 1 will trouble you, Mr. Leith, to call my wife
Mrs. Armitage.'

'Mrs. Armitage, then,' resumed the latter,
with a polite bow and sneering face ; ' 1 am sure
that Mrs. Armitage '

Excuse me again interrupting you, but I
can assure you that Mrs. Armitage is no more

desirous than I am of retaining the honour of
your acquaintance.'

Damn you, you will answer for this. And if
you refuse to give me satisfaction I will proclaim
you everywhere as a coward, and, moreover,
as a jealous coward.'

No,' responded Armitage, calmly and sternly,
6 1 will not give you the satisfaction you refer
to — in the first place, because I think duelling
barbarous and unmanly; and in the second
place, because, if I did so far forget myself as
to engage in a duel, it would only be if my
opponent were a gentleman. No, Mr. Leith,
you need not raise your arm threateningly. You
might get the worst of it, you know, and then
my gardeners or grooms might take a fancy to
duck you in the horse-pond. Ah, I see you think
discretion the better part of valour. Then as to
your proclaiming me a coward or anything else,
I think it would be as well if you were to
keep yourself as quiet as possible. Supposing
I were to repeat my suspicion of a certain
transaction between you and your friend Mr.
Murdoch ?'

k2

This chance remark of Armitage's hit the
mark in a way that nothing else he could have
said would have done. Leith grew deadly pale
and seemed literally to shrink, and it was only
when, with quick natural insight, he inferred
that his companion had only a glimmering of
something wrong, that he was able by a great
effort to compose his features again.

I cannot conceive what you refer to.
Your sudden, vague accusation, coupled with
the name of a person I do not know, has
quite taken me aback. Who is Mr. Murdoch,
pray V

Mr. Murdoch was the person to whom you
confided the generous remark that his presence
in the country was the devil's own
risk, and that you were, while not the least
anxious on his account, very much so on your
own.'

In a moment Leith recollected where he had
said this, and also realised that these were the
only words he had been incautious enough to
speak above a whisper. There also flashed
across his mind a memory of a person having

been at a table close to himself and Murdoch,
but whose face he had not seen owing to a
newspaper in which the person in question
was immersed.

Ah, I remember now. You must have been
in the Clarendon Cafe, in Edinburgh, on the
day I was there last. I met there, by appointment,
my cousin, Murdoch Harrison. He went
to the dogs a year or two ago, and lately joined
the army as a recruit. He had not been there
long before he had a row of some kind, bolted
from York (where his regiment was stationed),
and turned up at my rooms in Edinburgh, where
he had traced me from having seen me in
Princes Street. He told me some cock-and-bull
story, which I was foolish enough to believe ;
at any rate I rashly helped him to evade
capture. But when I found he had no intention
of leaving Edinburgh I determined
to let him see that he could expect nothing
more from me, and thus it was I came to speak
to Murdoch Harrison as I did at the Clarendon
safe.'

The absolute assurance with which Leith

spoke, and the swift self-control which had
enabled him to change his air of dismay into
one of matter-of-fact, staggered Armitage, even
while he instinctively disbelieved every word
that his companion had just spoken. Knowing
nothing material he determined to have a parting
shot with the same kind of dart that had
wounded before.

Ah, the person to whom I referred was not
your cousin, Mr. Murdoch Harrison he said,
drily, ' but plain Mr. Murdoch. I did not say
that the occasion referred to constituted my only
acquaintance with your friend and yourself.
But now, sir, I must wish you good-day, and I
trust that for your sake, as much as my own, we
will not meet again.'

Something in the manner in which Leith
shot a swift glance behind him ere he turned
haughtily away caused Hew to start with a
sudden surmise.

1 May I return you your key of my garden-door,
Mr. Leith? I am afraid you inadvertently
left it in the outside ; perhaps you were in a
hurry, or thought it safer there V

For a moment Leith's unpleasant smile gave
that cynical, evil look to his face which it
customarily did. Then, saying simply, ' Your
last insult is rather far-fetched, I think,' he
turned to go.

•Mr. Leith!'

'Well?'

Did you or did you not use this key to gain
access to my grounds V

I really cannot say whether that is the key
or not, though I presume it is if you say so. 1
certainly reached Firnie Knowe by the wood, it
being at once my pleasantness and shortest way.
I thought I would take the chance of the door
being open, and, though I did not find it so, I
noticed the key in the lock, and so let myself in.
Naturally I left it where it was, as I fancied
one of the gardeners or some one must have left
it there on purpose against his or her return from
the wood.'

Had this man the gift of perfect lying,
thought Armitage, or was he really unjustly
suspected 1 No, he was an accomplished liar,
he thought.

i 1 do not believe you. But in any case I may
tell you that the door will in future be barred
up.'

What a pity for Mona ! She will miss her
short cut to the wood.' With a wicked smile,
Leith turned away, and walked down the broad
avenue to the main road.

Armitage's first impulse was to spring after
him, and give him the lesson he needed, but,
checking himself, he stood still and watched the
retreating figure of his late companion. Just
as the latter was about to disappear round the
bend in the avenue, after which the house
was lost to view, he turned round, and, looking
not at Hew but at one of the windows,
waved his hand with a gesture of familiar farewell.
The blood rushed to Armitage's face, ashe
recognised the implied insult, but, as at the
very moment he heard Mona still playing, he
contented himself by smiling bitterly at Leith's
empty malice.

The most searching inquiry about the duplicate
key only served to convince him that his suspicions
as to its ownership were correct. What

could Leith have wanted with it, and how did he
get it made % He must have abstracted the usual
key at one time, and got another made identically
the same. Yet to have done this he must have
had some definite object in view. What could this
object have been % That Leith had had anything
to do with the matter of the forgery Armitage
could not bring himself to believe, the number of
improbabilities far exceeding the single vague
possibility. But was there anything else in or
about the house which he was anxious to find
out or obtain *? If not, then it must have been
his desire to see Mona privately ; and for what
reason ! Had he some secret to confide to her
and to talk over — had there been something
between them at one time — had he a belief that
he could alienate her love from her husband,
either by the force of old associations, or by the
charm of his present self?

He was getting wearied of this air of mystery,
he said to himself; and he mentally determined
that when once their child was born, and Mona
had gained strength again, he would take her
abroad for a time, and see if change of air

would shake all these mental vapours away.

After the events just narrated, the days went
smoothly on, and nothing was seen or heard of
Charles Leith. Dr. Steele was no longer
anxious about Mrs. Armitage's physical health,
but he was urgent that she should have absolutely
nothing to mentally distress her, as there
was great fear that her brain, being still her
weakest part, would be the first thing that
would be seriously affected. He did not tell
Armitage, but he felt very doubtful as to what
would happen after the child was born. Hew
was happier and more hopeful, and the forgery
matter troubled him less — still as aggravating a
mystery as ever, it had become less dominant
in his daily thoughts.

As for Mr. Gavin, his clue had not yet led
him to the heart of the mystery, but his suspicions
were greatly strengthened by an anonymous
letter he received, which ran thus :

If Detective Gavin is anxious to solve the
mystery of the forged cheque signed " Armitage
Brothers." he will save time and trouble if he
will concentrate his faculties of observation a

good deal nearer Firnie Knowe than Edinburgh.
This hint is given him by one who knows the
truth, and is anxious to see it come to light, but
who is so placed as to be absolutely unable to
afford any further or more definite information.
Detective Gavin can do as he likes with this
hint, or he may treat it in the manner with
which anonymous communications in general
should be dealt, but the writer can again warn
him that if he neglects it he will simply be
wasting his time

The post-mark of this communication was
Dundee, and for reasons best known to himself
Mr. Gavin came to the conclusion that it was a
piece of genuine information. At the same
time he determined to pursue his inquiries in
Edinburgh a little further before returning.

Mona had again become restless and depressed,
but, as her physical strength did not decrease,
her husband was not rendered specially anxious.
One fresh October morning, as he made ready
to ride away to the station, he noticed with
keen delight how much brighter was the light
in her eyes, and how much stronger she seemed.

He had not felt so securely happy for many
weeks past, and throughout the early part of
the day he remained in this condition. Shortly
after two o'clock, as he was finishing an important
letter, a telegram was brought to him.
Having signed the letter, he opened the thin,
brown envelope, while he gave some directions
to the clerk who was standing by his side, and
in a moment the latter saw him grow deadly
pale, the colour ebbing away even from his lips.
Without a word Armitage hastily left his office
and drove with all speed to the station. The
telegram form had fluttered on to the floor, and
with natural curiosity the clerk took it up and
read it ; the words ran simply :

Come at once ; an accident has happened ;
and the sender was Dr. Steele.

After luncheon Mona had gone out for a
drive. The fresh autumn air revived her, and
she felt that mild exhilaration which comes to
those who are forced to be much indoors when
once they get surrounded by a rapid current of
keen air. Skirting the Firnie woods, already
seeming sombre and dark in contrast with the

glowing foliage of the beeches, oaks, limes, and
chestnuts, the carriage rolled rapidly along,
and Mona caught many of those delightful
glimpses with which every country ramble or
drive is replete. In the frequent meadows
patient cows stood, the breath in the frosty air
hanging in visible clouds of vapour above
their nostrils; here and there were groups of
Highland cattle, brown, long-haired, and shaggy,
and with huge horns, the use of which the
gentle black-brown eyes belied. At frequent
intervals along the wayside hung great trailing-snowy
masses of the traveller's-joy, and in the
hedge-rows the robins and the finches were
already being tempted by the abundant plenty
of scarlet hips and haws. The air seemed able
to transmit sound to an exceptionally long distance.
Deep in the backwoods over the meadows
to the right Mona heard a blackbird singing loudly
and continuously his broken autumnal song,
with that electric thrill in its note which is the
essence of bird-music; and from every moorland
patch that supported a few clumps of gorse
or whin or heather came the sweet familiar cry

of the yellow-hammer. Far away, from some
village hamlet, resounded faintly the barking of
a dog, and now and again swelled upon the air
"the lowing of milch cows, or the tinkling of
sheep-bells as the old wethers guided the flock
from dewy hollow to sloping down, and from the
downs to more barren declivities which yet held
patches of sweetest hill-grass between the rib-like
spurs of grey trap. As the carriage passed
the woods that formed the southern boundary of
Lord Ratho's estate she noticed how they had
taken on almost a monotone of dull gold ; here
and there, indeed, was a touch of crimson, of
russet, and even of vigorous green, but the great
mass of colour was of orange-yellow. Above
these, or rather above some russet-toned beeches
further in, Mona caught a glimpse of a hawk
hanging motionless in the sky; it seemed to
poise there without effort, neither ascending nor
descending — more like some sky-flower that
had its sustenance only in the air, and that,
rootless, was drifted about by every passing
wind above, but never down upon the green
earth below. As Ratho Hill was surmounted,

the Tay valley was seen in all its beauty, never
lovelier than in the autumn. Then swiftly
the horses, recognising their homeward directions,
dragged their not very heavy weight
after them, and soon they had reached the
summit of Duoluiart Rise, whence Firnie
Knowe lay two miles away beyond its fir-woods.


Some gipsies had been hanging about the
neighbourhood for an hour or two past, having
probably heard at Firnie Lodge or elsewhere
some particulars about Mrs. Armitage, and
being desirous of making something by a
pleasant prophecy. But they had chosen their
place badly, for it was behind a bend of the
road, while still in the slope from Dunluiart
Rise, so that under any circumstances a carriage
could hardly have been drawn up at that point.
Possibly the gipsies had anticipated this, however,
on the ground that they would be better
able to run after the carriage if it should show
no signs of stopping. As it drew near the bend
in the road the coachman rashly omitted to put
down the drag, and with a heavy swing the

carriage spun round the corner. At the same
moment a couple of wild-looking figures
sprang towards it on either side, apparently
right out from the thick-leaved hedgerows;
against one of them the carriage swung, and
the swarthy Gitani was hurled back in the
hedge. With a wild snort one of the horses
reared and fell, struggling so frantically that its
neighbour was dragged also down at the same
moment that the carriage reeled heavily and
fell to the side with a crash. The coachman,
who had been precipitated into a dry ditch to
the left, sustained no damage, and was able to
see to this mistress at once. Mona, lying beside
the carriage, apparently alive and unhurt,
seemed to the man to have escaped by a
miracle; but when he found that his utmost
endeavours to restore her to consciousness failed
he became much alarmed.

The gipsies were looking on with a curious
dull gaze, bewildered apparently by the suddenness
of the catastrophe ; but, seeing the plight
of the lady, one of them, the fortune-teller of
the company, came slowly forward and knelt

beside Mrs. Armitage. Taking the latter 's head
in her lap, she opened her eyelids, but found
the orbs glazed and expressionless, when, hastily
calling out some Zingari phrase to an old
woman, she began rubbing her hand backward
and forward over Mona's left breast. In a
minute or less the old woman came up with a
small clay bottle, taking which in her hand the
fortune-teller placed it to Mona's lips, and forced
some of the contents into her mouth. No
effect, however, was produced. Seeing this the
woman sprang to her feet calling out to the
coachman —

I thought she was only in a bad faint, but
I'm thinking she must have struck her head
against the hard road or against the wheel as
she fell. It may bring her trouble on, poor
thing, so the sooner she's at home the better.
What shall we do V

Peters, the coachman, had stood awkwardly
by while the woman was endeavouring to restore
his mistress, but the moment he was appealed to
he became clear-sighted and alert.

'Look you, mistress, you're a kindly-like wool.

I. L

man, so I've no hesitation in leaving poor Mrs.
Armitage in your care for a bit. One of these
horses is no use, Fm afraid, hut I'll take the
other and ride in at once to Firnie Knowe, and
bring out the phaeton to take my mistress home
in. And if that lad of yours there will strike
across the fields to the Cedars and tell Dr. Steele
to come at once he will do us a good turn, which
won't he forgotten, I promise you.'

Peters wisely restrained his natural indignation
against the gipsies as the chief, if not the
sole, cause of the mishap, deferring expression
of this till he had got Mrs. Armitage safely
home.

In as short a time as possible he was back
again with the phaeton, into which Mona, still
insensible, was gently laid, the gipsy woman
sitting by her side ; and when they reached the
house they found Dr. Steele awaiting them.
A moment's glance showed the doctor how serious
the case was, so he sent off a messenger at
once with a telegram to Armitage. When Hew
arrived at Firnie Knowe he was met at the door
by Dr. Steele. The latter's face was very grave,

but he put as favourable a light as he could on
the case as he narrated the particulars.

'No, my boy, it would not do for you to see
your wife at present. I may tell you that I expect
she will be in travail to-night at latest.'

6 But she is conscious, isn't she V

No, Armitage. It is my duty to tell you
that I fear there is something else to contend
with. She has had concussion of the brain from
striking the road or the wheel of the carriage as
she fell.'

But she will recover ! For God's sake say
she will get over it !'

She has youth and a fine constitution on her
side, so we must hope for the best. I can say
nothing more.'

A long and wretched afternoon this proved to
Armitage. He walked about from room to room
like a restless animal ; inside, the stillness seemed
insupportable — outside, the glare of the daysliine
was maddening, and the cries of the robins
shrill and aggravating insistent. In one of his
short, aimless garden excursions his wandering
gaze was arrested by a small snail which was 



king itself and its shelly home over a ripe peach
that hung low against the brick wall. What
beauty and delicacy there was in the shell,
strange that he never noticed it before — thus
he thought ; but stranger still is that faculty of
mind which causes the most strained attention
to be concentrated for a moment on some trifling
object, a concentration which will so fix the
object in the mind that the latter will remain a
remembered fact when all the grief or perplexity
in which it was noticed has become vaguely
unreal or absolutely forgotten.

At last the day passed into twilight, and night,
there being no moon visible, seemed to come
sooner than usual.

Wearied, Armitage dropped off into a doze ashe
lay back on the couch of his smoking-room.
He had no idea how long he had been unconscious
when he awoke with that sensation of something
strange or unpleasant having happened,
or being about to happen. The lamp in the room
had burned low, and there was an oppressive stillness
throughout the house. Finding his solitariness
no longer supportable, he passed out of the

room and went upstairs. He met no one till he
reached the corridor, where were the rooms of
his wife and himself. Then suddenly he heard a
faint, thin crying issuing from the chamber
wherein Mona lay, and knew that another child
had been born into the world.

While he stood in the dark hesitatingly, the
door opened, and Dr. Steele came forth. Taking
Hew's arm, he walked away from the
corridor, and until they reached the smoking-room
not a word passed between them.

CHAPTER V.

A MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE.

When Dr. Steele and Armitage reached the
smoking-room, the former noticed that his companion's
face was deadly pale, and that he was
evidently bracing himself up to meet some
unexpected shock.

A child has been safely born, and the mother
has not succumbed, as I half feared.'

1 Thank God for that ! But I see you have
something more to tell me. Do not keep me in
suspense.'

Well, my dear friend, I fear that your wife
has sustained some mental injury owing to the
fall. In ordinary circumstances the concussion
she received would not have proved very serious,

but in the present instance it has entailed very
serious results. She may throw the injury off
in a short time.'

Do you mean that Mona's mind is deranged V

s It is unhinged, and the evil will manifest
itself in a special way

1 Do speak more clearly, Steele !'

I fear that for a time you must not expect
to see her. Some strange and unaccountable
freak has caused her to regard you with feelings
either of great fear or great dislike. I know
how easy it is to say so, but you must be
patient, Hew, my boy. It will pass away intime,
I have no doubt ; but in the meantime I
must assure you that I cannot answer for the
consequences if you enter your wife's room.'

'But what, in heaven's name, could cause
Mona to take such an extraordinary dislike tome?
When did this feeling manifest itself?
Surely it would disappear the moment she sees
me again V

6 1 have already told you it is one of those
strange mental freaks for which there is no
accounting. But it will comfort you to hear

that more than one such case has occurred in
my own experience, and that in each instance
the patient regained her mental equilibrium as
soon as her physical strength was established.
But you must not think of such a thing as venturing
into her room on the chance that she
might experience a revulsion of feeling. It is
my conviction that such a course would either
kill her or totally unhinge her mental faculties.
As for the time she first manifested this strange
state of feeling, it was when she recovered her
consciousness after the accident. She knew
that her child was about to be born, and, thinking
that it would be pleasant to her to hear, I
mentioned that you had been telegraphed for
and would be here immediately — an announcement
which, to my consternation, she received
with every sign of excited aversion. No, you
must just have patience, Armitage, and trust
that all will come right in the end.'

This new trial was hard to bear, yet, now that
he knew Mona's life was not in danger, Armitage
realised how greatly he had dreaded her illness,
and the revulsion of feeling enabled him to look

with more equanimity on an unpleasant state of
things which, however, he felt assured, would
only be temporary. Their child was a girl, and
seemed in no way to have suffered from the
shock of the carriage accident ; but it was with
feelings more akin to pain than pleasure that
Hew at times took the little thing in his arms,
for he could not help feeling that she was the
material symbol of that which kept husband
and wife at present apart. He saw little of her,
however, but was satisfied when he heard that
it was because Mona grew restless and unhappy
when her babe was long away. They did not
tell him that she could not bear the idea that
the child was in his arms.

In vain Dr. Steele endeavoured to find if by
any possibility there was some real cause for
any misunderstanding on the wife's part, but
only with the result that he became thoroughly
convinced that Mona's head had been affected
by the shock of the accident, and that she had
taken this extraordinary dislike on account of
some strange derangement, which he could not,
in the meantime, see his way to affect. He

knew that this partial derangement might go as
suddenly as it had originated, but, on the other
hand, that it might develop into an engrossing
idea as irremovable as the most confirmed form
of monomania.

A week had passed, and Armitage had not yet
seen his wife, or, rather, she had not seen him
for, overcome by his longing to look on her
dear face again, he had ventured into her room
one night when assured by the nurse that Mrs.
Armitage was asleep. Mona had dozed gently
again while holding her baby in her arms,
and she looked more beautiful than Hew had
ever thought her before. But even if he had
not promised the nurse to remain only a few
moments, he could hardly have controlled himself
to remain quiet during a longer period, for
the tears of love and pain burned in his eyes,
and he felt that if only Mona would waken and
look upon him her strange illusion would pass
away at once. But, with the remembrance of
Dr. Steele's emphasised warning, he knew that
he must risk nothing.

A month dragged wearily on for Hew Armytage.
He heard daily good general reports as
to the health of mother and child, but even Dr.
Steele no longer dared to mention his name to
Mona, on account of the fearfully excited state
it threw her into.

One day he broached the subject suddenly,
so that her nerves might not be unstrung by
the unpleasant process of his feeling the way.

My dear friend,' he said, ' you must listen
to what I have got to say to you. As your
physician, I am bound to tell you that your
carriage accident is responsible for a slight and
temporary mental derangement, which takes
the form of a most painful hallucination. You
know that I speak of your present feeling towards
your husband. Now, in the first place,
you ought to take my word for this — then, if
you find that in your present state your hallucination
(for hallucination it is, in spite of your
gesture of dissent) proves too strong for your
resolution, I think it is your duty to tell me
on what grounds it is based, and to what it
points. Remember, I am not asking you to

see Hew at present, nor will I so endeavour,
until I knew the time has arrived when it can
be done without hurting you ; but you must see
yourself that the present state of affairs is
impossible of continuance for any length of
time.'

1 Yes, it is impossible,' replied Mona, quietly.
Beyond a steadily-growing paleness, and a just
perceptible nervous tremor about the mouth
while Dr. Steele was speaking, she seemed quite
composed.

Well, do not you believe my word that you
are labouring under an hallucination V

I believe that you believe so.'

< Is that all V

6 Yes. You speak according to your knowledge
; 1 act according to mine.'

You know that you may trust me absolutely,
Mona Armitage. Tell me in what way
and on what grounds you are feeling as you
do.'

I can tell you nothing. Dr. Steele, I insist
on your not referring to this subject
again. If you do, I will have to decline seeing

even you, and you must know how deeply
I should regret being forced into any such
course.'

Mona had scarcely finished speaking ere her
voice broke in wild sobs, and, throwing herself
back on her sofa, shook as with some despairing
agony.

After this Dr. Steele determined to let her
hallucination die a natural death, which he felt
assured it would do if she were not confronted
with her husband in the meantime.

But as in the outer world there cannot be
great disturbances without the compressed
forces of Nature finding a safety-valve somewhere,
in the whirlwind or the thunder or the
volcano, so it is in the smaller world of human
life. The dual current of Hew's and Mona's
married life had reached a point where it was
met with unexpected obstructions. If it evaded
or overcame these all might be well, but if the
difficulties proved too great the current would
be split into two, one perhaps passing into
waste marshes, and the other dashing headlong
over precipitous rocks into some deep chasm.

The first day of approaching winter had arrived,
and the ground was white, even throughout
the sunny noon, with crisp hoar frost. Later
on the sky grew grey, and a few flakes of snow
began to fall.

When Armitage reached the little station
about five o'clock, it was already dark, and the
cold had become intense, though there were
symptoms that the sudden frost would evaporate
soon in a storm of wind or rain. He had
come by an earlier train than he had intended,
so neither his horse nor his drag was awaiting
him. However, the distance was not so great
but that he was rather glad of the opportunity
in which to walk off his weariness and apprehension,
if possible. But as he strode
along the Dunluiart Road his spirits, instead of
rising, fell lower and lower. There was something
very depressing in this sudden wintry
gloom. Everything was silent, for the frost
had already become so far arrested that there
was audible nothing of that crackling which
is to be heard on even the stillest winter's
day when the ground is frozen. The robins,

sheltered in the hedges, sat close, and made
not even the faintest twittering. Armitage
realised that never before had he witnessed
the death-likeness of winter so strikingly manifested.


In addition to the darkness, a thick mist had
risen from the low meadows that skirted the
road before its gradual rise to Firnie. Two or
three times Hew stumbled over some large stone
or heavy rut, and as the mist deepened into a
fog, that shut out the stars and prevented his
seeing a yard in front of him, he frequently
wished that he had not neglected to telegraph
for the dog-cart.

He was about the last man to succumb to
baseless superstitious fears, nor did such at
present beset him ; but he felt an almost intolerable
depression, an apprehension which he could
by no effort shake off.

'A nice night in which to meet some desperate
character,' he muttered, below his
breath, instinctively grasping his stick as he
did so.

The road at this point had been newly

strewn with rough clinkers, so he left it for
the slip of turf that ran along the hedge to the
left. Along this he walked like a shadow, only
distinguishable from such by the dull light in
his eyes and the breath that hung before his
mouth.

Hark ! what was that ? In front of him he
distinctly heard a sudden sound like a foot upon
gravel.

Stopping, he listened intently. A minute
passed, and, no further sound making itself
heard, he advanced slowly. Again! Distinctly
the clinkers that were scattered along the
turfed side-path had been crunched by the foot
of some person — and this time quite close. Hew
had himself kicked aside a stone even as his ear
caught the sound of the second footstep, and
apparently the person in front of him had heard
it, for there was such an absolute stillness that
any except the most guarded footstep would
inevitably be heard.

Strangely enough, it did not occur to Armytage
that most probably the person in front of
him was some belated traveller, or possibly one

of the gardeners or other people in service at
Firnie Knowe ; his nervous system had been so
strained of late that even an ordinary incident
seemed to him pregnant with exaggerated
significance. Still, even allowing for this, there
was something unpleasant, if not actually alarming,
in his present circumstances. In vain he
endeavoured to pierce the impenetrable veil
which night and fog had together wrought. He
felt convinced that some one was in front of him,
yet uncertain as to whether that person knew
of his proximity or not. Stepping forward with
such extreme caution that even his own footsteps
were inaudible, he stopped abruptly as he
fancied he heard the sound of quick breathing
close at hand.

The mist grew denser still, so that he could
not see his own hands unless held close to
his face, and then only in shadowy outline.
He realised how helpless a blind man
must be even in a locality with which he was
acquainted.

Another step and he stumbled over the
crouching body of a man, who at once

VOL. I. M

grappled with him in a sudden, speechless,
savage struggle.

Hew felt that his antagonist, if a smaller
man, was remarkably lithe and powerful. All
around brooded the deep fog, obscurer than the
most absolutely starless and moonless night;
not a sound came from roadside or meadow;
not an owl swooped through the dense atmosphere
; not a dog barked in the distance ; nota
breath of wind stirred even a single withered
leaf. Not a sound either was emitted by the
two men who struggled there in the darkness,
save their panting breaths and the scraping of
their feet against the ground as they wrestled
with all their strength for mastery. At length
the superior force of Armitage gained the upper
hand ; but his opponent's powers of resistance
were too obstinate to give way even after the
ultimate result was inevitable. Hew realised
that if the latter had had an accomplice he himself
would have stood no chance of his life ; as it
was he was taxed to the uttermost to clench his
victory.

Slowly he bent the man backward, then with

a sudden twist hurled him to the ground, and
held him there with an iron grasp on his throat,
while he knelt on either arm so as to prevent the
man snatching any weapon from his belt. He
had conquered at last, but how was he to find
out who his opponent was,

Who are you V he cried, hoarsely ; then
feeling that the man could not speak because of
his throttling grasp, he relaxed his hold on his
throat.

Take your hands away from me, James
Murdoch, and don't add murder to your other
crimes.'

6 What the devil do you mean ? To whom
are you speaking?'

'I'm speaking to you, James Murdoch, and
you know well what I am saying.'

And who may you be, pray V

'My name is Gavin, and, as you probably
know, it is that of a certain detective-officer.'


Get up, and let us get out of this cursed
fog!'

Mr. Gavin did get up with amazing alacrity,

M 2

but, brave man though he was, he hardly dared
to pnt the handcuffs on his late opponent, knowing
the fate he would almost certainly meet if
he did. But it was a mystery to him what
Murdoch meant, and how he risked keeping in
such company : it must be with some treacherous
design — was it to lead him towards some
quagmire, or perhaps deep pool, where a murdered
man might be thrown in with comparative
safety against discovery? Gavin did not
know the locality thoroughly, and there might
easily be such places, of which he had caught
no glimpse hitherto. What a fool he was not
to have brought that revolver ; but he felt comforted
as by a stealthy search he found that his
large clasp-knife was in his pocket. Opening
this, he kept it in readiness, determined not to
be taken at a disadvantage. As his companion
vouchsafed no communication, he kept silence
also ; and so the two men walked silently onward
side by side for about half-a-mile.

Gavin was puzzled at their keeping to the
road, but was still more so when his companion
knocked at the door of a cottage, which the

former could only guess to be the lodge of
Firnie Knowe.

The wife of the head-gardener opened the
door, and in the sudden flood of light the detective,
to his intense amazement, beheld Hew
Armitage in place of the James Murdoch with
whom he imagined he had been struggling.

i Give me that lantern there, Susan. It's
so thick that I can't see my way up the
avenue

Had he been a little less excited or preoccupied,
he would have noticed that the woman
was in tears, and that she looked at him
strangely. Gavin noticed this, and as soon as
they had left the lodge he spoke.

'I wonder what's the matter with the gardener's
wife, sir. Did you see that she was
crying, and that she looked at you strangely V

My good friend, fancy being astonished at
a woman being in tears ! And, as for her looking
at me strangely, I have no doubt I don't
look very reputable after our little tussle down
the way. How on earth was it that you came
to be lying where you did, and that you mistook

mo for somebody else ? — and, by-the-by,
who is James Murdoch, and what do you know
about him V

It's rather an unpleasant story, sir, so if it's
all the same to you, we'll wait till we get to the
house, especially as your grip has given me
rather a turn, and I 'ud be none the worse of a
drop o' whisky.'

'Come on, then,' replied Armitage, impatiently,
and in a few minutes the two men were
inside Firnie Knowe.

Leading the way into the smoking-room,
where a bright fire was burning, he motioned
the detective to be seated, and to help himself
to the spirits that stood on a side table.

'Now, Gavin, let me hear what you have to
say, and excuse my seeming abruptness in
hurrying you thus, but I feel worried and tired
to-night, and have some things I want to see
to at once.'

Well, sir, I will tell you what I have to
say as briefly as possible, only premising that
you must bear with me to the end, however
much you may feel disinclined to hear me out

for my communication is not a pleasant
one.

I have for some time past, but in vain, been
endeavouring to lay my hands on a certain Mr.
James Murdoch. This person is well-connected
in Edinburgh, and once held a good enough
position in an insurance-office there, which he
lost by embezzlement. The matter, however, was
hushed up, and Murdoch suffered no other evil
from it than being turned adrift alike by the
Company and by his friends. Beyond several
disreputable but not legally criminal incidents
in his subsequent life in Edinburgh we know
nothing further than that about a year ago he
went to London, where all trace of him was
lost. It was only after much roundabout procedure
that I learned that it was this very
person who had presented the notes at various
banks in Edinburgh — the notes, I mean, that
were paid in Dundee in return for the forged
cheque. I strongly suspected that he was
acting in concert with some one else, and my
suspicions became confirmed when I found that
he was seen twice in Firnie Wood. I could

have had him arrested on suspicion, but it
might have led to nothing ; and, moreover,
there was a reason why I had to proceed with
the utmost caution, a reason other than that
connected with the actual capture of the guilty-person.
That Murdoch was in this instance a
partial dupe, I felt certain ; anyhow, I never fora
moment imagined him to be the forger. The
man I set to watch him in Edinburgh turned
out to be a fool at his trade, and lost sight of
him on two occasions that might have led to
something important. On the first he traced
Murdoch to a low music-hall, and there he
overheard him say to a woman in his company
that she needn't cut up rough, as he had a
sweetheart in the country who was not only a
lady of rank, but who gave him as much money
as he wanted.

Wait a minute, Mr. Armitage, you needn't
rise to ring the bell. You must hear what
I've got to say — believe it or not as you
like.

Well, on hearing this the man came back to
the office to report — but when he went again to

Gordon Street, where Murdoch was lodging,
he found the bird had flown. Probably the
latter had left the town, or he may have been
in close hiding, but in any case we lost sight of
him for close upon three weeks, when one day
the same constable — in plain clothes, of course
having caught sight of him at the Princes
Street Station, followed him to the Clarendon
Cafe, which the latter entered in company with
the same gentleman to whom he had been
speaking at the station. They were about ten
minutes inside, and when they issued again
they sprang at once into a hansom, and got
clean away before our fool of a new hand even
noticed the cab-number. Here was occasion
number two lost. A thorough search was
instigated, but at last I had to come to
the conclusion that Murdoch was not in Edinburgh.


What I have now got to say may or may
not have any weight with you. One day I
received an anonymous letter which I am bound
to say I had every reason to believe a genuine
communication. It practically advised me to

concentrate my attention upon some one within
Firnie Knowe. I did so, and with the following
results :

Firstly, I found that Mrs. Armitage had been
seen on three separate occasions walking with a
stranger in Firnie Wood.

Secondly, on one of these occasions she was
overheard to say to her companion (whom my
informant did not see sufficiently well to describe),
" You must not drive me too far," and
he replied to the effect that she had enough and
to spare, and that " there would be a fine scandal
some day, anyhow."

Thirdly, after many inquiries, I found that
frequently of late a strange gentleman had put
up for a night or so at the " Grasston Arms," at
the small village of Grasston, four miles to the
north of Firnie Wood.

Fourthly, having left instructions that 1
should be communicated with at once if the
gentleman came again, I one night lately got a
telegram to say that he was there. But, as
Grasston is not a telegraphic place, the message
had come in a roundabout way, and had reached

me too late to be of any good that night, so all
I could do was to arrange to leave Dundee
(where I unfortunately was at the time) the
first thing the following morning. When I
reached the " Grasston Arms " I found that my
gentleman had gone. Naturally I was much
chagrined, but I made two subsequent discoveries
which recompensed me after all. On
searching the bed-room in which he had slept,
I noticed that he had had a fire the night previous,
and I also saw that below the fire-place
lay some charred and half-burnt fragments of
paper. Among these I found a partially-destroyed
envelope, upon which, however, I
could make out the addressed's name, viz.,
James Murdoch." I forgot to tell you that the
gentleman had been known at the " Grasston
Arms " under the name of Armstrong. Later in
the day I came upon a second important link.
By a lucky chance question of a boy whom I
met in the road, a cow-boy to Farmer Johnston
of the Lees, I learned that the lad had been
going a message to Firnie Knowe, and that ashe
went along he kept tossing a penny from

hand to hand. In the twilight he missed his
clasp once, and the penny shot into the hedge to
his left. Determined not to lose it, he dived in
among the hips and haws, but, not finding it,
fell a-crying and ultimately asleep. When he
woke up he found it quite dark, save for the
moonlight that lay along the fields. He was
just going to creep out of the hedge when he
saw a man coming stealthily along Firnie Road,
seemingly expectant for some interview ; but
after hanging about for some few minutes he
proceeded, followed by the lad, till he came to
Firnie Knowe avenue. In the darkness caused
by the trees, the man was suddenly lost to view,
though the boy (who evidently thinks now that
he witnessed something supernatural) assured
me that he vanished into the air. All that the
lad could tell me further was, that he thought he
heard a low whistle, and that, as later on he
ventured to draw near to the house itself, he
was certain he saw a woman pass through the
shrubbery.

'Fifthly, on examination of the shrubbery
close to the house, I did find something — a

woman's lace handkerchief, with the initials

m. a a.

And, sixthly, having this afternoon heard
that the person calling himself Armstrong had
again turned up at the " Grasston Arms," and that
he had gone out for the evening, as he said, I
concluded I would wait in Firnie Road and see
what luck I would have. I had not long hidden
myself in the hedge before the dense mist came
down, and as I feared that Murdoch alias Armstrong
might slip past me unheard, as well as
unseen, I determined to go on to Firnie Knowe,
and wait in the avenue close to the house. It
was while doing this that I fancied I heard a
step on the gravel behind me ; hearing nothing
further, I stooped to the ground, so as to catch
the least vibration of sound ; and, just as I became
assured that some one was near, you
stumbled over me, and I thought that I had got
hold of Mr. Murdoch with a vengeance.

There, Mr. Armitage, that is what I have
got to tell you. What conclusion would you
draw yourself, sir, if you were reporting on a
wholly impersonal case V

< 1 think your argument weak from first to
last, Mr. Gavin, and I am quite convinced that,
on at any rate one or two points, you have been,
intentionally or unintentionally, misled, I grant,
however, that there is something mysterious
about this Mr. Murdoch. Well, tell me frankly
what your suspicions lead to

What I have just told you, sir, convinces mein
my belief that the person who abstracted and
forged the cheque was Mrs. Armitage.'

When I stop your speaking further, Mr.
Gavin, it is not because I feel your remark an
insult, for, in the first place, you do not know
my wife, and, in the next, I believe that you
announce your judgment reluctantly, but I do
so because I feel it is an utter waste of time to
discuss the matter. What you say is wholly
impossible. If you had tried to prove to me
Mrs. Armitage loved some one in a way that she
had no right to do, I might have been at first
startled into suspicion, but what you suggest is,
as I have said, wholly impossible. To show
you how absolutely I disbelieve you, I request
you to lose no time in finding out something

more about this person whom you have been
tracking. He may be on Firnie Road by this
time.'

At this moment a knock came to the door,
and a piece of paper was handed by the servant
to Mr. Gavin. It was from the landlord of the
6 Grasston Arms,' and was to the effect that he
had just had a telegram from Dundee from
Mr. Armstrong to say that the latter would be
unable to return as arranged, and adding
that no baggage had been left by the gentleman.


1 Missed him again,' muttered the detective,
in a tone of intense chagrin.

'Well, Gavin, what are you going to do
now V

6 This may be a hoax also, but I'll risk it,
and go back to Dundee at once. I may come
across him there. But I'm as absolutely convinced
as before as to whose door the main
guilt should be laid at.'

You may go, Mr. Gavin. I decline to discuss
the subject ;' and even as Armitage spoke
the officer bowed stiffly and left the room.

Rising wearily, Hew went and stood by the
fire, buried in thought. Some minutes passed
thus before he rang the bell, and when the servant
appeared asked if Mrs. Andrews, the nurse,
were upstairs or down.

She is downstairs, sir,' said the man, who
seemed nervous and excited.

'Anything the matter, Williams?'

'No, sir — yes, sir — I mean no, sir. I'll tell
Mrs. Andrews to speak to you, sir?'

< Yes.'

In a minute or two the nurse appeared, and
in very evident trepidation.

Mrs. Andrews, how is my wife to-day ?'

She was all right when I last saw her, sir ;
and stronger than I've ever known her, though
she seemed strange and excited like. That was
about noon.'

Do you mean to say you haven't seen her
since noon? Has she been alone since then?'

But all Mrs. Andrews did, by way of reply,
was to burst into tears and sob demonstratively.


'What in heaven's name does this mean,

woman? Speak out at once. Is there anything
the matter with Mrs. Armitage V

6 Oh, sir, don't ask me, don't ask me ! I'm
all nutter, sir, and — and — I — I — I,' and here
Mrs. Andrews' grief burst out afresh.

Furiously ringing the bell, Armitage was
answered so rapidly as to suggest there having
been some one at the door beforehand.

Williams, what is the matter with this
woman ? Is she mad, or drunk, or what %
Speak out at once, man ; I'm in no humour for
any nonsense.'

'Forgive me, sir, but none of us know what's
become of Mrs. Armitage. She left the house
shortly after noon in the pony-phaeton, taking
the baby with her, in charge of Nellie, the third
housemaid. About an hour or so later, Nellie,
turned up again, saying that her mistress had
never spoken a word to her all the way, till at
last she suddenly pulled up the pony and
ordered Nellie to get out and go home. The
girl hardly knew what to do, but she was
frightened, and so did as she was told. Then
Mrs. Armitage drove on, and we heard nothing

VOL. I. N

more till about an hour ago Maxwell, the
carrier, told us that he had seen the pony walking
sedately along before the empty phaeton,
and that as he wasn't busy he turned and
brought it back to Firnie Knowe. He saw
nothing of Mrs. Armitage. Dr. Steele had
just left the house, sir, and had ridden off
before you came in, in the direction that Nellie
saw her going when she was told to leave the
phaeton.'

A sudden great fear fell upon Hew. Nothing
definite shaped itself in his mind, but only a
great dread of the long imminent crisis which
had now arrived, for unquestioningly he recognised
that the inevitable crisis had now come.
He told Williams and the nurse to leave the
room, and then walked up and down for sometime
in what would have appeared to any
spectator deep thought, but which was more a
sudden and inexplicable mental apathy.

A thought suddenly struck him, and he ran
hastily upstairs to his wife's room. Eagerly he
looked about, but whatever object he sought
was not there. On going into his dressing-room,

his gaze was at once arrested by a small
piece of writing-paper pinned to the cloth that
lay before the looking-glass. On this paper was
written the single word Farewell, and the handwriting
was that of Mona.

It is almost impossible to foretell how any
individual will act during some unexpected and
eventful crisis ; sometimes the weak become
strong, and the strong weak. If Armitage had
ever been asked how he would have acted under
similar circumstances, he would probably have
emphatically stated that his only relief wo aid have
been in instantaneous action, and that he would
have ceaselessly prosecuted the search after the
missing one. As a matter of fact, he sank on a
low chair beside the dressing-table, holding the
scrap of paper before him, and staring at it with
a look of dull despair.

An hour passed, and, urged by the other
servants, Williams went upstairs to see if Mr.
Armitage wanted anything. Finding the
smoking-room empty, he looked into the other
rooms in succession, but seeing that his master
was in none of them concluded he was

n2

upstairs. With some hesitation he knocked at
the dressing-room door, and, receiving no
answer, looked in. Armitage was still sitting
in a crouching attitude, gazing fixedly but
vacantly on the slip of paper he held in his
hand.

If you please, sir, did you ring V

No answer.

Mr. Armitage, sir !'

No answer.

1 Mr. Armitage,' (louder) ' — if you please, sir,
can I get you anything, or have you any orders
to give me V

Hew looked up, and said simply,

'No.'

Another hour passed, another, and another.

A sudden ring of the hall-door bell startled
the household, all alert as everyone was for
some new development of the mystery. On
opening the door Williams let in Dr. Steele, who
at once inquired if the man's master were in and
in what room.

'Any word of Mrs. Armitage, sir?'

Show me where Mr. Armitage is, Williams ;'

and, without vouchsafing any further answer,
Dr. Steele followed till he reached the room
in question, when he thanked Williams in a
tone that also decidedly said, ' You need not
linger here.' But just before he turned the
handle the servant whispered to him,

1 Mr. Armitage has sat in the same position
for the last two or three hours. He seems quite
dazed, sir.'

Entering the room, he closed the door
behind him, and then walked over beside
Armitage, and laid his hand on the latter's
shoulder.

Hew, my boy !'

Armitage looked up at the kindly and familiar
tone, and for sole reply handed the doctor the
scrap of paper — ' Farewell. 9

Dr. Steele repressed a sigh as he wondered
what terrible significance lay in this word in
this instance. What did it point to — madness,
death, dishonour ? Not the last, surely, whatever
Mona might be ; and yet how horribly some
things pointed thereto. It was not without
difficulty that he succeeded in rousing Hew

from his apathetic despair, and then only when
he said that a slight but possible clue had been
discovered.

1 What ? Tell me what you know — tell me
what you think,' Hew cried, springing to his
feet.

Mona told Nellie to leave her when they
were passing North Ratho, a short distance
from where the road diverges into four forks.
When I reached this point on horseback I
followed the Dunluiart Road, the same upon
which the carrier discovered the phaeton and
pony, but when I came to Dunluiart I found
that no stranger had passed through the village
that day. I felt convinced that your wife had
not taken either of the eastern roads, because
both are at present so muddy and rutted as to
be almost impassable, so I struck across the
fields to the Grasston Road, and soon reached
the village, but there also I failed in getting
any information. Remembering that a earner's
coach ran twice a week from Grasston to Perth
via Glencarse and the scattered hamlets en route?
I looked in at the " Grasston Arms " to learn if a

lady had left that day, but was assured that
there were no travellers at all, the landlord,
moreover, remembering that the carrier had
complained of dull times, and that he did not
expect to get a single traveller this turn. I was
just having a little whisky and water before
leaving, when one of the stablemen came in fora
light to his pipe, remarking, after he had
nodded good-evening to the landlady, that old
John (by whom he meant the carrier) had got a
passenger, after all.

1 " How was that ?" asked the landlord.

" Weel, I was just returning' frae Smawoodie
with the bay mare when I saw auld John's
machine come bobbin' along the road. To my
surprise a laddie cam' foot frae Grasston Woods
an' stopped auld John — at least she mauna hare
been a laddie, ye ken, but I thocht sae at the
time. Whaup I gazed by them I could see
her for the wood, but I nodded to auld John, wi'
a wink, as much as to say that he was in luck
after all, but the grumpy auld carle only mumbled
foot, ' Sma' luck's better than name.' "

So you see, Armitage, this points to a double

conclusion, granting that the carrier's passenger
was Mona — firstly, that no mischance has happened
to her ; and, secondly, that she has gone
away alone.'

It may be so, Steele, but I have little hope
of it. Mona could have gone away with much
greater speed and safety from some railway-station
in the districts round about, and in Perth
she would be traced as easily as in Firnie. Then
what could she be doing in Grasston Woods,
miles away from where she left the phaeton !
and I don't believe Mona ever knew that a
carrier's coach went from Grasston to Perth, or
at any rate the days upon which it did so. And,
lastly, the stableman made no mention of the
woman he saw having a baby with her, and,
whatever else Mona may have done, I am convinced
she would not have parted with her
child. And yet, I don't know. I feel as if I
were arguing against reason.'

1 Partly from a mistake of mine, Armitage,
for I forgot to add that I asked the stableman
if the woman had a baby, and he replied
that, if she hadn't, she had something very

like one, as she had a bundle in her arms,
besides a small black bag which she carried in
one hand.'

'Then let us go at once. The last train
has passed ; but if we get the dog-cart out
we'll reach Perth earlier than if we waited
for the morning express. But, no, my good
kind friend, you are already tired out. You
stay here, I pray, and, if anything should
occur in my absence, all will be well in your
hands.'

As Dr. Steele was very much exhausted with
his unwonted exertion and excitement, he was
forced to agree to this, and lay down accordingly
as soon as Armitage had left.

As the light vehicle sped through the darkness,
Hew felt as though he lived only in the
present, as if a future were as remote from him
as his past.

On, on, past shadowy clumps of trees and
shrouded hedgerows, past strong-smelling ture
and low, wayside cottages— every
yard, he prayed, a link in the chain that would
connect him again with Mona. As he neared

the North Grasston by-way, which ran across
the Perth Road, his ears caught the rapid beat
of a horse's hoofs in full gallop. Nearer and
nearer the latter came. Armitage tightened his
grasp on the reins as he approached the point
where the main road was bisected by the other,
and sharply checked the horse's speed as he saw
that the rider would cross a moment or so
before he would. The moon was shining with
a wet, murky gleam, but its light was strong
enough to let him recognise the rider's face as
the latter sped northward in furious haste.
Armitage sprang to his feet in the swaying dogcart,
and shouted out, with fierce energy, ' Come
back !' but the rider either did not hear, or paid
no attention, and in a few moments even his
horse's gallop grew indistinct. The horseman
was Charles Leith.

CHAPTER VI.

HONOUR OR DISHONOUR.

The sight of Leith had aroused a wild fury in
Armitage : but just as he was about to turn the
horse's head up the North Grasston Road and
lash the animal into swift pursuit, a double flash
of reason prevented him from this foolishness.
In the first place, he could never make up on
Leith, he in a dog-cart and the latter well-mounted,
as Armitage had half unconsciously-noted
; and in the next, here was evidence that
Leith was not with Mona. No, he would hurry
on to Perth.

On, on again. Rousing quiet little hamlets
into startled attention, and frightening more
than one poacher as he and his comrades lurked

near some forest boundaries. An hour later
and Morpheus was reached, and at the ' Thole
Arms ' a fresh and good horse obtained. Then
on once more along the flat, long road, looking
from a distance like a flying cloud-shadow more
than a thing of actuality. Armitage could not
shake the coincidence of meeting Leith out of
his mind.

Curse him,' he muttered. ' I thought he
had been disposed of for good, yet here he is
again, and this night of all nights. Where was
he coming from when [they had passed each
other 1 Grasston and Firnie lay behind him, soif
he had not long left either of these places
he could not possibly have been in the company
of Mona.' Armitage's thoughts revolved constantly
round this central fear as the moths
circle round a single flame in a dark room.
4 Could a message have been given him of vital
importance 1 Was he going to meet some one
at a changed rendezvous, and, if so, where was
the latter 1 Let me see ; is there an inn at North
Grasston % No. So it could hardly be there,
unless all risks were recklessly run. What lies

beyond the hamlet? Nothing but the long
country road and a few cottages, and one or
two private houses on estates ; nothing till the
railway line is reached, with small stations at
long intervals at which few trains stop. Wait
a moment — there's Brothel Junction, where even
the mail-express will wait for a first-class passenger
for the south. What if Leith was hurrying
thither to join the night-mail f He would
be in Perth from two to three hours at least
before I'll get there, and if Mona were at
the station they would be in Glasgow or Edinburgh
before any telegraphic message could be
flashed along the lines. Good Heavens, what am
I thinking of! I must be mad indeed to allow
such thoughts to take possession of me. Yes,
Mona, my darling, if there's insanity in the
question, it is I who am insane. Mad, mad a
dozen times over to doubt you.'

Two o'clock ! He heard the hour sounded
from the bell-tower of some unseen village
church. At this hour it is well-known that a
change in the weather for better or worse is
more significant than at any other time; and

now the sky began to clear, and the moon in
her crescent shone forth with a mellower light.
Hew noticed this, and took it as a good omen,
further encouraging himself by repeating that
the dawn lay behind this promise. Did he
think it was summer-time that already he
looked for the dawn, which would not yet befor
hours f

At last, as the dog-cart breasted a rising and
turned to the left, a glimpse was to be caught
of faintly glimmering lights — the lights of
Perth. Half-an-hour later he drove up to the
chief hotel, and astonished the stableman by
asking if a lady with a child were staying in
the house.

'I'll ring the night-bell for ye, sir, and I
daresay the waiter will be able to tell ye,' replied
the man, suiting his action to his words,
and adding inwardly, ' What's the go now, I
wonder? Perhaps she's a runaway from him, or
perhaps he's a-joining of her in flight. Parties as
arrives before dawn and asks for a lady, with or
without a kid, lays themselves open to suspicion,
I think.'

Not for many minutes was the night-bell
answered, and, when at last the waiter appeared,
it was only to sulkily and sleepily assure his
disturber that no such person as he sought was
in the hotel. From the * Royal ' Armitage went
in turn to every hotel and inn in Perth, having
first, however, gone to the station and learned
that the night-porters there had noticed no lady
with a child and without luggage — that is, none
who had gone by the late night-mail, but in no
one place did he meet with the faintest clue. Asa
last resource it struck him that he would try
the police-office, and see if by any chance some
information might there be gained. The officer
in charge told him that a thorough search would
be made throughout Perth if the gentleman
wished, but this Hew declined as now useless,
and he was just about to go, when the inspector
called to him, saying that possibly Detective
Warner might be able to tell him something,
but that that personage was at present in his
bed, and could not be seen till morning.

Who is Detective Warner that he should be
able more than anyone else to assist me V

He's in charge of the station at the time of
the mail-trains from the north and south coming
in. A lot of queer characters passes to and fro,
and, as Mr. Warner's fond of disguising himself,
he has lots of opportunities for finding out odds
and ends of useful information. At present he's
keeping a very sharp look-out for certain parties
as are certain, sooner or later, to pass this way
so it's possible he may have taken note of the
lady you're seeking.'

Thanking the inspector, and promising to
return about eight o'clock, Armitage walked to
the station and lay down on a couch in the
waiting-room. How intolerably slowly dragged
the time ! But at last, worn out with anxiety
and fatigue, he dozed off into unconsciousness,
forgetting all his troubles in sleep till, as it
seemed to him, only a few minutes later, a
porter awakened him with the question as to
whether he wanted to catch the up or down
morning mail, as the latter was just about
due.

Looking at his watch, he found it was
shortly after six, so he entered the 

to have some coffee before he went
back to the police-office to see if Mr. Warner
could not be induced to appear earlier than
eight.

While there, he heard the signal-bell ring,
and immediately the shrill whistle of the advancing
train screeched through the station.
A thought flashed across his mind that perhaps
he might recognise some one in it during the
four or five minutes it stayed at Perth, and, as
the train drew up, his eyes rapidly scrutinised
the passengers as they came forth from the
carriages labelled * London,' ' Glasgow,' and
'Edinburgh.' Standing as he was at the entrance
to the refreshment-rooms, most of the
travellers had almost to touch him in passing,
so that he had ample opportunity to look well
at everyone, but without a single recognition.
When all who had hurried out to get some
refreshment had passed him, Armitage walked
swiftly to the first carriage, and then passed
along the line, looking into each one and glancing
at every passenger who had remained.
There were not many, and the faces of all of

VOL. I. O

them were unknown to him, save in one case,
where a man, evidently a commercial traveller,
was lying full-length along the seat of a second-class
compartment, his face hidden in the
voluminous rug in which he was enveloped.

'No one in this train whom I know,' he
murmured to himself, half regretfully and half
relieved.

The guards began calling out to the passengers
to be seated, and the bell rang, accentuating
the general confusion. Armitage strolled
back from the van at the rear, and, without
intention, found himself stopping opposite the
carriage in which lay the man he had noticed
and thought to be a commercial traveller.
The ticket-collectors had almost finished their
inspection, and the station-master was impatient
to get the train away, and was only
waiting till the last ticket-collector gave the
sign.

Now then, sir, are you going by this train f '
said a guard to Armitage, and, on hearing his
reply in the negative, swung-to the door of the
compartment opposite which Hew was waiting.

and, standing on the foot-board, demanded his
ticket of the sleeping passenger. The latter
awoke with surprising rapidity, and did as he
was required; the station-master waved his
hand and whistled, and the train steamed
swiftly out of the station.

But in the brief glimpse Armitage had caught
of the ' commercial ' passenger's face he recognised
features he had seen before. Whose
were they — where had he seen them? Perhaps
the incident had not the faintest significance,
yet why did this face keep haunting him, or,
rather, the dim memory of such a face. No, he
could not remember ; then, seeing that the hands
of the great clock now pointed to twenty minutes
past six, he walked off in the direction of the
central police-office, hoping to find Detective
Warner up, and in about a quarter-of-an-hour
was introduced to that officer.

He told him what he wanted to find out, and,
almost without further questioning, Hew was
informed in return that Sub-Inspector Warner
had seen a lady and child go by a south train
the previous afternoon, not by the English mail,

o2

but either to Glasgow or Edinburgh, he could
not say which.

4 The lady had no luggage with her, saving
a small black bag. I took particular note of
her in case she might be a well-known female
thief in disguise (for I am on the look-out for
such a party, I may tell you), but I saw at a
glance that I had never seen her face before.
She was very pretty, about twenty-eight, I
should think ; but with an anxious look in her
face, almost as if she were escaping from something
she dreaded. I would have paid more
attention to her if I hadn't had my eyes on the
look-out for the special business upon which I
was there. One moment, sir,' he added, ' excuse
my asking, but is your name Armitage V

< It is.'

'Ah, something made me think it must be
you. You see, sir, I have just had a telegraphic
message from Detective Gavin, of the Dundee
branch, telling me to keep my eye on all trains
that pass this morning, firstly, for a lady such
as I've described, and by name Mrs. Armitage,
and, secondly, for a person for whom I've been

on the look-out some time. Unfortunately, I
received this message a great deal too late to
be of any use, for it's hardly likely either of
them will now be in the late morning mail for
the south.'

By " them " do I infer that you believe the
lady and the other person will be found
together?'

Gavin thinks so, but I don't — because I'm
sure that it was Mrs. Armitage I saw yesterday
afternoon, and I'm still surer that if Mr. James
Murdoch had been in the train I should have
seen him.'

Murdoch ! The very man Hew had seen
half an hour ago lying asleep in the second-class
carriage. He remembered now where he
had seen the face before — it was at the Clarendon
Cafe in Edinburgh, and was the man to
whom Leith had spoken the words which the
latter had afterwards so glibly explained away.
Armitage had repeated the man's name aloud in
the sudden rush of memory.

Why, do you know him, sir V

1 Yes ; that is, I saw him once in Edinburgh,

and-under circumstances that made me suspicious.
Do you agree with Gavin in thinking that
this man and my wife are in league V

1 1 don't know enough about the case to say
what I think, sir ; but, knowing what I do of
Murdoch, I should think it very unlikely. Your
wife's a lady, Murdoch isn't a gentleman, and is
an unmistakable blackguard to look at, so there
could hardly be any love-affair in the matter.
As to the forgery, I can only say I don't know
enough about the case to say ivliat I think — but
I know that Gavin's no fool, and his decision
has necessarily great weight.'

Then I may tell you that Mr. Gavin is utterly
on the wrong scent,' said Hew, quietly.

Perhaps so, Mr. Armitage. Anyhow, I should
be glad to get a sight of Murdoch, or even to get
some clue as to when he was last seen within
the last twelve hours.'

I can give you that clue. He was in the
express that went south half-an-hour ago.'

Well, I'm hanged ! So I've missed him
clean. You are sure it was he — and was he
alone?'

'To both questions — yes; but I am sorry
to say I cannot in the least recall with certainty
what portion of the train he was in — though I
fancy it was in a through London carriage. But
there is ample time, surely, to telegraph and
catch him V

i Oh, we don't want to catch him, at least
not yet awhile. We want to keep him in sight,
you understand, for he'll lead us to other game.
But of course we'll telegraph to London, Edinburgh,
and Glasgow, though it's to the first he's
gone, I'm certain. And I will do all that is
possible to find out if any of our people have
seen or can trace Mrs. Armitage — if she's still
alone it will be much easier. No, sir, I would
not recommend you to do 1 this yourself, nor to
wait here. You may rest assured that if any
trace is found of your wife she won't be lost
sight of again, and you will be telegraphed for
at once.'

Leaving instructions that telegrams in such
an event should be forwarded to him both
at Dundee and at Firnie Knowe, Hew went
back to the • Royal Hotel,' and directed the

dog-cart and horse to be sent back by train
the same day, and a few minutes later himself
caught the Dundee train, having first telegraphed
to Firnie Knowe for a horse to be
awaiting him.

In due time he was at home again, if, indeed,
that place could be called home which seemed
to him desolate in the extreme. Everything
was to a casual glance the same, and yet
to him how different it was — as different as a
corpse to the living body. He was met at the
door by Dr. Steele, who, in asking if there was
any word of Mona, showed that he himself had
learned nothing further.

Hew told him all he knew, and both agreed
that there was nothing to be done but to wait
patiently till something was heard from the
detectives.

'I've had Gavin out here again this morning,'
said Dr. Steele, 'to see if he could make
anything out of a mysterious visit we had
again last night. You remember your wife's
having once got a fright before by some night
intruder's face appearing at the window of the

morning-room. Well, last night I spilt an oil-lamp
there accidentally, and the window was
opened a little to let the unpleasant smell
escape. One of the servants in passing the
door thought she heard some one moving about
in the room, though by this time I had left
Firnie Knowe for the Cedars, and no one in the
house, she was certain, could be in the room ;
but, instead of looking in, the stupid lassie went
on till she met Williams, and then told him
what she had heard. Williams told her she
was imagining something, but he went himself
to the room and cautiously opened the door.
There was no one in the room, but he distinctly
heard a step on the gravel-path outside,
and, running to the window, caught a glimpse
of a man hurrying across the garden in the
direction of the avenue. He got the stablemen
and gardeners to make a thorough search in the
grounds, but without success. The intruder
could not have been a big man, nor yet one accustomed
to country life, for the imprint of his
foot on the beds which he crossed in his hurry
is small, and caused by a well-shaped and slight

boot. Gavin has made nothing out of it as yet.'
By midday no news had arrived, so, as much
to distract his mind as anything else, but also to
nip any scandal in the bud that might arise in
the city, Hew went in to Dundee, Dr. Steele
promising to remain at Firnie Knowe and
communicate with him at once if occasion
should arise. He hardly hoped that no word
of this fresh trouble had been bruited about,
but he trusted that it had not gone beyond his
own circle, and if possible his own office, and
that it existed only in some very vague form.
When he joined the train at Firnie he got a
copy of the Advertise*, and began glancing
mechanically through its columns. But his
thoughts did not follow his eyes, and he was
just about to throw the paper aside when he
caught sight of a paragraph headed ' Another
Scandal.' Hastily perusing it, he saw with a
flash of anger that it unmistakably pointed to
him. It was thus :

A rumour is current, to which we would not
have afforded publicity at present if we had not
had reason to give it at least some credence, to

the effect that the wife of one of our most
esteemed citizens, and the representative of one
of the oldest of our Wayside families, has left
her home under peculiarly distressing circumstances.
We make no comments on the particulars
given by a contemporary beyond regretting
that that journal had not contented
itself with giving tongue to the scandal, and
had seen fit to indulge in supposititious explanations,
for we are in a position to state that as
yet absolutely nothing is known of the cause or
causes which prompted the lady's flight.'

At first Armitage could scarcely restrain his
indignation, but on further reflection he came to
the conclusion that it was perhaps as well the
news had found such direct statement, for it
could be rectified in a way that no merely
verbal rumour could be. The editor of the
Dundee Advertiser was known to him a little,
and he already felt indebted to him for the way
in which the paragraph was worded, and he
knew, moreover, that the gentleman in question
would not hesitate to publish any denial which
Hew formulated.

As soon as the train reached Dundee, Arnri-
take drove to the office of the Advertiser. The
editor had not yet arrived, but, after a brief
interview with the second in command, Hew
came forth satisfied that a fitting denial would
appear in the next issue.

When Armitage got home that afternoon, he
found that Dr. Steele had had to leave, but that
nothing material had transpired, the only telegram
that had arrived having been one from
the Perth police-office stating that as yet no
trace had been found of the fugitive, and
that, moreover, Murdoch must have changed
at Carlisle or elsewhere on the road to
London, for there the strictest look-out, as at
Glasgow and Edinburgh, had proved unsuccessful.


Dr. Steele had left because he had no wish to
see Armitage at present. He now believed that
something more than mental aberration was at
the bottom of Mona's flight, but he knew that
even to hint at this just now would be useless,
as well as perhaps endangering the continuance
of the friendship between himself and Hew.

The good doctor had been convinced, despite
much that had previously occurred to puzzle
him, that Mrs. Armitage had gone away under
some strange hallucination ; but that very day
he had received a letter while at Firnie which
had caused him the utmost sorrow. He was
sitting writing when Williams came in and told
him that Jock Mason, the village idiot, had
insisted on seeing him.

How do you know he wants me, Williams,
because the man is deaf and dumb as well as an
idiot V

6 Oh, by certain signs he made, sir,' replied
the man, with a smile of amused remembrance.
4 He wants to hand you something, but he won't
entrust it to me. I think it's a letter.'

Ah, I will see him

But all the doctor's efforts failed to discover
the name or sex of the person who had entrusted
Jock with the missive. The man either would
not or could not understand, and at last the
effort to make him comprehend had to be given
up in despair.

The letter ran thus :

To Dr. Steele, Firnie Knoioe.

i Let no vain search be made. Even if found,
which is now almost impossible, I could never
go back to Firnie Knowe. My guilt is worse
than you imagine : it is double-dyed. Forget
me, and teach him to forget me.

MONA.'

The handwriting was that of Mona Armitage,
and the inference to be drawn from the note
was that she had been the guilty person in the
matter of the forgery, and that also she had in
reality gone away with some man. But what
of the fact of taking the baby with her ?

Armitage was sitting gloomily in his smoking-room,
turning over and over in his mind the
old wearisome facts that he already knew by
heart. A ring at the door-bell. Was it a telegram,
or was it Dr. Steele back, or was it some
visitor ?

A gentleman wishes to see you, sir.'

who is it, Williams f

I don't know, sir. When I asked his name

he told me to say that he wanted to have a
moment with you on urgent private business.'

That Perth officer, I suppose,' Hew muttered,
as he went into the drawing-room.

He started back in undisguised astonishment,
in which resentment was quickly blended. Before
him stood Charles Leith.

Neither spoke for some moments, the visitor
contenting himself with a stiffly polite bow, and
the faint, wicked smile that haunted his face
when anything amused him. Yet what could
have then amused him, unless the aged look
on Armitage's haggard face or the sad despair
that had already taken possession of his eyes
did so ?

To what am I indebted for the honour of
this unexpected visit V

Leith shot a quick, angry glance at his questioner,
as if resenting the tone of icy contempt
in which he had spoken.

'I have called, sir, to do what lies in my
power to justify your wife so far as I am
concerned.'

What have you got to do with my wife V

said Arraitage, with a sudden savage gesture,
and advancing a step or two.

Do not be in such a hurry, Mr. Armitage.
Is it likely that I would have come here if
I had had anything to do with the flight
of Mrs. Armitage. I heard of this event
through the papers, and, as from past circumstances
I felt convinced that your suspicions
would rest on me, I thought it would
only be just to myself, as well as fair to Mrs.
Armitage, to disprove that supposition here in
person.'

'You need not have troubled yourself, Mr.
Charles Leith ; whatever I may have thought of
my wife's conduct, I never imagined that she
could sink to such dishonour as to have even the
faintest association in crime with such a personas
you V

Armitage's fierce sneer had its effect, and fora
few seconds the two men stood facing each
other like a lion and a tiger glaring at each
other in mutual defiance. Leith was the first
to speak.

By heaven ! you shall pay for this !'

'I would to heaven we had met on the open
road, and we would have settled our score
there. I cannot molest you in my own house,
but I can order you out of it, and this I do,
peremptorily. Do you hear V

I hear, Mr. Hew Armitage,' said Leith, with
extreme quietness, and with great deliberation,
but, before doing so, I may warn you that
while you have doubtless had cause to regret
many acts in your life, you will have bitter
reason to ultimately recognise your present
conduct as the greatest folly you have ever
committed.'

Without another word he passed from the
room, Hew standing aside to let him pass, a
scornful smile on his face.

If he could have seen the look on that of
Leith as that personage rode down the avenue,
he might possibly have felt some anxiety.
There was at times something simply devilish
in the absolute cruelty of this man's face, and
never more so than now, when, smiling wickedly,
he muttered as he struck the branches with
his riding-whip,

VOL. I. P

Curse you, Hew Armitage, you'll suffer more
before I've done with you. You owe something
to me already, I think. Ha, ha ! That's some
consolation, anyhow.'

Dr. Steele did not join Armitage that evening,
but sent a message to say that he would come
in the morning, and an inquiry as to whether
anything further had transpired. The horrible
inaction oppressed Hew more than anything
else. If he could only do something, he said,
over and over again to himself — if he could
only ride somewhere, or make some physical
effort of any kind, but this horrible, chilling
patience — it was indeed hard to bear, at times
almost intolerable.

The long night passed, partly in fitful slumber
and disturbed dreams, mostly in restless
tossing to and fro upon the bed. An hour or
two before dawn he arose, and, when in due
course his horse was brought to the door, rode
down to Firnie Station to see if by any
chance any telegram were there awaiting him.
No, no word at all. How dreary and hopeless
it all was. This bitter cold of Nature, did

it not strike into the soul as well as into the
body?

Twice during the day he telegraphed to Perth,
and twice he heard in reply that absolutely no
clue concerning Mrs. Armitage had yet been
found. When he reached Firnie Knowe in the
afternoon, Williams handed him a letter which
had just come. It bore the Dundee post-mark,
and the handwriting was unfamiliar, but extremely
fine and delicate — so much so that he
waited a moment to scrutinise it. Opening the
envelope, and glancing at the signature at the
end of the note, he read, to his utter perplexity,
i Charles Leith.' It ran thus :

'Sir,

You grossly insulted me when I was
at your house last night, and you may rest
assured that under ordinary circumstances your
insult would either have met with fitting chastisement
or have been passed over with the
contempt it deserved. I realised, on calm reflection,
however, that you are at present hardly
in a fit state for argument with one whom

p 2

you (for what reason I know not) mistrust ; and,
to show you how honestly I am putting aside
personal feeling, I now write to tell you that I
am still willing to give you the information
which I last night came prepared to give. For
you were just about to hear some most important
news about your wife when your intolerable
manner prevented my confiding in you. But I
do not wish to cause you further suffering, and
pray you to forget the words that I also spoke.
I can give you definite information about Mrs.
Armitage. As, however, it is for her sake I
am acting, and not for yours, I will not agree to
give you any information unless in strict privacy.
As I cannot cross your threshold again, it would
be better for us to meet somewhere. Let it beat
the base of Ratho Rise, on the North Grasston
Road, about nine o'clock to-night. If you refuse
to come, you will be the slayer of your wife's
reputation, as well as of your own happiness.

4 Charles Leith.'

CHAPTER VII.

A NIGHT MEETING.

Leith's letter was at once a puzzle and an
extreme annoyance to Armitage. Was the
man in earnest, or was the whole thing a trap 1
Hew did not like this sudden forgiveness, or
this demand for a private interview at such a
lonely place as that named. If Leith did not
really have any information to give him concerning
Mona, what could his object be ? It
could hardly be to pay back the insult he had
received, for this would be too risky a game,
however much reliance might be made on some
treacherous blow. Was it possible that the
whole thing could be the cruel and malicious
hoax of a coward ? No, thought Armitage, if

Leith has anything to communicate at all, it
must be something which will in some way or
other signify some good to himself; the
difficulty is how much to believe from such a
man. Quite possibly, however, he saw Mona
on the day or evening of her flight ; he may
even have traced her, and been hurrying home
that night when they had nearly collided at
the junction of the North Grasston and Perth
roads. By-the-by, went on Armitage, in puzzled
mental conjecture, where did Leith live %
He had once spoken of friends across the Sid-laws,
but, if this were so, what was he doing so
often in the neighbourhood of Firnie ; and then
this letter of his — it was post-marked Dundee.
Where would he come from to-night f — certainly
not from the last-named place, but perhaps
from Grasston 1 What a mystery the whole
thing was, and would he ever find the clue that
would lead out of this weary and disheartening
maze?

These and similar thoughts kept sovereignty
over Hew's mind through the wearisomely long
period that had to elapse ere it was time for

hhri to go and keep his appointment with Leith,
for so he had determined to do. It was another
bitter drop in his cup of sorrow to hear just
before he left the house that Dr. Steele was
not feeling well, and would be unable to leave
j^'s bed that evening.

The curse of my misfortunes has touched
even my dear old friend,' he muttered, half
sorrowfully and half angrily.

He had meant to have ridden to the place of
meeting, but reflecting that he would have
time to be at the Cedars before very late, even
if Leith kept him waiting a little, he had the
dog-cart brought round, and told Maxwell, the
under-groom, to come with him.

In less than an hour he was driving swiftly upto
the lower half of the North Grasston Road,
and when he was about a hundred yards from
the point where it curved to the right he drew
the reins and dismounted. ' Wait here,' he said
to Maxwell, and then proceeded alone round
the bend, and along the road till it skirted
Ratho Rise. This latter is a conical grassy
mound, semicircle by a forest of spruce and

fir, its base standing back from the road at a
distance of about fifty yards.

As Armitage walked across the hoar-frosted
turf that lay between the road and the bottom
of the Rise, he could not help acknowledging to
himself that he was glad the moon, though only
half-full, was so high in the heavens and cast
so brilliant a light; for, though he was about the
last man that could be accused of cowardice,
there was something in the remoteness of the
locality, the sombre darkness of the fir-woods,
and the absolute stillness which prevailed, that
was enough to put the strongest nerves on a
tension on such an occasion as this, when
murder was quite possibly entertained by one
of the two men about to meet.

Armitage reached the place of meeting, but
found no one there, though it was already a
few minutes past the time arranged. A great
boulder lay almost midway at the base, and
against this he leaned and watched the stars
scintillating in the black-blue vault above him.
Not a sound broke the stillness around him,
save an occasional crack in the fir-woods

behind, as some frost-bitten branch gave way
and fell to the ground. Once he started
violently as he thought he heard a stealthy
footstep in the spur of wood beside him, but it
was only a rabbit or hare, or perhaps a hungry
fox.

Was it, could it be, a hoax 1 Good heavens,
what if this were only a ruse to get him out
of the way at some momentous time, or if
Leith had some special reason for getting inside
Firnie Knowe, and had hit upon this expedient
as the best for his purpose. So excited was
Armitage by this sudden and startling surmise
that he would have waited no longer had he
not at that moment heard the clatter of a
horse's gallop along the not far distant main
road. Yes, it must be Leith, for the sound of
the horse's hoofs, though nearer, was more
muffled, which showed that the rider had
diverged into the turfed and generally swampy
North Grasston Road. In a few moments
Leith rode right up to where Armitage was
standing. Alighting, he led his horse to the
edge of the wood that skirted the Rise, and

fastened it by the bridle to a sweeping fir
bough; then, turning towards Hew, he apologised
for his punctuality in a tone of haughty
indifference.

'By my presence here, Mr. Leith, you perceive
that I duly received your most unexpected
note. May I request that you at once enter
into explanations?'

1 It is as well that we should understand each
other, Mr. Hew Armitage. If I am willing to
give you some most material information about
Mona — I beg your pardon, I'm sure — Mrs.
Armitage, it is from no wish to enable you to
put an end to your present anxiety.'

Spare me your irrelative remarks, sir, and
come to the point.'

Can you guess why I should be willing to
communicate certain information to you V

I cannot. Perhaps it is from the extremely
kind interest you have always condescended to
feel in my wife.'

Your sneer amuses, it does not sting. Well,
I tell you frankly that I have induced you to
come hither to-night for my own ends. It is at

the same time true that your wife's honour
hinges upon the result of our interview. I have
to tell you, first and foremost, that she has left
Firnie Knowe for good.'

« I do not believe it.'

Very good. Permit me, however, to resume.
Mrs. Armitage will never return home. If she
were found (which is now next to impossible),
and were brought back by force, she would
leave again at the earliest opportunity. It
is not only that she fears the hand of justice
for a certain clever and daring fraud, of her
participation in which you are already aware,
and '

1 You are a liar !'

Time will prove. It is not only this that
would prevent her returning. There is another,
and what you, at least, would consider a more
unforgiveable reason. What I know 1 know,
and am going to tell you just as much as I see
fit, and not a scrap more.'

Was the man mad that he went on thus, with
that terrible light of sullen wrath burning more
and more fiercely in Armitage's eyes ?

The whole matter now lies in a nutshell,
Hew Armitage. Firstly and absolutely, you
have seen the last of your wife. Secondly, I
happen to be possessed of wholly indisputable
evidence to support whatever charges I might
make. Thirdly, it is my intention to proclaim
these charges, secretly or openly as I may see
fit, but none the less surely either way.
Fourthly, you can avoid all this scandal
and shame by agreeing to buy my silence
(and, remember, I am the only person who
knoics anything) at the sum I see fit to
ask.'

Ha ! ha !' laughed out Armitage, scornfully ;
adding, in a tone of bitter irony, ' So I was right
after all in my estimation of your character.
You miserable hound, you can say what you
like, but, for your own sake, you had better be
cautious what you are about. You hound, you
hound ! you to have ever known my wife. My
God ! it makes me quiver with scorn to look at
you. No, Charles Leith,' he thundered, ' if that
be your name, you have made a false move, and
you may throw up your hand !'

I do not think I have made a false move,'
replied the latter, in a quiet and perhaps somewhat
cowed tone: ' anyhow, I still hold the
highest trumps, and so am bound to gain the
game sooner or later.'

This calm, persistent assurance staggered
Armitage. The two men stood facing each
other silently for nearly a minute, and at last
the latter spoke again, and with complete
control.

And pray what is the sum you are considerate
enough to demand?'

If you pay me a thousand pounds before noon
tomorrow, you are free to put your own construction
on your wife's flight. I am the only
person who can definitely prove her dishonour,
and, therefore, there can be no fear of the
scandal becoming known. Pay me this sum, as
I have said, and not only will you never see me
again, but I swear within a week I will send
you definite information as to Mrs. Armitage's
whereabouts.'

And if I do not accede to your modest and
delicate proposal V

Then, by heaven, the very beggars in Dundee
will know that your wife is a thief, a forger,
and a '

Well, you reptile, why do you not finish
your sentence V

6 Are you so very sure of your wife's honour
that you can afford gratuitous insults V

I believe in her utter innocence as thoroughly
as I believe that you are the most loathsome
scoundrel I have ever met P

You fool — so you are really under the impression
that you are the father of Mona's
child V

For a moment it seemed as if Armitage was
going to fall down in a fit ; his body swayed a
little, and quivered like that of a beast of prey
in furious rage.

You lying coward he shouted, hoarsely,
springing at Leith with riding-whip high
uplifted.

At the same moment the latter drew a
revolver from his pocket ; there was a flash, an
explosion, and a bullet was lodged in the fleshy
part of Armitage's shoulder.

It apparently was nothing more to him than
the sting of a wasp. Standing above Leith he
brought down the heavy riding-whip with a
great slash across the latter's face, and tried to
grapple with him, while he simultaneously
raised on high the loaded end of the whip. But
he reeled like a drunken man, and missed his
grasp and blow together, and before he could
recover Leith brought down the butt end of the
revolver upon his head with a savage crash.

Hew fell in a lifeless heap, and once more
there was absolute stillness round lonely Ratho
Rise. His antagonist listened intently, then,
satisfied that there was no immediate danger,
stooped and threw back Armitage's face till the
moon lit it up. The blood streamed across it,
but the wound in the head was hardly sufficient
to cause death ; another searching glance convinced
him that the bullet had touched no vital
part ; the only danger was that the unconscious
man might either bleed to death or perish from
the cold, as he lay helpless.

What the devil am I to do V he muttered,
perplexedly.

Just then a ' hallo ' came from a few hundred
yards away.

Hallo ! Mr. Armitage ! Is there anything
wrong, sir V

It was Maxwell, who had heard the shot, and
whose suspicions had been aroused.

Ah, that's all right,' muttered Leith ; then,
hurriedly tearing off a sheet of blank paper
from a letter in his pocket, he wrote something
upon it, and shoved it into Hew's clenched
hand.

The next moment he was on horseback and
clattering along the roadway at a furious
gallop.

Maxwell evidently heard the latter, for he
called out two or three times successively,
when, finding that he met with no response, he
advanced slowly in the dog-cart. He had
almost passed the Rise, when he fancied he saw
something dark lying on the turf about forty
yards away from the road; alighting, he ran
hastily across the intervening space, and to his
horror found his master lying there, apparently
murdered.

'Perhaps it's been a duel,' he muttered, as his
ears caught the last faint echo of the retreating
hoofs of Leith's horse, 'yet Mr. Armitage was
never the man for that kind of tomfoolery, I
should have thought. But there's no knowing
what gentlefolks'll do when they are doited in
misfortune, as he's been of late.'

Stooping, he took Armitage in his arms, and
half lifted or dragged him to the dog-cart,
wherein it was with the utmost difficulty that
he managed to put him. He had driven rapidly
for about half-a-mile when a deep groan startled
him, and he realised that his master was, at any
rate, not dead yet. Hastily drawing the reins
he took his own and Armitage's handkerchiefs
and bound up the ugly wound in his head, and
then, with his left arm, kept the body in a gentle
incline against himself.

Again and again the deep, unconscious groan
broke from his master's lips, and so profuse was
the blood that oozed out from his chest, as it
appeared to Maxwell, that the latter dreaded
Armitage would die in his arms. Would it not
be wiser, ho thought, to drive to the Cedars

VOL. I. Q

instead of to Firnie Knowe, so that there need
be no delay in a medical examination where
delay only might be fatal ; and suiting the
action to his thoughts, he branched off to the
right, and in a brief time drew up at the Cedars.
Armitage was still unconscious, and was carried
into one of the bed-rooms on the ground-floor.


It did not take Dr. Steele, who, though himself
unwell, did not hesitate to at once attend
to his friend, long to decide that no very material
injury had been done — the fear was that
fever or inflammation might set in.

4 You have said no word about this yet, have
you, Maxwell V

'No, Dr. Steele. When I arrived at the
Cedars, I simply said that an accident had happened
to my master.'

That is right ; and, to avoid being questioned,
you had perhaps better stay here till he
comes round, which won't be long now.'

And truly enough, in a few moments Hew
opened his eyes, and gazed vaguely at the
doctor and Maxwell ; a little later he recognised

them, but was still wholly puzzled, and closed
his eyes wearily. When he next opened them
it was with recovered memory.

Maxwell, what do you know of what happened
to-night?'

4 1 thought I heard voices, sir, about a
quarter-of-an-hour after you had left me — but
there was no mistake when I heard a pistol-shot.
I waited a bit to see what would follow,
and then called out to know if anything was
wrong. There was no answer, and I confess I
began to get a bit frightened. I thought that
perhaps you had been murdered, and that it
might be my turn next. I wasn't a coward
long, however, and called out again and again,
so, getting no answer, I drove forward, and,
just as I came near you, I heard the sound of a
horse retreating at full gallop.'

'Did you see the man who was on the
horse V

I saw neither horse nor man, sir.'

1 Did you notice anything else V

There was a piece of paper in your hand,
sir, and, thinking it might be something of

Q2

value, I took it out and put it in your waistcoat
pocket.'

Thank you, Maxwell, I won't forget the
service you've done me. You may go now ;
but, remember, not a word of this to anyone.'

CHAPTER VIII.

A SNAKE IN THE GRASS.

As soon as Maxwell had left the room, Armitage
asked Dr. Steele to remove the piece of paper
from his waistcoat-pocket and to read what was
on it. The doctor had just extracted it when
Hew changed his mind, calling out,

4 Excuse me, I'll read it myself, after all.'
A few words in pencil only, that ran thus :
If you have any care for your wife's reputation,
let me hear from you on the terms I mentioned,
by tomorrow evening at latest, at the
Buccleuch Arms," Dundee.'

You must now compose yourself, Armitage,'
said Dr. Steele. ' A sound sleep will do you a
world of good, and you will waken up with

nothing more than a bad head-ache and a little
pain

Already the skill of the physician had greatly
alleviated Hew's suffering, and under the influence
of a composing draught he soon fell into a
deep sleep.

I had meant to have told him tomorrow
about Mona's letter, but will have to postpone it
for a time. It might end fatally just now ;' and,
with a sorrowful look in the keen eyes that
looked out from the stern, rugged face, Dr.
Steele returned to his room.

As the doctor had prophesied, Armitage woke
next morning wonderfully well considering all
things. An hour passed before anyone came to
see if he were yet awake, and during this time
he thought out the drift of present circumstances.


He had come to the conclusion that he might
serve a double end by acceding to Leith's preposterous
request, though, when first his consciousness
had returned, and he had dwelt upon
the matter, he had without hesitation decided
in the negative. Not only would he be able to

stop further scandal about Mona (for he had
now determined to let it be publicly known that
his wife had left home, but to do so with a
statement by Dr. Steele to the effect that her
brain was affected, and that she was irresponsible
for her actions), but he might be able to
find out something of her whereabouts by a
careful watch being kept on Leith. As for the
money, it never entered into his mind to grudge
it, if it served his end. After breakfast, he
caused a telegram to be sent to the latter,
stating simply that ' Mr. Armitage would communicate
with Mr. Leith as soon as physically
able.' Aware of Armitage's robust physique as
Dr. Steele was, he was hardly prepared to find
him so well after the events of the previous
night. The bullet, however, had only caused
an irritating but not dangerous wound, and,
though the blow of the pistol-butt had been
severe, it had left nothing behind it but a
painful bruise that entailed constant headache.


Hew determined not to acquaint Dr. Steele
with particulars just at present, for something

warned him (though he would not have allowed
this even to himself) that his friend was far from
being at his ease on the subject of Mrs. Armytage's
flight. So he told him that something
had occurred which he would rather not speak
about just at present, but which he would
explain later on.

The day passed and brought no news of
Mona. She seemed to have disappeared as if
she had sunk into the earth or melted into the
air — for, though once or twice apparent traces
of her had been found, they led to nothing. Ina
letter from Warner, that experienced detective
gave it as his opinion that she was either
in hiding in some remote place or that she was
ill and unconscious, though not in any hospital
in Scotland. At the same time, he added, it
was possible she had gone south and crossed
the Channel, or become lost in London itself.
He did not think she had sailed on any long
voyage from either any Scottish or English
port.

After much thought, Armitage wrote to Leith
as follows :

'Sir,

Until within an hour or two ago, I
could not have believed it possible that I could
have brought myself to communicate with you.
It would probably be a matter of regret to you
that your murderous attempt had not succeeded,
were it not that you would thus have to do
without the money you demanded. If ever we
meet again, and under circumstances where I
hold myself free to act, you will find that I have
not forgotten the incidents of last night.

Meanwhile, my sole care is for my wife's
reputation. I believe in her innocence in everything
as I believe in my religion, but I know
how ready the breath of scandal is to blast the
purest character. For this, and for this alone, I
am willing to treat with you. But regarding
you as I do — namely, as an unmitigated scoundrel,
it is not likely I am going to hand you
over the sum you demand in quite such a ready
manner as you suggested. Here are my conditions,
which you can accept or not as you
please, but from which I will not deviate in the
least particular : —

c 1. I will send you, on hearing of your
agreement to the following, one hundred pounds
in earnest of my promise to ultimately hand you
one thousand pounds.

2. To allow time for the papers to contradict
the scandalous assertions to which they gave
expression (possibly on information directly or
indirectly supplied by you), and to permit of
the truth being made public in the way or ways
I consider most satisfactory, I name the date of
settlement as this day fortnight.

3. If by that time Mrs. Armitage should be
found, or should herself return, I will still pay
you the remainder of the sum agreed upon, but
on condition that you leave for Australia or
New Zealand for good. (I need not say I use
the last words colloquially.)

4. Finally, you must hand me at the time of
settlement an explicit written statement denying
that you know anything detrimental to my
wife's character, and that whatever you may
have said to anyone was said under misunderstanding,
and absolutely without basis.

These are my conditions.

I may remark, however, that the game is by
no means so much in your hands as you seem
to imagine. I have already taken care that if,
on receipt of this, you should decide not to wait
here any longer, you will not be allowed to
leave Dundee, but will at once be arrested by
a detective on suspicion of being at least a
party to the late forgery on my firm. You
forget that your friend, Mr. Murdoch, may have
turned against you.

I have told the bearer to bring me your
answer. If you are agreeable to my terms. I
will at once telegraph to the detective in my
employment and inform him that no watch need
be kept to prevent your leaving Dundee if you
so will.

Hew Armitage.'

With this message Maxwell went into Dundee
by the first train available. It was already
dusk when he reached the ' Buccleuch Arms.'
On asking for Mr. Charles Leith, the waiter
requested his name, and returned in a few minutes
with the remark that Mr. Leith would see

Mr. Armitage's messenger if lie would walk upstairs
to No. 30, on the first-floor.

When Maxwell entered the room he at once
recognised the gentleman who had dined some
months previously at Firnie Knowe. Leith had
been walking up and down impatiently, but
swung round sharply when the messenger was
announced.

Perhaps he suspected some kind of trap, but,
after a quick, keen scrutiny, he either recognised
the man's face or became satisfied that he
was a bond-fide messenger.

Taking the letter, he opened it swiftly, and a
slight flush came into his face when he saw
there was no enclosure. The frown on his
face deepened as he read on, but, when he came
to the concluding portion of the letter, his
face grew deadly pale for a moment, but
whether with rage or fear Maxwell, of course,
could not guess, though he noticed at once the
marked change from composure to agitation.

Leaving the room abruptly, Leith disappeared
into an inner chamber, and his visitor
heard him walking to and fro as if in great perplexity.

Leith could not make out Armitage's
note at all to his satisfaction.

'How much does he know?' he muttered,
and what does he mean about Murdoch ? I
know he's on the wrong scent, but any odd clue
might lead to unpleasant consequences. I'd be
better out of all this ; still, if I could get that
thousand out of him, it would both be a nice
little revenge and of the utmost importance tome.
But what does he mean by saying he
would have me arrested ? He's a fool, after all,
with all his cleverness ; for I suppose it never
struck him that I could send an answer in the
affirmative and then get slick away immediately
after I had received his hundred. Wonder
if he's going to have my movements watched
all the same ? I don't like staying in Dundee
another fortnight, so I'll run up to Aberdeen for
that period. I know no one there, I think ;
and if I am followed on the chance of finding me
near that errant damsel, it's some pleasure to
reflect that it'll be a wild-goose chase. As for
Murdoch, my good friend Armitage, you played
that trump uselessly some time ago, so it's

rather stale now ; let me see, Murdoch sailed
the afternoon before last from Liverpool, so that
the telegram from him via Queenstown is all
right. A good job for him if he gets away safe
to America, judging from what I know of some
recent escapades of his. So he expects to
meet me in New York, does he ? Blessed are
those who expect nothing, for they shall not be
disappointed— and that's your case, my friend.
Yes, I think it's safe enough — though, curse
him for keeping me waiting, and curse him
again and again for this slash across the face,
a mark that won't leave me for many a day
yet. Well, I'll answer briefly and to the point,
simply saying that I agree to his conditions in
all things. We'll see who's cleverest in the end,
Mr. Hew Armitage.'

When Leith entered the front room again, he
was smiling and courteous, though his courtesy
made Maxwell uncomfortable, and his smile was
more treacherous than ever, almost diabolic,
indeed, owing to its accentuation by the livid
purple band across the pale face, caused by
Armitage's heavy horsewhip.

You will give this to Mr. Arinitage, please,
with my kind regards. Has anything been
heard of Mrs. Arrnitage yet % By-the-by, what
is your name? Eh, Maxwell? Well, Maxwell,
I'm one of your master's oldest and best
friends, and this trouble of his has quite upset
me. What's thought about it at Firnie
Knowe?'

6 Don't know, sir, I'm sure,' replied the man,
shortly.

1 Ah, look here, have some whisky. It's a cold
day, and you have a good way to get back.
That'll you have V

1 Nothing, sir, if it's all the same to you. I'll
take that letter, if you please, and be off.'

In a moment. But just tell me first what you
have heard as to the opinion held by Mr. Gavin
and Dr. Steele.'

I don't know nothing about it, sir, and am
not here to answer questions about my master's
private affairs.'

Quite right, quite right. But then, you
see, I have just been asked by your master todo
all in my power to help him solve the

mystery, because he knows I've a natural gift
in the detective line, and so it's necessary that
I hear all that's been done and thought by
other people. Now, if you never yourself heard
anything said by Gavin or Dr. Steele, you
must have talked it over with the other servants
; or, at any rate, you can at least give me
your own opinion. I want to put everything
down in black and white, so I tell you what I'll
do. You tell me everything that happened
that you know of, and what your own opinions
are, and I will give you a sovereign for your
trouble. ,

Leith's mingled command and persuasiveness
made Maxwell hesitate a moment, but
his almost obstinate sense of loyalty prevented
his in any way betraying the trust in him
until he had first spoken to his master on the
subject.

It seems to me, sir, that the simplest way
would be for you to speak yourself to Mr. Gavin
and Dr. Steele, if so be as you're so much interested.
As for my giving you an account of
what I've noticed myself, I won't say another

word about the matter until I have Mr. Armytage's
consent

Seeing that nothing was to be got out of the
man, Leith's manner changed at once, and
became unpleasantly imperative.

'Are you going straight back to Firnie
Knowe V

I'm going by the first train that's suitable

Have you any other message to deliver in
Dundee V

'If there's time, I may be handing in a
message somewhere. The gardener or someone
always wants something.'

What I want to know is, have you any other
message to deliver from Mr. Armytage?'

Well, I'm not sure but what I have

'Where tor

Oh, it's only some trifling private thing

Has he given you a letter to deliver at the
central police-office V

If Fve time, I'm to look in and see if Mr.
Gavin's got any news

'Curse your infernal Scotch caution,' cried
Leith, losing all control at the man's imper-vol.

I. R

tnrb ability. < Get out of this, and look sharp,
or I'll help you downstairs in a way you
won't relish. There's the note for your master,
and the next time I see him I'll tell him
what an insufferable idiot he has in his employment.
'

There was a sly twinkle in Maxwell's
shrewd eyes as he said, while turning to leave
the room,

Very good, sir ; but Mr. Armitage has a fine
heavy horsewhip which you might find handier
to use on me at Fir me Knowe than trying to
kick me downstairs here ;' and he chuckled ashe
heard a deep curse follow him as he closed
the door.

From the « Buccleuch Arms ' he went to
the central police-office, and handed in a
letter from Armitage to Gavin, wherein the
former requested the detective, or one of his
comrades, to keep an eye on Leith's movements
and whereabouts for the next fortnight,
but not to arrest him or detain him in any way
so long as he did not endeavour to leave the
country.

6 Who's this Leith, I wonder, whom he's suspicious
of now?' the detective muttered, ou
perusing this note and the appended particulars
about the gentleman in question. 'This has
been the most muddled-up case I've ever had
to do with, for I can get next to no information
from Mr. Armitage himself. That his wife is a
guilty accessory, to say the least of it, there's
not a shadow of doubt ; but what has she clone
with herself? She's a clever one, she is.
Leith, Leith — well, it's my private opinion that
this is simply a blind on your part, Mr. Armytage,
to divert my attention to the wrong
quarter. I'll let Macdonald take this job on
hand, and keep myself ready in case anything
nearer the mark should turn up. Bother it all,
there seems no doubt about it that it was Murdoch
who sailed in the Empire for America ; but,
so far as can be learned, there's absolutely no
trace of the lady. If she has not sailed before
he did, and tries to do so now from any British
port, she'll be nabbed. I only wish she'd try.
As for Murdoch, he'll be caught all right at
t'other side. But whether they'll agree to do

R 2

anything more than detain him a bit isn't likely,
unless we can definitely accuse him of something
criminal. If only they've gone together,
the rest will be smooth sailing ; but unfortunately
this can hardly prove to be the case. However,
we ought to be having a States' telegram
here in a fortnight or so.'

In accordance with Armitage's instructions, a
man, carefully disguised, was set to watch
Leith's movements. On the day following Maxwell's
interview with the latter, he received at
his hotel a cheque which he asked the landlord
to cash or have cashed for him ; and the same
afternoon he was traced to the railway station,
was observed taking a ticket for Aberdeen, and
was duly followed to that city by the disguised
constable.

It was with a feeling of relief that Armitage
received Leith's acceptance of his conditions.
Although at times he was wholly sceptical as to
what the latter had told him, or indeed as to his
having any knowledge whatever of his wife's
reasons for flight and her present whereabouts,
at other times he would feel convinced that this

man must know something, that he had probably
ascertained directly or indirectly some
important data, and that, if he would only be
unremittingly watched, he might, unknown to
himself, be the means of the discovery of Mona.

Once or twice a great fear had come over
him that his wife was where no human search
would find her — that her body lay deep in some
lonely pool, or swayed about amongst the seaweed
— but he became comforted by the lack of
all evidence to support this supposition.

With that vain self-conviction with which
each of us practises such successful delusion,
he said to himself that he felt she was still
alive, and that they would yet meet, and once
more be happy together.

Dr. Steele still remained an invalid, not having
quite recovered from the over-exertion he
had put himself to on the eventful day of Mrs.
Armitage's disappearance ; but deeply as Armitage
sympathised with him he could hardly
understand his old friend's extreme reticence on
the subject of Mona. Formerly he had been all
affectionate interest, sympathy, and encourage-merit

; now he said nothing as to his belief that
all would yet come right.

For his part, Dr. Steele only said to himself
again and again — ' When am I to tell him ?
When am I to show him that fatal letter?'

CHAPTER IX.

A STROKE IN THE DARK.

A week passed, and no news came to render
Armitage's trial more bearable, if even by direful
certainty. From the letter received from
the officer who had followed Leith to Aberdeen,
he learned that though that person's movements
had often been abrupt and mysterious they had
led to nothing as yet. No news from Perth, or
Glasgow, or Edinburgh — surely a human being
could hardly disappear so thoroughly, especially
one such as Mona, burdened and easily recognisable
as she was by having her child with
her. But had she the child ? Perhaps not ; and
Hew turned faint for a moment as he thong] it of
all the possibilities opened up by such a surmise.

But through all doubt — and this at times was
almost overwhelming — through the suspicion of
others, the tendency of direct and indirect
evidence, he clung to his faith in his wife. His
love, always high and noble, now demonstrated
its depth of tenderness. Sorrow had
softened its nature and more finely attuned it
than any unbroken happiness could have
accomplished; and, whereas he would sometime
ago have met the realisation of Mona's
perfidy with agonised scorn, he now felt that
love such as his could not so easily be slain,
that he would love and forgive even to the
end.

Never for a moment did he believe in the
possibility of her guilt in connection with the
forgery ; he felt that he would hardly credit it
from her own lips. Great love cannot stoop
to base suspicion. Mona could do no base act,
he felt assured ; for in the depth of his faithful
and abiding love he would have invented ample
excuses for her for simply having left him — he
would not have been kind or sympathetic
enough, she had loved some one else before she

Lad met him, and the old magic had asserted
its sway ; she had been mesmerised by an
unprincipled scoundrel ; her mind had been
affected, and she knew not what she was doing.
These and fifty other excuses, if necessary, he
would at once have brought forward.

If she only knew, he thought, what agony he
was suffering, and how much greater than ever
his love had become, she would surely come
back to him, or at least send some message.
His great hope now was that Mona would be
found in some out-of-the-way place, perhaps ina
fever, but carefully tended by kindly poor
people; and that it would in due time be
proved that she had left Firnie Knowe unknowing
what she did.

It was with a feeling of almost sickening
despair that Armitage watched day after day
going past and bringing no news. He had
latterly pinned his chief hope on something
being found out from close observation of Leith,
but by the time the fortnight was almost up
he at last realised that he must expect nothing
in that quarter. Or rather, he saw that Leith,

consciously or unconsciously, would not let him
learn anything if it were possible to prevent it,
and that there was no use hoping for anything
in this direction until the man was paid the money
and left free to act as he pleased.

One morning Hew found among his letters
one with the Perth postmark, which he opened
with trembling eagerness. It was not, however,
from the Intelligence Office, but, to his
great surprise, from Leith, and was to the effect
that it would be more convenient for him to
meet Armitage there than at Dundee. At the
last moment Armitage had wisely determined
to take Mr. Gavin more into his confidence, and
to ask him to undertake the difficult task of
keeping Leith in sight after the money was
paid and the bargain concluded. This plan he
gave up when he learned that the meeting was
to be in Perth, deciding to employ one of the
Perth detective staff instead.

The appointed hour was noon, and he had
just time to catch the late morning train, due in
Perth a few minutes before that hour. When
within a mile or two of the town, the train was

obstructed for about twenty minutes, so that, to
his extreme regret, Hew found he would be
half-an-hour late by the time he got to the
Royal Hotel. He had meant to have gone first
to the Intelligence Department, but now concluded
to go straight to the hotel.

Yes,' he was told, ' Mr. Leith would see
him in his private room.'

< When did Mr. Leith arrive?'

■ Last night, sir, as a guest, though he was
here in the forenoon to engage rooms and
write a letter.'

He's been here before, hasn't he V

1 No, sir, he's quite a stranger.'

As Armitage followed the waiter he wondered
if there was anything of importance underneath
this sudden change of the place of meeting,
and while still turning the matter over in
his mind, he was shown into a room.

Leith rose and bowed with exaggerated
courtesy, begging his visitor to be seated.
Taking no notice either of the salutation or the
request, Hew remained standing, and, before
breaking the ice, fixed a long, steady gaze on

Leith's face, under which that gentleman visibly-winced.


I understood, Mr. Leith, that we were to
have met on this day at the " Buccleuch Arms "
in Dundee V

'Yes, only I found Perth would be more
convenient for me,' replied Leith, in a tone of
insulting rudeness.

Hew flushed, but with an effort controlled
himself, knowing how much might depend on
not further increasing his companion's resentment.


I will make no remark on your manner of
expressing your reason. But I beg that we may
-at once come to the point. Have you the letter
ready which I demanded V

< That is it there.'

Hew took it up and read it slowly from beginning
to end. It was certainly succinctly enough
worded, and, so far as Leith was concerned in the
scandal, was entirely satisfactory. Stepping to
the side of the room he rang the bell.

What is that for ?' asked Leith, abruptly, and
with a quick motion of his hand to his side-pocket,

as if about to draw forth some weapon.

'You need not alarm yourself. I simply
desire what you must yourself know to be
indispensable — witnesses.'

On the contrary, I do not at all recognise the
necessity, and emphatically protest against anything
of the kind.'

It has got to be done, whether you approve
or not. You see, Mr. Charles Leith, it is just
within the bounds of possibility that you should
one day declare this signature of yours to be a
forgery, or even to state that it was wrung from
you by undue pressure. It might be difficult forme
to prove my position, you understand V

Before any reply could be made, the bell was
answered.

Waiter, is the landlord or the account-clerk
at hand?'

< The landlord's in the next room, sir, giving
some directions about a gentleman's luggage.'

4 Then ask him to kindly step here for a moment,
and return with him yourself.'

In a minute the paper was duly witnessed by
the two men, Armitage having explained that the

gentleman before them had signed this paper in
refutation of a baseless scandal, and that, to make
the denial more convincing, they had decided to
have it witnessed.

As soon as the witnesses had gone, Armitage
folded up the letter and put it in his pocketbook.


e I see you resent this formality, Mr. Leith.'
Hand me over the sum agreed on,' replied
the latter, sullenly. Mentally he was cursing his
folly in not having first got the money, when he
might have played the high hand or not as he
liked.

One or two questions first, if it's all the same
to you. Be so good as to enlighten me as to
what you know concerning Mrs. Armitage's departure
from Firnie Knowe.'

You remember meeting me at the cross-roads
on the night of your wife's flight V

Hew winced at this way of putting it, but replied
at once in the affirmative, adding that he
did not think Leith had recognised him at the
time.

Yes, I did, and I also heard you calling out.

But it wasn't likely I was going to stop, was
it!'

< Why not V

1 Well, you see, you might have put some
awkward questions — and I — ah — let me see — I
had an engagement. Moreover, you were going
in the right direction — ha, ha !'

1 What do you mean V

You were going in the right direction — to
miss Mona !'

By heaven ! if you speak once more thus
familiarly of my wife, you will have cause to
bitterly regret it.'

Oh, we were old friends, you know, before she
ever saw you. However, it's all one to me.'

Do you mean to tell me that you knew my
wife had gone in some other direction than in
that of Perth, and that you allowed me to waste
such infinitely precious time in vain pursuit V

< Yes.'

Charles Leith, you are a base and cruel scoundrel,
as well as a liar and coward.'

Ah, you've said that or something like it once
or twice before, if I'm not mistaken. Try something

new : it ^ might relieve your feelings, and
won't hurt me. But when you've done perhaps
you will hand me over that money and then take
yourself off. You will get no more information
out of me further than this — that I happened to
come across your wife after she left home, that
I learned from her her determination to put an
end to herself rather than return to you, and that
she is now safely out of this country.'

Where is she at this moment V

Couldn't say. I know she left Scotland, that's
all'

Charles Leith, you don't leave this room till
you give me such information as is in your
power. According to agreement, I have brought
you the money in notes, but not one of them do
you see until you have told me all

This is a breach of faith. I never bound myself
to give you details. However, all I can
give you will be of little service to you. So I'll
give you two links in the chain, and if you can
manage to find the end of it, you're welcome.'

Well V asked Hew, with uncontrollable
eagerness.

< Firstly — I know that on the same night you
went to Perth she went to Leith (the town of
Leith, ha, ha! curious coincidence that, isn't
it ?) and that there she embarked in a steamer
which sailed in the early morning for Antwerp.
From Antwerp she went to Hamburg.
Secondly, within three days from this I will
send you word as to where she is at the time I
write. Further than this I know nothing myself.'

But how are you to hear what her movements
are V

That's my business ; but it's not from her, if
that's what you're after. It's nothing now tome
whether you find her again or not. You're
welcome, so far as I'm concerned. I promise
that you will hear from me in three days. If my
informant has lost sight of her, I will give you
the latest clue in my possession. I decline
absolutely to say another word. For that
matter, I couldn't, unless I were to invent something,
because I know nothing more.'

6 Do you swear that you are ignorant of what
she is going to do after leaving Hamburg V

She will have left Hamburg before this, but

VOL. I. S

I am as ignorant as yourself of her intentions or
her destination. I swear to send you some information
within three days, if I get it myself ;
if not, I will even let you have the address of
my informant, and you can catch up^the clue from
him if you can.'

< But why '

4 Look here, Hew Armitage, I have neither
time nor patience to argue any more on this subject.
I tell you frankly that I have no longer
such need of the money you have brought me,
my difficulties having been tided over. So, if
you do not settle with me at once, I will demand
back that letter (which as a man of honour
you could not refuse), and will retain complete
freedom of action as to what I will say or do.
One certain result would ensue — namely, the
absolute disappearance of even the faintest trace
of your wife. I am not going to answer another
question, and you may decide as you choose.
Which is it to be V

For reply Armitage silently laid on the table
a thick bundle of notes, which Leith took up
and counted carefully.

'I have one word to say. Charles Leith,
if you are playing me false, you will yet have
bitter cause to rue it. But — but,' and here
Armitage struggled with his passion, ' if I find
that my wife has come to shame or sorrow
through you, I will follow you to the ends of
the earth, and kill you without respite whensoever
and wheresoever I may find you. Man,' he
went on, wildly, ' it is since you first came on the
scene that all this unhappiness began. According
to the evil you have done, may God do unto
you!'

'Oh, I'll take my chance sneered Leith,
mockingly, ' and so now I will wish you good-day,
and — good-bye, Mr. Hew Armitage.'

An hour later, by Hew's directions, messages
were flashed along the wires to Hamburg,
Antwerp, and other North-sea ports, for a
sudden hope had come to him that he might
forestall any treachery by Leith, and that the
German or Belgian detectives might be able
to find Mona, either in some town, or at the
moment of embarkation. He never realised
that Leith may have lied to him from first to last.

s2

Before returning to Firnie Knowe, he arranged
that a detective should follow the latter and
report daily.

It was already growing dark, though not long
after three o'clock, when Leith settled his bill
at the ' Royal Hotel ' and drove to the railway
station. A short time before, the detective had
seen him go out, and had followed him to the
Bank of Scotland, and had noticed him changea
large bundle of Scotch for English notes and
gold. If he imagined that Leith was unconscious
of his presence he was mistaken, for the latter,
who had fully expected that such surveillance
would be instituted, had kept a careful look-out,
and soon discovered that he was followed. It did
not, however, discompose him, and he certainly
did not exhibit the least symptom of uneasiness.

When he reached the station, it was just as
the express for the south arrived, so there was
little time to spare. He did not look behind him
as he stood at the ticket office, but he could not
help smiling as he knew who the person just
behind him was, and what his reason was for
pressing so close to him.

'First single to Edinburgh,' he said to the
booking-clerk, in a loud and distinct voice, adding,
' How long will this give me in Edinburgh
before the night mail leaves there for London?'

About three hours, sir.'

Ah, that will suit me nicely,' and, still
smiling furtively, Leith ensconced himself in
one of the Edinburgh carriages.

Putting his head out of the window and hailing
a paper boy, he noticed that his follower
was getting into a third-class compartment in
the same carriage as himself. At the first
station at which the train stopped he rose and
looked out, and by a coincidence his follower
had also risen, and was also looking out. Larbert
Junction had to be passed, and then there
were no more stoppages till Edinburgh was
reached. When the train drew up at the
former, the detective got out, and strolled past
the compartment in which Leith was seated,
his mind being put at ease by observing that
the latter was apparently sound asleep.

That's all right,' he muttered, as he got
back to his own compartment just as the train

was again in motion ; and * that's all right,'
said Leith, as he found himself alone, his
previous fellow-traveller having got out at
Larbert.

The moment the train stopped at the Hay-market
Station for the collection of tickets, the
detective kept a close watch on the door of the
compartment in front of him. A gentleman got
in, the ticket-collector closed the door, and
three minutes later the terminus was reached.
The train had not come to a stop ere the
detective was on the platform, keeping close to
the compartment into which he had seen Leith
deposit himself. Some one got out — not the
person whom he wanted; but why did the
latter not come forth ? Was he still sleeping ?
Advancing to the window, a glance was
sufficient to show that the compartment was
empty !

Gone, by all that's living,' cried the amazed
officer. ' Why, he must have got out of the
train immediately after it left Larbert. Wait a
minute ! By Jove, it may be !' and, turning, he
went swiftly in the direction of the cabs. He

was just in time to see the person who had left
Leith's compartment get into a hansom.

Yes, the same height and build. A man
that can disguise himself like this would make
his fortune as a detective ;' and, in full assurance
that he had got his man safely after all, he
sprang into another hansom, and told the
driver on no account to lose sight of number
so-and-so.

As the vehicles rumbled up through the old
town, and away through Nicolson Street, the
detective again and again chuckled over
Leith's adroitness and at his over quick wickedness;
but he again was to be somewhat
astonished when Morningside on the right and
Lexington on the left were passed, and they
went swiftly down-hill to Lowborn.

At the last-named place the hansom came to
a stop, and the passenger got out, saying he
would take a short cut to his house across the
meadows. It was impossible for the latter not
to notice the hansom behind him, and it evidently
struck him that some friend was seeking
him out.

Coming up to the detective, who had been
thus awkwardly found in pursuit, he saw at
once that the latter was no acquaintance, but
politely asked if he could direct him, perceiving
as he did that he was a stranger.

No, thank you, sir ; much obliged, I'm sure ;
but I'm going to see a friend down the road a
bit. Alighted here to save the extra sixpence,
you know.'

'I see. Good evening.'

Turning to the driver of the first hansom, the
detective asked if he knew the person he had
been driving.

'To be sure I do. Everyone here knows
him. He's Mr. Hillyer, the famous advocate,
and that's his property over there, called the
Grange. It wasn't Mr. Hillyer ye was a-wantin',
I suppose?'

No, no ! thanks. I only wanted to know
who he was,' and, jumping into his own cab
again, he told the driver to lose no time in
getting back to Edinburgh. ' What a curs' d
fool I've been he muttered, with impartial

severity. ' He's given me the slip after all, confound
bim. Wonder what the deuce he has done.
Did he get out at Larbert, and go to Glasgow ;
or did he go south to catch up the early evening
London express ; or did he get out shortly
before we reached the Haymarket Station ?
I fancy the last must be the truth. I expect he
has something he must settle up in Edinburgh,
and that as soon as he has done this he'll disguise
himself and go on to London, as he intended.
He must have suspected something.
I'll telegraph to Glasgow and London as welland
see if I can learn anything along the line
beyond Haymarket.'

While the detective was anathematising his
ill-fortune, and laying out many plans for regaining
the scent, Leith was standing on the pier at
Greenock waiting to be taken over to a sailing-vessel
that was in readiness to leave the Tail of
the Bank as soon as the last passenger was onboard.


The moment the train had steamed out of
Larbert Junction Leith had crossed to the other

side of the carriage, unlocked the door by a 
carried evidently on purpose, closed it as he
stood on the platform, but at first hesitated to
risk a spring on to the sloping bank. Seeing,
however, that every moment the engine was
increasing its speed, he half-fell, half-threw
himself backward, and rolled sprawling along
the grassy incline none the worse of his daring
feat save a torn nail on one of his fingers and a
bruise on the thigh. Losing no time, he at once
ran along the embankment, skirted a high
double-fence of young ashes and larches, and
saw before him the high-road without a sign of
life. Hiding himself behind a bend of the
hedge whence he could see all around him, he
made a careful scrutiny to see that he had not
been noticed and followed, when, having
satisfied himself, he crossed the road, and with
some difficulty, owing to the bruise he had
received, swung himself by a trailing bough
into a great beech. Before he had mounted it
half-way he saw what he wanted. Far away
to the right rose the white smoke of the engine,
showing that his risky leap had not been

noticed, or, if it had, that the train was not
to be stopped in consequence, and that no telegram
could be sent till Edinburgh was reached.
As soon as he gained the ground again he looked
at his watch, and saw that he was still in time
to get the train at Larbert Junction which
would take him west. Taking from his pocket
a small parcel, he soon, by means of a false beard
and wig, completely altered his appearance, and
immediately thereafter went rapidly along the
road in the direction of the station, arriving
just in time to get into a through carriage for
Greenock.

It had come on to rain heavily, and the wind
rose and shook the rushing train at times as if
it would hurl it from the rails. Above the noise
of the wheels and the jolt of the carnages could
be heard its mournful sough, rising into a blast
like a prolonged howl of fury ; and the engine-drivers
had difficulty in keeping their faces
from laceration by the sleet that every now
and again whirled against them. Lying back
against the cushions Leith grew ill at ease as the
wind increased in violence, and he turned

away his face from the window as if more
effectually to shut out some unpleasant
thoughts.

It will be a wild night at sea,' he muttered.
I don't half like it, and yet anything would be
better than not getting away to-night. Let me
see — the wind's almost due north, and so will be
entirely in our favour. That's a good thing :
no hanging about the firth windbound for a
week, but slick away and well down the Irish
Sea before dawn. She sails at eight, so I expect
I'll be about the last passenger aboard.'

In due time Leith reached Greenock, but
found on gaining the pier that he was too
late for the small tug that had taken the other
passengers aboard. A man offered to take him
out in another tug for a sovereign, an offer which
he gladly enough accepted, as the sea was
already too high for any small boat to venture
on it with safety, and as, moreover, there was
not a moment to lose, the tide being already at
the turn.

He had barely gained the deck of the Australasian
when the anchor was up, and the great

ship swung slowly from her moorings, and was
dragged easily after the steam-tug that was to
conduct her past the Cloth Lighthouse and then
leave her to begin her long journey to the other
side of the world.

Before the pilot left the vessel he offered,
according to custom, to take ashore any letters
or telegrams. Leith had a note already written ;
addressed to 'Hugh Armitage, Esq., Firnie
Knowe, by Dundee.' When he handed this to
the pilot (and he was the sole passenger who took
advantage of the latter' s offer), he gave him a
sovereign, on condition that he would not fail to
have the letter posted on the evening of the
following day. As he leaned on the little sofa
in his cabin, he pressed his face against the
round porthole which did duty as a window, and
caught a glimpse of the rising sea in the intervals
between the surging up of each successive
wave. His face was very pale, and became
almost ghastly in the wan light thrown
suddenly across it by each mass of white foam
that rushed past. But before he turned to
enter the saloon his old evil smile flickered

about his mouth, for he was saying to himself,
■ I'm in luck, indeed ; over a thousand pounds
in hand, and knowledge that I am fully revenged.
Certain revenge ; how I'll brood over that everyday
of this voyage ! Curse you again and
again! Yes, Hew Armitage, you will wish,
two days hence, that you had left your horsewhip
behind you that night. I'm a scoundrel, a
reptile, am I? Perhaps — but I've had my
revenge, Hew Armitage.'

Out into the darkness and the storm-swept
sea went the labouring ship, no soul thereon
knowing whether unto life or unto death.

CHAPTER X.

THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OP DEATH.

Armitage thought the two days after his
interview with Leith would never pass ; for
he clung with a great hope to the latter's
promise.

On the evening of the second day he received
three letters, each one of which was like another
stab in a sorely wounded body. One was
from Gavin to say that no trace of Mrs.
Armitage could be found in Hamburg, Antwerp,
or elsewhere, and reiterating the writer's belief
that nothing would now be heard until after the
arrival of the ship in which Murdoch had sailed.
With an imprecation Hew thrust this into the
fire.

The second note was from the Perth office
enclosing the report of the detective who had
followed Leith from that town. To his intense
chagrin, Armitage found that the latter had
eluded all pursuit with apparently the utmost
ease, and that he had left absolutely no traces
behind him. This letter discouraged and
worried him greatly, and more and more the
further he thought the matter over.

The third letter was from Dr. Steele, and
was very short. It ran simply :

My Dear Friend,

I have something to tell
you which I can no longer postpone doing. It
is not good news, my poor boy, but you must
be brave.'

Strangely enough this last note did not
disturb Hew so much as the other. He well
knew that Dr. Steele no longer believed in his
wife's integrity, but it never entered into his
mind that he had any other cause therefor than
Gavin's prejudiced reasoning. A coolness had

arisen between them, for Armitage could not
help feeling bitterly disappointed that his old
friend should doubt Mona on even the most
startling evidence. Wearied out as he was, he
slept badly that night, and was up an hour
before the darkness grew into a cold chilly
grey.

He had meant to have ridden over to Fermentation
in order to get Leith's expected note a
little sooner than he would by waiting at home,
but, now that the time was at hand, he felt a
strange reluctance to anticipate what news the
letter might bring him.

As a rule, the postman rode up to the lodge
a good half-hour before the breakfast time at
Firnie Knowe, but on this morning he was
late.

Hew kept pacing up and down the room,
unable to touch anything on the table, and at
last began to despair, as he concluded that
Leith must have played him false. At this
moment he heard the sound of wheels in the
avenue, and a little later Dr. Steele drove up
in his small phaeton.

VOL. I. T

Hew went to the door and welcomed him
politely if not cordially. His visitor noticed
this and sighed.

I came over early to see you, Hew, in case
yon should think of going into Dundee to-day.
x\s I told you in my note, I have something to
tell you.'

1 1 am ready to hear what you have to say,'
replied Armitage, gravely; 'but can you first
tell me if you saw the postman as you came
along V

6 Yes, I did, and, as he told me there was only
one letter for you this morning, I brought it
with me. Here it is.'

'Thank you. Excuse me for a little,' said
Hew, with tremulous eagerness. ' Pray have
some breakfast while I go into the library.
This note is of the utmost importance.'

As soon as he gained the library, he tore open
the envelope, not without noticing, however, to
his surprise, that the postmark was that of
Greenock.

A mist swam before his eyes, and for a few
moments he could not see, but by an effort he

steadied himself, and read the brief letter
through.

Hew Armitage,

'By the time you receive this, Mona
and I will be far at sea en route for Australia.
Do not be anxious about our means of subsistence,
for, in addition to the thousand pounds I have
received from you, she has brought with her
in gold another large sum. The same friend of
mine who gave her shelter when she left your
house, and kept her safe and quiet till after
the first flurry was over, has given us a passage
on board one of his vessels. Though there
are no other passengers, I do not think she
will ever regret having left you or having accompanied


Your humble servant,

Charles Leith.

< pes. — I need hardly say that what I told you
in Perth was all bunkum. Mona and I had a
good laugh over it afterwards. By-the-by, the
child's dead.'

t2

Though the colour ebbed slowly from Armytage's
face as he read this dastardly note, he
certainly did not take it all in during the first
reading. He turned it over and looked at it with
a strange, puzzled look in his eyes, a look which
gradually became intensified in a sustained
stare of agony. If ever despair, if ever overwhelming
misery burned in any mortal's eyes, it
was in those of Hew Armitage, as with a low
cry he realised at last the awful thing that had
come to him.

He stood still, staring at the paper ; his frenzied
eyes moveless in the drawn, bloodless face.
His body swayed, and he sank helplessly down
beside a low chair. He lay thus in a kind of
stupor of agony, and apparently was entirely unconscious
of Dr. Steele's anxious inquiry outside
the door, and subsequent entry. When the latter
entered, he got a great shock. Was it possible
that any blow, any shock, could so terribly prostrate
and alter a man of such calibre as Hew
Armitage ; for he lay there as if he had aged pathetically,
helpless, hopeless, a man already aged.

Looking at the helpless, almost abject-looking

being before him, Dr. Steele recognised
that the one chance of saving Armitage
from death — or worse, madness — was to rouse
him into activity at whatever cost. He read
Leith's note, which, of course, only more thoroughly
convinced him of Mona's guilt ; if he
could have held out any hope, he would have
done so, and persuaded his friend to be up
and away in swift pursuit of the traducer.
But under the circumstances all he could do
was to make Hew realise to the full that Mona
was unworthy — and that he owed it to himself
as a man not to yield to such extremity of
grief.

But he spoke apparently to deaf ears,
Hew either regarding him with a dull
vacant stare, or paying no attention whatever.


At last Dr. Steele half-pulled, half-lifted him
on to the chair, ran into the morning-room and
brought out some brandy, forcing thereafter
some of the liquid down Armitage's throat. It
seemed to touch the springs of life, for some
faint colour came into his drawn white face, and

his eyes lost something of their fixed, glassy
stare.

e Armitage !'

4 Well V came back the answer, in a strange,,
muffled voice.

4 Hew, my friend, my poor boy, I know what
you are suffering, for I know your dreadful secret.
Do not restrain your grief; no man need be
ashamed of tears in a great sorrow.'

Well V in the same dull, harsh, monotonous
tone.

1 You must not give way to unmanly despair ;
you must realise that you have been deceived —
grossly, shamefully deceived.'

Curse him ! curse him ! curse him !'

It is not he alone. My boy, my boy, I am
sorry for you, but you must read this note ;' and
Dr. Steele placed before him the note he had
found on the dressing-table on the day Mona
had left.

8 1 did not give it to you before, but kept it in
the vain hope that something would bring her
back, or that you would find her.'

To Dr. Steele's almost startled amazement,

Hew sprang to his feet and was once more a man,
as of old. Changed he was, indeed, marked as
with the drawn lines of age and the veritable
lines of agony, but no longer stricken, helpless,
impotent.

Taking the note from Dr. Steele, he read it
aloud in a clear and firm voice.

6 It is a lie ; it is a forgery !'

1 Do you mean to say, Hew, that that is not
your wife's handwriting?'

I mean to say that, if she wrote that note, it
was unknowing what she did. It is only
possible for me to believe two things — either
that she wrote it in mental frenzy, or that she
was forced to do so against her will by magnetic
force.'

And who would exercise such a force V

< Charles Leith.'

1 But yon have no manner of proof that hein
the first place, possesses the powers of a
mesmerist at all, and, in the second, none that
Mona ever proved susceptible to such influences.'


< If Mona wrote these words it is impossible

to account for the fact by any other supposition.
Listen to me, Steele. If ever you hint to me
of my wife's imaginary guilt in the matter of
the forgery, it will be the last time we speak
to each other. But I tell you again that I do
not believe this document to be genuine.
The writing is almost identical with that of my
wife, but yet there is an indefinite something
about it which assures me that it is not
hers

Armitage, at the risk of losing your friendship,
I must tell you that I can see no difference,
and that I believe any expert would bear
me out. Have you any writing of hers that
we could lay the two together V

'You will find endorsements and remarks
on the backs of some of the household bills
in the escritoire in the morning-room. Follow
me.'

When the escritoire was opened, Hew pointed
to the portion which Mona had used for her
accounts. Dr. Steele pulled out some tied-up
bundles, and as he did so a note fluttered to the
ground. Stooping, he glanced through it

hastily, and suddenly asked Armitage if he had
not looked at this compartment since his wife's
departure.

No ; why do you ask V

Read this.' And Hew, snatching the piece
of paper, read the following message :

This is to tell you that for my sake, for our
child's sake, for your own honour and reputation,
you must let the matter of the forgery
rest. Hew, I am guilty and I alone. I tell you
this, because I know that we shall never meet
again. If you can forgive me, do so — but,
better still, forget me.'

Is that Mona's handwriting or not V

Armitage hesitated, and then admitted that
he could not say wherein it was not, but added
that it was a strange thing why the ink was of
a markedly different hue from that in which the
other endorsements and notes appeared.

1 Do you not see how this bears me out,
Steele? Granting that Mona did write these
words, the fact of their being in a different ink
and on a different kind of paper from what
she invariably used proves that she must have

written it away from Firnie Knowe, and, therefore,
as I am convinced, under evil mesmeric
influence.'

What you say is certainly strange, and there
may be something in it. What are you going
to dor

Do ? There is but one thing to do. I will
go at Once to Glasgow (for that scoundrel's
remark about sailing from London is a manifest
blind), and will find out what ship he sailed in,
and who were the other passengers. If indeed
my poor, unfortunate darling should have been
seduced and led away by that fiend, I will
follow them. If I cannot save her happiness,
or my own, I can at any rate even yet save her
honour, and rescue our child, for I do not
believe that the little one is dead. If she had
died, the shock would have restored Mona to
her right mind, if she is indeed distracted, or it
would have broken the mesmeric thrall exercised
by Leith, if it is to his treacherous wiles
she owed her misery. And if — my God ! if I
find that I am too late — that Mona has sunk
under her burden — then I will follow him from

country to country, from place to place, till at
last God gives him over into my hands. There
will be no escape for him then V

'Armitage, you must not act rashly about
going to Australia. Keenest a moment. What
if Leith is deceiving you again as he deceived
you before 1 It is possible he is as ignorant as
any of us concerning Mona's whereabouts, and
that he is only endeavouring to have his revenge
by causing you as much suffering as it is
in his power to do.'

But evidently upon Hew's mind had become
branded the belief that Mona had succumbed
to Leith's mesmeric powers, and had been led
away against her will — had been forced to write
these notes, and was even now, perhaps, sinking
under the shame and agony which she
yet found impossible to overcome.

1 My resolve is fixed, Steele ; but, of course, I
will not sail until satisfied that I am not pursuing
a mere idea.'

Action saved Hew Armitage. Had it not
been for his sudden resolve his brain would have
given way, or he would have died, perhaps by

his own hand. The very strength of his nature
induced such an extremity of collapse. A less
trustful, less loyal, less passionate nature might
have stood the first shock better, but at the
deadly blow that had been struck it seemed
to Hew as if everything was gone — not only
happiness, honour, welfare, but also hope inman,
belief in good, trust in Divine power.
The world became a horrible chaos of darkness,
treachery, evil, mockery, agony, through
all washing incessantly a perpetual rain of
tears.

As the train that day whirled him towards
Glasgow, an acquaintance got into the same
compartment at some small station, but the
latter did not recognise Armitage, whom he
knew well but had not seen for some months.

On reaching the smoky city, Hew roused himself
from his profound reverie, wherein a deadly
grief had brooded like a chilling vapour in a sunless
valley. He went to the leading shipping-agents,
inquired what vessel or vessels had
sailed for Australia within the last week, and

learned that only one ship had gone, a well-known
trader called the Australasian, owned,
in company with two or three other large
vessels, by Messrs. Peacock & Co. To this firm
he at once went, and was informed that no one
bearing the name of Charles Leith had registered
with them, but that a Mr. Charles had,
on the day of sailing, engaged a berth by telegram,
and had reached the ship just in time and
no more. By further inquiry he also ascertained
that the telegram was sent from Mr. Charles, at
the * Royal Hotel,' Perth, and that a telegraphic
reply in the affirmative was sent to him there.
He had engaged one berth only. It was in vain
that Armitage strove to discover if Mona had
sailed or not. A Mrs. Browne, who described
herself as a married woman going out to join
her husband, was a second-class passenger, but
she had no child ; there was also a young widow
named Robinson, who had a baby with her,
and went out in the steerage ; and there were
two married ladies, belonging to the saloon,
who were travelling by themselves, and who

had given no unasked-for details. No, neither
had children ; yes, both called at the office at
the same time ; yes, one was young and very
pretty, and seemed in great distress ; no, he
(the clerk) had not heard them say anything
particular, beyond overhearing the elder lady
whisper to the other to be of good heart,
because it was all for the best.

But what did the younger lady give as her
address V

i She declined to give any, sir ; and, seeing
that she was in trouble, I did not press her. She
paid the passage-money in full, and got all particulars,
and I saw no more of her

Armitage returned to the hotel where he had
engaged a room, and there he found a telegram
from his business agent in London, informing
him that no ship had sailed therefrom within
the last six days, and that the first to go was the
Fair Hope, due to sail two days hence. In due
time he also received a telegraphic reply from
the proprietor of the ' Royal Hotel ' at Perth,
stating that Leith was the only person who had
left on the day in question, and that that morning

he (Leith) had received a telegram addressed
to Mr. Charles, which he had beforehand
explained to the proprietor was his professional
name, he being an actor.

Finally, Hew went to Greenock and got what
information he could from the pilot who had
steered the Australasian out of the firth ; information
which corroborated the certainty as
to Leith and * Charles ' being the same person,
but which afforded not the faintest clue to
Mona. However, he felt convinced that she
was on board the ship in question, and was one
of those persons whom the clerk had mentioned.
But if he had any lingering doubts they were
removed when he paid a second visit to Messrs
Peacock's office, and learned two important
things : firstly, that the clerk had made a mistake
in saying both the two lady cabin-passengers
were married women, for the younger and
prettier was registered as Miss Marshall ; and,
secondly, that some unforeseen accident must
have prevented the other lady, Mrs. Colquhoun,
from sailing, for the ship had had to leave without
her, and they had neither received nor sent

any communication owing to the absence of an
address.

'I see it all, 5 thought Hew, as he walked
away — 'that devil in human shape has persuaded
some one he knew that Mona was either
his wife or his sister, or perhaps even an orphan
girl engaged to him, and that she was to
be sent out to friends in Australia, where he
would shortly join her. Some such scheme as
this, I am certain, has been carried out. But
I will follow and save her

Within the next two days, Armitage had
made all arrangements for departure. The
head clerk in his firm was made a junior
partner, the servants at Firnie Knowe were
paid off, with the exception of the gardener and
his wife, the latter of whom had been, twenty
years ago, one of the servants in the Cameron
household, and in later days a kind of housekeeper,
and in full charge of the house Mrs.
Muir was now left. With Dr. Steele he had
a sad but friendly farewell, the former comforting
his deep regret at what he thought
Hew's folly by the reflection that the latter

might, in action like this, more effectually shake
off his great sorrow. Mr. Gavin was disgusted >
maintaining that any moment news of essential
importance might come from America, to
which remonstrance Armitage paid no heed, ashe
knew how absolutely the detective was on the
wrong scent.

Besides the large amount in gold and notes
which he took with him, in addition to drafts
on Melbourne agents, he took nothing of
importance except a gold case containing a
miniature portrait of his wife which she had
given him on the first anniversary of their
marriage.

No ship sailed from Glasgow for some time,
so he decided to go by theism Hope, from London,
a swift vessel, which in all probability
would reach Melbourne before the Australasian,
despite the latter's good start. The name also
appealed to him, and he looked on it as an
augury. The stronger the emotion, the more
liable is human nature to seize on the veriest
trifles as indices to either good or evil.

He reached London late the night before the

VOL. I. U

ship sailed, and the next morning stood on the
poop watching Gravesend fading away as the
vessel was towed steadily onward till the
South Foreland should be passed.

The white cliffs and the picturesque castle of
Dover were the last objects he saw, for a dense
mist crept seaward from the shore and hid
everything from view. The wintry dusk had
set in, and it was bitterly cold ; but Armitage
seemed indifferent to the gloom of the former or
to the chill of the north-easter. He stood leaning
against the taffrail, not with a shoreward but
with a seaward gaze.

He was already imagining that the Fair Hope
was eager to reach the far away Austral coast,
and fervently he prayed that the augury of the
name might not prove a mockery.

At last he felt chilled to the bone, took one
long look at the black seas sweeping round the
ship, and went to his cabin.

Even as the Fair Hope was rushing down
Channel before a strong favouring wind, beginning
well her long race of thousands of miles over
many seas, a telegram was delivered at Firnie

Knowe addressed to Hew Armitage. According
to agreement, it was at once despatched to
the Cedars.

Dr. Steele opened it hurriedly, and grew
white with keen sorrow as he read its contents.

Too late,' he cried, ' too late ! He will be
far at sea by this time. My God ! what evil
chance has played such havoc with these two
lives I*

u 2

CHAPTER XL

WHITHER I

On the eventful day when Mona left home, it
will be remembered that she, the child, and a
house-girl had gone forth in the phaeton, and
that at a certain point Mrs. Armitage had told
the servant to get out and return home. Having
given her command, and seen the girl wistfully
standing on the road, she shook the reins and
drove swiftly onward for a considerable distance.
That she had some definite idea no one
who could have then seen her would have hesitated
to decide, though such an one would have
been puzzled to see her a few minutes later
draw the reins tight, stop the pony, and suddenly

take the baby in her arms and kiss it
passionately, speaking to it the while with broken
sobs and with burning tears trickling down her
sad face.

1 My darling, my darling ! he shall not kill
you !' she sobbed ; * no, he shall never find us ;
and, if he does, he will have to kill us both, and
not you, my pearl, my little angel !'

This, then, was the secret of Mona's flight — a
horrible hallucination whereby it seemed to her
that her husband had determined to destroy
their child. By what strange mental freak
this idea had become fixed in her mind it is
impossible to say, but somehow or other the
suspicion took seed in her excited mind — perhaps
during her brain-fever, and in some
extraordinary way grew more and more definite,
till to her it became a terrible reality — a reality
at last so imminent and awful that it had become
intolerable.

No doubt this dreadful hallucination was
the result of the shock she had received
from the carriage accident, the concussion of
the brain from which she suffered, and the

fever which had afterwards prostrated her ; but
below it all there must have been some strain
of mental disease — a strain possibly so slight
that it would never have manifested itself in
even any little eccentricity had it not been for
these untoward incidents. Before the fall from
the carriage had occurred, Dr. Steele's attention
had been arrested by some little things to
which his keen professional judgment at
once attached considerable significance — so
much so that, as may be remembered, he
went the length of inquiring as to the mental
health of Mona's parents and immediate
relations.

But if Dr. Steele could have seen the strange,
puzzled look that occasionally came into her
eyes as she sat in her phaeton during this
momentous drive he would have taken heart,
believing that strong as the hallucination was
at present it would ere long pass away, if not
leaving the mind clear, at least permitting the
latter to shape itself into a new and possibly
less tragic groove.

Suddenly Mona loosened the reins again, and

called out an encouraging ciy to the pony,
driving rapidly forward till she came to the
cross-roads, along one of the least used of which
she drove until the North Grasston Road was
reached. Here she alighted, and, taking with
her only her child and a small hand-bag into
which she had before leaving hastily thrust
some notes and gold, she crossed the road and
climbed up the bank that hemmed in this side
of the Forest of Ratho. Just before penetrating
the gloomy darkness made byvthe firs, larches,
and gaunt oaks and beeches., she stood a moment
or two intently listening : either she heard,
or imagined she heard, distant sounds which, to
her excited mind, became the clamour of
pursuit.

Shudderingly she entered the wood and wandered
swiftly but aimlessly through it. Once
a fox rustled through the covert behind her,
and in a moment she fell on her knees and
cried out wildly for some one to save her child,
and, when no response came, sank forward in a
prayer of interest thankfulness that she and
her little one had been screened from the

avenging hand which she believed was so
closely following them. After long, aimless
wandering, and when just about to sink down
in a stupor of mingled exhaustion and despair,
she caught a glimpse of an open road a short
distance in front of her. She had just reached
the utmost limit of Ratho Wood when she saw
the hooded cart of a carrier coming along in her
direction, and at once made up her mind to take
advantage of this opportunity. She had had a
well-defined plan before leaving Firnie Knowe,
but all her arrangements had by this time
escaped her memory.

When the carrier drew near, he was startled
at the sudden apparition of a closely veiled
woman issuing from the cheerless gloom of
the fir-woods, and still more so when this
lady (for that she was a lady he at once
knew from her accent and low-pitched voice)
begged that she might have a passage in his
cart.

How far do you go V she asked.

1 Weel, mem, I gang the length o' Perth ;
but I cinna gang there the night, ye ken. I'm

due at Drumlouthie at somewhat atween five
and six, and I don't start again till about half-past
six next morning, getting into Perth sometime
afore noon, according to the extent of my
custom.'

Is there a railway station at Drum-loathe
V

Ay, there is that. But, if ye're in a hurry,
mem, I should advise ye to tak' the train frae
Mitchell Junction. I'll be passing within half-a-mile
o't, and I'm thinking' I'll be in good time
for ye to get the south train that's due at Perth
shortly after four.'

After Mona had got into the carrier's cart,
the conversation did not flourish. The carrier
made several attempts, but was met
either with silence or with quiet monosyllabic
replies.

She sat in a land of dream, sometimes keeping
the baby to her breast and singing a low tune
to hush its fretfulness ; again, she would suddenly
snatch it away from her bosom and u;azc
at it long and earnestly, as if striving to solve
some riddle. Sitting, as she did, behind the

carrier, he saw nothing of this, and, indeed,
gradually came to think of other things than his
silent fellow-traveller. At last Mona was
aroused by the stoppage of the clumsy vehicle,
and, turning to her, the carrier said that her
road branched off here, and that she could not
miss the way, as it led straight to Mitchell
Junction.

She had alighted, and was feeling for her
purse, when the kind-hearted old fellow leaned
forward and said in a whisper, as if there
might be tell-tale ears in the very hedgerow,


Look here, mem, you seem in trouble, if
you'll excuse my noticing it. If so be as ye're
hard put to it for money, why, we'll say nae-thing
about this ride, but I'll just wish ye guide
and God-speed.'

4 Thank you, my friend, and God reward you
for your kindly thought. k Though I am in
sore trouble, I am in no lack of money. But
will you do me a service V

What I can dae, I'll dae, mem.'

Well, here is a pound-note, to which you

are welcome, if you will say nothing about
having seen me. I tell you frankly that I have
left my home, but it is not for evil I have done
so.'

'I believe that is the truth, mem.'

1 A search will soon be made for me, and I tell
you that if you betray me the blood of myself
and my child will be on your head. My husband
is determined that my baby must not live,
and if he kills her he will be the cause of my
death also.'

The man seemed impressed by her earnestness,
but in any case he took the money and
gave his promise, which he loyally enough kept
till long afterwards.

Mona reached the station in time to catch
the train from Aberdeen to Glasgow. In the
compartment she fell into a profound sleep and
did not awaken till her journey was nearly at
an end.

It was dark when she left the terminus at
Glasgow, but the outer darkness was as nothing
compared with that which clouded her mind.
For now all was confusion, wild images succeeding

tumultuous hopes aud numbing fears, a
dreadful desire to fly away into some remote
place where no human being could ever espy
her alternating with an equally dread eagerness
to participate in the noise and tumult of the
great city. She ■ knew not whence she had
come nor whither she was going. A strange,
indefinite fear urged her to move on, to mix
with the crowds, to seek safety in these
thronging thousands that made Argyle Street
seem like the main approach to some great hive,
whereto and wherefrom countless swarms continually
passed.

She had left the station quickly, and was at
once submerged in the dense and fast-flowing
human stream, and even as a broken flower is
swept along by some current, so was she
carried eastward in the direction of the Trongate
as if she had no volition of her own.
What noise there was, what glare of lights,
what brutal faces and brutal words and brutal
laughter, what evil and hollow mockery of
gaiety, what drunkenness, what loathsome and
omnipresent vice. In the midst of this human

maelstrom, Mona felt as if she were in some
dreadful nightmare.

Past the crowded Trongate her feet had aimlessly
borne her, with her one wild desire to
escape, to hide, to be at rest.

Now close beside her ran the river, though
as yet she knew it not : dark and foul and
mysterious, brilliant here and there with gas
illuminations and red ship-lights, it was like a
materialised shadow of the human stream that
seethed and bubbled and surged upward and
downward till the eye saw no further, eastward
or westward.

At the corner of Argyle Street and Jamaica
Street she eddied to and fro some moments,
even as the human currents caught her and
bore her this way or that. Was it fate or
accident that determined her tendency ! For,
all unconsciously, she turned in the direction of
the Broomielaw Bridge, and iu a short time was
among the thronging crowd that continually
pass to and fro thereon. Once there, once she
had seen the dark water flowing beneath, the
attraction of the great river exercised a spell

over her more potent than any weak volition of
her own, or even than the indeterminate force
of the crowds about her. Along one side of it,
then back by the other, so went Mona. She
seemed to feel no fatigue, though at times she
lingered by some jutting lamp, nor did she
seem to have any fixed idea. Perhaps in
her obscured mind the river suggested some
protective influence. Possibly she had some
vague idea that in it was to be found rest,
freedom from pursuit, assured safety ; but
more possibly it was to her simply what the
flame is to the moth, a focus of irresistible
attraction.

Two or three times a policeman told her that
she must not linger, but he was a kindly man,
and neither molested her in any way nor spoke
to her again when he found that she uncomplainingly
walked on. Later on, the man who
replaced him said to her harshly that she must
not beg on the bridge, at which she only stared
at him, with a dumb, wondering expression.
Some one heard the admonition, and, pitying
the hopeless misery of the woman, gave her a

small silver coin, which she took without
thanks, and with the same dull, dazed look.
The night wore on, and Mona still kept on or
near the bridge. Gradually, to her ears, the
river's murmur became coherent, and seemed
to be a constant whispering of rest — rest —
rest.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 042032364

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN

BOOKSTACKS

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY,

T E R r^ s .

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Months. 12 1Ionfli-s.

For ONE Volnine at a time £0 12 1 l

(Novels tn snort than 0>ie Volume are not available for this class of Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes „ 17 6 1 11 6

(Novels in snore than Two Volumes are not available for this class of Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ 1 3 2 3

For FOUR „ „ 1 8 ,. 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE „ „ 3 5 5

^ ^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sportofchance02shar

VOL. n.

BY

WILLIAM SHARP

Hither and thither blown, the sport of Chance.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

1888.
All Ri,s'hts Reserved.

CONTENTS

■ OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

BOOK I

(Continued.)

XII. A Forlorn Quest

XIII. The End of the Quest

XIV. A Vision of the Night

BOOK 11.
I. A Terrible Encounter
II. Waiting for Death

III. Face to Face

IV. Gained and Lost .
V. Esau's Heritage .

VI. Nearer and Nearer .
VI [. At Last

BOOK III.
I. Mary M'Ian's Charge .
II. Lord Cameron

III. Love and Sorrow .

IV. A Secret Revealed











19i








fCONTINUKD.)

VOL. II. B

CHAPTER Alla

FORLORN QUEST.

Slowly the busy and turbulent streets on
either side the Broomielaw were obscured,
despite their glare of light ; then the ships and
steamers moored close to the bridge became no
longer discernible by means of the red lanterns
at their bows and on their masts ; but fora
time there was a constant fusion in the
fog of an orange-red glow, surging closer
apparently, and then fading flickering into a
lurid, sombre hue, but with intervals, pulse-like
in frequency and regularity. This was from

B 2

the great ironworks that surround the eastern
approaches of Glasgow with a girdle of ceaseless
flame. To many these have seemed as the
very fires of Hades, but to Mona they only
caused a dull disturbance, such as we experience
in some mere memory of an oppressive nightmare,
the terror of which we are unable to
formulate, or even in vague impression recall.
A blast came from them every now and again,
and to the lonely, distracted woman, wandering
aimlessly and hopelessly in the darkness, it
sounded like the wearied sigh of the labouring
city itself.

Denser and denser became the fog, till it was
impossible for any pedestrian to see his feet, or
even his hands held up before him. If a figure
rested a moment under a gas-lamp, it looked
unreal, unsubstantial, a thing of shadow, a figment
of the imagination.

But at last she became conscious that someone
was close to her. At intervals there was
another sound than the sighing of the furnaces,
or the sudden boom of a fog-horn ; it was that
of a person coughing horribly, each cough

being shaken ont as if the life went with it,
but invariably followed by a quivering in-clrawn
breath. There was no other sound, save when
this coughing was interrupted by a low moan.

Mona's child gave a faint cry, and even as
she hushed it to sleep again she felt something
press against her. She shuddered, not knowing
what it was; sight being impossible, she
could only learn by the ear that it was a human
being, for the dreadful cough burst through
the fog close beside her, and by the touch that
it was a woman, for she felt thin ragged clothes
hanging in damp folds round a shivering body.

Are you Mary Stevens V gurgled out a
hoarse voice in a weak, gin-laden breath.

'No.'

'Who are you, then?'

God knows. I do not.'

There was silence for a little ; then the woman
went on —

Ye're a teddy, I suppose V

I am a miserable, unhappy soul.'

Have ye been on the streets long V

•' Yes, a long time,' said poor Mona, wearily,

absolutely ignorant of what her unseen companion
meant.

'It's what we all come to,' said the latter,
with a groan. ' It's curses and blows till we're
old enough to be seduced, and then it's
di-unevenness and vice till we've lost our looks,
and then it's curses and blows till we come to
this.'

A paroxysm of agonised coughing intervened
before the woman went on again.

This fog's a-choking me. Did ye say ye
had a baby there. Ay ? I've had three, but
they're all dead, thank God ! Is it a boy or a
girl?'
A girl.'

Then kill it ! Ay, ye needna start ; it's a
mither's advice I'm giving ye. Kill it, drown
her, if ye're a spark o' love for the wee lassie.
Better the river than a woman's life such as we
lead. She'll hare to come to it, ye ken. Be merciful,
woman, and drown her. I'll no witness it if
ye fear my telling on ye. I'll tell ye what I told
no one afore. I came here wi' my last nigh a
year agone — I came here to throw it into the

liver, seeing it was a lassie, but when I lent owe
the brig it was clead-canld, caned wi' hunger an'
chill, but calder still wi' death. Sae I gazed
back wi' it, an' cried the last tears I'll ever
greet. I was in the hospital after that. Don't
move away, don't leave me, woman ! I'm dying'
of could and this cough.'

Half consciously, half unconsciously, Monaput
her arm round the woman, and both endued the
other with a little heat. How long they remained
thus neither ever knew. They had buta
hard support — the parapet of the bridge — but,
as the woman muttered grimly, the fog was
nigh thick enough to lean against. A longtime
passed before any further word was spoken.
At last the baby began a low, weary wail, and
suddenly the woman woke from her stupor and
whispered, hoarsely,

'I've heard my wee Maggie crying'. She
must ha' begged to get a peep at her mither
and then began greeting' sir. Bless her, the
wee lamb of God. I'm coming', Maggie, I'm
coming', if they'll only let me in. Let me ha' one
kiss frae my ain bairn, God! Maggie, dear,

my doo, Maggie dearie !' and without any more
coughing or shivering she fell asleep.

How cold the woman was, and how heavy,
thought Mona, vaguely, in the midst of her own
misery, but her gentle loving-kindness prevented
her disturbing her companion, and indeed
she dimly realised the relief it was not to hear the
dreadful coughing. At last she too became unconscious,
though she slumbered not so deeply
as her companion.

She was awakened by a neighbouring clock
striking the hour of six. It was as dark as ever,
but the fog seemed less dense, and to be dispersing
or at this part lifting. She felt chilled to
the bone, but thanked God when she heard the
slight breathing of the child, kept warm next
her bosom. How heavy this woman was!
What was that yellow spot close by above her?
Vaguely she recognised it as a gas-jet gleaming-through
the lifting fog, and she watched it with
dull, half-curious gaze as it gi-ew more and more
luminous. When its light at last streamed
straight on her, she turned and looked at her
companion. She had thought the woman was

old and feeble. The tiling before her was not
the corpse of an old, but of a comparatively-young,
woman — but more than old, aged in grief
and shame. The face was bluish white, and the
eyes were open and glassy, and, as Mona
wrenched herself away in sudden deadly fear
and horror, the corpse swayed a moment
and then fell forward on its face.

With a muffled cry she fled from the spot,
and, just as she reached the western end of the
bridge, fell to the ground in a helpless swoon.

The keeper of one of those coffee stalls so
familiar now to all wayfarers by night and during
the early hours of the morning, heard her fall,
and at once ran to her assistance. No one was
at hand, so he half-dragged, half-lifted her towards
his stall, at the same time carrying the
child in one arm ; and when he had managed to
help her to the little seat inside, he began chafing
her hands and moving her arms to and fro.
For all he knew to the contrary — in fact, in all
likelihood — she was some unfortunate outcast,
wretchedly poor, but too proud as yet to sink
to the lowest depths ; but the man had a true

heart, and the fact that he beheld a woman
before hmi, in helpless misery, was enough to
excite his sympathies, and he intended to succour
her to the best of his ability, without the
faintest anticipation that he would get any thing
save verbal thanks in return.

Suddenly Mona's eyes opened wide, and she
half rose, endeavouring to regain he r baby.

Sit ye still, my lass,' said the man, ' the
wean's a' right. See ye here, drink this cocoa ;
it'll dae ye a world o' guide.'

She did as she was told, and took, moreover,
the bread sopped in warm milk which he gave
her afterwards.

Ye had a nasty fall, I'm thinking' : surely ye
serena foot a' night, sic a night as it was until
the bargain V

Yes, I was on the bridge all night. When I
came to a little ago, I thought I had only been
having a dreadful dream. How it ended I don't
remember, though I know it was something
horrible.'

Pair body ! it's a cruel world, it is. Hare
ye nae free' folk to gang to? Hare ye

neither mither nor father— or nae aulcl greens?*

No, no one but God, but still 1 trust in Him,
though He is leading me through the very
valley of the shadow of death.'

'If ye hare God to help ye, ye'll dae weel
eneuch, whate'er betide. Ah, that's done ye
guide, I'm thinking' ; ye're a different being noo
from what ye were when I brocht ye here.'

*May God bless you for your kindly succour
and for your kind words.'

All right, my lass : we maun dae as we'd be
done by, ye ken. But whaup are ye gain noo ?
If it's work ye're after, I ken they're wanting'
female operatives at the Lothian Works owe
yonder, and as ye're spruce and weel-dressed,
and doubtless quick wi' your fingers an' hans,
ye might get a berth there.'

But during the last fear minutes Mona's thinking
faculties had received a stimulus from the
warm and nourishing food of which she had
partaken, and she had conceived an idea which
she resolved to carry out. She had had a
nurse who had been with her from the moment
she was born till she had left home a married

woman, at which time" Mary M'lan had herself
left the Cameron household, and married a
cousin of her own name, who was a fisherman
at Loch Ranza, in the Island of Arran. Though
Mary had always been a strange woman,
having been more feared than loved, and
having been accredited with the possession of
certain miraculous powers — notably the faculty
of second sight — she had both loved and been
beloved by Mona, and their parting had been a
source of deep regret on one part, and almost
passionate grief on the other; indeed, their
separation would not have taken place at all
but that Mary had pledged her word to her
Cousin Sheumais that she would wed him in a
month from the day that her daring, Mona
Cameron, became a wife.

Mona remembered that Sheumais M'lan was
at last settled at the lonely little fishing village
already mentioned, and she determined to proceed
to the latter, well knowing that with Mary
she would feel secure indeed.

So, when she was asked by the stall-man
where she was going to, she replied that she

wanted to go by the Campbeltown boat, which
she knew called off Fillmore Pont to land
passengers and herring-boxes and to take on
whatever passengers the ferry-boat might bring
out.

'Div ye ken some ane toon the river, my
lass V asked her guide, as he led her to the
corner of the street ; * an' can ye pay yer way
toon? I've gey little silver o' my ain, but if
ye're name I'll just mak' a push an' pay the twa
or three shilling' myself'; and if ye're folk ye'll
perhaps be able to send it back to me again.
My name's Robert Stratford, an' the number
o' my coffee-stall is 7. But if it's no in yer
power to repay, cinna fash yersel' about it ; and
mebbe ye'll be able to dae as muckle for some
other pair soul yersel' some day.'

May God bless you, my friend, for all your
kindness. But you are mistaken about my
misery being due to destitution. I have ample
money with me, but a great sorrow drove me
away yesterday, and I kncAv not what I was
doing. You have saved my life, it may be, and
more gratefully still do I realise that you may

have saved that of my child. I cannot recompense
you as I should like, but I beg of you to
accept this from me, with my deepest gratitude
;' and, before the man could recover from
his astonishment, Mona walked rapidly along
by the wharves in the direction of the distant
shed to which her attention had been previously
drawn.

Her late befriended stood for some moments
in a kind of dream compact of ecstacy and
hopeless bewilderment — for he had received
from the poor homeless outcast (as he had considered
her) a five-pound note !

In the meantime Mona had reached the
Campbeltown steamer, and at once went into
the cabin, where the bitter chill of the wintry
morning did not afflict her. The warmth
that came from the stove in the centre of the
saloon, the dull thud of the engines, and the
vibration they caused, the swish of the river
past the cabin windows, the silence so far
as any conversation was concerned, all tended
to turn Mona's excessive prostration into
drowsy restfulness, and at last into profound
slumber.

When Mona and her child awakened from
sleep and went on deck, the steamer was heading
direct for the Island of Aidan.

Even in her fatigue, grief, and frenzied
terror of what lay behind her, Mona did not
escape the beauty of the scene which met her
gaze as she emerged on 'deck. Above was a
cloudless sky of a brilliant, steely blue, against
which the white sea-gulls stood out in flying
relief; the sea was of a dazzling wilderness to
leeward, and covered to windward with innumerable
little waves, which seemed to rise
from a sea of molten gold to show that they
were really azure at heart, and which tossed
their snowy foam-locks as they danced along in
measureless glee. Seaward, a great ship was
trending towards the south, her broad sails
spread out like the wings of some huge, many-pinioned
albatross. But in front lay Arran, its
serrated peaks rising shapely clear against the
steel-blue background — Arran, the most beautiful
of islands, never forgotten by those who have
even once visited it, loved evermore by those
who have once really known it and its multitudinous

charms. The savage barrenness of
Goat Fell was partly shrouded by a coverture of
dazzlingly Avhite snow, but the bright sun was
melting the latter along the lower spurs, and
there was every here and there a moving gleam
as some tiny snow-fed streamlet or waterfall
found its way by mountain gorge or steep
declivity to the rocky shores that kept back the
sea.

Mona was standing looking at the bare, craggy
slopes trending towards the sea, when she
noticed that the bow of the steamer, which had
lately pointed inland, faced southward down
the Sound of Kilbrannan, and at the same
moment she heard a sailor telling a passenger
that they were rounding Newton Point, and
that Loch Ranza would then be visible.

What a lovely scene it was that now met her
eyes. A small sea-loch curved inward, girt on
the left by the Cock of Arran and high snow-clad
hills, and on the right by lower heights,
densely wooded in parts; along the shore at
its upper end were clustered the houses of the
village, sheltered by a background of lofty

mountains, extending to the serrated crags of
the Castel Abhaill, or the Peaks of the Castles ;
and midway into the loch at the far end ran a
spur of land, at ^ the extremity of which stood
an ancient ruined stronghold, with something
deeply pathetic about its crumbling decay, surrounded
as it was by the strength and majesty
of the mountains beyond. A clumsy ferry-boat
had come out to meet the steamer, which only
lay off the entrance to Loch Ranza, and, as
Mona was the only person who disembarked,,
the vessel was not long ere it rounded Fillmore
Point and left the loch and village to
their absolute repose again.

When the boat grounded against the little
promontory which did duty as a pier, Mona
asked the ferryman to du-sect her to the cottage
where Mary M'lan lived.

Is it Mary M*Ian she'll pe wanting V he
replied, with a strong Gaelic intonation, and
that exasperating repetition of the question
asked, which is so characteristic of most of the
Highlanders. * Weel, if she'll tak' the right road
she canna gae farr wrong.'

VOL. II. C

Yes, but which is the right road V

What road Aud it pe put ta only road
there is.'

But I see a road there to the left, aud one
here to the right, and yonder are two on the
hillside across the loch.'

'Hooch ay, put they're all one road. Go
straight afore her, an' she'll come to the inn, an'
then cross the burnie py the pride (if it's no
toon, for I heart Duncan MacTavish say it was
rotten afoot a week before), and then turn to the
right again, as if she were trying to tak' a shortcut
to the Chalmidael Road. It's all straight, ye
canna miss it. How farr isn't ? Weel, she wud
say it wur afoot half a mile an' a mattock.'

Mona went straight on, but not much wiser
for the ferryman's directions. She passed the
old castle, and saw that there was a little loch
inside the spur of land, and that herein rested
the fishing fleet of the neighbourhood. Some of
the men were on the bank, busy mending their
nets, and looked curiously at her as she went
along, but, with natural courtesy, did so only
when she had passed by.

When she reached the Kettle inn, she saw a
young girl, who, when she learned who was
wanted, volunteered to guide Mona to the cottage
of Mrs. M'lan.

'Mebbe she'll no see you, ma'am, for she was
queer the other night, an' died us a' a fright.'

How do you mean " queer' ?"

Weel, ye ken, she has the gift o' the sight,
an' we saw her rinnin' along the lochside at
moonrise wailing like a mad woman, an' wi' her
black hair streaming hint her. An' when she's
that way she'll sometimes no speak to a soul
for days afterwards. She's had the sight five
or sax times sin' she and her man cam' to Loch
Kanza, but never sae fearfully as the last time,
even on the night o' the full moon afore herman
deed.'

'Is Mr. M'lan, then, dead

Hooch ay ; wasna I tellin' ye that she had
the sight afore Sheumais M'lan deed?'

Ay,' the girl went on, ' it was a strange
thing. We were haudin' Hallowed, an' a
laughing' an' shouting', when in walkit Mrs.
M'lan, wi' her eyes almost foot o' her head, an'

cas

white as a ghaisfc. My father cared foot,
What's the matter wi' ye, woman V an' she
answered back in the Gaelic that she saw herman,
Sheumais, swaying about in the seaweed
at the bottom of Kilbrennan Sound, an' that
she was gain along the shore to meet his spirit
as it cam' foot o' the sea. An' when she left us
my father bade us all whisht, an' would let
us gang on further wi' or Hallowed sport, for
he tell us that Mary M'lan had the sight on
her, an' that as sure as death Sheumais had been
drowned. An' sure enough, when the fishermen
cam' in next morning Sheumais M'lan was missing,
an' has never been heard of till this day
though Dugald Duncanson picked up his hat in
the net, which showed that he must hare fallen
overboard in the night, an', no been' a swimmer,
had gave toon like a stane.'

Ere long they reached a little cottage on the
hillside facing the narrow gorge that serves as
entrance to Glen Easan Broach.

Mona stood near the doorway, while the girl
rapped at the door and called on Mrs. M'lan.
When the latter answered the summons she did

not see Mona, and only asked the girl sharply
what she wanted.

A tall, gaunt woman she was, unmistakably
of that pure Western Highland type which is
slowly but surely passing away. A pure Celt,
she had most of the faults and all the virtues
characteristic of her race — hot-tempered, superstitious,
revengeful, passionately loving, imaginative,
generous, hospitable, scornfully indifferent—
by turns she was each according to
the mood of the moment. Her face was almost
startlingly pale, this pallor being accentuated
by the locks of intensely black hair which had
a habit of falling from their bands and trailing
down upon her shoulders ; and her eyes at times
burned with a morose gleam, as if two fires
Avere smouldering that any breath of wind might
fan into deadly flame. She had been a fine-looking
woman once, but the last year or two
had altered her so much that at first Mona
Hardly recognised her.

Seeing that Mrs. M'lan was just about to
step back into her house in disdainful wrath at
the girl's reticence in explaining what she had

called for, Mona advanced, and said, in a low
voice,

Mary

Turning swiftly round, the woman literally
staggered, and her eyes distended as with some
terrible emotion.

Is it the sight again V she cried. ' Mona,
Mona, my bairn ! I followed your wraith round
the lochside three nights agone, and now I see
it again ! ! my bairn, my bairn, what evil's
coming' to ye ? — nay, it's come, it's come, or ye
would be standing' there the very image o'
yerser !'

It is I myself, Mary, and no wraith. But I
am in sore trouble, and have come to you as my
only friend.'

Is it you, indeed, Mona Armitage ? Girl, ye
may go now, and tell yom people that this is an
old friend of my own, an' that she's come to
bide wi' me a bit. And now, my bairn, come
in and tell me what's brought you to seek out
your old foster-mother.'

An hour later and Mrs. M'lan came forth

alone, and went rapidly along the narrow road
that leads round Newton Point. Nearly halfway
round the base of the Cock of Arran there
then lay a stretch of greenest sward, like an
emerald carpet fastened down in the midst of a
waste of scarred rock and loose boulders, and
in the midst of this was a curious arrangement
of white stones, with one much larger standing
on end behind them. When close to them, one
could see that the small stones formed a cross,
and that on the large slab that stood at the apex
were roughly carved some words. These ran —
Sheumais M'lan, of Ballachulish. Drowned in
Kilbrannan Sound, off Loch Ranza, October
31, .' Heavy clouds had before this obscured
the brightness of the day, and a wailing
mind had arisen from the east. Some sleet fell,
and then a snowstorm fairly set in, and,
though there was now a dull duskiness everywhere,
there would be light enough for another
hour at least, for one as well accustomed to the
locality as Mary M'lan. But even she stumbled
often over the rough jumble of boulders over
which she had to make her way, and the

growing force of the wind added to her difficulties.
For a woman of her class, and for the
time of the year, she was very thinly clad, yet
she seemed indifferent alike to the cold blast
and the sleety snow that soon transformed her
into the very likeness of a ghost ; nor did she
slacken her speed until she had reached the
lonely grave. By this she at once knelt, and
broke into wild sobs and tears, calling wildly on
the spirit of Sheumais to answer her appeal.
whether her too potent imagination conjured
up the figure that already stood clear in her
mental vision, or whether her excited fancy
mistook some flying seaboard as it loomed for a
moment through the snowy mh'k, or whether
she indeed beheld some spiritual shape, she
of a sudden ceased her cries and gesticulations,
and stood upright, earnestly gazing into
space.

After a few moments of earnest expectation,
she cried out, in a low, harsh voice,

Was the sight true three nights agone, or
was my brain dazed wi' sorrow an' weariness?'

Then once more she saw, or imagined she

saw, the same scene that had so disturbed heron
the night when the fisher-folk had seen her
wringing her hands in grief as she stood by the
shore of the loch. A frenzy came upon her,
and she cried out, with hot tears streaming
from her eyes,

Mona, Mona, it is you ; it is you, indeed,
whom I see lying stiff and stark in death. And
neither father nor mother, nor husband nor
child, nor kin of any kind, are with thee ; only
faces that I know not, strangers, strangers all.
Dead, my bairn, my ewe-lamb, my dearie, dead,
dead, dead !'

With arms wildly tossing above her head, she
sang, or rather wailed, some inexpressibly sad
Gaelic song of mourning, beginning, ^Mo reach !
mo clireach I dliflialhh solus na heath I Mo
reach I tha dorchadas tosdacli na h — uairje an so /'
her eyes gleaming the while like those of one
inspired.

At last the frenzy left her, and she sank exhausted
to the ground. A few seconds later
she rose again, but sadly and wearily, and
retraced her steps as best she could in the face

of the wind and driving snow. The fire had
gone out of her eyes and the prophetic vigour
that had animated her was wholly absent, so
that now she was simply an elderly, weary
woman, stricken down by old sorrow and new
grief, and feebly struggling with the angry
turbulence of Nature. As she found her
stumbling and erratic way towards the commencement
of the swampy path, she kept
moaning, in a low voice,

It is the will of God ; I've seen the vision
twice. The will of God.'

After they had found themselves alone, Mona
had at once expressed her sorrow to hear that
Sheumais M'lan was dead, and soon learned all
her old nurse's history since they had last seen
each other. With an emotion she with difficulty
repressed she told her tale to Mary, concluding
with a passionate appeal to her that
she would preserve the child for her until she
claimed it again, and on no account to let a
single soul know of this interview, of her future
movements, or of the existence of the child.

It never entered into Mary Milan's mind to
doubt the strange story she had Hastened to,
and she became as convinced as Mona herself
that Hew Armitage meant to kill the child.
When Mona pleaded to her with clasped hands
that she would swear to do as she (Mona) had
requested, Mary took from a little shelf a dagger
that had belonged to her father, and his people
before him for many generations, and, kissing
it, swore solemnly, ' I will.'

CHAPTER XIII.

THE END OF THE QUEST.

It was in vain that Mary M'lan pleaded with
Mona that she would stay a while at Loch
Ranza. The latter remained obdurate in the
face of many temptations, and when at last
Mary appealed to her to remain for the child's
sake, she replied that it was for this very reason
she was so urgent to go without delay, for in
all probability she would sooner or later be
traced thither, and then, of course, the little one
would be found also.

She was lying half-asleep, and watching at
intervals a blue-red flame spurt out of the peat
fire, when Mary suddenly sank down beside the
bed and passionately implored her not to leave

Loch Ranza for at least a little space of time,
adding solemnly, when she saw that her appeal
was in vain, that if Mona went away it would
be to a sad and lonely death.

Even if you are right, Mary dear, I must
still go. I leave for the child's sake. But supposing
that I never send you word — and that
would only be if I were no longer alive — will
you still keep your promise to bring up my
little daughter in the way I have requested V

I have sworn,' was Mary's reply, in a stern
but sorrowful tone.

All through the long night, while the snow
kept drifting against the windward side of the
cottage, and the tempest moaned or shrieked
among the hill-gorges, Mary crouched by the
fire, staring into its red, sullen heart with the
fixed look of a somnambulist. Mona slept fitfully
at first, but after midnight she sank into a
deep slumber, from which even the crying of
the child did not awaken her. At intervals the
watcher rose and replenished the fire with a
thick peat, each time sighing wearily as she did
so, for she felt as if on each occasion she were

adding another stone to the cairn of one whom
she loved.

In the early hours of the morning came a lull,
which proved to be the actual death of the
tempest. The wind fell from its prolonged
howl into that sobbing sigh which is its most
mournful intonation, till at last it breathed itself
away into silence, and there was not a sound
anywhere to be heard save the infrequent swash
of some over-heavy snow-wreath as it slipped
from boulder or sharp-edged reef dow n the hill-slope
behind.

The grey, cold, wintry dawn came at last, and
found Mary still sitting by the fire, her face
looking sterner, more sorrowful, more aged than
it had ever done before. Even if in her own
mind she had not realised the inexorableness of
fate, she would have had little temptation to
make any very vigorous effort to avert the
calamity she believed so imminent, for she
was a typical fatalist, and believed that it was
at once useless and wrong to struggle wildly in
opposition to those dark and mysterious decrees
against which all the strength of our little lives

is as in vain as that of tiny fish in some rock-pool
subject to the flux and flow of tidal seas.

When at last she perceived that another day
had come round, she rose and put on the
kettle, so as to be ready for her guest when
the latter awoke ; having done which she
went to the door, and closing it swiftly behind
her stood outside, gazing earnestly before
her.

White and ghostly was the scene she looked
upon. The hills on either side seemed clothed
in one thick and smooth garment, out of which
here and there rose a solitary amber-green pine,
or a clump of wind-bent larches. Behind rose
sharply against the steel-blue sky the peaks of
Caisteall Abhaill, dull grey, blotched with white,
the latter wherever a gradual slope or shallow
gorge permitted the snow to lie ; below lay the
scattered huts and houses of the village, from a
few chimneys of which curled up thin vaporous
columns of blue smoke, and beside them the
twenty or thirty herring-smacks half-reached
at the upper end of the loch, safely sheltered by
the tongue of land at whose extremity stood

the square ruined keep ; and beyond lay the
grey sea-loch, unrelieved even by a swooping
sea-gull, though scores of these birds and their
kindred stood sleeping or waiting along the
marshy belt at the eastern end of the fiord.
Beyond the entrance to the loch itself, and like
a veil stretched from Newton Point to Fillmore,
rested a grey mist, which shrouded from
view the rough waters of the Sound of Kilbran-
nan and the opposite shore of Centre.

Grey and white, and cold and still, it is the
livery of death, and the chill and silence of the
tomb,' muttered Mary, as she shivered in the
keen air. ' AVell, so be it ; we must all learn
silence some day.'

Her entrance, with the accompanying current
of cold atmosphere, awakened Mona and the
child simultaneously. Even Mary was astonished
to [see how greatly sleep had revived her
foster-child, and, though there was something
feverish in the latter's newly-gained vigour, it
had all the animating effect of youthful energy.
But if Mary had cherished any secret hope that
Mona would modify if not wholly change her

determination to leave Loch Ranza at once, she
was doomed to disappointment, for the latter
proved inflexible.

The two or three hom-s after breakfast Avere
spent in earnest conversation about the girl's
fiitm^e. She was to be christened Lora, and
was to be known by her mother's name, Cameron,
and after her tenth year (if she were still with
Mary) she was to be taken by the latter to
Edinburgh and there educated. Mona left in
Mary's charge all the jewels and nearly all the
money she had taken with her from Firnie
Knowe, and promised that more would be sent
when required.

Suddenly a thought occurred to Mrs. M'lan.

Mona, my dearie, if you must go, would it
not be as well to attract as little notice here as
possible I Few saw you arrive, and if you were
to go hence by a different way still less notice
would be attracted to you and to the fact that
you have not taken the child With you.'

You are right,' replied Mona, eagerly, ' but
how can this be done ? And then, you know, I
wish to have my declaration as to Lora signed

VOL. IT. D

by two witnesses — you for one, and the clergyman
for another.'

As for the minister, it's all one, of course,
whether your writing is witnessed by Mr.
MacAllister here, or Mr. MacDonald at Corrie.
As for getting away from here, I think I'll
be able to borrow Neil Neilson's spring-cart,
and then we could drive over the hills
to Corrie, on the east side of Arran, and
there you would get the Brick boat to
Ardrossan, and from there again by train either
north or south. Where are you going, my
darling, when once you get to the mainland :
won't you give your poor old nurse some clue
you know that nothing on earth would tempt
her to betray you V

I don't know exactly, Mary, or I would tell
you. But sooner or later — possibly at once, but
probably not for a year hence — I may return to
Firnie Knowe — for then I shall have no more
fear, knowing that my darling is in safe hands.
I will not return to live there, but only to claim
that which is my own.'

At this moment a shadow darkened the

window, and Mona gave a swift start and grew
deadly pale as she clasped the baby to her arms,
but Mary pacified her by saying that it was
only her next-door neighbour, Neil Neilson,
adding, ' by the same token, I had better speak
to him at once, for we have not over much time
to spare.'

In a few minutes she returned to say that not
only was the matter satisfactorily arranged, but
that horse and cart were already at the door,
and that they might go at once.

Wrapping round the child and herself a
great plaid given her by Mary, Mona got into
the cart beside the latter, who had taken the
reins in her hands, and who at once drove off.
It was a rough and jolly path until the main
road was reached and the long ascent begun,
but thereafter the road was good enough,
though almost invisible owing to the mantle of
snow which lay upon it. When, after an hour s
toilsome labour, they reached the bend of the
road that commands Glen Chalmidael, a halt
was made for a little, and Mona turned round
to get one last glimpse of the future home for

d2

some years of her child — a home, or rather a
home-locality, that looked strangely sad and
lonely from this desolate mountain-height, but
which was at least safe.

Then followed nearly four hours of laboured
travelling, which in ordinary circumstances
would have been accomplished in half the time
or less ; many a halt to enable the panting horse
to regain its vigour, many a temporary collapse
in some snow-hid hollow or heather-covered
rut. While traversing that wild hill-valley over
which broods the stony desolation of Sannox,
they disturbed an eagle feasting on a young
sheep, which it had either killed or which had
died in the snow-storm of the previous night ;
but, with this exception, no other living thing-met
their gaze.

At last they gained the eastern shore, and,
as the road here was almost completely free
from drift-snow, they were able to proceed more
rapidly. When Corrie was reached they learned
that the steamer would not be there for another
hour, so Mona had ample time in which to
write out a long statement, and to have it

witnessed by Mrs. M'lan and the clergyman of
the place. It was sealed carefully, and addressed
to Miss Lora Cameron, with the additional
words, ' On no account to be opened before L.
C. is of age, or in the event of her death or
marriage before that period.' Found this
packet was an outer envelope marked, * To Mrs.
Mary M'lan, to be kept by her for Miss Lora
Cameron till the latter is of age ; but to be
given to Miss Lora Cameron in the event of
Mrs. M'lan's death.'

Both women felt as if they were participating
in a dream, and it was not until the ferryman
had told them it was time they were
aboard his boat if they wanted to catch the
steamer that either realised the moment of parting
was at hand. Mona flung her arms round
the elder woman's neck, and burst into passionate
weeping, but Mary stood still and apparently
motionless, though in her eyes there burned
the light of perfect grief, the farewell of helplessness.


Then wildly the poor distraught mother
clasped her baby to her bosom, sobbing bitterly

over the little one, who looked at her
With wondering blue eyes. A swift, scarcely-audible,
blessing, one long hungering kiss on
the innocent baby lips, a last bitter sob, and
mother and child had parted — for ever on this
earth.

As long as the figures on board the vessel
could be descried, Mary M'lan sat on the
shore, and either waved her kerchief to the
sorrowful and tearful woman, who never for a
moment took her eyes off the fast retreating-land,
or else stood and held up the child at
arms' length.

It's farewell, poor babe,' she muttered ; ' it's
farewell, and no brief good-bye. I've had the
sight twice, and God gi-ant I may never have it
for you, my bairn.'

When at last the steamer became merged in
the grey mist that shrouded the shores of Bute,
Mary rose, and, laying the child on the^ground,
wildly waved her arms, and cried out something
in Gaelic in a tone of passionate grief.
Then, kneeling by the side of the child, she
swore by all she held most faithful to carry out

the poor mother's wishes to the minutest detail.
But, Hke most other people, Mary M'lan builded
her strong house upon shifting sands, all
unconscious that the so-considered stable
foundations would at any moment be swept
away, even as the incoming tide sweeps out
the pigmy sand-castles erected by playful
children.

She slept that night at a friend's cottage, saying
that she was keeping her grand-niece with
her for the winter at any rate, as the mother had
left no other provision ; and, as Mrs. M'lan was
known to be a woman of few words and taciturn
disposition, she was questioned no further, asher
host at once perceived that interrogation
would meet with no response.

Meanwhile the steamer had carried Mona far
from Arran, and, on arriving at Ardrossan, she
was met by the puzzling doubt as to where to
go next. Asked by one porter after another,
she at last repeated vaguely the town mentioned
by the man who was speaking to her, and
in a few moments found herself in the train for
Glasgow, though how or when she procured the

ticket iu her hand she had no idea, her mind
having again become clouded owing to the
strain she had gone through in parting with her
child, and, as she thought, her only friend.
When she heard the name of the city bawled
out by the porters at the terminus, she rose
hastily from the carriage and issued at once into
the lamp-lit streets, filled with their usual surging
crowds. Was it by instinct, or unconscious
action, or by mere chance that she found
her way to that Broomielaw whereon she had
lately passed so dreadful a night ? Something-troubled
her when she first caught a glimpse of
it as she reached the southern end of Jamaica
Street — something that suggested terror, despair,
madness, yet that was too vague to be
realised as a thing tangible, too immaterial to
be grappled with. As she hesitated in blended
dread and bewilderment, her eyes were arrested
by a placard posted amid other notices on
the corner building of the street — a placard in
which she read of the large reward offered for
information which would lead to her discovery.
She perused the declaration with something of

the same feeling that a condemned prisoner
listens to his sentence, but by a great effort she
shook off the dreadful terror and despair that
had overtaken her, and walked rapidly away
from the spot. A moment or two later she was
on the Broomielaw, but amidst the crowd and
noise she saw or heard nothing, her mind having
become shrouded densely by a dark mental
fog. Jostled to and fro, cursed by more than
one impatient individual, Mona was at last
bruised by a shove against the parapet, and had
to cling for support to a lamp-post which fortunately
was at hand, for otherwise she would
have fallen to the ground, and perhaps in front
of the heavy waggon that, as it was, rubbed up
against her with its wheels.

As at sea thick mist will suddenly rise for a
moment and reveal a rock or distant land, and
then settle down again as densely as before, so
rose for one brief space the mist that obscured
the mind of Mona. Memory came back to her,
and she realised that she was on the very spot
where she had left her companion of that
horrible night stark and stiff in death. Once

more she seemed to see the pinched blue face
and purpose lips, the glazed eyes, the skeleton-like
hands ; once more she seemed to hear the
cough of the poor wretch, as it broke with
bursting sound through the chill and nauseous
fog; once more she listened to the woman's
unnatural pleading that she should put an end
to the life of her babe, seeing that it was a woman
child, and so ordained to suffering and sorrow.
As all this became clear to her once more she
gave a ciy and sprang forward, and would have
fallen had not an elderly gentleman caught herat
imminent risk to a severe fall himself.

Are you not well, ma'am ? or did that lorry
strike you in passing?' he asked, in a tone of
kindly anxiety.

It is nothing, sir ; I mean I am not well.
How can I get away from here ? I am going
to be ill, I think.'

Do you live in the country f

Yes, yes, in the country.'

Well, you are close to Bridge Street Station ;
see, there it is. I will take your arm, and you
will be there in a minute.'

Leaning heavily on the old gentleman's arm,
Mona allowed herself to be led to the station,
but when once there she thanked him earnestly,
and declined any further assistance, assuming
him that she was now all right, and that she
had only been suffering from a temporary
faintness. When again alone she went mechanically
to the ticket-office, at which a small group
of people were paying their fares for the afternoon
train for the south, which was just about
to depart. When it came to her turn to speak,
the words stuck in her throat — if, indeed, she
even muttered coherently at all. A sharp
query from the clerk added to her confusion
of ideas, and the next moment an impatient
personage behind her called out on his own
account, ' Second single to Liverpool,' an announcement
which the clerk took as from Mona.
Having received and paid for her ticket, she
went on to the platform, and there stood helplessly
till she attracted the notice of a guard,
who asked her where she was going, and, on
her showing him her ticket, ushered her into a
through carriage for Liverpool.

Hours passed, and slowly but surely all
reasoning power died away from the mind of
Mona Armitage. Physical fatigue and unnatural
excitement had accentuated the mental
weakness first brought about by the shock of
the carriage accident, and confirmed by the
second relapse in her subsequent brain-fever.
When she issued from the railway carnage at
the Lime Street Station, she was no longer a woman
possessed of a monomania, but one wholly
bereft of reason. And with the passing away
of mental, went also physical power; so that
it was but a weak, fragile creature who, with
pathetically sad and unreasoning eyes, walked
aimlessly away from the bright, gas-lit station
and plunged into those narrow streets that
branch off in a southern direction towards
the river. She was in no way molested, either
owing to chance or to something in her appearance
that subdued any idea of insult or
attack.

There is, at low tide, at a certain part of the
-eastern side of the Mersey, a stretch of muddy

ground whereon is generally to be seen, by
the bargemen, water-police, or street-arabs
who know the dismal Spot, a collection of
broken tin and china vessels, dead cats and
dogs, the nameless and foul refuse which
such places attract, and, during tidal intervals,
retain. On the same night that Mona Armitage
arrived in the great city, a mixture of frost
and malodorous fog brooded above the river,
and along this dreary stretch of mud the former
had caused a glittering sheen, which had the
same kind of evil sparkle that may be seen on
a toad's back, or in the repellent gleam of
stagnant ditch-water. As a boat containing
four or five members of the water-police swung
rapidly down-stream, the steersman pointed to
an object lying on the glittering mud-stretch
—pointed in a way that was as much an
interrogation as if a verbal question had been
asked.

It's too large for a dog,' replied laconically
the man spoken to ; * and it's too easy-like to
be a log o' wood. It's a woman.'

While he had been speaking, the boat's head

had been tm-ned from the central current, and
ere long it glided against the muddy shallows
that sluggishly lapped the strip of noisome
shore. The mud was too soft to make it an
easy matter for a man to get along it without
getting himself into a foul mess and possibly a
dangerous dilemma, so the sergeant directed
the men to see if they could not slide the body
along by a boat-hook. After some difficulty,
the latter was fixed in the woman's clothes, and
she was dragged along through the water till
they where able to take hold of the arms and
pull her into the boat.

Poor wretch,' exclaimed one of them, ' she
can't have a bonny face since she prefers this to
the streets. Perhaps, however, she's some
decent body crazed with sorrow or driven to
this by cruelty.'

'More likely she was drunk,' muttered the
sergeant, grimly, adding, after a short silence,
she couldn't have meant to drown herself, for
even at high tide this mud-stretch is only a
shallow ; and, moreover, women can't abide
dirty water to drown themselves in. The worst

and the unhappiest o' them hate to muddy then'
petticoats and things even when a moment or
two later it won't matter a brass button what
state they're in. However, hand me that cloth
there, and I'll wipe the dirt off her face and see
if I know it, or if it'll tell ns anything.'

Heavens ! she's living !' he cried, almost
immediately, having felt a sudden weak pulsation
throb faintly in her bosom. ' Ah, it's as I
thought; it's the drink that's brought her within
such a near taste o' death.'

But when the mud had been washed away
from a pale, refined face, the man at once owned
that he had been mistaken, and added that
there was something in the face he seemed to
know. While on their way to the nearest
river-station, the men cast many a curious
glance at the fair face before them, and speculated
as to what had brought her so near a fatal
end, coming to the conclusion, at last, that she
must have come to the locality where she was
found under the impression that it was a ferry-station
, and that she had fainted in fright or
weariness when she found herself almost in the

river. The sergeant did not join in the low-voiced
conversation but kept continuously-scrutinising
the face of the woman before him,
and it was just as the boat neared its goal that
he suddenly exclaimed,

By Jove, lads, but it's my belief that this is
the lady called Armstrong — no, Armitage — who
is being so persistently inquired about, and
whose photograph was recently sent to our
head-office here from Dundee. I saw it the
other day, and I don't think I'm mistaken in
believing that the face in the photo and this one
here before us are one and the same. If so, ita
lucky find for us, for Mr. Armitage has offered
a large reward for the recovery of his wife, who,
it would appear, left home in a crazed state, poor
thing.'

Very shortly after arrival, the sergeant was ina
position to prove that his surmise was correct,
and that it was indeed Mona Armitage whom
he and his men had found on that stretch of
foul river-mud : but it was long before Mona
came out of her swoon and was able to mutter
a few incoherent words. In the meantime

a telegram had been sent to Hew Armitage
telling him that his wife had been found in
Liverpool, and that though she was evidently
seriously unwell the official doctor thought she
would be able to bear transportation, and asking
for information as to what was to be done. It
was this telegram that was forwarded to Dr.
Steele to read in the absence of the unhappy
and nigh despairing man to whom it was addressed,
and who at that moment was standing
on the poop of a vessel as it ploughed along
through the dark seas, and who looked hopelessly
out into starless and moonless blackness
that surrounded them. Hew Armitage had
begun a long voyage to Australia to find his
wife and her seducer, and yet before he turned
wearily into his berth that first sight at sea his
friend Dr. Steele knew how vain was this
pursuit, and, knowing this, had called out those
words of his already chronicled — ' Too late I too
late ! What evil chance has played such havoc
with these two lives !'

When next morning came it brought a
telegram from Dr. Steele, requesting that Mrs.

VOL. II. E

Armitage and child should be sent in good care,
and without delay, to Glasgow, where he
would meet them and conduct them home.
All through the journey Mona remained unconscious
; and even when at Glasgow Dr. Steele
found himself alone with her in a railway carriage
for Dundee, he was unable to rouse her in
the slightest degree. He was startled and
anxious to find that there was no baby along
with the mother, and all inquiries had proved
in vain.

He got out with his charge at Firnie, and
drove back to Firnie Knowe — a home-coming
for Mona such as neither Dr. Steele nor anyone
else had ever imagined. But she had not long
been laid on her own bed before the physician's
skilled eyes saw that she had not another hour
to live. Would she, or would she not, recover
consciousness, he wondered, if only for a few
moments. Mr. Gilray, the clergyman, was in
the room, also the old butler, and the three men
waited patiently, knowing that the flame of life
was almost spent.

Suddenly Mona sat straight up, and, looking

eagerly at Dr. Steele, cried out, hoarsely,
My child — my darling — is living. She is
at '

But the sentence was never finished, for
Mona Armitage fell back on the pillow a
corpse.

Mary M'lan had seen aright in her strange
vision; her dearly beloved foster-child, from
whom she had so lately parted, had already met
the sad and lonely death which had prophetically
been foretold.

e2

CHAPTER XIV.

A VISION OF THE NIGHT.

Mary M'Ian returned to her lonely life at
Loci Ranza, lonely in its self-imposed isolation,
but less so than of yore, owing to the young
life which was now her care, and on which she
lavished all the power of love and devotion in
her nature. It was not for many weeks after
the death of Mona Armitage that Mary heard of
the event, but when she did so, through an
old correspondent in the neighbourhood of
Firnie, it was with no shock of surprise, for had
she not in vision seen the foreshadowing of the
reality, even to the fact that round the deathbed
were neither kith nor kin? Her correspondents
Mrs. Fyfe, who had been housekeeper

to the Cameronss of Dmiluiart till the
death of the master of the house and the marriage
of the daughter — went on to narrate how
that the child had not yet been found, though
it was generally believed that the mother had
left it in some one's charge ; but, either inadvertently,
or owing to the toil of unaccustomed
penmanship, the writer went into few details,
and, curiously enough, made no reference to
J\Ir. Armitage's having left the country. She
added, finally, that to her great satisfaction she
had been appointed housekeeper in perpetuity
at Firnie Knovve — the accomplishment of an old
promise on the part of Mrs. Armitage that, as
soon as this vacancy occurred, the place was to
be hers ; and this vacancy had happened through
the resignation of the last housekeeper, who had
come into a little money, and had retired to
Edinburgh to spend the rest of her days in
dignified gentility. In a postscript she promised
to write again later on ; but this was a promise
never fulfilled, for Mrs. Fyfe, who was of
a somewhat touchy nature, never forgave Mrs.
M'lan for not answering her letter. This the

latter omitted doing, not from neglect, but intentionally,
as she wished for the child's sake to
keep np no communication, in the meantime,
with that home from which the unfortunate
mother had been driven by the presumed
cruelty of her husband.

The weeks and months went past, and
brought no change to the small household high
up on the hillside in the remotest corner of
Arran. The people of the village had accepted
the statements that their reticent neighbour had
adopted her grand-niece, and with true Highland
apathy they troubled themselves no more
about it.

Summer arrived, and with it the number of
visitors who annually came to spend happy
weeks and days at Loch Ranza ; but, beyond
coming across a few new faces, there was little
perceptible difference to Mary. September
followed, with its glory of colouring and bright
and beautiful weather ; October, with its alternate
calm and equinoctial tempestuousness ; then
November, with morning mists, peacefulness
upon the hills, the breath of St. Martin's summer

abiding in the valleys, and often by night,
towards the end of the month, wild winds rushing
furiously from the sea, or howling amidst
the mountain gorges, tearing [up the bracken
and whirling away the rowan leaves from the
hill-slopes, or rendering difficult and perilous the
nocturnal sailing of herring-smacks along the
fishing-grounds of the stormy Sound of Kilbran-
nan. Only once in all this period had Mary
been influenced by ' the sight,' and this occurred
some two months subsequent to Mona's
death.

She had been thinking much of her drowned
husband one long wintry day.

It was this, perhaps, that gradually brought
about in her that peculiar nervous condition
wherein she believed the faculty ot
prophetic vision became hers to exercise, that
mysterious second-sight, as it is called, which
she considered as far more unerring than any
merely optical seeing, and which she herself
regarded with superstitious awe. But not
always did these trances or visions come upon
her unexpectedly and irresistibly ; more frequently

than not she knew of their imminent
advent, and was able by a strong effort of her
will to resist their impelling power, and ever
since her vision of Mona's death she had so
overcome any threatened trance-state, not
from any fear concerning herself, but dreading
that she might be made acquainted with
some evil fate in store for her beloved little
Lora.

To-night she felt ill and weak and hopeless.
Her great strength of character seemed to
melt like wax, and she knew that she had not
the physical vigour just then to undergo, without
severe subsequent suffering, any such strain
on the nervous system as a 'vision' would
entail. Accordingly, when she realised that
the sight ' was coming to her, she made
every effort to resist the mysterious influence
or impulse, endeavouring, by attending to
the smouldering peat-fire, or by nursing the
child, to engross herself in common-place
details.

But gradually her resistance grew weaker,
despite every effort, a fact which she at last

recognised, and in which she finally wearied
acquiesced.

For some minutes she sat on a low stool by
the fire, gazing into it intently but vaguely, the
vacant look in her face belying the fixedness of
her gaze. Then gradually the lines in her
worn face deepened, her lips became compressed,
her face grew haggard, and in her
eyes there burned a dull flame, which almost
seemed like smouldering fires, born from too
long and intent a gaze ou the glowing red
mass of the peat in the grate. Once she lifted
up her head and listened with strained attention,
remaining thus for some time. Then
again she relapsed into sudden lassitude,
the dull light in her eyes almost ebbing
away, and her nervous hands hanging down
by her side in an attitude of absolute prostration.


Outside the wind howled with ever-increasing
force, at frequent intervals hurling the
smoke down the short chimney again, and
filling the room as with a keenly pungent mist.
On the low, dark bed built into the wall lay

the child Lora, sound asleep, and all unheeding
either the rage of the storm or the strange
woman who sat brooding, and sometimes murmuring
fitfully, by the red glare of the burning
seats.

Suddenly Mary rose and walked swiftly
towards the door, her eyes flaming like
those of one in supreme excitement; but
ere she had crossed half-way she sank on
her knees, and with outstretched, rigid arms
cried out in Gaelic, and in tones that were
almost a chant, words broadly explanatory of
her vision :

'What do I see! What do I see! Blackness
and deep darkness, wild seas and furious
wind — a gi-eat deep, in the midst whereof are
two ships rushing madly on each other ! Beware,
beware ! ship will crash into ship, and
every soul on board will struggle in the throes
of death. Ah — h — h, merciful Heaven! they
have met and one has driven in the other as an
avalanche from a mountain crashes through
the forest in the hillside ! AVild confusion,
clamour, shrieking of affrighted men, prayers,

blasphemy, turbulence of wind and sea, the
horrible calm of the few unclouded stars — I see
it all, all, and there is no help, no help I Life
after life goes out before me, is sucked down
like a straw in a whirlpool ! A whirlpool !
See, see, yonder vessel swings round on its hull
like an animal still struggling against death,
though the film is over its eyes, and its heart's
blood is soaking the ground. Look, it goes
down, down, the dark waters rushing round
it faster and faster, whirling in their restless
current spars and barrels and ropes
and human beings and wildly struggling
animals — down, down it goes, the whirlpool
surging more and more fiercely, devouring
everything it can attract with its horrible
whirling mouth! All gone at last! Only
black seas washing away into the darkness,
wave striking against wave, a savage coronach
for the dead. But lo ! the other ship ! It
has drifted away, but is sinking fast also. How
it lurches, like a stricken deer upon the steeps
of Macdhui ! See, boats have been launched !
Vain hopes, vain efforts ! One is swamped ;

another; yet another! My God, have mercy
on these poor, wildly-shrieking souls ! How
horrible those many pairs of Avhite hands
fluttering helplessly above the drowning waves !
Ah — h — h, one boat has escaped awhile ; it
mil not Hve long ! yet see how it breasts the
furious seas — a strong hand guides that helm.
Poor handful of men, what use to prolong the
struggle — it is only holding back the jaw of
death a few agonised moments ! Brave men !
see, they strive hard to save one or two fast-perishing
lives. Away, beyond their grasp,
sweeps one body which they had just clutched ;
oh, what depths of awful despair in those eyes
ere their wild light is quenched for ever ! Thank
God, they have saved another life ; see, a man
pulls the drowning wretch out from amidst the
furious waves ! Ah, what do I see — what do I
see V (and here Mary's loud chanting voice broke
into a hoarse scream) — ' More sorrow, more
death to those I have known ! You two to
meet thus in death ! It is doom, it is doom !' —
and with a gurgling cry Mary M'lan fell forward
on the floor, and swooned into a death-like faint.

Above the tumult of the storm her scream had
been heard by her neighbour Neil Neilson, who
hurriedly ran from his adjoining sterling and
thrust open the door. While lifting the motionless
woman from the floor, and half-dragging,
half-lifting her to the bed, he shuddered superstitiously
as he muttered, with pale lips,

She has had the sight again ; God keep her
gaze away from me and mine !*

CHAPTER I.

A TERRIBLE ENCOUNTER.

Day after day passed wearily for Hew Armytage
on board the Fair Hope. There were few
passengers, and none to whom he felt in the
least degree drawn. The usual monotonous
round of amusements was somewhat feebly and
indifferently carried out by the occupiers of
the saloon and second cabin ; but it was not
long before they discovered that they could
expect neither gaiety nor sympathetic attention
from this sad, taciturn Mr. Armitage, who spoke
only when he was spoken to, who seemed
desirous of neither companionship nor sympathy,
and who lived amongst them more like the
semblance of a man than as a fellow-being. It
VOL. II. F

gradually became understood that he had
suffered some terrible grief, and that he was
seeking a new country in the hope of escaping
agonising associations, and of gaining such
peace of mind as might be possible. He had
already changed greatly from the Hew Armytage
of a few months ago. Grey hairs streaked
his dark locks, lines that grew daily deeper
furrowed his forehead and crept stealthily
through the hollows beneath the eyes. But in
bodily strength he remained as vigorous as of
yore. He had a daily habit of going on to
the forecastle and leaning against the end of
the bowsprit, a position whence he could see
neither ship nor passengers nor crew, nothing
but the unending waste of ocean, far away
across which lay that distant island-continent,
somewhere wherein were to be found two human
beings whom it was now Armitage's sole aim
in life to discover — one to save from dishonour
and misery, the other to be dealt with according
to the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth fora
tooth.

The Bay of Biscay had been left behind ; the

I

Fair Hope had sailed close to those ever-charming
isles of the Canaries ; had rolled heavily in
the trying calms of the dog-latitudes, and been
covered with hot, red-brown sand blown from
the eastward Sahara; had sped southwest
and again south-eastward, through the
favouring trade-winds, the pitch in the seams
of the deck-planks bubbling and frizzling under
the blaze of the equatorial sun ; had at last
rounded the Cape of Good Hope, and through
a series of gales had ultimately worked her way
well down into the lonely southern seas,
wherein few ships are ever to be descried, and
where even the tireless albatross is an infrequent
visitor.

Gradually, and in some ways no doubt mercifully.
Hew had sunk into a state of mental torpor,
of spiritual apathy. He knew he was miserable,
and that his hopefulness was almost as
terrible as hopelessness ; but the poignancy of
his emotions had become blunted, and lie
lived through each day in a state of vague
unrest and dulled wretchedness. Only when
the ship laboured among the threatening seas,

f2

and the wind shrieked among the rigging
lowing and roaring like a famished beast of
prey, did he shake off this torpor, and feel
surging in him again virile life-blood ; feel his
nerves become braced, and his energy return
with even greater strength than of yore. Th
sailors who saw him at such times noticed how
his eyes flashed, how his strong hands grasped
rope or stanchion, how he seemed to grow a
new man — vigorous, inflexible, filled with might
and daring. One night the boatswain remarked
to a companion that it was his belief that that
Mr. Armitage was ' a chasing some party, and
that if he caught him it would be a bad look-out
for the latter. Hev you noticed, Jim, 'ow he
stands on the fo'cs'le an' doesn't care two straws
whether he's soaked by the seas we ship ? I've
seen him more than once holding on to the
rigging, an' peering out into the darkness with
the eagerness look in his eyes a man could have:
an' then I've seen him clench his hands and
twist a rope to and fro as savagely as if he'd
got his worst enemy's throat in his grasp, all
the while muttering' words I couldn't catch, but

which, likes enough, wor a regular bliie-blaze o'
€ussin\'

But such occasions' were naturally not very
frequent. For the most part he passed his days
as might one dazed by crushing misfortune.
When, in fine weather, passengers and crew
joined in making the moon-Kt evenings festal
with singing, music, and dancing, he kept away
from the main deck, either throwing himself
wearily on his bunk or retreating to the far end
of the poop to listen there to the rush of the
water around the helm. The music saddened him
beyond measure. It touched chords which quivered
responsively for many successive hours, each
single strain sounding to his ears like an echo of
that music of which Mona used to be so passionately
fond, and with which she had inacle so
many of his evenings memorably and now
pathetically beautiful. Perhaps neither the boatswain's
accorded nor the cook's fiddle were fine
instruments, or the manipulation of either likely
to gain applause elsewhere than on ship-board,
yet as the blended strains reached him, softened
by even such a short distance and by the mellow

ocean air, their pathos seemed to him ahiiost
unbearable exquisite. But not infrequently he
overcame this tender grief which the music induced,
and rising abruptly strode backwards
along the lonely poop, hardening his heart
against all softening influences, and brooding
with renewed vividness of memory over all the
e\al that had been done to him and Mona by
the devil who had entered with his curse into
their seemingly secure Paradise.

Among the passengers there was a Mr. Morton,
a middle-aged man, and the only one to
whom Armitage had ever felt the least inclination
to unbend in some slight degree ; and it
was this Mr. Morton who for some time past had
been so eccentric in his sayings and actions as to
alarm the other voyagers. Some trifling matter,
an altercation over a game of whist after the consumption
of a little too much spirits, had brought
things to a crisis, and with terrible suddenness Mr.
Morton became a raving maniac. It was afterwards
ascertained that he had not long left an
asylum, having been discharged therefrom as
cured, and that he had been advised to throw up

his business connections in Scotland, and join ibis
brother in Melbourne.

The passenger who shared the large stern
cabin With him had to remove elsewhere, and the
unfortunate madman was left by himself securely
fastened in an improvised strait-waistcoat.
Naturally this circumstance greatly depressed
the spirits of all on board, including the captain,
who now began to fear that his remissness in the
matter of sailing without a doctor would ultimately
be brought against him with unpleasant
consequences. At night the unhappy man was
wont to become excited, and the saloon would
resound with his shrieking exclamations and the
snarling of his aimless fury. Laughter and fun
died away among the voyagers in the Fair Hope,
and heartily everyone wished that the beacon-light
of Cape Otway would soon be sighted ; but,
as for Armitage, the unpleasant event recorded
made no perceptible difference to him, he having
become callous to everything save his own
grief.

Extremes meet — strength and weakness at
times find themselves in parallel grooves — hence

the paradoxical fact of a man of such mental
and physical robustness, such spiritual virility, as
Hew Armitage yielding to an apathy that another
of less intense nature would have overcome. He
had always despised weakness ; had always believed
in and preached fortitude ; yet here,
though only for a time indeed, he was as bowed
down under his burden as might have been the
weakest soul he had ever known.

The vessel was now somewhere in the neighbourhood
of St. Paul's, and the captain informed
the cabin passengers one day it was possible
they might get a glimpse in the evening of
that loneliest of islands, a mass of barren, lifeless
rock lying far down in the South Seas, and out
of the accustomed track of ships bound either
east or west.

Within the past week Armitage had slowly
shaken off the extreme apathy which had overtaken
him, and he even seemed to at last realise
the terrible catastrophe to which Mr. Morton
had succumbed. One day he startled the
captain by saying quietly to him that he would
be willing to sit a while by Mr. Morton, as he

felt certain that a calm, unemotional presence
would have the best effect on the poor maniac's
shattered nerves, and the result proved Armitage
to have surmised aright.

Whenever and as long as the latter sat
beside him, though he spoke little, and did nothing
to divert him, Mr. Morton became quiet
and tractable. Perhaps great sorrow and madness
are closely allied — sufficiently so, at any
rate, for a mysterious, sympathetic bond to unite
two persons so suffering. But, from whatever
cause, the invalid was no longer a maniac, but
was as one simply devoid of reason. The relief
to everyone was very great, and, strangely
enough, it became apparent that the daily procedure
was having almost as salutary an effect
on Armitage as on Mr. Morton, and it even
became a thing of not infrequent occurrence to
hear the former say a few words voluntarily,
and at rare intervals join in a conversation.

The morning on which Captain Blake had informed
his companions that they might expect
that evening to get a glimpse of St. Paul's, lead
succeeded two days of boisterous storm, and

the great green billows which surged after the
Fair Hope showed how heavy had been the prolonged
blast of the gale. But on this morning
the wind had moderated to a delightful breeze,
and the seas, though still running to great
heights and depths, were slowly declining from
that titanic violence which made them so
terrible for the landsman to look upon.

The sight was one of extreme beauty as well
as grandeur. Far as the eye could see lay the
ocean, a waste of mountainous green billows
innumerably breaking into masses of dazzling
foam. Every here and there flew along clouds
of driven spray, the iridescent particles of which
shone so brilliantly that it seemed as if each
flying spray-drift were the disembodied spirit of
a rainbow ; and above all hung the dome of the
purplish-blue sky, almost unchecked with clouds,
save here and there a thin and wind-curled
grey-mare's tail. No other vessel was in sight,
but backward and forward across the Fair
Hopes track sailed high two snow-white albatrosses.
When one of these would swoop close
to the turbulent seas, and the next moment

emerge from the unseen hollow of two great
billows, it was as if the foam of a wave had
been translated into material form and beauty,
a bird of supreme grace and power instead of
a Venus Anadyomene. And like some great
winged bird was the Fair Hope herself, her
broad sails spread out like sweeping pinions, as
if she were just about to rise from out of
and soar away from the green heights and
depths upon which she moved With such buoyant
grace.

An electric current of cheerfulness passed
throughout the ship. Every one felt the joyousness
of the outer world, all except the poor
madman in the stern-cabin, and even Hew
Armitage threw off his despondency and walked
to and fro upon the poop with an air almost of
elation.

As the day waxed towards noon, and waned
slowly through the uneventful hours thereafter,
the sea moderated with surprising rapidity.
The huge billows, with their cavernous, hollow
depths of emerald, subsided into foamy, heavy
rollers, and these again, as the wind almost died

away, into a long swell. If it had not been fora
strong favouring current, the Fail' Hope would
not have made any way during the late afternoon.
As it was, it was not till about two
hours from dusk that the look-out man signalled
land ahead, a very that brought everyone on
deck, though it was some time before there
became perceptible to every eye a shadowy
outline which rose above the horizon like the
end of a small smoke-coloured cloud. The
lastly-calming sea, the presence of such a
novelty as land, even though only a barren
rock, and the prospect of a fine moonlit evening
that would permit of music and dancing,
wrought as great a change among the
passengers as if they had just emerged from a
land of gloom and darkness into one of brightness
and joy.

But Armitage noticed that Captain Blake
seemed ill at ease, and, seeing him standing
considerably apart from any of the passengers,
he went up to him and asked if there were not
some change in the weather imminent.

Not knowing that his questioner had spoken at

haphazard, the captain, before answering, shot a
quick side-long glance at Hew, as if surprised
that an amateur sailor should make such a
shrewd surmise.

Yes, sir. I thought the gale had blown
itself out, but, if I am not mistaken, we'll be
scudding along before midnight under pretty
bare poles. But whether the gale we've just
got out of was cyclonic, or whether it's a fresh
one we're going to have, puzzles me ; it
wouldn't be the first time I've had one of the
cyclone-kind in these seas, and they're always
the worst, for you're never sure how suddenly
they'll swoop down on you, and from what
quarter they'll come. It's my opinion we'll seethe
tale-end of the last gale, and, though it
mayn't cause a heavy sea, I must take care it
doesn't catch us unawares. At sundown we'll
be having a breath from the westward, but I
hope it's no more than a breath, so that we may
not be taken aback. I'll go below again and
see if the glass is still falling.'

The sun became an orb of fiery gold as it
declined towards the western horizon, but as

its lower rim touched the sea-line and sent a
shimmering stream of light across the waters,
its central fires seemed to deepen into crimson
and to pulsate in a curious and ominous fashion.
The sky had changed into a chilly blue, and a
few clouds that congregated in the west, purple
and dove-hued mostly, slowly merged into
one broad, luminous band of plum-coloured
effulgence. When at last the sun had half-disappeared
it was an absolute red — the dull,
purplish red of blood — and the same hue permeated
and rendered still more impressively
ominous the plum-tinted cloud-band.

Once that the blood-red orb had sunk below
the horizon, darkness came almost literally in
one stride, realising, in Hew's mind, the vivid
lines of Coleridge in the 'Ancient Mariner.'
Then out of the east rose, nearly full, the orange-yellow
disc of the moon, repeating itself in a
myriad reflections along the rising and falling
sea. Sirius hung high in brilliant flame, and the
Southern Cross slanted scintillating against the
rapidly deepening blue of the dome-like
heaven.

The ominoiisness, or the impressive solemnity,
of the sunset had awed everyone on board into
bashfulness of speech, if not of thought, but
now the moon had risen, and everyone was
more or less possessed by the excitement of
visible land — for St. Paul's now loomed larger
and larger from over-sea.

As the moon more amply illuminated the
island. Hew saw what looked like a solid wall
of stone rising out of the sea, breaking at a considerable
elevation into long irregular terraced
ledges. There was not a sign of vegetation,
nor the faintest token visible that it had ever
sheltered human beings — as it is known to have
done on several occasions — and it looked altogether
so cheerless, so hopelessly barren, so
despairingly lifeless, that Hew felt relieved
when it imperceptibly but surely became more
and more shadowy, and soon faded altogether
from view.

As the strength of the wind increased, there
drifted down upon the Fair Hope, from out of
the east, a thick, dripping sea-mist. This laid
everything from view beyond a distance of

twenty or thirty yards, and gradually it became
thicker, till those leaning over the poop
taffrail were unable to descry the lantern-light
flashing across the waves. Most of the passengers
had gone below, and the majority of them
were already asleep: but Armitage, as usual,
was the last of them to leave the deck. As the
fog had become so disagreeably wet, he was
about to go below also, when he stumbled
against the oilskin-protected figure of Captain
Blake.

A nasty night this, sir, isn't it V remarked
the latter.

Yes,' replied Hew. * Do you thinly it's
Hkely to be an all-night's mist V

No, it'll lift in an hour or two at fm-these,
unless the change of the wind I'm expecting
doesn't take place. I'm expecting a sudden
and stiff breeze from the north-east. Griffiths !'
he called out to the man at the wheel, ' how's
her head now?'

Sou'-east-by-east, sir.'

Keep her steady at that. Yes, Mr. Armitage,'
he resumed, 'it's a nasty night, but not so

bad as if we were in the Channel — eh? Too
many ships there to be pleasant. Not much
chance of collisions clown hereabouts, thank
goodness. I've got a chill, I think, in the
beastly mist, so I'll break through my rule
for once, and have a drop of hot grog to
keep the cold out. Will you have some
yourself?'

On hearing no reply he looked round, and
saw Armitage with his head inclined to leeward
and in an attitude as of listening intently.

What are you listening to V asked Captain
Blake, sharply.

I thought I heard a shout away to the left,
as if some command were being given to a
crew.'

With a swift spring the captain reached the
larboard side of the poop, and, leaning against
the taffrail, strained his ears to the utmost, but
without hearing the slightest sound.

'Your imagination has played you false,
sir he said to Armitage, in a tone of irritated
uneasiness.

At this moment six bells was struck, the

VOL. II. G

vibration reaching them as if from a near but
muffled drum.

Almost simultaneously six bells sounded
faintly to leeward — so faintly that Captain
Blake mistrusted his sense of hearing.

Did you hear anything V he asked, rapidly
and eagerly.

I thought I heard something like the echo
of six bells.'

Echo ! Good God ! if you heard it too it
was no echo. All hands on deck !' he thundered
out. *Here you, Morris, cut aloft
and see if you can see above the mist to
leeward !'

Then, hollowing both hands before his mouth,
he bellowed with all his power,
Ship ahoy !'

Ship ahoy !' came back startlingly near,
and almost at the same moment a huge,
shadowy mass loomed out of the mist and
darkness.

A ship, all sails set, and bearing right for the
waist of the Fahr Hope at a distance of less
than twenty yards! — no wonder that a loud,

shuddering cry of warning, consternation,
chilling horror rose up from the decks of both
vessels.

Starboard the helm I' yelled Captain Blake,
but, though his order was instantaneously
carried out, it was too late to avert the
catastrophe.

Probably, if instantaneous orders had
been given by the officer in command onboard
the other vessel, the result might have
been different: but the suddenness of the
impending collision had evidently paralysed all
action.

The swerving of the Fair Hope to starboard
simply postponed for a moment the crash of
vessel into vessel As if propelled by Titanic
force, down came the huge bulk of the other
ship. There was one terrific crash — a united
scream from many throats — and then all was
wild confusion, tumult, hoarse cries of command,
and the shrieking of panic-stricken
passengers.

The Fair Hope had been stricken right amid-ship,
and with such fearful force that it soon

g2

became evident she was about to sink at
once. Already she had settled down into the
jolting waves and heavy swell, and it was a
realization of the terribly imminent danger
that caused all on board to lose self-control.
When the cry came to get out the boats,
there was a wild rush for the latter. Alas,
two of these had been stowed in during the
collision. The others were hurriedly launched,
and filled with reckless haste, so that no sooner
had one of them sheered off than it was
overturned by a surging billow, the result
being that everyone on board was thrown into
the sea — there all, more or less speedily, to
perish.

Why came no help from the other vessel?
But there, also, unfortunately, was the same
condition of things, for the ship had sustained
fatal damage in the collision, and, though she
would not disappear with such fearful rapidity
as the Fair Hope, she could by no possibility
remain another hour above water. Her
boats were lowered, aud filled with greater
care than those of the vessel she had run

into, but even therewith two-thirds of the
lives were lost.

It was everywhere a case of ' save one's self.'
There was nothing but reckless haste, furious
jostling, men cursing their fellows, and struggling
like a maddened herd of bison fleeing
from a prairie-fire.

On the poop lay Captain Blake, killed at the
moment of the collision by a spar that had
crushed down on his head. Near the body
stood Hew Armitage, looking scornfully at the
wild scene being enacted along the decks, but
apparently indifferent to his fate.

Was he glad of such a solution to all his
troubles that he made no effort to save his life,
or was it simply that he realised the certainty
of death, the hopelessness of any endeavour,
the fatuity of a struggle with the inevitable.
No, not the latter, for he was not the kind of
man to succumb, even under the most overwhelming
odds.

But as he stood watching his opportunity —
which was to plunge overboard with a life-spelt,
and, as he was a powerful swimmer, try to

make bis way to the other vessel, Which
though in dire straits was not in such a desperate
state as the Fair Hope — of a sudden
he heard a horrible screaming from the cabin.
The poor madman, Morton, had realised the fact
that he was about to be drowned like a rat in a
cage : and already, no doubt, the "vater was
rushing in great lurches across the floor of his
cabin.

Poor wretch,' muttered Hew, ' he shall have
a chance for his life like the rest of us. A poor
chance, indeed, but the women and the helpless
come first,' and suiting his action to his words
he bounded down the poop stairs, rushed
through the saloon, in which, truly enough,
the water already slipped to and fro, and, bursting
open the door of Mr. Morton's cabin, he
seized the shrieking maniac by the hand and
dragged him with him up on to the main
deck. What a sickening feeling was caused
by the absolute absence of all buoyancy in the
planks of the ship — it was as though they had
become sodden and sponge-like, and Armitage
knew that in another minute or two the ship

would give the last fatal lurch and disappear
for ever.

Already the decks were silent and deserted —
deserted save for three corpses ; that of the
captain on the poop, and those of two passengers
who had met their death in the frantic rush for
the boats.

Springing on to the bulwarks and supporting
himself and his companion, the latter now subdued
through excess of terror, Hew saw that only
one of .the boats had managed to keep afloat,
but it was already full, and he heard one of the
crew shout out to the boatswain at the helm to
sheer off as the ship was about to go doAvn and
would drag them down also in the whirlpool it
would cause.

At this supreme moment surged upon Armytage
in all its force that passionate clinging to
life which is innate in us all, however much life
may have lost for us all savour.

'For God's sake, give us our chance, too !' he
cried. ' Don't leave us to drown like rats, men.
There's time enough yet to take us on board and
then to sheer off.'

Back-water !' shouted the boatswain to the
men at the oars, and amid fmious cries of protestation
and even threatened violence, the
long-boat surged close to the ship, yet not
close enough for the two men to spring into
it.

Hold hard, Mr. Armitage,' cried the boatswain
; ' we haven't room for more than one, and
barely even for that. But let the madman go,
and we'll do our best to pick you up when you
spring.'

Can't you take both of us T

No, hy heaven, we can't and we won't.
Jump at once, if you're not a worse fool than the
man beside you !'

Then save this poor wretch, and leave me to
take care of myself.' And, before another expostulation
could reach him, Armitage told Mr.
Morton to spring as far as he could, which
the man at once did, falling so close to the
long-boat that he was at once drawn in. If
he had not so fallen, there is no doubt he would
have been left to drown, for the boat had
already its full complement, and no one saw

the use of risking other lives for the sake of a
madman.

Sheer off, sheer off,' cried many imperative
voices.

You've made your choice, and you must
abide by it,' called out the boatswain to Armytage,
and therewith the boat was allowed to
drift rapidly away from the doomed vessel.

Hew stood on the Fair Hope, the only living
soul thereon. Looking towards the other ship,
he noticed that she, too, was rapidly settling
down, that apparently all her boats had been
lowered, and that the cutter was a little to leeward
of her bows.

Running with utmost speed till he reached
the forecastle, Armitage clambered rapidly along
the bowsprit, and from there dropped into the
sea. He had done this from the knowledge
that the ship was about to sink, and that the
further away he got from the eddy round the
hull the better chance he would have. No
sooner, indeed, had he taken his leap than a
great quiver vibrated through the vessel, the
masts shook and swayed to and fro, and there

was plainly to be heard the rending of planks
along the fore-deck. Slowly the bowsprit rose
and pointed to the sky at an angle of forty-five
degrees — then backward, backward still, till the
ship stood erect on her hull. One vain lurch
forward, a sound like a prolonged sigh, a furious
rush of smiling water, and the Fair Hope, slowly
at first, but soon rapidly, sank beneath the waves
amidst a crashing chaos of broken spars and
other timber. Her bowsprit remained pointing
upwards a few moments after the forecastle had
been submerged, and the onlookers saw that it
moved in a sweeping circle, showing how
powerful was the whirlpool that had been
created by the submersion of such a great inert
mass.

But at the moment when the hull had first
disappeared it had caused a furious resurge of
water, which, sweeping in great volume against
a rival surge caused by a sudden lurch on the
part of the other ship, created such a turbulent
upheaval that the boat into which Armitage
had been the means of getting Morton was
filled immediately, was turned over by the

terrified occupants, and disappeared below the
waves, leaving all to struggle in the violent
sea.

Meanwhile Hew had swum with all his might
in the direction of the cutter of the other ship,
which he had seen lying to the leeward of the
latter's bows. But, despite his great strength,
he would inevitably have succumbed to the
double washing of the cumbersome cross seas
and to the innumerable spars and heavy miscellanea
that covered the surface, and from
which he had more than once a narrow escape
of having his head smashed in, if, fortunately
for him, the cutter had not come round to the
starboard side of the ship, the few men on board
of her having heard the drowning shrieks of
those who had just been upset from the longboat
of the Fair Hope.

He was perceived just as he was about to
sink in an eddy into whose influence he had
drifted, and against which, half-blinded and
wholly dazed as he was, he had begun to feel
unable to further struggle.

But the moment he was in the cutter he recovered

consciousness. Only five men were in
it, and in reply to his question he was informed
that all the other boats of the vessel beside
them had been successfully launched, and that
no lives had as yet been lost. As the cutter
swung round to reach the scene of the latest
disaster, Armitage caught a vanishing glimpse
of the ship's name along the bows, but so dazed
was he still that, though something at once
touched him troublously, he was able to associate
nothing therewith.

The next moment the cutter was among the
floating debris of the upturned boat.

But two of the other boats had been there
already, and the greater number of the unfortunate
wretches had been rescued from at least
immediate death. Several of the people aboard
the ship which had run down the Fair Hope lead
jumped overboard in the sudden panic that
ensued, but all these had been subsequently
taken aboard in the small boats — all with one
exception, a man with a life-belt, and the same
who now clung to a great floating spar that had
belonged to the sunken ship, and to which were

also despairingly clasped two of those who had
been upon the latter, and Who had been upset
from the long-boat.

In the direction of this spar the cutter was
with difficulty and danger urged. The steersman
gave a grab at the figure nearest him, but
the poor fellow slipped from his hold, and sank
at once with a gurgling, despairing groan. One
of the men at the bow-oar was more successful
With the second man, and as the latter was
hauled into the cutter Armitage recognised the
face of the poor maniac whose safety he had
unselfishly done his best to secure. The man
with the life-belt was crying wildly on the
others to save him, and, in his extremity of fear
lest the cutter should be unable to remain close
to the heavy and wildly-tossing spar, he flung
himself towards the boat, but, missing his grasp
of the gunwale, he fell back into the trough of
the sea, and would have been sucked away
by the strong eddy had not Armitage at
great risk clutched him by the clothes at the
nape of his neck, and held him so until, with
other assistance, he was able to haul the man
in.

While clutching the man with all his muscles
strained to the utmost. Hew heard some one
behind him cry out, * There goes the poor old
Australasian !'

Australasian ! Australasian I The ship in which
Leith and Mona had sailed !

A burst of flame showed that something onboard
had become ignited. There was a wild
shout, ' She's on fire — she's on fire !' but Hew
Armitage for a moment heard or saw nothing —
nothing else than the face of the man before
him, the man whom he had just dragged from
the very jaws of death. The man also recognised
him.

Blanched to a deathly pallor, shaking as with
ague, but in reality with a horror and dread
greater than that caused by imminent drowning,
was the face of Charles Leith as he
crouched close to the gunwale of the boat —
shivering and cowering like a trapped wolf.

CHAPTER 11.

WAITING FOR DEATH.

The glare of the burning ship grew fiercer
and fiercer, but still Hew Armitage bent forward
staring fixedly, but without speech or
motion, on the white face of Charles Leith, as
the latter crouched low in an absolute fascination
of fear.

But suddenly Armitage rose to his feet,
and, stooping forward, shouted, hoarsely and
eagerly,

Where is Mona ? — where is my wife ?
Speak, you accursed hound ! Is my wife in
one of the other boats, or have you left her onboard
to perish by fire or sea?'

Clasping Armitage round the knees, the
wretched man moaned out for mercy.

Mercy, mercy I' he cried ; ' it was all a lie.
Your-^vife never Alas on board. She did not
come away with me. She was not on board.
Help"! men ; do not let him kill me.'

Liar ! She must be dead, and you have
caused her death. But do not think you will
escape me — your hour has come !' And with
these wild words Armitage sprang at the abject
figure that shrank cowering back into the
bows. A scream rang hoarsely across the sea
as With relentless, savage hands, Hew clutched
his foe by the neck and shook him as a
terrier does a rat. The man's life would
literally have been shaken out of him if one
of the sailors had not dragged Armitage
back, and then, seeing that the latter had
the lust of blood with an intensity that would
brook no interference, crashed down upon
his head one of the heavy wooden foot-spars.
Armitage fell to the bottom of the
boat like a log. Leith gave one long sigh
of relief as he thought his foe lay there

dead, but mali all speed he crawled away
from the bows and sank exhausted in the stern-sheets.


That's right, Jim,' said the steersman, who
was the third mate of the Australasian; 'it's
little enough chance of our lives we have
without having the boat upset by these fools.
Look here, you chap,' he went on, addressing
himself to Leith ; ' air you a-going' to begin this
business again when your friend comes to — if
he ever does, that's to say? No, you're not,
you say? What? — you ask for protection?
Oh, we've nothing to do with your cursed
quarrel ; but this much I will say, and that is
there's to be no fighting in this 'ere boat, leastways,
as long as me and my mates is in it.'

A loud hail from the captain of the Australasian
brought the boats round the gig, though
this was not accomplished without much difficulty,
owing to the nasty cross sea which was
washing to and fro. Fortunately the mist had
cleared off, and, though there was only a faint
light from the moon, the blazing ship illuminated
the ocean for leagues round.

VOL. II. H

When the five boats were all in close proximity,
Captain Hedderwick shouted out a few
words of advice and information.

This has been a bad night for all of us but
we mustn't grumble, for we might well have
shared the fate of the poor fellows who have
gone down before our eyes. Let us keep
together if we can, and I think we'll manage it,
for the wind's slackening a bit, and the sea
wont rise any more for a while. We must keep
together, for there's been no time to get
much in the way of water and food, and
what there is is all on board the gig here.
But we're close to St. Paul's, and we'll scrape
along there all right till a ship takes us ofi".
It's in the track, men, or not far out of it,
anyway.'

Mr. Morrison — Johnson — Brown — Sheffield —
have you got the course right ? It's sour-west
as straight as you can go !'

Ay, ay, sir,' came from the four men named
the three mates and boatswain of the
Australasian.

Well, we can't go wrong with this wind.

Remember, straight sour-west; but all the
same keep together. We ought to reach the
island in a few hours at most. We won't
wait to see the poor old Australasian go down,
men, though it nigh breaks my heart to leave
her.'

A cheer, faint indeed, but still a cheer,
came from the men in the different boats,
though at what or for what they cheered, poor
fellows, it would have puzzled any of them
to say.

Brighter and brighter grew the blaze of
the burning and sinking ship, though every
minute the flames became more obscured by
the dense volumes of smoke generated by
the increasing influx of water within the
cracking timbers. Suddenly there was the
same prolonged, shuddering sigh as had preluded
the sinking of the Fair Hope. Then,
again, in a similar way, rose the bowsprit of
the Australasian, but, instead of singing by the
the hull, she seemed to rise bodily out of the
water ; there was one huge burst of fiery flame
shooting far above thick volumes of smoke —

ha

roar or crash like no natural sound — and the
gi-eat ship fell asunder in a hundred parts,
nothing remaining of her save floating and
still spluttering or burning spars and confused
debris.

But, as if the scene was some melodramatic
representation on a gigantic scale, the curtain
fell upon this startling climax ; the mist
came down again, and before they realised
the fact the occupants of the boats had completely
lost sight of each other. Through the
damp sea-fog came the voice of Captain Reddere
:

I'll fire a pistol now and again, and you keep
on hailing frequently.'

Half an-hour passed, and, though the
different steersmen did not know it, every
minute widened the distance between the
boats, and, when the fifth shot was fired, it
was with alarm that those in the cutter, at
any rate, realised from how far away came the
sound.

The third mate, Brown, rose in the stern-sheets
and halloed strenuously.

Hoy-oy-oy !' came faintly from the distance
to starboard.

Is that the gig there V he shouted.

No answer came, or, if one was given, it did
not reach so far.

Again, and with increased strength. Brown
shouted his question, and he and his companions
could just hear the answer :

No, the long-boat.'

Have you a compass aboard r

'Ay, ay.'

Then draw near us if you can, for we have
none. Do you hear V

But no reply came, and it was almost certain
that those in the long-boat could not have heard
the last shouted message.

Curse this fog !' muttered Brown ; * we mayor
may not be near St. P paul's, but if this mist
doesn't clear we may see neither boats nor island
at daybreak.'

Without a compass, without water or food,
without even a sufficiency of clothing, those
on board the cutter were in dire plight indeed.
Meanwhile one of the men jumped into

the bows in order to discover whether Armitage
were dead or ave, and he was almost at once
able to call out that the man was living, and
had apparently sustained no other injury thana
nasty braise along the head. Splashing
some sea-water over the pale, blood-stained
face, he had the satisfaction at last to hear
a long sigh, and to see Armitage slowly and
wearied open his eyes. For some moments
the latter seemed unable to realise what had
happened ; then, leaning on the sailor's arm, he
hastily sat up and looked to his right side, as
if expecting to see Leith still crouching there.
But almost simultaneously he caught sight of
the man whom he had such deep cause to hate
and, staggering to his feet, would have sprung
him again if his weakness had not proved
too much for him, so that he would have
fallen had he not been caught in time by his
companion.

Look here !' shouted the third mate, ' I
give you a fair warning ! If you come
abaft the mast well heave you overboard, assure
as you're a having man. What's your
name V

'My name is Armitage.'

Well, you, Mr. Armitage, and you, Mr.
Charles, or as your friend calls you, Mr.
Leith, I tell you once and for all that thereto
be no more of this. If we get to St
Paul's, and the captain's there, he can judge,
and if our boat alone get there you can settle
the matter as you like, so long's it's a fight on
the square. But nothing more is to be said just
now.^

Hour after hour dragged onward, and at
last those in the cutter knew that the dawn
was at hand. With what intense eagerness
did these ship"^T.'ecked men watch the
gradual attenuation of that vaporous curtain
which shrouded from them the sight which
they so eagerly desired to see, one which
they did not dare to imagine might be denied
them.

Slowly the mist grew thinner and thinner ;
for it did not rise but only gradually faded
under the ardent influence of the sun's warm
beams. When it had come to resemble a mere
gauzy veil, through which a golden glow was

disseminated, everyone on board eagerly scanned
the ever-widening distance — everyone except
poor Morton, the madman, who lay in the
waist of the boat and laughed vaguely at incoherent
phantasmal fancies of his own. Hew
stood in the bows, eager to catch a glimpse of
one or more of the other boats, in one of which
he might descry the pale and pathetic eyes of
Mona. In the stern-sheets half-knelt, half-crouched
Leith, his wandering gaze ever and
anon returning with furtive suddenness to the
upright figure of a man whom he dreaded
almost more than he hated, if that were possible.
As suddenly as a thin mountain-mist ^vill sometimes
withdraw from the swiftly sun-illumined
slopes, so vanished the vapour that dimly still
hung above the ocean. Vanished, and disclosed
— nothing. Nothing in sight ; not the faintest,
furthest, cloud-like vision of an island ; nota
single sail, large or small : not even a dismantled
boat, tossing about in the foam-crested
waves ; no, not even a bird ; absolutely nothing,
save wave breaking beyond wave in interminable
succession, till merged in the far-off blending

of sea and sky. It was some time before
the full reality dawned in the minds of those
who were so eagerly looking out.

An horn of wretchedness followed. The
litter loneliness appalled them, and none dared
to speak lest he should give expression to the
despair within him, The sheet had been allowed
to fill, and the cutter was driving rapidly
along, so that ere long, as they thought, the cone
of St. Paul's must soon rise above the horizon.
If they had had a compass on board, they would
have seen that they were sailing due south, but
even then they would not have known that
they were already hopelessly to the east of the
island.

Hunger, and worse still, thirst, had attacked
one and all. In the bows lay Armitage, his eyes
ceaselessly sweeping the horizon ; in the waist
of the cutter lounged the three seamen, cursing
their fate, and occasionally conferring together
in hoarsely muttered whispers; and in the
stern-sheets were Morton, Leith, and Mr.
Brown — the former crying and moaning at frequent
intervals, Leith seldom taking his eyes

away from Armitage, and the third mate constantly
scanning sea and sky, but often uneasily
watching the men in front of him, evidently
perturbed by the ominous glances now and
again cast in his direction. Hunger, thirst, exposure,
despair, all served to rouse the worst
passions of the three seamen, none of them a
good type of the class. But towards sundown,
and when it became apparent that there was
nothing to hope for till another day, they could
no longer restrain themselves.

Curse you,' cried one of them, addressing
himself to the third mate. ' It's owing to yom*
infernal folly that we've nuthin' aboard to eat
or drink. Didn't I offer to get something' or
other in afore we shoved off from the Australasia
and didn't you, like a fool, tell me never to
mind

It was for your own sake, Johnson; you
would have gone down with her if we had
waited longer.'

It's a lie, and ye know it. And, if we're
driven to the worst, it'll be your turn first.'

The mate shuddered as he listened, for he

knew what dreadful significance lay behind this
vague threat.

'None of your nonsense, Johnson, for I'm
not the man to stand it. I'm in command of
this boat, and I advise you, for your own sake
to keep quiet.'

Oh, ye do, do ye — then take that !^ — and
simultaneously the man hurled at Brown the
same spar with which Armitage had been
stricken down the night before.

The officer dodged it, and, handing the tiller
to Leith, sprang at his assailant.

There was a wild struggle, and the man fell
dead stabbed to the heart. Before the other
men realised this, they also attacked Brown, and
he would have fared badly, despite his long
knife, had not one of the men lost his footing,
stumbled, and fallen overboard. With all
speed the boat was brought to, but the man
never rose again, or if he did so for a moment
it was unperceived by those in the cutter.

Looking at the figure in the bottom of the
boat. Brown sav at a glance the sailor was
dead. Here were two of his dangerous

companions settled, and, though he had not
intentionally sought their death, he could not
help feeling relieved that the chances of his
being murdered were practically obviated.

Once the sun had set darkness came rapidly,
as it always does in these regions. A wild
cry of hope had come from Armitage just as
the great flaming disc dipped apparently into
the sea, and 'A sail! a sail!' startled everyone.
But it was only the white wing of a booby,
as the heavy bird swooped upward from a
wave.

The wind had moderated to a very faint
breeze, and threatened to die out altogether.
There was only one oar in the cutter, or the
mate would have supplemented the slight breath
of air with human labour. Anxiously he scanned
the sky, not only for a sign of a favouring
breeze, but for rain, for thirst had already
become a torment to them all.

'Can you steer, Mr. Leith ?' he asked,
suddenly.

*No.'

Can you, Mr. Armitage ? Yes ? Well, then,

you and I had better take the tiller by turns.
I'm half-dead with fatigue, so I'll take a turn
of sleep, if I can, and you might wake me if
any change comes on. Keep her pointing to
the west o' yon star. Look here, Mr. Leith;
you go up to the bows as soon as Mr. Armitage
is here.'

As the two men passed each other Leith
shrank with unmistakable apprehension from
the strange, steady, inflexible gaze of his mortal
enemy, but the latter said no word or made
no gesture as Leith slunk past him.

A few minutes later Mr. Brown was sound
asleep, and Sawyer appeared to be so also.
How ten-able, how mysterious was the hand of
fate, dimly conjectured Armitage ; how almost
incredible seemed his past memories ! A happy
home, a dearly-loved wife, honour, esteem
friendship — all that a man such as he could
wish or expect — what were these vain dreams,
these immaterial visions, these sweet but
dreadful, because tantalising, glimpses of a life
henceforth and for ever impossible? Far away
behind him lay all these things, farther away

than seem the joys of childhood in our saddened
maturity, almost as far away as the
hopes and beliefs of youth when we are old
and weary. Nothing was real but the present.
That he, Armitage, should sit in this small
craft, that beside him should He these men
asleep, that a few feet away should crouch
the figure of the villain who had wrought him
incalculable sorrow — should crouch there unharmed
and unquestioned — and that around
should be nothing but leagues upon leagues
of sea, moaning and heaving with the old
strange ocean murmur — nothing of this seemed
to him unreal or phantasmal, but rather the one
definite fact of life. All else might be illusion,
but herein he Heed and knew the terror of the
reality. Between that far-off dreamy past and
this inexplicable present mystery there lay a
mental gulf, a chasm wherein moved perpetually
shadows of hideous things — madness,
grief, agony, treachery, vileness, murder, shame,
death. What lay beyond ? What Hes beyond
the darkness of each night upon the seas of
earth ! Here the glory of a new dawn — there

the turbulence of wild waves, and the fierce
tumult of winds ; here sweltering heats, oily
stagnation, unruffled calms — there grey, bleak
skies brooding above greyer, bleaker waters,
icy tempests bearing snow and fog, clouds
heavy with thunder and with livid flanks
luridly aglow with sudden lightnings — these lie
beyond the darkness of each night upon the
seas of the earth. And as darkly mysterious
and uncertain seemed to Armitage the future
that lay before him, save that dimly
he felt there would be for him no cloudless
day — tempest and unnatural darkness
there would be, but no noon-glory, no evening
calm.

Vague thoughts, or rather involuntary reflections,
such as these shaped themselves in
his brain as he sat in the stern-sheets of the
cutter.

He had unconsciously been watching the
shadowy figure of Leith in the bows, and it
struck him that it became more and more
blurred, vaguer and vaguer. Looking round,
he saw that a mist was again coming down,

thinner, and probably much more transient
than the last, but enough to prevent the
sight perceiving further than half a boat's
length.

Whether from the chill of the mist, or from
some other cause, the third mate awoke
from his stupor, for it had been more stupor
than sleep, and mechanically took the tiller,
telling hermitage to take his turn of sleep if he
could.

It is well known that hunger intensifies the
sense of hearing. About half-an-hour after
Armitage had sunk forward in blissful unconsciousness,
Mr. Brown was puzzled by a
strange dragging sound. As he bent his head
to listen more intently, he fixed his eyes on
the blurred shape of the dead body a few feet
before him, and his blood grew chill as to his
horror he saw an arm unmistakably move
towards it.

Fastening the tiller, he crept slowly and
cautiously forward, and reached the middle
of the boat before, in the thick mist, he
could see what was occurring within arm's

length of him, and there crouched Sawyer,
like a vampire, over the dead body beside
him.

As a hyena or wolf will lift its head and
stare savagely and sullenly at an intruder,
while yet not deserting its carrion, so Sawyer
looked up and returned the gaze of the third
mate.

Rise up,' said the latter, in a loud, harsh
voice, ' and go into the bows.'

But the man only stared at him without change
of expression, and made no motion.

Do you hear ?' repeated the mate, taking a
step forward.

A coward at heart, the man yielded for the
moment to superior will, and sullenly and slowly
withdrew from the body and slunk backward
towards the bow seat.

Stooping swiftly, Brown dragged the corpse
on to the seat, and was just about to thrust it
over the gunwale, when the sailor furiously
shouted out,

Drop that game, I tell you !'

The mate laughed scornfully, and at the
VOL. IT. I

same moment thrust the body overboard.
But, before it disappeared from sight, Sawyer
had sprung at the mate, and the two men
were engaged in a terrible conflict for mastery.
Each had grasped the other's throat, and
in their frantic struggling it was a Wonder
how the cutter was not upset. As it was, it
swayed to and fro in a way that woke Armytage
from his heavy sleep. He knew that a
struggle was going on forward, but he could see
nothing. By his side sat Morton, laughing
maniacally at the dangerous rocking of the frail
craft.

Noticing that the tiller was securely fastened,
and that the cutter was sailing aright before
such faint wind as there was, Hew scrambled
forward — just in time to receive in his arms
the body of Brown, who had been wounded in
the breast by the knife plucked from his
belt by Sawyer at the moment when the
victory was nearly his. Almost before he had
time to recognise who it was whom he held, the
sailor lunged savagely forward with his knife,
as if determined to complete his work; but,

by a swift side blow with his fist, Armitage
sent him reeling backward against the shm
mast, whereupon he fell senseless to the bottom
of the boat.

It was some time before the mate came
round sufficiently to explain what had occurred.
Meanwhile his companion had staunched
the wound to the best of his ability — a wound
that, though not necessarily fatal, was likely
to speedily prove so under present circumstances.


You did well,' said Hew, when he had heard
all. ' But we must keep an eye on that
fellow. He has your knife, and no doubt will
take the first opportunity of doing you or both
of us some mischief. I think he was mad by
the sounds I heard before you tumbled into my
-arms.'

A dead silence now settled down upon
the cutter, save for the loud flapping of
the sail against the mast, there being no
longer sufficient wind to keep it from swaying
backward and forward with every motion of the
boat.

i2

Leith was either asleep, or watched without
sound or emotion. Sawyer was evidently
still unconscious, possibly dead ; Morton
was slumbering like a tired child, and not a
word passed between Armitage and the dying
mate.

Long before dawn the mist cleared away,
and the stars shone out with brilliant dia-moonlight.
The moon was in her last quarter,
and gave only a faint effulgence, but enough
to make all clear round the cutter for a mile or
so.

Sawyer moaned, stirred, and at last sat
up. Uncertain though the light was, it was
enough to show Armitage and his companion
that Morton was not the only madman aboard.
Brute passions, undisciplined emotion, blind
fury had driven the sailor out of such poor
mind as he had, and the man sat there ^vith
a sombre, horrible look in his eyes that boded
ill for the continuance of the present patched-hip
peace.

The night passed, the day broke. Higher
and higher the great orb mounted, his beams

growing ever fierier — harbingers of new pangs
of thirst. Hours passed in dull misery, and at
last noon came. The sun hung in mid-heaven
like a huge ball of intolerable fire. It was as
if a furnace flamed in the sky, burning all
the blue out of it, and leaving it a evan,
sickly, bleached-like white. Suddenly Sawyer
sprang up, wildly clutching the mast with
one hand, and pointing upwards with his right
arm.

It's hell we're sailing to !' he shouted, ' it's
hell ! It's closing in upon us, and yonder's the
mouth of it — flaming' and burning' for ever. It's
coming' nearer,' he shrieked — ' nearer, nearer !
My bones are melting, there's fire in my throat,
fire on my tongue, fire in my brain, fire in my
heart — fire everywhere !'

Then, exhausted by his vehemence, he sank
back, his eyes still wildly glaring, and this hands
convulsively clasping and unclasping.

The sun's heat, beating upon them, all unsheltered
as they were, became a torment
because of the additional cravings of thirst it
induced. The glare of the sea banded the

eyes, and sent up a suffocating damp breath.

Morton was leaning over the side, idly waving
his hands to and fro in the tepid water,
when suddenly he screamed and started back,
his face blanched with horror.

Hew mechanically looked over the side,
vaguely inferring that the poor fellow had been
terrified by some phantom of his own brain.
But close to the surface, or rather apparently
so, owing to the clearness of the water, lay a
long, bluish white shape which he at once with
a shudder recognised. The shark, one of the
largest of its kind, lay as motionless in the
depths as if it Avere an unwonted clouded in a
silent sky ; but in its gaze there was that look
of fiendish malignity, of insatiable cruelty, which
the eyes of no other living creature contain to a
like degree.

Armitage looked steadily down into these
cruel, watchful eyes till he felt that he too
would go mad if he continued his gaze. But
the huge fish seemed in no way perturbed by
his fixed look ; it only waited, inexorably patient.
What helped Armitage to break the fascination

of its eyes was a slight splashing and gurgling
which he heard to starboard. Looking rounds
he saw Sawyer leaning over the gunwale and
drinking with great gulps draughts of the maddening
salt water.

You'll kill yourself if you do that,' he cried
out ; then, noticing the sudden appearance —
like the instantaneous shifting of a shadow — of
the shark on the starboard side, he shouted
to the man to beware of what lay so near
him.

But already the poisonous draught had
wrought its effect, all the more speedily from
the fact that the unhappy man was already
mad.

Throwing back his head, Sawyer gave a
wild, maniacal laugh, and then stared fixedly
at the blue-white shadow, which had moved
a little nearer the surface than it had been
before.

Madness is infectious. All at once Morton,
who had been strangely quiet all day, burst
into aimless laughter — a weird, unnatural mirth
that was very horrible. A loud cry of hollow,

savage mockery came from Sawyer; and the
more the former laughed the more unnaturally
amused became the latter. Brown was sinking
fast, and did not even open his eyes at the fiendlike
revelry. Only Armitage and the man
whom he so loathed and hated were left to
witness the final throw in this game of chance
between madness and death.

Suddenly Sawyer gave a snarl like a wounded
wolf, and leaped right out into the smooth,
oily water. When he came to the surface
again, a black fin swiftly cleft the calm sea;
a shriek of agony thrilled in the ears of those
in the cutter, and for one brief moment a pair of
writhing arms waved frantically above the
surface.

All that remained was a little froth, and a
swiftly diffusing red stain. But this also soon
passed away.

CHAPTER III.

FACE TO FACE.

A FEW moments after Sawyer's terrible death,
there was no sign of the tragedy. The suu
"blazed more and more fiercely upon the breathless
sm-face of the sea ; there was the same long
monotonous heave, not perceptible to those onboard
the cutter, aimless at a distance ; the same
stainless blue, sheeted with intolerable glare;
the same weariness of unrelieved sea and sky.
Bat there were now only four men, where so lately
there had been seven, and of these foi* one
was fast sinking through the apathy of weakness
into the silence of death. But the long
bluish-white shadow had vanished, to Armytage's
unspeakable relief, who had felt the presence
of the shark as something horrible.

Morton had been awed by Sawyer's disappearance,
and now sat quiet, with his hollow
eyes fixed hopelessly in one direction far out
seawards. It was evident that Brown could
not live many hours longer, for not only was he
suffering from extreme weakness but from
internal haemorrhage. Leith, who had evidently
become convinced that Armitage would not
trouble himself to take revenge now that death
Alas so certain to work a slower torture than
relentless murderous hands could do, had turned
his back to the man he had caused to drink so
deeply of the waters of grief. He could not
bear the look in Armitage's eyes — a look of
hatred, scorn, unflinching determination, save
when they passed into one of bitter agony.
He sat facing the bow, his back to the madman,
to the dying mate, and to his enemy ; and, as he
looked vaguely and hopelessly across the monotonous
waste, he wondered if any help would
reach them in their dire extremity, and, if so,
what would happen thereafter.

If we should be picked up,' he thought, * or
should yet reach St. Paul's, that man will kill

me. I hope we don't sight the island, but come
across an outward-bound ship: I would at once
proclaim him mad, and secure the captain's protection.
But if we have to die here like rotten
sheep, why, I'll have my revenge after all — for
I'll take care you don't die, Hew Armitage, without
suffering further on account of your dear
Mona.'

The late afternoon of that day was almost
worse than the noontide. The whole sky was
like a furnace, and there was in it that curious
pulsation of heat which is occasionally to be seen
at sea. There was not the faintest breath of air,,
and the atmosphere was like that of a closed
oven.

Those on board the cutter lay back with
languid eyes, and panted with the suffocating
heat and with still more agonising thirst.
Armitage, who could now only weakly drag
himself along, managed to make some slight
shade with the sail, so as to afford a little relief
to the dying mate, who, in an undertone, kept
pleading pathetically for only a mouthful of
water.

Towards sundown, for which fervently Hew
looked Morton heard the moan for water, and
it at once seemed to stimulate his already-terrible
thirst. He was crawling to the side of
the boat to take a draught of sea water when
Armitage leaned forward and managed to pull
him backwards : * It will kill you,' he kept
repeating, till at last some glimmering of the
significance of the words dawned upon the unfortunate
man, and he obeyed as meekly as a
yoimg child.

The sun set with an aura of diffused misty
carmine, like a great bloodshot eye gleaming
fiercely from a pallid, wasted face. Just before
its lower rim touched the horizon, Brown opened
his eyes, keeping them fixed upon it with a
strange far-away gaze, but no longer moaned
for water.

Armitage shifted his gaze from his companion's
face and watched the ominous hues of the
setting sun. He saw that some change was
thereby foretold, but whether welcome rain
would come, or merely high wind, he knew not ;
but he felt anything would be better than another
day of such sweltering heat.

Lower and lower it sank, till it seemed as if it
had been filled by an unexpected wave, and had
so disappeared. When it had really gone Hew
turned and looked again at his companion. He
was still gazing fixedly at the point where the sun
had sunk, but it seemed to Hew as if the haze
which still lay along the sun-scorched sky had
come into Brown's eyes. But the glaze was no
reflection. The third mate was dead, and when
Hew sorrowfully realised this he put the man's
handkerchief over his face and prayed a few
words.

Some fine instinct was touched in the madman,
for, seeing Armitage doing these last
offices, he imagined that Brown must be in
great pain, so, crawling to his side, he took the
death-cold hand in his and kept stroking it
gently.

He is dead,' Hew said to him.

Yes,' answered Morton, but unknowing what
these words signified. ' He is dead ; but he will
soon be well again. When are we to get out
of this boat ? 1 am tired of it — tired of it — tired
ofit.^

'We will not be here long now,' Armitage
whispered, gravely. ' Be patient a little longer,
and then you will be at rest.*

He could only whisper, without feeling great
pain, for his throat had become so parched that
until sounds actually came he felt as if he must
perforce be dumb.

About an hour after sundown a slight breath
of air played round their heated faces, and they
welcomed it as men long imprisoned in underground
prisons welcome the light of day. It
was from an opposite quarter to that in which
the boat's bow was pointing, viz., from the
south ; and as it slowly increased Armitage put
the cutter about, and with great difficulty resisted
the small sail which he had partially
taken down on poor Brown's behalf.

AVhat a relief motion was after these long-hours
of hopeless stagnation. If this wind
would only last, if it would increase without
becoming over-strenuous, it might carry them
into more frequented tracks, and thus their
chance of being rescued, infinitely small at the
best, would be doubled.

With the change and with the south wind
came that phosphorescent condition of the
sea which had had such striking manifestation
on that night when the Fair Hope had
sailed so near the barren rocks of St. Paul's.

Far and wide gleamed broad patches of
violet and crimson light, or pale blue, or yellow,
or sickly green and vivid emerald. There was
a slight haze which made the stars dim, and the
moon, now in the last hours of her quarter,
would not rise till very late, and then only for a
brief time.

As the cutter glided slowly along, there was a
track of pale fire behind her, and beneath the
helm was a maze of innumerable tiny sparkles,
as if a myriad gems — diamonds, rubies, emeralds,
sapphires, and others unnameable, but
with all the changing hues of Sirius or Jupiter
were whirling airily in an indefinite veil
of thinnest gauze. It was as if the incalculable
millions of microscopic lives that there
flashed out their brief moments were the souls
of unbodied gems, spirits that had escaped
the doom of being frozen into eternal stoniness.

Or as if they were insects of variable fires,
lazily dancing in interminable movement ina
moonrise mist. It caught and charmed the
vagrant fancy of poor Morton, and he laughed
feebly in a kind of ghostly glee.

More and more frequent and more and more
vivid became the phosphorescent. The sea
seemed literally on fire, but not with flames of
pure red, rather with the illumination of beautiful
but noxious gases, the ghastly splendour of
putrescence.

Slowly the more brilliant patches of light
yielded to great masses of luminous yellowish
white, which gleamed and moved hither and
thither with most weird effect.

Suddenly the sail bellied inwards, and then
flapped loudly to and fro against the mast.

Is this another change of the wind,' muttered
Armitage, ' or has it simply suddenly collapsed ?
No,' he went on, speaking to himself as if to a
listener, ' it's coming now from the west, and it
will make rather a nasty jumble of the sea.'

The short jerky waves began to rise and
tumble all round the cutter, and almost in a

moment they grew large and threatening, the
wind having rapidly freshened and singing
along before it a troublesome under-swell.

But, instead of decreasing, the phosphorescence
became not only more luminous but also
more widespread than before. Not only were
great breadths glorying with pale but ardent
fires, but apparently the whole sea was one
gleaming mass.

Then with the changed wind, the cross seas,
and the brilliantly phosphorescent state of the
water, there happened a strange and horrible
sight.

For leagues and leagues the sea seemed to
have given up its dead. In all directions were
flying figures, wretched souls in torment waving
frantic arms ; some springing upward as if to
escape from some imminent horror, some hurling
themselves backward in wild despair, some
crawling on their hands and knees in abject
terror. It required no madness, no imagination
even, to realise the weird horror of the scene :
it was there, only too visible, too real.

Morton began laughing horribly, rising at last

VOL. 11. K

into fearful shrieks of excruciating fear or
maniacal fury. Armitage turned shudderingly
from the sight that so fascinated his gaze, and
it was with a strange feeling of relief that he
saw how affected — though so differently — both
Leith and Morton were. He was not mad after
all, then, he felt ; as he had feared a minute ago
when gazing at the frightful aspect of the
sea.

The waves rose, and still the phosphorescence
intensified and spread. The ocean became a
sea of molten metal wherein writhed and fled
and tossed agonised souls.

They were all round the boat now : gi-eat
figures consumed with flame yet never perishing,
with vivid eyes, hollow or deeply burning,
with shadowy arms stretched frantically towards
the cutter, striving to reach its shelter or mayhap
to drag it down.

Armitage felt as if he should ere long be mad,
if such horrors were to continue ; and for the first
time he looked at Leith with other feelings than
those of hatred, revenge, or aversion. How would
this man act, he wondered : would he retain his

steady apathetic indifference, or would his
imagination overpower his reason and render
him as mentally incapable as Morton ? Neither
the one nor the other. Leithknew well enough
that what he was looking on was a purely
natural if phenomenal occurrence, but he was
ghastly white and shaking with nervous terror
all the same. There was something so frightful
in these luminous seas and phantasmal waves —
this shadow of the sea of the damned, of which
he had read once long ago. Moreover, the
shrieks of Morton were appalling to listen to,
and then in Armitage's eyes there burned a
strange light, either from intense excitement,
from approaching death, or from madness.

Wilder and wilder gi-ew this dance of death
around them : they were in the midst of a
saturnalia of the drowned of all time, a gathering
together of those untimely perished, writhing
in endless woe and cursing God and the
mothers who bore them. Strange creatures of
the deep shot to and fro amidst the liquid fire,
each gleaming in its own ghastly aura of green
or blue or yellow : and among them Armitage

k2

saw or fancied he saw the long wan-blue shape
of the shark, shooting hither and thither like an
arroAv and leaving always behind it a track of
flame, or hanging poised like a cloud-demon in
the midst of a wrack of blood-red cloud.

Ever and again a wave splashed into the boat,
and up their clothes would run trailing fires ;
and on these occasions Morton would cower
against the seat, screaming all the while in
frantic terror : and for some minutes thereafter
all along the bottom of the cutter there could
be seen crawling in all directions innumerable
fiery spots, as if a plague of luminous insects
had fallen from the midnight skies.

A gust of wind caught the sail, and Armitage
had just time to bring the helm sharp round or
they would have been upset. The recoil caused
a charging wave to rise and dash over the boat.
At Armitage's instinctive cry, the two other
men looked up — but what they saw was not a
foam-crested wave but the most awful vision of
that awful night.

Springing right upon them was a great wave,
appearing as if shrouded in long garments of

white fire. Even while this apparition transfixed
their gaze, it swung right down upon
them and fell upon the dead body of the mate —
dissolving there in streams of liquid fire.

Morton burst but with a peal of shocking
laughter : threw back his face, which had
suddenly become almost black, and was
dead.

But the very horror of this last scene broke
the spell under which Armitage had lain in
thrall. He gathered together all his now feeble
strength, adjusted the sail, and allowed the boat
to rush swiftly forward before the Avind. He
thought Morton had fainted, but he soon discovered
the truth : and then all at once came
upon him the realisation of the fact that he and
his enemy were alone with each other upon the
wide ocean.

God has given him into my hands, that I
may see him perish before mine eyes,' he
thought : not dreaming, in the vanity of human
nature, that the way of Providence is not always
man's way.

Nor did he yet recognise the fact that, though

he was the stronger man of the taro, Leith was
wither and less likely to succumb to physical
prostration. In any case neither should dia
without the truth as to Mona being clear to
them both — so Armitage determined.

Meanwhile the phosphorescence had reached
its climax of illumination, and was rapidly passing
away. Within less than half-an-hour of the
death of Sawyer and Morton, it had wholly
disappeared, and it seemed to the two men
left alive in the cutter that the past hour or
two had been a hideous dream and nothing-more.


Greatly to their disappointment the wind
began to fall again, and at dawn it was wholly
gone. Both men had sunk into a stupor of
fatigue, from which Leith was the first to
awake.

Raising himself from the bottom of the boat,.
where he had been lying, he looked fixedly at
the recumbent figure of Armitage, as if doubtful
whether he were in the same state as Morton and
the third mate.

At last, convinced that Armitage was still

alive, he crept slowly towards the middle of
the boat — his eyes all the time fixed on the face
of his enemy. It was with the utmost difficulty
that he moved, so weak was he, far more so
than he had imagined : but when he ultimately
gained the waist of the boat and grasped the
object he sought, he seemed for the moment to
gain new vigour, and in his eyes there flashed
a light as of triumph. The object that he had
secured, and now clutched eagerly, was the
knife which had belonged to the third mate,
and which Sawyer had finally dropped before
he leaped overboard.

Whatever Leith meant to do, and he kept
crouching in the waist of the cutter and clutching
the long knife in his wasted but still nervous
hand, was definitely decided for him by an
abrupt movement on the part of the man he
was watching.

Almost simultaneously, Armitage awoke and
fixed his eyes on the face of Leith. He saw
the knife in the latter's hand, but was not
sure whether Leith had provided himself with it
for a murderous or merely a defensive purpose.

Raising himself by his stiff and almost benumbed
arms, he looked around him before
speaking. The sun had just risen, and the sea
was all blue and gold, but there was no sign of
wind, and therefore the certainty of another
day of sweltering heat. The sea was not yet
quite calm, but would be so ere long. Not a
sail was anywhere to be seen, not a shadowy
outline of the long-hoped-for island, not even
the delusive gleam of the white wing of an
albatross.

Then Hew Armitage looked round, and after
the long silence of these many terrible hours
since he had unwittingly rescued his enemy
from drowning after the collision of the two
ships, once more spoke, hoarsely and difficultly.

Charles Leith ! we two are alone on this
wild and hopeless sea. Death must come to us
both very shortly. There need no longer be
anything between us. Tell me, was Mona
among those saved from the Australasian ?'

Before he answered, Leith rose, and, supporting
his staggering weakness as best he could,
regained his former position in the bows.

There he now felt safe from his mortal foe, at
any rate, both because of the weapon in his
possession and of the distance that intervened,
a distance which his enemy could hardly traverse
quickly in his manifest prostration. When he
felt once again secure, he answered the
questioner.

So you do not believe what I told you on
the night of the collision ?'

No, for I traced you both, and the traces of
each converged in that accursed vessel — accursed
to me from having borne away from me
all that was dearest in life.'

A strange look shone in Leith's eyes, and
across his pallid attenuated face came that
treacherous evil smile which was so wont to
disfigure his finely-cut features.

Death shall not rob me of my revenge after
all,' he muttered, below his breath, ' and it will
be easier to die watching that man suffering the
tortures of the damned.'

Hew saw the moving lips, but heard no
sound.

Are you speaking ? I did not hear you.'

Yes, Hew Armitage, I was saying, or trying
say as well as this parched throat and mouth
can let words escape, that you were right
in supposing that Mona and I sailed in the
A australasia

How quickly the poison worked, he thought,
as he noticed a quiver pass over Hew's face.
It was a thrill of agony — irrepressible, acute
as when the spiritual nerve was first laid bare
to the lance of terrible reality.

In which of the boats was she after the ship
was deserted T

A pause followed, in which Leith looked at
the speaker with a searching gaze, as if calculating
what strength the latter could summon
at an emergency. At length he replied, slowly
articulating his words, as if each one of them
gave him exquisite pleasure.

Mona — do not wince. Hew Armitage ; she
was as much " Mona " to me as to you — Mona
was not in any of the boats.'

^Do you mean that she was dead before
the collision took place?' asked Hew, with
blanched, quivering lips.

*No, she was alive not only before but after
the collision

You do not dare to tell me that she was left
aboard that ship — that burning ship ! You
coward, you scoundrel, you villain — you do not
dare to tell me this.'

Yes, I do. And what's more,' the man went
on, tauntingly, and with a look of devilish
malignity in this face, ' Brown the mate here said
he was sure she was still in her cabin (she was
known as Mrs. Montgomerie, I may inform you)
and wanted to make sure, but I told him she
had been taken off in one of the other boats.'

As if electrified by a current of vital energy,
Armitage stood erect, the hollow eyes in his
deeply furrowed face gleaming with a terrible
light, and his hands convulsively twitching.

Leith already instinctively quailed at this unexpected
vigour, and cursed himself for being so
precipitate.

Then,' muttered Hew, hoarsely, ' there is
only one thing left for me to do ; and that is to
make sure that you, coward and villain beyond
the lowest criminal I have ever known or heard

of, should have no chance of working further
evil in a world Adhere you have already wrought
unspeakable sorrow and shame. Man, man,
were you fashioned in your mother's womb to
be a curse unto your fellows : did some fiend
enter your body in place of a human soul !
Yes, Charles Leith,' he went on, furiously,
^ your hour has come at last. I will strangle
you like a dog !'

As he spoke he took a stride forward, and at
the same moment Leith crept a little forward, so
as to be in a better position to use his long and
deadly weapon, and also for withstanding the
shock of Armitage's heavy body if the latter
should hurl himself recklessly upon him.

But the inscrutable and changeful hand of
fate again came between these two men
giving revenge, the most exquisite passion
to fallen humanity, once more to the
evil-doer, and meting out injustice to the just
man.

A little froth bubbled forth from Armitage's
mouth — his head fell forward — and he sank to
the bottom of the boat an inert mass.

Leith gave a cry of triumph, knowing
that now indeed he was victor. His enemy,
his deadly foe, had succumbed to a slight, but,
inter the circumstances, all potent, paralytic
stroke ; and, though he would regain consciousness
very shortly, it would only be to find himself
helpless for many hours — and before many
hours came would not a certain shadow fall and
darken to purple those livid lips and blanch into
ashy grey that wan white cheek ?

And yet, reflected Leith, it might not be
so after all. Armitage was a man of immense
physique, and had given way rather to overwhelming
emotion than to a more material
cause. What if he should be able to resume
the offensive, and this time perhaps gain the
victory ? But would he not thus lose some of
the sweetest fruits of revenge ? AVould it not be
better, seeing how helpless his foe was and must
surely inevitably remain, to agonise him with
words more torturing than the gradual thrust
of the knife ?

Yes, it would be better to wait. The tongue
could inflict infinitely worse torture than the

knife : and then when the former had done its
-worst, and Kfe was just abotit to ebb away, the
final thrust could be given by the latter.

It was not revenge alone that animated
Leith. His was a tigerish nature, delighting in
cruelty for cruelty's sake. To such a nature death
was an end to pleasure — nothing more. Hope
had nothing to look for ; Despair averted his
face as from an insignificant shadow. But
sweet indeed was this infliction of protracted
torture, doubly so in the case of this unconscious
man who had once lashed him with his
horse-whip, who had stinted in no way his
overmastering scorn or striven in no degree
to hide his deep loathing — sweet, indeed, to
torture this man by subtle means, worse than
the fabled instruments of the fabled fiends of
bell.

Slowly he crawled back on to the seat behind
the mast, leaning the rea gainst and watching the
recumbent figm-e of Armitage beside the two
corpses.

The noon-heat burned down as fiercely as it
had done the day before. The sea was one

great ablaze of molten metal, and seemed as if
it were slowly corrupting in the dreadful heat
and prolonged stagnation. Clotted foam drifted
past occasionally, and dead fish ; sometimes
putrid sea-weed, foul as decayed vegetation ina
stagnant ditch.

But in the early afternoon Leith noticed a
far-ois line, dark in colour, slowly creeping
nearer. He gave a sigh of relief, knowing this
Alas wind, and fervently he hoped that it might
not die away before it reached the cutter. But,
though of little impetus as yet, the faint breeze
was steady, and in due time approached, and
at last blew faintly across the boat. It was
like a tepid breath from a dying furnace, but it
was welcome indeed after the fiery stagnation
of the long and dreadful hours since sunrise.

Armitage had opened his eyes once or twice
but not with consciousness in them, and seeing
this his torturer had as yet refrained from
speaking.

Every five minutes or so the breeze increased
till at last it veered round more to the southwest
and blew with a delicious refreshment

that was almost like water to the parched
throats of the two living men in the cutter.
And it was ' Vater ' that Hew moaned feebly
for, as he felt the cooling \\dnd play round his
temples.

Water ! — You may die like a dog before you
get a taste of water,' hoarsely and brutally
laughed Leith.

His words and the relief of the wind gave a
faint measure of strength to Armitage, and he
managed with sore difficulty to raise himself a
little, and finally to move this body away from
the two corpses, so as to lean against the
stroke-seat. He had striven to rise, but found
it impossible. Yet he did not despair, far less
did he fear the traitorous foe who sat watchfully
such a short distance away from him.

Why did you not kill me, Charles Leith,
while I lay there unconscious : you have lost
your opportunity, and you will yet die by my
hand. Or, if this is not to be, I shall at any rate
see you die.'

*It was not worth my while to stick my
knife into you : though I may do so when I

see you are just about to give up the ghost.
I want to tell you a little more about Mona.
I'm surprised that such a loving husband as
yourself should not have recognised her voice
at the time the fire broke out on the Australasian.
That was her scream you heard just
before the flames burst out of the hull. She
had fainted '

Oh, my God!' moaned the wretched victim,
swear to me that this is not true, and I will die
forgiving you all the evil you have done to me
and mine !'

'What good would it do to swear such a
thing 'I Swearing cannot alter facts. Hew Armytage.
No, you need not struggle — you haven't
strength to get up. You must lie and listen
to whatever I have to say.'

A low moan came from his listener. Ah, this
was revenge indeed, the coward thought.
What agony there was in his enemy's eyes —
what dreadful agony in that unnatural expression
of woe !

Leith stopped awhile with weakness and
hoarseness, and at last with some difficulty re-vol.

II. L

sued. Armitage lay back with closed eyes,
suffering the tortures of the damned.

We had loved each other before she
ever saw you, and the reason she married
you was that she was angry at me for
having gone off* with her maid, who was,
after all, quite as nice, if not nicer, a girl
than Mona. But when I came back she forgave
me, of course. Women always have to forgive
men. If they don't, it does not make much
difference to the men, but it's death to any after
happiness of their own. No, Hew Armitage,
that meeting in the fir-wood was by no means
our first of recent years. That was in connection
with another matter : a little financial
transaction which Mona and I thought we could
arrange nicely between us.'

What was the matter with Armitage ? Was
he going to have a fit, or was he losing his
reason ? With one great effort, he raised himself
a little, and, looking straight at Leith,
ejaculated a few faint words.

'You have lied to me throughout. You
are a liar — a har — a liar ! What you have told

me is impossible. God helping me, I shall live

to prove it a lie ; ' but with these brave,

unflinching loyal words some mental chord
snapped, and Hew Armitage succumbed to the
fever that had already taken possession of him,
and now burned in his brain like fire.

So — I've driven you mad, or given you
brain-fever, have I ? Well, I'll make sure of
you while I can, now that I've won the last
toss and the game is in my hands,' — and,
muttering thus, Leith stooped and half-rose,
knife in hand.

Why did he not consummate his revenge'?
Was it remorse at the last moment, or did
he wish to gloat on his victim's sufferings to the
last? or did he find he had not the strength
to move ? What made his eyes start wildly in
their hollow sockets, and his parched lips feebly
shape some inarticulate words ?

For two hours past or more — long before
Armitage had recovered consciousness — he had
sat with his back to the bow of the cutter, gloating
on the worn face of his foe. He had not
seen that white object in the distance — that

l2

white object which was not an albatross, but the
sails of a ship. And now it Alas comparatively
close, and the tiny sail in the distance, like a
sea-bird's wing, had attracted the attention of
those on board.

But as yet Leith had seen nothing. He had
heard a sound which had caused him to start and
stare wildly, to mutter feebly some incoherent
words. Borne on the wind across the freshening
waves rang the crack and hissing shot of a
pistol. It was unmistakable — was no figment
of his imagination, no result of overstrained
nerves.

Looking round, he saw a great ship bearing
straight down upon the cutter, and on the forecastle
something fluttering. A sailor, in his
excitement, was wa^dng a white canvas bag in
the endeavour to ascertain if anyone was having
on board the castaway boat. Leith shook as
with ague.

The reaction from the certainty of death was
terrible ; it was too sudden. He felt chained to
his seat, though he Avould have given untold
wealth, if he had it, to have risen and shouted
long and loudly.

Suddenly he gave a convulsive start. Anni-take
had moaned, and this moan made Leith
remember that his enemy was still living.

There was time yet, he thought. And with
utmost labour he dragged himself towards the
feebly moaning, recumbent figure, and clutched
the knife with despairing energy. He brought
the weapon to the level of his ear, poised it a
moment, and then, as a film came over his eyes
and a noise into his ears, brought it down with
a dull thud, all unconscious of the fact that the
keen blade found a sheath in the wooden seat
against which his companion reclined.

CHAPTER IV.

GAINED AND LOST.

A BOAT had been lowered from the ship, and
had approached close to the cutter. Those
in it were much excited as to what they
might see. One of them had declared that
he had seen a man moving in the stern-sheets
; but as there was no sign from the
cutter as they drew near, no faint hail, no
waving hand, they doubted if there were any
persons in it at all, or, if so, if there were any
still alive. The first thing they saw when
they drew alongside was the figure of Armitage,
still alive, though a moisture like the chill dews
of death was upon his worn, suffering face.
They attempted to lift the unconscious and

feebly moaning body out of the cutter, but
the officer in command suddenly countermanded
his order, and said that they would tow the
boat alongside, as there would be less risk of
this unfortunate wretch dying in their arms.

This one's alive too, sir,' said one of the
men, as he turned back Leith's face and saw
that the seal of death was not yet imprinted
thereon.

A few minutes later the two boats were
alongside the ship, a great vessel of sixteen
hundred tons, and a cry of horror came from
those on the poop and along the bulwarks as
the cutter, with its ghastly freight, lay exposed
to view.

The two living men were hoisted on board
with the utmost gentleness, and at once carried
into the saloon, where fortunately there was a
spare cabin, with two berths.

What are we to do with the other, sir?' said
the officer of the boat to the captain.

You had better tie some shot to the feet and
sink it. I can't ask the men to do anything
more. Just see if there's anything that may

serve for identification in case these two others
die. What's that name on the stern V

The Australasian sir. There's a ship of
that name trades between Greenock and Melbourne,
and I hope it's not her that's come to
grief.'

I expect it is the same, for I know that the
vessel you refer to sailed about the same time
as the Fair Hope, which had a fortnight's start
of us from London, or rather the Australasian
must have got away a bit before the Fair Hope
left old Peabody's docks. She belonged to the
Ravines of Glasgow.'

Meanwhile there was much speculation and
excitement on board with regard to the rescued
castaways, and as to the fate of the vessel to
which they had belonged.

About an hour later, the doctor informed the
captain that one of the two men had regained
consciousness, and, though exceedingly weak,
gave promise of recovery with a little care and
judicious management as to food.

'And the other r

AVell, poor fellow, he's in a bad way. In

addition to extreme prostration, lie's in a brain-fever;
and it's very doubtful if he'll pull
through. Still, he is evidently a man of great
physique and soit constitution, and the Avell-
won saying is quite applicable here, that
while there is life there is hope." By-the-by, I
fancy there is no mistaking them for other than
gentlemen, so there can be no question of having
them taken to the second-cabins.'

When can I see the man who is conscious ?
Has he spoken to you yet V

He has said nothing, beyond asking whether
he were dreaming or not. But, after giving
him a little warm soup, with a touch of brandy
in it, he dropped off to sleep, and 1 would
strongly recommend that no questions be asked
till tomorrow morning.'

'Very good. Let me know when I can see
him.'

Before anyone came to him next morning,
Leith awoke. It was long before he could
gather what had happened, but at last he remembered
having dealt that treacherous and
murderous blow at his helpless foe, followed

by a confused recollection of having swooned,
and thereafter come to his senses on board a
ship.

A deep groan below him made the perspiration
of fear break out on his face. He shuddered,
and his tongue clove to his mouth, as for the
moment he imagined that the spirit of the man
he had betrayed and murdered had come back
through the gates of death to accuse him by its
terrible presence.

With extreme difficulty and no little pain he
managed to shove his head and shoulders
across the barrier of his bunk, and to look down
on the occupant of the under-berth. AA^ith a
shock of dread and horror he recognised Armytage.
He had not for a moment imagined that
the latter was not dead, and had only hoped
that the corpse was even now swinging to and fro
in the silent sea-depths. Yet here was this hated
and dreaded foe, not dead, though, indeed, to all
appearance, not far from death.

Long and earnestly Leith thought over all
the circumstances, and at last arrived at a definite
conclusion as to what explanations to give.

He was still turning the matter over and over
in his mind when the doctor entered.

He found his conscious patient wonderfully
recovered, and after telling the latter that his
only living companion of the cutter had also
been saved, and was hang in the bunk below
him, he went out to order some suitable breakfast.
After Leith had partaken of this, he expressed
his willingness to accede to the captain's
wish for an interrogatory interview. The latter
came into the cabin and shook hands with his
new guest, adding a few hearty and sympathetic
words.

Well, sir, I may tell you first that I am
Captain Steele, and that this ship is the Murray
one of the Australian vessels belonging to the
well-known Elliot line, and that she is on her
outward voyage from London to Brisbane.'

'How far are we now from Brisbane?' asked
Leith, with an eagerness he could not control.

In about a fortnight we may perhaps be
there, but it depends on the continuance of this
fine westerly breeze,' replied Captain Steele,
somewhat coldly, for he thought it strange the

man should have had no thought of his fellow-sufferer.


And now, sir, will you kindly inform me as
to the circumstances that have brought you and
your companion to this sad pass.'

I will tell you as briefly as I can. My name
is Earle — James Earle — and I was a saloon passenger
on board the Fah' Hope."

What !' interrupted the captain, in a tone
of amazement, ' did you say the Fair Hope ?
Do you mean the Fair Hope belonging to London,
and one of the Peabody's fleet — the same
that sailed from the Thames a fortnight before
we did?'

Yes, I do,' responded Leith, quietly, glad to
get this information, which was quite new to
him. He had resolved to make doubly sure, so
that, if any awkward search should be made at
the port of arrival for a Mr. John Charles, alias
Charles Leith, who had sailed in the Australasia,
he should not be liable to suspicion. ' Yes,
I do. We had a good passage out till after
we rounded the Cape, and then we had a
succession of gales. Finally, we were somewhere

in the neighbourhood of St. Paul's, but
had left the island behind us, when a dense sea-mist
came down, and shrouded even the bows
from the view of those on the poop.'

Then he went on to describe the collision
and the sufferings of the survivors in the open
boat, till sympathetic tears came into the eyes
of both Dr. Young and Captain Steele ; and
then he told of the duel between Brown and
Johnson, and how at last, driven frantic by
their agony of thirst. Sawyer, Morton, and
Armitage had drunk deeply of the tepid and
poisonous sea-water.

Armitage did not drink so soon as the other
two, but I forget how long after. I was too
weak to care much about what was going on.
Sawyer went raving mad and jumped overboard
into the very jaws of a shark. Morton
followed. Next day Brown died. I don't
know how much time elapsed thereafter. It may
have been one — it may have been three — it
may have been six days. Anyhow, Armitage
had also drunk of the sea-water, and had also,
as is always the case, lost all mental control.

This morning lie was raving wildly. For a
time he looked at me doubtfully, and then all
at once he began calling me by a name I did
not know, and accused me of I don't know
what all. I tried to pacify him by assuring
him ^vit\l my weak voice that my name was
Earle, and that I was not the person he
thought me. Hearing him mutter something
about the Australasian, I thought that perhaps
he had there had some quarrel concerning
the wife to whom he had referred, so I told
him again that I was James Earle of the Fair
Hope. From that moment he jumbled everything
up, and I shall be curious to know if the
hallucination will remain if he recover consciousness.'


Something in Leith's manner made the
captain glance swiftly at Dr. Young, but
the latter apparently entertained not even
the germ of any suspicion, and listened to
the narrative with unquestioning belief and
interest.

How long, doctor,' Leith went on, ' do you
think the poor fellow's mental weakness will

last ? My own impression is that he is hopelessly
mad ; but if he has brain-fever, as you
say, how long will it be before you would consider
him sane again V

'I cannot definitely say, sir, but I do not
expect that (granting he survives at all) he
will be able to speak or to be questioned
for at least a fortnight yet. When he does
come round, he must be kept absolutely unexcited.'


And you say, captain, that we may reach
Brisbane in a fortnight, or a little more f

'I did say so, Mr. Earle. You seem very
anxious to get there before Mr. Armitage gets
well again, if he ever does get well.'

Yes, I am anxious, though not of course for
that reason alone. All the same, I put it to
you, is it not natural that I should be unstrung
by all that has happened, and that I
should wish to avoid any more harassing
scenes. You have no idea of the agony of
fury that man wrought himself into while
accusing me, by a name that I did not know,
of crimes of which I was guiltless. And now,

captain, may I ask two favours? Firstly, if
it is at all practicable, could I have some other
berth than this, one to myself if possible ;
and, secondly, will you briefly explain my
story to the passengers, and announce to
them at the same time that I have suffered
far too much to wish to refer to the subject,
in the meantime, at any rate, and that I
will be indebted by their silence on the subject
during any conversation they hold with
me.'

To both requests — yes. But you must expect
a good deal of genuine sympathy, you
know.'

All right, so long as I am not pestered with
questions. And now I feel very tired, and will
sleep as long as I can.'

Very good, sir, and I will give directions fora
berth to be got ready for you in the opposite
cabin, where there happens to be only one
passenger.'

As the captain left the cabin he drew Dr.
Young aside, and remarked in a low voice
that he thought there was something a little

queer about this Mr. Earle's story and his
manner, adding,

However, if he has secrets he has a right
to hide them ; and, after all, it is nothing to me
what he may be. He was certainly taken aback
when I told him I had been scrutinising his
cutter through the glass. Was that swoon of
his a genuine one V

Well, I'm a little doubtful about it,' said Dr.
Young, hesitatingly.

I shall be curious to hear what the other
one — Armitage — has to say on the matter.
If he regains consciousness at all, be sure you
let me see him before he learns anything from
Mr. Earle, or indeed before he knows of the
presence on board this ship of the gentleman
at all.'

Meanwhile Leith, sleepy as he felt, fought
against the fatigue for a time, and mentally
made every provision he could think of for
possible questions. He knew that if the captain
want into particulars as to the name of the commander
of the Fahr Hope its destination, and soon,
he would have to trust to his audacity and

VOL. II. M

to good fortune ; for one thing, he already knew
that it had sailed from London, and this was
always something.

It was not till the following day that Leith
went on deck. He was still very weak, and
looked emaciated, and as if indeed only newly
snatched from the jaws of death ; so that his
appearance created quite a flutter among the
passengers on the poop.

Glad to see you on deck, Mr. Earle,' said the
captain, coming up to his guest, ' and, when you
go below again, perhaps you will be so good as
to step into my cabin and sign the statement
which I have written out in accordance with
what you told me.'

Leith did not look pleased, but, as he had no
option, he stiffly expressed his willingness to do
so at once.

When the document was about to be signed,
Captain Steele suddenly exclaimed,

By-the-by, was there at no time anyone on
the cutter of the name of Charles?'

The pen fell from Leith's hand — a rather fortunate
trick for his nerves to play him, for he was

thereby enabled to stoop and hide his sudden,
startled confusion.

*Are you not well, Mr. Earle ? You are
shaking as with a chill.'

Oh, it's only weakness. Let me see, what
Avere you asking 1 Oh, if there was at any time
anyone on the cutter of the name of Charles.
N-n-no,' answered Leith, reluctantly, but assuredly
— 'no, there was no such person.'

Did you hear anyone of that name referred
to by any of your companions in the cutter V

Not that I remember. But why do you
ask V

Because at the bottom of the cutter, and just
between you and your companion, one of my men
found a small pocket-book, containing, besides a
number of memoranda in cypher, a roll of notes,
and a draft on a bank in Melbourne for a certain
amount. There were two envelopes in the
flap of the pocket-book, one addressed to Mr.
Charles, and the other to Mr. Charles Leith, both
to the " Royal Hotel " at Perth. The draft was
made out in the name of John Charles. Mr.
Armitage is almost certain to be able to throw

M 2

some light on the matter, but in any case I will
take charge of the pocket-book, and leave it in
care of my company's agents at Brisbane, who
will communicate with the agents both in Melbourne
and Glasgow.'

Leith felt like a trapped rat. He grew sick
with superstitious dread, as he rapidly realised
all that had happened. Hoar the man he had so
shamefully treated was still living, and might at
any moment regain consciousness, and probably,
despite his assurances as to his enemy's insanity,
be able to convince the captain as to the true
state of affairs ; hoar his evilly-got hoard was lost
to him through his own over-cleverness ; and how
if he were not landed as a prisoner, he would do
so as a beggar. He could not trust himself to
say another word to Captain Steele, so turned
abruptly away when that personage had ceased
speaking.

Leith slept little that night, but lay thinking
over all contingencies. If Armitage should recover
consciousness before the ship reached port,
he must just try to brazen it out, taking, however,
the first available chance of escape. If, on

the other hand, the Array should reach her
destination before Armitage recovered his mental
balance, or if he should die, he would see if
it were not possible to extract the pocket-book
from the captain's cabin, and, if it should be night
when they got into harbour, swim ashore.

A fortnight passed without bringing anything
of material import to anyone on board the
Murray, save to Hew Armitage. He had nearly
succumbed to brain fever, but the skill of Dr.
Young had averted a fatal issue. On the evening
of the day that concluded the fortnight since
he and Leith were picked up, the doctor announced
to those interested that the fever was
conquered, that it had, of course, left the patient
very weak, both in mind and body, but that in
three days or so he would be able to answer a
few questions at any rate.

Half the night Leith paced the decks like a
restless animal. He knew they were close upon
land, but as yet there was no sign of it.

Fair and steady blew the wind all through the
night and all next day. About an hour or so
after noon land was sighted, in itself an uninviting

coastline, low and desolate-looking, but most
welcome to all on board. Somewhat sooner than
had been anticipated, and just about an hour
after twilight, the Murray swung at anchor in
Brisbane Roads.

There were very few on deck. Captain
Steele had had an arduous afternoon and
evening, and had just turned in to get a little
sleep, and on the poop the second mate, knowing
there was now no special necessity for
watchfulness, had fallen into a drowsy condition
that was not, though nearly, wholly
unconscious.

Suddenly he woke, thinking he heard a
faint splash. Going to both sides of the
ship, he leaned over the taffrail, but could see
nothing.

Davidson,' he cried, to one of the watch
whom he descried, and who had been in the same
drowsy condition as himself, ' Davidson, did you
hear anything?'

No, sir, can't say as I did, special. Thought
I heard a fish jumping, perhaps.'

Oh, I daresay it was a fish ;' and the second

mate resumed his som nol eut condition against
the mizen-mast.

If he had turned his head a little and opened
his eyes, he might have seen something like
a large seal swimming along in the track cast
on the water by a brilliant planet. It must
have been a seal, for no man, white or aborigine,
would be so foolish as to swim such a
distance through a sea known to be haunted by
sharks.

It was a happy awakening next morning onboard
the Murray, and no one in the saloon except
Hew Armitage was late for the early breakfast,
which would be their last meal on board.
No, by-the-by, there was one other absentee —
Charles Leith.

Where is Mr. Earle V asked some one when
breakfast was almost over, and in a few moments
a strange rumour spread not only among
the saloon passengers, but throughout the whole
ship.

As soon as Captain Steele heard of the
matter he paid no attention to the remarks of a
gentleman who was lamenting to him Leith's

evidently having fallen overboard and been
drowned ; instead, lie abruptly broke away, and,
entering his cabin, took the keys off the
clasp where he usually kept them, and opened
his safe.

The pocket-book and its contents were gone
conclusive proof that Mr. Earle had not fallen
overboard unintentionally.

CHAPTER V.

ESAU'S HERITAGE.

A WEEK subsequent to the arrival of the Murray
at Brisbane, Hew Armitage lay on a bed in the
Royal Southern Hospital. Dr. Young had
paid him frequent visits, but after Hew had
learned from him about ' Mr. Earle,' and his
account of the shipwreck, he became himself
very reticent, and would afford the doctor but
little information.

It was before the time when there was telegraphic
connection between the island-continent
and ocean-divided lands, otherwise Hew would
have had the bitter satisfaction of knowing
that his pursuit of Mona was at an end. On the
day when he left the hospital, a letter was
rapidly nearing Melbourne, a communication

from his old friend, Dr. Steele ; a letter, however,
that was destined to reach its destination too
late. He left the hospital for a neighbouring
hotel, where he had engaged rooms, and where
a necessary outfit was awaiting him. He was
greatly changed. Sorrow and disaster and
terrible mental and physical suffering had done
their work, and had turned him into a man old
far beyond his years.

From the detective he had engaged to trace
out Charles Leith, he learned that a person
answering his description had sailed for Sydney
-on the afternoon of the day following the arrival
of the Murray in Brisbane. Two days later the
Kangaroo, with ]Mr. Armitage on board, sailed up
the Bay of Sydney, that loveliest ocean-inlet in
the world, and Armitage found himself, within
a very brief time, in the streets of the vigorous
yoimg city.

But what first strongly attested his attention
was not the architecture of the houses, or the
people, or the many strange signs of a new
country, but a large, coarsely-printed newspaper
placard.

On this placard, among other items of news,
was printed in red — * Safety of another of the
boats of the Australasian.^ Hew's heart gave
a great throb as he read this announcement ;
he might after all be in time to intercept Leith
and Mona meeting.

The next moment he experienced a bitter
revulsion of feeling, for the placard was that of
a weekly paper at least eight days old.
Another ' of the boats, too ; might not Mona
and Leith be far away by this time'?

With all speed he drove to the office of the
agents of the owner to whom the Australasian
belonged, but there he could only get meagre
information in the matter of details. The
duplicate lists of passengers' names, &c., were
in the hands of the agents at Melbourne, to
which the vessel had been bound, and whither
most of those who had been brought to Sydney
had already departed overland or by coasting
steamer. ' But this newspaper account,' said the
agent, ' will tell you all I know.'

Hew took the paper and glanced hurriedly
through a long account of what had happened,

till he came to the descriptive hist of those who
had been rescued. Among the names he read
those of three ladies, only one of which, he
saw, could possibly aj^ply to Mona. This ran :
mrs. Montgomerie, aged twenty-seven, saloon
passenger, on her way out to rejoin her husband,'
and among the remarks appended to the list
Hew read that this lady was staying at the
^ Grand Hotel ' awaiting her husband's appearance,
and that she was in great distress about
her friend (name not given), who was onboard
one of the other boats, and who had
with him nearly all her money.

AVith utmost haste Armitage next drove to
the ' Grand Hotel.' There he learned that four
days ago a gentleman had called for Mrs.
Montgomerie, had paid the bill, and that these
Lad gone away without leaving any address.
The waiter's description of the lady was vague,
but to Hew it seemed in every way applicable
to Mona.

He felt convinced that this Mrs. Montgomerie
was indeed his wife, and that it was Leith who
had rejoined her. All probabilities being to the

contrary did not disabuse him of this conviction,
and he determined to lose no time in
having them traced.

But in case letters had already arrived from
home he went at once to the post-ofSce.

'No,' the clerk told lira, 'no letters have
come from England for about a fortnight.
We're expecting a mail in tomorrow or next
day at furthest. What name, sir, in case there's
anything by the last mail. Armitage? Yes,
here's one for Hew Armitage : is that you ? Ita
Sydney letter.'

Yes, I am Hew Armitage ;' and, taking the
letter, Hew went over to one of the telegraph
desks and opened the unexpected note. ' Good
Gcd I' he exclaimed, turning deadly faint and
white ; ' it is Mona's handwriting.'

A mist swam before his eyes , and he trembled
like an aspen-leaf. At last, by a strenuous
effort of will, he opened the envelope, the
thought flashing through his mind that perhaps
Mona had written to him for succour, in the
sure hope that he would follow.

The note consisted of only a few lines :

I am no longer your wife. Why do you
follow me ! I know you too well to know that
you would kill a woman, and if you killed
Charles Leith it would do you no good, for I
would never return to you, even though you
should forgive me and pray me to come back.
By the time this reaches you we will be far
from here. C. L. has told me of your having
followed us, and of all that happened. Farewell,
and for ever.

mona.'

Instead of succumbing to this horrible collapse
of his hopes in his wife, Armitage felt
braced to renewed effort. He felt thankful that
she was at least alive, for he knew that sooner
or later he would meet with her ; and his search
would be easier in this comparatively sparsely
populated country, than in one like Scotland or
England.

But even now his faith in Mona did not
waver.

That scoundrel has magnetised her, poor
soul, and I only trust that his mesmeric power

may have deadened her sensibilities as well —
otherwise her mental sufferings must be sufficient
to drive her mad. She has written this at his
irresistible dictation.'

Next day Hew got reliable information as to
a man answering Leith's description having
been seen at a rough inn in what was then
known as the Melbourne Road, and that he had
been overheard asking particulars of the route
to Wagga-Wagga, a place where at that time
was congregated a large number of gold-diggers.
No lady had been seen with Leith, if
Leith it was, but, as he was in the bar, it was as
likely as not the lady was upstairs. Before
dusk Armitage had purchased a strong and fleet
horse, revolvers, knife, and all the paraphernalia
necessary for one about to enter on a long chase
by far the greater part of which was certain
to lie away from frequented routes — through the
bush or across the plains. A thorough horseman,
he felt in better spirits at the mere anticipation
of this means of carrying on the
pursuit.

In the early morning, at least an hour before

sunrise, Hew rode away from Sydney, his way
for the first hundred miles or so clearly mapped
out in his mind.

Just as he left the last suburban house behind
him, he passed the mail-coach from Albury on
the Murray, bearing to the capital the letters
which had reached the border-town from Melbourne.
Among these letters was one addressed
to Hew Armitage in Dr. Steele's handwriting,
and bearing the post-mark of Dundee.

In ignorance of this repeated mischance of
fate, he rode on, not even knowing that the
coach contained the Victorian mail.

He turned as he obtained the summit of a
small rising, and looked back on the lovely
scene he was leaving. Immediately beneath
him lay the rich lands of Parramatta ; beyond,
the town of Sydney ; and, in the background,
the lovely bay with its innumerable islands and
opalescent waters. The sun had just risen, and
had made the whole sea gleam in suffused,
golden light, rendering especially beautiful the
rugged peaks of the Blue Mountains, which rose
up westward.

Everything was new and beautiful to him.
Most of all the ardent summer-morning skies,
purple-blue, and the deep ultramarine of the
mountains — a blue seen in no other country
than Australia. The trees were different, the
birds, insects, flowers, and there was an
excess of life to anything Hew had known at
home.

What a tumult there was ! Hundreds of parrakeets
chattered on the boughs of the sombre
gum-trees, brilliant lories dashed to and fro
between the branches, innumerable parrots
screamed and fluttered as if the sun had not risen
before, and it was necessary to draw the attention
of every living thing thereto. Here and
there a late-flowering wattle gave out its exquisite
scent, and from a yellow spray rang the
matins of the magpie, that sweetest of Australian
song-birds. From a huge, stringy-bark,
rising to a height of about a hundred and
twenty feet, came the hoarse, gurgling laughter
of the laughing-jackass ; and, from further
within the forest, or the bush as it is invariably
called, thrilled upon the air the high, clear note

VOL. II. N

of the whip-bird, ending with the abrupt crack
which gives the bird its name. In two or
three directions Armitage thought he heard
tree-fellers at their work, but the noise was
caused by giant-kingfishers, which in Australia
take the place of wood-peckers. As he penetrated
further and further into what was then a
great solitude, relieved only by a few wayside
inns, or a stray settlement of Lilliputian proportions,
he sav much that interested him in spite
of his intense abstraction, his persistent brooding
on Mona and Leith.

Towards ten o'clock the blue of the sky
seemed more like molten copper. It was early
in January, and the fierce Austral summer was
at its height. The forest had become still as
death, and Armitage felt faint and sick with
fatigue. He had ridden many miles along the
track, and had seen no sign of human habitation,
or even human being, and he began to
fear that he had undertaken the pursuit before
his strength was adequate. Not being certain
as to where he was, and seeing nothing but the
interminable bush around him, he did the wisest

thing he could have done. A great clump of
acacias threw a deep shadow across the ground,
and into this he led his horse, fastened it
securely and then lay down himself and soon
fell fast asleep.

Hours afterwards he was awakened by the
screaming of the cockatoos overhead, and looking
up saw that the sun must be far down, because
a semi-twilight already dwelt between the
sombre gums.

Refreshed by his sleep, he was just about to
remount when he heard behind him the sound of
a galloping horse. A few minutes later a man
rode up, but halted at the sign made by
Armitage.

It was in the days of bushrangers, and the
man evidently did not feel at all sure about
this dismounted gentleman until, by his question,
he saw that the latter was veritably a
stranger.

The nearest place where you can put up for
the night? Well, the nearest place you can
put up — and it's nuthin' more nor putting' up,
I can tell you — is " Pilgrim Inn," some distance

n2

across the Nepean. I'm just a-thunderin' on
there myself, as I'm bound to be at Mount
Victoria before noon tomorrow, and old
Bess here must have a rest afore she trundles
ahead again. Ef you're coming' on there you'd
better hung up, for there's precious little sleeping
space at the " Pilgrim," and, if you're new
from the old country, I don't expect you'll
relish sleeping out.'

Armitage joined his new acquaintance, and,
during their ride through the rapidly darkening
twilight, learned much useful information as to
his routes and other matters. In addition, he
heard that his companion was a stock-rider
named Morgan, bearing an important message
from his employer, whom he had accompanied
on business to Sydney.

Some explanations followed, and it was at
last agreed that the two men should keep
company the length of Bathurst, and, if
Armitage saw any reason to go south, then
to Wrong.

An hour after sundown they reached * Pilgrim
Inn,' a small establishment that afforded

much better food and shelter to ^ beast ' than toman.'
Before seeking rest, Armitage made
inquiries as to the persons who had recently
passed that way. Only two or three had put
up for the night, but the man recollected that
about ten days before a party of five men and
two women had passed in the early morning on
their way to Bathurst.

The reason I remember it is not for the
custom they brought me — blast them ! — for
only one of them stopped long enough to have
a snack of "real old." A pale chap he wor,
and onkimmon like Jack Derby, the bushranger,
who was hanged eight months ago,
only, that, though poor Jack wasn't any handsomer,
he hadn't such a devilish nasty smile as
this gentleman I'm meaning' had. No, my
reason for remembering' of them special is that I
heard one on them say something' about what a
change all this was to knocking' about in an
open boat at sea, and from this I inferred
as how they were parties from that there
Australasian as was wrecked some time ago, and
which I was reading' about in the Sydney Times,'

Was the gentleman riding with a lady V

No, not that I am aware on. The ladies and
one of the men, an old chap, wor in a waggon,
and the other men wor mounted. The one you
mean was riding by himself.'

Though there was no inference as to Mona
to be deduced from what the landlord of the
Pilgrim ' said, Hew felt assured that she must
have been one of the two women, for he had
not the faintest doubt as to the personality of
Leith. He had been somewhat troubled all
day by Mona's letter ; every time he looked at
it it had seemed less like her handwriting, yet
there could be no doubt as to its exact resemblance
to the latter. But now he felt assured
that she was no great distance away : perhaps
tomorrow even he might come across them at
Bathurst.

Considerably before noon next day Armitage
found himself at Bathurst. He went about
among the tents, shanties, and rude log-built
houses, but neither saw any face he recognised
nor gained the faintest clue as to either Mona
or Leith,

Wearied out, he was just about to return to
the 'Good Fortune,' when, as he was passing a
shanty before Which three or four men were
drinking, he overheard certain words which
made him stop and listen intently.

By Jove, she sang like a angel, say I, and
I would like to see the fool as will contradict
me.'

Right you are, Jake ! I 'card as how she's
new to them parts. Came to Sydney from
Melbourne, I 'card Tom Vermont saying ; anyhow,
she's along o' a chap as is said to have
been one o' them as was in the Australasian,
He hasn't been long a-comfortin' himself — ha, ha I'

It's wrong ye are, Pete,' cried another, with
a strong Hibernian accent ; ' I knows for a fact
that she corned out with him in the same
boat. Dick Kennedy, a man I knows well,
was wan o' those picked up and brought to
Sydney, and I ^w^or in his company at the
Blue Blazes " the night before the^tAvo o' them
hooked it after that little pistol-worry, when
Hugh Flannigan was kilt. Dick recognised
both.'

Something suddenly diverted their conversation
into another channel, so after a moment's
hesitation Hew went np to the man who had
last spoken and asked to have a word with him
in private.

'Whatdiv ye want f asked the man, suspiciously,
his hand at the same time suggestively
finding its way to his belt.

I am looking for some one, and I think you
can help me.'

Oh, ye are, are ye ? Well, it's sorry I am
that I haven't seen him for some time past.
It's me impression that he has just sailed for the
ould country in his private yacht.'

A burst of rude laughter greeted this sally,
but Armitage controlled himself, and added
quietly,

'Well, you might help a man to find his mate.
The hawks are after him, and I msh to give
him warning if I can.'

Oh, that's it, is it. Begorr, this is a difiirint
thing entirely,' and the speaker rose with
alacrity and walked away a short distance with
Hew.

My man, you will do me a service if you can
put me on the track of the woman who was
singing at the "Blue Blazes." '

'Look here, now, ye would me ye wanted to
find your mate — an' now it's a woman ye're
after. Oh, I see's — it is yer mate ye're after ! I
suppose she's hooked it with the fellow with
the smile that wouldn't disgrace Ould Nickel'

Armitage saw that he had nearly betrayed
himself, so he asked at once if his informant
could not tell him where the man he had referred
to, Dick Kennedy, was to be found.

'It's Dick ye want now, is it? Well, as I
guess Dick can look after himself party well,
I'll let you know. He's joined a party of three
and gone on to Bulldog Creek, about twenty
miles south-west o' Bathurst. The " Bulldog's '
party well played out by this time, I'm
thinking', but Dick an' his friends lost every
brass farthing' they had in the hells hereaway,
an' there's alius a chance at digging like the
Bulldog.'

'Excuse me having a drink along with you,'
said Armitage; 'but I'm in a hurry. Take

this, please, and you needn't say anything
about my having made these inquiries;' and,
leaving two sovereigns in the man's hands, he
walked rapidly away till he reached the ' Good
Fortune.' Early next morning he rode away
from Bathurst in the direction of Bulldog
Creek, having first left a message for his
stock-driver friend, Morgan, that he might not
be able to return to Bathurst, but that, if he
did so, it would probably be within the next
two days.

When he reached Bulldog Creek he found
hardly anyone there though there was at the
time a floating population of some three or four
hundred. An old man informed him that the
men would not be back till sundown, as the
diggings were not here, but up in the Dingo and
Wattle gullies in the quartz hills, some two or
three miles away. He knew nothing of anyone
called Kennedy, and advised Hew not to
prosecute his search till night, when all the
members of the camp were sure to be back.
He had expected to have much trouble in finding
the man, but it had fortunately occurred to

him to ask if anything was known of a man
who had been among those who had been on
the ill-fated Australasian. Early in the evening
and Bulldog Creek was now all alive with
gleaming fires, hoarse voices, men passing to
and fro, and all the tumult of a gathering of
reckless spirits — he encountered a man who
was able to direct him to the object of his
search.

When Armitage spoke to Kennedy, the latter
had the same startled look and made the same
suggestive gesture as had done Hew's informant
at Bathurst.

Are you Dick Kennedy V

Perhaps I am and perhaps I'm not. Who
the dickens may you be V

My name is Armitage, and I was told of you
by a friend of yours at Bathurst, Mike O'Donnell.
You can give me some useful information, and
your friend seemed to think you would be
willing to do so.'

Depends on what the information is. Anyhow,
I don't give information — important information
— for nothing.'

I will tell you what I want to know, and
yon can ask me what you want therefor

If it's nothing personal, or about any particular
friend of mine, I'll tell you anything I
can for five " quid." '

Agreed. And now tell me, first, were you a
passenger on board the Australasian T

I was a seaman aboard her.'

Were there any ladies in the saloon V

Yes, there wor three. Two middle-aged,
and one young and remarkably pretty. She
called herself Mrs. Montgomerie.*

Was she married ? Had she her husband onboard
r

Well, I guess she were married. She gave
it out as that she were a-going out to repine her
husband in Australia. But them as wasn't blind
saw something else going' on. I was often at the
helm o' nights, and saw more perhaps nor anyone.'


What do you refer to f

There was a passenger whose cabin, I believe,
was next door to hers. We had been close two
months at sea afore I noticed anything myself

but one night I remember saying to myself
that if we did not get to port soon Montgomerie
would have a bad chance, if any Montgomerie
there was. He had his arms round her, and
was a-kissing her like anything. After that I
saw her crying' sometimes, but she always dried
up when Mr. Charles came beside her. 1 never
saw two people more infatuated. One day she
astonished them all by giving out that Mr.
Charles was her brother, and that they had been
parted for many years ; but this old game didn't
go down at all. Fond as she was of him,
however,' Kennedy went on, ' there was a
good spice of fear in it. I've seen her turn
pale and tremble when Mr. Charles Avould
appear at the other end of the poop walking
towards her. And, lately, I saw that she was
under his thumb completely. I guess she
wishes she hadn't left Montgomerie in the
lurch.'

Well, what next r

Well, we reached Sydney, and 1 'card afterwards
(for I may tell you private that I took
quick measures to get out of Sydney, for reasons

of my own) that she waited a bit for her
husband to turn up, but before that event a
gentleman called for her, and the two left at
once, and without giving any address. 1 never
saw her again till a short time ago at Bathurst.
Before that, however, I may tell you that Jim
Maitland, an old chum of mine when I was
last in this country, told me about the rare
flying at cards that a fellow had got at
Simon's hell, that he had been cleared out
three nights in succession, and that he was
gambling' away the money not yet earned by his
his wife or mistress, the " Star of the South," as
she was called. Well, one night I went to a
place kept by a man called Flannigan. Our
friend Mike O'Donnell was with me. To my
astonishment, I spotted in the " Star of the
South " no other than Mrs. Montgomerie, and
when, later on, a shindy began, I saw the man
who shot Flannigan, and, if 1 was Summered
at seeing the lady, you may imagine I waft
much more so at seeing Mr. Charles, for it was
he and none other. When Mike joined in the
fight also I thought it time to have a shy

myself, but just then I saw Mr. Charles whip
his arm round Mrs. Montgomerie and half-carry
her out. I followed them, and saw them goto
the '' Black Swan." They got horses there —
their own, I could see — and before the news
of Flannigan's death got to the police they
were out across the plains, and pretty safe, I
reckon.'

Have you no idea where they went to V

I don't know, but I've a shrewd guess they
would make for Wagga-Wagga, and after
they've made that too hot for them, unless
Mister has a run of luck, I expect they'll cross
the Murray somewhere and make for Melbourne
or Ballarat, more likely the latter. He's not the
man to go in for much hand-work, or I wouldn't
wonder but he'd stop at Spring Creek diggings,
near the Belongs, where there's been a run
lately.'

Armitage could get nothing more from his
informant, and, having left him, wandered about
awhile buried in deep thought.

The seaman's story was probably true, but
true or false it afforded no clue to the direction
in which the fugitives had gone.

'The man is probably right, however,' he
muttered. 'Leith is not the man to take to
gold-digging except as a last resource, and
with exceptional chances of success. Wagga-
Wagga is the nearest place south where he
would meet with a large number of men, and
there, wolf as he is, he is sure to be found.
I will follow them there, and will not be so very
long after them, even allowing for delay in
being guided by Morgan by a rather round-about
route.'

By dawn he was awake and in the saddle,
and, in good time, he left the hill-range well
behind, and saw Bathurst gleaming in the sunlight
before him.

At the ' Good Fortune ' he found a message
from Morgan, to say that he was going to ride
southward that evening, and telling Armitage
where to find him. Hew walked round to
the shanty mentioned in the note, and found
Morgan calmly having his siesta beside his
dead brother.

'We must all go some time,' he said, 'and
poor Bill here has hooked it a little earlier than

usual. I'm having a rest and a smoke before
farthing him ; and I'll then have another snooze,
for we've a good many hours' ride before us,
and it's getting blazing hotter every day, so we
won't be up to much a couple of hours or so
after sunrise.'

That night two mounted horsemen swept
across the silent plains, silent save for the howl
of the dingo or the hoarse scream of the night-raven.
Their shadows moved along like great
dusky wings, and so steady, so rhythmical was
the motion of the horsemen and steeds, that it
was as if it were in harmony with the stars
in their courses as these gleamed and pulsated
like living fires in the purple-blue vault of
heaven.

VOL. 11.

CHAPTER VI.

NEARER AND NEARER.

A WEEK had elapsed since Hew Armitage left
Bathurst, and as far as he could see he was no
nearer the end of his long chase.

Across rugged mountains, by difficult passes,
along desolate plains, over great ranges covered
with sassafras and gigantic eucalypti, along
sweeping water-courses marked by the sinuous
funeral procession of lofty blue-gums, through
monotonous leagues of forests of mournful
stringy-bark and white gum, he had journeyed
first with Morgan, the stock-rider, and
then by himself. He had seen day after day
the unclouded sun rise above the hill-range
or long, level plain ; he had felt it burn with
fiery force through the early day ; he had slept.

while his horse stood by panting with heat,
under what shade he could get, and had arisen
only when the sky had lost its look of glowing
copper and had taken on once more its intense
ultramarine. At night, as he rode across the
plains, he heard the howling of the wild dogs
as they scoured afar off, or sent flying startled
in all directions stray kangaroos, which leaped
across the moonlit wastes like ghosts of strange
creatures of pre Adamite times.

The last information Armitage had received
was from a Government surveyor who had
come from Deniliquin across the Murrumbidgee
and thence north-eastward till the Norrabucca
river was reached, fifty miles beyond the
source of which was the headquarters of the
friend whom he was going to visit. The
information was to the effect that a woman
answering Armitage's description was singing
at Deniliguin the night before he had left.
She was known as Miss St. John, and she was
said to be living with Mr. Turner of Billing,
at that wealthy squatter's cottage in the small
town.

o2

It was some charity affair she sang at. I
was struck by her looks, and asked some one
how Tm-ner had got hold of her. I was told —
but whether with truth or not I can't, of course,
say — that she was a Mrs. Montgomerie, and had
been seduced on her way out from England to
join her husband, who's said to have a place
near Lake Tyrrel, by a fellow who deserted her
somewhere, and left the poor creature to starve
or do what she liked. Turner found her somewhere,
and took pity on her, as he said ; but
my informant told me he knew a little of Montgomerie,
and that he believed that he was on
his wife's track. Thomson — my friend — said
something about the seducer being at Wagga-
AVagga, and gambling furiously at the numerous
hells there. Montgomerie is believed to
have gone therein search of him, as soon as he
learned the truth.'

Armitage had felt hopelessly puzzled at the
complicated maze into which circumstances had
drifted. This could not be Mona, this woman
who changed her fortunes continuously, who
sang everywhere. As long as she and Leith

were known to be together he had felt assured
it must be Mona, but there could be no question
of mesmerism in her living as the mistress
of another;: man.

Perhaps after all,' he thought, ' there has
been a misunderstanding somewhere, and this
woman at Deniliquin and the " Star of the
South " are not the same. But, as Leith will be
easily found at Wagga-Wagga, I will risk going
to Deniliquin first.'

On leaving Morgan, he meant to have made
his way straight to Wagga-Wagga, but on
account of the surveyor's information he altered
his determination, and, having received lucid
directions as to his course from the last informant,
he had proceeded south-westward from
Yanack Walk.

Two or three hours after surmise he reached
the welcome shade of the bush, which swelled
southward and 'south-eastward in wave-like
ranges. Under a clump of acacias he slept for
some hours, and at sundown was in the saddle
again.

The nights were so brilliant with the splendour

of the full moon that it was as easy to see
even at full gallop as during the day — indeed,
easier, owing to the fiery glare of the sun.

But no such rapid progress could be made by
a mounted man through the bush as across the
plains, and it was not till within an hour of
dawn that Armitage saw before him the broad
flood of the MuiTumbidgee, the ' beautiful
river ' of the aborigines. Despite all his precautions
and frequent consultation of his compass,
he had kept too much to the westward,
and now found himself confronted by shallow
broads and spongy swamps, extending, apparently,
for miles up and down both sides of the
river. Ere he had fully raised this fact his
horse nearly threw him, as its foreleg plunged
into the edge of the morass, sending up a squirt
of quagmire water, tepid and foul.

A cry rang out from close at hand, and from
one of the reed-covered lagoons rose a patriarchal
black swan, followed by a large flock of
his sooty kind. These wheeled about in the
twilight air, and at 'last settled down on a distant
bank, near which grew a clump of graceful

swamp-oaks — trees something between a spruce
and a Scotch fir, and never seen fm-ther south
than the Murrumbidgee.

Riding eastward for an horn or so, Hew at
last descried what the surveyor had told him
to make for. This was the junction with the
beautiful river ' of the tributary stream known
as Yanko Creek. Despite the time of year, it
was with difficulty that the Murrumbidgee was
forded, but at last he left New South Vales behind,
and found himself in the great * squatting '
province of Riverina. Then he could hardly
mistake his route, so long as he kept the winding
Yanko Creek frequently in sight. At noon
he endeavoured to sleep again, but the mosquitoes
proved too venomously troublesome. At
sundown he was glad to be in the saddle again,
and to hear the welcome clamour of the cockatoos,
lories, parrots, laughing-jackass, and
other forest denizens. By the following evening
he had crossed the Bilhbong at its junction
with Yanko Creek, and had traversed the intervening
flats between it and Edward River,
and in the semi-obscure darkness he saw the

few lights of the then mere village-town of
Deniliquin.

Both man and horse were exhausted by their
long effort, and the former's small stock of
tinned provision was quite finished. At a nide
inn, bearing the sign 'The Riverina Hotel,'
Armitage found he could have a bed, and
stabling for his horse.

The great strain he had been under since
leaving Sydney was in itself severe, but coming
as it did upon a man not yet quite recovered
from a dangerous illness and terrible previous
prostration, it was strange that he did not
suffer a complete break-down. Fortunately, in
addition to his powerful physique. Nature proved
the best physician. She gave him sleep for
eighteen hours at a stretch, and from this long
slumber he awoke feeling refreshed and strong.

It was dusk when he went out at the door of
the ' Riverina Hotel.'

The landlord was sitting on the bench in
front, smoking gloomily, as is the wont of upcountry
inn-keepers.

Can you tell me if there is a lady in Denis

at present called " The Star of the
South "f

The man withdrew his pipe, looked fixedly at
the speaker, then became absorbed in contemplation
of his right foot, at the centre of which
he ultimately ejected with great precision a
squirt of saliva.

Wha-a-at?' he drawled.

The question was repeated, but was met with
a negative.

Has there been no one singing here lately V
A lady — a — a — friend of Mr. Turner of Billing?'


Look here, you, what's yom' name V demanded
the inn-keeper, with sudden energy and an
appearance of interest. ' Armitage, you say —
blowed if I didn't think you were Montgomerie.
She's said to be the wife of Montgomerie, up
Paragon way — came out from England to join
him, but went off with another chap she met onboard.'


Where is she staying ? I want to see her
about something important. I am a friend of
hers.'

'H'm, ye are, are ye? Well, Mr. What's-your-name,
you'll find the lady at Rosebank
Cottage, the last house on the Echuca Road.
But you'd better knock before going in ; for
if Turner's there he's just the man to be careless
about his revolver, and let it go off accidental-like.'


Armitage nodded acknowledgment, and
walked away in the direction indicated.

Fortune favoured him, for the woman
who opened the door said that her mistress was
in.

Tell her that a gentleman is anxious to see
her for a moment or two.'

And who may you be, pray 1 No offence, sir,
but it's Mrs. Turner's orders that no one is to be
admitted unless she is willing.'

Armitage hesitated a moment, and then said,
quietly,

My name is Hew.'

After some discussion, which he faintly heard,
the servant returned and told him to walk
in.

His temples throbbed, and there was a

wishing sound in his ears and a mist before
Lis eyes as he passed into a small, low
room, at the end of which stood a tall female
figure.

Mona !' he cried, passionately.

Then, hearing no response, he looked
steadily till the mist cleared away from his
eyes.

He beheld a woman looking at him with a
half-startled, half-astonished air. Tall as Mona,
dark as she was, and with the same exquisitely
delicate pallor of face, yet to Armitage infinitely
removed from the woman he had loved, and still
loved with all his soul.

What — what is this V he muttered, hoarsely,
gazing with bewildered eyes.

< I think it is I who have a right to ask that
question. I do not know you— have never even
seen you, so far as I am aware. Pray explain
your intrusion.'

I do not understand. You are not Mona.'

*I see. You mistake me for some one
you know. Am I very like the woman you are
seeking V

Yes — yes — you are like ; but it is not that.
Forgive me, but I am. distracted with long sorrow
and hopeless confusion now. It is no idle
curiosity, it is a matter of life and death that
makes me ask you if you will answer me some
questions, which I would otherwise have no
right to ask. Will you help me, for I am in
truth in dire need of help V

Mrs. Montgomerie, or, as she was at present
called, Mrs. Turner, saw how thoroughly in
earnest her interlocutor was; and whether it
was that she feared what this terribly agitated
man might do, or what might happen if she did
not get him out of the house before Mr. Turner
came in, as he might at any moment, or that her
womanly heart was turned to pity, at any rate
she bowed her head in acquiescence.

Were you — were you — the Mrs. Montgomery
who came out to this country in the Australasian
V

The woman flushed deeply, but answered in
the affirmative.

Were there any other ladies on board with
whom Charles Leith was intimate V

He must be mad, this man,' she thought.
What does he mean, and who is Charles
Leith ? — I do not understand yon,' she said.

There was a man on board who loved yon,
was there not — a man called Charles?'

How do you know that ? What ! my shame
has indeed become public property if every
stranger knows it !'

Charles and Charles Leith are one and the
same. Was there any woman on board in the
least degree resembling you V

No, no one. Why do you ask V

Because the accursed villain seduced my
wife, and I have followed him from Scotland,
and suffered dreadful agony of mind and body
during my long pursuit. We were in the same
boat after the collision of the two ships, for the
cutter of the Australasian picked me up. When
at the point of death, he tortured me by telling
me of the way he had treated Mona, and of the
terrible death he had left her to die on board the
burning ship.'

So that cowardly villain has wrought evil
to others than myself. And, yet, how could it

be otherwise? Listen, sir. I came out from
home in the Australasian to rejoin my husband,
whom I had not seen for two years. I perhaps
was not very deeply in love with him, for he was
not only a good deal older than myself, but also
a somewhat harsh and unsympathetic man.
My parents had practically forced me to accept
his offer, otherwise I should never have married
him. But gradually this man Charles, or
Charles Leith, as you call him, became extremely
attentive to me, and withal was so gentlemanly
and delicately kind that it was not for a longtime
that I discovered what a power he could
exercise over me. I swear that I did my best to
resist it, and 1 know that he made me yield by
the exercise of a horribly potent magnetic
influence. However, helplessly or guiltily, I
yielded to his wiles. He promised to marry meas
soon as my husband gained a divorce, but I
would have remained true to him with or without
marriage. I was cut to the heart at first by
his indifference to my safety at the time of the
collision, but forgave him. Well, when I, among
others, was brought safe to Sydney, I did not goto

my ImsbaBd's friends in the coimtiy, but to
an hotel, where I eagerly hoped to get news of
the safety of the boat in which my lover was.
If no word had come within another week
beyond the time I had waited, I was going to
have rejoined my husband. I know it would
have been inexcusable, but what could I, helpless,
without friends or money, do ? But one day,
just as 1 was eagerly reading the news that the
cutter had been picked up, there came a tap at
my door, and in he walked. He had arrived
the night before from Brisbane. Fortunately
he had money with him, and so he paid my bill,
and we went away. The money was soon
gambled and lost, and at Bathurst I had to sing
at a low drinking place, which it makes me sick
to think of. He began here to treat me brutally,
more than once striking me. At last he shot
the man who owned the saloon, and we had to
fly. I won't weary you with all that happened,
but will tell you how we parted. We had
reached a small town called Yass, and had, as
usual, to leave it before long. He was desperate
for money, having lost everything, but the

night before we left he gained sufficient gold to
enable him to purchase a good horse. He
would have ridden off and left me then but that
I was too quick for him. In time we reached
the hamlet of Jugeong, and though it was much
divergent from the road to Wagga-Wagga,
whither we were bound, we struck South along
the Tumut River to get to a place called Indra,
away down among the hills — for what object
I do not know. But after a time we lost
the way. Towards evening we were riding
slowly along a dry river-bed, when suddenly
from the shrub near flew out a long spear, and
then another and another in quick succession.
The natives were after us. Then that coward,
determined to save himself at all hazards, strove
to thrust me from the now galloping horse, but
I clung to him for dear life. At last, raising his
riding-whip, he struck me again and again
across the wrists till, screaming for mercy, I was
obliged to let go. I. expected to be killed the
next moment, as I found myself encompassed
by dark figures, but an old man came forward
and asked, in broken English, if the rider was

Masser Hill of Yayook. I told him we were
strangers from Sydney, and neither meant nor
had ever done him or his any harm. I don't know
if he understood me, but at any rate he spoke to
the tribesmen in his own tongue, evidently
informing them that they had attacked the
wrong man. I afterwards learned that this Hill
had done them some cruel wrong, and they had
determined to revenge themselves. Instead of
doing me any harm, they took me with them
for some distance, and then sent me, in charge
of one of the tribesmen, along the Coubaragan-
dra Creek until I reached Tumut. At last, after
Aweary journeying across country, I found myself
in Wagga-Wagga, and face to face with Leith.
He laughed in my face, taunted me, and then
insulted me horribly, ending by casting me off,
and not even giving me enough to pay for a
night's shelter at an inn. But I managed to
get an engagement to sing at a brandy saloon,
and I had only appeared once when Mr. Turner
(who had come from DeniKquin on business) saw
me and made certain proposals which I, disgraced
and homeless as I was, only too thankful-vol.

II. P

ly accepted. There ! you have my story in full.
So you see your wife is not that man's only
victim.'

The unfortunate woman had uttered all this
with nervous impetuosity, but, rapid as her narration
had been, Armitage only gained the drift
of it, for he felt as if he were growing mad
from doubt and horrible dread.

I am dazed, and can take in but little,' he
replied, slowly, ' and now I can only see one
thing clear — to follow Leith.'

He turned as he spoke, and was just about to
leave the room when Mrs. Turner came close to
him and whispered fiercely,

Kill him, kill him, when you meet him ;' and
then, in a softer and more pathetic tone, she
added, 'And, if you can, have pity on your
unfortunate wife wherever she may be. Be
assured no woman falls as she and I have done
without fully expiating her fault in agony of
both mind and body.'

Something touched Hew acutely. For one
thing, this unfortunate woman was a sister of
Mona in grief and shame.

Will you be long here V he asked ; * forgive
the question, but I have a reason.'

God knows ! I am an outcast that may be
told to go at any moment.'

Armitage turned round and saw some ink
and paper on a table. Sitting down at the
latter he wrote a brief letter, signed it, and gave
it to Mrs. Turner.

If ever you are in dire need — and at once,
if you wish to break the bondage of your present
life — go to this person in Melbourne. He
is my agent, and will both give you funds to a
certain extent, and help you in any other way
you may suggest.'

Armitage left at once, and no sooner had he
gone than the woman fell on her knees, and ina
passion of weeping felt that even now the
bondage was broken, and that henceforth she
would live a new life — or die.

Before another hour had passed, two persons
left the small capital of Riverina — one mounted
and the other in a buggy driven by a stable-lad.
The latter took the road due south to
Echuca, the first township across the Murray

pon

the Victorian frontier. The former rode at
a long swinging gallop north-eastward towards
the junction of the Billing and Yanko
Creeks.

Armitage — for it was he — had forgotten
nothing that might be of service, or neglect of
which might prove serious in his rapidly concentrating
pursuit. Food he had with him, both
for himself and horse, and the latter had already
been so well supplied that it was quite fresh
again.

Cooree was passed, and then the few scattered
log-houses of Jerilderie, where he rested through
the noon-heats. Before sundown he was in
the saddle, and scouring across the thinly-wooded
country through which the rough
track led. At moonrise he saw on his left the
gi-eat stretch of narrow lagoons known as
Lake Tirana, in the middle of which gleamed
the reflected image of the dull-golden orb.
The herons, egrets, spoon-bills, black swans,
and other birds made strange] and hoarse noises
as they were disturbed by the beat of the horse's
hoofs in full gallop, and even in his brooding

excitement Armitage felt the desolate illness
of the scene.

Later on he passed through a tract weirder
still — a great stretch of gum-tree forest extending
to about thirty miles, over which a
bush-fire had long ago swept with such speed
that the greater number of the trees had survived,
or rather had remained standing. White-stemmed,
with the bark every here and there
trailing downward or hanging from the barren,
leafless, and branchless boughs, the scene was
one of extremest melancholy. Every fifth or
sixth dead, erect, giant was partially phosphorescent,
owing to a luminous fungus that
grew close to the trunk in broad patches
There was absolutely no life in this dead forest
neither bird nor insect flew or fluttered amid
the whitely gleaming boughs, and no insects
save those which fatten upon dry rottenness had
their being in the sapless debris that littered the
ground. The moon shone between the bare
trunks as between the pillars of ruined temples
in some nameless city of the immemorial past.
In the shadow the gaunt, stiff* boughs had a

ghastly appearance, as if titanic waving arms
had been petrified in the very throes of some
great agony.

On — on — through the night and morning
Armitage rode : then, later on, across streams,
over plains, through belts of outlying forest,
and, finally, through the bush proper, till at
last on the third morning he saw the gleam
of sunrise upon the white tents of the then
capital of the miners.

As he reached the outlying portion of Wagga-
Wagga a man lunged heavily across the rough
road, evidently intoxicated. The latter was
nearly run over, but he made an efibrt to spring
aside.

His pale face, flushed a little with drink, had
grown ghastly in the morning light. Armitage
saw the figure in front of him, but had only
time to swerve aside without seeing the man's
face. If he had even looked back, he would
inevitably have recognised the pallid face of
Charles Leith.

Curse it! he's followed me here, after all,'
muttered the latter, with white, quivering lips.

Fool, fool that I was not to have settled him
that time in the cutter. He'll be the death of
me yet. There was murder in his face as he
rode past.'

Sobered by the shock of meeting his enemy,
Leith went rapidly in the direction of the
broken-down log-house which he shared with
one or two men. One of these OAvned a horse,
and it was for this animal that Leith returned,
not entertaining a second thought of regret
at despoiling even a comrade. Before saddling
and bridling it, he cautiously entered the house,
and, noting that its inmates were sound asleep
in their opossum rugs on the floor, he replenished
his stock of revolver cartridges, appropriated
another comrade's flask and a heavy
horsewhip, and then scribbled on a piece of
paper, ' Gone to Melbourne — will make it right
some day.'

He had no intention of going to Melbourne,
but he left this message on the chance that
Armitage might be again deceived, and put on
the wrong track. He meant to make his way
back to Sydney, thence to sail to San Francisco
as soon as possible.

But already Armitage had learned where
Leith slept, the inspector of the mounted police
happening to be at the door of the ' Good
Fortune ' as he rode up, and willing to give the
information.

Without taking a moment's rest, exhausted
as were both man and horse, Armitage turned
and rode in the direction of ' the third last
house on the Houlohan Road' — the same he
had just traversed.

CHAPTER VII.

AT LAST.

As Armitage neared the louise to which he had
been directed, he caught sight of a horseman
rapidly disappearing towards the ford across
the Murrumbidgee. But he paid little attention
to this early traveller, having all his attention
concentrated on the house, wherein he felt certain
he would at last confront his mortal enemy.
This time there would be no mistake.

Arrived at the door, he dismounted and
fastened his horse : then, with his riding-whip,
gave a loud tap. That he was heard by
those within was clear from a deep curse,
accompanying an invitation to 'shove his
corpse in.'

He saw two men lying huddled up in greasy,
dirty rugs, but neither of them the man he
sought. Looking eagerly round, he noticed
that there was no second room or attic, and
also that there was no other exit than by the
door.

Is Charles Leith not here V

Can't you see for yourself V grumbled one
of the men, savagely. ' Who the mischief is
Charles Leith ? I don't know him. And who
may you be V

I want to see him about something. I know
that he sleeps here when he has returned from
the gambling hells.'

'Oh, I see, you must mean Charlie Jackson.
Is Charles Leith another of his names ? He
was last known as Charles when he hooked it
from Sydney with the " Star of the South." '

Shut up, you fool,' muttered his companion,
very audibly ; ' how do you know this ain't a
mosquito V

A mosquito was digger slang for a member of
the police. Armitage by chance knew this,
and replied at once that he had nothing to do

with the police, and that it was on a wholly
private matter he wanted to see the man they
called Jackson.

Meanwhile one of the men had lazily risen,
and, just as Armitage stopped speaking, his
eyes caught sight of the piece of paper left by
Leith.

By George ! look here, Jim ! Banged if
Jacky ain't vamoosed, and if he ain't taken my
revolver and your riding-whip.'

'If he has taken my riding whip, he must
have had a horse, and he sold his three nights
ago after that euchre flurry we had. Wait a
minute!' and the man hastily ran out to the
shed where he had kept his horse. He returned
blaspheming horribly, and uttering foulest imprecations
on his late comrade.

'He can't be long gone, though, as I can see
in the stable.'

What does he say in that bit o' paper,,
Toms

Why, that he's gone to Melbourne, and that
he'll make it up to us some other time.'

Blast him ! I'll make up to him with some

cold steel or a lead pill on the next time we
meet. Lend me that horse o' your, Mr. ,
and I'll run him down for all his
start.'

Which is the track for Melpomene?' asked
Armitage, eagerly, taking no notice of the man's
request.

Are you a-going' after him in earnest ? *

In bitter earnest.'

Then I tell you what : in my opinion he's
going' the opposite direction ; he's not the man
to let you know where he's off to. I guess he's
either off Deniliquin way, or up by Yass and
Goulburn to Sydney.'

'Where would a rider be going to if he
crossed the ford?' asked Hew, with sudden
excitement.

Why, either straight up along Houlohan's
Creek, and then across the plains northward,
but this Jackson would never attempt unless he
was mad. The road to the right leads to
Jugeong and Yass, and Goulburn and Sydney.
Why do you ask V

'Because, just as I came here, I saw a

horseman disappearing in the direction of the
ford;

Did ye see the horse ? What was it
liker

Yes — it was unmistakable — a bright chestnut
with a great snatch of white along the left
flank and leg

Then, by Jupiter, it was Jackson you saw,
and he's off by the Sydney and not the Melbourne
Road.'

Without another word Armitage sprang into
the saddle, and galloped off in the direction of
the ford, crossing which, he dashed forward to
the right, reckless of the endurance to which his
horse and himself might have to be put. By noon
he reached a rough wayside inn, and stopped
for a minute to inquire if a horseman had
recently passed that way. The owner was
having his siesta, and he was with difficulty
disturbed, but at last he came to the door,
cursing the furnace-heat that was blazing
everywhere.

A rider ? I don't know. It's too hot to door
notice anything.'

Did a horseman not stop here V

'Mebbee he did and mebbee he didn't. Are
you for anything to drink; or do you want
shelter till sundown ? No ? Well, then, good
day ;' and with this the door was slammed, and
Armitage was left no resource but to continue his
journey or rest under whatever shade he could
get. By sundown, much exhausted by the
dreadful heat, he reached Jugeong. ' No,' he
was told, ' no traveller had stopped at the inn,
or passed through the hamlet, for three days
past.'

I wonder if he has diverged from the route,
or if I passed him somewhere,' mused Armitage,
but of course vainly. He had only passed one
man, a stockman, and it was this very individual
who, a couple of hours later, came into
the one-roomed inn and awoke Hew by the
crash of the saddle as it was thrown to the
ground.

'Hill! ain't you the man as thundered by
me on horseback two hours a gone V

Yes, I remember passing you.'

'Were you after a party?'

Yes,' answered Hew, eagerly ; * why do you

Well, just afore you corned up, I seed a man
in front o' me turn round his horse from the road
an' cut into the bush. I thought, perhaps, he
was one o' the gentlemen o' the road. Well,
you flurried past me, given' me a look as ef
you'd like ter have swallowed me. When you
were out o' sight, I tied my horse to a bough and
clambered up a blue-gum, and there, as sure as
hookey, I seed the same man galloping' hard back
along the road we'd come. He kept on till he
came to the bend where a track branches off by
the Tumut, an' then I lost sight o' him.'

From the bottom of my heart, I thank you
for your information. That man is a scoundrel
beyond description, but I want to hear something
from him first before I kill him. Where
do you come to after following the course of the
Tumut r

Oh, I don't know these parts,' replied the
man, evidently regretting that he had said so
much. 'Probably he's made for Kiandra, for
from there he can branch off in fifty directions.

It would be like looking for a needle in a hay-stacks


As speed was now everything to Armitage,
he sought the landlord to see if some arrangement
could be come to about a fresh horse.
The man agreed to let him have his own, a
powerful roan, in exchange for Armitage's
bay and ten guineas, a proposal to which the
latter, having first seen the roan, willingly
acceded.

The moon shone brilliantly clear as, freshly
mounted. Hew dashed swiftly back along the
road he had so lately traversed. By midnight
he was at the junction of the Tumut and Murrumbidgee.
When the sunrise burned above
the summit of Mount Majongbury, he was
within five miles of the small township of
Tumut. Here he learned that, not long before
his arrival, a horseman had exchanged his horse
for a fresh one, and had galloped away at once
by the rough bush-track that led to Kiandra.
Amiitage gave himself and his horse an hour's
rest, and then started again in pursuit.

By the early afternoon he reached Kiandra

and there he heard that the man he was pursuing
had stopped for a couple of hours at
noon. Before leaving he had got ample instructions
as to finding his way across the
Murray into some of the inhabited districts of
Gippsland. From Kiandra, Armitage went,
after some food and rest. The country became
wild and mountainous. On the left he saw the
flat mass of Table-Top looming large in the
moonlight, and far away to the right the great
shoulder of Big Bogong. The gum-covered
ranges were like Avaves on an ocean of primeval
forest. Then the barren slopes of Bald
Hill were passed, and the roan galloped steadily
along the bases of the ranges till Hew saw
before him the stream he was looking for, the
Guarding Creek. This led into the Snowy
River, a mere streamlet here, so close to its
source in the wild solitude and desolation of
the Australian Alps. Following the course of
the Snowy River, he found himself among great
mountainous ranges, clad gloomily with dark
sassafras and darker blue-gum. There was an
absolute stillness, as if Death or Sleep had here
VOL. II. Q

their earthly abode of silence. Mount Kosciusko
towered in front, becoming clearer and
clearer in the growing light of dawn. Beyond
was the vast bulk of the Ram's Head, rising to
between six and seven thousand feet. Cinnabar
caught the flush of day from off the shoulder of
the Ram's Head, and later, the Pilot, Forest
Hill, and the peaks of the Concords.

The scene Alas grand in the extreme, and
Armitage, half-unconsciously, noted that nowhere
had he seen anything more impressive
and magnificent.

As he descended into the valley he found
that he had left the bush behind him and that
he was now in the magical fern-tree country.
Anything more lovely than the sunlight illumining
these fern-tree glades he had never seen.

The scrub was not nearly so thick as further
into Gippsland, and he was able to ride along
with considerable ease. The laughing-jackass
gurgled and screamed; the lyre-bird
mocked the various feathered kind with delicate
exactness, breaking at times into its own sweet
song; the whip-birds cracked; the bower-birds

kept up a clucking sound round their wonderful
habitations; and over all billed the intense
pr-r-r-r-r of the tree-locusts. Along a great
tree-fern bough lay a huge monitor, or, as this
giant lizard is called by the colonists, an iguana,
its length of five feet gleaming yellowly in the
early sunlight. Rare orchids hung on the trees,
magnolias filled the air with heavy scent.
Everywhere was life — a multiplicity of animal,
insect, and plant life, to be equalled nowhere
save in the forests of Brazil.

At a distance Armitage heard that sweetest
mystery of the Australian sub-tropical forests —
the tolling of the bell-birds. The soft, silvery
toll, chiming at intervals through the woodland
distances, brought a vision of home to him — a
calm, autumnal Sabbath day with Mona by his
side, and the church bells ringing faintly along
the gorse-clad slopes of the Sidlaws.

But in a moment all visions, all knowledge of
the strangeness and beauty around him, passed
out of his mind.

There, not fifty yards away from the slight
rising on which his horse had mounted, was

q2

another horse fastened by the bridle to a sweeping
fern-frond. Beneath the tree itself lay
Charles Leith sound asleep, so sound as to
suggest the stupor of extreme fatigue. A
strange exultation possessed Hew. His revenge
was at hand, and the truth was about to be
made known to him at last.

He did not hurry, but leisurely dismounted
and secured his horse. As he walked forward,
creeping at times when the tangled undergrowth
became too dense, his steed whinnied to
its companion, which shrilly answered it.

Leith stirred, but did not awake.

Armitage walked close up, and stood looking
at him a long while. Was this man here, lying
so helpless, really the devil he had proved himself
to be ? He looked strangely innocent,
pathetically human in his deep slumber. Ina
short time these fern-tree leaves would be
stained red with his life-blood ; what would
become of that treacherous, tigerish soul ? The
magnetism of the human gaze, if not so strong
over men as over animals, is strong enough at
almost all times, when intently concentrated, to

pierce tbrongli the numbness of sleep. Doubly
so when the gazer is possessed of strong will,
and animated by such intensity of emotion as
was Armitage.

Leith's eyelids quivered, and then uplifted.
Dazed with the sunlit expanse of blue sky, the
eyes at first had the expression of those of a
somnambulism or an opium-eater. When this
passed away there came a look into them that
reminded Hew of a long-past incident — the
rabbit hunted by a stoat in the woods of Firnie.
There had come over the bush one of those
strange lulls, more frequent and more startling
than in the tropical or semi-tropical forests of
any other country. Not a parrot, not a cockatoo
shrilled discordantly ; the bell-birds had
ceased tolling; the lyre-bird no longer fluted
its wild, sweet mockery. Even the tree-locusts
had for a little desisted from their piercing
jubilation. Absolute silence, as if the time were
mid-noon instead of early morning, reigned
throughout the fern forest. Suddenly a horrid
scream rang through the aisles of sweeping fronds.
A single scream, but full of horror, a dread,

an extremity of despair that no wild outburst
of shrieks could have surpassed. It was like
the yell of a condemned spirit.

Charles Leith had been awakened by the
intense gaze of his enemy, and, though he saw
before him only a man with folded arms, clasping
in his hands neither knife nor pistol, he
knew that his hour had come. Then it was
that there rang through the forest that horrid
scream of mingled dread and despair.

In Armitage's worn, stern face, in his fierce,
unflinching eyes, Leith read his sentence of
death, and knew that at last the game was in
the hands of his adversary.

But as he looked, a cowering, abject object,
upon the strangely subdued wrath of the man
before him, a throb of desperate hope stirred in
his heart. There was one chance, if only he
could quickly enough seize the opportunity.
But at the moment he was paralysed.

Suddenly he gi-swelled on the ground, crawling
slowly forward like a beaten hound.

Mercy, mercy,' he moaned. ' You are a
man! give me at least a chance for my life

Do not be a coward, and murder me in cold
blood !'

Do not speak to me of cowardice and mm
der, Charles Leith. A worse coward and traitor
than you never defiled God's earth. A murderer
you are, a murderer of soul and body.
You have murdered my wife, though it would
have been better if you had done so by the
knife than by agony of the spirit; you have
murdered my soul, for you have slain all belief
and hope; you have murdered, or done your
best to murder, the unfortunate woman who
had the deadly ill-fortune to meet you on board
the vessel you came out in ; and God knows
what all of evil you have done. Murderer, dog,
your hour has come at last. As you have done
unto others, so be it unto you.'

Armitage ceased speaking, but still made no
motion. Leith grovelled, moaning for mercy —
white, ghastly, trembling like an aspen.

A laughing-jackass on a stringy-bark close at
hand began gurgling out a peal of unnatural
laughter, ending in sounds of frantic strangulation.
Leith shuddered. To him, the scoffer and

infidel, this bird seemed a demon prophesying
woe.

Charles Leith, where is my wife V

Hew spoke in a low tone of suppressed
emotion, but as imperatively as a god might to
a satyr.

I never killed her — I swear it ! God is my
witness, I never urged her to leave her home,
or had anything directly to do therewith. I,
and I alone am the person who forged your
cheque, and 1 got the man Murdoch to cash
it for me. Hew Armitage, listen to me ! Wait
one moment ! one moment ! Curse you ! curse
you !' he gasped, as Armitage forced him back
against a mound of fern-leaves, and slowly
intensified his vice-like grasp. ' Let me have
one moment to die!' he hoarsely prayed.

Seeing that a momentary respite was granted,
he took breath, and supplicated again.

If I confess all, and prove to you that I am
innocent of your wife's departure from home,
will you spare me my life?'

'Murderer and liar, your hour has come,
whatever you may say. Speak, and tell me of

Avhat you are guilty — but do not hope for mercy.
With these hands I shall force the tigerish soul
out of your body — by these hands you shall die,
though by the act my own soul passed into
undying death !'

I am innocent — innocent — I swear it before
the God whom I have so often offended, and
whom I have at last to meet. Hew Armitage,
did you never guess who I am? I am riot
Charles Leith, but Charles Cameron — Mona's
brother!'

Armitage gave a start, and drew back a step
or two. In a moment, without further words,
and on the information of a man whom he knew
to be an unscrupulous liar, he realised that he
had listened to the truth. He knew at last the
origin of the vague likeness to some one else he
had often noticed in Leith, and in a great burst
of light there came home to him an absolute
understanding of all that had puzzled him in
the early days of Leith's appearance on the
scene. He had known of the existence of the
brother and of his forgeries, but he had never
spoken to Mona about him, and had, when he

thought of him at all, imagined him either dead
or resident in some far-distant colony.

Leith noticed the effect of his announcement,
and went on eagerly.

■•Yes, 1 am, indeed, her unworthy brother —
of whom you have of course heard. Mona
always loved me, and tried to shield me. When
I turned up at Firnie, I told her she must help
me, or 1 should disgrace myself and her again.
She tried to persuade me to get away before I
should be recognised, but I had changed so
much that I was not frightened of being found
by anyone interested. By watching her I
found out the secret of the escritoire, and by
abstracting some letters and accounts, which I
subsequently returned, I made myself perfect in
forging your signature. I was even indiscreet
enough to write it one day on the white table
in the little summer-house— though I returned
the same evening and rubbed it out. Ultimately
Mona knew of what I had been guilty, but she
had beforehand sworn solemnly not to betray
me — and you know how reverentially she always
kept her word. I soon found out how your and

the detective's suspicions went, and by many
ways I misled yon and others. 1 hoped to
make more out of you before I left again. On
the day Mona left home I thought of trying to
force her to bring me something by exercise of
magnetic influence — but for my pains I only
learned of her flight. Of that flight I to this
day know nothing more than yourself, if as
much. But I saw my opportunity then, and I
seized it. The note you found in the escritoire
was a forgery. 1 put it there with the utmost
difficulty. The letter 1 sent you from the
A australasia was a lie ; so was all I told
you Ashen we were both near death in the
cutter. The letter I sent you in Sydney, as
from Mona, was a forgery. All this I confess,
praying you to have mercy on a miserable man.
Do not send my sin-burdened soul into eternity
only to meet certain perdition !'

Use no hypocritical jargon to me, Charles
Cameron. Do you think I do not know you
for what you are ? Devil ! have you not all the
same destroyed our joint lives — Mona's and
mine ? Did you not blast her reputation by the

Tile calumnies you spread abroad and caused to
be published 1 Have you not ruined me ? Have
sou not murdered all happiness for me or mine ?
No, Charles Cameron, brother though you be of
the human being whom I loved with all my
heart and soul, you shall have no mercy. Have
you anything else to say? — for you have not
another minute to live.'

Yes, Hugh Armitage, I have one thing to
say. Firstly, to tell you that I hate and loathe
you still, and that if I could work you further
evil I would ! Stop ! hear me out ! And
secondly, I have to ask why you do not question
me as to whether I know Mona to be living
or not?'

What do you know ? — speak — be quick !'

Mona, your wife and my sister, is dead. She
died four months ago.'

This is another lie — to gain time, I suppose,'
said Hew, ^vith a fierce sneer.

It may be a lie for all I know, but it is
hardly likely it would be worth anyone's while
to print a lie for no object. This slip of paper,
cut from the death-announcement column in a

Melbourne paper I saw at Wagga-Wagga, Alluring
you a double conviction — firstly, that
your wife never came to Australia with me ;
and, secondly, that your last three or four
months' trip has been undertaken in vain, sofar
as she is concerned.'

As he finished speaking, he dream forth a
battered pocket-book, and, taking from it a
piece torn from a newspaper, he handed it to
Armitage. There, in terrible matter-of-fact type,
he read the announcement of his wife's death.

Stunned with grief and horror at his bitter
fortune, this was the moment on Which his adversary
had calculated and on which his only
chance for life depended.

With utmost swiftness Leith — or rather Cameron
— whipped his revolver from his belt, and
fired straight at Armitage's face. He saw the
whirled arms of his enemy as he staggered
back, but he did not wait to see if his shot had
been fatal. Snapping the bridle in two in his
wild haste, he sprang on to his horse and dashed
through the fern at a speed that would have
been reckless if it had not been impelled by the
fear of death.

Thus, after all, was Hew Armitage baulked
of his revenge. He had suffered terribly, he
had pursued a vain hope for thousands of miles,
he had clung at last to the thought of retribution
— only to end in this, the escape of the man
he had sworn to kill, and the gaining of a piece
of torn paper that told him that Mona had died
months ago under his own roof.

His forehead had been only grazed by the
bullet from Leith's revolver, but he was stunned
for a few moments. He made no effort at pursuit.
For a time he stood with his hands hanging
straight down, his shoulders bent, his eyes
aflame with anguish. No tears came to relieve
that poor, agonised man. He was old now —
grown old in grief. If only he could die ! But,
alas ! death does not come simply because of a
broken heart.

After a time, his knees tottered and his arms
were flung above his head as if in imprecation
and hoiTor of the calm, untroubled sky above
him. Then he swayed forward, and fell to the
ground, wildly shouting out in a hoarse, choking
voice.

There is no God !'

A few days later, the following paragraph
appeared in the Melbourne Argus : —

Yesterday the Macedon left Hobson's Bay
with an average number of passengers, in addition
to an exceptionally heavy instalment of
wool. This is this fine vessel's fifth retm^n trip
from Melbourne to London, and Captain Woods
hopes to be as lucky in having a quick passage
as he has been heretofore. Among the saloon
passengers were Mr. M'Gubin, late Mayor of
Ballarat ; Mr. and Mrs. Joyce, of Track ; Mr.
Edmonstone, of the Government Staff; and Mr.
Hew Armitage, some particulars of whose sad
story have recently found their way into the
papers. Sorrow and suffering have turned Mr.
Armitage's dark hair to white, and the one or
two friends who knew him in Scotland were
hardly able to recognise their acquaintance of
old days.'

VOL. II. B

CHAPTER I.

MARY M'IAN's charge.

Nearly three years elapsed before Mary M'lan
received news of the death of Mona Armitage.

Three, nine, twelve years went past, and
made little change at Loch Ranza, or upon the
strange, silent Avoman whom all the villagers
respected, but whom they also held in a reverential
awe that precluded familiarity. Mary
M'lan had grown a little greyer and more haggard,
and in her eyes there was oftener that
strange, doubtfully questioning look which is
to be perceived in the gaze of those in whom
the spirit dominates the body. Stern as she
was in her outward manner to strangers, jealous
as she was of the slightest attention to Lora on

r2

the part of those with whom she was unfamiliar
to the child she was ever gentle and loving,
firm where firmness was called for, and so entwined
herself round the heart of Mona's little
daughter that the child simply idolised her.
While very young she had led a healthy, open-air
life, joyous as the birds she used to shout to,
or as the frisky lambs she was wont to invite
to join her in her play; and while still little
more than an infant Mary took her down to the
wain summer sea and taught her to swim. She
was allowed to become the delight of the fishermen,
and the object of adoration of all the
youngsters of the locality, but it was not till
after her tenth birthday that Mary consented tolet
her go for a sail in one of the fishing smacks.
Too well she knew the treacherousness of that
element which had already caused her such
bitter loss, and Lora she always felt to be a
sacred charge. But when once that irrepressible
lassie had, with her fascinating prettiness of
appeal, won over Mrs. M'lan's consent, Lora did
not stop with one experience, but gi-actually
became such a good sailor, and took such evident

delight in sailing, and gained so much physical
vigour, that May became reconciled, though
never easy, while her darling was away. After
her seventh year, seeing how quick the little
one was with what she had been taught in the
cottage, Mary sent her daily to the schoolmaster's
house, where she received good, if
limited, teaching. As she grew older and more
winsome, Lora became a great friend of the
daughter of Mr. Jamesonee, the minister of the
place, and from the kind and cultured elderly
widower she learned much that opened out to
her new vistas, and formed the basis for much
future intellectual delight.

In these twelve years Lora had never once
left the island, unless a steamboat excursion
around it may be called leaving it. She had
grown accustomed to the daily steamer that in
the summer months met the ferry off the mouth
of Loch Ranza, but when she occasionally was
over at Brick, on the south-western side of
the island, and saw the large number of people
who there came ashore, she was touched into a
vague sense of wonder that there should be so

many people travelling about at once. Why-did
not they stay on that bigger island, the mainland,
she wondered ; for what was there so much
going to and fro ? One day she was sitting
on the rocks above the Corrie landing-place,
watching the people disembark from the ferryboat.
It was in the middle of August, and
there was a considerable number of tourists, most
of them visitors for the day only, though among
them were a few pedestrians, algiers, and artists.
One of the latter looked at her admiringly, and
remarked to a friend that, if this girl had not
been a lady, he would have got her to sit to
him at once, as he would not find a lover face
and expression in all Arran. Among the last to
come up the rocks was an elderly gentleman,
but clearly wiry and in good trim for the fishing
excursion upon which he had manifestly
come. As he stood hesitatingly near Lora, he
turned and asked a gentleman if he could direct
bim to the hill-road that would lead over to
Loch Ranza, adding that he wanted to proceed
thence by Catacol, and round the north and
west sides of the island. Hearing the person

questioned state his inability to supply the
information, Lora went up a little shyly and
told him the paths he should take, adding, with
a eager look in her eyes, * And don't forget to
fish the Catacol itself, sir ; it's never been better
than this year.'

• Thank you, my dear he replied, smilingly.
I won't forget. Do you live at Corrie V

No, sir, at Loch Ranza. But I often come
over the hills, especially if I can get a ride one
way. It's only eight miles across by Samiox
and Glen Chalmidael.'

'And are you going back to-day's Yes?
Well, then, won't you be my guide ; unless you
will find an old chap like me very tiresome.'

I won't find you tiresome, sir,' said Lora,
gravely. * I like old men — especially fishers
and sailors.'

As the two went along that lovely shore road,
leading towards Sannox, the angler began to
be more and more interested in his little companion.
She seemed to know everything about
the island, the names of the flowers, the birds, the
insects, and even, to his great surprise, much of

the legendary lore wherein he was himself something
of a student. It was after a long and enthusiastic
account of her last trip to the Ossian
tombs on the western side of the island, and
some rapturous remark she made in Gaelic about
the great son of Fingal, that her companion,
looking at her curiously, said something to the
effect that he hardly understood how she could
have acquired so thorough a knowledge of
Arran and its legends, unless she had lived there
all her life.

I suppose,' he added, ' you come here with
your friends every summer. Do your people
live in Glasgow V

I have no relations except granny, and she
and I live at a little cottage near Loch Ranza
all the year round. I have never been away
from An-an in my life V

What ? Do you mean to say that you have
never been away from this island ? Why, I ain
surprised — for, you see, it's not as if you were a
little fisher or village girl ; and I should have
thought few gentlemen resided here continuously,
save the clergyman or a doctor. Who is
your granny?'

She is Mrs. M'lan.'

*And is your name M'lan too '? No? Lora,
you say ; what a pretty name — but Lora what V

Lora Cameron.'

It is strange,' muttered Morass companion ;
^ some memory has been haunting me ever since
I met this child, and, now that she tells me her
name, I know what my memory has been striving
to recollect. The face I remember is that
of my sister's girl-friend, Mona Cameron. I
have never seen or heard of her for fifteen
years or more — but of course she'll be grown up
now, probably married, and with just such a
child as this.'

Do you know what your mother's name was V

*I never had anyone except granny, sir.'

But after a time the old gentleman forgot in
L era's happy chat the resemblance he had noted,
and when she bade him farewell at the bridge
where the Easan came slipping along the pebbles
after its numerous somersaults up in Glen
Easan-Biorach, he, without any afterthought,
promised he would call and see her and * granny
if he stayed at Loch Ranza over night.

When Lora got home she was full of her new
acquaintance. Mary seemed far from pleased
at the girl's having walked all the way home
with a stranger, and having discoursed so freely
; but her frown deepened, and a half-angry,
half-startled look came into her eyes when she
heard Lora repeating what she had overheard
her late companion muttering.

WJio did he say you put him in mind of?'
she asked, hoarsely, and with so much suppressed
excitement that Lora looked at her wonderingly
while she replied: ' Mona Cameron!
I never heard of her before — though, of course,
the name Cameron is common enough in certain
parts. Did he say anything to you about this
Mona Cameron V

Only that it was strange that two such
uncommon names as Mona and Lora should
accompany two " Cameronss," and yet both
persons be quite unconnected.'

Silly old fool !' said Mary, crossly, ' I'll connect
him, if he comes bothering round here ;'
then, seeing the tears in her darling's eyes, she
took her in her arms and hugged her with such

loving earnestness that Lora's ruffled spirits
grew calmer, and she prattled on as before.

But it ^^as a case of out of sight out of mind
with the old angler: probably he had had a
good dinner, and then gone ois to sleep, not to
realise, until when fishing on the morrow up
Catacol water, that he had forgotten all about
his promised visit to his pretty girl-guide.

Instead of the old gentleman, however, Mrs.
M'lan had a visit from Mr. Jamesonee, the
minister.

After some desultory conversation, the latter
remarked,

Mrs. M'lan, I should like to speak to you
about Lora, if you will let me. I have never
asked your confidence about her, but 1 can see
quite well that she is not what you would have
her supposed to be ; in a word, I can see that
she is a lady, and with all the instinctive likes
and dislikes of a high-bred person. You will
not mind my saying this, when I tell you that I
can see she is in every way superior to my own
Ella, though the latter's mother was a true lady
by birth as well as by nature. Of course there

is some secret in the matter, and into this I have
no wish to pry ; but don't you think, for the
girl's own sake, that it is time her circle was
enlarged — that she saw something of the outside
world ? It may seem of no matter to you,
but I can assure you that it is bad for Lora
never to leave this island — never to get out of
the groove. It was all very well up till a short
time ago, but every month Lora is becoming
developed, and she has already outgrown her
associations, and craves, unconsciously, for something
more, something new.'

You are right, I doubt not, sir,' replied Mary,
gloomily ; ' but where could I take her ? There
are reasons why I couldn't take her to Edinburgh,
and, for myself, I should die in Glasgow
of the smoke, and dirt, and noise.'

I have been thinking of the matter. Do
you know that Ella is going away from home
for a year? No ? Well, it is so. She is going
to Oban, where my widowed sister has taken
up her abode, and opened what I believe to bethe
best girl's boarding-school in Scotland.
So I am sending Ella there to be well trained

in those things which I cannot teach her, and
without which a woman is inevitably at a
disadvantage.'

I am glad for your daughter's sake, Mr.
Jamesonee, but I don't see how your arrangement
affects me. / cannot afford to send Lora
to a boarding-school.'

No, but you might take up your residence
in Oban. It would, in any case, be more cheerful
for her than here. And, knowing my sister
as I do, I feel certain that she will let Lora
attend her school daily, without any payment
save in the matter of music and singing — but
this, perhaps, you could pay V

There would be no difficulty about that, sir.
1 will think over what you have advised. I
already feel as if you were right.'

After the minister had gone, and when Lora
was sound asleep, Mary thought out the matter
from first to last. When once she had decided
on any step, she made haste to have
the matter accomplished without any delay,
and thus, when she rose next morning, she
announced quietly to Lora that on the same

day Ella Jamesonee left Loch Ranza they
would do the same, and go and live in Oban
also. Lora was delighted. A few months
ago she would have left the island with
many apprehensions and deep regret, but
now she was thankful for the new life that
promised to take the place of the one that
was fast becoming strangely irksome to her ;
and, moreover, she would be glad to see the
place where her dear ' granny ' came from,
and in the neighbourhood of which were so
many spots sacred to her by tradition.

To both of them the subsequent month
seemed a dream. The cottage had to be
given up, Mary's few belongings to be packed,
arrangements to be made at Oban, and this
Mr. Jamesonee did, as well as enlisting his
sister's sympathy and interest in Lora Cameron.

Towards the end of September Mr. Jameson
and his daughter, Lora and Mrs. M'lan,
reached the lovely bay and the then small
and picturesque village of Oban. The minister
left Ella happy in her new home, and
glad also not to have to leave without

seeing his old parishioner and her charge
comfortably settled. But, while Lora blossomed
out like a flower, Mary M'lan became
more and more morose, and more and more
subject to strange fits of abstraction and dejection.


CHAPTER II.

Lord CAMERON.

Year after year came and went without, for
Lora, bringing any very exciting events other
than those incidental to the Hfe of any young
girl. By the time that Lora had passed her
nineteenth birthday it suddenly dawned upon
all her acquaintances that this tall, slim girl
was going to be a beautiful woman, that she
was already lovely to a degree far beyond any
of her companions. But it was not in physical
excellence alone that she had so developed ;
she was mentally very receptive and keenly
observant, deeply interested in knowledge of
all kinds ; susceptible to all that was noble
and beautiful in literature, especially in poetry

and in art, winch, however, she knew mostly
through the medium of engraving or etching.
Her face had a delicate pallor that
never seemed pale ; her dark eyes, of deepest
blue, were shadowed by long, curving eyelashes;
and the contours of her oval face
and straight neck were of quite exceptional
beauty and harmony. And as her body was,
so was her true self — gracious, temperate,
delighting in all things fair and beautiful,
and instinctively turning away from all that
was base and unworthy. She knew, as did
her most intimate friends, that there was
some mystery connected with her birth, and
often she looked forward to the time when she
would be of age, and when she would
receive from Mary M'lan, as the latter had
promised, some information as to her parentage,
and the circumstances that had, as
it were, stranded her so far from her right
position. While at school, Lora had been
introduced by her friend, Ella Jamesonee, to a
family who came from Edinburgh, and who
spent six months of every year at Oban, a
VOL. II. S

family who ultimately took her into the fold
almost as one of themselves. With the Ram-says,
Lora received those refining touches of
higher education which no school can give.
Here she perfected herself in music, here
she absorbed that poetic and artistic culture
which was to her as sunshine to the flower.
For the Ramsay were one of the best known
families in Edinburgh, and their acquaintance
was valued, not only because of the social position
they held, but on account of the grace and
beauty they added to life. Sir John Ramsay
was one of the most popular painters of his time,
and his works were characterised by the same
refinement of feeling and keen sense of beauty as
distinguished the man himself. Well versed in
literature, and himself a poet of no mean order,
he was able to keep his sympathies wide and
generous. His daughter Helen was Lora's great
friend, and when he had first seen the latter he
had been struck with her beauty, and, later on,
by the charm of her nature. Two autumns in
succession she had been urged by her friends to
return with them to Edinburgh — if not for the

Avliole winter, at least for the Christmas season ;
but, when she saw the extreme reluctance
with which Mary entertained the idea, she firmly-refused
to do as her inclination so strongly
prompted.

One beautiful August night Lora and Helen
Ramsay were out in the bay together, paddling
about in one of the four or five boats which the
Ramsay always hired for the months they spent
at Oban. The moon, full and glowing with deep
yellow light, hung above the steep height of
Dunolly, and shoved the ruined castle, deserted
by every living thing save the owl, the bat, and
lizard, but mellowed into pathetic harmony by
the amber moonlight. A few smacks were
stealing out of the bay, the water gleaming
phosphorescently as they ploughed their swift
way towards the herring-grounds beyond. A
long way off a small boat, oared by some
Joyous boys and girls, made a continuous
splashing, which mingled with their faint, happy'
laughter. Nearer shore glided along a small
black dingy, almost lost in the shadows, urged
slowly through the calm sea by tAv^o weary

s2

fishermen, one singing a low monotonous Gaelic
chant that rose and fell with an almost tidal
regularity.

'Helen,' at last said Lora, breaking a long
silence, ' tomorrow I shall be twenty. It seems
so strange to me, for, though I have been happy,
my life has been very uneventful ; indeed, with
the exception of the excursions in this neighbourhood
1 have made with you and the others,
I may be said to have seen no place besides
Oban and Arran. I wonder if it will always be
thus. I wonder if I shall ever take part in
that busy outer world of which I so often
dream.'

'Lora dearest, why won't you come with us
to Edinburgh ? I know you would be delighted,
and how good the change would be for you in
every way.'

Granny can't bear the idea well, or else I
would not have a second thought about the
matter.'

Why is Mrs. M'lan so set against it ? She
must be a jealous old thing, I think. You say
she is loving and gentle, but to me she seems

always as stern as John Knox — perhaps a good
deal sterner.'

It is for my own sake, as she tells me, and
as I implicitly believe. She has an uncontrollable
dread at the very idea of my going to
Edinburgh yet a while — indeed, as you know,
she is never happy if I am away from Oban even
for a day. Poor old granny !'

But, Lora dear,' kept on Helen, persistently,
you know that, after all, she is no more your
granny than I am ; she has herself told you that
she is no relation, but only your guardian. Has
she never, never told you, dear, whether your
parents are living or dead, or given you the
tiniest clue to what you are?'

'No, Nellie. And I can wait— though I think
often, and sometimes cry with yearning for fuller
knowledge. But Mrs. M'lan has been so good
to me from first to last, has devoted her whole
life to me, and has done so much for my welfare,
that I am only too glad to look upon her as a
relation, and to call her granny. I would as
soon think of calling you Miss Ramsay as of
speaking to her as Mrs. M'lan. But I shall be

glad, indeed, thongs fearing also what I may
hear, when my next birthday comes round, for
then I shall be of age, and then I am to be told
something at least of what I so ardently wish to
know.'

I believe you are a princess, or a duchess, or
something of that kind, Lora,' laughed Helen,
admiringly, but with tears in her eyes.

I expect the passive restfulness of knowledge,
not happiness. If happiness, home-happiness,
had been meant for me, it would have come tome
before this. Don't cry, Nellie ; why are you
crying, dear?'

Oh, I can't help it, Lora ; but you will promise,
darling, that, if ever it should be necessary
for you to leave Oban, you will make your home
with us — at any rate, for a time V

'I promise, as, indeed, I have already promised
dear Sir John. But now let us be more
cheerful. I wonder if tomorrow, my twentieth
birthday, will bring me any new thing ; every
birthday that comes round I expect something
important to happen.'

Well, it's going to bring us our Cousin Ned.

He's a dear fellow, but not very strong; just
been overgrowing, the doctor says. It's Edward
Duncan I mean, you know; you must
have heard us speaking of him. He's an artist,
a landscape-painter, and getting on famously.
Luckily for himself, he has about three hundred
a-year of his own, and papa declares that he is
the only young man he knows who wouldn't bethe
worse of this small fortune. But Cousin Ned
is not the man to let the grass grow under his
feet simply because he has enough to live on.
I don't believe he would work a bit less if he
had a thousand a-year.'

Then why is it so specially lucky that he
has this sum yearly V

Why, in lots of ways, of course, Lora ; but
chiefly because his health is not assured at present,
though the doctor assures him that a
voyage to Australia and back will do him a
world of good — will indeed ensure his being
robust for the rest of his days.'

A very sanguine doctor,' said Lora, smilingly.
' But how old is your Cousin Ned V

Oh, he's about twenty-three. He's a vci-i/

good fellow, Lora ; and, if it wasn't that he
won't care two straws about me when he has
once seen you, I'd fall in love with him at
once.'

Come now, Nellie, no nonsense. What if I
were to repeat what you have said to a certain
Mr. George Darby. Ah, you may well blush,
you deceitful girl. Do you think I am so blind
that I can't see that young gentleman's admiration
of you, and your — well, we will call it
kindly feeling towards him V

Laughing shyly, Helen Ramsay confided in
her friend as they rowed home all that had been
said to her by her lover, and even admitted
that she was in love herself.

When Lora woke next morning, she beheld
one of those glorious mornings nowhere more
lovely than in the Western Highlands. The
hills were glowing with sunt amethyst, with
deeper patches of purple where the heather was
thickest ; the sea and the bay were bright with
flashing silver, or soft, sleepy blue ; and on the
horizon dwelt that golden, palpitating mist which
foretells a day of windless calm and great heat.

In the forenoon she bathed with her friends,
and later in the day she and Helen went off fora
walk along the banks of Loch Linnhe. It was
well on in the afternoon before they returned,
and as they neared Fair View, the name by
which the Ramsay' house was known, they
turned to look again at the exquisite softness of
the afternoon glow that clothed Dunolly in such
a magic light. While they were standing thus
they heard a footstep on the pebble-sprinkled
sward behind them, and the next moment a
bright voice saying,

Well, NelHe, do you prefer the face of the
sky to that of an old friend, and a cousin to
boots

Oh, Ned, is that you ? I'm so glad to see
you again. I had no idea the boat was in yet ;
what a glorious day you have had for coming
through the Kyle — for I suppose you came to
Ardrishaig by the lonas — and Helen stopped
in the midst of her rapid greeting as she noticed
her cousin's eyes fixed wonderingly and admiringly
on Lora. ' And now, Ned, since you are
here, let me introduce you to my dearest friend,

Lora Cameron. Lora, as you will bare guessed,
this is my cousin, Edward Duncan.'

How do you do, Miss Cameron ? I have
heard of you from Sir John, and I am delighted
to make your acquaintance.'

Though the words were somewhat stiffly
ceremonious, Lora flushed under the unmistakably
admiring gaze of this handsome young
cousin of Helen's, and the latter looked curiously
at them both, mentally wondering if this
were not going to prove a case of love at first
sight. As they approached Fair View, Lora
took a frequent glimpse at their companion.
He was tall, fully six feet, and, though at present
too slim for his height, promised to become
a man of fine proportions. He gave the impression
of being fairer than he really was, for
his hair was of that lustrous shadowy brown
which only in strong light seems auburn ; his
eyes were grey-blue; his complexion very fair,
perhaps too delicately so to point to very robust
health ; and his mouth, with its thin, finely-moulded
Hps, was peculiarly sensitive. Lora
noticed how long and thin his hands were.

ill themselves an index to his sensitive nature.

The evening passed very happily for her.
Sir John made a pleasant little speech in her
honour at dinner which brought tears into her
eyes, and before she went away her genial, fine-looking
old friend pressed a small package into
her hand, which, he told her, was an earnest
of his own and Lady Ramsay's affectionate
interest. When she opened this at E-ose Cottage,
before Mary M'lan's delighted eyes, she
found a small pearl bracelet from Lady Ramsay
and a fifty-pound note from Sir John, accompanied
by a few words to the effect that they
both looked on her as another daughter. Lora
cried with happiness, but stopped suddenly asher
eyes caught sight of a bouquet of exquisite
musk and tea-roses.

'Why, who brought that?' she cried, wonderingly.


Who was the young gentleman, dear, that
walked home with you along with Miss Helen
and Mr. Fred r

Oh, it was their cousin, Mr. Edward Duncan
said Lora, trying hard not to blush.

Well, it was he who left it here for you. It's
my opinion he raiist have bribed the Earl of
Can tyre's gardener to let him have these roses,
for none such grow in any other gardens hereabouts.
He called here about an hour ago, and
left them for you, with best wishes for your
birthday and new year.'

How very good of him,' said Lora, burying
her beautiful face in the fragrant roses, and
hoping thus to hide how red she had become.
She remembered how she had suddenly noticed
Mr. Duncan's absence after dinner, and how she
had wondered where he had disappeared to for
so long. When she went to bed she was notable
to sleep at first for thinking over the happy
day she had spent — the happiest, she said to
herself, that had ever come to her. When at
last she succumbed to fatigue, she dreamed
pleasant visions, in each one of them appearing
the wistful eyes and handsome face and slim
figure of Edward Duncan.

CHAPTER III.

LOVE AND SORROW.

As the days went past, Lora saw more and more
of the Ramsay' cous. To everyone except
herself it became evident that the young painter
had fallen hopelessly in love with Lora Cameron.
He was restless and unhappy in her absence,
exuberantly cheerful and depressed by turns in
her presence.

It was nearly six weeks since he had joined
his uncle's party at Oban, and in another fortnight
he would have to leave them all and start
on his long voyage to Australia.

I won't be away more than nine months at
the outside,' he said, eagerly, more than once to
Lora, ' for I calculate on three months going and
three months returning, and about three months

in Victoria itself. I wish it were over, I'm sure.
I don't look forward to it now the way I did
some time ago.'

*How strange!' Lora would reply, knowing
quite well the reason of the young man's change
of view.

Gradually they were left more and more
alone during the long sunny afternoons, when
the Ramsay went sketching or fishing or fern-hunting.
Lora became intensely interested in
landscape art, was never tired of hearing about
it and its chief living exemplars, British and
foreign, and most of all delighted in watching
its principles being put into actual practice by
the enthusiastic young artist, who seemed to
have no greater delight than in yielding to her
manifold suggestions.

One evening — the first night of October, the
month wherein Duncan was to take his departure
for Australia — he and Lora were walking
along the shoreward path in the direction of
Dunolly. Neither had spoken for some time,
yet both seemed to be expressing more to each
other than they could have done by words. At
last the young man broke the silence.

'Lora' — and that damsel started slightly as
Duncan for the first time addressed her thus —
Lora, in a few days now I must leave Oban ; I
wonder if anyone will really miss me ? You
see, I have no relatives save my father, and he
and I don't get on very well together ; at any
rate, I know my absence will make no difference
to him.'

Oh, Mr. Duncan, I am sure you must know
that we shall all miss you. You are one of
Sir John's favourite young friends, and Fred
and Nellie, down to little Geraldine, all love you
like a favourite brother.'

Will you miss me, Lora?'

Yes, Mr. Duncan,' was the frank reply, but
uttered in a low tone.

Lora, will you miss me so much that you
will be glad to see me again when I return
from Australia — no, more than that, will you
weary for that return ? Lora, Lora daring,
you know what I mean ! You know that 1
love you with all my heart and soul — that I
loved you the first moment I saw you — and
that I cannot go hence without hearing something
definite from you.'

He had seized her hand as he spoke, and
held it in his strong grasp as he leaned forward,
looking eagerly into her shadowy dark eyes.

At the least sign of yielding he would have
put his arm round her waist, and drawn her
face to his to receive his rapturous kisses, but
his declaration was received in absolute silence.
Lora trembled, indeed, from head to foot, and
her mouth quivered, as if speech had reached
the lips, but only to breathe away therefrom
unspoken ; but Duncan saw nothing of this.

He waited some moments, that seemed to
him hours, then with a deep sigh he withdrew
his hand.

I have not offended you, at any rate, have
I, Miss Cameron?' he said, sadly. 'You must
know that I couldn't help loving you. But, if
you do not care for me, I am glad to know it
now rather than to have treasured up the hope
through my long absence, and allowed it to
become part of my life, only to have met with
bitterer disappointment at the end.'

Before he had time to fully realise how
terrible was this blow to all his hopes, Lora

turned her face and looked at him lovingly.
Ob, Lora, what do 3^011 mean — what do you
mean ? Do not tantalise me thus. Can you —
can you — say that you love me V

If I were to say that I cared for you sufficiently
to wait for you till your health is assured
and you are able to marry, but that I would
only so wait on the condition that there were no
engagement between us , what would you say V

Say ! Why, I would thank God that I had
such great happiness to look forward to. But,
Lora, is it true ? Do you really care for me
sufficiently to be my wife ? Oh, my darling, 1
can hardly realise it.'

I care for you very much, Edward, but, as
to becoming your wife, that is a very different
matter.'

Why, what do you mean, Lora V asked
Duncan, in astonishment.

It is best that there should be no misunderstanding
now or in the future,' was the quiet
reply. ' You know quite well, Mr. Duncan '

'Don't call me ''Mr. Duncan," Lora. It
seems to put a whole ocean between us now.'
VOL. II. T

Well, Edward, then,' added Lora, smilingly,
With a faint blush, ' I say that you must know
quite well there is a mystery about my parentage.
I know absolutely nothing, for Mrs. M'lan
has never enlightened me further than by informing
me that she is no more than my nurse
or guardian, and that I am a lady by birth.'

'What more do I want toknow^?' cried her
lover, impetuously. ' For that matter, if I ever
found you were not a lady by birth, what difference
could it make to me ? Thank heaven,
I'm not so snobbish as to judge people by the
station in life of their father or grandfather.
You are a lady — that is all I care to know ; and
this I do know, Lora — the most beautiful, the
loveliest, the truest lady I have ever met.'

But what,' went on Lora, taking no notice
of the last words, or the passionate tone in
which they where uttered — ' but what if there
should be some stain upon my parentage— what
if some dark shadow rests over my father's
memory — what if he be deserted and wretched,
or in need of any kind, and so all the more requiring
the love and attention of his daughter,

of whose existence possibly he has lost all
remembrance T

'Yon must not be quixotic in your nobleness
of soul,' cried Edward, eagerly, himself quixotic
in many things. ' No father could expect, no
father has any right to expect, love and attention
from one for whom he has done nothing,
whom he has left to grow up as best she could.'

Edward, don't you understand what else
this mystery may point to ? It may, indeed it
is more likely that my mother left me with Mrs.
M'lan — and, if so, for what reason ? Either
that there was need to hide me on account of
some mysterious necessity, or that I had to be
to be — put away because of shame.'

As Lora spoke her face was deeply flushed,
and the scalding tears were in her eyes.

Lora, my darling, I know what you mean —
but why think thus ? I cannot conceive your
mother being any other than a pure and noble
woman.'

Nor could I, until lately. But I have
thought more and more about the matter of
late, and I feel that 1 must be prepared for

T 2

such a sad solution of all my doubts. Looking
at it fairly, I am bound to admit to myself
that this fear may turn out to be well based.'

There is nothing, Lora, nothing that could
come between my love for you and yours forme
if once you give me that love fully.'

I don't know ; a little misunderstanding, a
little cloud may overshadow the whole heaven
of two lives. I have had little personal experience,
Edward ; but I have seen enough to lean
how cats-pawed we are by circumstances. It
might easily happen that, if there were some
disgrace attaching to my birth or parents, something
might arise therefrom that would soil
both our lives.'

*Lora — Lora — I swear that I would let
nothing of the kind ever come between us.
My darling, my darling, surely you can trust
me.'

There was a moment's hesitation — a wistful
look in Lora's tear-filled eyes, a trembling in
her agitated breast, and then all at once Duncan
knew that the dearest wish of his heart was
granted.

He took her in his anus and kissed her again
and again, holding her back from him at times,
and looking at her with passionate delight, and
then clasping her to his heart once more, whispering
half-incoherent, tender words. To Lora,
though she had known for some time past that
Duncan loved her even as she had loved him
from the first, the whole world seemed to be
one great throb of joy and happy peace. She
thrilled with each touch and kiss of her lover,
for she was really in love, and not simply touched
into that condition of mere affection which, in
the great majority of instances, is all that exists
between two young people. But below all the
passion she felt, newly breathed into being at
the first touch of his clinging lips, she felt
unutterably thankful to know that between
Duncan and herself there was the sure foundation
of a deep, sympathetic friendship — a friendship
without which no love would have seemed to
her worth all the suffering that love involuntarily
entails. Moreover, she felt intensely interested
in his work, rejoiced in the idea that her lover
was an artist, and that he had already achieved

SO much success that there could be Httle doubt
as to his being possessed of something more
than average talent. She was glad that she
could be proud of her future husband for the
work that could be seen of his fellows, though
none would she have felt if she could not also
have been proud of his qualities as a man.

This new ecstasy was so rare, so sweet, that it
seemed hard to break the spell. Moreover, that
most wonderful of all magicians, the moon, had
risen above the sea, and now sent from its deep
golden disc a flood of mellow light that made
every common object seem strangely beautiful,
added pathos to what was lovely, so that it
seemed as if a soul had awakened in the landscape.
Faint laughter and the barking of dogs
came from the village town at the curve of
the bay, the splashing of oars came pleasantly
across the calm waters, and at intervals sweet
fragmentary snatches of song stole from the
darkness that lay beyond the twinkling lights.

Nowhere in the wide world could we have
had a lovelier night in which first to speak of
our deep love, Lora daring.'

His words helped her to break the spell, to
be held in whose bondage was so new and
sweet.

Edward, you know now that I love you
indeed. Dearest, I trust you absolutely, and
give you my whole happiness in keeping. But
still 1 will not consent to have you bound tome
until after your return from Australia. By
that time 1 will perhaps know more, and in any
case it will enable you to realise fully the step
you propose to take. I do not wish to be a
drag upon you hereafter, dear, nor, indeed, do
I wish to bring unhappiness on myself. So
I think it will be best in every way if we do
not consider ourselves actually pledged to each
other.'

Oh, Lora, I cannot consent to this. Whatever
you may say, I will consider myself bound
to you — nor can I imagine even the possibility
of anything else. Say, say that you will consent
to be my wife ! Promise, darling, promise — if
not for your own sake, at least for mine. I am
weak, dear, in many things, and need your
strengthening influence ; you are my hope, my

aspiration, my faith, as well as my happiness.
Promise me, Lora, and I swear that you will
never have cause to regret it.'

Lora yielded to this passionate pleading, but
still insisted that her lover was to consider himself
free to alter his decision any time within a
year from date, and ultimately invade him promise
that, if necessary, he would stay in Victoria
longer than the nominal three months arranged.
Stay as long in Australia as you are advised todo,
or think best yourself,' she added ; ' stay
at any rate four months, and then come home
to me, after my twenty-first birthday next
August.'

When the two lovers reached Fair View,
they were greeted with loud questionings as to
where they had been. Lora blushed as little
Ronald Ramsay crept slyly up to her and whispered,
' I seed Cousin Ned kissing' you, but I'm not
going to tell.' In the midst of all the laughter
and interchange of trifles that was going on
something suddenly attracted Helen Ramsay's
attention — quickened as that young lady's perceptions
had become of late, owing to the state

of her feelings towards a certain Mr. George
Darby, the same with whom Lora had twitted
her on the night before Edward Duncan's
arrivaL After looking steadily at her friend
for a few moments, she exclaimed, delightedly,

Why, Lora, is it true — is it really true V

Is what true, you silly girl?' said the latter ;
blushing worse than ever.

Oh, I see it is ; come here at once and tell
me all about it ;' and Lora was dragged away
by Helen, who, however, ran back in a moment,
and to the astonishment of everyone, including
the young man himself, kissed Duncan, barefaced
exclaiming, at the same time, * There !
You're a dear fellow — that's what you are !' and
then vanishing like a will-o'-the-wisp.

Oh, oh, look at Ned blushing,' called out
a chorus of young voices, laughingly, with
several such exclamations as, * Well, I'm blowed,'
from the boys of the party.

'No wonder he's blushing,' said Sir John.
I say, Ned, my boy, is my Nellie making love
to you V

It looks like it. Sir John,' was the laughing

reply, ' but I think she only means to express
her congratulations.'

Congratulations ! what do you mean, boy ?
Have you sold half-a-dozen pictures at a thousand
each ? What ! by Jove ! I see what it is
my dear lad, let me shake your hand !' and Sir
John sprang up and shook Duncan's hand, as if
energy were a matter of life and death.

But what is it V cried Lady Ramsay, still
puzzled.

Don't you see,' cried her son Fred, ^ that
Lora and Ned have at last made up their
minds that they have been spooning in earnest.
He's just popped the question — wish I'd been
there to see, wouldn't I have given them a
fright.'

Oh, I am so glad,' and Duncan felt quite
touched by the fervency of the greetings which
showered upon him all round. All of the Ram-says
seemed genuinely delighted, and Lady
Ramsay, who had long been turning over in
her mind the idea of offering Lora a permanent
home as soon as she came of age, if it
turned out that the girl had no friends, and

was entitled to no money, felt very thankful
that her favourite nephew and this second
daughter had agreed to join their lives in one.

After Duncan had seen Lora back to Rose
Cottage that happy evening, he met Sir John
as he returned towards Fair View. The latter
talked to the young artist long and earnestly,
at first with a view to find out if Duncan really
understood all that might underlie the mystery
of Lora's parentage, and if he were fully prepared
to accept all possible contingencies,
and, when satisfied upon these points, thereafter
upon his art, and his intended method of
life.

There is no doubt,' said Sir John, after a
time, ' that, while no life is complete without
the life of woman, there are reasons why men
really possessed of genius should not marry
unless under very exceptional circumstances.
In nine cases out of ten marriage hampers the
true development of the artist or writer, unless
— which is rare — the fortunate individual
possesses private means. There is a great deal
of nonsense talked about the best work of a

man always being produced under the spur of
necessity. I don't believe it, and as far as my
own experience goes — and it is a pretty extensive
one — I have never seen it exemplified.
I find that when necessity arises it may stimulate
a man to unusual exertion, but it seldom
enables him to turn out better work. But in
your case, Ned, my boy, I believe everything
promises well. Lora is keenly sympathetic,
has herself strong artistic tendencies, is
already well read, and bids fair to become an
accomplished woman; moreover, she has been
accustomed to plain living and a simple way of
life, and yet not so accustomed but that she
will be glad to change it for one fuller and in
every way more satisfying. And, as for you, I
hope and believe that you will make her a good
husband. Be sure that you always care to
obtain her sympathy in your work ; do not let
marriage make you more indifferent to her
opinion than you are now ; above all, in a word,
make her your chief friend as well as your wife.
Without friendship no marriage can be a sacred
bond and in the case of the " creator " — artist

or writer — it means unhappiness, and perhaps
failure in achievement. And now one word
more. During this ensuing year of your
absence, I would advise you to write often to
Lora, and ask her to do the same to you — not
merely love-letters, you know, delightful as you
will doubtless find these, but letters in which
you will be able to convey to her your general
mental drift, and your dominant sympathies, so
that she may gain some further knowledge of
your character before you and she are married.
And now I've lectured you more than enough,
I daresay ; it's rather out of my line, but you
know, Edward, that it is because of my interest
in you as an artist of more than usual promise,
and of my affection for you as a relative and
friend.'

The next few days passed too swiftly for the
two lovers. Lora had feared that Mrs. M'lan
would not take the news of her engagement in
good part, jealous as the latter had always been
of any new influence over her daring's life ; but,
to her surprise, Mary seemed truly rejoiced, and
even disappointed when she learned that the

marriage would not take place for a year at
least.

At last the sad day of departure came, and
Lora experienced ber first real touch of sorrow.
But she was confident that the change would
do her lover good, and that he would come
back strong and well, and she knew how glad
he was that he would be able to employ his
talent in depicting scenes delightfully new to
landscape art. Nor had she had enough experience
of the weariness of waiting to know how
lonely this year of absence would seem to her ;
yet all the same she felt a lump rise in her
throat and the hot tears fall from her eyes as
she lost sight of the dearly-beloved face, and
saw only on the deck of the swiftly-departing
steamer a waving handkerchief before a blurred
figure.

She spent the afternoon of this first day of
sadness in a long walk by herself along the
banks of Loch Linnhe, and when in the late
afternoon she returned to the Ramsay, she had
for the time conquered her sorrow, and was
bravely hopeful and cheerful. •

It was late before she got back to Rose
Cottage. The room was dark and deserted,
and seemed to her very cheerless. She turned
and went into the little kitchen, bnt here there
was no sign of Mrs. M'lan either. She was
just about to leave the room when she caught a
glimpse of a figure lying on the small closet-bed
occupied nightly by the young Highland
servant-girl they had employed for the last year.

'Is that you, Maggie?' asked Lora, wondering
if the girl had been ill that she had gone to
bed without undressing.

Receiving no answer, she drew closer and
pulled aside the curtain. To her surprise, and
then to her frightened consternation, she recognised
the thin body and haggard, Aweary face of
Mary M'lan. The face was ghastly white, and
the glazed eyes were fixed in an unnatural
stare — so that a great fear went through Lora's
mind that her guardian was dead. But even
while she looked she saw a tremor pass over
the face, in the same way that a shiver will
flutter across the surface of a track of shifting
sand when the tide has turned from the ebb.

Granny, granny, what is the matter with
yon, dear ? Are yon ill ? Don't look at me
like that — don't you know me ? 1 am Lora —
your own loving Lora.'

Yes — yes — I know. Help me up, my dear,'
muttered the woman, hoarsely. * I'll be all
right in a little. I've had the sight again, Lora
I've had it twice to-day, and for the last
time on earth, for I've received my own warning.
I saw your mother, Lora, by my bedside
this morning. She told me that my work was
done now — well done, she said, thank God !
And to-night, to-night, darling, when I came
into the cottage I found no one here save little
Maggie, whom I sent round for Dr. Campbell,
as I wasn't feeling well. Meanwhile I thought
I'd sit by the kitchen fire, but when I got into
the room I saw some one else sitting there — a
woman, an old and weary woman. She looked
up as I came in, Lora, and I recognised myself.
It was my own wraith sitting there. Then she
rose, looked at me for a long time straight
in the eyes, and then passed away. I've not
many days now, my dearie, but, thank God,
thank God, my work is done.'

CHAPTER IV.

A SECRET REVEALED.

Late one still and solemnly beautiful afternoon,
Mary M'lan lay on the couch that, by her own
desire, had been placed outside the cottage, and
whence her weary, glazing eyes could take their
last look across those dear, familiar waters which
led onward past green Morven to the desolate
region where her youth had been spent, and
where her thoughts had been wont mostly to
centre. The sun was setting, and the dove-coloured
western sky was flushing into amethyst
and soft crimson, with bands here and there of
broad, stainless gold. The scene was intensely
reposeful. It was as if Nature were dreaming
through a sacred Sabbath of her own. No one
VOL. II. U

spoke, for beside the dying woman were Lora,
sir John and Lady E-amsay, and their daughter
Helen. Once Lora had attempted to sing something,
but the old woman seemed untouched
even by the voice of the girl to whom she had
given all the love and devotion of her nature.
A little later she sang a few strains of a mournful
Jura boat-song, which she had learned as a
little girl from one of the fishermen of Loch
Kanza, and, as the familiar Gaelic caught the
ears of the listener, she looked gratefully for a
moment in the direction of Lora, and then
seemed to pass into unconsciousness again.

Slowly the extreme loveliness faded out of
the sky; the gold passed away, the crimson
grew into plum colour, the amethyst deepened
into purple. A single star came out and flashed
intermittently. The first breath of twilight was
stealing out of the east ; and ere long the sweet
autumn day would be dead.

Suddenly Mary sat up, crying out in a strange,
deep voice the same Gaelic words, a fragment
of a lament, which she had uttered long ago by
the side of her husband's lonely grave on the

night when Mona Armitage had come to her at
her cottage at Loch Ranza.

Stopping abruptly, she caught Lora's tearful
gaze fixed on her face.

Granny — granny — dear granny — have you
nothing to say to me, no message to leave ?
Oh, remember what a single word from you
may mean. Tell me one word that may be of
help !'

But the old woman only repeated her chant
in the same sombre tone and strange, impressive
emphasis —

*Alas ! alas ! the light of life is gone ! Alas !
the silent darkness of the grave is here !'

There were a few moments of intense and
awesome silence, and then the dying woman
half-rose from the rough couch on which she
lay, stretching out her arms as she did so.

I see them — 1 see them,' she cried. ' At
last, oh, at last!' and calling on her husband
and her well-loved foster-child, as if she indeed
saw Sheumais and Mona before her, she threw
back her head, gave one long, deep sigh, and
passed away into that spirit-land with which

u2

she had always believed herself in such close
communion.

A deep and bitter grief filled Lora's heart as she
saw her earliest and truest friend lying still and
speechless in death. The Useless body before her
was the first she had so seen, and the shock touched
her strangely. She realised that death must
either be the most terrible of all things, absolute
cessation — annihilation — or else that it must bea
mere change, a lying down to awake in a new
land, and with a wider sphere in which to move.

For a long time she crouched by the side of
the woman whose love and devotion had been
equal to that of any mother, sobbing bitterly as
ever and again there came a flash of realisation
of the greatness of her loss ; but at last she
yielded to the persuasions of Lady Ramsay, and
went back with her friends to Fair View.

Next morning, even in the midst of her sorrow,
she received, with a thrill of deep delight,
a letter from Edward Duncan, which the latter
had sent to her by the pilot that had conducted
the vessel seaward. In this note her lover
managed to convey such a breath of love and

delight, that it retained its savour for the months
she had to wait before she heard again, and,
more than anything else, it served to dispel the
deep dejection into which she had fallen since
the death of Mary M'lan.

After the funeral it was found that Mary had
really possessed no inconsiderable sum for a
person in her position ; all this, without reserve,
was left under the trusteeship of Sir John Ramsay
to her ' beloved charge,' Lora Cameron. In
addition, there was put into the latter's hands
a small strongly-fastened tin box, which Sir
John carried home for her. Before the funeral
Helen Ramsay had assisted her to pack up all
her few belongings, and whatever of Mrs.
M'lan's she wanted to keep, so that, after the
lawyer had said his say, there was no need for
Lora to return to Rose Cottage again. The
Ramsay had arranged to go to Edinburgh the
following day, and their * adopted daughter,'
as they called her, was to go with them.
Nothing could have been better for Lora than
this change, and even her still keen sorrow for
her dear old nurse, and her longing for the face

of the man who had won her love, and whom
she would not see for so many long months, did
not prevent her experiencing a feeling of exhilarating
anticipation and excitement at the
idea of at last seeing something of that
world of which she had heard and read so
much.

Later on the same evening Lora opened the
tin box which had been left her by Mrs. M'lan.
At first, to her deep disappointment, she saw
nothing save a quantity of jewels, most noticeable
being a necklace of large and lustrous
pearls. In a moment she realised that these
must have belonged to her mother, and reverentially
she raised them to those lips which
had never consciously known a mother's kisses.

Lifting up the shelf on which lay the necklace,
with a beautiful bracelet of opals and
diamonds and several rings, she saw in the wide
hollow underneath a packet in white paper
carefully sealed and tied up, and beside it an
envelope with her name upon it in Mary M'lan's
crabbed handwriting. Eagerly opening the
latter, she found merely a short business-like

note, stating that the jewels in the box were
the remainder of those left, together with a
sum of money, with the writer, by Lora's mother
on behalf of the child ; that all the money and
about a third of the less valuable jewels had
been expended on necessary expenses, which,
owing to the kindness of Dr. Jamesonee's
sister, the schoolmistress, and of Sir John
and Lady Ramsay, had proved to be much
under what they would otherwise have been.
Laying this down, Lora took up the other
packet and read, also in Mary's hand, the
inscription :

To Miss Lora Cameron ; not to be opened by
her until she is of age, except under circumstances
of urgent needs

The young girl felt sorely tempted to break
open the package, intensely desirous as she was
to learn the meaning of the mystery to which
she had never really grown accustomed. In her
perplexity she went to Lady Ramsay's room and
laid the box and its contents before her.

My dear child, what exquisite things ! You

do not know the value of these, Lora. Your
mother must have been a wealthy woman;
no one in an ordinary sphere of life would bethe
least likely to possess such things, for not
only are they very valuable, but they are
evidently of old workmanship ; most likely they
had been in her or her husband's family as an
heirloom.'

Dear Lady Ramsay, will you keep them and
the package for me, for I am certain I should
open the latter some day if I kept it in my
possession V

I will do so willingly, Lora, if you wish, and
when I go to town the jewels shall be put away
in a safe place. As regards the package, I think,
considering the emphasis with which poor Mrs.
M'lan once spoke to me on the subject, that you
had better postpone opening it in the meantime.'

Lora felt relieved to have this legacy taken
out of her hands, and determined to think about
the matter as little as possible. Already, so
limited in the young is the faculty of suffering
for long, save when the very innermost chords
of the heart have been rudely strained, her sorrow

for Mary had faded into a sincere but
vague regret. This would not have happened
so soon if it had not been for the thrilling delight
which arose out of her love for Edward Duncan
and of his passionate adoration for her ;
a new experience that made the world seem
alive with a high pulse of joy and beauty and
happiness.

When Lady Ramsay heard her husband
passing upstairs on the way to his dressing-room,
she called him into her room and
showed him the contents of Lora's box. While
they were discussing the beauty and value
of the jewels, Sir John mechanically lifted
a small locket lying in a corner below a
fine but not very valuable garnet bracelet.
Looking at it while he was listening to
something his wife was saying, he suddenly
exclaimed :

Look here, Margaret ; these small pearls
upon its front form a monogram, a curiously
interlaced one, but undoubtedly a monogram.
The letters are quite plain to me now. See
what you can make out.'

After a few moments' scrutiny his wife looked
up.

They seem to me fairly discernible. It is
made of the letters M and A.'

Yes, you are right ; but the puzzling thing
is whether M or A stands for the Christian
name, and which for the surname. It is almost
impossible to decide. I am inclined to think
the A is for the latter, but I could not say so
definitely.'

I have tried to open it, but without success ;
yet it seems to me as if it were meant to
open.'

With a penknife Sir John managed to unclasp
the locket, and both looked eagerly to
see what it contained. They were intensely
interested to perceive a small miniature painting
of a fine-looking man, evidently young,
though with a face of great determination and
power. Opposite to the face, in the hollow
of the gold sheath, were engraved the letters
'H. A.'

Ah, that settles whether M or A stands for
the surname,' cried Lady Ramsay. ' If there

had only been a crest, or even a date of birth,
marriage, or death, the mystery could doubtless
be solved without even letting Lora know till
all was made clear.'

Well, we know something, anyway. In all
probability Lora's parents have borne some
name beginning with A; her father's initials
are " H. A.," and her mother's "M. A." From
this we may conclude that her mother was
really married, as we have sometimes feared
would not prove to be the case. Of course,
this is rather inconsequential reasoning, but I
am only suggesting a possibility. From this
clue we may not unlikely be able to learn
everything.'

'It is a very slight clue, John.'

Not so slight as you think. Bear in mind
that Mrs. M'lan stated more than once that
Lora's mother was dead, and that she led Lora
and us to infer that she died not very long after
the birth of her child. Lora is just over twenty.
Let us institute a search through the records of
births for the year preceding and the year
following, as well as that of her birth itself for

any child called Lora, the offspring of parents
whose names begin with the initials " H. A." and
«M.A."'

But even in experienced hands, John, this
would prove no slight trouble ; and then how
are you to know that the birth took place in
Scotland at all? It might have occurred in
England, on the Continent, at sea, in Australia,
in India — anywhere else.'

Quite true ; but the probabilities are in
favour of Scotland. However, there are other
threads to try and disentangle. I will employ
Meiklejohn & Co., the inquiry agents, and they
will, in addition, find out for me any record of
the death of an H. A. or M. A. any time within
five years succeeding Lora's birth — they will
also search the criminal records for any account
concerning personages bearing these initials —
and, again, they will find out the same from
the list of people who have disappeared, or who
have been known to have been drowned at sea
or killed abroad, and for the heirs of whom
search has been made in vain. Finally, an
inquiry will be instituted to. trace, if possible,

the early movements of Mary M'lan. We know
that her husband came from Ballachulish ; and,
moreover, that this was her native place also :
there ought to be persons there still who can
afford useful information. If we once learned
to whom she had gone to serve as a nurse, and
with whom she was when she married, we
would be close on the track. Anyway, it is
always something to have these clues ; and I
shall be surprised if a following up of them be
wholly fruitless.'

Next morning the Ramsay and Lora left
Oban, the latter feeling so excited, and, as she
remorsefully admitted to herself, so happy that
she could hardly sit still a moment during the
passage by steamer from Oban to the Crinan
Canal. The majestic heights of Mull were
gradually left behind, and a last look taken at
the surging mass of waters, which at times of
tidal change and contrary winds becomes the
whirlpool of Conyvrechan. At Ardrishaig they
found the iona awaiting them, and were soon onboard.


Lora never forgot that lovely day and the

glorious passage down narrow Loch. Fine, past
the lofty, serrated peaks of purple Arran,
through the lovely Kyle of Bute, past Rothesay
and Loch Striven, past the promontory of
Coal, and away up that unsurpassed Firth of
Clyde, past low, green hills with villas and
villages clustering at their bases, past Innellan
and the wooded stretch of shore between it and
Dunoon with its beautiful bay, past the Holy
Loch and the entrance to Loch Long, the latter
showing the hills of Loch Coil and Arrochar, the
strange boulder-mountain called * Argyll's Bowling
Green,' and the lofty peak of the curiously-shaped
'Cobbler,' past the low hills of Kil-organ
and the wooded promontory of Rose-neath,
with the castle of the Argyll nestling
deep amidst the autumnal foliage, and round
which lay the lovely Gare Loch, and then across
to Greenock, smoky and dirty, but on this night,
when Lora saw it for the first time, grand
with a splendour of sunset magnificence, accentuated
greatly in effect by the smoke and the
lurid gleam of distant furnaces. Here the Ram-says

were to land, and to proceed by train to
Edinburgh ; but before disembarking Lora was
able to get a glimpse of the river winding onward
till it was lost to view beyond the castellated
height of Dumbarton.

It was late before the train reached Edinburgh,
but the mere fact of being in a train was
a source of endless delight and excitement to
Lora, who had, of course, never even seen such
a thing before. The swift motion, the comfort in
the midst of such speed, the vision of the moonlit
landscape rushing past the windows, the lights
on hill-sides and in valleys betokening villages
and towns, the bustle and excitement at the few
stations at which they stopped, all served to
make Lora feel as if she were in a dream. Of
these things she had read, and she had even
mentally realised them, yet no mental conception
brought to her such wonder and exhilaration
as this ecstasy of experience.

With a sigh Sir John remarked to his wife,
who, like himself, was watching their adopted
child's excitement with beaming eyes, that it

was worth while to have hvecT so long out of
the world to be able to enjoy ordinary things
so keenly.

'What moments of wonder and delight and
interest she has before her, dear girl he added.
It makes one young and almost jubilant even
to look at her. It's my opinion that, if Master
Ned hadn't gained her affections at Oban, he
would have had to wait a nice long time, for in
Edinburgh she'll care more about sights new to
her than for love-making. I only hope fuller
experience won't rob her of her exquisite freshness
and beauty.'

As they were seeing to their luggage, a
thought suddenly struck Sir John.

'Look here, Margaret, you and the others goon
in the carriage and in the cabs. Lora and I
will walk home, for I believe she won't sleep a
bit if we shut her up between this and Grant
Square. Come on, Lora, take my arm, and I'll
show you a more wonderful sight than anything
you have ever seen.'

When Lora emerged from the station and
found herself in the very heart of the most picturesque

part of Edinburgh, she could only
give one rapturous cry and clasp her hand in.
silent ecstasy. Princes Street stretched right
and left, brilliant with gas-lamps and with
dazzling shop-windows, and to and fro passed
continually what seemed to the young girl
an extraordinary number of people and a confusing
traffic of horses, carriages, carts, and
vehicles of all kinds. There rose the monumental
mass of the Scott Monument ; behind
this lay a steep embankment trending downwards
to what seemed a ravine, and beyond
rose sheer into the night the swarthy magnificence
of the Castle Rock, crowned with its old
fortress and stone dykes, with gleaming lights
here and there from the soldiers rooms ; and
right in front of her rose up the old German-like
turrets and pointed gables of the old townhouse
rising above shadowy house in a manner
exquisitely harmonious to Lora's sensitive
artistic eyes. Then there were noble buildings
standing on sites where they could be really
seen aright, temples Lora thought they were at
first, until she recollected that they were the
VOL. II. X

Museum and the National Gallery. At the end
of Princes Street the Calton Hill rose up,
crowned with the Nelson and other monuments,
looking magnificent owing to the full moon
that hung in the cloudless sky behind them.
Below this, as she knew, must lie that ancient
palace of Holyrood, which she was so anxious
to see some time soon, and opposite rose up the
great bulk of Arthur's Seat and the moonlit
ridges of the Salisbury Crags.

Sir John allowed her to gaze unspoken to, till
at last Lora turned to him with tears in her eyes,
saying :

Oh, it is all so beautiful, so grand. I have
often thought nothing could come up to the
splendour of our western skies, but I realise now
that splendour is not restricted to this or that
aspect of nature. I have never seen anything
that has touched me so deeply as this ; I feel as
if there were tears in my heart, but tears of
mingled wonder, happiness, mystery, sadness,
exultation. It must be the presence, the hand-mark
of humanity that has made this impression
so keen. It seems to me as if the very stars

were more human here than when viewed in
our far away Highlands — so far away these seem
to me now — so far away.'

But when she looked away from the impressive
objects at a distance to her immediate
neighbourhood, she slowly became dazed with
the lights, the traffic, and bustle, the constant
passing to and fro of innumerable vehicles.
Sir John saw this, and so, telling her that a
glimpse was sufficient for one night, and that
they would now walk home, they struck through
the narrow, hilly streets that led up steep Cock-burn
Street into the heart of the Old Town,
for Grant Square lay up beside the Meadows,
on the backward slope of the Old Town towards
the base of the Crags. As they approached
St. Giles's, Sir John muttered, ' The Heart of
Midlothian,' and Lora gave a cry of delight at
thus coming on a spot she already mentally
knew so well. Another delighted sound came
from her a moment or two later. Up through
the thronged street, in itself a wonderful
phantasmagoria to her, throbbed the long roll
of a drum, accompanied by the fanfare of

X 2

trumpets and the shrill music of the fifes, and
below all the tumult of sound the deep, rhythmic
beat of soldiers marching. Lora had at times
seen detachments of Highlanders, and had once
or twice been fascinated by the small section
of the Volunteer forces known as the Oban
Fencible, but she had never seen actual soldiers
on the march. Borne with the unfamiliar
sounds came laughter, shouting, cheers, and
indiscriminate ejaculations, and, when she turned
wonderingly to Sir John, the latter explained
to her that the troops had just arrived in
Edinburgh from a South African campaign, and
that, after an enthusiastic disembarkation at
Leith, they were now marching towards the
citadel.

Nearer and nearer came the blast of the trumpets
and the deep, stirring roll of the drum, and
soon the first red-coats came into view, then a
mounted officer, and ere long the whole rank
and file of one of the Scottish regiments of the
line.

The brilliant procession, the deep gloom of
the shadows under the huge old houses, the

triumphal music, the shouting multitude, all
conspired to form an impression the mere vague
remembrance of which continued to thrill Lora's
whole being long after such things had become
to her quite unexceptionable.

In the midst of this exciting vision she
heard a voice suddenly exclaim her guardian's
name.

Why, Sir John, you here ! I thought you
were to be at Oban till the winter really set
inr

Oh, is it you, my dear old friend ? Well,
if you are surprised to see me here, much
more am I surprised to find you in this part of
the town, and walking about sight-seeing
like some gay, young spark. Where are you
staying f

I am living with my son, Fetters, in Grant
Square ; we have come to an arrangement whereby
for the summer months his Avise and family —
and he when he can — come down to the Cedars,
and in the winter months I stay with them in
Grant Square.'

A capital plan for all concerned. By-the-by,

I am forgetting. Lora, let me introduce yon to
my old and valued friend, Dr. Steele; doctor,
this is my ward, Miss Lora Cameron.'

The light of a gas-lamp shone full on L era's
face as she turned to greet the bent, white-haired
old man beside her. The old gentleman looked
at her curiously, and then said, in a low aside to
Sir John,

What did you say her name was ? — Lora
Cameron ? H'm ! It's an extraordinary likeness
to some one I have met, but whom I
cannot at this moment recollect. Well, I shall
be seeing you some day soon, I suppose V

We will be all settled again by this time
next week, so come to dinner next Wednesday,
and my ward here will tell you any number
of curious and interesting Gaelic legends, and
I daresay will even sing you a Gaelic song or
two.'

*I will do so with pleasure, and doubly so
now that you have added such additional
inducements. I am glad you reverence the
traditions and language of your own people,
Miss Cameron ; I'm half Gaelic myself, my

mother having been of the Macdonald of
Skye. To which branch of the Cameronss do
yon belong ? Not to those of Lochiei, 1
fancy?'

I — I — don't know,' stammered poor Lora,
and again a puzzled look came into old Dr.
Steele's eyes ; bnt after good-night had been
said he went on his way, forgetting all about
the charming young girl he had just met.

The morning after the return to Edinburgh,
Sir John Ramsay had gone to the famous
private enquiry ' firm of Meiklejohn & Co.,
and had there given all the information concerning
Lora and Mary M'lan within his power.
The head of the firm, and, as some said, all
that the firm consisted of, received the famous
artist graciously, and expressed his belief that
the matter would easily be found out, if Miss
Cameron had really been born in Scotland and
if Mrs. M'lan had gone to the girl's mother asa
servant, though the enquiry might occupy
considerable time and research. Promising to
come and report in a week or two, Mr. James
Meiklejohn bowed Sir John out, and, with

characteristic energy, at once set about the
preliminaries of his new commission.

A week elapsed, and the day came round
when Dr. Steele had promised to join his friend
at dinner. One or two other friends had come
in, and, either forgetfully or intentionally, Lora
was not seated next to the old doctor but
opposite to him. Again and again throughout
the dinner time the latter gazed at her with
the same puzzled look, but evidently without
any satisfaction to his curiosity. After the
ladies had gone, he found no opportunity of
questioning his host as to this new ward who
had turned up, but intended doing so as soon as
easily practicable. In the drawing-room this
chance occurred. He was standing near the
fireplace, and he heard Lady Ramsay discussing
the subject of apparitions with a certain
omniscient and very eccentric professor, well
known to everyone in Edinburgh, and incidentally
remarking that she had lately been
present at the death of an old Highland woman
who, at the moment preceding decease, had
undoubtedly seen, or imagined she had seen, the

figures of two beings whom she had greatly
loved, her husband Sheumais and some one
called Mona.

As the last name" fell on his ears, Dr. Steele's
gaze was fixed on Lora, who had risen and sat
down before the piano and begin to play one
of those dreamy pieces of Schumann, then by
no means so familiar as now.

In a flash some memory came back to him : so
noticeable, indeed, was the start he gave that
Sir John remarked it, and asked the old man if
he were unwell.

No ; but I recollect now the likeness that
has been haunting me since I saw your ward,
Miss Cameron's, face. Cameron, too,' Dr. Steele
muttered, ' it is very strange.'

What is so strange, Dr. Steele V

'Long ago, Kamsay, twenty years ago ur
more, a sad tragedy happened to two dear
friends of mine, who were also my nearest
neighbours at Firnie, in Forfarshire. Some day
I'll tell you the story. The maiden name of my
friend's wife was Mona Cameron, and I see in
your ward a most striking resemblance to her,

though Miss Lora is more robust both intellectually
and physically than ever was poor Mona
Cameron. The first moment 1 saw !Miss
Cameron I noticed a likeness to some one I had
known; but it was only just now that full
memory came back to me. Poor Mrs. Armitage,
her and her husband's fate was indeed a tragic
one.'

Armitage !' said Sir John, excitedly, thinking
of the initials H. A. and M. A., * possibly
Lora may be some near connection of your
friends : had they any children V

None living — or, if living, recognisable.
Mrs. Armitage died fully twenty years ago,
after having mysteriously disappeared With her
baby and been lost many days ; her brain was
affected, poor thing, and she died unable or
unwilling to give any information as to whether
her child were alive or dead. All inquiries
were made, but without bringing to light
the faintest clue. Poor flew Armitage himself
'

'Hew Armitage, do you say? Why, that's
H. A. !' interrupted his host.

'What's aitch-shayf asked Dr. Steele,
querulously, but resuming his sentence at a gesture
from Sir John. 'Well, as I Alas saying,
poor Hew Armitage had, before the discovery of
his wife, sailed on a wild-goose chase to Australia.
He went through great sufferings at
sea, and in the end was foiled in his revenge on
land, and ultimately he sailed in the Macedon
for London, but the ship never reached its
destination, and to this day, nigh upon twenty
years' time, has never even been heard
of.'

Ere Sir John could pursue the subject any
further, a servant came up to him and said that
Mr. Meiklejohn was downstairs, and particularly
wanted to see him.

Begging to be excused, he followed his servant
at once, and found himself in the library
along with the private detective.

Well, Mr. Meiklejohn, I suppose you have
come to report progress V

I've come. Sir John, to let you know that
I've got the information you wanted. One
of my agents went to Ballachulish, another

searched various records, and I did the rest myself.
Here is the result. Mrs. Mary M*Ian, who
died recently at Oban, was the child of a man
of the same name, Ian M*Ian, a small farmer at
the mouth of the Coe. At the age of eighteen
she took service with a Mrs. Cameron, the wife
of Cameron of Dunluiart, in Forfarshire. When
this Mrs. Cameron died, Mary M'lan remained as
nurse and guardian of the girl Mona. In course
of time this Mona became a lovely young
woman, and fell in love with a Mr. Hew Armytage,
of Firnie, in the same county. Shortly
after her marriage her father died. At this
time, or rather just before the marriage took
place, Mary M'lan left Dunluiart, and married
her cousin, Sheumais M'lan, a fisherman on Loch
Fine. After a time they came into a little property,
and settled at Loch Ranza, in Arran ;
later on Sheumais M'lan was drowned ; later on
the villagers of Loch Ranza learned that Mrs.
M'lan had a grandsire, or grandchild, or child
of some kind ; and finally, both left Arran for
Oban, where Mrs. M'lan died without giving
any clue to the parentage of the child whom

she called Lora Cameron. So much for May
M'lan.

For the others, yoii Avill find everything
summarised in this paper. Briefly, I
may say that Mrs. Armitage for some reason left
home with her baby-girl ; that she was lost for a
long time, and that when she was brought
home dying she gave no clue to its whereabouts,,
or did not even say that it was dead. Mr.
Armitage is also dead. So is Richard Armitage,
his uncle and senior partner. The business (a
shipowner's) is still carried on by Maxwell
Armitage, a son of Richard, and this gentleman
still keeps Firnie in order against its owner's
return, for he is fool enough to expect that Mr.
Hew Armitage is going to turn up after twenty
years' absolute silence. There can be no doubt
the latter was lost in a ship called the Macedon.
But Mr. Maxwell Armitage says he will keep
mere stewardship till the twenty-fifth year has
elapsed.

'AH further particulars about the Armitages
and their strange story you will get at first hand
from the aforesaid Mr. Maxwell Armitage, from

Mr. Gavin, of 9, Castle Street, a retired detective,
formerly employed in the case ; and, best
of all, from an old doctor, the well-known
physician Dr. Steele.

One word more, Sir John. If you can
prove Miss Lora Cameron to be the daughter of
Mrs. Hew Annitage — no easy matter, I am
afraid — she will be the hen-less to the beautiful
property of Firnie Knowe, and to a large fortune
in money.'

When Mr. Meiklejohn had taken his departure.
Sir John returned to the drawing-room,
and at once rejoined his old friend. He narrated
everything he knew concerning Lora,
from his first meeting with her to the recent
statement by the private detective.

Dr. Steele seemed much excited.

My instinct was right after all,' he said, ina
low tone. ' I am already convinced, Ramsay,
that Miss Cameron must be the daughter of
Mrs. Armitage, and that the latter put her in
charge of Mary M'lan ; but at the same time I
fear jow will have extreme difficulty in proving

this. Mere conviction won't go far, you know,
with the legal authorities.'

'Would you know a portrait of Mr. Hew
Armitage if you saw it — one probably taken
when he was somewhere about thirty years
old

I do not think I could possibly mistake
Well, there is our last guest saying goodnight.
I'll just see him out, and then I'll ask
you to step into the studio and look at a Httle
miniature I have in my keeping — the portrait of
Lora's father.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM liOUsE.

CHAMPAIGN
TOOKSTACKS

VOL. III.

BY

WILLIAM SHARP

Hither and thither blown, the sport of Chance."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Rights Reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sportofchance03shar

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

BOOK III.

(CONTINUED.)

V. A Strange Advent

VI. Unexpected News . . t .

VII. Fair or Foul

VIII. A False Move

IX. Mr. Farquhar visits Firnie Knowe

X. A Declaration of War









BOOK IV.

I. Conger Cove again 141

II. Mr. Strangers finds out what the

Initials 4 H. A.' means . .157

III. The Turning of the Tide . . . .181

IV. Gathering Clouds 2U

(CONTINUED.)

VOL. III.

CHAPTER V.

A STRANGE ADVENT.

As soon as the last guest, save Dr. Steele, had
taken his departure, the latter accompanied Sir
John into the studio. Opening a cabinet, the
latter took from it a small locket with a monogram
on its front, curiously worked in pearls.

< This, Lady Ramsay and I found in the small
tin box I told you of; the jewels and the papers
are in the strong-room of my bank, but I kept this
locket out for reasons you will afterwards easily
understand. Can you make out the monogram
formed by these pearls V

It is not very difficult to make out two 



tears, but whether the A or M comes first it is not
easy to say. To me it looks like M. A.'

Sir John opened it, and watched to see the
effect it would have on Dr. Steele. He feared
that after all his speculations would crumble
away like most other aerial castles. But the
effect was instantaneous and convincing.

It is Hew Armitage himself, and none other !
I would know him among a thousand. The
likeness is admirable, and has not only caught
certain distinctive features, but has also an expression
very characteristic of my poor friend's
face in repose. Ah, I see ! here are the letters
"H. A." opposite; but I didn't need these to
refresh my memory.'

'Now, what would you advise me to do
next f

6 1 should certainly recommend you to take
the responsibility of urging Lora to open the
papers at once. I think I can solve the mystery
beforehand. I will give you now a brief account
of the sad story, and I think you will come to
the same conclusion as myself.'

In a short space of time, Dr. Steele recounted

the main features of the story of Hew and Mona
Armitage, laying special stress on the monomania
that had taken possession of the latter.

At the end of his short but impressive narrative,
Sir John cried out,

I see it all. Poor Mrs. Armitage feared that
if her husband could get hold of their daughter
any time before she was of age he might be able
to wreak her some great harm, perhaps even kill
her. So she took all these precautions. Possibly
there is some unmistakable declaration in the
papers in the bank

I hope so ; otherwise the task of proving
Lora Cameron to be Lora Armitage will be very
difficult indeed.'

Well, I shall urge Lora to open the packet
tomorrow. If there should no longer be any
doubt about her parentage, she will want to see
you and hear as much as she can from your lips,
for you saw more of her father and mother than
anyone now living. Will you come in tomorrow
evening in preparation for this V

Having acquiesced, Dr. Steele took his departure,
and Sir John went up to his wife's room

and told her all that had happened. Both felt
quite excited, and looked forward eagerly to
perusing the contents of the packet.

Next day Sir John, in the presence of one of
the officials of the bank, withdrew the packet
from the tin box, and took it home with him to
Grant Square.

Lora did not return home till late in the afternoon,
having been on a long visit to Mrs. Octavia
Stuart, the sister of Sir John, and one
of the leading Scottish sculptors, as well as a
woman of exceptionally fine mental and spiritual
qualities. Lora Cameron and Mrs. Stuart, despite
the difference in their age, had become fast
friends, each sincerely admiring the other, and
each finding refreshment and strength in this
new friendship.

The servant who opened the door to her asked
her to go at once to Sir John's studio.

Did you want me V she inquired, as, looking
in at the door, she saw Lady Ramsay and her
husband in earnest conversation.

Come here, Lora dear,' exclaimed the latter ;
1 we want to speak to you.'

4 Lora, the time has come when we think it
highly advisable that yon should open this
packet. If no cine to the mystery that has always
surrounded your parentage had turned up,
we would have advised you to let things take
their course, but a clue has been found. In the
box you received from Mrs. M'lan we found a
small locket containing two sets of initials — this
was the first clue ; then Dr. Steele afforded us a
second; and, lastly, through a well-known
private-inquiry office we gained confirmatory
information. 1 have to-day brought the packet
from the bank, and, unless you are strongly
opposed thereto, I should emphatically counsel
you to open it now.'

Lora took the small parcel in her hand, but
grew so white with mingled apprehension and
excitement that Lady Ramsay put her arm
round her, and, kissing her, whispered that she
need have no fear of anything painful, for they
already knew all that could be told.

Giving a grateful look to her friend, Lora
opened the packet, and handed the enclosed
letter to Sir John, with a request that he would

read it to her. It was inscribed ' To Mrs. Mary
M'lan, to be kept by her for Miss Lora Cameron
till the latter is of age : but to be given to Miss
Lora Cameron in the event of Mrs. M'lan's
death.' Beneath this again was another wrapper
in a different handwriting, a weak and tremulous
one, with some words that Sir John did not
read out, but which were to the effect that the
packet was on no account to be opened by
Lora before her twenty-first birthday, save on
the event of her antecedent marriage. Enclosed
within this was a letter, a shorter one than Sir
John had hoped to find ; but as he saw at a
glance, confirmatory of his hopes, at the bottom
of the page were the words, ' Mona Armytage
and, opposite the signature, those of two
witnesses.

Sir John read as follows :

'I, Mona Cameron Armitage, wife of Hew
Armitage of Firnie Knowe, Forfarshire, knowing
that my days are numbered, but being in
my right mind, do hereby make this solemn
declaration : that the child I am leaving in the

care of my old nurse and friend, Mary M'lan, of
Loch Ranza, in the Isle of Arran, is the true and
lawfully begotten child of me and the said
Hew Armitage ; that she has been duly
christened " Lora " by the Rev. Peter Macrae,
of Corrie, in the said Isle of Arran ; and that to
her I leave all my worldly possessions of whatsoever
kind, present or accruing, and for her
own use, and under her own control absolutely ;
and I hereby declare that I have left my home
for this child's sake, and to prevent the commission
of a terrible sin. Up to the age of
twenty-one she will be known as Lora Cameron,
and thereafter she may take the name to which
she is entitled. But to her, if she is spared to
read this warning, I urgently pray that on
no account will she ever reside under her
father's charge. God bless you, my baby, my
daughter, and may He have mercy upon the
man who has so strangely, so inscrutably been
changed from one of the kindest and noblest
into one of the most ruthlessly sinful of men.
Dictated in great haste and tribulation by me,
and written by the aforesaid Rev. Peter Macrae,

I, the said Mona Cameron Armitage, hereto affix
my signature, in the presence of the said Rev.
Peter Macrae and the aforesaid Mrs. Mary M'lan,

< Mona Armitage.

Peter Macrae, witness,
4 Mary M'lan, witness.

1 I, the aforesaid Rev. Peter Macrae, hereby
declare that 1 duly wrote the above as dictated
to me by the said Mrs. Mona Cameron Armitage,
having first given my word of honour to keep
the matter absolutely secret, and being convinced
of the verity of the reason which has
prompted the said Mrs. Armitage to act as she
has done. I have this day ' (here followed the
date in full) ( baptised the said child by the name
of Lora.

< Peter Macrae,

Minister of Corrie,
1 Duncan Magister, elder, witness.
1 Andrew Macmillan, elder, witness.'

Enclosed in this communication was a long,
narrow slip of paper, unfolding which Sir
John read out the statements therein, which

were the certified extract from the Register
of Births, giving the exact elate of birth,
and other particulars concerning Lora Cameron
Armitage.

There cannot be a shadow of a doubt about
it now,' cried Sir John, exultantly. 'Lora,
dear, the mystery of your parentage is made
clear at last; you have come into knowledge
of your true name and position, and beyond
all doubt you are a landed proprietor and an
heiress to a very large fortune. Why, Lora,
my girl, you will be such a grand lady, you
will be marrying a duke or somebody and
forgetting all about us, not to speak of poor
Duncan.'

Oh, Sir John, how can you say such things
even in fun. But — but — I cannot feel so happy
as you would fain have me do ; for it makes me
sad beyond measure to think of all my poor
mother must have suffered.'

Dr. Steele has come, my lady,' announced the
servant at this juncture ; ' shall I show him in V

Yes, show him here.'

Nothing could be more opportune,' went on

Sir John, ' for no one can better narrate to you
the sad story of your fathers and mother's
lives. Ah, here you are, old friend ! Yes, we
have found all to be as we surmised. Lora
Cameron is now Lora Armitage. She will show
you this letter of her mother's, and then you will
tell her all you know, and, meanwhile, we will
leave you to yourselves.'

As soon as Sir John and Lady Ramsay had
gone, Lora went up to Dr. Steele, and, taking
his hand in hers, said, simply,

1 You knew my mother — and my father V

'Yes, my dear. They were my dearest
friends, and in all my long experience I have
seen no sadder fate than theirs— for this reason,
that both suffered dreadfully, without fault on
either side. Poor Hew, poor Mona ! it is difficult,
even now, for me to recall those weary days of
agony and slow despair without feeling deeply,
deeply saddened.'

Thereafter Dr. Steele related to Lora all he
could tell regarding her parents; how happy
they had been, how at last some little cloud had
confused the clearness of her judgment, how an

alien element of disturbance came in, Low Mr.
Armitage was puzzled and annoyed by a mysterious
forgery, and all the long, sad story.

The last thing I. heard,' concluded the
narrator, « was from your father himself. This
was in a letter which he had sent to me from
Melbourne, stating that he had been shamefully
and cruelly misled by the man Charles Leith ;
that, after dreadful sufferings of mind and body,
he had learned that his wife had never left the
country at all, and had been dead for months, and
that though he had tracked his cowardly and
shameless foe from place to place, the latter had
finally escaped out of the very jaws of death.
Of all that your poor father suffered, or rather
of all that in a previous letter he told me, I
shall some day make you aware ; now, it is of
no use, and I am glad to know that long ago he
found that rest and peace which would never
have been his had he continued this earthly life.
For, my dear, the ship in which your father
sailed was never heard of more; either the
Macedon foundered, or took fire somewhere on
the high seas, or possibly she was lost within

sight of laud in a terrible gale, which some
eighteen or nineteen years ago wrought enormous
havoc along the English and Irish seaboard.'


Then it is true that I am the heiress to my
father's property, and that there will be no one
to dispossess ! I cannot tell you how repugnant
it would be to me to turn out some one who for
close upon twenty years had come to regard
Firnie Knowe as his own.'

You are undisputed heiress. Sir John may
have told you about Maxwell Armitage. He is
a very wealthy man himself, and certainly did
not need either Firnie Knowe or the large
fortune going with it ; but, all the same, there
are few men who would forego such possession
merely on account of a conviction that the
owner would yet turn up. As the years went
by, Maxwell would occasionally use Firnie
Knowe for a week or so at the time of the
grouse-shooting, but all the rest of the year he
left it in charge of an elderly woman, who was
the wife of the head gardener at the time of
your father's departure for Australia, and who

has ever since acted most satisfactorily the part
of housekeeper. I often look up Mrs. Fyfe in
passing Firnie Knowe, for, as Sir John may
have told you, or as, by the way, I told you
myself, my place called the Cedars is in close
proximity to your property. I can assure you
that you will meet with nothing but welcome
from Maxwell Armitage and his charming
wife

And so it proved. Her cousin — for so the
gentleman in question told Lora she must
consider him — seemed delighted to find that his
prophecy was at least in part true, and did
everything in his power to render the legal acknowledgment
of Lora's claims an accomplished
fact. At the request of herself and Sir John
he constituted himself her guardian and trustee
until she was of age, always adding that he was
prepared any day to find either Mr. Hew Armytage
turning up, or at least some word of or
from him. This reasonless persistence used to
annoy Dr. Steele very much, and even the
genial temper of Sir John occasionally became
a little ruffled, especially as Maxwell Armitage

declared invariably that his belief was nothing
more than a fancy. But to Lora it seemed
almost prophetic. She never said to anyone
that she shared her cousin's obstinate belief, nor
did she ever even to herself admit the possibility
of its proving to be well based, but deep down
in her heart there lay dormant a vague expectation
which it would take long waiting to wholly
quench.

With Sir John, Helen, and Lady Ramsay she
paid a short visit to Dr. Steele at the Cedars,
and each day spent all the available time in the
house or grounds where her parents had lived
so happily until the first foreshadowing came of
that great sorrow which so eclipsed all their
chance of future happiness.

It was arranged that Lora should stay with
the Ramsay until her twenty-first birthday at
any rate, and that Maxwell Armitage should
advance to her a large allowance for all personal
needs. It was after her return from a call on
the wife of the latter, at their house in Fetters
Row, that Lora was informed by the servant
that a gentleman was in the library who was
desirous of seeing her.

CHAPTER VI.

UNEXPECTED NEWS.

A SUDDEN, foolish hope came into Lora's mind
that Edward Duncan had somehow returned ;
and just as she turned the handle of the door
another fancy replaced this — that her long-lost
father had at last turned up, as Maxwell Armytage
had always prophesied.

In the room she saw a slightly-built man of
very gentlemanly appearance, and apparently
verging on sixty; but as soon as she drew a
little closer she saw that, despite the grey hair
and the deeply-lined face, the gentleman before
her was probably under fifty.

He looked at her earnestly without speaking,
and Lora's heart beat high with unaccountable

VOL. III. C

excitement. At last she broke the awkward
silence by announcing that she was the Miss
Armitage whom he had asked to see.

1 1 cannot see any marked resemblance, and
yet there is an-unmistakable, far-away likeness
to my poor dear friend.'

Of whom do you speak, sir V

Ah ! I forgot. Pray, excuse me, Miss
Armitage, I was one of your father's dearest
and most intimate friends, though for many
years I knew him by a different name than that
which was his own. I have come to tins
country to fulfil his urgent request that I should
undertake the adjustment of a matter which
had, through no fault of his own, been allowed
to fall into sad and possibly irremediable
confusion.'

I do not understand you, sir,' cried Lora,
excitedly. ' You speak of having come over
to this country to fulfil some request of my
father's as if he had only recently died.
Surely it is a very leisurely beginning to start
such an inquiry twenty years after his death.'

A puzzled look came into the stranger's face.

1 also do not quite understand. Ah ! of
course — how dense I have been. Why, of course,
yon have all along imagined your father to have
died long ago

'Is it not so?'

'No, he died rather less than a year ago.
I '

At this moment Sir John Ramsay came into
the room, having learned that a stranger was interviewing
Lora, and being apprehensive that
some charlatan was sponging on her charity.
In a few words Lora explained to him what she
knew, and Sir John at once begged the visitor
to be seated.

I presume I have the honour of addressing
Sir John Ramsay — a gentleman of whom I have
often heard, but of whose work in art I am
unfortunately ignorant, owing to my lifelong
absence from this country V

Sir John bowed in acquiescence, but did not
speak.

'Permit me to introduce myself as Mr.
Edwin Farquhar, late of Warralong, in the province
of New South Wales. I have come over

c2

to this country charged with an important commission
from my poor friend Hew Armitage, or,
as I knew him for long, John Williams. I will
narrate to you, Miss Armitage, as briefly and as
succinctly as I can, all that I know concerning
your late father, In the spring of 18 — I was
returning to Sydney from Cape Town in a
vessel called the Dolphin, and, when about halfway,
one of the crew one day sighted a great
spar right ahead, and on this spar a human
being. The unfortunate man was still living,
but he could give no account of himself, and
there was absolutely no clue as to who he was,
or as to the ship in which he had been wrecked.
As we neared our destination, it became evident
that, with the return of physical health, the
castaway had not regained full mental vigour,
though this showed itself only in a remarkable
loss of memory. He had absolutely no idea of
what his name was, what ship he had sailed in,
from what port he had embarked, or for what
destination he had been bound. The night
before we landed, knowing the complete destitution
in which he was, and at the same time

being anxious to obtain the services of an honest
and worthy man to take charge of an up-country
station 1 had hitherto managed myself, I
made him an offer, which he at once and gratefully
accepted. It was no doubt a foolish thing
for me to do, but I felt strongly drawn to the
man, and felt certain that he was a gentleman
by birth, education, and nature. Well, to make
a long story short John Williams (for so he determined
to call himself) became my foremost assistant,
and in a comparatively short space of time
became really invaluable. Energetic, intelligent,
temperate, firm, full of tact and intuitive
knowledge of men, I saw that in John Williams
I had come across a treasure of a helpmate — so
much so that, as I found my affairs prospering
far beyond anything I had accomplished by myself,
I determined to take him into partnership,
knowing well that such a man would soon be
offered terms which would make him leave mere
stewardship. I never regretted any step less, for,
in addition to an invaluable partner, I found I had
acquired a friend, a man of much mental power
and of great beauty of nature. After some time

he gave up all efforts to recall his past, and contented
himself with the work of the present —
though I always knew that, as soon as he had
acquired a fortune, he meant to start on a long
quest after some clue that should elucidate the
mysterious darkness that shrouded his past
years.

6 Well, as I have said, we prospered greatly.
Perhaps, to my shame be it said, I urged
Williams to marry, because I feared he would
some day announce that he was going to breakup
the partnership and start on his long and probably
futile inquiry : but he would never put
up with any suggestion of the kind, and even
seemed to have an intense aversion to the subject
being broached in however light and casual
a manner. And we were really like brothers ;
indeed, we loved each other more affectionately
and sincerely than is the case with most veritable
brothers. But, after long unbroken success,
came the first of those terrible seasons of prolonged
drought under which Australia has suffered
so greatly of late. We were among the first
to suffer materially, and then disaster after disaster

came ; till at the end of three years — that
is, about the fifteenth of our partnership, there
came the ruin that had been so long impending.
To make matters more wretched still,
Williams caught a fever and became very, very
ill. Fortunately, a doctor lived at a small
township about eighty miles away from us, and
him I persuaded to take up his abode at Arras
until my friend should be out of danger.
But one day, to my great grief, this doctor told
me that there was little hope of ultimate recovery,
as his patient was suffering from a far-gone
disease of the heart in addition to his fever ; and
then he told me that Williams had regained consciousness,
and was particularly anxious to seeme.


When he was strong enough to converse, he
told me, poor fellow, that he knew he had not
got long to live, and then that he had something
of the utmost importance to say to me. With
much difficulty, for he was very weak, he narrated
to me the strange story of which you
already know part. " I am not John Williams,
but Hew Armitage," he told me ; and then he

informed me how, after his illness, all his past
had come back to him, and how it was a realisation
of that past that had injuriously affected
his already diseased heart. Next day he was
apparently stronger, and he told me the long,
sad story of his life — all about his wife Mona,
her strange disappearance with their child ; his
torture by a villain called Charles Leith; his
sufferings as a castaway from the Fair Hope, and
on board the same small boat in which was his
deadly enemy ; his chase of the foe throughout
New South Wales and Victoria ; the ultimate
escape of the latter, and his own acquaintance
with the fact of his wife's death ; his starting
homeward again in a vessel called the Macedon ;
the overwhelming of that ship in a terrific hurricane,
and his escape through having lashed
himself on a floating spar. " And now, after
more than eighteen years' forgetfulness," he
went on, " I have awakened to full remembrance
of all my sad past. I know I have not long to
live now, so I have drawn out a statement
which I will get Turnbull and Dr. Dixon to sign
as witnesses, and with this statement I wish you

to return to the old country and act in strict
accordance with my instructions. You must
first," he said, " make every possible effort to
find out if my daughter is alive ; if so, where she
is ; and then to enable her to take her place as
my heiress. As she will be under age for sometime
to come, and as she will probably not be
in a fit state to become mistress of so large an
amount of money and a property like Firnie, I
wish your guardianship to extend till she has
attained her twenty-fifth birthday, and in the
documentary statement in question you will find
I have made unmistakable arrangements. Failing
my daughter being alive, I leave you, my
dear friend, my landed property and one half
my fortune, the remainder to go to various
charities ; if she should be alive, you are to have
ten thousand pounds down, and a yearly sum
of three hundred pounds so long as your
guardianship extends."

t All this and more Hew Armitage told me,
and before his death he had the statement I
speak of properly drawn out, signed, and witnessed.
After his death, I realised what personal

property remained to me out of our joint ruin,
and came over here to fulfil my dear friend's
last wishes. On arriving in Scotland I went at
once to Firnie Knowe, but from a gardener
there I learnt that my search never need begin,
for that, two days before, you, Miss Armitage,
had returned to town with your friends the
Ram says, after a short visit to Dr. Steele at the
neighbouring Cedars. The man was communicative,
and told me all he knew concerning you,
and how recently you had found out that your
name was not Lora Cameron, but Lora Armitage.

4 What I have now got to do, Sir John Ramsay,
is to satisfy myself that this young lady is
unmistakably the daughter of the late Hew
Armitage, and thereafter I will assume that
guardianship which my dear friend so earnestly
prayed me to undertake.'

Very good, Mr. Farquhar,' rejoined Sir John,
as Lora thought, rather stiffly ; < and on my
part, as voluntary guardian, and on the part
of Mr. Maxwell Armitage, as natural guardian,
we will jointly make all inquiry into your
representations.'

How do you mean, Sir John ? I am supported
by the document in question, for of
course I do not ask you to accept my word
alone.'

Very good, sir. Will you come in this evening,
and I will ask Mr. Maxwell Armitage and
Dr. Steele to meet jour

1 Why Dr. Steele ? What has he to do with
the matter V

He was the late Mr. Armitage' s oldest and
best friend, and, whatever his advice may be, I
should feel inclined to abide by it

Mr. Farquhar smiled in quiet acquiescence.
Sir John had hitherto thought him a handsome
and even distinguished-looking man, but this
smile so altered his whole appearance that a
swift dislike, not yet consciously felt, sprang into
being in the heart of the former.

And now, Miss Armitage, may I have a private
talk with you ? I have much to tell you of
your poor father, of what he hoped for you if
you were still alive, and of his last days.'

Lora expressed her willingness to listen, and
Sir John withdrew, again expressing his hope to

see Mr. Farquhar the same evening and to peruse
the promised document.

8 Miss Armitage — or Lora, as I ought to call
you — it was your father's wish,' he added, seeing
the young girl's hesitation.

1 If my father wished it,' began Lora,
reluctantly.

8 He did, Lora. He wished me to take his
place in all things. And now I will tell you all
about his later life, and all he wished me to do
for you.'

When Sir John and Lady Ramsay saw their
late ward again, it was evident that she had
been greatly affected.

At the first,' she said, ' I did not quite take
to Mr. Farquhar, as was indeed natural. I don't
want any other guardian than you, dear Sir
John, though I am quite willing that Cousin
Maxwell should manage my affairs. But I see
that Mr. Farquhar is a noble nature — self-sacrificing,
generous, true-hearted to the last
degree.'

Did he tell you so V asked Sir John, drily.

No, of course not, but I easily gathered it

from his narration. I am thankful my father
had such a friend, and only too gladly will I
fulfil all his requests. But on one point I think
I am better able to judge than my poor father,
who never knew you or dear Lady Ramsay —
the best and kindest friends ever orphan girl had
and that is as regards my home till I am of age?
According to Mr. Farquhar, this, as regards my
succeeding to the property and fortune, will not
be for between five or six years yet, since my
father has fixed on twenty-five as the date at
which I am to assume my own responsibilities.'

I think that judgment could be set aside.
Your father decided thus in the fear that you
might have been brought up anyhow, and that
you would not for a long time be fitted to
become a rich person. He acted wisely, but it
has not been as he feared.'

1 If my father willed it, I think 1 would rather
keep to his arrangement. But what I want is
this : will you and Lady Ramsay let me stay
with you until I am twenty-five — or until — until
—well, until Edward asks me to marry him? You
see, I admire Mr. Farquhar, but I could not go

and live at Firnie with him and a governess or
companion as he wishes me to do.'

6 Certainly not, Lora ; don't do anything of the
kind,' said Sir John, sharply. ' And look here,
my dear : don't give any promise to him about
anything without consulting Mr. Armitage or
myself; will you, dear?'

I will do as you wish, of course, dear
Sir John ; but I think you are unjust to suspect
Mr. Farquhar, for that you do suspect him, I
see.'

No, I do not suspect Mr. Farquhar of anything
evil, but I cannot help feeling vaguely
uneasy. Well, I must be off to that meeting
of the Academy, but we will see what our two
friends will say to-night concerning your new
guardian.'

That evening, while Sir John and Lady Ramsay,
Lora, Maxwell Armitage, and Dr. Steele
were sitting in the drawing-room, into which the
servant had been told to usher no one save Mr.
Edwin Farquhar, that gentleman was duly
announced.

It was inevitable that there should be a certain

stiffness at first between the new-comer
and the others, but, despite Lora's cordiality,
it seemed as if the general iciness were never
going to thaw.

Instead of taking no notice of Dr. Steele, as
Sir John had imagined would be the case, Mr.
Farquhar endeavoured to make himself specially
agreeable to the stern-faced old gentleman,
who, however, retained an ominous stiffness of
manner.

At last the subject of the evening was
broached, and the visitor again detailed at considerable
length all he had to say concerning the
late Hew Armitage.

Here is the document in question,' he said,
finally, ' of which I have also drawn out a copy,
which I will leave with you, Mr. Armitage, as
provisional trustee.'

Will you be so good as to read it V requested
the latter.

Mr. Farquhar unfolded the paper, and read out
the contents in a low, clear decisive voice :
The Dying Statement of Hew Armitage.

1 1, Hew Armitage, formerly known as Hew

Armitage, shipowner, of Dundee, in Scotland,
and of Firnie Knowe, in Forfarshire of the same,
and for the last eighteen years known as John
Williams, formerly bailiff to, and for some time
past co-partner with, Edwin Farquhar, of Arras
in the County of Clarendon in the Colonial
Province of New South Wales, being at the
point of death, but at the same time in my right
mind, do hereby, in the presence of the witnesses
hereafter mentioned, solemnly declare as
follows :

That, on the thirtieth day of March, in the
year 18 — , I sailed from Melbourne for London
on board the Macedon ; that, after we had been
at sea (we were returning by the Cape of Good
Hope instead of by Cape Horn) for about three
weeks, we were caught in a hurricane, dismasted,
and the Macedon rendered a total wreck ; that
we lay water-logged all the next day, and that
late the same evening the end of the cyclone
caught us again, and literally overwhelmed
the ship ; that I was fortunate in being able to
fasten myself securely to a great spar ; that I
spent all the night and a great part of the next

day in the sea, which fortunately had rapidly
calmed down; and that I then lost all consciousness.


Here ends my life as Hew Armitage.

1 From what I subsequently learned I know
that I was descried by some one on board a
passing vessel, a ship called the Dolphin, bound
from Cape Town to Sydney, and that it was
long before the doctor on board was able to
bring me round. In due time I regained my
physical vigour, but, though mentally I felt
almost equally strong, I discovered that I
was suffering from an absolute paralysis of
memory. I could not even recall my own
name, much less my past life, the name of the
ship I had sailed in, from what port we had
sailed, or whither we were bound. From being
able to speak English more fluently than any
other language, I knew that I was British, but
more than this I knew nothing. I temporarily
chose the name of John Williams — the same
that I have ever since been known by. Onboard
the Dolphin one passenger was specially
kind to me, aud for him I soon conceived a

VOL. III. D

warm and grateful affection, and it was this
gentleman, Edwin Farquhar by name, who
generously stretched out to me a helping hand
when, otherwise friendless and penniless, I
found myself on shore again. I now know that
if I had stayed any length of time in Sydney I
should infallibly have been recognised sooner or
later, but, as it happened, Mr. Farquhar wanted
to reach his station without delay. To make a
long story short, we in due time reached Arras
then one of the remotest stations in New
South Wales, and there I became his bailiff while
he attended to another station further north.
Prosperity followed our efforts, and in course of
time my generous benefactor made me his
partner. For a long time past I knew that
something was seriously wrong with my heart,
but I had foolishly refused to see Dr. Dixon, who
resided at the township of Along, some eighty
miles away. At last I fell ill of fever, and it
was during my slow recovery from this attack
that the mists cleared away from my mind, and
I remembered everything. I think the enforced
rest did my heart good, and I might have rallied

completely, for the fever was over, and was not
likely to leave permanent ill effects, but the
terrible shock that I endured from a full realisation
of my past was to prove irrecoverable.
The doctor tells me, and 1 know it to be true,
that in a few days at most this weary and much
tried heart will cease to beat.

Realising, therefore, what important influence
it is my right to exercise before death
renders further action on my part impossible, I
hereby formulate my last wishes and commands.


Having already obtained the verbal acquiescence
of my dear friend, Edwin Farquhar, to my
proposed plan, I need have no doubt as to his
doing his best to fulfil my various requests. In
the event of his death, my nearest blood-relation
will naturally have to assume the trust hereinafter
specified.

4 As soon as I am dead, Edwin Farquhar will
proceed to Scotland, and will do his utmost to
find if the daughter of myself and my beloved
wife is living. If he succeeds in finding her, he
is to assume full and absolute control over her

d2

and her affairs until she attains the age of
twenty-five ; I having made this stipulation so
as to provide against the highly probable contingency
that my daughter will not for a longtime
to come be fit to become mistress of so
much wealth. And I hereby make over to the
said Edwin Farquhar all and whole my personal
estate, now belonging to me, or that may have
accrued, or may yet accuse, to be held by him
as trustee for my said daughter, until she attains
the age of twenty-five, at which date his trusteeship
and personal guardianship shall cease.
And I hereby make over to the said Edwin
Farquhar, in the event of my daughter being
alive and likely to live, the sum of ten thousand
pounds, free of duty, the same to be paid with
the least possible delay ; and during the period
of his trusteeship he shall have the right to live
at and occupy Firnie Knowe, and be entitled to
withdraw a sufficient sum from the trust to
properly maintain the house and policies ; and,
moreover, he shall, during the aforesaid period,
withdraw from the said trust a yearly sum of
three hundred pounds, in recompense of the

trouble and responsibility he will have to incur.
And in the event of its being proved that my
daughter is dead, or if the search prove, after a
year's time, to be wholly fruitless, then I bequeath
and devise to the said Edwin Farquhar
my property of Firnie Knowe, including the
house and all its contents, together with one-half
of my monetary estate ; and the other half
shall be distributed bv him in accordance with
oral instructions given to him by me. And in
the event of my daughter's death before she
attains the age of twenty-five, or in the event
of her marriage without the full consent of her
trustee and guardian, the said Edwin Farquhar,
then the said Edwin Farquhar will act as I have
already specified in the event of his obtaining
proof of her being already dead.

This testamentary document, written to my
dictation by my friend James Turnbull, of
Coorie, in the aforesaid County of Clarendon,
has been duly signed by me at Warralong
aforesaid, on this the sixth day of July, eighteen
hundred and blank, in the presence of
the said James Turnbull and of Dr. Arthur

Dixon, who hereto subscribe their names as ;
witnesses.

Hew Armitage.
john Williams. y

1 James Turnbull, Witness.

Arthur Dixon, M.D., Witness.'

1 That is a very extraordinary document
remarked Dr. Steele, quietly, as Mr. Farquhar
ceased reading.

CHAPTER VII.

FAIR OR FOUL.

There was a dead silence after Dr. Steele's remark,
save for the rustling sound of the paper as
Mr. Farquhar refolded it and placed it on the
table beside him.

Yes,' at last said Dr. Steele, ' it is a very
strange statement, and very strangely worded.
As a man of business, who must accordingly
have seen many legal documents, Hew Armytage
must have decidedly changed before he
wrote this statement here. He was always
remarkably lawyer-like in his written directions
about anything, and I am certain he would
either have worded this statement in more legal
fashion, or else have written it more simply — a
dying statement, and nothing further.'

A frown had settled on the handsome features
of Mr. Farquhar, but he smiled slightly — and it
was curious how unpleasant an expression his
face took on then — as he said, looking towards
Dr. Steele,

And pray, sir, what is the conclusion you
draw?'

1 simply give as my opinion, sir, that this
document is not worded in the way I should
have thought Mr. Hew Armitage would have
done it. I do not say he did not do it. Of course,
he was very ill and weak, and I know too well
how slack the mental grasp often is at the last.'

Well, Mr. Armitage, as the person most
closely concerned after Miss Lora herself, may I
ask you what is your opinion V

I think, with my friends here, that the document
is a very strange one, but once convinced
of its verity — and I have, of course, no reason
to doubt it — I would be willing to hand over to
you the management of the trust. But you will
understand, Mr. Farquhar, that I must, of course,
be satisfied as to the genuineness of this document.'


1 1 should certainly advise Miss Armitage,' interposed
Sir John, 'to protest against the arrangement.
Things are wholly different from what
her father supposed might be the case. Neither
she nor her future husband '

'Her future husband?' said Farquhar, in a
sharp tone. l What do you mean V

Miss Armitage is engaged to be married to a
young friend of ours — an artist — Mr. Edward
Duncan by name,'

1 1 cannot consent to this,' cried out Mr. Farquhar,
in a strangely excited manner, that looked
as if he had suddenly lost control of his better
judgment.

Before anyone could reply to this strange and
emphatic statement, Lora rose, and, looking
straight in her new guardian's face, spoke with
considerable hauteur.

I do not understand you, sir ? You forbid
my engagement to Mr. Duncan? Pray, what
have you got to do with it ? Understand at
once, Mr. Farquhar, that if the law does constitute
you my legal guardian it gives you no
other authority over me. In any circumstances,

I refuse to leave my kind friends here till I see
fit myself, or until they themselves request it,
and would not for a moment hear of living at
Firnie with you alone ; and that I Avill not for a
moment put up with any interference in my
private affairs.'

An unpleasant smile flickered around Mr. Farquhar's
lips as he listened, but when he spoke
he had evidently regained his control.

4 1 spoke hastily, and I ask your pardon.
Your father had dwelt longingly on certain plans
of his own concerning you, and, as his agent, I
spoke decisively, but without reflection. Of
course I would never think of interfering with
you, my dear ward. And now, Lady Ramsay,
Miss Lora, and gentlemen, I wish you good-evening.
I shall call on you tomorrow, Mr.
Armitage, if you will be so good as to tell me
the time and place that will suit you best.'

Having received the information in question,
Mr. Farquhar bowed himself out ; and his absence
was followed by much discussion.

Lady Ramsay, and Maxwell Armitage, and
Lora herself were all satisfied that Mr. Farquhar's

story was true. Sir John felt a little
uncertain, and wished some inquiries to be made,
while Dr. Steele remained openly sceptical.

The man is either deceiving us or is himself
deceived,' he maintained, * and you will see that
I am right.'

After much discussion, it was arranged that
the document was nominally to be looked
on as indisputable, but, as a matter of business,
it was not to be carried out in full until satisfactory
evidence as to its genuineness was
obtained from Australia ; meanwhile Mr. Armytage
would advance the sum of one thousand
pounds to Mr. Farquhar, and he would be permitted
to reside at Firnie Knowe for a few
weeks, so as to become acquainted with the
property and the neighbourhood, but he was to
have no control of any kind over Lora. Of
course, as soon as confirmation came from
Australia, everything now managed by Mr.
Armitage would be handed over to the rightful
trustee, and Lora could marry as soon as she
liked ; for, added her cousin, he would willingly
advance her a certain sum yearly, to be repaid

at her twenty-fifth birthday, if for any reason
her guardian should act unpleasantly in the
matter. * He cannot, of course, prevent your
marriage,' he said, ; after you have attained
the age of twenty-one ; and until that event
you can stay either with the Ramsay s or
myself

When next day Mr. Farquhar called on Mr.
Maxwell Armitage, he seemed very much put
out at the proposed arrangement, regarding it
as a personal slight, an insult to his honour, and
such as no gentleman could be supposed to
endure. But gradually Mr. Armitage brought
him to see its reasonableness, winding up with
the remark that in six or seven months at most
confirmatory intelligence would arrive from
Australia, and that it was not very long to wait
till then : while, as to the sum of money bequeathed,
the thousand pounds to be advanced
represented double the amount of interest he
would be likely to obtain thereupon.

The document is signed by Hew Armitage,
and no one seems for a moment to dispute the
genuineness of the signature,' objected Mr. Farquhar,

sullenly ; ' it seems to me that you are
legally bound to give way.'

It may be so, and you are of course at perfect
liberty to try if the law would be on your
side. But I am bound to say that we would
dispute it to our utmost.'

I will let you know my decision tomorrow.
Meanwhile, I may content myself with saying
that if my poor dead friend knew the unworthy
way I was being treated it would cause him
genuine grief and anger.'

Mr. Armitage did not expect that Mr. Farquhar
would yield, and he very strongly
doubted if any legal judgment would set aside
his claim ; and he was correspondingly surprised
when next day Mr. Farquhar called and announced
that he thought the better of his
determination.

1 still think I am not being treated well, and
I am sure you will feel deeply mortified when
you are at last satisfied. But the truth of the
matter is that the last of my fortune is almost
gone, and that I have no means of gaining a
living here if by ill chance a legal decision

should be given against me. I tell you this
frankly, for otherwise I should not fail to
assert my just claims.'

And so the matter was settled to the satisfaction
of all concerned, save Mr. Farquhar himself.
He took rooms in Princes Street, and gradually
became an almost daily visitor to Grant Square.
He often spoke of going down to Firnie Knowe,
but made no attempt to do so, confessing at
last that he preferred waiting till the expected
news came from over the sea. With Lora he
was seen so often, and gradually became so
familiar, that, much to the chagrin of the Ram-says,
it got bruited abroad that in all probability
the handsome guardian would some day marry
his ward. At last Lora herself began to notice
that his attentions were becoming too marked,
and she endeavoured to let her pseudo-guardian
see that she did not care for such a degree of
affectionate attention.

But in course of time it became evident to all
save Lora herself that Mr. Farquhar had gained
considerable ascendancy over her, if he had not
actually won her daughter-like affection. As a

companion, no one could be more brilliant when
he chose, and to the young girl there was an
endless fascination in his tales of Australia and
Australian life, and of the father whom she had
never known. By the end of two months, Mr.
Farquhar had become to her a type of all that
was generous and chivalric, and, to her great
delight, she saw that at last the Ramsay tacitly
admitted that their vague distrustfulness had
been unfounded.

On one or two occasions Lora was surprised,
and rendered vaguely uneasy, by something her
father's friend said or did. Twice he had spoken
of places abroad — Paris and Homburg — as if he
knew them intimately, and yet he had always
asserted that since he was a boy he had spent
all his mature years in Australia ; but, on the
other hand, when she had gravely drawn his
attention to his statements he seemed in nowise
discomposed, and had explained that he had
been in these places with his father when very
young, and that they had left an extraordinarily
keen impression upon him. On the last
occasion Lora was considerably more startled.

Mr. Farquhar had been absent from Edinburgh
for a week or more, having accepted an invitation
to stay with Mr. Maxwell Armitage at
his fine property near North Queensferry, and on
the eve of his return he was dining at Grant
Square. After dinner, and while Sir John,
Lady Ramsay, Mr. Farquhar, and herself were
sitting chatting in the firelight, dusky drawing-room,
a telegram was brought to the first.

I'm afraid you have received bad news, John,'
said his wife, anxiously.

Yes, dear. Poor Maxwell Armitage ! I
don't understand it at all. He always seemed
to me in the enjoyment of the most vigorous
health, and used to boast that he had the lungs
and heart of a war-horse. This telegram is
from his wife, telling me that he wants to seeme,
as he is sinking rapidly from some mysterious
malady.'

While Sir John was speaking Lora had, without
intention, glanced at their visitor. She distinctly
saw a sudden gleam come into his eyes,
and a smile wreathe round his thin lips,
but the next moment this vanished, and he expressed

the utmost concern on behalf of his late
host.

This incident impressed Lora most unpleasantly,
and it was only by forcing herself to
put her vague mistrust into words that she
realised how unjust she had been, and bitterly
reproached herself for her uncharitableness.

Early next morning Sir John left town for his
friend's country residence. Mr. Farquhar had
informed him the night before that he had
noticed how out of sorts Mr. Armitage had
appeared, and that he had inferred from something
the latter had said that his business affairs
were in a troublesome state.

I hope not, I'm sure,' Sir John had replied ;
yet I know how careless and easy-going Maxwell
is. I know he was in trouble some time
ago, but I understood that everything was
square again. It would not do for anything material
to go wrong, for all I have in the world in
the way of accumulated savings is in his hands.'

Mr. Farquhar had offered to go down to
Queensferry with him, but he had courteously
declined.

VOL. III. E

When Sir John returned that night it was with
serious news.

Poor Armitage is dead,' he told his wife and
Lora; 'dead before I reached him. His wife,
poor soul, is in utmost distress, not being able
to realise that the strong and vigorously robust
man who was her husband had succumbed so
rapidly to some mysterious internal complaint.
Lora, my dear, he tried to leave some message
for you, for me to give to you, but he died without
being able to express it.'

Next morning a letter came which caused the
ruddy, genial face of the artist to grow suddenly
pale. All at table saw something unpleasant
had occurred, but no remark was made by
his wife till she entered the studio with her
husband.

Ask Lora to come also,' he said. * Margaret,
I have received bad news indeed. The doctors
agree that poor Armitage has died not from any
internal complaint, but from the administration
of poison.'

Poison !' exclaimed Lady Ramsay, in a
horrified tone.

Yes, poison. But they seem to think that
there has been no foul play in the matter ; in a
word, they believe that he administered it to
himself, for in his desk one of the first things
they found was a small piece of crumpled
paper to which still adhered one or two minute
specks of the fatal powder — a desk which he
always kept locked, and the key of which was
appended to his watch-chain. His wife had
opened this desk in their presence, under the
impression that some letter from her husband
would be found.'

6 How horrible for her in every way. Poor
thing, she may yet be even suspected of having
herself given her husband the poison.'

Well, there can only be two opinions held.
Either that some one poisoned him — and in this
case it must have been a slow and systematic
attempt, for he had been ailing and growing
steadily worse for some days past — or else that
he poisoned himself. A single dose of arsenic
would point to the latter, but the slow poisoning
suggests the former. If he did do away
with himself, it must have been on account of

E 2

LIBRARY
iimiui Term

impending ruin ; and, selfishly, I hope this is not
the case, for you know, Margaret, that the savings
of the last thirty years were in poor
Maxwell's hands.'

f When did the symptoms of his mysterious
illness first show themselves V asked Lora,
quietly, but in a constrained voice.

About six days ago.'

'Three days, then, after Mr. Farquhar became
a resident at HeathclifFe'?'

No one answered, but all three looked
strangely at one another.

4 When was his last bad turn before his death T
resumed Lora.

Between five and six of the afternoon of the
day before yesterday is the time mentioned in
this letter from my friend, Dr. Montgomerie.'

That is, an hour or less after Mr. Farquhar
left HeathclifFe, and came to dinner here V

6 What do you mean, Lora V demanded Lady
Ramsay, shortly. ' Have you reason to suspect
anything? If not, you have no right to give
rise to the inferences we must draw from your
words

I have no reason to suspect anything : I am
only struck by the coincidences I have referred
to.'

Mr. Farquhar,' announced the servant at that
moment.

6 Good-evening, Lady Ramsay ; good-evening,
Sir John. Lora, I am sorry to see you looking
so pale. Well, my friends, this is, indeed, a sad
affair. I can assure you I have received quite a
shock. Of course I did not know Mr. Armitage
very intimately, but after being a guest in a
man's house for a week, and almost immediately
afterwards to hear of his death, startles
one.'

< It is strange, Mr. Farquhar,' said Lora, ' that
you said nothing to Lady Ramsay or myself,
or, so far as I know, to Sir John either, about
the state in which you left poor Mr. Armitage.
You spoke of your Visit and the place itself,
and Mrs. Armitage, but you did not refer to Mr.
Armitage.'

Mr. Farquhar shot a sharp glance at the
speaker when she first addressed him, but when
she had finished he replied quietly that she

could not have heard him, for he had mentioned
how unwell his host had seemed, but that he
did not enlarge upon the subject because of the
great aversion manifested by Mr. Armitage himself
to any mention of his indisposition.

4 1 ventured to speak to him about it, and
urged him to see a doctor, but he wouldn't hear
of such a thing, and at last I saw it was no use
to interfere.'

I wonder why you did not speak to Mrs.
Armitage?' said Lady Ramsay.

6 1 wish now that I had done so, but, as I
have already said, I thought it was no use to
interfere.'

Have you heard the cause of his death V
asked Sir John.

6 Yes ; it is most mysterious. 1 heard vaguely
about it yesterday afternoon, but 1 could not
believe it, so I went over to Queensferry in the
evening, and ventured to inquire. I did not see
Mrs. Armitage, but I heard what the doctors
surmised. I left a brief note for the poor widow,
and came straight here.'

I am going there now,' said Sir John, * and

I — bother ! there's some one else being shown
here.'

This is a groom, Sir John, from Mr. Armytage's.'


'I have come up with this note from Dr.
Montgomerie, sir, and with a message from Mrs.
Armitage to know if you can come to Queensferry
at once.'

1 My dear Sir John,' ran the note, ' there can
now be little doubt that I am in the right in
supposing poor Armitage to have put an end to
himself. This morning I and Dr. Brooks entered
the room where he lies— and behind the bedstead
and the wall, where it had evidently
fluttered in falling from the corner of the dress-unstable,
I saw a piece of paper. It was a half-sheet,
with the owner's crest and address on it,
bearing the words, " Everything is going wrong ;
I can stand it no longer. — M. A." This is fairly
conclusive proof that his business affairs have
been going wrong, and that they unsettled his
judgment to such an extent that he committed
this unfortunate act. In my opinion he hoped

to make it appear as if his death arose from
some internal trouble, that thus he poisoned
himself slowly, but that only at the last he
realised he would be unable to hide the truth,
and so wrote that note. Poor Mrs. A. is in
great distress, and seems very anxious to see
you. Yours in haste,

A. Montgomery.'

I will go down at once. Mr. Farquhar,
pray excuse me, and also my not asking you
to come back to dinner to-night. If you will
call about this time tomorrow, I shall be glad
to see you, as there are certain matters we must
talk over.'

When Sir John reached Heathcliffe he found
Dr. Montgomerie in attendance upon Mrs. Armytage,
who had almost succumbed to the shock
of her husband's death. After some conversation
on the matter, Dr. Montgomerie resumed
the subject of the paper that had been found.

Don't you think I am right in my supposition,
Sir John? Strange to say, neither Dr.
Brooks nor Mrs. Armitage shares my view. The

latter declares that, though she knew her husband
was anxious about the aspect of his business
affairs, he was not seriously worrying
himself about them ; and, moreover, that she is
certain no such paper was in the room on the
night of his death or the morning following, for
that she would inevitably have seen it. Brooks
also seems suspicious of something ; he knows
that Maxwell Armitage had one serious failing,
and that was his susceptibility to the charms
of any pretty jade who put herself in his way.
He seems to have been carrying on a mild
flirtation with a girl in the house, but either
his good feeling or some remonstrance from his
wife made him draw back in time, and Brooks
seems to have suspicions that the girl has been
revenging herself. As he says, there is no one
else to suspect, save Mrs. Armitage and Mr.
Farquhar. Of course the guilt of the first is
out of the question, and no possible motive can
be discovered for a perfect strangers having
committed such an act

Sir John did not feel so sure about this,
remembering the disappointment Mr. Farquhar

had had to put up with in connection with the
will of Hew Armitage.

Brooks has very kindly gone into Dundee to
find out how affairs stand there. He will be
back very shortly.'

When Sir John saw the widow she begged of
him that she might become the guest of himself
and Lady Ramsay for a little, as she could not
bear to be at Heathcliffe now.

Of course, dear Mrs. Armitage. You will be
most welcome.'

4 There is one thing — there is one thing, Sir
John, I must ask — though, perhaps, I have no
right to do so. And that is, I beg of you that
you will excuse my meeting Mr. Farquhar at
your house. I cannot tell you how much I
dislike the man. I believe he has helped Maxwell
towards his ruin. One day — the day after
he came — I heard him telling my husband about
some miraculous new investment, some Australian
thing, for the value of which he could vouch,
and which he fully believed would turn out the
greatest thing in the world. Poor Maxwell was
always very credulous in these things, and I

know that lie followed Mr. Farquhar's advice,
probably to lose — if he had not already lost — all
the money which he put into it. But it is not for
this alone that I dislike the man. I disliked him
from the first, and can't bear him to be near me.
I do not believe that my husband poisoned himself
; I do not believe he feared any disasters
that might come upon us. He was not a coward,
either physically or morally.'

'Then what do you think, Mrs. Armitage V

6 1 dare not say what I think. Ah, there is
Dr. Brooks' voice.'

Shortly afterwards Dr. Brooks, a small, thin,
wiry man, with an expression of excessive alertness,
came into the room.

I do not bring good news, Mrs. Armitage, I
am sorry to say. Ah, Sir John Kamsay, I had
the pleasure of meeting you once years ago, and
am glad to resume the brief acquaintance then
made. Most sincerely I regret to have to tell
you, madam, that your late husband's affairs
are in the greatest confusion ; indeed, the offices
are closed, and the evening papers are calling
out another great failure. It is best you should

know it, though perhaps you may not thank me
for putting it to you so abruptly. But I may
frankly state that, up to my going into Dundee,
I had suspected foul play somewhere in the
matter of poor Mr. Armitage's death, a suspicion
which I know you shared ; but now I am convinced
that I was wholly mistaken, and that
Montgomerie's view was the right one

It was accepted that Maxwell Armitage had
committed suicide while in an unsound state of
mind, it having naturally been held that a man
in the prime of life, and circumstanced as he
was, must needs have been half-mad before he
could have put an end to himself, even under
the dread of impending bankruptcy.

But his widow was not the only sufferer, for
all the life-long savings of Sir John Ramsay
were lost in the general smash. It was a great
blow to him and his wife, for with a large
family his expenses were constantly increasing,
and already both he and his wife had become
anxious about the future of their boys; and,
though he could still depend upon making a

good income yearly, his health was no longer
robust, and he knew that, if he died now, he
would have to leave his wife and daughters
almost penniless. Lora's property, of which Maxwell
Armitage had kept such loyal stewardship,
was unharmed, and she was the only person
who came out of the general ruin without
loss.

Immediately after the funeral, Mrs. Armitage
returned with Sir John to Grant Square. She
had literally nothing in the world belonging to
her, for her own property had not been sufficiently
secured, and had been lost with the rest,
and, though there was some hope that eventually
she might recover something, she would
have nothing for a long time to come. It was
a sad party which sat grouped in the firelight
studio the evening of the day on which Maxwell
Armitage had been laid in his grave.
Sir John and Lady Ramsay were very despondent,
Mrs. Armitage was overcome with grief
and the shock of the abrupt change in her
fortunes, Helen Ramsay and Lora spoke in
whispers.

At last the latter rose and went over to the
poor widow.

Dear Mrs. Armitage, I want yon to let me
do something. Will yon promise V

1 What do you want, my dear V

6 You know how noble and loyal and generous
your husband was in the matter of his stewardship
over my property. Well, the very least
thing I could do, as some slight acknowledgment
of the great wealth he has so carefully
husbanded for me, is to gladly insist on your
accepting a portion of it, so that you may not
be dependent upon others. Hush ! You must
not remonstrate. You know how wealthy I
shall be in a few months hence, and that whatever
I make over to you — and I do not consider
it a gift, but an acknowledgment — I will in no
sense miss ; you know also that I and Edward
Duncan were to have been married on his
return from Australia on a very small income,
and that anything additional I bring will be
quite unexpected.'

Mrs. Armitage threw her arms round Lora's
neck, but was unable to speak from emotion.

Dear Mrs. Armitage,' said Sir John, 'Lora is
just doing what we should all have expected
her to do. She is a dear, generous girl, but she
could not well do less — that is, being Lora
Armitage. And, meanwhile, you must make
your home with us.'

The door opened as he finished speaking, and
Mr. Farquhar came in and shook hands with all
in the room save with Mrs. Armitage, who
closed her eyes and lay back on the sofa.

My dear Mrs. Armitage, I trust I see you ina
little better health now that you are among
good friends and in a house that is almost a
home to you V

No answer came from the recumbent figure
on the sofa.

Ah, 1 see. She is asleep or tired out. Poor
Mrs. Armitage.'

Keep your pity to yourself, Edwin Farquhar,'
cried the widow, with abrupt vehemence. ' I
never wish to hold converse with you again,
and I request you once and for all to remember
whenever we meet that I am not only a stranger
to you, but one who wishes to remain a stranger.'

'Very good, Mrs. Armytage was the reply, ina
cold, quiet tone, ' though I am at a loss to
understand the reason of your not over-courteous
frankness.'

You understand well enough, and now pray
address me no further.'

Farquhar bowed, while a nervous twitch at
his mouth showed how great an effort he was
making to restrain himself.

I have called to inform you, Lora, that I
have been legally installed your guardian and
trustee. I have looked through the accounts
kept by Mr. Maxwell Armitage, and I find everything
satisfactory. I will call here tomorrow
forenoon to talk over certain matters with you.
And now I Avill say good-night.'

One moment, Mr. Farquhar,' said Lora. ' 1
will see you out, if you will permit me. I have
something I want to say to you at once.'

As soon as Lora and her guardian reached
the ground floor, the former opened the door of
the library and beckoned her companion to
follow.

Mr. Farquhar, when you come back tomorrow,

I want the sum of eight hundred
pounds.'

Do you, indeed, Lora,' said Mr. Farquhar,
with the faintest echo of mockery in his voice,
yet not so faint but that his ward noticed it.
That is a large sum of money to want all at
once. You have a good allowance already,
especially as Sir John has never taken anything
for your board. Of course, if your personal expenses
exceed your income, I will see to its
being increased. But, as your trustee, my
dear Lora, I could not feel myself justified in
advancing you a large sum without, in the first
place, understanding what it was for, and, in the
next, approving.'

Lora flushed, but checked herself on the
point of giving back an angry answer.

I have no objection, Mr. Farquhar, to tell
you what I want the money for ; but I certainly
do not recognise your right to decide as to the
propriety of any judgment I may hold and intend
to fulfil. I wish the sum in question, because
it is my intention to allow Mrs. Armitage
a yearly sum of eight hundred pounds, in some

VOL. III. F

slight acknowledgment of all that I am indebted
to her late husband for ; she is left absolutely
penniless, poor thing. As I am not to have control
of my property till I am twenty-five, I cannot,
I suppose, make over to her the necessary
capital, but I wish this sum to be annually allowed
to her in the meantime. So I want four hundred
pounds as a half-year's payment in advance.
Then I wish to give a hundred pounds to the
old housekeeper at HeathclifFe. She has lost
her place after being thirty years in the service
of her late master and his father before him,
and she is anxious to live quietly in the country
the rest of her days. She has enough to live
upon, if she had no rent to pay, and as I know
of a little cottage at North Queensferry, costing
about seventy pounds and not requiring much
doing up, I have determined to take it for her.
And, thirdly, I can no longer consent to be a
burden on my dear friends, the Ramsay,
especially after the heavy loss they have sustained
in the failure. So I will insist on them
accepting the sum of three hundred a-year for
my board and for all the innumerable things

they do for me. That, you see, makes up the
sum of eight hundred pounds.'

Well, Lora, I will say good-night now, and
will think your proposals over.'

Think them over, Mr. Farquhar % Now that
you see the money is to be well spent, I do not
see what you can have to say.'

Eight hundred pounds is a sum not always
to be obtained at once.'

1 Oh, of course a day or two makes no
difference.'

'Well, we will see. Good-night, Lora.'

I want to understand, Mr. Farquhar, whether
you are going to help me to what I want or
not?'

I will see how matters stand, Lora ; I
can say nothing more till I have gone carefully
into the accounts, and till I can be
assured that withdrawal of such a sum would
not necessitate selling out some well-invested
stock.'

4 Oh, what do I care about losing some trilling
percentage 1 I'm not a pauper — I'm not ina
position where a change from six per cent, to

F2

four per cent, means privation, or even noticeable
difference. Be assured I will never call
you to account for such a thing as this.'

'Good-night, now. I will see you tomorrow.'


Mr. Farquhar, why won't you give me an
answer?'

Lora, you do not understand these things.
1 will act on your behalf as I think best.
Meanwhile oblige me by saying nothing either
to Mrs. Armitage or Sir John or Lady Ramsay
about your very generous but somewhat high-flown
intentions. Good-night again.'

After Mr. Farquhar had gone, Lora stayed a
while in the library, the tears of indignation
and surprise falling down her flushed cheeks.

I hate that man !' she muttered. ' I wonder
how I could ever have endured him. But
I won't allow him to domineer over memor
one thing, I am glad I have told Mrs. Armitage
already.'

Before she went to bed she went into Lady
Ramsay's room, and told her of the arrangement
she had made. Lady Ramsay at first protested

against the amount, but Lora pointed out that
it would not do more than cover expenses from
the time she had left Oban with her friends till
next autumn, when Edward would be home,
and when they would be married.

Next day Mr. Farquhar came at the appointed
hour, and was shown into the library, where Lora
was awaiting him.

Have you arranged, as I asked you V she
began, the moment the first greetings were
over.

I have arranged that you should have a
certain sum for the charitable purposes mentioned,
but not what you, in your excess of
generosity, desired. Even if 1 wished — that is,
even if I approved of the expenditure, I do not
see how the sum you mentioned last night could
be conveniently raised at present. I bring you
one hundred and fifty pounds.'

One hundred and fifty ! 1 fail to understand
your meaning.'

< Well, on thinking the matter over, I quite
agree with you that the Ramsay should be
remunerated for your board. But one hundred

and fifty a-year is an ample sum to allow for this
purpose, seeing that you discharge all your
ordinary expenses yourself.'

It is not enough.'

4 1 am the best judge of that, Lora. Well,
half of one hundred aud fifty pounds is seventy
five, and this amount you can pay to Sir
John, or, better still, leave me to do so, as I
must have his receipt therefor. Then, as to the
Armitages' housekeeper, I consider that your
purchasing the cottage is quixotic. You can doit
up and rent it for the old woman, if you want,,
and for this I have brought you twenty-five
pounds instead of the one hundred pounds you
wanted. Lastly, as to Mrs. Armytage : I cannot
consent to your burdening yourself with her
maintenance. After you are twenty-five, you
may do as you like, but, until then, your affairs-are
under my charge, and I cannot consent to
this quite absurd proposal of yours. Mrs. Armytage
has relations, I presume, and they can look
after her. Moreover, it is almost certain that
she will ultimately get back a little of her own
property. But, as you wish to make her a present

in return for her husband not having
criminally squandered your fortune, I don't
object to you giving her a fifty pound note.
These are the three items — seventy-five, twenty-five,
and fifty pounds — that makes up the hundred
and fifty I have brought you.'

Lora had kept her clear, dark-blue eyes fixed
steadily on those of Mr. Farquhar as he spoke,
and slowly her lips had curved in a scornful
smile as he went on. When he had finished she
looked at him from head to foot, an angry flush
passing rapidly across her face.

I consider your communication most insulting,
Mr. Farquhar. I will consult Sir John
Ramsay and Dr. Steele as to what means are
necessary to protest against your authority, and,
in any case, there can be no doubt you can be
prevented from acting as trustee till confirmatory
evidence comes from Australia.'

Don't talk nonsense, Lora,' said her guardian,
angrily. * I am legally your trustee, and nothing
can affect my position. You will only make
things more unpleasant for yourself. But I am
willing to accede to your request if you will

accede to one of mine. I will give you the
money you want for Mrs. Armitage and the
HeathclifFe housekeeper, and even for the
Kansas, if you will take up house at Firnie
Knowe. You can have anyone as a companion
whom you would like, and I promise that
you could have no kinder guardian than I would
be.'

'I have already told yon, sir, that on no
account would I consent to any such arrangement
— less now than ever. I shall stay with
the Kansas till my twenty-first birthday, which
is not so very far off now ; and then, as soon as
I am married, I shall live with my husband at
Firnie Knowe.'

'Ah, that reminds me, Lora, I have made
inquiries concerning Mr. Edward Duncan, and
the result is that I must emphatically forbid your
marriage with that gentleman. From this time
forward you must consider the engagement at
an end

Are you mad, Mr. Farquhar ? Do you think
I for one moment care whether you approve of
my engagement or not. Your approval is a

matter of absolute indifference to me, and I shall
marry Mr. Duncan as soon as he asks me. You
forget that by the time he returns I shall be
legally of age. As for the insulting remarks you
have made against him personally, I can only
say that I don't believe you know anything
about Mr. Duncan.'

For one thing, I may mention that I have
just been affording a little relief to a poor girl
who came to sorrow and disgrace through your
friend Mr. Duncan. I saw her shivering in the
bitter cold two or three nights ago in a street
off Princes Street, hugging her baby to her
arms, and too wretched even to beg. I gave
her something, and, to my surprise, she burst
into tears, and then told me her story, a sad one
of treacherous seduction and cruel desertion.
Mechanically I asked her the name of the villain,
and she told me his name was Edward
Duncan, and that he was an artist, and that he
had recently left Edinburgh for Australia and
left her to her fate. As I did not wish this to
get bruited about, for your sake, I gave her all
the money I had with me, and told her it was

because I knew Duncan, and that I was glad to
be able to do even this small reparation.'

I do not believe you.'

■ Lora !'

« I repeat, I do not believe you. You who
have just refused to assist poor Mrs. Armitage,
whose husband you helped towards his ruin, are
not a likely person to have been so generous to
a street outcast.'

It is you who are insulting now — most insulting.'


Moreover, I don't believe one word of the
girl's story !'

What object could she have in giving me
Mr. Duncan's name V

4 1 don't know. But this I do know — and the
fact is one you will find somewhat difficult to
reconcile with the accusation you have seen fit
to make — that Edward Duncan has lived in
Paris and London for the last few years, and
that the brief yearly holiday he allowed himself
in Scotland was invariably spent with the Ram-says
at Oban. He has not been in Edinburgh
for some five or six years. I think I am justified

in saying that I do not believe one word of
what you have told me.'

I will not speak to you again, Lora, till you
have apologised for your undutiful and disrespectful
behaviour, and to punish you I will not
even leave this money with you just now ' —
and, saying this, Mr. Farquhar took up the roll
of notes he had put on the table, and left the
room.

CHAPTER VIII.

A FALSE MOVE.

Very excited and angry, indeed, did Lora
Armitage feel when Farqukar had left the
room, and she found herself alone. Her first
impulse was to go to Sir John Ramsay, but she
remembered that he and Dr. Steele had gone
somewhere for the day. The rest of the household
she knew to be out, so, after some deliberation,
she put on her things and went round to
pay a long call to Mrs. Stuart, at whose house
she met with the most genial welcome.

Late in the evening she returned to Grant
Square, but found that Sir John had not yet
returned, and that Lady Ramsay and Helen
were dining out. After dinner the boys left the

house, and the little ones went to bed, and
Lora for the first time was left alone. She felt
very dull and depressed, and would gladly have
gone upstairs and sat by Mrs. Armitage, who
had been very unwell for the last two days, but
that she was told the latter had at last fallen
asleep, and should on no account be disturbed.

Taking a book in her hand, she sat before the
fire in the drawing-room, and at last fell into an
uneasy slumber.

A number of strange, fragmentary dreams
flitted through her passive mind, all of them
vaguely distressing, but none realistic enough
to waken her. But at last they became more
coherent and unpleasant. She dreamed that
she entered a house filled with innumerable
rooms, looking into every one of which she saw
a slim man clad all in black and with averted
face — always the same man, but constantly in
some new position, yet invariably engaged in
doing the same thing — dropping something,
now into a glass, now into a cup, now into a
medicine phial. The action became horribly
suggestive to her, and yet she did not realise

what it was suggestive of. But at last it
seemed to her that in the hundredth room she
saw the same man unfolding a piece of paper,
and that on this paper was a label bearing the
word POISON. Looking at the man with a
sudden dread, he turned round and showed to
her the face of her guardian. With a cry she
awoke, only to find that she had been dreaming.
Was she really awake, was the thought
that flashed through her mind the next moment,
for there on the hearth-rug before her stood Mr.
Farquhar, leaning against the mantel-piece and
looking at her. But a slight movement convinced
her, and she rose up from the low chair
into which she had sunk with her book.

Mr. Farquhar ! I am surprised to see you
here. When did you come in ? I did not hear
you. I have been asleep.'

'Yes, and you looked so pretty in your
sleep, Lora — pretty, indeed ! you looked lovely,
beautiful.'

You had no right to stare at me while I lay
there unconscious. It was not the act of a
gentleman. You should have awakened me
when you came in.'

Lor a, I came to ask your pardon for the too
authoritative way I spoke to you this morning,
and also for having denied you what you
want.'

Very good, but what about that story of the
outcast you told me?'

Lora, I swear it was true. I was too offended
to tell you that the girl had followed
him from London. I have her address, and you
can make inquiries yourself.'

I will not believe a single thing against Mr.
Duncan, and if he were here just now and asked
me to marry him 1 would so without asking in
return a single question about this girl you tell
me of.'

You must not dream of marrying that man.
You must make inquiries after what I have told
you.'

'Mr. Farquhar, please understand once and
for all that I decline to discuss the question with
you now or at any other time.'

'Lora, darling Lora, don't you understand,'
cried Mr. Farquhar, suddenly, leaning close to
her as he spoke.

She did not answer, but gazed at him like
some fascinated creature.

Lora, my beautiful Lora, I don't want to be
your guardian — I want your love — I want you
to be my wife.'

Still Lora stood gazing with wide-opened
eyes, as if hearkening to something she would
have deemed impossible.

Mr. Farquhar put his arm round her waist,
and before she could resist he had drawn her
close to him, and was passionately kissing her
lips.

1 Lora — Lora — my darling — I love you ! Your
sweet lips are like fire to me. Say that you love
me, or I will kill myself !'

Leaning back in his arms, Lora struck him
with all her strength full in the face.

Traitor and coward, let me go ! How dare
you — how dare you insult me thus !'

Farquhar staggered back, less from the force
of the blow than because of the fierce struggling
of the girl to get out of his arms.

She sprang away from him and across to the
side of the fireplace where there was a bell,

which she rang energetically. Almost immediately
a servant appeared.

Jane, Mr. Farquhar wants a cab called.
And now good-evening, sir. I must go upstairs
to see Mrs. Armitage.'

6 All right, Jane,' said Mr. Farquhar, quietly ;
you needn't wait. I'll come as soon as you
have called the cab. And now, Lora '

Do not call me by that name. I am Miss
Armitage to you.'

You do wrong to despise me for loving you.'

I do not despise you for loving me or anyone,
but I do despise you for being a liar and a
coward.'

You take more after your father than your
mother,' was Farquhar s rejoinder, in a bitter
tone.

What do you know about my mother ?'

'Never mind just now. Do you refuse to
listen to me, Lora?'

My name, I tell you again, is Miss Armitage.
Yes, I do refuse.'

I will give you one week in which to think
over things, and to change your mind if you are

VOL. III. G

wise ; at the end of that time you must decide,
and as you decide so will your future be —
whether you are to be rich and enjoy life, or be
penniless, or next door to it. Meanwhile I shall
reside at Firnie Knowe, and there I shall await
your decision. Remember ! I do not threaten
you — I simply advise you. Good-bye till this
day week.'

Coward !' was all the answer Lora vouchsafed,
as Mr. Farquhar turned and left the room,
his furtive smile lurking round his thin, delicate
lips.

After he had gone she thought over all that
had happened, but, after much consideration, she
came to the conclusion that it would in every-way
be wiser for her to await the course of events
than to try to force conclusions. She now felt
convinced that, if she exposed Mr. Farquhar' s
conduct, it might enable him to retaliate by a
legal insistence on his rights as a guardian,
while, if she did nothing in the meantime, her
friends Sir John and Dr. Steele might be able
to have his guardianship annulled, and her
property put into Chancery, rather than remain

sunder his control. She determined, however,
that she would let her immediate friends at any
rate see that some breach had been made in
the good feeling between Mr. Farquhar and
herself.

While she was still thinking over all that had
transpired, burning with indignation against
Mr. Farquhar on account of his aspersions
against her lover, and for his unjustifiable conduct
towards herself, Sir John returned, and
almost at the same moment his wife and daughter
came in also.

Why, Lora dear,' exclaimed Lady Ramsay,
have you been sitting here all alone 1 But,
my dear, you have been crying — what has been
the matter ? Why are you so excited and so
trembling, Lora V

1 Dear Lady Ramsay, do you remember the
request that Mrs. Armitage made when she came
here V

You mean, I suppose, as to not being asked
to meet Mr. Farquhar 1 Yes, I do.'

Well, I have to ask you the same thing. I
have no right to ask you to forbid him the

g2

house, but I do request that, if he ever asks forme,
the servant should tell him that I am not at
home to him, and that, if he should come in to
see yon at any time, 1 may be excused leaving
the room at once.'

What has happened, Lora V asked Sir John,
eagerly.

Mr. Farquhar has grossly insulted me — so
much so that I never wish to speak to him
again. He has trumped up some shameful story
against Edward, and, not content with that, has
wholly forgotten all honourable instincts. I do
not wish to refer to the subject again, but you
must see that I am in earnest. One thing I
will say, however, rather than live at Firnie
with my guardian, I should run away from here,
disguise myself as a common woman, and obtain
service as a servant somewhere. He would
cither kill me, or force me to marry him, or ruin
my whole life — I know he would.'

Lora, Lora, you are excited, and surely are
not quite aware of what yon are saying.'

I know perfectly well what I am saying,
dear Lady Ramsay, and I mean every word of

it, and more. I dare not say all I fear about
Edwin Farquhar. But at present I do not wish
the subject referred to any more. I am to hear
from him in a week if I do not write to him
myself about something we were discussing,
and it will be time enough then to tell you certain
things that now I prefer to leave alone. 5

By-the-by, Lora,' exclaimed Sir John, ' I
must ask you one question first. As I came in
just now I found a letter that had just been
delivered. It is from your guardian, and in it
he states that, having opened a banking account
as your trustee, he will be glad to take care of
the small box of family jewels which is at
present deposited in my name in the Bank of
Scotland, and for which, as he says, he is now
responsible. He requests me accordingly to
send him a written order for its removal. I
think it would have been wiser, my dear, if
you had not told Mr. Farquhar about those
things.'

I wish I had not, Sir John ; but he was
questioning me lately about what Mrs. M'lan
had left behind her, and naturally I told him all

I could, not dreaming there could be any
reason against my doing so.'

8 Well, what do you say V

8 1 say that, if they get into Mr. Farquhar's
hands, it is very doubtful if I ever see them
again.'

8 Then, 1 tell you what we will do. I shall
remove the box tomorrow, and we will keep
them here. You can wear them occasionally,
and in the intervals I shall lock them up in
the safe in my studio. They are really as
secure there as in the bank. I will then write
to Mr. Farquhar, telling him that the jewels
in question are not in my bank, but are in your
possession, and are used by you as ornaments,
and that you certainly decline to
hand them over to him, any more than anything
else you possess. He can say nothing
then.'

CHAPTER IX.

MR. FARQUHAR VISITS FIRNIE KNOWE.

The day following his strange interview with
Lora Armitage, Mr. Farquhar wrote a brief
note to Mrs. Fyfe, housekeeper at Firnie Knowe,
announcing that tomorrow he would arrive
there for a stay of a day or two, as it was necessary
he should become personally acquainted
with certain details of his ward's property.
In due time he left Edinburgh by the Dundee
train, having first received a curt note from Sir
John Ramsay couched on the terms agreed upon
between the latter and Lora — a letter that did
not improve his temper or make him more
inclined to be courteous to Mrs. Fyfe when he
reached Firnie Knowe.

Having had to wait in town longer than he
anticipated before hearing from Sir John, he had
been unable to reach Firnie before dark, so he
saw little of the property as the gig whirled
rapidly up the long avenue and stopped before
the large, rambling old house.

Mrs. Fyfe, who met him at the hall-door with
a polite bow and a few words of welcome,
courteous, if not genial, was an elderly woman,
who bore her age remarkably well. Tall,
angular, but with keenly intelligent face lit up
by searching grey eyes that had a constant
steely glitter beneath the iron-grey hair that lay
thickly above her forehead, Mrs. Fyfe was typical
of the better class of east-coast country people :
a woman not easily to be cheated ; shrewd,
quick, caustic, trustworthy, loyal, not over companionable,
and yet by no means sour or ungenial.
She had been a maid to Mrs. Cameron,
Lora's grandmother, just before that lady was
married; had herself married a year later, and
after a few months of no great conjugal bliss
had, greatly to her relief, it must be admitted,
lost her too convivial husband ; had seen her

child born only to be placed in a tiny baby's
coffin ; had then gone as a nurse to Dmiluiart,
where Mrs. Cameron had first become the mother
of a son, and had stayed with the household till
its complete break-up after the marriage of Mona
Cameron to Hew Armitage, and the death of old
Mr. Cameron himself. After the departure of
Hew Armitage, the wife of the head gardener
had been appointed care-taker at Firnie, but as
Mr. Maxwell Armitage came to visit the place
more frequently, he found it was necessary to
have a better class of woman at the head of the
household, and so he offered the post to Mrs.
Fyfe, whose former position he knew, and whom
he highly respected. Though she was not an
old woman, she had the national, or at any
rate the east-country characteristic of having
changed little in facial features from the days
of early womanhood ; many years and the usual
sadness had, of course, left their unmistakable
marks, but anyone who had known her as a
young woman would find slight difficulty in recognising
a former acquaintance in the person of
the old housekeeper at Firnie Knowe. She had

been greatly charmed with Lora when she first
saw her, though she failed to discover in her
any very marked resemblance to her unfortunate
mother.

1 am Mrs. Fyfe, sir,' she said to Mr. Farquhar,
as the latter came into the hall, shivering with
cold after his drive, ' and I bid you welcome to
Firnie Knowe. I hope you have had a pleasant
journey from Edinburgh.'

'Pleasant! how could it be pleasant in this
infernal weather. I hate this country — people
and climate alike.'

I am sorry for that, sir,' replied Mrs. Fyfe,
drily. ' May I ask you how you left Miss Lora V

Look here, Mrs. Dice — or Mrs. Fyfe, I should
say — please show me to my room. I'm much
too cold to stand chattering here. I hope you
have remembered to light a good fire V

6 This way, sir,' responded the offended dame,
icily, and, as she spoke, she conducted the visitor
to his bed-room.

While she was lighting an extra candle or
two, Mr. Farquhar turned and looked at her
scrutinisingly.

8 Let me see ; you weren't over at the
Maxwell Armitage's place, HeathclifFe, lately,
were you? T seem to know your face, and
yet I cannot recollect having seen you anywhere.'


No, sir, I have not been away from here,
save in the village, for many months past.'

Ah, then, I suppose I am mistaken. I suppose
my face is quite unfamiliar to you.'

Mrs. Fyfe shot a quick, searching glance in his
direction, hesitated a moment, and then remarked
that she did not know him.

I will go down now, sir, and see that your
dinner is ready. Anything else I can do for
you V

No,' said Mr. Farquhar, abruptly and discourteously,
he being one of that class of people
who can be very polite to their equals, and to
their inferiors if there is some urgent reason
therefor, but who generally treat those in a
lower station with a disregard amounting to
churlish incivility.

At dinner he several times found Mrs. Fyfe's
eyes fixed curiously upon him, he being conscious

of the fact owing to a mirror that was at
the opposite side of the room to where he was
sitting.

Have yon no servant that could wait?' he
asked, abruptly. ' I don't mean that I would
rather you were away, but you are an old
woman, and you should be resting instead of
standing.'

There is no one else, sir, save a kitchen girl,
who wouldn't understand what to do, and the
cook from the Cedars, who has come over to
help me while you are here.'

Can't you cook V

1 Yes. Mr. Farquhar, I can cook.'

Then I would rather, after this, that you
presided in the kitchen, and that the cook you
speak of should wait at the table.'

Very good, sir,' replied Mrs. Fyfe, at once
surprised and indignant.

The dinner went on slowly. Once, as Mr.
Farquhar lifted a decanter and poured out
some wine into his glass, a sudden puzzled look
came into the housekeeper's keen, grey eyes,
and she fixed her gaze, intently and curiously,
on the face of her visitor.

The latter looked up and noticed it.

4 What the devil are yon looking at ? What
are you staring at me like that for V

I beg your pardon, sir. I am sorry I have
ruffled you.'

Well, don't keep staring at me in that Away.
I am very nervous, and can't bear to be
watched.'

A strange smile flickered about the strongly
grooved lines round Mrs. Fyfe's mouth, and she
made no answer.

Well, didn't you hear what I said ? Why
were you looking at me like that V

I see so few people, sir, that I suppose I lose
my manners when a stranger comes — especially
if it is in any way connected with the Armitages.
But I beg your pardon, Mr. Farquhar, and I will
try and not offend you again.'

The visitor became suddenly mollified, and
began questioning the housekeeper about the
neighbourhood and then about Dundee.

Have you never been in Dundee, sir ?' she
asked, keeping her gaze, despite her promise
not to stare, fixed intently on Mr. Farquhar's
face.

No, never. I know almost nothing of
Scotland, having spent all my life in Australia ;
but of course I have heard a good deal about
Dundee and these parts from my poor friend
Hew Armytage''

You never knew Mrs. Armitage ?'

'How could I, when she died in this country
before her husband crossed the seas? And
now, Mrs. Fyfe, I have some letters to write.
Have you the key of this escritoire here V

No, sir, but Mrs. Maxwell Armitage will give
it to yon. Her poor husband kept the keys
of all the private desks. You will find all you
need in the library, sir, where I have had a fire
lit.'

Here Mr. Farqukar adjourned, but he did not
write any letters. He sat before the fire for an
hour or more, buried in thought, occasionally
marking down a number of complicated sums on
a piece of paper. At last he got up, saying to
himself —

'I'll do it before it's too late. Better a large
bite than none at all. This kind of thing could
hardly always continue, but I'll make sure of one

thing, anyway, in case I don't succeed with that
beautiful she-devil, Lora. Curse her, I didn't
believe that 1 would care to entangle myself
with another woman, but that girl has touched
me a bit. If — if I can succeed, what splendid
openings I see before me — wealth, a beautiful
wife, and then the old, wild, glorious life, but
better far than before, at Homburg or Monaco.
And now I'll have a smoke and then go to
bed.'

At an early hour he rang the bell and informed
Mrs. Fyfe that he was ready to go upstairs.
She lit a candle and preceded him to
the bed-room, where she bade him good-night,
again scrutinising him with a strange, questioning
look which she was unable to prevent,
Mr. Farquhar noticing, but about which he
made no remark. She had said good-night
coldly, and had not proceeded far along
the passage before she heard herself called
back.

Mr. Farquhar had not before noticed that at
the other side of the bed what he thought was
a draped cupboard door was in reality a door

opening either into the passage or into another
room, which he could not say, owing to the
door being locked and there being no key.

Oh, Mrs. Fyfe, excuse me — but where does
this door lead to?'

That one, sir ? Oh, into an unused and unfurnished
room. That door has been locked
ever since 1 came here. I think the room off
this was meant for a dressing-room.'

6 Haven't you got the key of it V

It is among the house-keys downstairs, sir.
I can look it out.'

Mr. Farquhar was just about to make some
abrupt request, but evidently felt that his conduct
would seem strange, so he simply muttered
a second good-night.

He had had a very varied experience of life,
and he very strongly objected to sleep in a
strange place whereto there were two doors,
unless both were locked and fastened on the
inside ; and in the present instance he noted
that not only was there no key to the left-hand
door, but that there was no snib or bar by which
to fasten it.

'If I were in certain places I know of,' he
muttered to himself, as he yawned heavily while
he undressed, ' I wouldn't sleep a wink till I had
put something heavy against that door. But it
would be too ridiculous here ; and, as for ghosts,
the locks and bars would make no difference to
a right-minded apparition. I wonder what that
old woman kept looking at me so curiously for ?
I wonder if I have ever seen her anywhere ?
Her face is at times strangely familiar. It must
have been ' — and Farquhar stopped short, adding,
in an ironical tone, and with a shifty smile
flickering over his pale, dissipated face — ' when
I was in Australia.'

But, tired as he was, it was long before he fell
asleep. Either the old-fashioned chamber, with
the deep shadows just perceptible owing to the
clear light of the wintry moon, which came into
the room in a diffused, soft sheen, kept his fancy
active by assuming strange shapes, and appearing
to be endued with motion ; or he had undergone
excess of mental fatigue, and had so
brought about that state of excited weariness
which is so trying to one really tired out. But

VOL. III. H

at last he dozed off into unconsciousness, though
only to be perturbed by troublesome dreams,
one or two of which became so unpleasant that
he awoke, cursed his folly, and grumbled himself
to sleep again. Once he dreamed that he
was lying asleep in a great forest, and that the
man he hated and feared most in the whole
world crept up close to him, and then he only
woke in time to find himself calling out for
mercy ; but this dream seemed by no means
strange to him. Strange, however, was the
next. He saw the banks of a great, muddy
river sweeping along between grimy wharfs
and great black warehouses, and in the gloom
of night a solitary figure — a woman walking
along the muddy flats by the margin, and at
last, throwing up her hands With a supplicating
gesture, throw herself forward in the darkly-flowing
tide ; and as the body kept swirling
round and round, it seemed to him to be constantly
propelled in his direction, and that in
the white deathly face he saw features he knew
too well.

Again he woke, and again he turned wearily

on his pillow, cursing Fimie Knowe and all that
belonged to it. But, as incoming waves gradually
draw towards a climax in one larger and
fuller than its predecessors, so the troubled
fancies of his weary brain culminated in one last
freak of the imagination. Out of the darkness
of this shadowy room grew something whiter
and whiter, more real, more tangible than any
dream vision that had hitherto haunted him, till
at last it became a body clad in the waving
vestments of the dead; long the thing stood
there, till at last, with a motion horribly suggestive,
it raised an arm to its shrouded face as
if partaking of some draught — what draught
Mr. Farquhar knew well enough, though his
eyes saw nothing. He tried to scream, but the
terror of his vision held him fascinated, and he
lay like one in a cataleptic trance, with the fear
upon him of premature burial. Then with a
slow motion the shape drew back the shroud
from its face — drew back the shroud from what
should have been a face, but beneath which was
nothing save a horrible blankness, in the midst
of which burned sombrely two fiery eyes. These

II 2

eyes, how they had haunted him ; the eyes of a
man not long dead, the eyes of a man self-murdered,
as was said, but whose death lay
hard upon the soul of another and unsuspected
man.

With a shriek that rang through the empty
passages of the old practically deserted house,
Mr. Farquhar awoke from his sleep and the
terror of his frightful vision ; but, even as he
realised that he had been terrified only in
slumber, his blood curdled anew as he unmistakably
saw something white and shadowy pass
from the side of his bed.

No coward was Mr. Farquhar, least of all a
superstitious coward, but, coming upon him as
it did, this waking vision perfectly paralysed
him with fear ; a minute later he overcame this
extremity of horror, and with a great effort sprang
from his bed in the direction where he had seen
the apparition.

Hark ! what was that ? an unmistakable
sound, a kind of click followed by a faint rustle
such as might be made by loose soft garments
against hard substances. This purely human

noise, if noise it could be called, instantaneously
braced bis excited nerves, and be at once realised
that, if some human visitor bad indeed been in
his room, he or she must have entered by that
unbarred door to the left of his bed. With still
trembling hands he struck a light and tried to
pull or push back the door, but it was immovable
; stooping down, he found that the light of
the candle could not be so cast as to enable him
to see into the blackness of the empty room
beyond, and he was just about to rise and hasten
to the main door of his chamber, when, a
sudden thought striking him, he took a match
and thrust it into the keyhole — an action followed
immediately by a clear sharp click as a
key fell to the floor.

The next moment he was on his feet with a
n ew startled expression in his eyes. Not waiting,
however, to ponder over this strange appearance
of a key where none had been an hour or two
before, he sprang hastily to the door to the right
of his bed, and, opening it, looked eagerly out
into the empty darkness of the passage that
led alone; this side of the house to the stairs

that curved towards the back of the house.

Not a sound to be heard, not a thing to be
seen. Listening intently, Mr. Farquhar's ears
could not even catch the echo of the light feet
of some wandering mouse, though he remained
stooping forward for many minutes without
motion, almost as if changed into marble.

Then, convinced at last that the person, if
person indeed it had been, had either got safely
away, or was lying hidden somewhere near,
he went softly along the corridor till he came
to the first door, unmistakably the same as
that which belonged to the small room adjoining
his. Before opening it, he stooped to
see if it were locked, and as he did so he saw at
a glance that the door was unfastened though
drawn closely to. Throwing it suddenly back,
he held the candle high so as to cast a clear
gleam of light into the room, while at the same
time he remained standing in an expectant
attitude, as if half prepared to meet he hardly
knew what or whom.

Again no sound, no motion, no faintest sign
of any living thing. Slowly and cautiously he

advanced, and, as his eyes took in all that was
to be seen in the almost empty room, he saw
that by no possibility could anyone be hiding
there. Walking forward to the side of the
second door, the same that formed the inner one
in his room, he picked up the key which had
fallen from the lock. Scrutinising this carefully,
he noticed that it had been lately oiled, though
it unmistakably bore the marks of rust from
disuse. What could this signify, he thought,
save one thing — that some one had been anxious
to open that door without, if possible, making
any sound.

His first impulse was to take it away with
him, but, after a few moments' thought, he
replaced it in the lock, turning it and opening
the door, reposing the latter, and leaving the
key in the position it would naturally have after
the door was locked. Then, shading the candlelight
with his hand, he stole swiftly back by
the way he had come, glancing keenly backward
and forward along the corridor as he did
so, and immediately afterwards regained his
own room.

He was much puzzled what to make of this
strange incident, but, as he found himself shivering
from the extreme cold, he got into bed
again, leaving the candle burning. Far more
fatigued than he imagined, Mr. Farquhar,
despite the excitement of this strange interruption
to his rest, and by that strange perversity
of the nervous system by which sleep eagerly
sought seems hopelessly distant, while undesired
slumber comes unexpectedly upon one, gradually
lost consciousness.

How long he slept he did not know, but the
candle he had left burning, which, indeed, had
been near the socket when left on the mantelpiece,
was out. Had it all, then, been a dream \
Yes, it must have been, and at the same moment
it seemed to Mr. Farquhar that his having
risen and searched the adjoining room was as
unreal as the dream that preceded his doing
so. While trying to realise, or actually believing
this fact, sleep — deep, dreamless sleep —
came to him at last, and his breathing became
long and regular.

But if Lora's guardian had been awake

before he dreamed that strange and terrifying
vision of a poisoned man, lie would have
realised beyond all don't that a visitor other
than supernatural had indeed entered his room.
For, just before his excited brain had conjured
up the phantasm that had startled him into
wakefulness, the door of the unused room to his
left had opened slowly and softly, and a tall
figure, clad in a greyish robe that shrouded it
from head to foot, glided noiselessly up to the
side of the bed, and looked long and earnestly
at the face of the sleeping man, just visible in
the subdued glimmer caused by slanting beams
of the moon finding their broken way between
the cracks in the old-fashioned oak shutters,
This midnight visitor stooped almost close to
the sleeper, till he or she felt that the hot
breath was already helping the latter towards
his awakening, when, almost as intangible to
sight in the gloom of that shadowy chamber as
one of the swaying curtain shadows themselves,
the robed figure glided quickly back by the way
it had come — in time to evade discovery by the
now wakeful and alarmed occupant of the room.

When next morning Edwin Farquhar awoke,
lie did not for some time realise the events of
the preceding night. But while he lay blinking
at the golden mote-laden sunbeams that
stole through the chinks of the shutters and
lit up this and that shadowy oak-carving on
wardrobe or chair, there came suddenly
upon him an acute memory of all that had
transpired.

A minute before he had felt still heavy with
sleep, but now he felt keenly awake. Rising,
he hurriedly dressed himself, having first found
by the hot water at his door that Mrs. Fyfe
had already summoned him, and then, quietly
closing his door behind him, he went along the
corridor to that of the room adjoining, which
he found closed but not locked.

A noiseless turn of the hand, and it was open.
Entering the room, he advanced quickly to the
inner door, so as to convince himself unmistakably
that a newly-oiled key was really there.
To his surprise there was no key in the lock, and
no sign of it on the floor.

Was it possible that he had been dreaming

this also ? Hardly, it seemed to him, for this
portion of what he had remembered of the night
before stood out with incisive distinctness from
the far more startling, but now far vaguer,
horror of his disordered fancy.

He felt strangely puzzled and amazed, though
he would have found it difficult to say at what
exactly. Turning, at last, with an impatient
gesture, he left the room, closing the door behind
him as he did so, and then went downstairs
to the breakfast-room.

If anyone at all had visited him during the
night — and, of course, Mr. Farquhar never for a
moment supposed that his slumbers had been
disturbed by a supernatural presence — who else
could it have been but Mrs. Fyfe f

He remembered the curious intentness of her
gaze during dinner, and in his bed-room when
he said good-night, and how much disturbed he
had been thereby ; and, by her own account,
there was no one else in the house save a kitchen-maid,
and a cook from the neighbouring mansion,
the Cedars.

Brooding over this circumstance as he stood

awaiting an answer to the bell he had rung, he
did not expect to see Mrs. Fyfe herself.

Ten to one,' he exclaimed, in a low tone,
4 she will send up a message to say she has a
bad headache and is confined to her bed. If
she does, I shall insist on seeing her, cunning
old fox that she is !'

Even while muttering these words, the 
door swung open, and Mrs. Fyfe
-entered with a tray, looking as trim and
sternly neat as was her wont. There was absolutely
no trace of discomposure in her worn,
rugged face, though her manner, if anything,
was even a little icier than the night before, the
very natural result of the unaccustomed discourtesy
which she had experienced from Mr.
Farquhar.

CHAPTER X.

A DECLARATION OF WAR.

Mr. Farquhar looked at Mrs. Fyfe keenly while-acknowledging
her polite, if not very genial,,
good-morning, but he was forced to confess to
himself that not only was he surprised at her
appearing at all, but at the evident indifference
with which she addressed him. He noticed,
however, that she no longer kept casting at
him those annoying sidelong glances, probably
conformably with his peevish admonition of last
night. The old housekeeper was just about to
leave the room when Mr. Farquhar called her
back. He had determined to ask her abruptly
some questions concerning the event of last
night, for the more he thought of it the more

he became convinced that an actual event it
had been.

Oh, Mrs. Fyfe, one word with you, please.
I suppose it was you who were moving about
last night near my room ? I am a very light-sleeper,
and hear the least noise, and I distinctly
heard some one moving in my immediate neighbourhood,
at which I was surprised, after what
you had told me as to no one sleeping on the
first floor save myself.'

4 1 heard nothing, sir,' said Mrs. Fyfe, quietly ;
4 and I think your ears must have played you
a trick ; or perhaps some mouse has been
running about the passage or empty room, and
your quick hearing has caught and magnified
the sound.'

'It was no mouse that I heard, Mrs. Fyfe,
but actual flesh and blood such as you or I.
Cannot you conceive who it could be ? Were
you not yourself in search of something you
had forgotten — or, perhaps, Mrs. Fyfe,' added
Mr. Farquhar, with a scarcely concealed sneer,
you have a habit of walking in your sleep ?'

Not that I know of, sir, though it may be so

for all I can tell. But I can only say again that
your nerves have misled you.'

If so, it is very strange that I should have
fancied I actually saw some one — a woman, too
glide away from my bed, and, stranger still,
that I should immediately thereafter hear a faint
rustling sound as of some one hurriedly retreating.'


Mrs. Fyfe made no answer, but at the same
time betrayed neither confusion nor even the
slightest sign of interest. But when Mr. Farquhar
next spoke a sudden dimness came over
her steely-grey eyes, and her hand trembled perceptibly
as she moved a plate further back from
the edge of the table.

But what is much the strangest of all, Mrs.
Fyfe, is that, after lighting my candle, I found
a key in the lock where none had been before,
on the outside of the door; and you will remember
my pointing this out to you before saying
good-night, and your reply to the effect
that the key was amongst the house-keys in a
bundle downstairs. Was not this strange, my
dear Mrs. Fyfe V

'It is strange, Mr. Farqukar,' said the housekeeper,
in a slightly tremulous voice, but with
unruffled composure save for the already mentioned
trembling of the hand, ' that I should have
been mistaken about the key being in the lock ;
but either I or the servant who assisted me in
doing up your room before you came must have
left it there unwittingly.'

4 Ah, and I suppose you or the servant carefully
oiled it, although what use you could have
for the key at all is not very clear V

6 Really, sir, if you'll excuse me saying so, I
don't understand all this suspicious questioning
about an old key.'

'Mrs. Fyfe, oblige me by remaining where
you are for a few moments. I want to speak
to the servant ;' and, as he spoke, Mr. Farqukar
went to the side of the fireplace and rang the
bell.

The housekeeper still showed no sign of being
seriously disturbed, save that she grew primmer
and stifFer than ever. Of the two she seemed
much the less discomposed, remaining rigidly
erect, and with her clear, steel-grey eyes fixed

on her new master, while the latter himself
fidgeted about, and at last rang violently a
second time, at the very moment the servant
appeared at the door.

What is your name?'

Maggie, sir, if you please.'

4 Well, Maggie, do you remember whether the
empty room next my bed-room was cleaned or
even entered the day before or on the day of my
arrival V

No, sir ; please, sir, it wasn't my fault, sir ; I
wasn't told to do it.'

1 Were you not in that room at all since I
came here V

1 Only for a minute, please, sir.'

< When was that V

When you were in the library after dinner,
sir. Mrs. Fyfo asked me to run up and bringdown
the key that was in the inner door of the
empty room.'

What did she say when you brought it
down?'

'Please, sir, I tell her that it was gey rusty,
and that it was that stiff I could hardly get it

VOL. III. I

to lock the door ; and then she tell me to clean
it, and give it a guide rabbin' with oil.'
Where do yon sleep V
i Just off the kitchen, sir.'
Anywhere near Mrs. Fyfe's room V
Next door to it ; her room's just ayant
mine.'

Did you hear her moving about last night V
For the first time it seemed to dawn upon the
girl that she was being arraigned in evidence
against the housekeeper, and she cast a furtive
glance in the direction of the latter to see if she
were discomposed, or if she could gain any
warning from her face. But Mrs. Fyfe was not
even looking at her, her gaze being fixed with
a strange intensity on Mr. Farquhar's face.
The girl did not know what to say, but
thought it safer to give a denial of the truth,
and she had just begun a somewhat stammering
reply, when her interrogator interrupted
her with a sharp admonition to speak the truth,
after which she felt too terrified to do anything
else than state the fact.

I'm heart o* ghosts, sir, and I alius sleep wi'

my door aff the sneck, and last night 1 was
feeling gey nervous. I was just dropping' asleep
again after tossing about a lang time, when I
heard a sound in the passage, and sat up in my
bed. I could just catch sight o' a tall figure
hurrying past my door, but the next meenit I
heard the door next me locked, and I knew then
that it was only Mrs. Fyfe.'

'Did you say nothing to Mrs. Fyfe this
morning?'

No, sir ; I had clean forgotten all about
it,'

That will do, Maggie. You are an intelligent
girl, and I won't forget you. You may go
now.'

When the girl had gone, Mr. Farquhar waited
a moment or two, and then swiftly crossed the
room to the closed door, which he suddenly
opened, with the result that Maggie, who
had been leaning against it with her ear
pressed close to the keyhole, fell forward into
the room.

Instead of taking the girl's natural curiosity
in more or less good part, Mr. Farquhar's violent

i 2

temper got the better of him, and he gave her a
kick that made her spring to her feet and run
off in a transport of mingled shame, pain, and
indignation.

And now, Mrs. Fyfe, I presume you will no
longer strive to deny that it was you who
gained access to my room last night V

I decline to answer any question, Mr.
Farquhar, after the way in which you have
catechised that girl before my face — after
the way you have just behaved to her — and
for your general manner towards myself.'

Mrs. Fyfe, how much do you get a year for
doing nothing here V

4 My salary as housekeeper and sub-manager
of the house property is fifty pounds a-year.'

It's forty-five too much said Mr. Farquhar,
insolently ; ' and how are you paid V

6 Quarterly.'

1 When is your next payment due V

'In a month from to-day.'

Well, at the end of the month I will pay you
the amount due, also the next quarter in
advance, and then don't let me find you lingering

about here an hour after your service ends,
or you'll hear about it in a way you won't
relish. I won't give you a " character." '

Thank you,' interrupted Mrs. Fyfe, ironically.


1 Don't add more impertinence to your previous
insolence, woman ! Do you hear ? I
give you a month's warning, and if I have the
slightest cause to complain again I will pay you
off at a day's notice.'

6 Very good, Mr. Farquhar. I am quite
willing to abide your judgment. Many things
happen in a month.'

What do you mean V

I only said that many things happened
in a month. For instance, poor Maxwell
Armitage was in the prime of vigorous life the
week before you paid him your visit, and about
<a week later he was ruined and — poisoned.
They called it suicide.'

Look here, my good woman, what are you
driving at V

For the first time Mrs. Fyfe began to realise
that she must be careful not to inflame her visitor's

anger further. There was an ominous
gleam in his dark eyes, a sombre light that betokened
fierce resentment.

Mean, sir ? I mean nothing more than I say.
A month's as long as a year to a dead man, as
we say hereabouts, and more may happen to
any of us in a month than in a score of ordinary
years.'

Well, clear out now, and for the rest of the
time I am here let Maggie attend to me.'

When Mr. Farquhar had finished his breakfast,
he was surprised to see Mrs. Fyfe appear in the
room again.

I thought I had told you '

I beg your pardon, sir, but I just wanted to
speak to you for a moment. Maggie will attend
to you as you requested, and Mary Tait, the
cook, can safely be left in charge of the house as
well as the kitchen. If I am to leave here in a
month, it is necessary that I make some arrangements
for my impending change : so if I could
go to Edinburgh for a day I should be much
obliged to you.'

I suppose you want to go and persuade Miss

Lora to interfere on your behalf, and tell her a
tissue of lies into the bargain?'

Can I go, sir, if you please — either to-day or
tomorrow?'

'No, yon can't. You have done nothing to
merit my consideration — so I will not permit you
to leave Firnie Knowe till your time is up. I am
only to be here for a few days longer, but if I
hear of your taking advantage of my absence
I will send you about your business without
the least delay, and without a farthing of
wages beyond that to which you are legally
entitled.'

I am sorry, Mr. Farquhar, that you couldn't
have behaved more generously to an old servant.
However, 1 won't trouble you again.'

Throughout the greater part of the day, Lora's
guardian inspected the house and grounds,
mentally calculating the realisable value of all
he saw. The sky had long threatened snow, and
at last the great white flakes began to comedown,
and that gradual twilight, characteristic
of those dull, late winter afternoons when the
snow-gloom covers the land, set in.

Mr. Farquhar was walking past the gardener's
lodge, but turned homeward as the drift became
stronger and the cold more penetrating. As he
did so, he caught sight of a small figure running
across the meadow that intervened between the
avenue and the hedgerows of the branch road
to the small Firnie station. He recognised the
lad as one he had seen the day before, little
Alick Fraser, the son of the stableman.

1 Hi, there, Alick !' he called out, and the boy
came running towards him, touching his hat ashe
approached, and stopping short with a funny
little reverential bob of the head.

Where are you off to, my boy V

1 Please, suit, I'm gain to the station to post a
letter.'

I thought the letters only went away once a
day — at lunch time ; and I have already sent off
all mine in the bag.'

It's one that Mistress Fyfe's forgotten, sure.
She tell me to run wi' it to the station, and it
wad be in time for the afternoon train.'

1 Where is it for ? Let me see the letter.'

The boy handed it to him, and Mr. Farquhar

read the address — 'Miss Lora Armitage, 13, Grant
Square, Edinburgh.'

8 I'm going on to the station myself, so I'll
take it for you. Where were you going after
posting it?'

'Please, suit, I was going' to Firnie — Firnie
village, ye ken. I stay there wi' my grannie for
the schooling', an' only gang up to Firnie Knowe
since a week or so, and sometimes no for a
fortnight. I was here on a message frae the
schoolmaster when I seed ye yesterday.'

Well, Alick, you run straight back to Firnie,
and here's a sixpence to buy sweeties with.
And look here, you had better not tell Mrs. Fyfe
that you did not post her letter, or she will give
it you hot. 1 am thinking that she wants to give
you a scolding at any rate.'

The lad stood in evident awe of the stern old
housekeeper, and seemed relieved to find the new

laird ' on his side.

'Deed I'll no, suit,' he exclaimed, grinning ;

an if she peers at me I'll just say I posted it
my ainsi.'

Right you are, and now cut along, or you

won't get to the sweetie-shop at Firnie till it's
dark.'

Mr. Farquhar placed Mrs. Fyfe's letter in his
pocket, but as soon as little Alick Fraser was
out of sight he turned back in the direction of
the house instead of going on to the station as he
had declared he was about to do.

When he reached the library he sat down
beside the lamp-lit table and leisurely opened
the epistle he had intercepted.

'Dear Miss Lora,' it ran, 'please consider
this letter strictly private, in the meantime at
any rate. You will know that your guardian,
Mr. Farquhar, is here at present. I want you
to tell me frankly if you have any reason to
dislike him, or if you mistrust him, or if you
would rather he were not your guardian. I
have a special reason for asking, but I will not
enlarge upon the subject here, except to say
that I once knew Mr. Farquhar under a different
name. If you wish to hear further from me,
please send me a line to that effect, addressed
under cover to John Hecuhick, Head Gardener,

Firnie Knowe, as Mr. Farquhar both fastens up
and unlocks the letter-bag here, though this is
a matter I have always been accustomed to
attend to myself. I have had this note posted
by hand. I won't be able to get up to town
for a month yet ; so if you think there is no
necessity for you to discuss the matter with me,
(though I trust you will not put me down as
merely a suspicious and interfering old woman,)
simply take no notice of this letter, and I will
give you such explanations as you want when
I next see you. I may be doing great injustice
to Mr. Farquhar, for, though what I know of
him many, many years ago under a different
name did not redound to his credit, he may
have quite changed since then. Personally I
do not at all fancy him, but that's not to the
point. I may mention, however, that he has
given me a month's notice to leave his and your
service, which, so far as you are concerned, I
deeply, very deeply, regret. If, however, you
wish me to come and see you, I will do so the
day after Mr. Farquhar leaves, though lie
informed me (when I asked for leave to get

away for a day — as I would have preferred
speaking to yon than writing) that if he learned
I absented myself at all from Firnie Knowe, he
would dismiss me on the moment.

1 Respectfully, Yours obediently,

1 Joanna Fyfe.'

Mr. Farquhar read this letter through two or
three times, and then slowly tore it up into a
number of little pieces, throwing them on to
the fire before him, and watching their swift
transposition into ash with that furtive, flickering
smile which Lora had on more than one
occasion noticed with instinctive dislike.

H'm, it puzzles me to think what that old
woman's after. What the devil can she mean 1
She once knew me under a different name —
that's not affording me much clue, having had
no small variety in my time. What a fool I was
not to find out all about her when I first came.
I had the impression, somehow, that she had
been put in by that good-natured idiot, Maxwell
Armitage. She could not possibly have been
here at that time — at least, I have not the faintest

recollection of her. Wish I hadn't been so
hasty in telling her not to speak to me again
while I was here. Let me see, I think the best
thing for me to do will be to look in tomorrow
on Headrick, the gardener, and see if be can
give me any information. There's one thing
pretty certain, if I'm not greatly mistaken, and
that is that I shall be allowed to have a good
sleep this night, anyhow, for I guess the old
lady will hardly risk another midnight inspection.'


Immediately after breakfast next morning —
and, as Mr. Farquhar had surmised, after a quite
undisturbed night's rest — he went along the
avenue to the south lodge, and gave some
general directions to Headrick.

By-the-by, Headrick, how long have you
been here V

1 Weel, sir, man and boy, I've been here about
forty year — I was here afore Mr. Hew Armitage
came into the property at all, and have remained
ever since.'

Ah, and I suppose you and Mrs. Fyfe
are great cronies, for if I mistake not she

also has been a long time in the connection V

6 Weel, sir, between you and me and the wa',
I canna say that Mrs. Fyfe "and myself' are just
the best o' friends — not that I cinna respect her
greatly, for she is a good, sterling' woman — but
she's no companionable, you see, and I cinna
hare owe muckle o' her company

Let me see, now : was she at Firnie Knowe
during Hew Armitage's time V

4 No, sir, it was not till a year or more after
]\Jr. Armitage's disappearance that she was made
housekeeper here, partly because of Mr. Maxwell
Armitage's interest in her, but mostly on
account of her connection with poor Mrs. Armytage's
family. Did ye know them at all, sir ?
Cameron was the name.'

Cameron, did you say ? Let me see ; what
Cameronss were they V

6 Oh, the laird was Mr. Cameron, a famous
shipbuilder in Dundee, but better known hereabouts
as Cameron of Dunluiart. It was his
daughter, Mona, that became the wife of Hew
Armitage, and from Miss Mona's young days upto
her marriage Mrs. Fyfe was housekeeper at

Dunluiart. I mind me now that she left her
place rather less than a year before Mrs. M'lan
did, and Mrs. M'lan, ye know, was the nurse of
Miss Mona as a child, and many years later was
the person to whom she entrusted her little
daughter, the same as is now Miss Lora, whom
I hope we will see over us all here in good time.
It won't be long now, for she must be close on
her twenty-first birthday.'

Yes, I too hope we'll see her here in good
time, but she won't be your mistress for another
four years, because, owing to her father's will,
she is not to come into her property till she is
twenty-five. Till then, Headrick, you will have
to consider me as your master.'

While Mr. Farquhar was residing at Firnie
Knowe, and making thorough acquaintance
with innumerable details, nothing new had occurred
in the household at Grant Square. The
more Lora had thought over her guardian's
extraordinary conduct, the more she became
convinced that she could have nothing to do
with him save what was absolutely necessary

owing to the legal position he held as the
trustee over her fortune. Lady Ramsay, seeing
the girl's great aversion to speak on the subject
at present, pressed her no further after Lora
succinctly told her that under no possible circumstances
could she be induced to pass even
a single night under Mr. Farquhar's charge.
Naturally both she and Sir John were surprised
at this marked change of front, remembering,
as they did, that Lora had invariably upheld
the character and person of her guardian ; but
they had so many new anxieties of their own,
owing to the disastrous collapse of Maxwell
Admit age's business, that they had little time
to ponder overmuch on the altered course of
events which had been brought about. Lora
let the clays of the appointed week go past
without writing or thinking of writing to Mr.
Farquhar. She was determined to let him take
the initiative at present, at any rate.

On the morning of the day on which her
letter of surrender ought to have reached her
guardian, all thoughts concerning him and his
threats were driven out of her mind by a wholly

unexpected, and, to her, joy-bearing letter from
Edward Duncan. In this he informed her how
he had gained strength surprisingly, even after
being at sea so short a time as one week (and
of course he attributed his rapid recovery entirely
to the knowledge of her love), and how
he had been persuaded by the doctor on board
to try the effects of the Cape climate instead of
going on to Australia, the chance being afforded
to him by the fact of the vessel having to put
into Cape Town en route. Here he had been a
week, and already felt that he had no longer
any excuse for prolonging his voyage, and that
he would therefore stay two or three weeks
longer in Cape Colony, and then sail for home.

I will thus be with you in the spring instead
of the late summer, as we had both thought
would be the case ; so any day after the last of
March you may expect to see me turning up in
Edinburgh''

Lora read and re-read the many pages of his
letter, but for a long time all she distinctly
realised was the happy fact that he would be
home months earlier than she had anticipated.

VOL. III. K

Although she had never admitted it to herself",
she had experienced a growing dread of Mr.
Farquhar, especially after the animosity he had
shown against her lover, and she could not at
times help feeling a vague fear that somehow or
other her guardian would come between her and
Edward Duncan. But now that Edward was
coming home all would be well. If the worst
came to the worst, he and she might get married
and go away from her guardian and his influence,
and manage quite well without even the
personal allowance which at present was paid
to her. Her news was good news also to the
whole Ramsay family, for by every member
thereof Edward Duncan was greatly liked and
admired.

The dinner-party that evening at Grant
Square was a livelier one than most of its predecessors
for some time past, and even Lady
Ramsay, who, despite her hitherto happy experience
of life, was by no means inclined to
take a roseate hue of things in general, laughed
as freely and frankly, thought Lora, as she used
to do in the happy days at Oban. The circle

had just broken up in various directions when a
servant came into the drawing-room and
announced to Miss Armitage that Mr. Farquhar
was downstairs in the hall, but that she had not
shown him into the library on account of her
instructions — moreover, that she had told him
Miss Armitage had given implicit directions that
under no circumstances could she consent to
receive him.

8 1 told him so more than once, miss, but he
told me to let you know that he was here, and
he begged me to inform you that your granting
a few moments' interview was urgent.'

On any previous day Lora would distinctly
have refused to grant this request, but this
evening she felt so exuberantly glad and confident
that she experienced almost no repugnance
at the idea of again meeting Mr. Farquhar
alone.

Seeing her hesitate, Sir John asked if she
would care for him to accompany her, an offer,
however, which she declined, though she added
that she would be glad if he would come the
moment he heard the bell rung.

k2

When she entered the library, into which the
servant had already ushered the visitor, she
bowed haughtily, but, seeing that her guardian
stood close to the fireplace, she did not advance
further than the outer edge of the table.

Lora,' began Mr. Farquhar, ' I '

I have already requested you, Mr. Farquhar,
to call me Miss Armitage.'

You surely forget, Lora, that I am your
guardian, the representative of your father, the
nearest connection you have in the world. But
I have not called here to bicker about trifles
of this kind. You are aware, I presume, that
the period I gave you for consideration has
elapsed, and elapsed without my having heard
from you V
'Well?'

I now wish to know exactly what you intend
doing.'

That is exactly what I want to know, Mr.
Farquhar — what you intend doing.'

Lora, is it impossible, absolutely impossible,
that you can agree to the proposal I made to
you a week ago V

My best answer to that is to inform you that
Mr. Edward Duncan will be here sooner than I
expected, and that, guardian or no guardian, he
would not think twice about chastising you for
the way you have behaved, if I see fit to tell him
of it. Have I again to remind you that, before
long, he will be my husband?'

At these words Mr. Farquhar suddenly advanced,
saying as he did so,

Lora, my dear child, let me shake your
hand.'

Lora stared at him in astonishment, which
the next moment gave way to her old indignation.


How dare you approach me again after what
passed between us that night when I was forced
to have you sent away from the house?'

4 My dear,' said Mr. Farquhar, quite composedly,
' I have had a trying part to play, but
at last it is at an end. I am truly and heartily
rejoiced to see how well you have come out of
the test to which I had to put you. Yes, you
need not look so surprised ; your poor father —
God bless him, dear fellow!— made me promise

to put you through this ordeal, if it so happened
that, when I found you, you were engaged to
be married. If you had not remained true to
your lover, I was to have been far more stringent
with you during the intervening years between
now and your succession to the property.'

And did my father tell you to slander an
innocent man and to grossly insult a defenceless
girl?'

'You put it too strongly, my dear; you
should remember I am a man well up in years,
and one who would fain become a second father
to you. Perhaps I have been clumsy, but I
saw no other way to carry out your father's wish
than to speak against Mr. Duncan and behave
as I did.'

I do not believe you were acting, Mr.
Farquhar,' said Lora, quietly and firmly. ' But
for the moment let that pass. You will now, of
course, if what you say is true, be quite willing
to grant the following: — The money I asked for
on behalf of Mrs. Maxwell Armitage, of the
housekeeper at HeathclifFe, and for my board
here; also, you'll advance me, I presume, an

adequate allowance if Mr. Duncan should ask
me to marry him soon after his return.'

i I shall do my utmost to meet your wishes in
every respect. I promise you this, Lora.'

1 You distinctly agree to grant me these three
requests, and without modification V

1 Yes, yes, my dear child, I have already promised
you, and you can rely on my word. But
you will understand, I am sure, that there are
certain formal preliminaries that must be gone
through in the case of raising any large amounts
under trust. So, while I will do all in my power
to carry out your wishes, I will have to ask you
to be patient for a little while yet. For one
thing, there are other sums urgently demanding
realisation.'

For instance, I presume,' said Lora, ironically,
' Mr. Farquhar, the ten thousand pounds
which was mentioned in my father's will as your
legacy.'

But, before her guardian had time to reply,
the door opened and Sir John came into the
room.'

I beg your pardon if I am intruding, but I

wish to have one word with you, Mr. Farquhar,
in presence of Miss Armitage here. I may be
doing you a gross injustice, but Dr. Steele and
myself have decided to legally protest against
your assumption of the control of Miss Armytage's
affairs. We may or may not be successful
in this, but in any case, and because of our interest
in Miss Armitage, we think this the wisest
course to pursue.'

Are you not a little late in making this move,.
Sir John V asked Mr. Farquhar, politely ; ' you
perhaps forget that I have legally assumed
guardianship, and have already exercised my
functions as trustee — and possession, you know,,
is nine points of the law. But I have a perfect
right to demand an explanation of your extraordinary
conduct — I say of your conduct, for I
do not recognise Dr. Steele's right to have a say
in the matter at all.'

I can say nothing more, Mr. Farquhar, • than
that I am acting for the sake of my dear friend,.
Miss Armitage, here — acting as I think best in
every way ; and, as for Dr. Steele, he was the late
Mr. Hew Admit age's oldest friend, and, knowing

him as he did, he feels assured that the Hew
Armitage who wrote the document you delivered
to us was not the Hew Armitage whom
he knew.'

'I call this most, insulting, and I certainly
decline to withdraw from the exercise of my
just right until legally forced to do so. Further,
in the event of a legal decision being in my
favour, I will bring an action for defamation of
character against Dr. Steele and yourself. —
Lora !' exclaimed her guardian, suddenly, 'do you
approve of this conduct on the part of Sir John
Ramsay — do you mistrust your father's old
friend, the man who succoured him in his dire
need, and who remained loyal and generous to
him from the time when you were but an infant
to the day of his death?'

'Whatever Sir John Ramsay and Dr. Steele
think right in this matter, I am willing to
approve ; I know neither is capable of real discourtesy,
and equally I know that neither would
take upon themselves the responsibility they
speak of without what they considered ample
justification.'

Suddenly Mr. Farquhar forgot all his suavity
and self-restraint, and turned round to his ward
with a savage exclamation.

'Is it to be open war, then, between us *' he
demanded, 'for, if so, you will have the worst of
it ! I am not a man to be trifled with ; I would
rather be your friend than your enemy, but if
you won't have me for your friend, then I have
no other resource left than to be your bitter
opponent. Once more, I ask you, is it to be
war or not between us V

War,' said Lora, scornfully and decisively, as
she turned and left the room, an action that was
followed by Sir John's holding back the door
with a low bow as his unwelcome visitor strode
abruptly from the library, and thence out at the
great hall door.

CHAPTER I.

CONGER COVE AGAIN.

For many a year was that awful night remembered,
the night of the terrific storm that
swept along the western coasts of England and
Ireland, nowhere more furiously or with direr
results than on those wild Cornish coasts of
which Conger Cove was one of the most exposed
outlying harbours.

It will be remembered that with utmost difficulty,
and mainly owing to the noble gallantry
of a fisherman called Garth Trendall, one man
alone was rescued from among those hurled into
the raging seas which wrought wildest havoc
with the vessel that had rushed upon the outlying
reefs of Conger Cove.

At the very moment that Trendall had
secured his footing, with the man he had saved
in his arms, something fell from the nude body
of the latter. One man only saw this, Jasper
Polgarth by name, and, with the swiftness of a
pelican seizing an alarmed fish, he had swooped
his arm through the first fierce turmoil of the
resurge and grasped the object as it was just
about to be whirled out seaward.

Even the great strength of Garth Trendall
had given way under the strain to which he
had been put, and he lay beside the man whom
he had saved, if indeed life still lingered in the
latter, as inanimately as any corpse.

While one or two kept watch to see if, perchance,
any other unfortunate should by good
fortune be washed ashore, the rest of the fishermen
crowded round the two recumbent figures,
and at last a cry of delight came from them asunder
the stimulus of some strong French
brandy that had never paid duty, Trendall
opened his eyes and seemed to instantaneously
regain consciousness and vigour.

Never mind me, men, I'm all right. Look

after this poor chap, if he be still alive. Carry
him up to my place ; my Mary will see to him,
and do all mortal woman can do.'

You must go yourself, too, Garth,' said old
Ivo Marshall, his father-in-law ; e you're not fit
to be out in this wild night any longer after all
you've gone through.'

I'm not the man to leave my duty, Ivo Marshall,
and as long as I'm able to stick to my
duty I'll do so.'

Some four or five men, including old Vivo,
lifted the nude body of the castaway, threw
something round it, and carried it to Trendall's
cottage with such speed as the furious tempest
would permit.

Just as they were about [to depart with
their unconscious burden, Trendall turned round
to ask if there was a belt still round the man's
body.

1 No ; there's not even a tattoo-mark on him,'
was the reply, with grim literalness.

Look about, men, and see if you can find a
belt on the shore. If it hadn't been for that
belt, I don't believe it would have been possible

for me to keep a hold of him ; but I remember
now that I felt it give way at the last moment.
It may have contained all that the poor fellow
most valued, and I hope it's not lost for good

Perhaps the frightful clamour of the shrieking
and howling wind, and the thunder of
the whirling billows among the echoing rocks
along the booming sands, prevented Jasper
Polgarth hearing what his companion said;
anyhow, he made no answer, but, after looking
earnestly seaward fcr a few moments, turned
and joined the small party who were about to
carry away the rescued man.

Meanwhile the castaway, who had been
carried to the TrendahV cottage, lay in a deep
swoon, tended by Mrs. Trendall, while her husband
was locked in heavy slumber. Seeing
Garth still asleep, worn out with his great exertions,
and the castaway apparently as deep in
his stupor as ever, Mary Trendall ran into her
father's cottage and joined in the hymn of
thanksgiving which many there, to their
honour be it said, sang with genuine emotion
even in the midst of what to them meant dire

loss. When she returned she found the rescued
man lying in the same position as before, but
with wide-open, vacant eyes gazing straight up
at the rafters above him.

God be thanked, sir, you've been spared to
come to life again — for one may well say that
you've been dead and come alive again.'

What has happened tome?' was moaned
out, in a feeble, tremulous voice.

Why, don't you know, my good man, that
you've been wrecked in the fullest gale that
ever raged along these coasts, and that my
husband saved you at the risk of his own
precious, noble life. There are not many
Garth Trendalls I think,' said the woman,
proudly.

4 When did this happen V — but so feebly was
the question asked that the person addressed
could hardly catch the words.

Why, only last night. Do you think you've
been in a fever 1 ? You've only been dazed a bit,
but will soon be all right again. You may
thank God you're alive. It's little short of a
miracle how you reached the Slice at all.'

VOL. III. L

The man looked at her vaguely, evidently not
at all taking in the import of her words.

Look here, my man, you're dazed still,'
cried the woman, a little impatiently ; * just turnover
on your side again and take another spell
o' sleep.'

The man did as he was told with that unquestioning
obedience characteristic of one in
great weakness, but a strangely puzzled look
kept in his open eyes for the few minutes ere he
again lost consciousness.

It was an hour or more after dark when Garth
Trendall awoke, and, against his wife's request,
insisted on sitting up for an hour or so, though
he felt stiff and weary after his long battle
against the tempest on the Beacon Cliff and in
the surging waters of the Slice.

While the two were sitting before the kitchen
fire, and talking in low tones about the stranger
in the room adjoining, old Ivo Marshall came into
see if his son-in-law were yet up.

Glad to see ye out o' bed, Garth, my boy.
I hopes your none the worse o' all ye're gone
through V

None the worse, thank you, kindly. But my
heart is sore for these poor fellows out on the
Tongue, about whom Mary has been telling me ;
though I am bound to say I don't see how we
could have done anything to save them'"

Ay, ay, true enough, lad. Last nightfall long
be remembered in St. Aphra. You've come off
as easy as anyone, Garth ; only the boat in
which you had a fourth share being smashed.
Your own Staff o Life ' (for by this quaint name
Trendall's largest fishing smack was known)
'and the Dancing Wave are all right, or have
only suffered very slight damage. Poor Jabez
Barrel has lost everything, and so has Arthur
Penruddock and his brother John, and so has
Congryff and Smithson, and the two Remained
but the worst sufferers of all are young Tree
and Jasper Polgarth, who have lost absolutely
everything. It's true that young Tree
loss is not so serious — for he's a young
man and single, and has, moreover, his old
granada, Weller Tretower, to fall back upon ;
whereas poor Polgarth is married, and has two
children, and, in addition to losing his smack

and all his fishing gear, has had his cottage
blown in.'

Poor fellow. What's he doing just now V
1 His wife's in wi' Susan Scenery, where she's
to stay till something can be done wi' the
cottage. Edith Webb has taken the two children
in the meantime — God bless her kindly
soul ! As for Polgarth himself, I'm afraid he's
trying to forget his troubles at Dick Tree


That's worse news than of his wall blown' in,'
remarked Trendall, sadly. 'A wall can be built
up again, but it's more difficult to shake off the
craving for drink. It's queer, too, for Polgarth,
though a bit inclined that way before his marriage,
has been steady ever since ; an' it's surely
the very worst thing to do, when you're laid flat
wi' misfortune, to go and spend your last farthing
wi' what will only stupefy you further. It's
very sad, real sad.'

Well, I must be going' now, Garth. I only
looked in to see if you and the stranger was
better. Good-night, my lad; I'll look in tomorrow
and see you, an' talk over what's to be

done wi' the poor chap i' the next room. Goodnight,
Mary, my clear

Garth dear, you're not going out again,
surely?' said the latter, anxiously, as she saw
him rise and follow her father.

Yes, Mary, I'm going round to Trelawney's,
to see if I can help Jasper Polgarth a bit. I'll
he back before long, my lass, so don't worry.'

The door of the Polgarths' cottage, as well as
the western wall, had been blown in, and now
only a smack's sail had been fastened up against
the entrance. Thrusting this aside, Trendall
stepped into complete darkness, but, as he took
another step forward, the door of the inner room
opened suddenly, and a voice called out angrily
to know who was there.

< What ! you, Garth Trendall 1 What do you
want?'

I came to see you, Jasper Polgarth, for I
heard what evil things had happened to you,
and how even the shelter of your home has
been denied to your wife and children.'

I thank you for your sympathy, Garth Randall,
but I am not in such desperate plight as
you seem to imagine.'

'Well, I am glad to bear that, anyhow,
though I was assured that you had lost everything
in your possession. However, since I'm
here, I may as well come in and have a chat
with you, and, if I can help you otherwise, let
me know.'

All this time they had been standing in the
darkness of the unlit, half-ruined kitchen, and
the gleam coming from the open door of the
inner room showed that, at any rate, there was
brightness of some kind therein.

1 Thank you, Trendall,' replied Polgarth, sullenly,
' but I do not want your assistance.'

Trendall looked at the speaker curiously,
surprised at the unwonted incivility of a man
with whom he had always been on very fair
terms.

< Well, to tell the truth,' he added, lightly,
1 I've got a shivering attack on me, and would
like to come in just for a minute, and have a
drop of something before going out in this bitter
cold again.'

'I've neither fire nor spirits to give you,
Garth Trendall, and now wish you good-night.'

1 Why, Polgarth, my man, what's come over
you % You never used to be like this !'

'Why the devil don't you let me be !' exclaimed
the man, savagely, losing the control
he had hitherto striven to retain. i W T hat right
have you or anyone else to come bothering here
when you're not wanted 1 I suppose you think
I'm up to something, and want to find out what
it is.'

6 You do me wrong, Jasper ; I've sought you
out to-night from amongst many friends, because
I heard you had suffered most. I came
to tell you that what little help I can give you
I am willing to do — not only with my hands,
but I'll give you a berth aboard the Dancing
Wave, and, if that's not enough, we'll see if I
can't lend you a little money to tide over your
misfortunes.'

The man hesitated for a moment, and was
manifestly about to accept his visitor's generous
offer, when his eye caught the gleam of the
light of the inner room, and he turned away as
if trying to resist some impulse, good or evil.

You're a good man, Garth Trendall, and I

thank you for your offer, but T tell you again I
don't need the help of you or any other man.
When I do I'll ask you.'

It may be too late then,' said Trendall, turning
as he spoke and walking rapidly back in the
direction of his own cottage.

Polgarth followed him to the doorway, and
watched his figure receding through the darkness
; then, turning inward again, he carefully
fastened up the sail that had been half-torn
down, and with utmost speed shoved into his
inner pocket a small package. Then, lifting
up a broken slab of stone near the fire-place, he
shoved something like a belt in below it, and
stamped the stone down again into its original
position, finally pulling over it one end of a
heavy sea-chest. Having put out the light,
he pinned a piece of paper, on which be had
already written some words, to the wall,
where they would catch the eye of anyone
entering, and then went softly out into the
night, and struck off in the direction of Ortho.
The written message was merely to say that he
had gone into Ortho for money that was owing

to him, and that he would be back in the course
of the next day.

This being so, why was it that Jasper Pol-garth
kept glancing furtively behind him every
now and then, either as if his superstitious fears
had been aroused, or as if that worst of all
spectres, his conscience, would not let him
pursue his way in peace ?

While Jasper Polgarth tramped over the cliffs
towards Ortho, the wearied inhabitants of St.
Aphra slept soundly. Among the first to awake
was Mary Trendall, anxious about her husband,
and also about the poor castaway in the next
room. A glance showed her that Garth was
sleeping the slumber of fatigue, and not of
illness, so, having dressed herself quietly, she
went into the next room to see if perchance
the stranger should be awake and hungry.
As she half-expected, she found him lying with
wide-open eyes, and was pleased by the look
of recognition that came into them upon her
entry.

Did you say that I had been wrecked, or
have I dreamt its

No, it's true,' replied Mrs. Trendall, in a
surprised tone ; ' can't you remember yet that
you were recently aboard a ship V

'I remember nothing,' said the stranger,
quietly, with a pathetic look in his eyes. ' I
know nothing save that I am lying in a bed ina
strange room, and am tended by a kindly but
strange person.'

6 Dear me, my good sir, — for I see you're a
gentleman by your speech — surely you knows
where you corned from V

i I do not know where I came from — nor how
I came, nor whither I am bound, and, alas, not
even what my name is.'

Instead of being greatly surprised, a look
like a shadow stole over Mary's fair face ! the
thought coming into her mind that this man
must, indeed, have something about himself he
was eager to conceal, since he should endeavour
to gain his ends by such a strange, and, to her,
improbable story.

But it so came about that the stranger found
a home at the cottage of the Trendalls.

Day after day went past without the faintest

return of memory coming to the unfortunate
man — the past was an absolute tabula rasa,
on which no impression remained. Trendall
and others of the fishermen tried by many
means to start some clue that would enable him
to thread even one of the mazy by-ways of
memory, but with no other result than sorely
perplexing the stranger.

It was not long ere Garth Trendall discovered
that his uninvited guest was a man far superior
to any whom he had ever met ; and when, after
a fortnight had passed without any reminiscence
coming to the latter — and he had that morning
expressed his intention of no longer burdening
his kind friends, but of wandering inland —
Trendall took him aside and made a suggestion,
which the good sense of the stranger made him
adopt at once.

First and foremost, sir, you're not to leave
us till your memory comes back again. You'd
be no better off in Ortho, or even in Truro, than
here, for, the bigger the place is, the smaller's
the charity of those that live in it. Now, I and
the others have been thinking that you might

make us some return for what we've been able
to do for you.'

What you yourself have been able to do,
you mean.'

Well, well, that may be ; but the proposal
is this : That you should stay with us, that is,
with my wife and myself, and that you should
act as schoolmaster here — for our children get
no schooling save in the summer months, excepting
what they get from their own parents,
which is mighty little. Everyone in St. Ephraim
willing and able to pay a small amount for
this purpose, and out of this fund you may be
able to save enough to help you some day to
getting away from here whenever your memory
returns.'

The stranger took Trendall's hand in his own,
pressed it gratefully, and answered, simply,

I will only too gladly do this thing.'

CHAPTER II.

MR. Strangers FINDS OUT WHAT THE INITIALS
H. A.' STAND FOR.

Months and years elapsed and brought little
change to the people of St. Aphra — or rather, it
should be said, no perceptible change ; for
slowly and surely a new influence permeated
the spiritual atmosphere of the place. The old,
perhaps, felt it most, and they all knew that
they owed much of this new peace to Mr.
Strangeways. For by this name they had
elected to call him, and he had willingly
adopted it.

As the most unfamiliar thing loses its strangeness
sooner or later, so ere a very long period
had elapsed the fisher-folk of St. Aphra ceased

to speculate as to the antecedents of Mr. Strange-ways,
and finally came to cease wondering if he
would ultimately regain his memory or not.

One day, some ten years after he had settled
down & as the schoolmaster of St. Aphra, Garth
Trendall ventured to speak to him on his private
affairs.

You have lived so very quietly, sir, and what
with the money you have laid by from teaching,
and from the sale of drawings to summer
visitors at Ortho, you must have enough to pay
your way to London, and there, I suppose, you
would find some one who knew you. I'm saying
this for your own sake, and, Heaven knows,
sorely against my own wish and that of all St.
Aphra. But I'm afraid you're ailing here, and
that doing your duty in the noble way you dois
not enough for you, since it is not that duty
to which you were naturally called.'

1 1 have often thought of going away, Randall
; and yet why should I ? Suppose that I
were to find out something about my past
(though hardly in London, my friend — where
my effort would be something like looking fora

ring I had dropped into mid-ocean), it might
only bring back great suffering and sorrow. It
is strange that, though I can recollect nothing,
I am quite convinced that my life was no happy
one. What makes me eager to know all, sometimes,
is the fear that wrong or sorrow may bethe
portion of some one whose burden would be
lighter if 1, in my right person, so to speak,
were even now to be able to declare myself.
On the whole, it is wiser for me not to trouble
myself too much. I am old-fashioned enough
to believe with you, Trendall, that our lives are
in great part moulded for us, sometimes mainly
for our own good, sometimes mainly for that of
others ; and so I prefer to rest content in the
assurance that, if a passive one, I am still indubitably
an instrument for some purpose.'

And in this belief Mr. Strangeways remained
as year after year joined that uneventful decade
which had already elapsed.

Good fortune had, in the main, attended Garth
Trendall, and he was able to do something towards
carrying out some of the small schemes
he and his friend used to talk over and arrange

through the long winter evenings ; but far better
fortune than happened to anyone else came to
Jasper Polgarth. Prosperity, however, did not
improve him. He became silent and morose,
and at last left the village for Ortho.

It was in the summer succeeding Polgarth's
departure that one day Mr. Strangeways met a
young artist on the Beacon Cliff, in whose work
he was very much interested. After some desultory
conversation, the young man asked him
if accommodation for one night could be obtained
at St. Aphra, and after a little it was arranged
that the artist should accompany Mr. Strange-ways
home.

In the course of the evening the young fellow
talked much about his art, and his prospects,
and his home. But, after all his light-hearted
chattering, all that Mr. Strangeways could remember
was the name and birth-place of his
new acquaintance.

I am a Scotchman,' the latter had said ; i I
am a Scotchman, and I come from Dundee,
though it's little of my life, save being
born, that I've spent there. My father, Hugh

Armstrong, is a large wood merchant there.'

6 High Armstrong ' — ' Dundee. ' Why did
these two names keep haunting him so, wondered
Mr. Strange ways; why were they more
curiously familiar than * James Macdonald ' —
Edinburgh ;' or any other names of persons
or places that he had for many years heard
mentioned, or which he had come across in
books ?

This incident affected him strangely for a
time, but in less than a month it had become
nothing more than an incident, and was erelong
practically forgotten. Two years later —
in the spring — a lad from Ortho came over in a
gig to St. Aphra, and asked to be directed to
the house of Mr. Strangeways.

What do you want with Mr. Strangeways V
inquired the person asked.

1 be from Mr. Polgarth's, wi' word for
he.'

This surprising intelligence was soon all over
the village, but no one was more astonished
than the recipient of the message.

The boy handed to the schoolmaster a piece
VOL. III. M

of paper sealed up into an envelope. Opening
this out, Mr. Strangeways read :

Come, if you possibly can. I am dying, and
I want to see you.

'Jasper Polgarth.'

A summons from a dying man was not to be
disregarded, but in any case the schoolmaster
of St. Aphra was not the man to refuse any
reasonable request which it was in his power
to grant, and where acquiescence would give
pleasure.

In a few minutes he had joined the bearer of
the message, and was driven rapidly along the
level cliff-road towards Ortho. On the way he
learned that Mr. Polgarth had not been succeeding
at all, that he was broken down with sorrow
at the death of his son, and at his daughter's
ruin (both events news to Mr. Strangeways),
and that he had lately rapidly sunk under some
mysterious complaint, from which there seemed
no hope of recovery. After the gig had drawn
up at the door, Mr. Strangeways had to wait
some time before he could see the man who had

sent for him; more than once his quick ears
caught what sounded like a tone of supplication,
and once he distinctly heard a voice that he
knew saying,

I cannot see him — I cannot see him !'
But after waiting at least a ,
a man came downstairs, and, having introduced
himself as Dr. Young, told Mr. Strange-ways
that he could go up and see Polgarth.
When the visitor entered the dark and close
little room where the dying man lay, he noticed
that the latter turned aside his head at the
moment he entered ; so, after waiting a few
moments to see if any word would come from
Polgarth, he went up to the bedside, and, laying
his hand gently on the latter's shoulder, asked
what it was he had wished to see him about.

Turning suddenly round, the man exclaimed,
in a tone of uncontrollable eagerness,

6 You have been happy all these years, haven't
you, Mr. Strangeways V

Happy ? 1 don't quite know what you mean ? '

I mean, have you been happy throughout
these eighteen years or more which you have

M 2

spent at St. Aphra — do you regret having had
the rest and peace of this long period V

I have been content,' was the reply.

I have done you a cruel wrong, Mr. Strange-ways
— such a wrong as I do not think that even
you will find it easy to forgive. I am a dying
man, sir, and would fain not leave this world
without attempting to confess my iniquity — and
fain would I have your forgiveness also, if that
were possible.'

What is it that I have to forgive you, Jasper
Polgarthf

Mr. Strangeways,' exclaimed the man, half
rising from the bed in Iris excitement, 'what
would you say if it were told you that all through
these years I have held the clue to the mystery
of your past V

A long silence intervened, a silence terrible to
the man who had just spoken. Mr. Strange-ways
turned away his head, and Polgarth could
see by the working of the muscles in the averted
face how strong was the emotion of this quiet
and self-possessed man.

J Speak,' was at last the reply in a stern voice.

4 Will you — can you forgive me, Mr. Strange-ways
V

Speak, Jasper Polgarth.'

On that night when Garth Trendall pulled
ye out of the surge at the mouth of the Slice, I
was the man nearest to him, and, just as he and
you were dragged ashore in good time, I caught
sight of something fall from your waist, or perhaps
from Trendall's grasp. While the rest of
them were all stooping over you and him, I
caught sight of the same object hurled in on the
next wave, and in a moment I gave a grab at it
and secured it. I don't know what made me
act as I did, beyond saying that the devil
tempted me. I swear I had no thought of evil
at the moment. But after that awful night,
when I found my smack destroyed, and my
house half blown in, and when I had got my
wife and children put safely elsewhere, I returned
to my place, and then I opened the leather belt
which I had snatched from the surge. In the
right pouch I found a thick row of notes, and in
the left nothing but a letter. I took a sudden
horror of the thing, but already the poison had

entered into me. Before I left that night, I
buried the belt and the letter in a secure place,
and at once went off to Ortho with the notes.
You know the rest. All the money which I
took from that belt — and it was a large sum — a
larger sum than any fisherman of St. Aphra ever
had — was spent long ago, and, alas, even now I
can do nothing to replace it, for, as you've heard,
doubtless, I'm a ruined man.'

I care nothing for the money you took from
me, Jasper Polgarth ; but you have robbed me
of nigh upon twenty years of my life, and God
knows what suffering you may have caused to
others as well as to myself. Man, did it never
in all these years strike you to repair the cruel
wrong you have done. Where is that letter —
what does it say V

It is here, Mr. Strangeways, here below this
very pillow ; but I have one last request to make
to you. The doctor says I can't possibly live
out the week, and, after all the long waiting you
have had, a few more days can make little
difference to you. Will you wait till after I am
dead before you open this letter V

Jasper Polgarth saw Mr. Strangeways as no
one in St. Aphra had ever seen him in all these
Long years. A look of mingled fury, scorn, and
fear swept over his face, absolutely bloodless as
the latter was.

How dare you ask such a thing of me ?
Do you think that because I have been silent
all these years I have not suffered bitterly,
knowing what evil things might be happening
on account of my absence. Do you think, man,
that if a prisoner who had been kept twenty
years in a cell were told that the last day of his
sentence had come round at last, he would take
it easily if the governor informed him that, after
having been in prison for twenty years, a few
more days of confinement couldn't matter to
him ? No, Jasper Polgarth, 1 feel now that a
day, nay, that even an hour, must not be lost.
Give me that letter,'

Forgive me, forgive me !' cried the man, in
an agony of contrition ; 1 1 will not give it to
you until you forgive mc.'

Then, for the first and last time in his life,
Mr. Strangeways committed a cowardly action.

Stooping, he thrust his hand below the pillow on
which lay the dying and vainly-resisting man,
heedless of the latter's vain prayers and clutching
fingers. The next moment he withdrew a
small packet, his eye at once catching the
address upon it, which was to him by his present
name, at his house in St. Aphra.

'Whose writing is this?' he exclaimed,
abruptly.

That is mine, Mr. Strangeways ; give me
back that letter, or I will brand you as a thief.
Do you hear me V

Then, as the wretched man saw that his visitor
was about to hurry from the room, he screamed
out,

'Forgive me, forgive me — I am dying.'
Mr. Strangeways hesitated a moment ere he
stooped to pass through the low doorway. Once
again came the cry of the dying man, this time
with that gurgling sob in its sound, which is
always so horribly significant.

Come back, come back ! forgive me, as you
hope to be forgiven.' Then, with one last
despairing effort — ' Come back, Hew Armitage V

As an osprey swoops from a rock, so Mr.
Strangeways sprang to the side of Jasper
Pol garth.

6 What do you say — what do you say V he
cried, wildly. ' What voice out of the past is
that which I heard ? Speak, man, speak — what
name was that by which you called me V

A shiver passed through the limbs of Polgarth,
and three or four bead-like drops suddenly stood
upon his forehead, but he made no answer.

Jasper Polgarth was dead — the one man who
knew anything of his past. For a moment Mr.
Strangeways forgot all about the letter, and
thought only of the man lying there stiff and
quiet before him.

Suddenly he looked around, as if seeing or
expecting to see some one beside him.

I forgive you, Jasper Polgarth.'

The words had a hollow sound as they echoed
through that silent chamber of death. No mortal
ears heard them save those of Mr. Strange-ways
himself, but none the less, perhaps, the
words came with a blessed relief to him for
whom they had been spoken.

As in a dream, Mr. Strange-ways turned
and left the room, telling the boy he found
in the shop below that his master was
dead, and that he had better go and tell Dr.
Young.

The gig in which he had been driven over
from St. Aphra had been taken away by the
boy who had brought it, but it was doubtful if
Mr. Strangeways even noted its absence.
He strode rapidly through the ill-paved streets
of the little town, across the high-arched
stone bridge, and then struck across the cliffs
on the white level road that led towards St.
Aphra. His brain was in a whirl — his life-blood
seemed to be surging through it and his heart
with an energy that overwhelmed all other
thought or emotion.

It was one of those glorious days in the
youth of the year, when even the flowers seem
to give forth in their fragrance some faint, faraway
suggestion of music. The trailing vetch
which ran among the clover and over the small
lichened boulders, held a constant subdued hum
where the young bees lingered. Above the

sprouting grasses rose tall moon-daisies, their
yellow discs gleaming almost as blithely as the
golden sheen of the kingcups. The first spring-gold
of the gorse came out among its thorny
branches, and in dozens of places across the
heathy summit of the cliff came that sweetest of
cries, the familiar tone of the yellow-hammer.
But to-day he took no notice of the deep, blue,
unclouded sky or the great stretch of windless
sea ; heard neither voice of yellow-hammer nor
lark, nor sea-mew's wail ; noticed neither tall
marguerite nor dewy violet in the short, crisp
grass of the cliff summit. In his ears there was
a sound like thunder, a name that was reiterated
again and again with what was to him overwhelming
persistency. If unconsciously he
heard the natural sounds around him, they
but shaped themselves into repetitions of
this same word. The faint inland wind
breathed it; the subdued beat of the sea on
the sands far below murmured it ; even the
sea-mews, as they passed overhead, seemed to
wail it forth.

1 Hew Armitage — Hew Armitage — Hew

Armitage !' only these two words — nothing
more — yet Air. Strangeways knew that no
longer was the past to be a sealed mystery to
him. He knew that these words had been the
key which had unlocked a door through which
he was now bound to pass.

But as the wildly though vaguely excited
man reached that part of the seaward path
the Beacon Cliff which led almost by the very
edge of the heights, and as he saw the calm
blue sea sleeping far below his feet, he started
back with a cry, almost as if he had escaped
a death which would not have been wholly
involuntary.

Throwing himself down on the short sweet
grass along the top of the cliff, he buried his face
in his arms, his whole frame racked with deep
sobs. As in a dream all the past was becoming
a memory — not yet, indeed, a reality, but a
memory of sufficient sorrow and bitterness to
cause the strong man to give way. As some
spirit who, while on earth, had undergone extremity
of suffering, might at some unexpected
moment in its new life awaken to recollection of

all that it had gone through before its release
from the flesh, so was it with Hew Armitage.
He saw dimly the tragedy, the long agony of
his terrible past, and, because he knew it to be
his own past, the tears, the sobs of revived
sorrow came from him with new bitterness.
But not yet did he realise that the white-haired
schoolmaster of St. Aphra and the Hew Armytage
of the past were one and the same ; not
yet did he comprehend that after his long forgetfulness
he had awakened to the old life once
more.

At last he sat up again, and, withdrawing the
letter from his pocket, opened the envelope.

It was the letter, dated twenty years back,
that Dr. Steele had written to Hew Armitage
in Australia, telling him of the death of his
wife, and of the sad uselessness of his long
and trying voyage, stating also the writer's
belief that the child was alive, though as yet
he had been unable to find any clue to its
whereabouts.

This part of the letter came upon the reader
with a sudden shock ; he had forgotten all

about the little daughter that had been born
to Mona and himself, and now he realised that
possibly the child might be living even at that
moment, though, of course, no longer a child.

Strangely enough, he now dwelt more on the
latest and less poignant experiences of his past
life. He remembered having sailed from Melbourne
in . the Macedon, of having had a long
and wearisome homeward voyage, during which
he had sunk into a deep and apparently hopeless
depression, and the beginning of the last
catastrophe ; and, finally, he recollected that,
without any special desire to live, yet with a
natural instinct, he had stripped himself ere the
ship was dashed to pieces, and had fastened
round his waist a belt containing the often-read
letter from Dr. Steele and a large sum of money
in notes.

Before Mr. Strange ways rose and walked
homeward from the Beacon Cliff he had left that
later personality behind him for ever. The old
energy of his nature had returned, and he
was once more and henceforth, whether he
willed it so or not, Hew Armitage.

Curious eyes were cast at him as he walked
rapidly past several of the cottages in the direction
of the Trendalls', for already a rumour had
got bruited about that some strange news had
come to the schoolmaster, and that he was like
one moonstruck in consequence.

An hour or so later Garth Trendall came forth,
and told a few eager listeners that something-had
brought back Mr. Strangeways' memory,
and that he had, after long deliberation, decided
on leaving them.

He told me to tell you, lads, that if these
many years that have gone by have brought
too many changes for him to be of any use in
his own sphere of life, he will return to St.
Aphra and be Mr. Strangeways once more.
But if he finds that duty and inclination prompt
him to remain in his native parts, and among
his own kindred, then he will still come back
again, but only for a visit, and to say farewell.
I am to tell you nothing of his strange
and sad story till after I have heard from him
from Scotland.'

From Scotland !' one or two muttered, as if

the speaker had referred to America or India.
If all is well with him, I Avill let you know
what he has confided to me ; otherwise, he wishes
his secret to remain a secret. But I may tell
you — what, indeed, we all guessed must be the
case — that he is a gentleman of rank. We know
nothing about rank — but everyone in St. Aphra
knows that he is a true gentleman, such an one
as we have never seen before, and are not likely
to see again.'

Early next morning Hew Armitage — and
already his late name seemed unfamiliar to him
left St. Aphra, before noon reached Truro, and
in due time arrived in London. Garth Trendall,
at his friend's special request, accompanied him,
for not only was Mr. Strangeways (as for a short
while longer he intended to call himself) frail,
but he was weak with excitement ; and, moreover,
it would be all the better for him to have
a witness.

It seemed to him a long time before one
bright spring morning he reached Dundee.
He had been too much pre-occupied with his

past to heed the strangeness of his new circumstances,
even his one night in London having
stirred him little ; but to Garth Trendall everything
was wonderful and full of interest interest.
From the journey from Truro to London
(he had never been in a railway carriage before)
to the arrival in the northern town, he was in
one continuous dreamlike state of amazement.
The noise and griminess of London, as he saw
it, simply appalled him, but the country and
the glimpses afforded of towns and villages,
delighted him greatly.

After having some breakfast, Mr. Strange-ways
and his companion went at once to the
office of the lawyers who long ago had transacted
all his business for him.

Yes,' he was told, ' Mr. Hannay is in, and is
disengaged. What name shall I say V

'Mr. Strangeways.'

When the latter entered the well-remembered
sanctum, he looked eagerly at the occupant, but
to his disappointment saw a middle-aged man
with unfamiliar features.

'Are you — are you — Mr. Hannay?'

VOL. III. N

1 am, sir. Perhaps you are confusing me
with one of my partners, Mr. Murray or Mr.
Johnston V

A sudden thought occurred to the visitor.

Excuse me, but you are not Mr. Douglas
Hannay V

No, sir, that is my father's name. But he
has practically retired from the firm, and only
comes into Dundee now and again. Are you a
friend of his V

I knew him well long ago, and now wish to
see him on a matter of great importance.'

Well, it so happens that he is in Mr.
Murray's room at present, and I will — ah !
here is the very man himself. This gentleman,
Mr. Strange ways, wants to speak with you,
tare

The two men looked at each other for some
moments, after the mutual bow, without
speaking.

Have you wholly forgotten me V at last said
the stranger, sadly, in a low voice.

Mr. Hannay looked keenly at him, then shook
his head doubtfully, muttering the while

1 Strange ways — Strangeways — no, I never knew
the name

It is not my name that yon are trying to
recall. Yon once knew my real one well.
But look again before I tell you who I am.'

A minute passed, when suddenly a startled
light came into old Mr. Hannay's eyes.

'What — good heavens! — no, it cannot be I
It is impossible, wholly impossible. You are
not — you dare not say that you are Hew
Armitage V

< I am Hew Armitage.'

8 Hew Armitage ! Hew Armitage who was
drowned close upon twenty years ago 1 If
not drowned, and indeed Hew Armitage, why,
in Heaven's name, this late revealment of yourself
V

i I will tell you all my sad story in good time,
and I have much to learn from you. But you
do indeed recognise me, Douglas Hannay V

1 I do, I do, my poor friend ! Good heavens,
how you have changed ! You look an older man
than I do, though I must be twenty years your
senior.'

n2

Hannay, Hannay, my daughter, is she '

You have turned up in the nick of time, Hew
Armitage.'

CHAPTER III.

THE TURNING OF THE TIDE.

About a week after Mr. Farquhar's declaration
of war, and Lora's scornful acceptance thereof,
the latter got a telegram which sent a glad
light into her violet-blue eyes, at the same time
that a flush lit up her fair face.

The telegram had arrived at the breakfast
hour, and naturally attracted universal attention.

Sir John looked up anxiously, for every day
he expected to hear of some hurtful step taken
by Lora's guardian ; but he smiled as he saw
her blush and the quick look she cast around
the table.

1 Why, Lora, my dear, that must be from a
certain foolish young man ? He must have had
a wonderfully quick passage.'

It is from Liverpool, dear Sir John, and he
says '

4 Who says — who says?' was the laughing
chorus from young and old.

And he says he will be here this evening !
Oh ! I'm so glad ! I didn't expect him here for
another week yet !'

All day Lora went about in a dream — an
exquisite, happy dream — for was not her lover
coming home well and strong and eager to see
her again ? When a ring came to the doorbell
late that afternoon, Lora at once jumped
up from the sofa where she was sitting by the
side of Lady Ramsay, crying, ' That's Edward
at last !'

Why, how do you know, you foolish child V
exclaimed the latter; but Lora was right all the
same, and a moment or two later was in her
lover's arms.

What happy moments there were thereafter ;
with what shy grace she clung to the man whom
she so loved, and yet whom she in a sense knew
so slightly; how he held her at arm's length
again and again, glad beyond measure to see

once more the girl he loved, and at the same time
to note how lovelier than ever she had grown.

During dinner there was a host of things to
talk about, but, as the new arrival noticed,
mostly connected with himself or with mutual
acquaintances, and with little or no reference to
Lora or the Ramsay s themselves.

After dinner the two lovers went into the
studio, from where Sir John laughingly declared
he was being shamefully ousted.

'You of course heard, Edward, dear,' said
Lora, * of the death of my poor old granny, Mrs.
M'lanf

Yes, of course I did, my darling ; you wrote
to me yourself about it, Lora, and told me how
it was arranged you were to accompany the
Ramsay home here, adding the important postscript
that Mrs. M'lan had left behind her a
communication for you, which you were to read
as soon as you came of age. If you have written
me anything of importance since then, I
have never received the letter.'

Then I will tell you all that has happened
since,' said Lora.

It was nearly an hour before her narration
came to an end ; not that the account of all that
had transpired down to Mr. Farquhar's declaration
of war would in itself have occupied anything
like this time, but because of the frequent
interludes that one of the twain found to be
absolutely necessary, and which both seemed
to relish extremely.

Edward Duncan was furiously indignant at
what he heard concerning Mr. Farquhar's behaviour,
but the measure cf his wrath was
strongly qualified by the extreme interest he
naturally felt in Lora's change of circumstances.

1 1 am certain he said, ' there's something
queer about that guardian of yours. Why
should he be so very desirous of preventing
your marriage with one he has never seen, and
of whom he knows nothing ? Why, it almost
looks like as if he wanted to marry you himself.'

Perhaps that was his reason, Edward remarked
Lora, shyly.

What do you mean, Lora ? You are not in
earnest, surely?'

Yes, dear, I am ; and, if you ask Sir John

about what Mr. Farquhar said concerning you,,
and as to how he behaved towards me on a
certain evening in this house, I think you will
understand what good cause I have for disliking
my guardian on personal grounds alone.
But I do hope, Ned, that you won't do anything
foolish on the spur of the moment, for I am
quite certain that with a man like my guardian
it is better to await the course of events than
to attempt anything against him.'

That depends on circumstances, Lora. I
can assure you that, if I find he has been lying
to you about me, or that he has forgotten himself
towards you in a shameful way, then I shall
consider myself justified in paying a special
visit to this remarkably loyal and generous
friend of your father's. And now let us talk of
ourselves

This they did so effectually that the next
hour or two slipped by almost unnoticed ; and,
when Lady Ramsay looked in to say goodnight,
Lora laughingly declared that she did not
wish to see Mr. Duncan for another month, as
she had told him everything she had to say.

After his sweetheart had left him, Duncan was
joined by Sir John, and immediately after they
had lit their cigars, the young man asked his
companion as to what Mr. Farquhar had said to
Lora concerning him, and as to how he had
behaved to Lora.

Sir John told him about the story which Mr.
Farquhar had trumped up — a story, added Sir
John, bearing its own refutation on the face of it.

As to how Lora was insulted by him, I only
know that she practically forbade him the house
in consequence of something he had said or
done, exactly what Lora never told either Lady
Kamsay or myself.'

Despite Edward Duncan's happiness at once
more being beside the girl he loved, he felt he
could not rest until he had seen this Mr. Farquhar.
With considerable difficulty, he found
out, first, the lawyers who were the latter's
agents, and then from them his latest town
address. To the latter he went at once, but
found the handsome rooms in Torphichen Street
tenanted only by an old woman, who told him
that Mr. Farquhar was staying in the country at
present.

Where is the place in which he is staying V

It's called Firnie Knowe, sir, and is somewhere
in the neighbourhood o' Dundee.'

Determined to put off no time, Edward sent
off a telegram to Grant Square stating that he
would not be there till late in the evening, and
possibly not till the next morning. Thereafter,
he went straight to Princes Street station, but
found he had an hour to wait before the
departure of the afternoon train to Dundee.

It was after sundown when he reached the
latter town. Accordingly, it was dark by the
time he had reached the small station of Firnie
by a local train from Dundee. Having received
the necessary directions as to the way to Firnie
Knowe, he struck up the long avenue-like road,
which led through tangled hedgerows towards
the main-road to Dunluiart. The evening was
still and exceptionally mild, but not yet did
that most summery of sounds fill the air — the
harsh cry of the corncrake, though here and
there swooped the blurred figure of a night-jar
or rapidly-twisting bat. A light was shining
in the lodge at the end of the long south avenue,
but Duncan took no notice thereof, and ere long

reached the lawn in front of the old house itself.

Just as he was about to go up to the porch
and ring the bell, he caught sight of a gleam of
moving light across the smooth sward which
curved round the house, between it and the
gardens. By an unaccountable impulse, he
stole softly round the house till he reached
a large ilex that grew midway on the lawn in
front of the north side of the house — that on
which were situated the library and ante-room
of the drawing-room. The gleam of light which
he had seen came from the former, and he could
just descry a figure moving about therein. Seeing
that no blind obscured the window, he
determined to approach closer.

When he drew close to the broad French
window, he crouched amid the fragrant lilac
boughs that fell in a thick screen half way
across the lower part of the window. From
his position he easily saw the greater part
of the room, though at first the occupant was
hidden from sight, as he was at the inner end
of it, where was the fireplace. Within the
next few moments, however, the man whom he

had seen from the ilex passed rapidly to and
fro. From the description he had received
from Lora, he knew at once that this was Mr.
Farquhar, though he was surprised to note how
handsome, and even refined-looking, the man
seemed, and also how considerably younger than
his presumed age.

What was he about, wondered his watcher,
as Mr. Farquhar stooped every here and there
apparently putting away certain objects in secret
places. Once he stooped, and, touching a spring
in an old-fashioned cabinet, pulled open a drawer,
which he wrenched back, and then, with a chisel,
forced open the door of the escritoire. He apparently
already knew the contents, for he seemed
only desirous to find out if there were no secret
draw r hers anywhere. At least half-an-hour was
spent by Mr. Farquhar in carefully examining the
measurements of everything inside the escritoire ;
but at last he seemed convinced that nothing had
escaped him. Duncan saw him smile to himself
with a peculiar look, which, having once seen,
the former felt he should never forget.

What was this that Mr. Farquhar kept putting

so methodically inside the escritoire — apparently
acting for the same purpose as he had done with
other parts of the room % What could it mean ?
wondered the young man ; for he saw that Mr.
Farquhar was unmistakably carrying out some
definite plan, and that, moreover, he was calculating
every single thing he did.

All at once a terrible suspicion flashed over
his mind ; he hardly dared to believe that this
man would take such a devilish revenge.

At that moment a rake, which a gardener had
left leaning against the lilac-bush, fell with a
crash on the gravelled pathway. Duncan saw
Mr. Farquhar start back like one changed into
stone ; the next moment he had sprung towards
the window, and Edward was just in time to
spring into his leafy shelter when the window
was thrown back with a crash, and Mr. Farquhar
called out, in an authoritative tone,

< Who is there V

From where he crouched Edward could see
that Lora's guardian grasped in his right hand
a revolver, and it must be confessed the young
man felt exceedingly uncomfortable, owing to

the fact that the weapon pointed directly towards
himself, and might at any moment go
off; but at the same time he realised he would
have still less chance for his life if Mr. Farquhar
discovered him.

Suddenly he noticed that the latter's gaze
became intent, and again he heard him cry out,

Stop there, I see you.' No answer. Edward
thought he heard a faint rustling sound beyond
the ilex from which he had lately crept, and the
same moment he saw Mr. Farquhar raise his
right arm in readiness to fire.

Again no answer, but a dark shadow as of a
stooping man moved swiftly across the upper
part of the lawn.

Crack ! a crash following thereafter ; and then
a sharp, sudden cry, and the person at whom
Mr. Farquhar had fired made no longer a moving
shadow across the dimly moonlit sward.

Springing hastily from the window-ledge the
latter ran in the direction whence the cry had
come, and for a minute or two he was lost to
Duncan's view owing to the darkly-spreading
boughs of the great ilex. Ere long Mr. Farquhar

returned, walking slowly, and lingering
awhile on the lawn, as though expecting to
see one or other of the gardeners hastening to
find out the cause of the shot. But either the
latter had been unheard, or no attention was
going to be taken of it, for no one approached.
As Mr. Farquhar crossed the gravel path he
stooped and lifted the fallen rake, thrusting it
savagely into the heart of the great lilac bush
beside him. It struck something soft, but with
swift presence of mind Duncan made some
slight motion sufficient to enable the handle to
pass from his side underneath his arm, and so
further in among the branches.

Curse the thing, it gave me a fright,' muttered
Mr. Farquhar, as he stepped across the
window-ledge. ' Well, I will need to look
alive, or I'll waste half the night in setting
about this business.'

He closed the window after him, and with
great deliberation fastened up the shutters, so
that no longer any gleam of light betrayed
what was going on inside. Duncan realised
that there was no use of his staying there any

longer, and also that it would never do for him
to be too late in having his interview with
Lora's guardian — and he certainly had no desire
to pass the night in the same house with that
gentleman.

At the same time he felt that he must exercise
extreme caution in leaving his present
shelter. For all he knew, Mr. Farquhar might
still be suspicious, and might be secretly watching
the lawn from some point where he could
see anyone that might attempt to cross it.
Then, again, he felt that he could not in common
charity leave the place without finding
out the fate of the unfortunate person whose
death-cry still rang in his ears. At last, with
extreme caution, he crept out from amidst
the fragrant lilac boughs, and stole rapidly
in the direction of the ilex, once safely
beneath whose shade he turned and took a
careful scrutiny of the house. No gleam of
light was observable anywhere, though he
fancied that once or twice a momentary pin-point
of light shone through some chink in the
shutters of the long room, to the right of that

VOL. III.

in which he had seen Mr. Farquhar. Feeling
so far reassured, he ran swiftly in the direction
whence he had heard the cry, and this time he
thought he had betrayed himself indeed. For,
just as he had crossed the upper end of the
lawn, where it was deeply overshadowed by an
avenue of limes and chestnuts, he tripped over
a still warm body, and fell heavily against some
slim pole bearing red earthenware pots, placed
there for insects. They fell to the ground
with what seemed to Duncan a terribly loud
crash, and, as he lay half stunned to the
ground, he every moment expected to hear Mr.
Farquhar running towards him with his loaded
revolver.

No sound came, however, either from the
house or from the body over which he tripped ;
so, after intently listening for a few minutes,
he rose and looked about him. Edward Duncan
was no coward, but he was unarmed,
and he felt assured that such a man as he
was certain Mr. Farquhar was would not hesitate
to use his weapon against him without
the least compunction. Just then his eye

caught sight of the dark mass lying a few feet
away from him, and he saw at once that it
could not be a man.

Perhaps it's some poor lad,' he muttered,
but the next moment he saw that Mr. Farquhar's
deadly aim had only brought down a prowling
fox.

With a feeling of relief he left the unfortunate
animal, and walked rapidly, but as silently ashe
could, round to the front of the house,
where he rang the bell with a loud clang. The
door was answered in due time by a fine-looking
old woman of an unmistakably east-country
type. Duncan knew that this must be
Mrs. Fyfe, but did not address her by her name,
only stating that he wanted to see Mr. Farquhar
on business.

What name, sir, shall I say V

4 Oh, he doesn't know me ; say simply that I
am a gentleman who wants to see him on a
matter of business.'

In a few minutes Mrs. Fyfe returned, saying
that her master was in the smoking-room, and
would be glad to see the visitor there. As



Duncan entered the room he instinctively noted
that Mr. Farquhar had so placed himself as to
keep a table between himself and his unexpected
guest.

To what do I owe the honour of a visit at
this late hour V inquired Lora's guardian.

'You owe it, Mr. Farquhar, to certain remarks
of your own concerning me. My name is
Edward Duncan.'

Mr. Farquhar started, but almost simultaneously
he regained his self-control, though a
strange, sombre light came into his eyes, and a
peculiar, flickering smile wreathed about his
thin lips.

His visitor also noticed that he put his right
hand negligently on the edge of the billiard-table,
just above one of the chalk-rests, where,
Edward felt assured, lay in readiness the weapon
which had already been used that night

Ah, Edward Duncan? Let me see, you're
the young man who had the audacity to engage
yourself to Miss Lora Armitage.'

At this sneer Duncan flushed angrily.

'What do you mean by audacity? Let me

tell you, Mr. Farquhar, that I have come here to
demand an explanation of previous insults, not
to endure fresh ones.'

Well, young man, tell me what you want,
and be quick about it.'

1 I want to know on what authority you told
Miss Armitage that lying story as to my
behaviour to some poor girl in Edinburgh.'

I decline to tell you, Mr. Duncan.'

'Because you cannot, you cowardly scoundrel
!'

It might be more advisable for you, Mr.
Duncan, to restrain your impulsive temper. I
am not the man to permit a person of your
character to speak to me thus. I have made
ample inquiries about you, sir, with the result
that 1 am determined to emphatically forbid my
ward's marriage with you.'

6 1 fail to recognise your right to decide one
way or another.'

'And I fail to see what right you have to come
bothering me here. I tell you once and for all,
Mr. Duncan, that I will not and cannot consent
to your further engagement to my ward ; and,

further than this, I beg yon to understand that I
am desirous of having any further communication
with you at all.'

I won't detain you long, Mr. Farquhar, but I
simply want to say that an explanation I must
and will have as to your story concerning
myself.'

This I am quite willing to do when I return
to town, because there I shall be able to produce
the unfortunate girl in question.'

The young artist seemed quite taken aback at
the barefaced audacity.

You are the most consummate liar I have
ever met with,' he said at last. ' Then, as to
the way in which you behaved towards Miss
Armitage — if you were not a much older man,
and nominally Lora's guardian — I should give
you the thrashing you deserve.'

A scornful smile flitted across Mr. Farquhar's
face, but he took no further notice of
the remark.

But one thing at any rate I can do, and that
is to absolutely forbid you to hold any further
oral communication with Miss Armitage except
in my presence.'

'My dear sir, you are talking like the foolish
boy you are. I think you should really go home
now, for your company is not entertaining tome,
and it is not good for young men like you
to be out late.'

Mr. Farquhar's sneering insolence roused
Duncan's quick temper to fever heat.

You'll speak to another tune before long,
Mr. Farquhar. I tell you to your face that I
do not believe that document you brought
home with you is genuine— in other words, that
it is a forgery, and that you are the forger.'

Again Mr. Farquhar smiled, but seemed in nowise
put out. Putting his hand forward to the
chalk-rest below the billiard-table, he lifted up
a revolver.

Do you see this, my good friend ! You do ?
Well, I shall expedite your departure with it if
you do not at once take yourself off.'

'Just exactly what I should expect a manlike
you to do. A coward has no other resource
but that of unequal force. However, I have
said my say. Understand me unmistakably, that
if 1 find you again speaking to Miss Armitage,
except in the presence of myself or some friend

of her own, I shall horsewhip you in the street ;
and I also give yon notice that I shall express
freely my opinion that yon are a swindler and
a scoundrel ; and, if you like, you can take
legal proceedings against me. I don't think
that, however, is very likely — the fox doesn't
go and put its head into the trap of its own
accord, as much as to say, " Snap me, if you
please." And now I have the honour of wishing
you good-evening.'

Edward left the room abruptly, but as he
entered the long hall he met Mrs. Fyfe again,
and at once asked her if she had any message
for Miss Lora Armitage.

Are you a friend of hers, sir?' asked the old
woman, eagerly.

Yes, I am. You may have heard her speak
of me. My name is Edward Duncan.'

'Ah, yes, I remember; you are a fortunate
young man. One moment, sir ; are you a friend
of Mr. Farquhar V

To be a friend of mine, a man must be a
gentleman,' replied the young man, sententiously.


4 You mean you don't like him V asked the
practical housekeeper. Then, lowering her
voice, she said, quickly, e I have indeed a message
to send, sir. I've tried hard to get away
from here to see her, but Mr. Farquhar has
always prevented me, and, though I've written a
letter with a most important message to her,
I've never heard in reply, and fear my letter's
been tampered with.'

1 Your epistolary misfortunes are doubtless
very afflicting,' said a low mocking voice behind
Mrs. Fyfe, and, looking round, the latter saw to
her consternation that Mr. Farquhar had passed
into the library from the billiard-room, by the
inner door, and that he had come out of the
former unseen, owing to the great hall pillar
that stood between them.

I am certain, my dear Mrs. Fyfe,' he went
on, in the same mocking tone, ' that it cannot
be good for you to stand talking here in this
draught. I will see this young man out — a
troublesome young person, whom I beg you to
remember is not again to be admitted.'

Have you any message, Mrs. Fyfe V asked

Duncan, taking no notice of the last speaker.

The housekeeper hesitated a moment, but
before she could reply Mr. Farquhar thundered
out, angrily,

Why don't you go, woman, when you are
told!'

A moment later Duncan found himself in the
dark avenue again, indignantly conscious that
the door had almost been slammed against him
as he turned to go out. Fuming with rage, he
strode rapidly along under the black shadows
of the elms and chestnuts of the avenue, and
soon found himself in the by-road that led
towards Firnie Station. Arrived at the latter,
he found to his consternation that the station
was locked up, and it was some time before he
found out that a short way down the line was
a signal-box. Going up the narrow, rickety
stairs, he nearly frightened the life out of the
signal-man, who, hearing a slight noise behind
him, looked round and saw a white face looking
in at the small window in the door. From this
man he learned that the night mail had gone,
and that, though several trains passed through

Firnie during the small hours of the morning,
none stopped thereat till the express, which
passed about five o'clock. He also learned that
there was no inn in the neighbourhood, and
that even at Firnie village, distant some three
or four miles, it would be almost impossible for
him to get accommodation.

You had much better go back to Firnie
Knowe, sir, and put up there for the night.'
4 I'll need to, so good-night, and many thanks.'
As Duncan walked back by the way he had
come, he had no intention of entering Firnie
Knowe again, but thought he would either put
up at the gardener's lodge, or, if this failed, in
one of the outhouses. When he reached the
lodge he came to the conclusion that it would
be wiser for him not to get the gardener into
any trouble on his account, so he determined to
skirt the gardens, and gain either stables or
some other of the outhouses. He was no longer
the delicate young man he had been a few
months before, and could risk a night's discomfort
of this kind without the probability of having
to suffer for it. Passing along a brier hedge

which skirted the upper ends of the gardens,
he came to several outhouses, the doors of
which were all unlocked, and in one of which
he found a number of sacks lying on the floor.
Throwing himself on these, he lay for some time
in that quiescent state of mind and body which
is almost sleep. But just as he was dropping
off into unconsciousness an annoying restlessness
perturbed him. He could not sleep, strive
as he might, and the more he endeavoured to
compose himself the more and more restless he
became. At last there came upon him that intolerable
sense of something painful or dreadful
being about to happen. Still he felt too fatigued
to rise and shake off the unpleasant oppression,
and it was not until a strange pungent odour
affected his nostrils that he rose to his feet and
looked out.

What extraordinary shadows there were
flickering to and fro across the sloping lawn !
Why, it must be some of the gardeners coming
home with lanterns, all, probably, a little the
worse of drink. A few steps forward convinced
him of the real state of affairs. A broad tongue

of deep crimson flame spurted intermittently
amidst curling wreaths of smoke issuing from
the lower part of the house.

Good heavens F he exclaimed, 'the house is
on fire;' and, forgetting everything in his excitement,
he ran. towards the courtyard which lay
to the right, and where he instinctively knew
he would soonest be able to attract attention
But already the outbreak had been noticed,
owing, as was afterwards ascertained, to a fit
of sleeplessness which had prevented Mrs. Fyfe
from taking her night's rest, so that she was
fortunately able to discover the smell of burning
before the flames had made great Away. She
had at once given the alarm, and the gardeners
and stablemen had hurried into the courtyard,
and were there laying on the hose-pipes that
were always kept in readiness. Mr. Farquhar
had been hurriedly awakened, and he seemed
to sleep with strange pertinacity, despite the
continuous knocking at his door, and he had
now joined the men in the yard in their endeavours
to prevent the fire spreading.

As Duncan approached he heard Mr. Farquhar

calling out to the men not to mind the
burning wing of the house, but rather to prevent
it spreading to the other quarters.

6 Oh, it's only in the billiard-room as yet, sir,
and I think we'll manage to get out all the
books and pictures from the library before the
flames get at them. Come along, men, and let's
do what we can.'

Stop a bit,' cried Mr. Farquhar ; ' the house
is of more importance than the books ;' then,
seeing that his hearers instinctively knew this
was not the case, and were about to do their
best to save what they could, he turned round
angrily, and at the same moment caught sight
of a figure amongst the laurels to the left of
the courtyard. A fresh gleam of fire flashed in
this direction at the same moment, and by it he
recognised the features of Edward Duncan.

A flash of triumphant malice lit up his eyes ashe
realised how fate had played into his hands.

Maxwell, Macfarlane, look here ! Do you
see that fellow lurking about there ! Don't let
him escape. It is he who set fire to Firnie
Knowe.'

And before Duncan could make any resistance,
or, indeed, realise what had occurred, he
found himself grasped by four strong hands and
dragged into the courtyard.

4 You infernal villain,' said Mr. Farquhar, L we
have caught you red-handed in the act, and
you'll pay for this night's work. Did you want
to burn every soul within this house, that you
chose the dead of night for your cowardly
devilry f

Duncan was too confused and amazed to make
any reply, and only stared blankly at his accuser.

Fasten him up with these ropes, men, and
then throw him into the coal-cellar there. He
can spend the rest of the night with the rats, and
on thinking over the fate that is in store for him.'

1 It's a lie,' shouted out the young man, suddenly
; ' it's a lie, I tell you. This man has set
the house on lire himself. I can prove it.'

f Come, that old game won't do. All here
know that you were lurking about these grounds
this evening, and that at last you gained admittance,
only, however, to be shortly turned out
again. That was in the early part of the evening,

and how can yon explain your being
still in the grounds of Firnie Knowe at this hour
past midnight ? No, no, my good fellow, you'll
have to answer for what you've done. And now,
men, chuck him into the coal-house and attend
to the fire.'

The next moment Edward Duncan found himself
in total darkness, and half-suffocated by the
thick dust that covered him where he lay among
the coals.

Greatly to the delight of all concerned — of all
save one — the fire was got under with marvellous
success, and by two o'clock there was not even
any smouldering left. Comparatively little
damage had been done, and that not to the
really valuable contents of the rooms. Once
more quietness settled down upon the house,
and even Mrs. Fyfe managed to fall asleep.
But in his room Mr. Farquhar paced to and fro,
muttering angrily every now and again,

'Curse that old pole-cat of a housekeeper!
Why on this night, of all nights, should she be
awake? If it had not been for her sniffing
about like some old rat, the whole northern

wing would have been in flames by this time.
Now I have had all the trouble and all the risk
for nothing, and won't be able to realise anything
after all from the insurance companies. If I had
only known,* he added, savagely, 'that she
would be likely to come between me and my
purpose, I should have taken care to have set
fire to the part where her bed-room was first,
and, if possible, have burned the old hag in her
bed. And now what am I to do with this precious
youngster? I hope he enjoys his night's rest
among these coals. I wish that she-devil of his
could see him now. Let me see ; it won't do,
of course, for me to have him really handed over
to justice.'

For a good hour Mr. Farquhar continued walking
about his room, pondering over this and
other matters of difficulty. At last he lifted a
time-table from a book-shelf, and looked to see at
what hour the early morning express stopped at
Firnie.

1 Five o'clock,' he muttered, * and it's now
about four. H'm ; I'll be just in good time todo
it.'

VOL. III. P

Blowing out the light in his room, he stole
gently downstairs and into the smoke-blackened
breakfast-room. Noiselessly he removed the
bolts of the shutters, and, unfastening the French
window, stepped out on to the soaked sward by
the side of the house.

A few moments later he was in the courtyard,
and had opened the door of the coal-cellar.
Stooping, he uncut the rope that tied
Duncan's feet and hands, asking, as he did so,
the recumbent man to follow him. Stiff and
half-dazed with rage and indignation, Duncan
did as he was told. Even as he followed his
guide in a transport of fierce emotion, he could
not help admiring the cool assurance or indifference
which Mr. Farquhar manifested towards
him, evidently quite heedless as to whether the
young man should take any opportunity of revenge
or not. When they reached the upper
end of the south avenue, Mr. Farquhar abruptly
faced round.

Now look here, my young friend, I'm acting
thus not out of any compassion to you, but
wholly on account of my ward, Miss Lora Armytage.

Between ourselves, seeing there are no
witnesses at hand, 1 presume you won't deny that
it was indeed you who set fire to Firnie Knowe?'

I do emphatically deny it, Edwin Farquhar,
and, what is more, I accuse you of the act yourself.'


On what grounds, pray V

Because 1 was watching you for some time
before I gained admission to the house. The
noise that distracted you in the library was made
by the falling of a rake from the lilac bush in
which I was hidden, and not by the unfortunate
fox which you so skilfully shot.'

A sudden gleam came into his hearer's eyes,
and his hands made a furtive movement towards
his waist, but almost instantaneously he checked
his impulse, whatever it was, and looked steadily
at the young man before him.

Well V he asked, inquiringly.

And while hidden in the lilac bush I distinctly
saw you put a variety of things in different
parts of the room — things I now knoAv to
have been so placed to facilitate the burning of
the room

P 2

Mr. Farquhar laughed outright.

4 Why, you fool, I was engaged in unpacking
a number of books and magazines which I had
brought down from Edinburgh, with a number of
miscellaneous ornaments which I had purchased
to make the very bare smoking-room here
a little more attractive. It was while putting
these in different parts of the room that I heard
a noise out-side, and immediately concluded
that it was some poacher or illegal intruder,
and so determined to give him a fright.'

Mr. Farquhar's manner was so entirely
natural that Duncan felt quite taken aback.
Perhaps, after all, he had been mistaken, and
was doing a gross injustice to Lora's guardian.
If so, what more natural than that the latter
should suppose that he, Edward Duncan, was
indeed the perpetrator of the shameful act.

Accordingly, when Mr. Farquhar resumed
speaking, Duncan did not attempt the indignantly
scornful answer which he had just been
on the point of uttering.

In addition, I may say that a prosecution of
you would entail at present very considerable
inconvenience to me. so altogether 1 am inclined

to let you go scot-free, in the meantime at
any rate. But I warn you that if you cross my
path again I'll have you up for attempted arson,
and you may rest assured that, with such convincing
proofs against you, you will find it uncommonly
difficult to prove your innocence — if,
indeed, you are innocent, which, personally, I
decline to believe. You're in good time to
catch the five o'clock train from Firnie. So I
would advise you to be off.' And so saying Mr.
Farquhar turned and strode back towards the
house.

That morning, a few hours later, Mr. Farquhar
came down into the yard, and explained to the
gardeners that he had permitted their prisoner
to escape.

As a matter of fact,' he added, * I came to
the conclusion, after carefully questioning him,
that he was innocent of having caused the fire,
whatever other intentions he may have had.
Anyway, I gave him the benefit of the doubt.
And it is quite possible that the fire arose from
some natural cause. I wish nothing more said
about it, so please understand that the subject
is not to be mentioned to anybody whomsoever

CHAPTER IV.

GATHERING CLOUDS.

A FEW days subsequent to the events narrated
in the last chapter, Mrs. Fyfe was walking
across the fields to the south-west of Firnie
Knowe, when she heard the clatter of a horse's
hoofs along the main road. Looking round, she
espied Mr. Farquhar, who at once reined in
and called out to her,

A beautiful day, Mrs. Fyfe ; I suppose you
are out taking a stroll, but please don't be long
going back, as I shall be wanting a cup of tea
before long

The housekeeper looked put out.

1 Mary is in the house, sir, and can do all that
is required in that way. I thought I would just

step over to Firnie to see some of the tradespeople
there about their accounts.'

Mr. Farquhar hesitated a moment, but seemed
satisfied with her answer, for he told her not to
shorten her walk by any means, under these
circumstances.

No sooner had he disappeared towards Firnie
Knowe than Mrs. Fyfe changed her direction
and walked as rapidly as she could towards the
belt of woodland to the right, which skirted the
estate known as the Cedars, whereat its owner
Dr. Steele was then residing.

The old doctor, as he was invariably spoken of
in the neighbourhood, had been at his country
house for some three or four days past, but,
hitherto, Mrs. Fyfe had not been able to get
across to the Cedars.

When the servant told him that the housekeeper
from Firnie Knowe was desirous of
seeing him, he looked surprised, but at once
asked her to be shown into his room.

'How do you do, Mrs. Fyfe? Nothing
wrong at the Knowe, I hope ? I suppose Mr.
Farquhar is staying there at present?'

Yes, sir, he is. I want to speak to you about
something, if you please, Dr. Steele — for I know
that you are the oldest friend of the family. At
the same time, I may be mistaken — if so, my
excuse must be that I was rendered so on account
of my interest in dear Miss Lora.'

My dear Mrs. Fyfe, if you have been suspicious
of anything — and I may tell you we are
all suspicious of something — I wonder you did
not write either to Miss Armitage or myself, or
else come over here earlier.'

I did write some time ago, sir, but though my
note to Miss Lora contained a statement that
must have been startling, if not already known
to her, and though 1 took the precaution of sending
a boy with the note in case Mr. Farquhar
should see it in the letter-bag and take it out, I
have never heard a word in answer. I am quite
sure, sir, that Miss Lora is not the kind of person
to behave thus.'

You are quite right, Mrs. Fyfe. She could
not have received your note, or else her answer
has been intercepted.'

Hereupon Mrs. Fyfe narrated everything that

had occurred down to the incident of the
fire, concluding with the important item of
her recognition of Mr. Farquhar as some one she
had known many years before under a different
name. Of the fire incident she evidently thought
little.

What an extraordinary fatality,' exclaimed
the old man, in a low voice, after he had pondered
for some time over the strange news just
communicated to him. ' The ways of Providence
are indeed strange. After all these years,
is evil still triumphant over good % The thing
is a mystery.'

6 Mrs. Fyfe,' he added, ' you have done Miss
Armitage a great service. There are urgent
reasons why some arrest of Mr. Farquhar's
powers as a guardian should be made at once,
and this fact which you have just communicated
to me is, at any rate, amply sufficient for this
purpose, if, indeed, as I hope, it may not suffice
to bring about the effacement of Mr. Farquhar
altogether. The sooner the better, for that man
will work her some cruel wrong, if, indeed, he
has not already clone so. We ought, however,

to be absolutely sure what we are doing. So
tell me, please, Mrs. Fyfe, by whom was it you
sent the letter you addressed to Miss Armitage V

'I waited till after the latter-bag had been
locked and sent away, and gave the note to
little Jamie Simpson, who had come to the house
from the village on a message, and told him to
give it to the station-master, who would attend to
its being sent off all right. I've never seen Jamie
since, but I think of going over to Firnie from
here and questioning the lad.'

8 Then you won't need to go over to Firnie
to make inquiries. Last week , my coachman
here engaged him as a stable-boy, Lawrence
having left for a better place. Just touch
that bell beside you, please, and we will have
him in.'

The lad was shortly afterwards ushered into
the room, looking very sheepish and a little
frightened.

Now, Jamie Simpson, I want to ask you
some questions. But you needn't look so frightened.
There is no fear of anything if you will
only speak the truth ; but if I find you don't, why,

I'll send you back to Firnie at once, and you
know what a flogging you will get from your
uncle.'

'Please, sir, it wasna me wha killed it— an'
besides, we thocht it war a doo.'

What are you talking about, my boy V asked
the puzzled doctor. ' Don't blubber there, but
tell me what you mean

Please, sir, Kenneth M'llwraith an' me went
over to Firnie Knowe yestreen to see if we
could get some black's eggs, and Tarn Stewart
had teller us o' a mavis's nest at the corner o' the
wud; but when we gazed toon by the burn
hint the Firnie Knowe gardens I thocht I saw
a bushy doo — a pigeon, ye ken added the boy,
seeing a puzzled look in the old man's face, ' an'
I got ready my catapult to hare a shot at it. But
Kenneth was afore me, an' wi' a bonnie pebble
banged it fair i' the head, an' it died a squawk
like I cinna ken what. When we lookit for it
among the brackens we saw that Kenneth had
killed ane o' Mrs. Fyfe's braw grey hens.'

• What !' interrupted the person referred to,
she having heard of the incident for the first

time ; ' ye killed one o' my grey hens, did ye ?
Ma certe, my lad, but ye'll pay for this yet.'

6 Oh, I think, Mrs. Fyfe, we'll let Jamie off
this time if he tells us the truth about the letter,'
interceded Dr. Steele. * Now, Jamie, attend to
what I am saying, and see you tell me the truth.
Do you remember Mrs. Fyfe giving you a letter
to post some time ago ; it was one day when
you were over to Firnie Knowe on a message V

A guilty look came into the lad's face.

1 Ay, sir, I mind it week'

Did you go with it to the station, as she told

you?'

I gazed to it as fast as I could, sir.'

I am asking you if you went to the station
with the letter, as you were told V

Please, sir, he took it frae me, an' teller me
to be quiet about it, an' gazed me a bit silver to
myself.'

'WVdidf

1 The laird at Firnie Knowe, sir.'

< Mr. Farquhar V

Ay, sir.'

Well, that will do, Jamie. I'm glad to see

you have spoken the truth ; but, the next time
you are given a letter to post, 1 advise you to
see that you do it yourself. Do you understand?
Now go, and don't let me hear anymore
complaints about you.'

What did you and that other willy-waukie
do wi' the pair birdie V asked Mrs. Fyfe, suddenly,
ere the lad had slunk from the room.

8 Please, mem, we buried it.'

Buried it ? ye rapscallions ! Where did ye
bury it V

Fist beside the old birk at the side o' the
burn whaup there's a tree owe it. We pit a
slate owe its head, an' I prayed foret, the way I
heard Mr. Maclean, the minister, pray for
auld Granny Nicholls, when she war earth's the
other day.' Then, seeing Dr. Steel smile, and
even the stern features of Mrs. Fyfe relax a little,
Jamie slyly went on. * An' then Kenneth wrote
wi' his slate-pencil words like you see on the
tombie-stanes in the kirkland.'

What did he write, Jamie f asked the old
doctor, much amused.

I cinna ken noo.'

Hoots, ye ken well eneuch,' exclaimed Mrs.
Fyfe, indignantly, and relapsing into her broadest
accent. ' It's something gee impudent, if I'm no
far wrong.'

We'd be waxy, if I teller ye.'

Something touched the old woman's sense of
humour, and she laughed slightly, as she told
him she would let him off this time, if he told
them what the epitaph had been.

Here lies a hen, a' feathers an' legs ;
Auld Fyfe will swallow nae mair o' its eggs, 1

repeated the lad, with a sly twinkle in his eyes.

8 Wa' wi' ye, ye brat, afore I skelp your lugs,'
cried the housekeeper, trying to look angry.

As the boy left the room, a servant entered
bearing a note for Dr. Steele marked immediate.

It was from Sir John Ramsay, and requested
him to come to town at once, as he had an
important communication to make in connection
with Lora's guardian, and wished his friend's
advice.

I must go into Edinburgh this afternoon,
Mrs. Fyfe, and about the very person we have

been discussing. So your visit to me has been
most opportune.'

Mrs. Fyfe said good-bye, and managed to get
back to Firnie Knowe without meeting Mr.
Farquhar, and, though she was questioned by
him later on, she managed to avoid making him
suspicious.

In due time Dr. Steel reached Edinburgh, and,
when he arrived at Grant Square, found Sir
John awaiting him in the studio.

I am very glad you have come, doctor, for I
want your advice. Something has turned up
that will enable us to checkmate Mr. Farquhar,
but I want your advice as to how to catch our
eel. He is so slippery that, if we act too precipitately,
he will probably score another point
in the daring game I am convinced he is playing.'

1 I, too, have brought you strange news, and
I can scarcely doubt that between us we will
weave a net which will snare this hawk, wary
though he be. But tell me what it is that has
occurred.'

Well, it seems that Edward Duncan was so
enraged at what he heard concerning some

story that Mr. Farquhar had trumped np concerning
him, and which that gentleman had
repeated to Lora, and also about that amiable
individual's behaviour here one night, when we
were all out save the dear girl herself, that he
went down to Firnie Knowe in order to have
an interview with Mr. Farquhar.' And Sir John
thereupon related Mr. Duncan's exciting adventures
at Firnie as the reader already knows
them. ' Well, to come to my information,' continued
Sir John, ' it so happens that an old
college friend of Edward is the junior partner in
the firm of writers employed by Mr. Farquhar.
This gentleman, a Mr. Gemmell, met Duncan
the day after the letters return from Firnie
Knowe, and after listening to Duncan's outspoken
statements concerning his opinion of Mr.
Farquhar, requested him to accompany him into
a quiet restaurant close at hand. There Mr.
Gemmell confided to Edward a most important
secret. " I don't say what course I would have
pursued under ordinary circumstances," he said,
but, as an old friend of yours, and your prospective
best man at the wedding, which I hope is

not to be now long deferred, I feel it is my
bounden duty to help you in your crusade
against Mr. Farquhar, though he is a client of
ours. However, I'll pacify my partners, if they
cut up rough — as, however, I don't expect they
will — by saying that we will have you instead.
Well, I was reading over that will of Hew Armytage
lately. Without any definite intention —
perhaps to get the light to bear on what looked
like an erasure, but which was only a pen-scratch
— I caught sight of the water-mark of
the paper. In a moment something of suspicious
significance flashed through my brain.
The paper was very new-looking, once I
thought of it. Well, this water-mark, as it is
called, was one characterising the paper of a
recent manufacturer ; it showed a lion rampant
in a wavy shield, and around the latter the
words ' Eglinton & Co.' I know Mr. Eglinton
slightly, and had no difficulty in seeing him
when I called at the works, as I had lost no
time in doing. He told me (1) that there was
no one else of his name in the trade, and that
there was no similar water-mark in use save in
VOL. Ill, Q

his own manufactory ; (2) that the Eglinton
works had only been started within the last
eight months; and (3) that the document I
showed him belonged to a 'lot' that had been
given out some six months ago, and no more
of which had been made since. Finally, I
asked him if it were possible that the document
before him could by any possibility have been
signed in Australia in March of last year. He
looked at the water-mark and the paper again
before speaking, and then declared it to be
impossible. So now," went on Mr. Gemmell,
"you have a trump card to play in the game you
have begun with Mr. Farquhar." As soon as
Edward learned this important news he came
up here and talked it over with Lora and myself.
We were undecided as to what step next to take,
so thought we would take you into council.'

'In a word, then, Sir John, it is certain that
this precious document, giving Mr. Farquhar so
many powers, could not have been written in
Australia until some months after Hew Armitage's
death, if then ; that it must have been written
here ; and that in consequence the whole thing
is a fraud.'

< Exactly.'

Then I think we have settled Mr. Edwin
Farquhar at last, or that we are on the highroad
to do so. What do yon think of the
following news, with the new and troublesome
complication it entails?' and Dr. Steele informed
his companion as to what he had heard from
Mrs. Fyfe.

Both now realised that, for Lora's sake, they
must proceed with extreme caution. After
dinner Sir John asked her and Edward Duncan
to join Dr. Steele and himself in the studio in
order to discuss the matter fully. Ultimately
Lora, under the altered circumstances involved
in Dr. Steele's communication, expressed her
wish that Mr. Farquhar should not be arrested
save on his absolute denial of the charges to be
brought against him, and on his refusal to give
up his trusteeship, and that he should be allowed
to leave the country if he would undertake
never to return.

'A ridiculous arrangement,' said Dr. Steele,
irritably, 'and of what possible value is the
promise of such a man as Farquhar ? But at

Q2

least you are prepared to let the law take its
course if he should show fight V

Certainly. For the reason you know, I
should deeply regret to see Mr. Farquhar sentenced
to penal servitude ; but it would be
culpable folly to let this sentiment be carried
too far.'

CHAPTER V.

A STRANGE MEETING.

Mr. Hannay had scarcely finished his emphatic
statement when Mr. Strange ways — or, as he
must now be called, Hew Armitage — swayed
heavily as if he had lost his balance, and fell
forward. The great excitement under which
he had been labouring ever since the death of
Polgarth, and his knowledge of his own identity,
accentuated by the fatigue of his rapid journey
north, had proved too great a strain for him to
endure. With great concern the old lawyer
and his son laid him on a stiff, horsehair sofa,
and at once sent for a doctor. It was with
much relief they heard the latter's verdict —
that there was nothing seriously wrong, and

that the patient had a much stronger constitution
than his appearance would lead one to
imagine. He recommended, however, that as
soon as the gentleman recovered he should be
driven home and put to bed for a few hours,
after which he would probably be all right.
Leaving a prescription for an opiate, the doctor
left, and his carriage had not driven away
before Hew Armitage regained consciousness.
He felt very weak, however, and with a strange
passivity asked no further questions, but
allowed himself, accompanied by Trendall, to
be driven to the hotel at which he had previously
engaged rooms. Before he left the office,
he made an appointment with Mr. Hannay
to meet him at his club at eight o'clock the
same evening, promising to send word for the
latter to come to him if he should feel too
unwell.

At the ' Midlothian ' Hew Armitage found Mr.
Hannay awaiting him. Trendall said he would
wait outside and enjoy a smoke and a walk
along lamplight Princes Street at the same time,
but that he would not stroll any distance

away, so as to be within reach the moment
he was wanted.

Mr. Armitage, looking an old and worn man,
gave his companion an outline of his story, and
concluded by asking if his listener thought
there would be any difficulty in the matter of
his assumption of his rights, considering the
long period that had elapsed since his supposed
death, and taking into account the strangeness
of his story and the great change in his
appearance.

Not the least, my dear friend, not the least.
Even if I for one did not recognise you — and 1
am sure Dr. Steele also will recog '

Ah, my dear old friend is still alive then ?
Thank God for that.'

Oh, yes, he is still alive, and, moreover,
remarkably hale. He also, as I was about to
say, is sure to recognise you, Then, of course,
the fact of your having been washed ashore
with that belt, and Steele's letter to you in it,
is sufficient evidence in itself, or would be to
most men. And now I must tell you all I
know, though I can only give you a broad

outline. If Dr. Steele were only in town, I
would take you to him at once. By-the-by, he
may be. I'll just send up a messenger to Grant
Square to find out, and, if the doctor should
by good chance be in town, we will go to him
without delay.'

Mr. Hannay could tell his eager listener little
or nothing about Lora till the discovery of her
position as the latter's daughter ; but yet every
crumb of information was welcome to the
starved love of the man who had years ago
loved so well, and who had undergone such
extremity of suffering.

While Mr. Hannay was supplementing his
information with all he knew concerning the
Ramsay, Mr. Maxwell Armitage, and others,
the messenger returned with the announcement
that Dr. Steele was at home, and would be glad
to see Mr. Douglas Hannay and the friend
referred to in the message sent by the latter.

Garth Trendall was found waiting at the door,
and the three got into a cab and were driven to
the house of Dr. Charles Steele, with whom the
old man always lived when he was in town.

They were shown into a small room, where a
fire was burning brightly, and where only two
candles gave a vague illumination. The two
gentlemen and Trendall were barely seated ere
the door opened and the tall, bent figure of Dr.
Steele entered.

How do you do, Mr. Hannay ! it's some time
since I've had the pleasure of seeing you.
Curiously enough, I was going to look you up
tomorrow about an extraordinary business in
connection with a matter I once spoke to you
about before

The Armitage matter V asked Mr. Hannay,
with a peculiar smile.

f Yes. But, pray, introduce me to your
friends.'

6 My friend here is known by a somewhat
uncommon name — Mr. Strange ways.'

Glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Strange-ways
; pray be seated.'

< And this is Mr. Garth Trendall, of St. Ephraim
Cornwall.'

Dr. Steele suitably replied, but beginning to
look surprised, wondering, as he did, what could

be the drift of this visit from the lawyer and
these two strangers.

1 have come,' said the former, * to throw a
little light on the strange disappearance of your
old friend, Mr. Armitage, and to bring to your
notice — or, rather, my friend here will do so —
certain facts that will have an important bearing
on Mr. Farquhar's claims.'

Indeed,' cried the old doctor, eagerly, thinking
how rapidly now the coils were encircling
the man he had mistrusted and disliked from
the first ; ' then I can assure you that Mr.
Strangeways' information will be most serviceable,
and it could never be more so than at
the present moment.'

If the room had not been so insufficiently
illuminated, and if he had not left his eye-glasses
in the room from which he had just come, Dr.
steele might have noticed two large tears roll
down the face of Mr. Hannay's white-haired
friend. To the latter, the voice of his old friend
was like a strain of sweet and once familiar
music, heard after many years of suffering and
sorrow, and in a strange place and amidst

strange faces and alien interests. It was only
with a great effort that he could steady his
voice sufficiently not to betray the tremor that
vibrated within it, like an aerial current in the
heart of a great leafy beech-tree on a windless
day.

I am the schoolmaster, or rather have been
for close upon twenty years past, at the little
fishing village of St. Aphra, on the Cornish seaboard,
a few miles from the old port of Ortho.
My companion here is the leading man in the
place, and I might say the richest, if any idea
of riches could be associated with St. Aphra.

Many years ago a terrible storm wrought
incalculable damage along the southern coast
of England, and naturally Cornwall suffered
most. Conger Cove, as the small bay outside
St. Aphra is called, witnessed only one wreck
that night, but it was one so absolute that
literally no trace of the vessel was afterwards
found. A few spars and tangled ropes, serrated
by the fang-like reefs known as the Conger's
Teeth, were washed ashore, but nothing that
could give the fishermen any clue as to the

name or nationality of the unfortunate vessel.
But by the strenuous efforts of some of the
fishermen, and mainly through the heroism of
Mr. Trendall here, one man was rescued from
the surge that had whirled him, bruised, but
not severely, into their reach. Not another soul
was saved out of all on board the — the — that
ship.'

4 What was its name V interrupted Dr. Steele,
with sudden eagerness.

Mr. Strange ways, however, took no notice of
the question, but resumed his narrative in the
same love tone, his deeply-lined face being
almost invisible in the heavy shadow which
overlay it.

I will not detain you with particulars of all
that happened thereafter, but will content myself
with a broad outline.'

Hereafter, the old man narrated in clear yet
faltering accents the events of his life at St.
Aphra. Coming to the part played by Polgarth,
he said —

On his deathbed this man Polgarth made a
strange confession. On the night of the wreck

he had seen a belt fall from the waist of the
castaway, or, perhaps, from the clutch of Randall
; this he had secured and secreted. In the
solitude of his ruined cottage, ruined by the
wind on that terrible night, he opened the two
pouches of the belt, and found in one of them
a thick roll of notes, and in the other — a letter.
This letter would have afforded the schoolmaster
the clue to his past, but for all these
long years the man Polgarth had basely kept
the letter a secret, not even writing (as he
might easily have done without being detected),
to the person who had written the letter, with
the information that the addressed had been
wrecked and was now at St. Aphra, but with
total loss of memory owing to some shock.
Before the schoolmaster left the room, the man
Jasper Polgarth was dead, and the all-important
letter was in its real owner's hands. But already
the dying man had called him by his true name,
and almost in a moment there was a dreadful
lightening of the deep darkness that had for so
long shrouded his bygone years. It was not till
he was out upon the lonely cliffs that the schoolmaster

opened that fateful letter, and then once
more he lived anew through an old and bitter
agony.'

A great sob broke the stillness that followed
the sudden cessation of Mr. Strangeways' voice.
It came from the schoolmaster himself.

Dr. Steele trembled with excessive agitation.
Twice he lifted up his hand as if to assist him in
saying something, but each time it only shook
aimlessly, like an aspen leaf quivering in a
furtive breath of air,

To whom was the letter addressed V at last
he said, in a thick husky voice.

It's outer cover was inscribed with the name
of the schoolmaster — Mr. Strangeways.'

< To you?'

8 Yes. Can you imagine what the name on
the inner envelope was, John Steele 1 '

For all answer the old man rose, tears still
further blinding his eyes, and, placing his
hands on the speaker's shoulders, gazed into
his face.

It cannot be, it cannot be,' at last he cried ;
it cannot be that the dead thus came to life.

My friend, my friend, whom I loved and long so
deeply mourned, it is not yon who have now
come back, old and white-haired like myself ?
Speak, Hew Armitage, and tell me that I do
not indeed see once more the friend whom I
loved in bygone years !'

I am even that Hew Armitage upon whom
the hand of God lay so heavily.'

f I felt it, I felt it, when you were midway
with your story, but I fought against it, not
believing the thing possible. Your face has
changed, and your manner is not that of Hew
Armitage whom I knew, but the voice is almost
the same as of yore, though it is weary where
that was strong and hopeful

Tears fell slowly from the eyes of both menas
they stood hand in hand by the fire, neither
of them able or desirous of speaking further
words just then.

Mr. Hannay made a sign to Trendall, and
then, whispering to Dr. Steele that they would
be back in a quarter-of-an-kour or so, the old
lawyer and the Cornish fisherman went out of
the room.

When they returned they found the two
friends of old days sitting hand in hand, the
younger man looking more like a brother of the
aged doctor than a comparatively youthful
friend.

4 1 know all, Hannay,' said Hew Armitage —
all that you were unable to tell me. I have
much yet to learn, but in the meantime I thank
God I have come into my old life in good time
to protect my daughter from wrong. As for
that villain whom you know as Mr. Farquhar,
the day of his evil prosperity is set at last.'

CHAPTER VI.

A MYSTERIOUS ROBBERY.

It was late before Hew Armitage and Garth
Trendall took their leave of Dr. Steele. Mr.
Hannay had left after a long consultation with
the "united friends as to which would be the best
steps to bring Mr. Farquhar into the net.

It had been arranged that next day Dr. Steele
should break the news to Lora, and that her
father should be brought to her as soon thereafter
as practicable.

Mr. Armitage heard from his friend where the
Ramsay resided, and, when the hall door had
closed behind him and his companion, he could
not resist the temptation to walk round to the
opposite side and to stand a few minutes in
front of the house itself. A church clock had

VOL. III. R

struck the half-hour after midnight just as they
were leaving Dr. Steele's house, and Trendall
put Mr. Armitage in mind that the hotel might
be closed if they returned too late.

No, no,' the latter had answered ; 'no fear
of that; and I feel sure that I mast go and look
at the house. You do not know what it is, my
friend, to starve for love.'

The light of a street lamp irradiated dimly the
doorway of the Ramsay' house. For what seemed
to Trendall a long time they stood there. Hew
Armitage was living over a portion of the long-buried
past, and was deep in reverie. At times
he looked at the upper windows of the house,
wondering if in one of these front rooms slept
Lora, and at these moments a yearning look
came into his eyes, a perfect, though passive,
agony of longing. Bitter, indeed, had been his
portion. A happy youth, indeed, and the promise
of a happier manhood; then treachery,
sorrow, tragedy, grief unutterable, and a long,
strange silence that was not rest.

Two or three times he had turned away, and
had reached the end of that side of the garden

pavement, but after each occasion he returned,
as if drawn back to the same spot by some
irresistible magnetic influence.

It was during the return from one of these
ineffectual departures that Hew Armitage saw
the hall-door of the Ramsay' house slowly open,
and two figures come forth. He was surprised,
for there had been no lights observable, and he
had naturally concluded that all the inmates
were asleep.

The two men closed the door gently, probably
so as not to disturb those who were in their beds,
and then swiftly crossed the road, and were at
once lost in the deep shadow.

Friends of some of the young Ramsay, most
likely,' thought Hew Armitage, s let out quietly
thus so as not to disturb the others.'

Perhaps they have seen Lora,' was his next
thought, and he looked jealously into the darkness
as if he would fain have discerned and
spoken to one of these fortunate young men.

The next moment he heard rapid footsteps,
and almost simultaneously two shadowy figures
loomed close upon him. Trendall was in the

e2

deeper shadow, but he at the moment was close
to a lamp, whose wan, whitish-yellow light
shone full on his face.

The two new-comers halted as soon as they
descried the figure by the lamp-post, but a
second glance seemed to reassure them. They
were almost touching Mr. Armitage when one
of them sprang back with an oath, grew so
deadly pale that in the gaslight his face seemed
as ghastly as that of a corpse, and staggered
back as though dazed with sudden horror.

Can the dead indeed return?' came hoarsely
from his quivering lips. Then, as if the sound
of his own words reassured him in some measure,
he turned and fled with utmost speed, leaving
his companion in a half-frightened and wholly-puzzled
condition.

The latter looked disdainfully at the white-haired
man beside the lamp-post, muttering,
What the devil does my friend Charlie mean 1
is he out of his mind to hook it from this old
beggar here V

Though the man who had fled could distinctly
see the face of Hew Armitage, the latter had

not been able to perceive clearly that of the
former. He at once, however, realised that
there was something suspicious about these two
men, and the sudden start and flight of one of
them. If he had heard the latter 's exclamation, it
might have afforded him matter for speculation.

So, as soon as the remaining midnight visitor
of the Ramsay had walked swiftly on, Armytage
turned to Trendall, and told him in a low
voice to follow the man that had just passed him.

Be cautious,' he added, ' not to lose sight of
him, and at the same time not to let him see
that he is followed. Note well the address of
the house where he enters, and then return at
once to our hotel, and I will leave word with
the porter accordingly.'

Despite the many things that had occurred
to distract his attention from his work, Sir John
Ramsay found it imperative on the morning
following the meeting of Dr. Steele and Hew
Armitage to put the finishing touches to a large
painting that had that week to be sent in to the
Royal Scottish Academy.

Immediately after breakfast, lie went into his
studio and commenced his work. The picture
represented Marie Antoinette. With a sigh of
impatience, he rose and went to the safe where,
among other valuables, were deposited Lora's
jewellery. He gave a start as he saw that the
key was in the lock.

How foolish of me to leave that key therewith
so many valuable things inside. I remember
now ! I put away some of these things
just before dinner, and I have not been in the
studio since.'

Pulling back the heavy iron door, he opened
the drawer in which Lora's things were kept,
and stared in dumb astonishment as he beheld
nothing inside. The next moment the thought
struck him that of course Lora had herself taken
them out. And yet, what could be the meaning
of this? although he had not secured the safe
the night before, he remembered now that he
had locked the studio door, and put the key in
his pocket ; and that, moreover, when he had
come hither a few minutes ago, he had found
the door unlocked. It was only now that he
remembered what had occurred the night

previous, and putting his hand in his pocket, he
found the key still there. This incident made
him feel very uncomfortable, for he knew that
there was no duplicate key of this room.
Lighting a candle, he stooped at the door and
examined the lock ; beyond all doubt the bolt
had been forced back and the lock broken. He
went at once to the morning-room, where he
found his wife and daughter and Lora still
chatting together ; but, in reply to his anxious
questioning, he learned that all three were absolutely
ignorant of the loss or misappropriation
of the jewels. After much consultation with
each other, it was decided to see the servants
separately.

Sir John explained candidly what had happened,
adding that, of course, their good sense
would convince them that everyone in the house
must be willing to allow every investigation to
be made by the detective for whom he was
about to send.

It is not that I have suspicions of any one of
you, but because it is absolutely necessary that
this matter must be cleared up

In the course of the forenoon a detective

officer solved the first part of the mystery. He
seemed to find out by instinct various subtle
traces which had escaped the eyes of those in
the house. After he had finished his investigations,
and traced the burglars in all their operations,
he turned to Sir John and said,

'Before I go to make inquiries of a different
kind, can you, Sir John, give me the faintest clue,
or have you the vaguest suspicion of anyone V

1 No, I cannot at all conceive who it could be.
My own impression is that it is a case of ordinary
burglary.'

1 Nonsense, Sir John, if you will excuse my
saying so. Would ordinary burglars pass over
the silver plate that was lying in the pantry and in
the dining-room ? or, indeed, would they content
themselves with taking nothing else than Miss
Armitage's jewellery ? And again, how do you
account for their having come straight to the
safe here without any apparent hesitation V

You are right, I see ; but still I cannot assist
you. It so happens that there have been absolutely
no strangers visiting this house of late,
save Mr. Edward Duncan, Miss Armitage's betrothed,

and Mr. Edwin Farquhar, her guardian.'
'And both these gentlemen, I suppose, are
wholly beyond suspicion ¥ asked the detective,
sharply.

My friend Duncan is wholly so ; as for Mr.
Farquhar, I can only say that, while I have
every reason to mistrust and dislike him, I have
none to imagine him connected with this robbery.'
4 What is Mr. Farquhar' s address V
Sir John gave the detective the information he
wanted, and had just bidden him good-bye, when
Edward Duncan entered the studio with Lora.

f Everything is arranged,' he cried. ' Word
has been sent from Lora to Mr. Farquhar that
she would like to see him here this afternoon.
Mrs. Fyfe will be here in good time ; and Dr.
Steele has arranged about the warrant, and
also about a detective for purposes of arrest.
The doctor, moreover, gave me a hint that there
were more charges than one against Mr. Farquhar,
and that it was impossible he could give
them the slip ; and he added, mysteriously, that
there would be some strange revelations made
before this day came to an end.'

CHAPTER VII.

MR. FARQUHAR HAS A VISITOR, AND RETURNS THE
VISIT.

While the members of the Ramsay household
were perturbed by the mysterious robbery that
had occurred during the foregoing night, Mr.
Edwin Farquhar sat gloomily in his rooms in
Torphichen Street, before a small fire that flickered
with dying feebleness. On the table lay
his breakfast, cold, but all untasted. One or
two letters lay upon the tray, and one he held
in his hand as it hung over his knee.

For a long time he sat thus — a frown settling
more and more fixedly on his handsome but
worn and vicious face. They were not pleasant
thoughts that he experienced, nor pleasant fancies
that he saw imaged in the smouldering fire.

Occasionally lie would give an impatient kick
to a refractory coal in front of him. or look round
with a half-wearied, half-startled, and wholly
irritable expression. At last he raised again
the hand that held the letter, and perused it for
the fourth or fifth time.

Everything is gone wrong, confound it.
This cursed insurance company are undoubtedly
suspicious, and 1 can see there will be nothing
to be gained in that quarter. The money
on that mortgage is not yet paid, and I don't
make out when the fool is to hand the cash
over to me. Let me see : I must have some
six hundred in hand, and to-day I am to get
two hundred from old Swain — that's right.
Then at Duckworth's, in London, I have a clear
thousand. A bird in the hand's worth two in
the bush, and I think the sooner I clear out the
better. I'll try the States this time — that is,
New York. 'Frisco, I expect, remembers me
too affectionately yet to suit my modest and
retiring disposition. Murdoch had better go
across to-night, if he has not gone already,
as I hope he has ; and then he can join me in

London. No, by-the-by, I will join him, and
cross the herring-pond by that Hamburg line.
Once more — a thousand in London, six hundred
in hand (in English " fives "), and two hundred
due to-day, or tomorrow at latest — that's
eighteen hundred ; and at the very least I expect
these stones will bring in say twelve hundred ;
altogether not less than three thousand if I
don't share Schreiner's money with Murdoch.
Curse it all ! I feel quite shaky even now with
that thing I saw last night. It could not have
been he I saw. Strange, though, that it should
have occurred just opposite her house, and on
last night of all nights. What a fool I was to
bolt like that ! What if I were recognised by
anyone ; it would look suspicious my running
away from Grant Square like a madman. I
was completely taken aback, that's the truth of
the matter, and behaved more like a schoolboy
than a man who has gone through all I have.'

At this moment a knock sounded at the door.
Mr. Farquhar started so abruptly that it was
manifest his nerves had not yet come under
his absolute control, and was it instinctively

that he put his hand to the pocket of his grey
morning-coat, and that a faint click followed
the action ?

i Come in,' he called out, at last.

A gentleman wants to see ye, sir,' said his
landlady. i Mr. Macdonald, he says his name is.'

'That's all right; show him up — and, look
here, Mrs. Balfour, don't let anyone else come
in this morning. If anyone calls say that Mr.
Farquhar is not at home.'

The landlady replied accordingly, and then
ushered in Mr. Macdonald.

A man about forty-five, thick-set, and fairly
tall, with a countenance strongly marked by
dissipation, and with an expression of mingled
cunning and brutality, and yet, strangely
enough, not wholly devoid of certain faint
traces of good breeding, was this visitor to Mr.
Farquhar.

1 Good-morning, Macdonald,' was the latter's
exclamation, when the landlady opened the
door for his friend.

No sooner had she disappeared, however, than
his cordiality passed away.

Still here, Murdoch f I thought you would
have got away by this morning's mail for the
south?'

I thought I would rather go by the boat ;
there's one sails from Leith direct to Amsterdam
this afternoon.'

Have you the jewels with you I 1

6 No, I left them in my room, securely locked
in my bag, and before 1 left I also locked the
door of the room itself.'

Well, I will accompany you to Murray
Street, as there are some more arrangements
I want to make concerning our meeting in
London.'

As soon as they got into the street they
jumped into a cab, and by Mr. Farquhar's orders
were driven to Nicholson Square, in the old
part of the town. Here they dismounted and
walked slowly through various by-streets till
they reached Murray Street, in which Murdoch
had a room.

When once they were safely inside, the subject
of Murdoch's visit to Amsterdam was
resumed.

This is how the thing is to go, I understand,'
said the latter. 'As soon as I get to
Amsterdam I will go to Schreiner and see
what business I can negotiate with him —
taking care that I do not pass the load for
less than twelve hundred, which you say is the
lowest amount that the things can possibly be
worth. I will get the money in gold and
English notes, and the latter I will change
twice or thrice at Hamburg. There I will wait
till I hear from you at Schlomka's, saying
whether I am to join you in London, or if you
will come out to Hamburg. Can't you decide
now what you will do I It would save all
chance of misunderstanding, and, moreover, I
must confess, I have no desire to cross the
Channel unnecessarily.'

1 1 can't say for certain, but I'm inclined to
think that I'll join you at Hamburg ; though
when once we've divided the proceeds of the
swag I think it would be wiser for us not both to
go together in the same vessel — for I suppose
you, too, intend to cross to the States.'

I should rather think so. London or New

York for me, I say, and none of your blasted
foreign holes.'

'How fortunate London and New York are to
meet with your appreciation,' said Mr. Farquhar,
with a provoking sneer.

I don't understand what's the matter with
you — you seem bent on irritating me. What
would you say if I were to do that little business
with Schreiner, and then give you the slip
altogether V

1 would never have occasion to say anything,
for I would shoot you like a dog the first time
1 met you; and that that soon or late would
inevitably happen, you know as well as I.'

It seems to me bad policy this snarling at each
other said Murdoch, sullenly.

And now,' replied Mr. Farquhar, taking no
notice of his companion's last remark, • let's see
those jewels ; I want to estimate their value now
that I have leisure to examine them.'

"While the two men were scrutinising and calculating
the value of Lora's stolen gems, a plainly
dressed man, who had strolled negligently
along Murray Street, in close proximity to the

two men who had alighted in a cab in Nicholson
Square, went rapidly to a neighbouring
police office, where he got a warrant for the
arrest of one John Macdonald, alias James
Simpson, alias James Murdoch.

Mr. MacGeorge was delayed a little longer
than he had anticipated in getting his necessary
warrant, but when he did get back to the flat
in Murray Street he found that James Murdoch
was going to give him the slip again, and this
time beyond all chance of capture.

1 Yes, they cannot be worth less than fifteen
hundred at the very least, and see, Murdoch,
that you don't let that infernal shark, Schreiner,
wheedle you into accepting a smaller sum.

Murdoch, who had for some time been vaguely
suspicious of something in Mr. Farquhar's
manner, noticing a strange preoccupation quite
unusual in that personage, now seemed to feel
quite at ease, and laughed and joked with
hilarious freedom.

Well, it's time for me to go,' said Mr. Farquhar,
' so let's have a parting glass together for
luck : I see you have a bottle of sherry there.'

VOL. III. S

By all means,' said his companion, * but you'll
have to put up with tumblers instead of glasses.'

Having poured out some wine, Murdoch went
to a cupboard to get out some biscuits.

With a rapidly stealthy movement Mr. Farquhar's
arm moved across the table, and if
Murdoch had looked round he might have seen
a small, dark bottle in the hollow of his companion's
hand. From this bottle four or five
drops hastily fell, and the next moment it was
lying in Mr. Farquhar's vest pocket again.

The latter gentleman all at once seemed to
lose his taciturnity, and became quite friendly
and even genial.

My dear Murdoch,' he said, ' I'm afraid you've
found me rather sulky this morning, but I have
been so infernally worried of late, and so upset
by last night's encounter with some old fellow
whom I mistook for the ghost of a man I had
once known, that I have really not been myself.
We will have a good time of it in New York.
And now I'll drink good luck to you ;' and Mr.
Farquhar stretched forward his hand to take the
tumbler nearest him.

Hark ! what is that V cried Murdoch, as a
crash was heard at the bottom of the stairs ; then,
as a long, childish wail succeeded, he added,
Oh, only some kid fallen downstairs.'

Mr. Farquhar's motion had been arrested by
the startling sound, and before he had time to
interpose Murdoch handed to him the tumbler
next to himself — that is, the tumbler into which
the drops from that black bottle had fallen — and
the next moment he lifted up the other glass
and drank the contents off at a draught.

Here's luck,' he cried. ' But why don't you
drink yours V

Despite all his self-control, a strange rashness
came into Mr. Farquhar's lips.

I — I never touch sherry — I take nothing but
brandy, worse luck to it all the same.'

Why, my good fellow, of course that's
brandy ; I thought you knew it all the time. Do
you think I am such a fool as to drink such
mawkish stuff as sherry in this solitary hole'?
Come, drink it off, or I'll think you're not in
earnest about wishing me good luck.'

Still Mr. Farquhar hesitated, his being one of

s 2

those natures that have absolute control in all
circumstances that have been foreseen, but that
are apt to be completely taken aback by some
unexpected turn of affairs.

Something in his hesitancy, perhaps in the
strange, furtive look he cast about him — like an
animal suddenly cowed — caused a sudden flash
of suspicion to come into Murdoch's mind.
Moral coward as the latter was, he was no
physical one when once brought to bay. Drawing
a little closer to Mr. Farquhar, he looked at
him steadily, and then spoke once more.

Drink that brandy, my friend, or I'll think
you've been playing me false.'
'Certainly,' said Mr. Farquhar, with that
subtle evil smile of his flitting across his ghastly
pale face.

As he spoke he raised the tumbler to his lips.
As swiftly as it had come, so died away the
suspicion in Murdoch's mind, and he had just
involuntarily given a sigh of relief when the
tumbler full of brandy was shot straight into his
face, burning his eyes as with the agony of liquid
flame. He gave a hoarse cry and staggered

back — smarting with pain, and for the time
wholly blinded.

There was a moment's absolute silence. Then
instinct told the unhappy man, as he blindly
groped towards the door, that his companion
was about to murder him.

A prolonged scream of despair rang through
the house. The next moment Mr. Farquhar
sprang upon the man, helplessly staggering to
and fro — forced him backward against a sofa,
and, holding him down, drove the thick-bladed
knife in his hand up to the hilt in Murdoch's
side. A second and a third time he plunged the
weapon in.

Mr. Farquhar stooped forward and methodically
cleaned the large bowie knife on the
murdered man's coat. Then, swiftly gathering
together the jewels that were lying on the table,
he was just about to leave the room. He started
back at a sudden violent shaking of the door.

4 Open the door,' cried a woman's voice,
hysterically. — ' Open the door,' came imperatively
that of a man, ' or I smash it in.'

Mr. Farquhar glided noiselessly across to

the window on his right. It looked into the
street, and escape by it was impossible. Two
steps brought him to the window at the other
end of the room. Close to this there was the
flat roof of a small adjoining house, beyond
which again was another house covered with
scaffolding. Even at this critical moment Mr.
Farquhar's keen eyes noticed that the scaffolding
was deserted, owing to the men not
having yet resumed work after their midday
meal.

Opening the window, he slipped over the
ledge, leaning thereon with his arms until he had
pulled down the window again. Holding in his
breath and closing his eyes, he dropped the few
feet between him and the roof below, alighting-there
without losing his balance. At this moment
a deep curse broke from him. He had
forgotten the jewels after all. Now, however,
it was too late to repair his folly. Hastily
running along the flat roof, he sprang between
the chimneys at the end of it and gained the
adjoining scaffolding, issuing from the basement
thereof unmolested, if not actually unseen.

He had not left the roof of the house on to

which he had dropped before the door of
Murdoch's room was driven in. Mr. MacGeorge
found that his warrant would be of little use.
Both he and the landlady who accompanied
him knew that another person had been in the
room — had they not heard that horrid scream
ring through the house — a scream that none save
a man in dire extremity would give. A glance,
however, sufficed to show that the room was
empty. The detective went to the windows
and at one of them he saw on the floor beside it
the very jewels which Sir John Ramsay had
described to him, they having fallen from their
case when thrown hurriedly down by Mr.
Farquhar. There was no sign, however, of
Murdoch's accomplice and presumable murderer.

Is the poor fellow quite dead, sir V exclaimed
the horrified landlady.

Just as she spoke, Murdoch opened his eyes,
still blinded by the burning brandy, and muttered,
hoarsely — ' He — Farquhar — Charles Ca —

murdered — jewels ' repeating thereafter some

vague, incoherent sounds.

The detective lifted him forward, to give him
greater ease, but Murdoch was already dead.

CHAPTER VIII.

4 CAN THE DEAD LIVE !'

FROM noon onwards on that day succeeding his
visit to Dr. Steele, Hew Armitage felt in a fever
of excitement. He found himself incessantly
mentally picturing his daughter Lora — now an
exact resemblance to Mona, again with such
modifications as the descriptions Dr. Steele and
Mr. Hannay had suggested. But at last the
tardy time drew near for him to call on Dr.
Steele and to go round with him to Grant
Square.

Meanwhile there were other anxious hearts in
the Ramsay household. All concerned felt that
some crisis was approaching, but none could
guess what might be the outcome thereof.

The first-floor of the house was mainly occupied

by the large drawing-room, but at the side
of this, and between it and the stairs, was a
small ante-room, generally shrouded from view
by heavy velvet curtains. As the hour of
appointment with Mr. Farquhar drew near, Sir
John Ramsay, Lora, and Edward Duncan sat in
the drawing-room itself, and in the ante-room
waited Mrs. Fyfe. The detective, for whose
appearance Dr. Steele had arranged, had not
yet arrived. Lora felt very uneasy, and realised
for perhaps the first time that she really stood
in fear of her pseudo-guardian.

The third quarter after four had struck, and
still there was no sign of the expected visitor.
So keen were the apprehensions each felt in a
more or less degree that they found themselves
conversing in lowest tones, and with those
furtive, startled looks which people are wont to
exchange in presence of some imminent or
recent calamity.

Perhaps, after all,' said Sir John, ' Mr.
Farquhar may not come. He has never answered
your note, Lora.'

'Oh, yes, Sir John, he has done so. Just

about an hour ago I received a note by post,
stating simply, " I will be with you at the hour
named," and as I mentioned between half-past
four and five o'clock he ought to be here any
moment.'

Duncan went to the window and listened
intently.

Suddenly a ragged lad ran past the house
shouting out the main news of his evening
papers : — ' Mysterious Murder in Murray Street !
Mysterious Murder !'

It is strange how some purely irrelevant word
or incident will afford a sudden flood of light to
the general drift of one's mind. Though no
one of the three who waited there expressed his
or her thought to the others, they simultaneously
found their thoughts speculating as to whether
Mr. Farquhar had anything to do with this.
There was absolutely nothing to connect him
with this proclaimed tragedy, and perhaps it
was only their overwrought feelings towards
that personage which led to this strange association
of ideas.

The voice of the news-boy had scarcely died

away ere a sharp ring of the door-bell sounded
through the house. Each looked at the other,
as much as to say, ' That is he

In the midst of the deep silence that ensued,
Mr. Farquhar was ushered into the room. It
had been so arranged that he should sit with his
back to the ante-room ; and without, to all
appearance, taking note of his position, Lora's
guardian seated himself as directed by a wave
of Sir John's hand.

1 I came here, Sir John Ramsay, in consequence
of a note received from my ward, Miss
Lora Armitage, and I should have preferred to
have had my interview with her alone, as I do
not recognise your right to interfere in her
matters at all.'

Mr. Farquhar had bowed to Sir John and his
ward on entry, but had taken no notice whatever
of Edward Duncan. The latter, however,
answered the question just put.

• Sir John Ramsay has a right to be present,
and I think even you will admit that I have a
perfect right also V

6 Ah, let me see. You are the young person

I found lurking about the grounds of Firnie
Knowe, and who made such a crude endeavour
to set the house on fire.'

I will not attempt to refute your insolence,'
remarked Duncan, scornfully ; ' and now pray
let us come to discussion of the matter that has
induced us to ask you hither.'

Once again there was shouted out below,

Mysterious Murder in Murray Street ! — Full
Details — Mysterious Murder !'

Have you seen the evening paper V said Mr.
Farquhar, pleasantly, to Lora. ' I don't know
if you care for reading such things, but, if so,
you will find a most thrilling account of what
the news-boys very justly call a mysterious
murder. I was quite interested in it, I assure
you.'

Lora shuddered instinctively, not at the man's
words, but at something in the tone of his voice
and the cruel mocking look in his eyes. With
some effort she addressed herself to him in the
manner that had been arranged.

'Mr. Farquhar, I have asked you to come
here to listen to something important that I

have to say to you. I have found out certain
things about you which would legally do away
with all your claims to guardianship of myself
and my liberty, but, as I have also learned a
fact concerning your real relationship to me, I
am willing, much against the wish of my friends
here, to give you an opportunity of redeeming
the wrong you have already done.'

You are very kind, Miss Armitage, but I am
afraid I do not follow the drift of your remarks

Miss Armitage,' broke in her lover, ' wishes
to say in other words that you are an infernal
scamp, and that the sooner you clear out the
better.'

This is really delightfully complimentary —
coming from you, Master Duncan.'

Mr. Farquhar,' interrupted Sir J john, ' to
save my friend, Miss Armitage, the pain of
speaking more clearly, I myself will tell you
in a few words our reasons for demanding that
you at once withdraw all claim to your assumed
guardianship, and that you at once take your
departure from this country. We have learned,
first, that Mrs. Fyfe, the housekeeper at Firnie,

has been interfered with in a most unjustifiable
manner. Some weeks ago she wrote to Miss
Armitage a letter of great importance, a letter
which was never delivered, and which we now
know was prevented by you from ever reaching
its destination.'

1 And pray how do you know this, granting
that the fact is true V

1 Mrs. Fyfe was informed of the truth by the
boy whom you persuaded to betray his trust,
and has been puzzled by a likeness which she
saw in you to some one whom she had known
many years before. So strong a hold did this
take upon Mrs. Fyfe that she could not rest
that night of your arrival without making sure
that her suspicions were correct. So she paid
you a nocturnal visit, of which, I understand,
you were rendered suspicious. This convinced
her in her belief that you, Mr. Edwin Farquhar,
are one and the same person with a certain
Charles Cameron whom she had known many
years previously.'

Mr. Farquhar did not seem in the slightest
degree discomposed by what had been said ;

indeed, he smiled slightly, as much as though
he had fully anticipated this revelation.

Well, and what if our good friend Mrs. Fyfe
did recognise in me a person of the name of
Charles Cameron V

Mrs. Fyfe was a servant in the house of Mr.
Cameron of Dunluiart, and saw much of you
and your sister Mona while you and she were
at home. But before her marriage to Hew
Armitage, and before the death of your father,
whose heart you well-nigh broke, you had committed
a forgery which laid you open to the
severe punishment of the law. You know best
how you escaped the penalty which was your
due, but you may forget that, even after this
lapse of time, you may be arrested for the sin
of your youth.'

Granting that I were the Charles Cameron
of whom you speak, I doubt extremely if you
could take any steps to bring the law into action.
In the first place, the original prosecutors maybe
dead; and, in the second, the Crown won't
take up a case of this kind without very urgent
reason.'

If you do not think this sufficient in itself, I
presume you will at any rate recognise there is
sufficient reason in what Mrs. Fyfe has declared
to stand in the way of your resuming any
control of Miss Armitage's affairs.'

I recognise nothing of the kind,' replied Mr.
Farquhar, sharply. ' Do you think I care two
straws about what a silly old woman thinks
concerning me 1 Not only am I not Charles
Cameron or anyone else save the person I represent
myself to be, but I never even heard of
Mr. Cameron of Dunluiart, though I fancy that
I have heard my friend Hew Armitage mention
the fact that his wife's name was Mona
Cameron.'

I am bound to tell you, Mr. Farquhar,'
resumed Sir John, ' that we one and all flatly
disbelieve the document you said you brought
home from Australia to be genuine.'

It does not matter to me whether you believe
it or disbelieve it ; the fact remains the
same.'

Wait a moment, Mr. Farquhar ; we have
good cause for our disbelief. We have found

out, I will not at present say how, a very important
fact concerning this document — so important
a fact that, in itself, it would suffice to
have you brought before any criminal court in
the kingdom.'

I presume you infer that the document is a
forgery,' sneered Mr. Farquhar.

Exactly, but not merely on account of vague
suspicions. As I was going to tell you, we
have found that this will, if it may be so called,
of the late Hew Armitage, purporting to be
written in Australia in March of last year, has
been inscribed on paper of a kind that has only
lately been manufactured by a new company.
Their water-mark is upon it — an Edinburgh
firm, I may say — and they have declared it to
be simply impossible that this document could
have been written in Australia or anywhere else
at the date named.'

Perhaps Mr. Farquhar grew a shade paler,
but otherwise he remained outwardly unmoved
at this startling disclosure.

Lora alone noticed the swift, furtive look he
gave around him, as if scrutinising all possible

VOL. III. T

ways of escape if driven into a corner, but
when he spoke his voice at once betrayed the
repressed excitement under which he was
labouring. Hoarsely, and with a strange, nervous
tremor, he cried out,

It is a lie. I consider this a shameful conspiracy,
but so shameful that it is bound to
defeat its own ends. From first to last I deny
all that you have trumped up against me, and
I am prepared to do so before any witnesses
and at any court of law.'

A sharp ring resounded from the door-bell,
and something in its urgent summons seemed
to apprise Mr. Farquhar of the necessity of
bringing this interview to an end. With all his
calculating faculty, be had proceeded lately
like any fatalist, with eyes strangely blinded to
almost inevitable eventualities. He had acted
like a man who, seeing the tide gradually creeping
towards the outlying rock on which he had
his position, calmly closed his eyes, with the
intention to bestir himself as soon as the water
should approach closer — forgetful of the fact
that the onward rush would every moment
increase in impetus.

'And suppose I admit,' he asked, quietly,
suppose I admit that Mrs. Fyfe is right, and
that I am Charles Cameron — even suppose that
I do not deny having forged the will through
which I assumed my guardianship over your
affairs, Miss Lora, what then have you to
suggest?'

Miss Armitage wants me to act for her in
this matter,' replied Edward Duncan. ' What
Ave require is this : that you make restitution of
whatever you have fraudulently appropriated ;
that you give an exact account of all you have
done as trustee since the death of Mr. Maxwell
Armitage ; that you sign a statement admitting
the worthlessness of the document you produced
as signed by the late Hew Armitage, and the
fact of your having forged the signature at the
end of it; and, finally, that you promise to
absent yourself from this country for the rest
of your days, and that you will in no way
molest or in any way harm the person, property,
or reputation of Miss Lora Armitage, your
niece and my betrothed wife. These are the
terms on which that lady is mercifully willing

T 2

to enable you to escape from the fate you so
richly deserve. If, however, you should be so
foolish as to reject these terms, prompted only
by her sensitiveness and not by her sense of
justice, you will be arrested (1) as the Charles
Cameron who many years ago forged bills in
Dundee for a large amount; (2) as having
forged a man's signature to a document whereby
exceptional powers as trustee are devolved
on you ; and (3) for having attempted to set
fire to the property of your ward ; and here I
may add that I am now convinced this was
your intention on the night when I paid you a
visit '

And when I had you tied up by the grooms,
and thrust into the coal-cellar,' laughed Mr.
Farquhar, with scornful malice. ' You should
have seen your lover, my dearest Lora, in his
remarkably undignified condition on that eventful
night — vainly struggling, tied up' like a
drink-mad prisoner, and at last rendered quite
sweep-like by his repose among the grimy coals.
Ah, if-^- '

You acted like a coward, and you speak like

a coward, and for this renewed insult you will
have to answer if you should even yet be allowed
to escape the justice which awaits you.'

At this moment a knock was heard at the
door. Opening the latter, Sir John was told
by a servant that Dr. Steele and a gentleman
were in the library, and that the former wished
to see Miss Lora at once on a matter of the
utmost importance, adding, 'And he told me,
Sir John, that you were on no account to permit
Mr. Farquhar to leave till he and Miss Lora
should return.'

Lora heard the whispered words, and at once
rose to obey the doctor's message. Before
leaving the room, however, she spoke once
more to the man who stood watching her, a
strange smile intensifying the eager expression
of his face.

Before you, sir, lie paper and pen ; if you
have not written out or commenced the required
statement before I return, I will withdraw any
opposition I may have felt inclined to make
against your committal to prison — I say " may
have felt," for, after the way in which you have

to-day spoken, I would no longer feel the least
compunction in letting the law take its course.'

When Lora reached the library, she saw a
tall, white-haired man standing beside the familiar
figure of Dr. Steele. She glanced at him
with interest, for she knew that he must be
some one either directly or indirectly connected
with the matter now occupying all her attention.

1 Miss Lora, let me introduce to you an old
friend of mine, Mr. Strangeways.'

Lora bowed, and then, seeing the stranger's
outstretched hand, took it in her hand. Mr.
Strangeways held it in his grasp, almost timidly
at first, but, when she gently strove to disengage
it, she found that, consciously or unconsciously,
he tightened his hold.

What a strange man !' she thought, as Dr.
Steele's friend continued to look at her with
earnest, pathetic eyes, but without uttering a
single word.

She is like — wonderfully like— as lovely,
perhaps, yet I see a difference. God grant no
hidden thorn lurks anywhere behind this lovely
rose.'

Mr. Strangeways, I ought to tell you, my
clear, knew well both your father and mother —
far, far more intimately than ever I did ; he was
he was — your mother's chief friend.'

Lora turned again to the stranger, now doubly
interesting to her. Tears dropped from his eyes,
but by a great effort, evident to both spectators,
he restrained further manifestations of emotion.
Lora felt his hand quivering in hers, like a
frightened bird hiding underneath a drooping
lily ; but she no longer attempted to withdraw
her own.

Yes — I knew your mother,' at last said Mr.
Strange ways, in a low voice. How his tone
thrilled Lora — she felt touched by it even more
than by his worn face and the pathos of his
eyes, for there was in it an infinity of longing,
an echo of deathless sorrow. ' I knew your
mother ; she was noble and true in all things,
lovelier than any woman I have ever seen —
lovelier even than you, beautiful as you are,
Miss Lora. Ah, it was a cruel, a terrible thing
that came between these two. My dear, may
God spare you knowledge of the terrible deeps

of suffering into which the poor human soul
may sink ! Yes, her husband — your father —
went away on a vain search ; and, when all was
at an end, he denied God, and strove to meet
death ere death were ready; then he grew old,
and waited with sad patience — with weary,
weary resignation — till the great mystery of his
life was laid bare. It was only when life seemed
slowly shortening for him that he accidentally
learned that he had a daughter living — bone of
his bone, flesh of his flesh, child of his love and
that of the woman who was to him all in all.'

Mr. Strangeways suddenly let go Lora's hand
and sank into a seat by the table beside him ;
leaning on the latter, he buried his face in his
hands aud burst into a passion of weeping.

Oh, what is it — what is it V cried Lora, tears
falling from her eyes, and her hands supplicatingly
beseeching Dr. Steele. Some new-born
thought burned in her brain, like a fiery brand
in a waste place. It was not articulate, but it
was there, vivid, vital, about to become something
terrible and all-impulsive.

Dr. Steele rose and came close to her.

'My child, you always wear your poor father's
miniature, do you not V

Yes — this is it — it always hangs here in this
locket.'

Open the locket.'

Lora did so, looking wonderingly at Dr. Steele.

This is the likeness of your father as a young
man ; he would be many years older-looking
by this time, and if he had suffered much he
might even have the resemblance of an old man
be grey-haired and have deep lines on his
face.'

Well?' said Lora, breathlessly, 'well V

Dr. Steele turned aside his face as he said, ina
tone of suppressed emotion — ' I have always
considered Mr. Strangeways to be strangely like
your father.'

As he spoke, the stranger lifted up his head
and fixed his tearful eyes in a yearning gaze
upon the face of the girl before him.

Lora glanced again and again from Mr.
Strangeways to the miniature she held in front
of him. Suddenly she turned deadly pale, and
had to lean against the table for support.

The thought that flashed into her mind now
became the one fact of life ; it was like the
insistent sound of a small hammer amidst the
crash of surrounding machinery in motion.
She felt as if she should go mad if this sad-eyed
man before her would not speak one word,
but would only gaze upon her with unfathomable
longing. Her eyes burned with an intense
glow, deeper and more sombre because of the
absolute whiteness of her face.

4 How strange !' she thought. ; Everything is

slipping away from me ; I must sing that strange

song I heard once — let me see, how did it

go?—

A little way, and an end at last ;
The dead soul laughs at sorrow's blast !''

No, no, that is too sad ! Why, I '

Dr. Steele had been watching Lora. He saw
her deathly pallor and the unnatural light in
her eyes, and when he witnessed a certain
change pass over her face and heard her
muttering incoherently, he at once put his arm
round her and then whispered in her ear,

Lora, don't lose your control ! My dear, be

not afraid — you have guessed the secret, be not
fearful as to its truth ! I will leave you fora
few minutes, but I must not be longer, for
he, as well as you and I, must play the parts
allotted to us in that last act of a long tragedy
that last act of a long tragedy — that last act
which upstairs has just reached a crisis.*

As he spoke he passed from the room. His
reminder of the scene she had just left, more
than his first words, recalled her to herself and
enabled her to gain her self-control.

With a swiftness of motion of which a moment
or two ago she would have been quite incapable,
she gained the side of Hew Armitage.
He it was who now seemed almost paralysed,
for he only stared at her in the way that a dumb
animal will when its human master approaches
it with some purpose inscrutable to it.

In another moment the strangeness of the
revelation, the dread that came over her, would
have prevented these two — father and daughter
from instantaneous recognition of each other's
new-born love. But with a sobbing cry the
white-haired man rose to his full height, and,

stretching out his arms, called his daughter's
name.

Dr. Steele came quietly into the library again ;
for much as he would have preferred to have
absented himself longer, he could not do so
owing to the necessity of his and the others'
presence upstairs. He saw that at last the
father had found the daughter whom he had
never seen, and the orphan girl a father whom
she had loved, but with a love more reverentially
sacred than personal. Lora was lying
against her father's breast, clasped in his enfolding
arms ; down her face streamed tears, half
of sorrow for what she saw and knew, half of
gladness and new strange joy for the love
that had come to her as it were out of the
grave.

As for Hew Armitage himself, he seemed to
have cast back the heavy burden of age : he
stood erect, vigorous, a proud and almost joyous
light in his eyes, a smile of transient happiness
upon his worn face.

'God bless you, my friend cried the old

doctor, in a tremulous voice, manfully striving
to hide the tears that dimmed his own sight.
Armitage, Hew, this late happiness has at least
been vouchsafed to you ; you must be brave
and strong now to the end. Are you able for
the interview with this devil in human shape —
this man who has lived in evil as most men
flourish in the free air of heaven, who has
overshadowed all your life, and who has been
an unmitigated curse to all who have come
in his way ; tell me, are you able to confront
him V

i Yes, Steele, lead the way. The sooner this
thing is done the better. Lora, my darling, you
would fain have been merciful, but you knew
not with whom you had to deal. To know this
man as he really is, is almost enough to stifle all
belief in God. Come ; I must see this man once
more — that it is for the last time, I pray from the
depths of my heart.'

When the three reached the first landing, Dr.
Steele beckoned them into the small ante-room,,
in which Mrs. Fyfe had waited for a time, and
wherein the detective still sat in readiness for

the moment when his services would be required.
Whispering to the latter to come into the 
at the very instant he should be summoned,
or if he heard anything like a struggle,
Dr. Steele and his companions drew close to the
heavy curtains that closed off the ante-room
from the drawing-room. Here they could make
out all that was said almost as distinctly as if
there were no barrier between them at all.

For the first few moments they heard no
sound at all save the footsteps of some one impatiently
pacing to and fro. Then the voice
of Mr. Farquhar was heard, stating that he
would wait Miss Armitage's convenience no
longer, and that he would at once take his
leave.

Go into the room — be quick,' whispered Dr.
Steele, almost shoving Lora from the ante-room.

Duncan had risen to prevent their visitor's
departure or to call on the detective, but ' stood
back as Lora came swiftly into the room.
Even then the young man wondered what
had come over the girl he loved. It seemed as
if the past few moments had intensified her

womanhood, had added depth to the beauty
which had always been hers, but which was
now more striking than ever.

Well, Mr. Farquhar — if that is the name you
still wish to be known by — I have been detained
longer than I had anticipated. However, it
will have afforded you all the more time in
which to write out the statement, if you have
decided to take advantage of my offer.'

Curse you and your offer !' cried the man,
his face dark with the fury he could no longer
control. ' I've had enough of this nonsense — I
defy you and all your friends. I've had my
turn — ha ! ha ! — and can afford to let you have
yours now. Yes, Madam Lora, I composed the
charming document and forged your cursed
father's signature to it ; yes, Master Duncan, I
did attempt to set Firnie Knowe on fire, and
wish to heaven it was now in ashes, along
with the mortal remains of the pious Mrs. Fyfe,
and the godly young heiress-hunter whom I
shut up in the coal-cellar as I would have done
a dog. Stop there, Sir John! — I am armed,
and will shoot the first person who attempts to

leave this room. After I have left the house,
you can put whom you like on my track and
catch me, if you can ! Before 1 go, my dear
Miss Armitage, I should like to supplement by
a little information what you already know concerning
your father '

1 Do not speak to me in that tone, or I will not
listen to another word !'

1 Ah, my young friend, Duncan, you see what
a high-spirited wife you have before you ; I wish
you joy, I'm sure. I would have married her
myself, whether she willed or no, but that I
don't care for she-devils.'

Duncan sprang forward and dealt Mr. Farquhar
a blow that sent him reeling towards the door ;
but, before the latter could retaliate, Lora had
placed herself between them, first telling her
lover to restrain himself for her sake, and then
adding sternly to her late guardian —

Tell me what you have to say, but keep to
the point.'

Yes, Lora Armitage, I caused your mother
some of her bitterest moments. This is, perhaps,
the only thing in my life for which I have

the slightest regret ; for, after all, poor Mona was

too weak ever to really cross me in anything I

had set myself to do. But, in addition to making

a tidy little sum out of your father by false

pretences, I caused him to leave this country

on a wild-goose chase. I met him again at sea

when both our vessels had been wrecked, and

then through me he suffered the agony of the

damned, and all that he went through in

Australia and on his hopeless voyage home

again was due to your humble servant. This

will be a pleasant memory for you to keep of

me ! When I found out, on my coming over to

this country after close on twenty years' absence,

all concerning Hew Armitage's having sailed

in the Macedon from Melbourne, and how that

vessel had never been heard of since, I saw

where my opportunity was, and took it, with —

on the whole — very considerable success, if I

may say so.'

After what you tell me — inhuman devil that

you seem to be — you do not dare to expect that

I will show you the slightest mercy — uncle

though you be !'

VOL. III. U

'I don't want your mercy, curse you, you
young fool ! And I tell you this beforehand,
that, though I have not the least intention of
being caught and brought to what you call
justice, I would, rather than incur the certainty
of a life-long sentence, shoot myself. No, my
young lady, you have seen the last of Edwin
Farquhar, but you have not seen the last of me !
I will turn up again. It may not be for years ;
but some time, soon or late, you will have cause
to regret more bitterly than you have yet done
ever having crossed me ! In the meantime —
au revoir P

Mr. Farquhar made a low bow as he spoke,
but stopped half-way, as if transfixed. His face
became as ghastly pale as it had done the
night before, when, in the wan light of a street
gas-lamp, he had seen what he had at first taken
for the apparition of one long dead. His eyes
became fixed in a state of horror, and his jaw
fell, even as in the case of one stricken some
mortal blow, and feeling his life ebbing fast
away on the failing breath.

4 The second time I' he gasped, hoarsely, still

staring wildly at what he saw in the mirror
before him — a tall man, with white hair falling
down his furrowed face, but with eyes burning
with a terrible fury. Then, through the absolute
stillness of the room, sounded hollowly a strange
voice :

Charles Leith !' the grave has indeed given
up its dead !'

u2

CHAPTER IX.

FOILED.

Charles Leith ! the grave has indeed given
up its dead !'

The words broke the spell of horror which
had entranced Mr. Farquhar. Swinging round,
he faced the new comer, and in a moment
realised that it was no vision he had seen the
night before, that it was no apparition of one
dead whom he now looked upon, that it was
indeed none other than that Hew Armitage
whom he had so bitterly wronged.

Devil in human shape, why is it that you are
for ever coming between the happiness of me
and mine — have you not already accomplished
sufficient evil ? Is there not already upon you

a weight of sin greater than mortal man ever
bore before V

Even yet Mr. Farquhar — to call him still by
the last name under which he was to be known
o those in that room — had not recovered sufficient
composure to enable him to speak. As he
stared at this white-haired man, so like and yet
so different from the Hew Armitage whom he
had known many years before, the horror passed
-away from his eyes, and was succeeded by a look
of intense fear. This, however, was little more
than momentary, for he speedily realised that he
had little to fear from the personal wrath of the
prematurely aged man before him.

4 So you are not dead after all, Hew Armytage
! I suppose you think you have turned up
in the nick of time, and scored heavily against
me at last, but I may tell you that in any case
my game here was played out, and that nothing
can undo the past % Do you still miss Mona —
do you remember our voyage together in the
cutter of the Australasian — do you V

Charles Leith, for some mysterious purpose
God has allowed you to pass to and fro upon the

earth like a devouring flame, consuming or
blighting whatsoever came in your way. But
at last the day of your evil prosperity has come
to an end ; there are sufficient charges against
you to ensure your passing the rest of your days
as a convict. My daughter mercifully offered you
certain chances, but, even if you had accepted
these, I should have felt bound to cancel them,
for there is a limit beyond which human forgiveness
must not go. Man, have you not one word
of regret, of sorrow, to say for all the dreadful
evil you have done V

Mr. Farquhar laughed scornfully.

I regret nothing, except perhaps not having
made surer of you when I had you in my power
in that boat.'

Do you realise what is before you — at the
best, lifelong imprisonment as a convict, but
far more likely weeks of dreadful waiting, to be
succeeded by a shameful death at the hands of
the hangman V

Farquhar started violently, the shyness coming
once more into his lips.

What do you mean ? AVhat folly makes you
talk like this V

'Have you not heard the thing every newsboy
is shouting out — a terrible and mysterious
murder in Murray Street V

'Weill'

'The latest account of this I heard just before
coming here ; the dying man found time to
mutter the name of his murderer.'

The paleness spread from Farquhar's lips
throughout his face, and his hand stole furtively
beneath his coat-flap.

'And even at this moment, Charles Leith, a
detective waits in the street outside to arrest you
the moment you leave this house.'

Then, seeing the surprise depicted on the faces
of Lora and Sir John, Hew Armitage added,

Yes, this is the man who has added to his
long list of crimes by stealing the jewels from
your safe, Sir John, and finally murdering his
accomplice.'

Despite her loathing for the man before her,
Lora could not help a feeling of pity for the
sudden abject prostration into which her late
guardian sank. It seemed as if that terrible
breath of age which comes to us all sooner or
later swept over him with its icy touch. He

sank back in the chair from which he had risen,
his white hands hanging nervelessly by his side,
and the pallor of his face becoming a painful
index to the suffering within.

After one or two ineffectual attempts to master
himself, he at last, by a great effort, regained his
self-control.

I see that the game is played out at last,' he
said, rising as he spoke. ' It is useless for me
to say anything, either in extenuation of what I
have done or to plead for your mercy. But I
can at least make some reparation. Hew Armytage,
I cannot give you back the happiness you
have lost, but I can tell you a secret — I can tell
you something about Mona that will make you
happier for the rest of your days. This is a
thing between us two, a sacred confidence that
no human ear should listen to save your own.
It is a matter between the dead and yourself.'

At a sign from Hew Armitage, the others fell
back towards the ante-room. All were too excited
and too interested to be suspicious. If
shrewd old Dr. Steele had been actually in the
room, he would almost certainly have so placed

the two men that they were next the curtain
that divided the two rooms — as it was, they
stood close to the central door.

They saw Farquhar stoop towards his companion
and whisper a few words which Mr.
Armitage seemed unable to catch. The next
moment his arm shot out with something whitely
gleaming at the end of it — there was a flash of
steely light, and Lora saw her father stagger
back with red blood spurting from his shoulder.

Before anyone could cry out — and the deed
itself had been so sudden and noiseless that
those in the ante-room heard almost nothing of
it— Farquhar had hurled back the door, and
dashed downstairs with reckless speed.

Within a second or two, however, the quick
ear of the detective in the ante-room made him
surmise that something had happened, and
springing to the top of the stairs, just as cries of
consternation came from the drawing-room, he
caught sight of the figure of the fugitive rounding
the corner of the kitchen passage.

For with that intense quick witted less, more
characteristic, perhaps, of the animal than of the

human being, Farquhar had formulated in his
mind his sole chance of escape. He suspected
there was some detective in the house, probably
behind those very curtains from which Hew
Armitage had issued, and he knew that one
awaited him in the street outside. His experience
of the night before proved invaluable to
him now. He knew the exact way to the
laundry at the back of the house, where no
window could yet have replaced that which he
had so carefully cut away, and the narrow lane
at the back of the garden led off into a number
of small streets through which he knew his way
perfectly.

As he dashed down the kitchen stairs one
of the servants bravely but vainly strove to
arrest his flight, but with a fierce blow he struck
her in the face, and sent her reeling backward
half-insensible. In a few moments he had
gained the laundry, sprung through the window-frame,
mounted the garden wall, and disappeared
from sight.

Meanwhile Hew Armitage lay back on a sofa
fighting against the swooning weakness that

had come upon him. The wound he had received
was a slight one, a stab in the fleshy-part
of the arm, from which, with care, no evil
result might be anticipated. Lora felt far too
thankful at her father's escape to feel annoyed,
or indeed to think at all about the man who had
striven to add another cowardly and useless
murder to the list of his many crimes ; but her
lover and Dr. Steele were furious at the misadventure.


Wearily, but with a light of gladness in his
eyes as he looked at the face of his daughter
stooping over him, Hew Armitage said, quietly,

The shadows of the night have passed away,
and now I shall rest in peace waiting for the
end.'

CHAPTER X.

THE HAVEN GAINED.

Some weeks after the escape of Edwin Farquhar
— alias Charles Leith, alias Charles Cameron
■ — for he did escape the most active search, and
in spite of the large reward offered for information
that should lead to the capture of the
murderer— there were signs of great commotion
visible at the Ramsay' house in Grant Square.

In the drawing-room were gathered all the
family and many friends, and even the invalid
Mrs. Maxwell Armitage was able to be present
on the couch upon which she had been wheeled
in from an adjoining room. The poor woman was
experiencing a slow recovery from the shock that
had prostrated her, but her mind was now at ease,

owing to the generous stipulations Lora had
made concerning her, and upon the fulfilment
of which Hew Armitage now also insisted. Di
Steele was there, looking wonderfully hale and
vigorous, despite his great age ; and old Mr.
Douglas Hannay, who had the appearance of
supreme content with himself and things in
general, as if, indeed, he had been mainly instrumental
in bringing matters to their present
happy pass. Not far from him was Mrs. Fyfe,
looking quite genial despite her stern features,
save when some memory happened to occur to
her concerning certain remarks that had been
made about her the last time she was in that
room. On one such occasion the old lawyer
heard her mutter — ' Stole his money, indeed ; I
would like to know how much lies stole in his
time.'

In the centre of the room stood a group of
the chief persons interested in what was taking
place. Lora, dressed all in white, and looking
so lovely that all the old men present felt how
aged they were, and yet felt young again in
looking continuously at this fresh and exquisite

youthful loveliness, stood a little in advance of
Helen and Ethel Kamsay, both dressed in the
same manner ; and behind them was their
mother, looking as stately as was her wont on
great occasions — 'a regular Queen Mary,' as
one of her sons enthusiastically remarked. To
the left of them was Edward Duncan, very
spruce indeed, and looking happier than that
light-hearted young artist had appeared for
long. Beside him was his friend Gemmell, the
young lawyer who had confided to him the
secret of the recent manufacture of the paper
on which Mr. Farquhar's document had been
written, looking hardly less festive than his
friend, beside whom stood also the eldest son
of the Ramsay household. Between the two
groups stood Sir John and Dr. Steele, and in
front of them was Hew Armitage, a glad smile
on his face, though old and irrecoverable sadness
still lay deep in his eyes ; and by his side
stood his trustiest friend of late years, Garth
Trendall. In the midst of them all was a tall
figure clad in a black robe, the minister, who,
according to the Scottish custom, was conducting

the marriage service in the house of the
bride's parents or guardians.

For at last Lora's marriage-day had come
round, and now the binding words had been
uttered, and she and her husband were already
man and wife.

What happy weeks these had been since that
eventful day which brought a father to her love
and saw the absolute discomfiture of her traitorous
pseudo-guardian. She had been in a
whirl of excitement ever since, but through all
she found her deepest pleasure in the company of
that poor father to whom her whole heart went
out in yearning love. Gradually she learned
all his sad story, and she often brought the
tears to the eyes of sturdy Garth Trendall by
her gratitude to him for all he had done for the
castaway whom he had sheltered and otherwise
befriended throughout these long years.

Hew Armitage found himself a far richer man
than he had formerly been, but it was not without
extreme reluctance that he brought himself
to visit Firnie Knowe once more. When this
first visit was over, however, he felt glad at

the idea that the remainder of his days should be
mainly spent in the scene where, if he had suffered
much, he had enjoyed the happiest years
of his life.

As soon as the young people had gone away
southward, Garth Trendall prepared to take his
leave also. He felt that his mission with Mr.
Strangeways, as he still mostly thought of him,
was now at an end ; and, moreover, despite the
excitement of all that these weeks revealed to
him, he began to weary for the beauty and
homeliness of his native place. He had taken
one long look into the life of cities, and he felt
glad and content that his own lot had been cast
where it had been. He felt wearied by these
great numbers of men, the ceaseless going to
and fro, the daily stress of mind under which
most people seemed to labour, and he thought
resentfully of that quiet Cornish fishing village
beneath the rugged cliffs and beside the great
sea. And now he felt all the more pleased to
return because he was to go back as the minister
of Hew Armitage, being empowered by the
latter to carry out many of the sanitary, educational,

and pleasure-giving schemes over which
the two had often talked in those bygone days
when Mr. Strangeways was the ' schoolmaster '
of St. Aphra. Then he would have so much to
tell his wife and friends, not only about his own
experiences — indeed, less about them — but about
the man whom one of them, Jasper Polgarth,
had so cruelly wronged ; and also to prepare
what would be, for St. Aphra, a grand ovation
on the occasion of the visit to that place of Mr.
Strangeways, his daughter, and her husband.

For, after Lora had declared that she had two
lovers, an old one and a young one, and that
she could not be happy unless she lived with
them both, and after it had been arranged that
all three were to live at Firnie Knowe in the
summer and autumn, and in London during the
winter and spring, she had pleaded with Edward
that they should return from their honeymoon
in Paris by way of Cornwall, should meet her
father either in London or Truro, and then proceed
with him to St. Aphra. Hew Armitage
was only too glad to agree to all this, though he
would fain have kept Garth Trendall beside
VOL. III. X

him, especially after the departure of the two
young people.

What a day it was for St. Aphra when it
became known that Garth Trendall was back
again. The little cottage was besieged by rough,
kindly callers to such an extent that the occupant
was forcibly reminded of some of those
thronged restaurants in the great city at which
he had wondered so much. The simple fisher-folk
were never tired of hearing the marvellous
story of ' their ' Mr. Strangeways — and, indeed,
for many successive years their late schoolmaster
formed the subject of endless conversation, and,
it must be added, in course of time, considerable
romancing.

But if Trendall's return was a great event,
what was it when, one lovely day in the beginning
of June, all the fishermen of the place appeared
decked out in their very best, when net-mending
and all manner of work was put aside,
and when at last a waving flag on the Beacon
Cliff told them that the look-out had signalled
the approach of the carriage coming from Ortho,
and containing the three visitors !

When the old-fashioned 'poster' drew tip at
the top of the steep path that led downward
from the cliff to St. Aphra, it was at once surrounded
by a score of Trendall's special friends,
headed by Garth himself, and the tears came
into Hew Armitage's eyes at the genuine warmth
of the enthusiastic reception with which he was
greeted.

It was indeed a triumphal procession that
entered the quiet little village! The good
people therein were divided in their affection
and pride in their old schoolmaster and in admiration
for his beautiful daughter, lovelier
than anyone they had ever seen, and dressed ina
way that was a revelation to the feminine
St. Aprons. A grand lunch, chiefly consisting
of all kinds of fish variously done, was served
in the open air, but wine and many other
unaccustomed delicacies were there also, provided
by Mr. Armitage's foresight. When, in
tho midst of it, Garth Trendall rose and began
a speech, there was absolute silence everywhere,
save a child's laugh in the distance, the
song of a lark in the blue sky, and the sadly

x 2

sweet, monotonous undertone of the calm sea
whispering to the land. An eloquent speech it
was — a wonderful one all Trend all's fellow-fishermen
thought, but it became doubly touching
when the speaker referred to all that Mr.
Armitage was going to do for the place where
he had received shelter and unvarying kindness
through so many long years.

Poor Hew Armitage ! when he rose to reply
he struggled bravely with his increasing
emotion, but at last he found it vain to strive
any further, and so sank back in his seat after
muttering a few words, the tears falling from
his eyes. Great w r as the delight and enthusiastic
the admiration, however, when Lora rose
up and made the brightest and merriest and
happiest little speech possible, concluding with
an unmistakably genuine expression of her
gratitude to all in St Aphra who had made her
father's sojourn in that place so memorably
pleasant to him, and especially thanking Garth
Trendall, whom, she added, her father loved
and admired as it had been his lot to love and
admire few men.

Enthusiastic cheers followed for ' Mrs. Duncan,'
' Miss Lora,' Miss Lora Armitage,' ' Miss
Strangeways,' and ' The daughter o' our schoolmaster,'
according to the fancy of those who
thus gave vent to their pent-up feelings.

Hew Armitage stayed over-night with the
Trendalls, the young couple driving back to
Ortho in the lovely moonlight that made the
grand Cornish scenery seem so solemnly beautiful.
He moved about as if in a dream, revisiting
the well-remembered scenes. As he stood in
the brilliant moonshine that lit up sea and cliff
by the side of the Slice, and saw the tide rippling
shoreward, and heard it making a subdued
music as it gurgled and lisped among the hollows
of the rocks and the softly-swaying seaweed,
he found it difficult to realise what had
once been there enacted. Nay, more, he found
it difficult to realise that his life as Mr. Strange-ways
had been anything else but a mere dream
an imagined existence.

It was with different feelings indeed that Hew
Armitage left St. Aphra this second time ; no
longer in a torment of terrible memories and

in a tumult of hope and fear, but with a great
peace in his heart — a peace that made his deep
life-sorrow seem beautiful, even as the afternoon
glow will render lovely and strangely solemn
one of those sombre [Marian landscapes, which
make much of central Italy so inexpressibly
sad.

It was not till three years had passed that
word reached Hew Armitage and those dear
to him concerning the man who had been the
evil genius of his life. The news was sent
home by some friend of Edward Duncan. It
appeared that Charles Leith — for by some
strange perversity he had reassumed a name
which one would have thought he would have
been careful to absolutely disown — had managed
to reach London in safety, and that he remained
there for some months, having been able
to do this owing to money which he had already
deposited there as a precautionary measure.
When the time arrived when he thought he
could leave England with safety, he crossed to
Hamburg, and sailed thence to America. In

New York he remained for some time, soon
spent all the money he had, became recklessly
dissipated, and began to lose that wonderful
quick-wickedness and self-control by which he
had so often escaped well-merited punishment,
and by which he had been able to accomplish
so much evil. At last he was arrested as one of
the leaders of a band of skilful forgers, was
tried, found guilty, and sentenced to penal
servitude for life. He had undergone the
prolonged torment of his punishment for about
two years, vainly seeking some means of escape,
but finding none, till one day there occurred,
on the island where the convict establishment
was situated, one of those sudden and apparently
preconceived revolts which all gaolers
dread so much. In the scuffle which ensued
Leith killed one of the warders, and effected his
escape ; but two days after he was found lurking
among some weedy boulders at the other
end of the island. He was very roughly treated,
but he had now become sullenly indifferent to
all that might happen to him before the certain
doom which he knew would be his. A few

weeks later this man, who had so triumphed in
his evil-doing, who had wrought incalculable
suffering, and had never voluntarily done one
good action, at last swung to and fro in the chill
grey air of a winter morning — the strong sea-wind
not allowing the corpse of the executed
convict to rest even in death.

EPILOGUE.

Late one afternoon, in the full tide of summer,
a little girl, herself something between a flower
and a bird, ran among the innumerable flowery
paths of the beautiful gardens of Firnie Knowe
gardens haunted all day by bees and butterflies,
and by hungry thrushes, blackbirds, chaffinches,
and even a vagrant rook or two.

An old mau, seated on a wicker couch in the
balcony, sometimes regarded the setting sun,
again affectionately watched the happy little
figure in the garden. The latter, as she stooped
to shake a bumble-bee out of the bell of a
large campanula in which it was drowsily swaying
to and fro, caught sight of a young wood-pigeon
which had fallen from the nest in the

old yew-tree close beside her. Taking the
frightened but unhurt little thing in her hands
with a caressing tenderness, she carried it towards
the balcony to show it to the white-haired
man who was so quietly sitting there in the
full glow of the western sky.

Oh, look, grandpa! here's a little wood-pigeon
from the nest in the old yew-tree !
Isn't it a darling little thing 1 and what a
funny wide mouth it has !'

The old man smiled gently, but did not
reply.

'What is it, grandpa? Are you not well?
Don't you know me, dear grandpa, that you
look at me so ? T am your Mona, your own
little Mona !'

'Mona!' said the old man, dreamily, fixing
his rapt gaze on the fawn and purple and gold
of the summer sunset ; * yes, Mona, did you not
whisper to me last night ; did I not see you
descend as a star from heaven, and become the
spirit of her whom I love — even of you, whose
voice I now hear.'

'Grandpa, dear grandpa!' cried the

child, in a hushed, awed voice ; for there was

something that stilled her strangely — ' are you

not happy V

My darling ! Yes, I am happy, oh, so happy !'
From the room within came the sweet strain

of a pathetic melody, and softly singing through

it breathed Lora's voice —

There lips shall cling to lips —

There hands clasp hands :
Love shall have no eclipse
In these glad lands.

Love, so great, so dear,
With glad-eyed Death draw near :
Death, thou hast no sting —
Death, with the sunlit wing !'

Little Mona thought she felt her grandfather's
soft clasp of her hand tighten a little. Gently
she leaned her head against his breast, no
longer vaguely distrustful of something beyond
her ken. Was it the sunset glow that so irradiated
his face for a moment — some reflection of
the heavenly gold that shone on those wide-open
eyes? Slowly the strange irradiation
passed ; more swiftly the gleam in that fixed
gaze died away.

Hew Armitage closed his eyes, and just the

faintest breath fanned Mona's soft cheek. Suddenly
a thrush burst into full song, the wild
strains thrilling with the singer's ecstasy, and a
low breeze crept along the mignonette-bordered
pathways, just stirring here and there a fallen
blossom or shell-like rose-leaf.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

^

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

<t-

-4

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN Svo, 6s.

KNIGHT-EEEANT.

"knight-Errant' is marked by the authors best qualities as a writer of fiction, and
displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works." — Athenaeum.

"The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very charming; there
is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to accomplish its author's purpose." —
Literary World.

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its intense human
feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional proof, if such were needed,
that Miss Lyell has a mandate to write"— Academy.

DONOVAN:

A Modern ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time"— Standard.

WE TTVO.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the boot is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought"— Scotsman.

IN THE GOLDEN DAYS.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it .reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads"— Spectator.

WON BY WAITING.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially;
—the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life'' — Academy.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

REMINISCENCES OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Rev. C. Alli Wilkinson, M.A., Author of " Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
Contents:— Advantages of Eton— Kate' s Character— Flogging— Learning by
Heart, and Verses— Jokes and Warnings— Epigrams— Instruction and Results
Dearth of Masters — Religious Instruction — Spiritual Instruction and Incidents
of Chapel— Fagging— Colonel and Fag— Fighting— Pig Fair— Banks'
Swim from Windsor Bridge to Brocas Clump — Acting— The Debating Society,
so-called 'Pop'— The Philolutric Club, and Incidents— Selwyn Major and
Swimming — Games — Boating and Cricket — Matches and Speeches — Cricket
Again — Amusements of Long Chamber — Throwing the Cricket-ball and Rat-catching—
Tossing in a Blanket— Disgraceful Arrangement for Colleges
Bishop of Wellington.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Alfred Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

<fec. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
Mr. Jeaffreson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he has
been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton
and of Nelson"— Globe.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Ernestine Edgcumbe and Lady Mary
Wood. With Illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.
Contents :— En Route— Algiers— In the Arab Quarter— Cast Away— Philippeville
and Constantine— Coasting to Carthage— Tunis— An Arab Harem— Malta —
The Knights of St. John— Sight-seeing— Hagar Them— ' Floating Fortresses'
—The World's Girdle— A Ball on Board Ship— Good-bye to Malta— Classic
Ground— Corfu and Avlona Bay— A Nice Bit of Seamanship— Cettinje— San
Georgia and Scarpello— Dalmatian Towns— Sebenico— Zara and Pola— Homeward
Bound.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IN MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,
Author of " Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. the PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
The story which Dr. Munro has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as interesting"— Spectator.

"These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them"— Globe.
Full of interesting notes on the army and army life"— Graphic.
"All who love to read of the exploits of a small but almost invincible army
will be thankful to Dr. Munro for his spirited book"— Publishers' Circular.
"A very entertaining book." — Bookseller.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

Ashton, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small 4to. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume." — Globe.

Mr. Ashton has produced a volume of light and pleasant character'— Morn ing
Post.

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
"With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, R.L 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman"— Horse and Hour d.

"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

•'The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations'' — The Field.

Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting."
— The World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses o£ Greek Life and Scenery," &c 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

"The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell us"— Daily
Telegraph.

' Through Cyprus ' may be heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel'' — Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OP KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of

the King. 6s.

"Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took

precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the

Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly interesting'' — Spectator.

An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old king,

in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this

century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom

the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral office"— Si. James's

Gazette.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.

With Portrait. 6s.

"Peg "Washington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life

in the middle of the 18th century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time." — G. A. S. in the Illustrated London News.

Mr. Molloy's work has the merit at least of being from the first chapter to the
last without a single dull page"— Daily News.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of 'The County Families, ' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels." — Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Daily News.



THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

and the Events which led to them. By Charles Boyle,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo, Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Royle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Royle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Royle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— St. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8 vo. With Map of Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject." — Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention"— Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Lei land. 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family"— Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"— Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance." — St. James's Gazette.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jeaffreson's account of Byron will be prepared to

Snd that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many." — Morning Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2, demy 8vo. sos.
"The volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, and Poland
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of permanent
value to the students of history." — Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 Illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through its.
pages and its numerous illustrations"— M morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity"— Athenaeum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject"— Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature. " — Athenaeum.

These letters are' exceptionally graceful and touching, and may be read with
profit.' — Graphic.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of " A Sea Queen," « The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. 6s.

Catherine. By the Author of " Lauderdale." 3 vols.

The author is really an able writer, and he has a good grasp of character"—
Academy.
"A moving and animated story"— Daily Telegraph.

JACOBUS WIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, Author

of ' No Saint,' ' An Open Foe,' &c. 3 vols.
"The story is one of powerful interest"— HI stated London News.
"A thoroughly interesting story, and is worth reading in its entirety"—
Literary World.

A GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP. By W.

DUTTON Bernard. 3 vols.
Mr. Bernard's story is free from digressive description, is brightly told, and its
realism never degenerates into coarseness ; the story is from first to last exciting""
Morning Post.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.
"A bright and wholesome story"— St. James's Gazette.

FROM HEATHER HILLS. By Mrs. J. Hartley

Perks. 2 vols.
'From Heather Hills' is very pleasant reading indeed. It is healthy without
being violent, subtle without being affected Mrs. Perks has a grace and delicacy
of touch that is quite charming"— Saturday Review.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of "Lady Lovelace," " Judith Wynne," &c. 3 vols.
'A Dateless Bargain ' has supplied a fresh proof of the author's skill in turning
out very good and workmanlike fiction." — Academy.
"A clever and interesting novel." — Literary World.

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY in 1814,

1815, 1816. By Hamilton Aide, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Mr. Aide's new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best.

The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is sustained all

through, both in speech and action." — Athenaeum.

DRIVEN BEFORE THE STORM. By Gertrude

Force, Author of " In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols.
"The authoress stamps her individuality upon what she writes, entering with
a pleasant warm-heartiness into the mimic joys and sorrows of her fancy, and
dwelling upon them with a ready pen and much native eloquence." — Daily
Telegraph.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE SPORT OF CHANCE. By William Sharp.

3 vols. (Shortly.)

A NEW FACE AT THE DOOR. By Jane Stanley,
Author of " A Daughter of the Gods." 2 vols. (In the Press.)

SWEET IS TRUE LOVE. By Katharine King,

Author of " The Queen of the Regiment," " Off the Roll," &c.

2 vols.

A DOUBLE WEDDING. By the Author of « St.

Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

THE GAY WORLD. By Joseph Hatton, Author

of " Clothe," &c. 3 vols.

"The chief characters all have a certain charm. One follows with genuine
anxiety the course of their career." — Globe.

The book is interspersed with many clever passages, bits of choice description,
and happy touches of character ; it is the ablest novel Mr. Hatton has
written . ' 'academy.

CAST ON THE WATERS. By Hugh Coleman

Davidson, Author of " The Green Hills by the Sea." 3 vols.

"The every day events of the tale are all forcibly and graphically portrayed."
Morning Post.

The characters are well drawn in caricaturist's style, and the dialogue apt
and amusing'— Scotsman.

IN BAD HANDS. By F. W. Robinson, Author

of " Grandmother's Money," " The Courting of Mary Smith," &c.

3 vols.

The volumes are alive with touches of humour and pathos, and are pretty
sure to be welcomed by novel-readers." — Athenaeum

THE TREASURE OF THORBURNS. A Novel.

By Frederick Boyle, Author of " A Good Hater," " Legends of
my Bungalow," &c. 3 vols.
"The story is excellent in its way, more than sufficiently well written, and with
certain touches of fresh originality that lift it out of the pale of the commonplaces"—
Literary World.

WEEPING FERRY. A Novel. By George False.

2 vols.
'Weeping Ferry' is decidedly above the average of contemporary novels." —
Saturday Review.

Mr. false's pages are simply and prettily written"— Scotsman.

COULD HE DO BETTER? By Arthur A.

Hoffman. 3 vols.
"The writing is throughout careful yet easy, never tame and never affected,
and the structure of the story has compactness, proportion, and symmetry." —
Spectator.

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of " It was a Lover and his Lass," " Agnes," &c. 3 vols.
"No previous work of Mrs. Oliphant better justifies her high position among
English novelists than her new book. It is difficult to speak too highly of the
truth, power, and pathos of this tale"— Morning Post.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042032349
