v^

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS



5V>5\2t
v.i

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barteredhonourno01sher

WHISPERS.

A VOLUME OF LYRICAL POEMS,

BY

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shears.

Printed on Special Dutch Handmade Paper, and
bound in Parchment.

Price Six Sh

L L I N G s.

REMINGTON <!v: CO.,
134, New Bond Street, London, W.

R iaobeh

IX THREE V L U 31 E S .

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shepard.

VOL. I.

Quae medicaments non savant, ferrum sant.
Quae ferrum non sant, ignis sant.

Hippocrates.

Lotion :

R E M I N G T O N A N D C O.,
New Bond Street, W.

1883.

[All Rights Reserved.

CONTENTS

:^-

«

>?

^

CHAP.

I. A Young Poet .
II. Money Matters

III. Charles goes " Down "

IV. " Only an Old Maid "

V. A Matrimonial Offer .

VI. Monstrous Treachery .

VII. Student Life at Leipsic

VIII. Euphrosyne de Bienaimee

IX. The Two Friends

X. Mrs. Pimmins' Lodger

XI. Dorothy to the Rescue

XII. An Old Acquaintance .

XIII. Euphrosyne de Bienaimee's Childhood

XIV. On Board the Steamship Fooricaarls
XV. A Recognition .

XVI. Discontent

XVII. Tasting the Lacrymal Christi .

XVIII. Rivals .

XIX. At the Villa Dresda

XX. Arnolfo di Caserta





















^

Chapter I.

Voting POET.

Oxford was full of life again ; the winter term
had again commenced , and freshmen and old
stagers were mixed np in a mass, where they were
not easily to be distinguished, except for the fact
that the freshmen looked the more well-dressed
and the less self-conscious. But we have neither
to do with freshmen nor old stagers, neither with
schools nor dons nor tradesmen, nor proctors, nor
any of those characters with whom the outsiders
are better acquainted than those who pass through
the University, from accounts of the life there,
beginning with the " Life and Adventures of
Verdant Green ^' down to the crude articles on
University life, which young Crookedshanks gives
to the light of day and to an admiring family circle
through the columns of the Bumbleshire Herald,
that celebrated county organ.

But alone in a room in St. Mary's College there
sat one young man, before whose bright eyes,

VOL. I. B

half-closed in ecstatic joy, there floated fairer
visions than all the vulgar world below could ever
bring forth; fairer and purer visions than the
snobbery of wealth, of pedigree, of coat or terrier,
of meerschaum or exuberance of foolish words
spoken at the Union , of all the follies of our young
men. 'Nor were they the pedantic gods or goddesses
that danced before him, but purer divinities,
soul begotten, whose white feet struck the marble
floor of his palace of art, his soul's lordly pleasure
ground, to the tune of a music which was his
own, music such as Swinburne alone has brought
down from realms higher than St. Cecilia could
command.

I have no insight into them, nor what they were
can I fashion forth, but of a surety it was no
ordinary joy that lit up those eyes, and glowed on
the furrowed forehead, nor were those ordinary
time-born melodies which the lips breathed forth,
while the long taper fingers struck the table to their
tune.

Yes ! Benson was a poet, in every sense and
thought; it was but a few weeks ago that he
began to write, dating from when this story
begins, yet there was in him much music, and
many emblems, suggested and inborn to delight
the world with.

Well, then, here sat, in this room of St. Mary's
College, Charles Hauberk Benson, doing nothing
and wanting nothing, save to be left alone and in
quiet, for all that poets of a later day find melody

in the voices of many wintered crows or of bleating
lambs. Benson vowed enmity to rooks and
lambs, whose cawing and bleating came in
between his dact^'ls and anapaests, spondees and
iambics, in a right ruthless manner.

On this Saturday night in particular, it being a
fine evening, the crows were lively enough, and
were gfivinof solos and choruses with much vigor.
From his reverie ujDstarted the poet, and, going to
the window, looked out and shook his fist at an old
rooster, who was welcoming his sooty brethren in
loud and dissonant monologues. Benson looked
out ; the trees were fast losing their leaves, and
falling leaves suggest sad and sweet fancies, so the
young man, leaning on his window-sill, gave
himself up once more to his day-dreams.

To him, thus musing, there entered another
young man, very different though, for Benson was
tall and pale, and had long black hair, which fell
down upon his shoulders, was sombrely clad, and
bore about him an air of refined melancholy, which
many of his contemporaries envied him and tried
to imitate.

His friend, or rather his acquaintance, was a
very different youth. He, too, was tall, but fat
and plump withal, and large enough to show two
of the squares in the broad check pattern that he
wore on his portly person. His eyes were close
together, which made him look like a mouse,
except when he looked rat-like, that is when he
looked vicious. He was very incapable, but rich,

and had only one idea — which, was beer. You
hardly had known him five minutes, when he
would bang his fist down on your table, and,
talking you by the buttonhole, would shout out,
"I may as well tell you at once, old fellow, Pm
chiefly in the beer and sugar way myself." His
father owned a brewery, his uncle grew sugar in
the States.

But, for all the malt that had sweated itself
into his brain, he had plenty of conceit. He knew
the power of money, for he was rich, and he also
knew and could appraise the value of talent, for he
lacked it and envied it. He would have given a
blank cheque to be supplied with an origin-al idea,
or a tun of his father's beer to the man who
would laugh at one of his witticisms. But he
took no steps to form his mind. All he cared for
was to have the name of a wit, or a clever fellow.
He would have even preferred to be considered
mad. He had absolutely no taste, but. catching
at the word " aesthete' and vaguely connecting
the words "high art" with sage-green wall
papers, he banished all other ornaments from his
room, save and except a bit of Morris's wall-paper,
framed and glazed. I forget — two peacock
feathers were on his mantelpiece.

Well ! enough of Mangles' character for the
present, we shall have enough of him as we go on.

Benson, who heard the door open, turned round,
and, seeing his visitor, stepped forward and said

Oh, it's you, Mangles. I am heartily glad you

have come, that old rook has been making me quite
melancholy."

Yes, I got your note," answered Mangles,
'^ and I've brought you the money, but don't try
it on again, for the tap's off. Those that haven't
got, mustn't want, that's all ! " and, so saying, he
laid a five-pound note on the table.

Benson had been desperately wanting to buy a
new and beautiful edition of Shelley, which had
just come out, and, pressed hard for money, had
written to his friend Mangles for a loan of five
pounds. Without heeding his friend's rudeness,
but only colouring slightly, Benson took the
money.

It was strange enough, this friendship between
these two young men, and stranger still that a
mind so refined as Benson's, and nerves so finely
strung as his, could bear this eternal jarring, those
coarse sounds, that vulgar demeanour, which were
all the manifestations of Mangles' presence. But
I have even seen more curious alliances than this.
I have seen a perfect Beau Brummell, a waxed and
scented and curled fop, clad in the height of
fashion, matchlessly gloved and booted, bubbling
over with endearing affection for a most hideous
bull-terrier, and never happy unless this Caliban
of the brute creation was trotting beside the
elegant heel of his well-shaped boot. Again, who
has not seen the most beautiful women, mated to
the veriest clowns, and keenly appreciative of male
beauty, never content to be far from their ugly

husbands ? Ah ! 'tis a foil we all want for imperfections
; we need an ugly setting to show off
our lustre.

It was thus that Benson cultivated the society of
Mangles, who, in his turn, found it pleasant to be
seen with the clever young man, who had wit and
talent enough for both, and Mangles, by constantly
being with Benson, borrowed, in some degree,
his light.

There was another, and a less agreeable connection
between the two lads, for Benson was
much in the brewer's debt, and could not choose
but be civil to him, on this account alone.
Mangles was very rich, and had a most substantial
account at the Oxford Old Bank, while poor
Benson, whose income was precarious, and never
fully assured, was always in a state of financial
want. The two hundred and fifty a year which
his guardian allowed him, came in very irregularly,
and through this slovenly treatment he
had been obliged to run into debt when the instalments
did not come, and when they did come,
new wants had arisen to swallow up the ready
cash. Not that there is any difficulty in making
debts at Oxford. The Oxford tradesman is the
most obliging of all persons, and his belief in the
integrity of human nature is quite refreshing to
contemplate. One has but to breathe a wish for
any article in his shop, and by the time one
reaches one's room, the coveted article has found
its way there, and — into the bill.

So, besides owing about two hundred pounds to
various tradesmen of the town, Benson stood indebted
to Mangles for a tolerable part of the same
sum.

A worse creditor than the brewers son it would
have been difficult to find. It was not unusual for
him to cry across the quad to his debtor to remind
him of the outstanding account, and in hall,
at dinner, to order some treble X. in Benson's
name, remarking that this would help to pay some
of the interest of the sum owing.

To a sensitive man like Benson, all this was
naturally very unpleasant, but what could he do?
He was in debt, and likely to remain so, and could
only soften his bondage by being civil to his creditor,
much as he inwardly disliked him.

On the day, however, on which this chapter opens.
Mangles was in a particularly bad and aggressive
humour, and, after Benson had taken up the five-pound
note, and locked it up in this secretaire, this
fine young gentleman thought good to say,

"" Stop a bit, my poetical friend, you must give
me a proper receipt for this, your letter won't do
as an acknowledgment, you know."

'^ What sort of acknowledgment do you want ? '*
returned Benson, quite civilly.

An I U with a stamp on it, or I mayn't get
a farthing back. I can't trust you very far, you
know."

To this Benson answered nothing, but leant out
of the window.

I can't trust sou," said Mangles, '^ this is the
fourth time this term that you have come begging
for money, and I see no chance of ever getting it
back."

'you shall see some of it back at once,"
answered Benson quietly, and rapidly unlocking
the drawer, he drew out the five-pound note and
tossed it contemptuously on the table. "There,
take it, I can do without it."

Well, I declare, quite the lord now," said
Mangles ; " he can toss the notes about as if he
ever bad one to spare in his life-time. Please,
Mr. Benson, while you are in this humour, go on
tossing. You may toss five-pound notes very often
before you have paid me. Oh, you won't answer
me. Well, I declare."

Finding Benson quite impervious to his biting
and polished sarcasm, the worthy brewer took up
the note, and, after having assured himself that
it was the same one he had brought, he took his
departure, so far with eclat as a door violently
slammed to can help to produce it.

Benson, left alone, turned from the window, and
after pacing restlessly up and down the room a
few times, threw himself into a chair and, hiding
bis face in his hands, began to weep bitterly.

Quite the lord's gasped he, " quite the lord,
did he say ? Aye, aye. Oh, father, father, father."

Up with your fans mesdames and demoiselles,
up with your hands, ye men of the world. Hide
your blushes, all of you. Let it be told at once.



Net not this young man be introduced to yon
under false pretences. He is, you know, the son
of nobody, the son of the people. It is true that
a noble earl had something to do with his paternity.
It is certain that every drop of his blood
is as blue as a hundred generations can make it.
It is true, lamentably true, pitiably true, that this
unhappy young man is an aristocrat in heart and
hand, in manner and feeling, in mind and body,
but all this you know, is an impertinence on his
part. Being nobody, he has of course no right to
have graces and airs which everywhere proclaim
him your superior, superior to you, ye excellent
men and citizens, ye moral sirs and dames, born
in wedlock the most lawful as yon are.

Poor fellow, of aU things created and living, he
alone is fatherless.

After the unpleasantness which had arisen
between the two friends, Benson, for a short time,
dropped the acquaintance of his creditor, and the
two frequently passed each other, one with cold
contempt, and the other with an air of offended
dignity, which sat but ludicrously upon him.

This sort of thing had gone on for a week or
two, when one afternoon Mangles walked into
Benson's room and said —

"Look here, Benson, 1 don't want to quarrel
with you. I may have been rude to you the other
day, but it isn't pleasant to have money owed one
and yet to be treated with the Jiautongba way with
which you treated me. If you will shake hands

A BARTERED Honore.

and apologize, I will do the same, and as I've got
mj dogcart waiting at the corner, I shall be very
glad if you will come with, me for a drive Abingdon
way."

Benson was by no means loth, to have an opportunity
of propitiating the brewer, for he had during
the time after the quarrel, had leisure to go into
his accounts, and had found with dismay that
these were most unsatisfactory. He therefore
gave his hand readily, and after a few words, the
ill-assorted pair were on their way to Abingdon ina
stylish dogcart, which bore emblazoned on it in
gigantic device and rainbow colours, the coat-of-arms
and escutcheon of the illustrious 
family.

To such humiliation of pride, to such sacrifices
of honour and self-respect do poverty and debt
drive men every day.

The reason that Mangles came round and
humbled himself to Benson may not appear at
first sight very clear. But it was a very simple
one, and was this. At breakfast on that morning
Mangles had found himself in company with some
Balliol men, who were discussing the merits of
various poems in the little brochure, called Waits
and Strays, a volume of miscellaneous poems published
each term at the 'Varsity, contributed to by
the gadfly-bitten sons of the Muses, and generally
as insipid a collection of human imbecility as it is
possible to conceive. But the number for that
particular term, in which these events took place.

was a better one than usual, and the Balliolites
were loud in their praises of Benson's poems.
True it is, one or two of the other men, aesthetically
inclined, gave a marked preference to some
triolets on " A Swooning Swan's Souls felt Elegy''
but the majority of the men present, whose opinions
were really of some value, being mostly men who
had taken a first-class in Moderations for Latin
and Greek, critically considered, and who were
therefore fully qualities to express an opinion on
an' mortal subject, gave Benson much praise.

Little by little, the conversation had turned
itself entirely upon the young poet, and all was in
his favour. His works, his prowess in the College
sports, his eloquent attack on the policy of the
Government, at the Union, were all held up as
excellent and worthy of admiration.

All this had, of course, a deep influence on
Mangles, who began to repent having quarrelled
with so distinguished and famous a member of
Oxford society, and he had inwardly resolved to
lose no time in making up his difference with
Benson, and to once more enjoy the distinction
of being seen in his company.

These, then, were the several motives which
impelled these two utterly different and unsympathetic
natures to renew an intercourse so rudely
broken off. Interest and self, self and interest —
and what other motives obtain so largely as therein
this world of ours ?

MONET MATTE R S.

What man is there that, after a long life, can
sap, '' I was never in any man's debt ? " If such
there be , go mark him well, for he is a sight worth
looking at, and a man worth talking to twice over.
Yes! and he is a man to be envied, and much
envied, for he has never suffered the hardest of
slavery, the most galling of penal servitude. There
won't be many furrows on that man's forehead,
and very few pain lines about his mouth, and his
eyes will meet yours fearlessly and defiantly. Debt,
debt is but a little word, but many are the stalwart
ba cks it has broken, many are the once happy
homes it has pulled to the ground, many, many
are the honourable names over which it has cast
an ineffaceable slur and reproach. And an insidious
villain is debt, which presents itself with winning
smiles and deep bows, and makes itself quite at
home with you, and at first is a most agreeable
companion, but once try to get rid of your guest,
no longer welcome, and you will find that the bland
and smiling friend has grown into a huge and
violent monster, who has fattened on your substance
and drained your best blood, and will not
leave you till your ruin is complete.

Benson was thoroughly and hopelessly in debt ;
hopelessly, because he had become reckless. Finding
himself unable ever to meet his liabilities, he
had gone on getting more and more involved.
Fresh books were added to his shelves every day,
which he would perhaps never open ; fresh articles
of furniture would be brought in each week
pictures Rnd portraits, china, knick-knacks and
ornaments were piled up on his tables and shelves
with reckless profuseness.

Clothes, too, he would buy, and ties and gloves
and hats enough for two men, and reproach himself
all the time for dishonesty, and by a curious
feature in his character, could never bring himself
to look on the things he had not paid for as his
own.

He used to say to himself that the few years
he had to spend at the University would probably
be the years of his life which he could enjoy the
most, and that he might as well benefit by the
present. Knowing that his income was assured
for life, he had proposed to pay off his debts after
he left Oxford, and to enjoy those years fully.
There was in him too a fatal pride, which was in
his after-life a strange plague to him, knowing
what blood was in his veins, and knowing the
proud name of his father, whom he might never
claim, he felt urged to display. He saw men who
never knew their grandsires' names, sons of men
who had risen but the yesterday, by mercantile
speculation, by trades of all kinds, lavish in

grandeur and exhibition of countless wealth,
dirtily amassed, as he thought, and he felt, oh,
too wrongly, that he was obliged to keep pace
with them.

Shall tradesmen and hawkers outvie a Hauberk
? Shall the sons of quacks and charlatans
dress better and live better than I ? '^ he used to
say to himself, when his conscience reproached
him for some new useless extravagance.

The tailors were his great creditors , and I think
they suffer most, and cause the most suffering
from the bad system of unlimited credit which
prevails at the University. They are the most
pressing of the Oxford tradesmen.

On the morning after his drive to Abingdon,
Benson was standing at his glass, shaving, when
he heard a knock at his door, and having granted
entrance, a small, withered man, of a decidedly
Hebraic type, made his appearance, and with
many bows, asked if he had the extreme " pleasure ^'
of seeing Mr. Benson before him.

Benson, who, at first sight, had taken the
stranger for a money-lender, answered in the
affirmative, and bade him mention his business at
once, with rather a rough accent.

0, slur ! 0, slur! " said the little man, producing
yards of a tape, a book of patterns and a
note-book, ''I am one German tailor from London,
one Mester Meyer of ze Bon Street, and I have
come to ask you, slur, if it be that you wants a
beautiful shute of clothes. I make ze clothes of

most of ze gentlemen of sees college and I
should have one very great pleasure in making ze
clothes of a gentleman vis such a signore as
j-ours. "

I have not," answered Benson, ^^ the pleasure
of knowing you at all. How came you to hear of
me ? ''

Hear of you, slur ! " cried the little man,
*' hear of you, slur ! Who have not heard of
you ? I speak to ze tradesmen of ze town, and he
say, ' Have you not been to Master Benson of
San Mari College ze reach Mr. Benson ? ' and so
I come here, at once to have your very good name
on my books."

Before Benson very well knew what he was
about, the little German had enveloped him in
yards of tape, in which he appeared like a second
Laocoon, struggling for his liberty, and was busy
in taking the various measures ; he then produced
a fashion-book, and knew so well by flatters and
insinuation, how to manage the vain young man,
that in another five minutes he had procured the
order, and departed in triumph to make fresh
conquests.

'' Phew ! " said Benson, as the door shut after
the tailor, "there's enterprise for you; but if he
finds me slow in paying he has but himself to
thank. He deserves not to be paid at all." And
so I say also.

After Benson had finished his toilet, and ordered
a somewhat sumptuous breakfast, he sat down by

the window to read his letters which his scout had
brought in. The first two, being enclosed in
blue thousand-for-half-a-crown envelopes, he laid
aside, knowing them to be bills, the next was a
letter bearing the Devizes post-mark, at which
town his guardian lived. He opened this letter
rapidly and read : —

"Norton Grange, Devizes.
"My Dear Charles, —

In answer to your last letter I write
at once to forward you the twenty pounds you ask
for, but I warn you earnestly to be as careful as
possible, as your affairs are by no means satisfactory.
I sincerely trust that you are working
steadily, and will take a good place in the forthcoming
Honour Mods. It is most important that
you should qualify yourself for employment hereafter,
as affairs may take a bad turn, and you maybe
thrown some day on your own resources. There
is, of course, no immediate prospect of this, but
you should be prepared for any contingency.

Charlotte and the children send their love, and
I remain, with hearty good wishes,

Your affectionate guardian,

"John Elphinstonr."

*' I wonder what he means," said Benson,
puzzled, ^' this is the second time this term that
he has written thus. I thought my income was a
settled one, and that I was to have it for my life
I suppose, after all, he only wishes to frighten me

into economy. Perhaps I had better be more
careful."

Strengthened with this good resolution, Benson
went out but soon forgot it, and, passing a
tobacconist's on the High, strolled in, and,
going in to buy a box of lights, was prevailed
upon by the tobacconist to purchase a box of
Havana, at three guineas the hundred.

There was at that time in Oxford a certain
tailor in business, who by his notorious dealings
had earned for himself the soubriquet of The
Spider. Spider Harrison was well-named; never
was there a man who could so wheedle orders out
of young and innocent freshmen; never was there
a tradesman who so stoutly refused ready money ;
but never, too, was there a man who charged such
high prices, or a tradesman who so bitterly pursued
his debtors when they owed him a sufficiently
large sum. Now on that self-same morning,
when Benson had received the visit from tailor
Meyer, Spider Harrison, who had been round to
St. Mary's to spin fresh nets for a few new and
silly flies, was hanging about the passage on the
floor on which Benson's rooms were, and saw the
German come out. Spider Harrison noted this,
and when he got back round into the town he
went about to different shops, and made certain
inquiries, with the result that when he got back
to his shop in the town he called for his portly
ledger, and turning over the B leaves began to
make up Mr. Benson's account, and, having had

VOL. I. G

it fairly written out, walked round to St. Mary's
College again, and going to Benson's rooms
knocked and walked in.

He found the unhappy youth in, enjoying one of
the cigars he had purchased, and, making a deep
bow, presented his bill, and said in a mild and
gentle voice —

"I have taken the liberty, sir, to bring you my
bill, and should like a cheque for the same at once.
A large cloth factor in Yorkshire having pressed
me for his money, I am obliged to ask you for a
settlement, much as I regret having to do so.^'

Benson took the bill, and, looking at the total,
was horrified to find that the small items had, bit
by bit, tittle by tittle, amounted to the large total
of forty-eight pounds seventeen and sixpence.
Having seen this, he glanced confusedly at the
tailor, who, however, appeared totally taken up
with a picture of the Good Samaritan which hung
over the mantel-piece.

How different it is to answer a request made one
face to face and through letter, how mute we are
in the first place and how eloquently we can refuse
when we only address the person on paper. Spider
Harrison had known this, and had determined to
see his debtor and bully the money out of him.
Benson, who was in great confusion, rose and went
to his desk, and sat down with the bill in his hand
and took up a pen helplessly. What was he todo
? At last he said —

^'This is a most strange proceeding, Mr.

Garrison ; what can sou mean bj bringing your
bill here in this manner ? I am, of course, totally
unprepared for it."

If you would kindly write me a cheque for the
full amount, sirs' said Harrison, '^T should be
obliged."

I have no cheque-book," stammered poor
Benson, " and no bank to draw cheques upon ; my
;allowance comes in in money every month."

Money even more acceptable than cheque,"
said the Spider.

As I said before, I am totally unprepared for
this j I did not expect this bill at all. I thought
you never sent your bills in for a year at the earliest.
If I had thought otherwise I should never have
come to your shop, where you certainly charge 30
per cent, higher than the London tradesmen. Will
you explain yourself ? "

Explain myself sir, yes sir. Without referring
to the 30 per cent, higher prices, which a
gentleman always likes to pay a good price for a
good article, and Lord Robson comes to my shop
regular, and the first of the nobility he is, and
always contented, besides being the brother of the
Earl of Graitpride. I mean to say that I am very
happy to have the names of gentlemen on my book,
if so be as gentlemen comes to me for their things
and doesn't wander from shop to shop."

I do not understand you," said Benson.

"Well," rejoined the Spider, "the fact is, I
Jjnow you deal with four tailors in this town, and

with Meyer in London, and if yon have suited
yourself better with them I canst help it, but I
want my money, and then you may go to what
tailors as you please. I know for certain as you
have a bill at Sweeps', and Lavingblokes's, at
Price's, and at Swindles', besides at Meyer's ! "

"I do not see," said Benson again, "that this
has anything to do with you ; and if you have
been making inquiries about me, upon my word,
I consider it highly impertinent. You may leave
your bill here, and I will call and pay it ; and,
mind you, I withdraw my custom from you forever."


The Spider, without appearing crushed by this
threat, made as jaunty and defiant a bow as he
dared, and walked out of the room.

Thus Benson was already tasting the friuts of
his thoughtlessness, but the worst had yet to
come.

By an evening's post in the next week after the
Spider's visit, he received another letter from
Devizes, but not in his guardian's hand. It was
a hand which he had not often seen, but nevertheless
recognised as the writing of Mrs. Edmonstone,
the Charlotte to whom reference had been made in
the morning's letter. Thinking it only a troublesome
letter, a pile of advice and home-truths, he
did not open it at once, but left it lying on his
table till he returned from the Union, it being debate
night.

He was to open the debate that night, and consequently

had to stay till it closed to answer his
opponents and substantiate his statements, and he
consequently did not get back till eleven.

But, although his friends said that he had never
spoken better in his life, and though he met with
unbounded applause , and carried his motion by an
overwhelming majority, he felt nervous and distrait
the whole time till he got home, and the letter
lay like lead upon his mind. When he finally
reached his room he found another letter on his
table, which he opened first and which ran as
follows : —

'oxford,
To Charles H. Benson, Esq.
Sir,

"Acting on instructions from our esteemed
client, Mr. George Harrison, tailor, of this
town, we regret to have to enclose you a summons
to appear before the Vice-Chancellor's court,
on Wednesday next, with reference to bill of
£49 Os. 6d.

We are, sir, your obedient servants,
Ferguson and Walker,

'' Solicitors.

Amount of bill £48 17 6

Charge for this letter 3

£4.9 6"

Without paying much attention to this letter,
Benson tore Mrs. Elphinstone's letter open, and
found its contents to be as follows : —

Norton Grange,

Devizes.

'' My dearest Charles,

I cannot tell you how distressed I am
to have to tell you the horrible news which my
husband has requested me to acquaint you with.
For a long time I have noticed a great recklessness
in his way of livings and have known,
without being able to check it, that we have been
living very far ahead of our income. I feared my
husband's temper too much to make any remark
to him on the subject, but endeavoured to reduce
the household expenses as much as possible. But,
at last, matters had reached a climax, and being
pressed on all sides by creditors, he has had to
place his affairs into the Bankruptcy Court. !Nor
is this all. Last night he called me into his study
and, with tears in his eyes, told me that he had
not only wasted all our property, but that he had
made use of the sum left in trust for you for certain
speculations, by which he hoped to retrieve
his own squandered fortune.

The speculations, which appear to have been
of the wildest nature, have lamentably failed, and
there is not a penny left for you.

^' My dear, poor boy, how can I pray you to forgive
us for ruining you ? What can I say, or do
to soften this terrible blow ? "

But Benson could read no more, for he had
fainted.

Charles GOES " Down."

"Who has not experienced how widely different
an aspect we take of a plan or an action in the
evenings and the next morning ? How enthusiastically
we go to bed, and how self-derisively we
get up. How, when we pulled our night-caps
over our ears, what deep and clever plans they
seemed to cover, and how, when we pulled them
off, we seemed to cast the bright visions into the
corner with them. Again, who has not felt that
morning brings repentance, remorse, and self-reproach,
and that, what the evening before condoned,
the fresh, unsophisticated morning holds
up in the worst light, and that the shallow excuses
we proposed to oui-selves vanish before the light
of day as if ashamed of its brightness ? And also,
with sorrow and affliction, how heavily they hang
upon us in our waking moments, and the nglj
nightmare that has made our sleep restless, and
haunted us the weary night throughout, does not
leave us, like other evil dreams, as soon as we open
our weary, unrefreshed eyelids but gathers strength
and personifies itself into a horrible reality. The
malefactor, the felon doomed to pay with his life
the forfeit of cruel deeds, can never feel the horrors
of his position as strongly as when he wakes and

first remembers what lie has done, where he is,
and what is before him. Men who, on the previous
evening, have stoutly denied their guilt, have
the next morning poured forth their bitter confessions,
under the painful and absolute feeling of
utter weakness.

To Benson, when he awoke on the following
morning, life seemed to hold out but bitter prospects.
Ruin, poverty, and degradation, partly
brought about by the cruel fault of others and
partly by his own folly, seemed to lie before him.
Restless dreamer that he knew himself to be, he
feared to grapple with life, like so many young
men have been forced to do ; he dreaded the
hard grinding work, the struggle for existence
-which he saw coming upon him. Accustomed to
look to an easy independence, he had intended to
lead a roving Bohemian life, to be an idle son of
the Muses, and to pass away a golden youth by
the sunny seaboard of Southern Spain, or amid
the looping vines on the Italian hills, seeking the
old world amid the new, and devoting himself to
the art he loved best, the art he loved beyond life,
to poetry and music. And now this bright future
had suddenly been dashed away, as the rosy-tinted
clouds of a summer sky are ruthlessly driven off by
a rough pitiless wind, and the prospect that was
left appeared cold and grey, wretched and despairing.
Indolent and self-indulgent as he had been,
and nursing a fatal pride, he felt utterly unprepared
to cope with his fate, and at first lay as if

completely stricken down, and sick at heart. But
morning, which brings us the consciousness of
our weakness, also brings us fresh strength ; and
Benson, as soon as he was up, began to consider
what was the best thing to do, what steps for the
immediate present should be taken, for into the
future he dared not, in his weakness, look.

At breakfast, which, in his feeling of humiliation,
bj a strange perverseness, he ordered as
luxuriously as the Common Room could supply, he
received another letter from Norton Grange, from
Ms guardian himself, confirming the bad news,
and holding out to the unhappy young man no
hopes of any recovery, even in part, of the
squandered fortune. The lines of moderate comfort
in the letter were, after profuse apologies and
expressions of regret, the following : —

"T assure you, however, my poor boy, that I
shall use my best endeavours to work for us all,
and that I sincerely hope and trust, in future
years, to be able to repay what my unfortunate
folly has robbed you of.^'

"A pretty consolations said Benson, as he
dashed the letter contemptuously aside, " a pretty
promise to pay. How will he, with his wife and
six children, ever get enough to live on ? How
can he amass a fortune of six thousand pounds,
and, even if he did, would he part with it ? Bah ! "

After writing a few letters, one of bitter reproach
to Mr. Elphinstone, and a note to Spider Harrison,

begging for an interview, he went straight to the
Warden of his college.

He was admitted at once, and found the Rev.
Samuel Dobbs hard at work in his philological
garden, grubbing at Greek roots with a most
intense ardour.

After a few preliminary remarks, Benson said,
I wish to leave Oxford, sir ; I wish to go down
at once."

"Indeed, Mr. Benson," said the Rev. Samuel
Dobbs, nervously turning over the leaves of an
enormous dictionary, and peering over it as if he
felt safely intrenched there, and there only ; " indeed,
and pray why 9 "

I have no longer any right to be here. I hear
to-day that my affairs have had a collapse, and I
should only be staying here on false pretences.'^

He then proceeded to tell the learned and reverend
doctor of the letters he had received, and
stated that, as the term was soon over, he should
wish to leave, and see what he could do for himself,
and try and get his affairs into order.

But out of the region of Greek roots the Rev.
Samuel Dobbs possessed very little general intelligence,
and Benson was obliged to repeat his doleful
story more than once before the doctor
appeared to understand the slightest detail of it.
At last, taking another refreshing plunge into the
lexicon, he looked up and said —

'rand are — you — sure — Mr. Benson — that —
this is your only reason for wishing to take this

very precipitous — step ? Have — you — not — 
— unfortunate — debts, and are
driven from the University on that account ?

My reasons, sir,'^ stammered Benson, who
knew quite well that his debts, and especially the
action of The Spider, were a very important
reason for departing; "my reasons, sir, for asking
your permission to go down are those I have
stated."

Apart from his having given almost the whole
of his life to the study of Greek, it was hardly
fair to expect the Rev. Samuel Dobbs, Mea., to
readily understand the meaning of distress, or to
look for much sympathy from him. Drawing an
income of £5,000 a year from the College, fattening
on the perquisites which fell to his share,
always in the society of wealthy men, he knew
but little of poverty, and did not wish to annoy
himself by contemplating so ragged and uncomfortable
a thing. There might be such a thing,
just as there might be a way of squaring the
circle, but as long as there were Greek roots to
investigate, and delicious old port wine to drink,
you were not going to catch the Rev. Samuel
Dobbs contemplating any such a thing as ragged
misery. Oh, dear me, no. But still it did dawn
on him that this young man was assisted and
needed consolation and advice, but it was annoying
just as he had hunted the preposition 'pros''
into a perfect corner, and had thrown off his
coat, and was just going to force it to confess its

parentage and own its Sanscrit descent, to be
interrupted and bothered by a young man who
talked about his '' unfortunate financial affairs ; "
so, after casting about for some consolatory
maxim out of the Greek tragedians, but finding
none, and remembering no quotation but a most
inappropriate witticism from Aristophanes about
ragged suitors, he dived once more into his book,
shook himself mentally and morally, and told
Benson to go to his tutor, explain his affairs, and
say that the Warden left the ultimate decision
to him.

Benson departed, and didn't the Warden just
pitch into that preposition after he had gone. Not
exactly, rather not.

Benson's tutor, the Rev. and Hon. Josiah Delamere,
was younger, and knew more about the world
and its affairs than the "Warden, and readily gave
Benson permission to go down, but refused to let
the young man take his name off the books of the
College ; as who knew what might happen to
enable him to continue his studies at St. Mary's ;
and added such sound advice as could be reasonably
expected in return for the various ten-pound
notes, which term after term he had received from
Benson for doing nothing at all except keeping
his eye upon him, and granting hai permission
occasionally to go down to Tendon, which is all
that College tutors ever do, or can be expected todo
for the money.

When Benson returned to his rooms, he found a

friend there, whom he liked best of all his 'Varsity
friends. His name was George Douglas, and he
was a scion of the celebrated Douglas family, and
related to the noble Catherine of that ilk, who
earned for herself the name of Kate Bar-lass, by
thrusting her tender arm into the socket of the
broken bolt, to keep the door closed a little longer
and give her king time to escape. George Douglas
was naturally very proud of his family and their
descent, but was nevertheless a very agreeable
companion. To him alone had Benson confided
the painful secret of his birth, and Douglas, who
had by no means strictly orthodox views on all
social questions, had consoled him to the best of
his power, and a most intimate friendship had
sprung up between the two young men.

As soon as Benson saw the young Scotchman he
stepped forward eagerly, and, shaking his hand
warmly, said, '^My dear Douglas, you are the
very man I wanted to see. I have so much to tell
you, and so much advice to ask of you."

He then told Douglas the whole story, of his
guardian's failure, of the suit brought against him
by The Spider, and of his utter inability to meet
any longer the expenses of the University. He
frankly confessed all his debts, and told him that,
apart from the change of a twenty-pound note,
the thirty pounds caution-money deposited with
the College authorities, and the value of his
furniture, he possessed absolutely nothing to goon
with, and that his debts were four times as

nmcli. He added that he had determined to go
down at once, and had obtained permission to do
so, and begged the young Scotchman to help him
in getting away.

And Douglas helped him nobly, and like a real
friend. First he helped him to pack, and advised
him to take away with him all the portraits of
actresses, &c., which he possessed.

Foresaid he, " you mustn't leave anything
behind which will discredit you with the dons."

Then he stowed away a good many portable
things in his room, and lent Benson a large box
to carry away some of the things with him ; and,
in fact, did all he could for him.

It was nearly night before they had finished
their preparations, and Benson determined to go
down next morning by the first train. He had
made up his mind to go to Keswick, where he had
a very dear and kind friend, a Miss Dorothy
Crosthwaite, an elderly spinster, who had known
him at school and took an interest in him for
himself. She had often invited him to come and
stay with her, but he had never been able to pay her
other than very flying visits. Having determined
to favour her with his company, he thought it right
to apprise her thereof, and, going to the Post
Office, he telegraphed to her as follows ; —

Charles Benson, " Miss Crosthwaite,

Oxford. " Keswick.

*^ To avoid serious trouble I am leaving Oxford,
May I come to you at once for a short time ? "

He soon got an answer ; which ran : —

'bear Boy — Always welcome to Dorothy ^

That being settled, he had only to wait the
mornings and get away quietly. He had packed
all his clothes , and as many books and miscellaneous
articles as he could contrive to take away.
His crockery, books, and pictures he left, the
former in his cupboards and the pictures
stowed away in Douglas's rooms. He did this
because he feared The Spider might lay hands
on them and carry them away in part settlement
of his claim, and, as hardly anything in his
rooms was paid for he wished the things to
go back, after his departure, to their owners.
He spent the rest of the evening in going
round to the rooms of different friends and telling
them he was leaving, but saying as little about
the reason as possible. He found Mangles in
such a state of intoxication that it was impossible
to make him understand for a long time, and when
this was accomplished the brewer fell round his
neck and wept copiously, saying —

Goo-bye, old flesh, chiefly beersugarline
myself ; goo-bye, writes to old Mangles,
remit balances due, and Gorbleshyer ! "

Benson returned to his rooms, and, bidding his
scout wake him early, went to bed.

Morning soon came, and Benson, getting up,
completed his packing. Whilst he was standing
in the middle of the room, dolefully contemplating

its dismantled appearance and rueful at the-thought
of leaving it, he heard a smart knock at
the door, and his servant announced to him, to his
dismay, that the young man from Harrison's was
there and wished to speak to him. Benson went
out into the passage and, closing the door, asked
the man rather roughly what he wanted. The
man, who was an assistant at Harrison's, and
who had formerly been most subservient and polite
to Benson, answered with as little respect and with
as much insolence as he dared —

You wrote yesterday to Mr. Harrison about an
interview. Mr. Harrison has no time for interviews
with you. He wants his money, and sharp,
and he means for to get it."

"Well," answered Benson, "you go and tell
Mr. Harrison that he has driven me away from the
University, and that I can only pay him by doing
so and getting my caution-money out. I am off
this morning, and you be off too."

Thank you, sir," said the man ; " good-morning,
sir," and departed at full speed.

The porter from the railway having come,
Benson superintended the loading of his effects,
and, seeing them put into a cab, told the driver to
go to the L.N.W. Station, and see the things
labelled for Keswick. Then after tipping the
college servants as liberally as he could, he departed
with his friend Douglas.

He preferred to walk, as he wished to fetch a

terrier of his, which was boarded out with a livery
stable-keeper.

Having got his dog, the two friends walked onto
the station J and just as they approached it they
saw ahead of them the cab with Benson's property,
and walking swiftly behind it the assistant from
Harrison's.

When the cab stopped at the station, the man
spoke to the driver, who, however, appeared to
take no heed of him but delivered the luggage to
a porter. He was also addressed by the assistant,
who appeared to wish to detain the luggage, but
the porter paid him no attention, and it was safely
deposited in the van of the train.

Benson then took his ticket, a third-class single
to Keswick, and got into the train.

He was talking to Douglas, when he heard the
assistant from Harrison's go up to the stationmaster
and say : " There's a young man in the
train running off with a lot of property, couldn't
you stop the train for a minute or two, until Mr.
Harrison comes up ? He is going to stop him.-"

Before the station-master could answer, the
worthy Harrison came rushing on to the platform,
and dashing up to the carriage in which Benson
sat, seized him roughly by the arm, and shouted —

Give me that coat, it's my property, you d d

thief, give me that coat."

Benson, although wildly indignant at this insult,
had sufficient sense to see that The Spiders reason

VOL. I. D

in doing this was to get him to strike him, and
thus have a reason for detaining him, pushed his
hand off and said —

The coat will be paid for with the other things.
Your own insolent behaviour has driven me to do
this. There is my caution-money."

"Your caution-money," sneered The Spider,
with a most villanous face. "What's thirty
pound again three hundred ; there's that poor man
in the Broad you owe thirteen pounds to, and
you're robbing him. I don't mind myself. I can
afford to be cheated. Yes, and I would have given
you a sov. or two, if you had asked me, to get
back with."

"Here, enough of this insolence," said Douglas,
putting himself before the tailor, and closing the
carriage door ; " stand off, I'm no customer of
yours."

No, sir," said The Spider, " I only wish you
were. Oh, if I had been but a minute sooner, I'd
have stopped the things at the College, I would."

He then stepped aside, and entered into conversation
with a porpoise-like corn-dealer, and bade
him watch Benson at Bletchley and see where he
was bound for. The porpoise assented, and remarked
that he ought to have brought a policeman
with him.

A little man, who was sitting in an adjoining
first-class carriage, and had been an indignant
witness of the ruffianly tailor's insolence, put his
head out of the window, and shouted to Benson:

^' Never mind, sir, leave him to me ; he called

you a d d thief, and assaulted you. There are

two and more witnesses, assault and slander,
scandalum magnatum. We'll have him up, we'll
sue him for damages and costs ; there's my card,
sir, catch hold. Bennett, of Lincoln's Inn,
barrister-at-law. Know the scoundrel well.
Cheated me at Oxford. Spider Harrison, eh ?
Settle old score with him ? '^

The crowd, which had witnessed the whole scene
in great glee, broke up as the train slowly steamed
out of the station.

Benson, who had till then felt crushed in the
overwhelming shame of his position, buried his
face in his hands, and sobbed as he said —

'^' And thus, father, your son, a Hauberk, leaves
the Universities

Miss Dorothy Crosthwaite was one of those rare
out-of'the-common characters which are so very
seldom met with being more represented in standard
fiction than in reality. But nowhere either
in fiction or reality could so original and yet
lovable a character be found as hers.

She was a short, slight, little woman, who,
although past sixty, had wonderfully preserved a
freshness of mind and body, which spoke of a well-spent
life, temperately and sensibly used. The
daughter of rather an angry father, a retired
Indian officer, she had experienced a rather rough
bringing-up. Her mother had died in her infancy,
and her father but slightly understood the management
of his family, which, besides Dorothy,
consisted of another girl, and two sons. The two
sons had left the parental roof as soon as they were
qualified for their professions, and " the girls " as
General Crosthwaite called his daughters even
after they had both passed the grand climacteric,
remained single until the death of their father,
who bequeathed them his blessing and an additional
legacy of twenty thousand pounds apiece.
Sabine, the younger sister, who preferred town-life

to a country one , removed to London, while
Dorothy determined to settle in Keswick, near her
old home and among her old people. Simpleminded
and gentle as she was constituted by
nature, she could not bear the idea of keeping
house for herself, and so put herself and her possessions
into a very respectable lodging-house
keeper's hands, and devoted her life to good works.
By good fortune and laudable discretion on the
part of the General, the trustees chosen to
administer his will were good sterling men, who
did their work and settled Miss Crosthwaite's affairs
honourably, and in the best way, so that the little
woman, who had up till then been kept very short
by her prudent father, and had been forced to
provide herself with clothes, books, stamps, paper,
and pocket-money out of a yearly allowance of
twenty guineas , found herself suddenly in possession
of more than a thousand pounds a year for
her own private use.

The General had left no money to any of his
poorer relations, and, with the exception of a few
legacies to old servants, the forty thousand pounds
represented his whole fortune. The poor cousins,
sisters and aunts, were of course loud in reproach
at what they called his unkindness, but not long,
for little Dorothy soon wrote to the most needy
among them, saying that of course the General
had not taken the trouble to enter provisions for
them in his will, and had not done so because he
trusted in his daughters, and she showed that his

trust was not misplaced by the offer of sundry substantial
annuities.

A thousand a year is much too much for one
little woman," she used to say '' and yet I wish,
oh ! so greedily, that I had three times as much
to spend. So much misery abroad, so many poor
clergymen wanting churches built, so many
churches wanting curates, so many poor relations
who want schooling, and something must come out
of the little woman's purse for each and all, and
one's purse must end somewhere, and many must
be disappointed."

But not many who had real claims on her generosity
and were in want, had much reason to be
disappointed with her charity, or her mode of
distributing it. At a high computation, it is certain
that she did not spend one fourth of her
income on herself, while the rest went to the sick
and needy.

So much at present about her history and character.
As before mentioned, she was a small,
slight woman, who carried her age off very well.
Her hair was thick and black, though streaks of
grey asserted themselves here and there, and she
usually combed it down the middle, and smoothed
it down scrupulously, and wore a little white cap
trimmed with blue on her head. She couldn't bear
dizziness " about the hair, as ladies wear it nowadays,
couldn't Dorothy. She was always dressed
plainly in woollen stuff dresses, which she called
her " gowns' for she did not adapt herself to the



modem fashion of giving grand names to thing's,
and was a Conservative in this as in all things.
Add to this a clear, fresh-looking face, with a pair
of intelligent bine eves, looking: ont from behind a
pair of spectacles, an occasional pretty smile
breaking on the firm mouth, and yon will have
before yon as complete a picture of Miss Dorothy
Crosthwaite. as it is possible for a pen to give
you.

On the evening of the same day when Benson
left Oxford, under the circumstances detailed in
the last chapter, Dorothy was sitting at tea in her
cosy little parlour. The kettle was singing beside
the bright clear fire, the tea was drawing in the
polished silver teapot, the toast was as brown and
appetising as toast can possibly be expected to bethe
butter looked as yellow and fresh as the dewy
cowslips on a summer bank, and all the means of
quiet enjoyment were there. But Dorothy was
not happy. She was talking loud to herself, and
this is what she was saying —

Things are not as they should be. There's
Charlie, now, my bright-eyed boy; what is the
matter with him ? What is the meaning of that
telegram, I wonder, which I received last night ?
"Why is he leaving the University ? What can the
serious trouble be? Charlie, Charlie, pet, you
have been getting into difficulties, I thought you
would ; you know I told you so. Poetry isn't
business, and you are too thoughtless, my child,
too, too thoughtless, and a Kettle uncontrolled no

A BARTERED HONOUR.

father, no mother, only a rough guardian. Well,
Dorothy knows something about bringing up, and
T believe, when I hear all about it, you will show
that this serious trouble, whatever its Precious
Highness may be, is not all your own fault, dear
boy."

The kettle, the tea, the toast, and the fresh
butter which had waited for their opportunity till
then, put a stop to this soliloquy, for Dorothy was
hungry.

Tea was hardly over, however, when she heard
a timid knock at the door, and in another minute
Benson was in the room, holding out his hand.

"Stuff, boy,^^ cried Miss Crosthwaite, "put
your hand away, ain't I old enough to be your
great grandmother? Bend your face a little
lower down," and, standing on tip-toe, for she
tuas small, she kissed the weary young man on the
cheek.

Then first seeing him seated by the fire, she
bustled about the house to see his things brought
into the room which had been prepared for his reception,
and when all this was done to her
satisfaction, she went into the room, and drawing
a little stool up to his seat, put her hand on his,
and said very gently —

Tell me all about it''

And Benson, truthfully and manfully, told her
all the whole painful truth, nor did he conceal
how far his own foolish recklessness had involved
him. The only detail he did not fully enter upon

Twas that about thedisgracefaltailor at the station,
but he finished his story with the remark that a
Hauberk had never before been subjected to treatment
such as he had received.

But here !Miss Dorothy interrupted him, and
sharply with —

'' Nonsense, that about a Hauberk, you're not a
Hauberk, you know, they died out with Lord
Brookshire— don't talk stuff."

I beg your pardon. Miss Crosthwaite, there
are Hauberks, there is Lord Hauberk for instance."


'' Bother Hauberks," put in the little old lady,
let us talk of something more to the point."

This was namely a point on which the two
friends never could agree, for Miss Crosthwaite
recognized the fatal pride on this subject in her
young friend, and tried to check it in her rough
and ready fashion.

Benson was offended, and did not speak for a
minute or two, during which pause and after
Dorothy's "you're not a Hauberk," he had
serious thoughts of rushing out of the room, for
lie was an impulsive young man, and rather
irritably disposed by the events of the day, the
fatiguing journey, and his own dubious prospects
which had been troubling his mind the whole way
down, but he controlled himself wisely, and said
nothing.

Dorothy saw the effect she had produced, but
being hard-hearted enough on some social questions,

stern and merciless against what was wrong,
she would never flatter or feed a false pride, but
she could soothe — and who better? — a wounded
soul, and so patting the hand which Benson had
hastily drawn away, she said — ■

^' Well, this is the stores, dear, and very sorry I
am for it, indeed. We must talk about what is to
be done tomorrow, for my boy is tired and angry
now, and no wonder. But he shall stay with
Dorothy until something is settled, any how. And
now, Charles, down on your knees with me, and
let us seek for the truth where alone it is to be
found," and the impulsive little woman dragged
him off his chair on to his knees beside her.

After supper, and a little more conversation,
Dorothy sent Benson to bed, and, after looking
carefully into her banking pass-book, with many
significant smiles and nods she went to bed also.

Benson, who was very tired, was glad to get to
rest, and while he was preparing for the night, and
emptying his pockets of their contents — a custom
by the way which he had acquired at Oxford, as
the substances are supposed to crease the cloth,,
and spoil the outlines of the clothes — he came
across a card, which he recognised as that which
the excitable little barrister had given him that
morning. He then saw, for the first time, that
there was some writing on it, and holding it up to
the light, read — " I know you, and knew your
father, and shall be glad to help his son at anytime.
Mind you remember this. G. B."

How true' cried Benson, " is the old German
proverb, which says that when need is greatest
God is nearest. Misery has fallen on me, but I
have found two good friends to help and counsel
me in my trouble'

He then fell asleep, and dreamed amongst
other things, that Dorothy Crosthwaite, spinster
of Keswick, was united in holy matrimony to
George Bennett, barrister-at-law, of Lincoln Inn,
London, and that he was the adopted son of the
happy couple, and then he turned over in his sleep
and found himself fighting a desperate hand-to-hand
encounter with Harrison, master-tailor of
the city of Oxford, surnamed '' The Spider."

Dorothy, before going to sleep, had pulled her
Shakespeare out of a drawer. ''I wonder where
it is ? " said she, " that about ' Nature,' and 'my
young boy,' for he is my boy." At last she found
it, and resolved that the aspect of intercession
should not appeal in vain to her own tender heart.

Guard her and protect her, ye guardian angels ;
what though it is said that ye only hold vigil
round the beds of tender babes. No tenderer
heart, of more child-like simplicity, will ye find in
all the broad land. Guard her, watch over her,
and bless her, for she is worthy of it.

The next day passed quietly enough, for Miss
Crosthwaite had determined to let the young
Oxonian rest a little and calm himself, before
again reverting to the vexed question of what he
was to do, and Charles was glad to defer the discussion

until he might have something to suggest.
So between reading and walking with Dorothy,
and a row on the lake, the day was spent as pleasantly
as was possible for him in his agitated state
of mind.

But on the morning of the second day after his
arrival at Keswick, he received a very unpleasant
batch of letters. The first one was from the Ev.
Samuel Dobbs himself, and ran as follows : —

St. Mary's College, Oxon.
Sir,

Your conduct in obtaining my permission
to leave Oxford by perfectly false representations,
and the revelations subsequent to your
departure, are so disgraceful, that the College has
decided to remove your name from its books, you
may therefore consider yourself expelled.

(Signed) " Samuel Dobbs,

"josiah Delamere.
'' C. H. Benson, Esq."

With that impulsiveness which marked Benson
every action, and in his anger at this additional
disgrace, he dashed the letter back into its envelope,
and writing on it the words, " Impertinent
and unnecessary," sent it back to Oxford in an
envelope, addressed thus —

'^ Samuel Dobbs,
Josiah Delamere,

St. Mary's College, Oxford'

It was refreshing for the poor young man to
turn from this unpleasant correspondence to the
letter of his friend Douglas which was as nice
and sympathetic an expression of friendship as he
could desire, but which also contained bad news,
for from it he learned that as soon as his departure
had become known, all the tradesmen to whom he
owed money had rushed to the college, nearly
driven the Warden wild with their complaints,
stamped into his room, and were laying hands on
whatever portable property remained there, with
the intention of carrying it ofi", when his scout
William had interfered, and had sworn to do
personal violence to whoever should touch his late
masters property ; how these men had then left
his rooms before the gallant William, but had
made the quadrangle hideous with their cries and
complaints, oaths and railings ; how the news had
got about the college, and what exaggerated and,
of course, malicious stories were going the round.

To poor Benson, who was highly sensitive, all
this was horrible, most horrible ; and he could
find no comforter, no, not one !

Dorothy, when she saw the letters, was indignant
enough ; but that did not help to wipe
out the feeling of disgrace which Benson felt. She
was vexed enough when she heard about the
Warden's letter, and blamed Charles for sending
it back.

'^ For," said she, " he is a Dignitary of the
Church, and your pastor and master, and you

ought to show him proper respect. What sou have
done will do sou no good, and only make your
college authorities more embittered against you.-"

Which was wisely said by Dorothy.

In time Benson's affairs began to be more
settled. His guardian and trustee, Mr. C. Elphin-
stone, went through the Bankruptcy Court, and
paid a first and apparently final dividend of a
farthing in the pound, which put something like
£10 into Benson's pocket; he also received a
cheque for £57 from the St. Mary's College Bursar
as his caution-money and the value of his furniture,
minus the amount due to the college for battels,
&c., and with the sale of some of his things he
realised together about £100.

Now, although he had seriously and honestly
meant to apply this money towards paying his
debts, he could not bring himself to part with it
when he had got it. His fortune was so undecided,
and his stay at Keswick perforce drawing to a
close. For Dorothy had said more than once, in
her straightforward way, that it would not do for
her to be seen much longer with a " young man "
always hanging about her. He thought it almost
absolutely necessary to keep all his funds to himself,
and to pay his debts — When ? — by-and-bye.

All the things he had left at Oxford were taken
back to the places from whence they came, and
after a little polishing up were probably all resold
(?) to new comers at the same or higher

prices than Benson had been charged at first, and
gradually his name faded out from the recollection
of all at the University, till at last he was forgotten
in classic Oxford.

Dorothy did not forget her " bright-eyed boy,"
and although she thought it desirable that he
should go elsewhere, one evening towards the end
of the third month of his stay at Keswick, she
brought him into the parlour and made him sit
down, and said —

'^ Boy, what do you mean to do ? "

Boy didn't know, and seemed not to care particularly
either; for much smoking of late had
made him almost indifferent to anything, but at
last he said —

'''I thought of going abroad and studying in
Germany and France for a year or two, and then
trying to get some appointment somewhere."

'' The latter part of your speech is vague," said
Dorothy. " ' Some appointment somewhere ' does
not sound substantial, and you must go in for
substantialities and not for smoke (a little hit of
Dolly's at the bad habit mentioned), hem, not for
smoke. The first part of your talk sounds sensible,
and must be done, I think, and you shall have
£50 from the old woman who talks of her gown to
help you with. God bless you, my dear, dear boy.
Give Dorothy a kiss."

After a little more conversation, it was decided
that Benson should go abroad and continue his

education, the place chosen being Leipzic ; and ina
few days this plan was brought so far into execution
that Benson left Keswick with his portmanteau
and his dog, and travelled to the town of
books, fairs, tobacco, and beer ; and here we leave
him for the present.

A Matrimonial Offer.

A FEW montis after Benson had. left Keswick for
Germany, Miss Crosthwaite received the following
letter from her sister Sabine : —

3, Grosvenor Gardens,

"London, W.
My dearest Dorothy,

"I have suck an event to tell you
of, and I am sure you will be very interested
to hear it. Just fancy, I have had a matrimonial
offer made me by such a nice man, a
clergyman of the Church of England. With such
lively blue eyes, and a long yellow beard ! So
clever too, and so religious ! His name is
Bartlemy, the Rev. Bartlemy Hiram, Curate of St.
Olphage^s Church, in the parish of Wykeham-within,
in Kent. I have known him some time ;
he was introduced to me by Mrs. Lipp-Sirva, our
mutual friend, and he has always been so attentive
and nice to me, whenever I met him at parties
(which happened often enough), that I invited
him to tea with me one day. I couldn't see any
harm in that, as he is a widower, and I am, you
know, over fifty. Well, he came, and has come
very often since. It was only yesterday, though,
that I found out the real meaning of his visits. I

Viii. I. E

will tell yon how it all happened. We, that is, I
and Bartleraj, or rather, Bartlemy and I, were
sitting at our tea, talking of this and that, when
suddenly he put his arm around my waist, and with
his mouth full of uttered toast, said ' Sabina.'

^' I was naturally very much startled at this
strange behaviour, and disengaging myself from
his embrace, walked a few paces away from him ;
but he soon followed, and actually, yes, Dorothy,
fell on his knees before me, with his soft felt hat
in one hand and a large muffin, with a bite out of
it, in the other ; and gently waving them, he said,
'Yes, Sabina, I love you.' I did not know what
to say, for although, you know, I have got rather
accustomed to this sort of thing, and have ever
since I have been in London received the attentions
of a Commissioner, a Civil Commissioner,
whose mother was a Baronet's Aunt, I was taken by
surprise. Bartlemy, who in the meanwhile refreshed
himself with another bite out of his muffin
(still remaining on his knees, and I noticed that
the poor dear man had some difficulty in maintaining
his balance), went on to say : ' One who is in
Paradise ' (he always talks of Paradise, and so he
probably is a little High in his notions), sone who
is in Paradise, Sabina, Esther by name, is, is, in
fact, no more. I love you, Sabina, and would
gather you to my breast and shield you there, and
have you there at rest. In short, will you marry
your devoted Hiram, your impassioned Bartlemy ? '

''Of course I couldn't answer him at once, for

he is still a young man, hardly thirty I should
say; and people would talk. So I told him to
wait, and call again in a week, and he consented,
though he seems very impatient and ardent for me,
and from his manner seemed to want to marry me
there and then, which was, of course, impossible.

Please, Dol dear, write by return, and tell me
what you think about it. I have told you all I
know about him, except that he is a relation of
some sort, as he says, to that great Hiram who
wrote a book, you know, in King Henry the
Fourth's reign, ' On Survive Leeches, or the
Morale Blood-Suckers,' which would, of course,
be a nice thing to have in the family. I don't
know anything about his property or belongings,
except that he is always dressed neatly, though
rather High, and that he wears a very handsome
gold watch ; but he wouldn't want to marry me if
he hadn't enough to keep a wife on, and I don't
see how he can know anything about my property.

So mind you write.

What is this about a young man, called Brunswick,
I think, staying three months at your place,
as I heard from Mrs. Lately Taylor, of Keswick ;
tell me about him. I must stop now and think
about Party.

Ever your loving sister (mind you write),

Sabine Ceosthwaite.

Pes. — Party just passed the window looking so
unhappy and distressed, that I had half a mind to
call him in."

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

Dorothy did not consider long, but got her
writing case out and wrote as follows : —

Keswick.
"Dear Sabine,

"Don't be a goose. Hiram has heard
from Mrs. Lipp-Sirva about your fortune, and
she was, of course, told by Mrs. Lately Taylor,
that precious old Keswick gossip. Send him
about his business at once. I am writing to Mr.
Hirdon, papa's executor, about it, so you will get
some good advice from him. Benson, not Brunswick,
is a young friend of mine, who had to leave
Oxford, and came to stay with me for a time. He is
now in Germany, but I fear is not doing well from
his own accounts. His fellow-students seem coarse,
horrid men, not at all suitable companions for my
gentle, poetical boy.

Send Higgam, or whatever his name is, about
his business ; you are only making yourself unhappy
with him. Fancy, you Mrs. tJiggam ! I
am glad the Baronet's aunt's son was Civil ; at any
rate, even he would have been better than High


Tour affectionate sister,

Dorothy Crosthwaite."

A few weeks passed before Miss Crosthwaite
heard any more about the absurd pretensions of
the High Church Curate ; and rather anxious
weeks they were, for Dorothy loved her sister
dearly, the only remnant of her own family since

the death of her father, for her two brothers had
died long before the General, and she was
frightened lest she might be ensnared into a
foolish and unhappy match.

She ]oT€ Sabine dearly, and yet Sabine was
never quite a sister to her, for there had always
been some jealousy on the younger sister's part.
Dorothy, being the eldest, had, after the death of
their mother, taken the management of the
General's house ; and this circumstance, together
with the fact that the General had shown a
marked preference for his eldest daughter, who
was always cheerful and intelligent, had occasioned
some bitter feeling against Dorothy to arise in
Sabine's heart. And this was partly the reason
that, at the breaking up of their home, Sabine had
decided to live away from her sister, and carried
out her decision in spite of all Dorothy^s^s entreaties.
Of course, Dorothy's loving heart was rather hurt
at this, and who is to wonder at her rather inexplicable
love for Benson, when one considers how
a loving heart longs to find some object on which
to expend its tenderness ?

Sabine had merely acknowledged her letter with
a curt note, and Dorothy was left in the dark with
reference to the Reverend Bartlemy Hiram's
wooing, until she heard from Mr. Hirdon, who
wrote her fully on the matter, and expressed himself
with some vigor on the subject of the ardent
lover. This was what he wrote : — , :

'' Neville, Warwickshire.

"Dear Madam

^' In reply to your letter of inquiry, dated
July 5th, having reference to a certain Rev.
Bartlemy Hiram, and his matrimonial intentions
with regard to your sister , Miss Sabine Crosthwaite,
I have much pleasure in telling you that for the
present, at any rate, this absurd and distressing
affair has been broken off.

'ras soon as I received your note, and as I was at
the time in town, I called on your sister, and
found her in company with the gentleman named.
He left shortly after I came in, and I had the
pleasure of an interview with her. It appears
that she had already accepted his proposal, and I
was in fear that chis unhappy marriage would be
consummated, for nothing that I could say seemed
to influence Miss Sabine in the slightest ; and she
was fully determined to carry out the affair until
we came to the question of settlements. In conjunction
with Mr. Hardwick, the solicitor of your
family, I called on Mr. Hiram to suggest a full
settlement of the lady's property, capital and
interest, on herself. He referred us to his
solicitor, a Mr. Isaac Solomonss of the City, a
practitioner, I regret to say, of very ill repute,
and who has already once been temporarily struck
off the Rolls. This person, acting, no doubt,
under his client's instructions, was most unreasonable
in his demands, and would hear of no settlement
of any kind. When we had tried in vain to

come to some agreement with, him we laid the
matter before Miss Sabine. I believe she wrote
to the Eey. Hiram and expostulated with him,
and received a letter in answer from bim, in which
he was gentlemanly enough to say that, as there
were other young ladies about, he was willing to
break off the engagement, unless his solicitor's
demands were fully agreed to. This letter,
together with the earnest representations of both
myself and Mr. Hardwick, prevailed on your sister
to write to the man and request him to cease his
visits ; and there the matter ends.

I regret that I can say no good about the
gentleman in question. It appears that he came
to pay his addresses to your sister, of course without
ber knowledge, even during the life time of his
first wife, who has only been buried a few months.
There are many rumours to the effect that he
cruelly ill-used her, but these must not necessarily
be believed. He has, as far as I could learn from
his shifty solicitor, no property of any sort, and is
only dependent for his livelihood on the small
emoluments of his cure.

Altogether, I think we have reason to congratulate
ourselves that the affair has come to an
end, and that your sister is left in the quiet enjoyment
of her fortune.

I am, madam, with deep respect,

Yours very faithfully,

"John HlEDOX."

So for a short time the Reverend Bartlemy

Hiram, curate of St. Olphage's Church, in the
parish of Wykeham-Within, Kent, was played out.
But only for a short time.

And now to go back to our hero.

When Benson went to Germany to study there
as a student, he had but little expectations of finding
the life there at all in harmony with his ideas
and ways. But the reality, when he came to
appreciate it, was very much worse than he had
anticipated.

He found Leipzic a noisy, ugly, and vulgar
town, and his fellow students beer-drinking,
coarse swashbucklers of the first degree. He
entered himself, the first term, as a student of law,
for it was always his ambition to become a
barrister, having some idea, when he felt energy
within, to make the bar the way to a political
life, the means of regaining the title, which by
his illegitimacy, and a failure of lawful heirs to
the Earldom of Brookshire, had been rendered
extinct.

His entering himself as a student in any of the
four faculties was, for the first term naturally only
a matter of form, for although he possessed a
certain knowledge, which term, by the way, usually
signifies an uncertain knowledge, of German, he
was not sufficiently acquainted with the tongue
of the fatherland to be able to attend any of the
lectures on law with any profit to himself.

Be applied himself at once to the study of
German, and when he could read easily soon.



entered into an appreciation of the wonderful
richness of the language. Nor were the German
poets unheeded bj him, and many an hour did he
pass over the beauties of Toland, Heine or
Chamisso, deeply wondering how a nation so
material in its tastes could produce such men with
minds so rightly in harmony with the beautiful.

Friends he made none, and spent most of his
time in his rooms, endeavouring to forget where
he was, surrounded by books and flowers. His
dog, the terrier Fang, was, in fact, his only companion,
in many ways preferable to a German of
the ordinary student type.

Altogether he was not happy, and deeply regretted
his refined Oxford life, the gentlemanly
professors and well-born companions which he had
found there, and chafed and fumed at his position.
As he wrote to his friend Douglas once —

When 1 consider all the places on God's earth
where I might be, instead of here ; when I lookout
of the window on the unsightly town and its
coarse, vulgar inhabitants ; when I consider the
unpleasing sights and dissonant sounds which
daily, hourly, offend my eyes and ears ; when I
find myself as it were in a sty, and wallowing in
swine's wash; my anger against the man who has
brought me to this state rises up with implacable
force."

Another ingredient too in the unpleasantness of
his position was the rigid economy he had to practice.
All he possessed in the world was the

A Bartered HONOUR.

hundred and fifty pounds previously accounted for,
and as he had determined to study two years before
attempting to work for his livelihood, his income
was but seventy pounds a year, for his passage out
and the preliminary expenses of the University had
absorbed the other ten.

But contenting himself with coarse food and no
luxuries, he managed to live ; yet his letters to his
friends were always full of complaints, and he was
never happy in it all.

The Oxford tradesmen too kept dunning him,
and every week Dorothy forwarded suspicious-looking
envelopes from Oxford, containing demands
for sums owing, with vague threats of legal proceedings.
These Benson, or rather Hauberk, for
when he came abroad he dropped Benson, put one
and all into his stove. And in this way he passed
the first year of his life at Leipzic, working a
little, reading much that was beautiful and, consequently,
mercantile unprofitable, writing
poetry, and fuming.

In about the middle of the summer of the first
year, after he had left Oxford, Benson was sitting
one afternoon in his dingy room, regarding with
looks of evident disgust a slatternly servant girl
who was occupying her coarse red hands in removing
the greasy dinner, of which Benson had but
slightly partaken. The handsome young man was
evidently out of place with reference to his surroundings.

The room was small and lead only one
window, which looked on a dingy street, with a
pork-butcher's shop opposite ; it was scantily
furnished, and of most incongruous contents. The
paper was in hideous taste, at least as much of it
as remained, and the only chattels were a bedstead,
a table, two consumptive-looking chairs,
and a chest of drawers afflicted apparently with the
dropsy. Some attempts had evidently been made
by the present occupier at beautifying it, for pots
and flowers filled the narrow window sill and stood
about the room, and a photograph or two stood on
the chest of drawers, and the St. Mary's College
arms hung over the bed-head ; but it seemed that
the energy that at first had prompted the owner
to attempt this beautifying, had broken down
hopelessly before the aggressive ugliness of the
place and its surroundings, for objects which had
fallen from their proper places had been left where
they fell, and thick dust seemed to cover them as
with a shroud. In one corner was a large pile of
books, by the side of which a little white terrier,,
with a yellow patch over his left eye, kept unceasing
watch ; no one but Benson might touch a book
without first bestriding the senseless corse of the
terrier Fang. Fang, too, seemed not to appreciate
the surroundings, and eyed viciously a muzzle
which lay near him ; for the warlike and brave-germans
will not allow a single dog, even those
harnessed to carts (and they do still inflict ignominious
bondage on the noblest of quadrupeds),

A BARTERED HONOUR.

to go into the streets unless lie is fully muzzled,
and in no season of the year, not even in the
coldest winter, does this rule vary.

Benson was wearily turning over the leaves of
£i dry-looking law book, when the greasy servant,
whose face looked as if it had for weeks been used
as a doormat, said —

'^ There is a student downstairs, a foreigner,
wants to see you/^

Benson looked up, and remarked rather pettishly,
I am not at home, you know, Lena, I am not at
home for anyone."

*but you are at home," said the servant, rather
roughly.

"Idiot" (this in English), "T do not wish to
see him, whoever he is ; I tell you I'm not at
home. Tell him I've gone out."

I'll not tell him nothing of the sort, there
now," setting her podgy arms akimbo. 'not for
you, for you're not of the right sort. The whole
time you and your cur have been here I have had
more work to do than I care for ; you needn't think
because you are an Engender that you can get me
to do as you like, especially as you're so precious
liberal to me, and have only given two whole
marks the year you've been here. Do your dirty
work yourself. You're no student. We have had
Engenders here, and a German baron, and they
did know what to do, and how to behave to the
matches."

All this was spoken so fast, and in the ugly

Dresden dialect, for the girl came from Dresden,
that Benson could hardly understand a word. The
tone, however, was apparently insolent, and he was
going to bid the girl begone, when his visitor,
pushing her aside, came into the room.

Lena, after casting as withering a glance at
Benson as a jealous jellyfish might throw on a
hated rival, swept from the room with as much
dignity as a prize pig on skates.

Benson's visitor was a young American, Herbert
Lovell by name, a pleasant young fellow enough,
whose casual acquaintance Benson had made in
the lecture-room, and where a conversation, mutually
condemning the German system, had led to an
exchange of cards, and that to Lovell's call.

Benson was by no means pleased to see his
visitor, for although in his heart he was glad to
have someone to talk to and relieve his dulness, he
was ashamed at being found in such a room, and
being spoken to by so common a woman in the
manner above described, but he could not but be
civil to the young man, and so bade the American
sit down.

"Thank you. Hauberk," said Lovell, "I will
sit down, I am sorry for disturbing you. What a
pretty little dog that is ; come here, sir, come
dog."

Benson, or Hauberk, as we had better now
call him, offered no remark, and so Lovell went
on.

I came round to tell you that the corps of

students, called the Porcania, have invited me to
their festive Kneipe this evening", and have said I
might bring a friend. Will you come ? "

What is a festive Kneipe 9 " asked Hauberk,
expressing contempt.

I don't at all quite know' said the American,
but I think it is a sort of festivity, where each
man tries to drink more beer than his neighbour,
and where they sing and make a great
noise."

"Tour invitation doesn't sound tempting, I
must say, from your description of the feast."

"No," answered the American, "but it might
be interesting, I thought, to us who are foreigners,
to see what goes on, and how these Germans will
behave, and so on."

Perhaps it would be, but we are certain to be
disgusted, and may fall out with some of them if
we express our disgust, and I for one, cannot
conceal that feeling with much skilled

let us go and take our chance; if we do
fall out with any one of them, I dare say we shall
be a match for them, and we shall then have
gained the double experience of how the Germans
drink and how they fight. What d'you think ? "

Well, I will come, and thank you, Lovell, for
asking me. What time did you say ? "

I think it begins at eight, or rather at that
time they begin to drink."

^ The two young men went at the appointed time,
and as Hauberk wrote a full account of all he saw.



tea-rd, and did, at the festive Kneipe, of the noble
corps of the Porcania, corps-students of the University
of Leipsic in Saxony, to his friend Douglas,
we may as well borrow the letter from Douglas and
give a copy of it.

Jude Grasse, No. 9a, Leipsic, Saxony.

Mt dear George,

"I have long had the intention of whiting
to you in answer to the pleasant letter you sent
me from Oxford last week, but, as I have often
said before, I have nothing to write about. I
have described to you the routine of my life here :
lectures in the morning, veal and pork at one
o'clock, a dismal walk in this wretched town in
the afternoon, pork and veal at seven, and books
till bedtime. Apart from the occasional excitement
of a romp with Fang (you remember Fang, the dog
with the taller neck), this is my daily programme.

But yesterday I happened to be present at a
German festivity, and was so amused by what I
saw that I determined to write to you about it.

I must first tell you that I have made the acquaintance
of a young American, a certain Lovell, a
pleasant young man, but one of no family; his
father is a brewer of Surat beer in the States, and
he is studying chemistry (in Oxford called
stinks ') here. I seem, by the way, to be always
thrown in with brewers ; do you remember
Mangles at Oxford ? I have not heard anything
about him since I left. Tell me what he is doing,
please when you write.

Well, Lovell asked me yesterday to a students'
evening' party, and, though rather loth I went,
expecting to find something similar to an Oxford
wines with rather worse company, and beer instead
of the nobler beverage for refreshment.

I thought, of course, that it would be held ina
private room, belonging to one of the students,
for I must tell you that the inviting party was one
of the best cor ps here, namely, the Porcania, consisting
almost solely of German noblemen. I was
rather surprised to find that we were to be entertained
in an ordinary public-house, not much
better in style than the Need Fox or the Blue
Camel of any ordinary English village. I noticed,
by the way, a few empty bottles of a cheap sort of
German champagne, standing near the entrance,
which Lovell assured me had been standing therefor
more than a month, and were, as he told me,
put there in a negligent way, but were meant to
impress the Philistines and other students with
the opiilency and the refined tastes of the members
of the Porcania club or corps.

After what I had seen, I fully expected that
we were to be entertained in the public bar-room
of the house, and was proposing to return home
-when we were joined by Lovell's friend, the man
who had invited us. He introduced himself to us
as Count Hattnichviel, in which family there are
no less than seventy-seven counts and countesses
of the same title. He was dressed in the uniform
of the club, that is, he wore a green cap of a

peculiar shape, something like a Hgh pork-pie,
with the flat top end bent over in front. Between
his coat and waistcoat I saw a narrow ribbon
striped with three colours, which seemed to passover
one shoulder and under the other, like a sort
of sash. This is, you know, a sign that he had
fought the three duels which every German corps-student
is obliged to fight, though I saw no traces
of wounds on his face. He was very polite indeed, and
appeared quite a gentleman. He led us through
the public-house into the yard, across which lay a
sort of building which looked like a barn, into
which we went. The appearance of the interior
was strikipof enough. At one end was a gallery,
in which there was a band performing, as we entered,
the ' Watch on the Rhine ' (which, en passant
they performed ten times during the time I stayed
there). In the room were two tables, arranged
like the letter T, and around these were seated
about thirty men, all dressed more or less like
Count Hattnichviel ; that is, in addition to the cap
and sash, they wore black frock coats, open dort
the chest, waistcoats also very open, and displaying
a lot of shirt, very much ornamented and, as a
rule, fastened with imitation coral or brass studs ;
turn-down collars, black bows, baggy trousers, and
Hessian boots. Altogether, the dress reminded
one of a mixture between a waiter, a butcher, a
French hairdresser, and a gentleman in evening
clothes, though very slightly of the latter. At the
head, that is at the table across the top, sat the

VOL. I. F

president of the corps, a certain Baron Svilmuch,
dressed as I have described, and only differing
from the rest by wearing certain additional ribbons,
and by having his hair curled and parted down the
back, wbicb, as I was afterwards told by Count
Hattnichviel, was done with a view to provide such
little insects as had chosen his baronial head for a
permanent residence with a clear highway on
which to undertake their peregrinations over their
demesnes. You will excuse my mentioning this,
but it is so salient a trait of German facetiousness
that I cannot help putting it down.

The room was brightly decorated with drinking
horns, some very costly and mounted with
silver ; flags, swords, and pictures, which stood out
brightly against the dark oak panelling.

'ras soon as we came in , Count Hattnichviel
provided us with chairs, and we sat down. The
table was covered with pots of beer ; the pots
made of white ware with pewter lids, decorated,
some with the arms of the owners, some with the
club arms, namely, one pig gules, regardant and
rampant, surmounted by a beer pot argent. In
one corner of the room stood one enormous barrel
of beer, holding, I might guess, a hundred
gallons.

"I noticed, too, that many of the men were
smoking out of long pipes, the bowls of which
were also decorated with the Porcania arms. On
the table stood a box of cigars and several plates
of radishes, to produce thirst.

After a few formalities lead been gone into.
Count Hattnichviel got up and addressed the
company.

' Gentlemen, corps-brothers and foxes (foxes
being equivalent to the Oxford 'freshmen), I
have here two guests whom I wish to present to

you. There names are .' "We both gave our

names.

The president, Baron Svilmuch, then rose, and
enforcing silence by two deafening blows on the
table with a long sword, said —

' I think it will be advisable for each member
to get up and tell his name, so as to avoid the long
ceremonial of a separate introduction in each
case.'

"Then each Porcanian got up and told his
name. I don't remember them all, but I counted
thirteen counts, twelve barons, and about eight
sons avon being a sort of title inferior to an esquire).
I felt quite proud at being one of the two untitled
men present; indeed, it seemed quite a
distinction there. One or two names I remember ;
there was a Count Yindinperse, a Baron Litteltinn,
a Herr von Depended, and too many others to remember.
When we had all said our names we sat
down, and the duty of the evening seemed, as I
had indeed anticipated, to consist in drinking
beer, beer, beer, beer. And amazingly fast it
went. I should be ashamed to say how much
Baron Svilmuch drank. He seemed to pour it
down a funnel instead of drinking it, putting his

full pint measure to this lips, tilting it up, and
setting the measure down empty. There were
some songs sung in chorus, and some speeches
made, but beer was over all. If any man spoke
after the president had ordered silentium, hie was
punished by being forced to drink out half or all
his pot full ; and from the readiness with which,
the culprit did it, the laws of the Porcania seemed
to be by no means Draconian in severity. If any
of the company left the room without permission,
he was punished in the same way. Pots were
filled and pots emptied. Beer, smoke, beer ; smoke,
beer, smoke. Healths were drunk, too, one
member crying to another, ' I mount you something,'
or ' I mount you a half, or a whole,' and
the pledged one answering, 'I follow,' and then
drink the amount be had been pledged in. When
a general toast was drunk, the President got up
and said, ' Let's rub so-and-so a salamander.'
Then the company filled their glasses or pots, and
all stood up ; then the President asked, ' Are the
mixtures duly mixed ? ' ' ISimt,' cried the company.
Then the President, after hammering the table
with, his sword, said, 'Then one, two, three; one,
two, three ; fire away.' As soon as each man had
drained his measure he dashed his pot against the
table. All being finished the salamander was
rubbed by each and all hammering the table with
his pot. The band braying, the hammering, the
guttural gurgling, the smell of the smoke and the
beer, was to me more like an orgie in the pandemonium

than anything else; and after the first
interest in the affair had passed off, intensely
sickening, for this sort of thing went on and on,
and beer was drained ceaselessly with no variety
in the proceedings, except when someone staggered
out into the yard to render himself capable of
holding more by means strictly classical and even
Caesarea.

Hours went on and I can assure you, dear
Douglas, that I never felt so weary, or bored, or
disgusted in my life. At twelve o'clock the President
performed a rather remarkable feat, and, but
for the fact that I witnessed it with my own eyes,
I should hardly have deemed it possible ; namely,
just before the clock struck midnight, he ordered
twelve glasses to be set before him, and filled to
the top with beer, and at each stroke of the clock,
he emptied glass down his throat until the clock had
ceased striking, and the twelve glasses were empty.
Lovell remarked to me that if anyone had told
him that in America, he should have certainly
answered that it was too much to swallow.

This piece of bestiality, and the general state
of the company, half of whom were hopelessly
drunk, was the finishing stroke for me, and bidding
Hattnichviel good-night, I managed to get away
with Lovell. The last thing I saw of Baron
Svilmuch was that he was crawling on the floor
after his beer pot. I saw him again, however,
that night, being carried home by two porters.

I parted from Lovell soon after we got out,

and I hear to-daj that he has got into some silly
duel affair with a student here. If I hear anything
more about it I will write and tell sou, as a
description of a German duel among students may
interest you.

Such are the men with whom I am forced to
live, and when I tell you that such scenes occur
every night, and that every night they intoxicate
themselves in this disgusting manner, and being
assured that, when they are best, they are little
worse than men, and when they are worse they are
little better than beasts, you will allow that these
are hardly companions for me.

Be sure to write soon, and give me all the
news from the 'Rarity, and believe me, dear
Douglas, your very affectionate friend,

Charles Hauberk.

"Pes. — Eemember to address me as Charles
Hauberk, and not to add Benson, as I have given
that name up altogether."

MONSTROUS Teachers.

It is now necessary to transfer, for a short season,
the scene of action from the old to the new world,
and to go back for about three years to a small
town in the south of America , just on the borders
of the most southern limits of the United States,
and for the purposes of this story sufficiently
defined by the name of X — , there flourished a
very well-to-do trio of merchants who, trading
in company as the firm of *' White, Bartholomew,
and Ipworth,^' were making a very good business
by exporting sugar and cotton and importing coffee
and tea.

They were all three married men with children ;
Mr. Bartholomew was the youngest, and had least
capital in the house, and such capital as he had
was not his own, but belonged to his wife, who
was considerably older than he. Mr. Bartholomew
had had rather a curious life, the outline story of
which may as well be noted down here.

He was born in New York — the son of a,
washerwoman ; his father had been a corporal in
the United States army, and had retired with one
leg and a pension, the other leg, as well as part of
his scalp, remaining in the possession, tenure, and
quiet enjoyment of a great Sioux Chief, Milwaukee

Waw. The corporal finding himself provided for
for life, had entered into holy matrimony with the
lady of the mangle aforesaid. The pledge of their
love was a son, whom the corporal christened
Milwaukee in grateful remembrance of the
chieftain who had been the indirect means of
procuring him his pension. Milwaukee did not
long enjoy the paternal protection, for the
corporal, whose head had been injured by Milwaukee
Waw's amateur hairdressing, developing
a grande passion for distilled waters, developed
likewise an inflammation of the brain, which, as
Mil. remarked, " soon made a angel of dad."
Dad having been made " sl angels' the widow
was left with an only son to educate. The
worthy washerwoman's system of education did not
however meet Milwaukee's views on the same subject,
and some differences arose between mother and
son at frequent intervals. At such times the widow
would make her mangle contrive a double debt to
pay, not as a homely and comfortable contrivance
for the smoothing of purified linen, but by inserting
the fingers of Milwaukee between the rollers and
gently turning the handle, caused the machine to
instil valuable moral precepts into the mind of her
refractory offspring.

Under this gentle tutelage the favoured boy
grew up until he reached his tenth year. At
about this period of his existence that strong
spirit of independence, which is the chief and most
beautiful feature in the character of our American

cousins, developed itself so strongly in Mil's chest
that he could no longer brook the mangle and the
doctrines it instilled. One evening, having been
detected bj his worthy mother in the hen-house
occupying himself with abstracting the eggs from
under a sitting hen, sucking them and replacing
them under the distressed and duped fowl, she
dragged him into the wash-house, and was proceeding
to apply the usual corrective when young
Mil., after violently kicking the maternal shins
and pushing her over the instrument of torture,
darted out of the house, after first picking up the
tin box in which the widow kept her savings. The
widow, as soon as she had recovered from the
attack, gave chase, but Milwaukee was out of sight,
and out of sight Milwaukee remained, " and never
came home any more."

It would take too long to tell how Milwaukee
fared after leaving the maternal roof, or what he
did when the contents of the tin box were spent,
but suffice it to say that in various capacities and
professions, ranging from area sneak, beggar,
newspaper boy, match seller, to bogus advertiser
and quack doctor, this enterprising young man
contrived to live until he attained his twentieth
year. Repenting then of his various evil ways,
he had come in time to the town of X — , and a
religious frame of mind. Here he soon obtained
employment in a Methodist chapel by leading the
choir, acting as pew opener, lay reader, and
collector. Evil persons did say that some of the

collections went into Milwaukee's pocket, but this
is only like what one expects evil persons to say.
In course of time the parson of the Methodist
chapel died, and Milwaukee, after a brief courtship,
married his widow, who bestowed her hand
and eighteen thousand dollars on the young man.
Mil. then gave up the clerical profession, and
adding his savings to his wife's dollars, bided his
opportunity, and, finding one, invested the same
in the new firm of White and Ipworth, coffee
merchants, &c.

As a further instance of what evil-minded people
will say, there was a rumour in the town at X —
that just before Milwaukee's marriage he had
received a letter from New York telling him that
his mother, who had found out his whereabouts,
was dying in a workhouse, from misery and
starvation, and that the young man, instead of
deferring his marriage and going off to see his
mother, and lighten her last few hours, had
written to her, telling her that all she had to do
was to repent, and then, he added, " dad and you
and me may make quite a happy family party
again of it," refusing however to defray any expenses
whatsoever on her behaK.

Some, in their malice, have gone so far as to say
that he posted this filial, though business-like
letter, without preparing it.

However this may be, it is certain that from his
wedding-day Milwaukee enjoyed a very comfortable

existence. The business paid large profits
and Milwaukee took bis share and enjoyed them
with Mrs. Bartholomew. Of this lady, let it be'
said, that she was a plain, but motherly and affectionate
woman of about thirty-five, who was
very fond of her second husband , and implicitly
believed in him. But in spite of the combined
attractions and comforts of an elegant villa, an
amiable wife, and a good income, Milwaukee
Bartholomew was not happy. He did not like his
wife; she was too old, and too unattractive for
Lin. His idea of a woman, he used to say, was
Esther, partner Whitens wife, as crumbs a girl
as he'd set eyes on. Mrs. White, indeed, deserved
even more intelligible praise than this, for
she was a beautiful and intelligent woman. Mr.
White, on the other hand, was a coarse, hardheaded
business-man, who had no time for billings
and cooing. He used to say to her, " If you
wanted to make love all day to your husband you
should have taken a billankooer, not a coffee-merchant.
I've no time for billankooing-j and
hardly time to turn the money over sharp enough ; ''
and with this Mrs. White had to satisfy her heart,
yearning, as it did, for plenty of comfortable and
cosy love-making.

Mr. Ipworth, who was senior partner, although
his name appeared last in the name of the firm,
was a quiet retiring man. He was an Englishman,,
the younger son of a drunken and impoverished

baronet, and had come over to America to make
Ms fortune. Bj dint of hard work and unremitting
industry he managed to accumulate a considerable
fortune as a sugar planter, but finding this occupation
not suited to his health, he had sold out,
and settling in X — , had invested his capital in
founding an import and export business, and
wishing to extend the concern, he had first taken
White into partnership, and finally Bartholomew.

To tell the truth, Ipworth disliked his junior
partner and distrusted him, but as he lived at some
distance from X — , and only favoured the " office "
occasionally with his presence, and as Milwaukee's
twenty-five thousand dollars were very useful in
his venture, he put his dislike in his pocket.

White cared nothing for any man except himself,
and the sole occupation and object of his life
was to make money. His wife, he hardly ever
thought about, and left her to her own devices.
He stayed at the office all day, and took all his
meals at a neighbouring hotel, and seldom returned
to Cashville before midnight, spending his
evenings in some bar-room.

Cashville was a handsome villa, situated at about
two miles from X — , and here it was, one evening,
that two figures might have been descried,
pacing the garden lawn, in earnest conversation.

The dining-room windows were level with the
terrace, stood open, and within could be seen spread
out on the snow white cloth of the dining-table
the remnants of a luxurious tete-astute dinner.

It was late and the garden was almost dark, but
still the two continued to pace the lawn speaking*
earnestly.

From what has been told before it is hardly
necessary to say, that the two figures were Milwaukee
Bartholomew and Esther White.

Milwaukee was a tall man, with rather a stooping
gait ; he was not well made, and carried one
shoulder higher than the other ; his hair was red,
and he wore a short beard of the same colour ; his
eyes were blue, but closely set together, which gave
him a vicious look to which an ill-formed mouth
contributed ; his face was long and thin, and had a
scar from the left eye to the corner of his lip; his
teeth were handsome, regular and strong, and his
feet and hands were well-formed ; he was dressed
in black, with a shiny frock coat and trousers, ar
black silk tie, and black kid gloves ; he wore a
black wide-awake hat, and carried a silk umbrella.


Mrs. White was dressed in evening dress, and
wore a black mantilla over her head. She was a
woman of middle size, and had a plump, well-formed
figure; her skin was dark, and this with
her black hair, and dashing eyes claimed something
of Creole blood. As Mil. used to say, " Shea
touch of the tarbrush and no mistake."

From their gestures an observer might have
judged that the man was pleading some suit,
which the female feared, though willing to listen
to.

Listen to me, Esther' said the man, as they
replied the lawn for about the hundredth time.
Why don't you cut your husband slap up."

'' I can't do it," said Esther ; " you know I
can't, I have no money, nothing but my jewels."

'aye, aye," said Mil., "and I guess he'd miss
the same more than he'd miss you."

Thank you, sir, but what do you mean by missing
me ? Why should he miss me? "

Well, if you bolted, it strikes me you would be
missed somewhere, sometime, somehow."

"Bolted, Mr. Bartholomew, what do you
mean?"

Well, you're a rum' un, Esther, bolted is vv-hat
I mean. If you bolted, eloped, cut your stick,
amputated your mahogany, sloped, made tracks
with me."

"With you, sir; are you mad? "

Not exactly, ma'am."

Then what do you mean by addressing such
words, phrases and proposals to me ? Supposing
I told Mr. White when he comes home, and — "

Stay," said Bartholomew, " you do not need
go further. You have asked me a question, and
you shall have an answer. Supposing, as you say,
that you told Mr. White when he comes home
though they do say he finds the bar girl at
Slewup's mightily more pleasant company than his
-vvife — supposing you told him then, that I, his
partner, had asked you to run away with me, Mr.
White would out with his six shooter and I with

mine. We should stand thus for a minute or two,
when he would ask me to explain. I should plead
guilty to the main point, but I should go on to
explain that, in point of fact, you, my dear madam,
were the most to blame. I should tell him how
often I had dined at his residence, free of cost ;
how often I had walked you out, what letters I
have had from yoUj and all the rest of it. You
see, my dear Mrs. White, it is necessary to be plain
with you. I have plenty to do at home and many
friends in the town with whom I could spend my
time more profitably, gaming and so on than
dining and mooning about with you. Pll tell you
what it is. Tm tired of my wife. I'm sick of
X — , and tired of the States generally. Mr.
White is rough and rude to you, and we suit each
other admirably. Now don't go and talk more nonsense,
and don't stamp on the ground, but listen !
In a week or two I am to travel to New York city
with a large sum of money of the firm's to invest
there. White and Ipworth go to M — on business.
Fly with me, and let us be happy together ;
while staying here we are both miserable."

Wretch ! thief ! " cried Mrs. White, '' to what
do you invite me ? No, a thousand times, no ! "

Steady, Esther, steady, no loud words for
night-hours and servants. Why, to-night, just
now, when I asked you to cut your husband, you
said you would if you had the money,"

"When did I ever say such a thing?"

"Why, just now."

When you talked about cutting, I never had
the slightest idea that you meant " —

"No, Esther; and you do quite right to act this
little farce out a little longer. It soothes your
conscience, and makes the affair more piquant forme.
Perhaps you are right, perhaps it is sinful
and wrong, and all the rest of it. Yes, yes, I see
it now. I had better go home, and at the office
tomorrow ask what partner White will give me
for a bundle of old letters addressed to a certain
Jehu, from Esther White ; or tell him that I have
frequently been invited here by White and wife,
and have never met but wife; or ask him to pay
the two thousand dollars which you owe me. Yes,
this must be done, it is the right course. I must
be off now. Good-night, madam."

Eor a moment Esther felt as if she could leap at
him and fasten her nails in his throat. Then fear
came over her at the ruthless threats, and she
burst out sobbing.

Answer me, Esther, answer me. You know I
love you, you know that you love me. Promise
to fly with me ? ''

In her trepidation and fear, and in her love,
wicked and foolish, she still loved him, there is no
saying what her answer might have been, but at
that moment a window on one of the upper floors
opened, and a curly-headed, blue-eyed little girl
peeped out into the garden, and putting out her
arms cried, " Come, mammy, come ; I'se got to say
my prayers. Where is you, mammy? I can't see

you, but I think you are in the garden. Come,
mammy."

Answer me, Esther, answer me."

"No, no," cried Mrs. White, ^^ how can you
ask me now ? — yes, darling, mother's coming — I'll
see you tomorrow. Begone. Begone. Oh, my
heart, my heart."

About a week after this event the three partners
met by appointment in their private room at the
office to discuss matters connected with the business.
It was there arranged that Bartholomew
should depart on the morrow for New York, with
thirty thousand dollars for investment in a new
mining company, it being deemed necessary by
the partners that one of them should see the
directors in person ; and that White and Ipworth
should travel to M — to make certain purchases,
the offices beings entrusted meanwhile to the head
clerk.

As soon as the conference was over, and Milwaukee
had bidden the two partners good-night,
and received from them the bundle of notes which
he was to take to New York, being especially
cordial in his farewell to partner White, he went
into the town instead of returning home.

He first turned his steps towards a remote
quarter of the town of X—, and in due time
reached the shop of a dealer in furniture. He
went in and requested to see the proprietor. Mr.
Levy, who recognized him, bade him enter the
private room.

VOL. I. G

Well' said Bartholomew, as soon as lie had
sat down, "all is ready for yon."

*' So' said the dealer, " then you are really
serious?"

"Of course I am, Mrs. Bartholomew and myself
have agreed when we return (and she does
not come back from the country till I return from
New York) to set up at Slewup's Hotel, instead of
keeping house for ourselves. You have seen the
furniture and the other effects, and can take possession
of the same. I sleep at Slewup's to-night
myself, as the house is shut up, and the servants
left to-day. If you will pay me the sum we agreed
on when you inspected the furniture, I will hand
you over the key of the house, which I will receive
back from you when I return. You may fetch the
things tomorrow at noon. You will find all right."

"Very well' said the dealer ; " if you will sign
me this order to take the things, you can have the
money at once. Your position here and the character
of your firm is full guarantee that everything
is as I saw it."

I hope so," said Milwaukee, as he signed the
order.

Mr. Levy then paid him in notes the sum demanded,
and Milwaukee bade him good-night,
giving him the key of the house which he had
occupied with Mrs. Bartholomew until then.

His next peregrination was to a low quarter of
X — , and he did not cease walking until he found
himself before a small and dirty lodging-house,
in a narrow, unpleasant street.

Here he knocked, and it was some time before
his knock received attention. At last the door
was opened, and a young and beautiful girl looked
out and asked who was there.

"It is I, my child'' said Bartholomew, in a
benevolent tone ; "it is I, your friend and benefactor."


"Oh, you is it; dear doctor. Come in, come
in'' said the girl.

Bartholomew entered, and taking the girl by
her hand bade her lead him upstairs.

And hovv^ child, is John ? How is our dear
brother to-day ? "

Oh, so much better ; he is really quite strong
now, and he has been asking so often when you
were coming. We thought you had determined
not to come."

"Mildred," said Bartholomew, with pious severity,
" when a good man says he will come, a goodman
comes. I am a good man, and I have come."

By this time the two had reached the door of
the top landing, and setting down the candle on
the floor, Mildred begged her companion to wait
a minute. She then ran into the room where a
pale young man was sitting reading some letters,
and throwing her arms around his neck, cried —

John, dearest, who do you think has come ? "

Not Dr. Toogood ? " said the young man.

Yes, dear," said Mildred.

Yes, Mr. John," said Bartholomew, entering,
"Dr. Toogood has come, and here he is. My
dear young friends," continued he, " I have considered

your case, and find that I could not do better
than employ a little of my superfluous and, I may
add, troublesome wealth in extending to you that
aid of which you stand in need. I hold in my
hand two tickets, taken in the name of John
Merton and lady, which will take you all the way
to San Francisco, where you will be able to join
your aged but, I do not doubt, venerable mother.
In order that you may achieve this journey in
comfort, I have taken from my little store a fifty-dollar
note to assist you in paying your landlord
here, and to assist you on your way. I only
impose two conditions, and here they are : That
you start from the station tomorrow at noon, and
that you take this bag with you, which, as you
see, has on it a worn out label, addressed to a
certain Bartholomew, which I beg you to leave in
the train when you get out at San Francisco, you
will do the same with this umbrella. Clearly
understand you are to leave the bag and this lady's
umbrella in the carriage from which you alight at
San Francisco."

"But why?" asked the young man, seeming
very much astonished.

Why ? my friend," rejoined the doctor ; " why?
People might ask why I help you two young
persons, whom I know nothing of, and only saw
for the first time yesterday, to a free passage to
San Francisco, first class, and supply you with
money for the journey. There is no reason for my
benevolence. In the same way, in fanciful way, I
wish to benefit some stranger unknown. Thus,"

said the doctor, while an honest glow spread itself
over his good face, " do I prepare pleasant surprises
for my fellow men. The person who finds
that bag will find some good books and some pots
of lobster; and the lady's umbrella will be none
the less welcome to the finder because it is sent to
her by an unknown hand."

The doctor, or rather Bartholomew, then laid
the bag and a silk umbrella, bearing on a silver
plate the initials E.W., on the table, and handed
over to the young man two tickets and a fifty-dollar
note.

The brother and sister, who could hardly
restrain tears of joy at the prospect thus before
them of so soon regaining their dear old mother,
seized their benefactor's hands and covered them
with kisses, protesting over and over again the
depth of their gratitude. At last the young man
said, " Of course, dear doctor, I will write and let
you know of our safe arrival, and how we found
poor mamma."

No, my son," said Bartholomew. " No, apart
from the fact that I proceed from here to the
death-bed (here his kind voice faltered) of a consumptive
nephew, I should not wish to be affected
by your thanks, children, but sleep well, and remember
what I have bidden you do. Good night,
good night."

Mildred wished to accompany their benefactor
downstairs, but he bade her go and pack, and then
go to sleep. The girl, however, in her joy lifted
her face to him, and asked him to kiss her,

A BARTERED HONOUR.

but repented afterwards, for the touch of his lips
was cold and repelling like a toad or a serpent.

Bartholomew left the house and walked rapidly
to the hotel, where, after writing a few letters, he
went to bed.

The next day John and Mildred Merton, who had
been left destitute in the town of X — by the death
of their uncle, and were in great misery till visited
by their unknown benefactor, departed for San
Francisco, which they reached — doing the service
which Dr. Toogood had asked them to do, with all
fidelity.

White and Ipworth departed in company for
M — in the early morning.

At three o'clock that afternoon a couple got
into one of the carriages of a train which started
for a seaport town from which a line of steamers
sailed weekly to Liverpool. The man was tall
with a stoop, and carried his left shoulder higher
than the right. Be wore blue spectacles, and had
his face tied up as if for tooth-ache. The woman
was middle-sized, of a plump and well-formed
figure. Their luggage was thus directed —

MRS. ESTHER HIRAM,

Pass, to Liverpool,

ENGLAND.

STUDENT LIFE AT LEIPZIG.

Letter from George Douglas to Charles Hauberk.

'' St. Mary's College, Oxford.

'' My Dear Hauberk, —

I write to thank you most heartily for
the nice long letter you sent me. I was very much
amused indeed by your account of the proceedings
of the festivity of the Porcania Club ; rather
different in style, I should say, from the wines we
used to be at, at Lord B — 's of the ' House I
never thought, however, that gentlemen would
behave in such a manner, and, to judge from your
letter, they exhibit equal bad taste in their dress
and conversation. Poor Charlie ! I pity you
amongst such men, and yet I suppose there is no
help for it.

You ask me for Oxford news. I go out so little
and read so hard that, to tell you the truth, I know
very little what goes on. Robinson, our senior
bursar, had an apoplectic fit from gorging himself
too much at our Gaudy, and Stapleton, one of
our college tutors, has been ejected from his fellowship
for being found out to be married — it appears
he has been married ever since he was first elected,
and kept his wife down in St. John's Wood,
London. A general who ran away from the-enemy
in the late war, but is connected with

the Marquis of S — , has been made honorary
LL.D. here. I was present at his installation.
^''A good many fellows ask after you, and
seem to be much interested in your doings.
Mangles, sour private friend, has been sent down
for never doing any work. I saw him before he
left. He said he should go into the beer and
sugar line himself, which I should think will suit
his capacity admirably. I am reading hard for
Greats, as I must get a first. I hear occasionally
from Miss C, she has asked me to spend a few
days with her at Keswick, as ' Charlie's friend
must be my friend,' she says. She seems rather
an original character, and fond of you in a great
degree. I shall certainly go. The long vacation
has already begun, but I have been staying on to
work. I shall probably go down to Keswick tomorrow
week, but I will report progress before
then. I wish you could be there too, it would be
so pleasant to row together on the lake, and walk
together on the glorious hills. I am prepared to
see something very lovely, for I have heard Keswick
compared to my ain dear Highlands, and it
must be lovely if it can bear comparison with the
hills of Caledonia. Mind you write soon, and for
the present address to St. Mary's, where I shall befor
a week, and even if I do leave before, they will
forward my letters. I hope you won't get mixed
up with any duels. Remember what Montaigne
says — 'H est meme arrive, parmi nous, queene
adresse trop recherches dans Sausage des armes
dont nous nous sermons a la guerre, est revenue

•TidicTile ; parceque, depuis Introduction de la
coutume des combats singular, Fescriiiie a ete
regarded comme la science des querelleurs ou des
poltroiis/ To me duelling has always appeared a
Remnant of the barbarous middle ages ; from which,
indeed, Germany has in many respects only just
emerged, and I would counsel you to leave all the
incensed worthies ' to their own devices. I must
leave off now, as I have still got some reading
to do, and it is already an unearthly hour. With.
a pat for Fang, believe me, dear Charles, your
affectionate friend,

George Douglas. .

Pes. — Are you acting wisely in dropping the
name of Benson without first going through the
necessary legal formalities ? I fear it may cause
you some annoyance."

Charles got this letter about a fortnight after
the Porcania festivities, and had hardly read it
when Lovell came into the room.

Hauberk," said he, "I want you to give me
your services in this stupid duel affair. It appears
I must fight the fellow, though, very unwilling todo
so, or else the students will make it too hot forme
to stay here."

"Tell me the circumstances," said Hauberk.
*' Tell me the offence given, how it happened, and
so on. You wrote me a note about it, but I
scarcely read it, being in a great hurry at the
time, and have since mislaid it."

Well," answered the American, " on the night

of the Porcania, after you left me, and as I was
going home, I chanced to meet a student called
Meyer, a Jew, I believe, who sits next to me in
the lecture room. He had often made himself
unpleasant to me by refusing to let me pass,
shaking the table, and so on ; but as I knew that
a foreigner cannot expect much civility from a
German, I took no notice of his boorishness. On
that night, however, as soon as he saw me coming
he crossed over the road and pushed against me.
I thought he was intoxicated, and passed on. He
followed me, and a little while after pushed against
me again. I remonstrated with him for his rude
behaviour, and he called me ' summer Judge,' a
^ stupid youngster ! ' This is, I have afterwards
learnt, the regular formula amongst German
students to invite a challenge ; and according to
the etiquette amongst students, I ought to have
politely asked him for his card, instead of doing
which, I knocked him slap down on the pavement,
and left him howling there. I certainly expected
a challenge from him on the following morning,
but none came. When I met him afterwards at
the University, about a week after the occurrence,
for I suppose my blow disfigured him so much for
the time that he did not wish to appear till it
was healed, he began insulting me again by pushing
me and so on. I could not knock him down
again as it was in public, and an action like that
would have brought me very low in the estimation
of those present, so acting on the advice of Count
Hattnichviel, I demanded his card, and there it

is. I want you to carry this note to Mm and to
act as my second''

"Might I hear the contents of the notes'
asked Hauberk.

"Certainly' rejoined the American. "It is
written in German, but I will translate it."

Lovell then read as follows : —

Sir,—

Without using any of the absurd formalities
which are usual in these cases, I write to say that
my friend, Mr. Hauberk, the bearer of this note,
is commissioned to receive an apology from you
for the various gross insults you have put on me ;
in case, however, you are not gentlemanly enough
to do so, he will, in my behalf, demand satisfaction,
and arrange details with any person you
choose to name."

Do you think it will do ? " asked Lovell, when
he had finished reading it.

Well enough," said Hauberk ; " but you appear
to have anticipated my consent."

My dear fellow," said the American, " you will
not refuse me I know. You are the only English
speaking man I know about here, and I would
rather have a sort of countryman to help me in
this unpleasant business than any German I
happen to know."

But," said Hauberk, " I know nothing about
duels and duelling, and shall make an awkward
second I assure you. However, as you wish it, I
will carry the note and do my best for you."

"Thank you, my good friend," said Lovell,
grasping his hand. " There is one thing yet. I
should prefer fighting this ruffian with my fists ;
but that, I fear, is inadmissible. If you can manage
with pistols I should prefer that to hacking about
with swords ; I have a horror of steel."

I will, as T said, do my best."

The account of Charles' visit to Mr. Meyer, and
the subsequent events of this heroic quarrel, maybe
best learnt from the following letter, addressed
to his friend Douglas by him —

Jude Grasse, Leipzic.
"My Dear Douglas, —

In my last letter I told you something
about a young American by name of Lovell, who
was with me at the banquet of the gods, and who
carried out the demigod principle by quarrelling
shortly afterwards with a wretched German
student, a Jew, and getting involved in a stupid
duel. He asked me, with some familiarity I must
say, to act as his second, and though I felt rather
offended (the Hauberks received their peerage
patent from Charles I.) at such a request from a
Yankee brewer's son, I conceded, partly out of
friendship and partly to vary the oppressing dulness
of my situation here. I went accordingly to
the lodgings of the redoubtable Meyer, the offending
party, with a note of defiance from Lovell.
I found the hero's abode after much trouble — he
lived on the eighth story of a broken down lodging-house.
I was rather surprised at this, as Herr

Meyer in public appears a wealthy man, and is
constantly to be seen driving about the town,
even taking a carriage with, two horses for the
shortest distances when through a road at all used
as a thoroughfare by people of the town. One
might think this curious arrangement a sign of a
vulgar and mean pretension of a petty desire to
make appearances, of a wish to show off wealth,
which when done by the wealthy is ill-mannered
enough, but when done on false pretences is the
height of bad and vulgar taste, save for the fact
that, as I hear, very many German students
practise the same thing. When I had at last
climbed up the lofty Olympus of the Mars-like
Meyer, I gave my card to a miserable-looking
servant girl, and stated my wish to see him. The
servant went in and took the card, but, as she left
the door open I was able to see what occurred. As
soon as Herr Meyer received the card he turned
very red, and bidding the girl wait, made some
preparations for my reception. He first threw
open his wardrobe door to display his wardrobe,
which, if paid for, was decent enough. He next
laid his purse, which he opened, on the table,
and arranged a few gold pieces in a negligent
way on the table. He then threw on it a few
cards, all from noblemen, Polish counts and
German barons, et hoc genus omne ; the cards, by
the way, were all ornamented with huge impressions
of coronets. And then he bade the maid
let me in.

Herr Meyer, who by the time I had entered

lead thrown himself into an easy chair, rose when
he saw me. He was a short, thick man, with an
enormous body, more resembling a beer barrel
than anything I caa think of. He had a flat,
uninteresting face, on which I counted no less
than seventeen scars, as inflicted by a cavalry
sabre. He was dressed in a greasy sleeping gown,
beneath which I saw his yellow shirt, which was
fastened round his waist by what looked like a
bell-rope (this idea being all the more admissible
l3y the fact that the room lacked this appendage),
black cloth trousers, and a pair of red velvet
slippers. The room was badly and dirtily furnished.
On the unmade bed stood a sloppy tray,
which seemed to have had breakfast on it. The
air was close and unpleasant. I saw not a single
book, except a collection of songs to be sung at the
public meeting. An old sword hung in one corner
of the room and sundry pipes finished the ornamental
part thereof.

The lord and master of these demesnes was
smoking a long German pipe, and the tobacco
smelt most unpleasantly. When I entered he
took his pipe out of his mouth and rolled his
goggle eyes most fiercely. I bowed to him most
politely, and handed him the note. He took it
and read it, and invoked thunderstorms without
end on Lovell and myself. I then addressed him
for the first time, and asked him for his answer.
He bellowed out, obviously endeavouring to terrify
me, in which he signally failed —
' Potz-tausend-Donner-Wetter-Shock-Millionen

iiocli-a-mal.' (A favourite exclamation amongst
our German cousins.) 'Such an impertinence have
I never set mj eyes on jet.'

I remarked —

' You have not jet answered mj questions.'

"'Ko,' answered Herr Meer, rolling his goggle
eyes again with such rapidity that they seemed to
contain boiled mercury, and I feared every minute
to see them spring out of his head. 'No, that have
I not done. Nor will I answer questions which are
so unashamed. Is it that I must apologise to the
man who knocked me down ? *

• If Mr. Lovell requested sou to do so, I
strongly recommend sou to follow his wish, for,
let me tell sou, that neither mj principal nor I
wish to engage in this affair out a school-bo pish
wish for excitement, or to gratify a miserable
vanity on jour part. If there is to be a duel,
it shall be a regular duel ; and if sou engage in
it Job must be prepared to take the full consequences.'


' Take care,' said Herr Meer, ' that sou, who
thus speak to a gentleman, do not become also
engaged in a duel.'

I answered him sharply —

"'Do not waste jour threats on me; if sou
were to dare to treat me as sou have Mr. Lovell I
should simple horsewhip sou till I left as many
scars on jour back as sou carry on jour face.
A duel with sou ! Do sou think, sir, that an
English gentleman would stoop to an ignoble
brawl with an unknown German Jew, with a

miserable — . But excuse me, I am forgetting
myself

' I am glad said Meyer, ' that you do make
this confession.'

He had sidled behind the table when I let go
the torrent of my wrath, but hearing me apologise
thought I was unprepared to take the consequences
of my words, and strutted out, looking the most
comic caricature of an incensed Bombast that I
have ever seen oflP the Gaiety stage.

' Pots caused,' etc., continued he, glaring at
me like an infuriated porpoise. ' You shall hear
from me, sir; I will send to you — '

' Allow me to suggest to you, sir,' answered I,
having quite recovered my coolness, ' that it would
be more polite to a stranger if you would moderate
the tones of your voice, and perhaps you may
know that it is not usual to speak to a stranger
with a covered head. You have a night-cap on.
Might I suggest the politeness of taking it off.
Thank you, that is better. As regards your
threats, I may tell you at once that if you pester
me with any friends of yours, barons or counts
though they may be, I shall have them turned out
of my room by the police, or send them out by the
more expeditious route of the window. You need
not glare at me, sir ; I do not fear that. All I
wish is an answer to that note. My stay in this
room, has been protracted far beyond what is
either agreeable or pleasant, or even healthful
for me.'

Meyer then sat down and wrote a short note.

after hunting wildly in his drawers for the
necessary stationery. He was rather discomfited
by a little incident which occurred during this
search, namely, in turning over the contents of one
of the drawers he brought to light the gnawed
half of a black pudding and a crust of cheap
bread, which, no doubt, had formed his supper on
the previous evening, for this gentleman, dining
at table cVhote of one of the best hotels in the
town, was obliged to exercise a little frugality in
the meals which he partook at home, id es, where
there were no spectators. When the note was
finished he gave it to me, and I departed at once.

'' The note was addressed to another student, who
arranged the duel with me. Pistols were chosen,
after some wrangling on my part, in which I
threatened that Lovell would publicly horsewhip
Meyer if the duel fell through.

I was present at the duel. Lovell really
behaved in a gentlemanly manner. Meyer was as
repulsive as ever. It was fought according to
German principles, that is, the two combatants
were placed back to back in the middle of the
measured space (about twenty yards), and holding
their pistols over their right shoulder, like a
private carrying his gun, walked to the extremity
of the measured space, turned round at the word
of the other seconds and in that instant fired.
Of course, neither bullet took effect. Meyer's
indeed, whizzed past me, but whether this
happened intentionally or by accident I cannot
say. Meters second would not hear of a second

VOL. I. H

trial, and thus this ludicrous piece of antiquated
folly came to an end. There were several
spectators, chiefly students, present, and all they
seemed to look on it as a grave and thoroughly
serious matter. I should never have goodhamour
enough to act in such a farce again, and, but for
the amusement, and the insight into human folly
and monkeys, which this notable duel gave me,
I should regret ever having been present at all.
You need not fear, therefore, that I shall commit
myself again.

With regard to the postcript to your letter
with reference to my change of name, I can only
say that it is no change to drop half one's surname,
and I have always disliked the name of
Benson. It is true that I have not taken the
necessary steps to legalise this change, but nowadays
these are very easily taken, and I am only
debarred therefrom by the expense they entail.
I have addressed this care of Miss Crosthwaite,
Keswick, as I presume you have reached that
haven of rest by now.

"Remember me with all affection to Miss
Crosthwaite, and believe me, dear Douglas, your
affectionate friend,

Charles Haitberz."

A day or two after this letter had been written
and posted, Charles was sitting in his room with
Lovell. After the service which Charles had
rendered him the young American had become
very friendly with him, and Charles, who had

admired the conduct of his principal in the
mighty encounter had received his approaches
-with grace and favour, and as he got more nearly-acquainted
with him found the young American
to be endowed with a very good heart and
generous feelings, and a standard of good taste,
which he thought remarkable in a Surat brewer.
Lovell, on the other hand, admired the dash and
grace of the aristocratic young Englishman, and,
though he detected and partly resented his proud
and patronising spirit, he allowed him this as a
prerogative, and from their mutual admiration a
friendship arose.

Lovell was talking to Charles, and was describing
to him a hard-headed uncle which he had, a
certain White, coffee merchant, in the South of
America, and was about to tell his friend, who was
listening with a weary and bored air, some
anecdote connected with this gentleman, when a
knock was heard at the door, and the landlord of
the house presented himself, followed by his wife
and Lena, the maid of all work, and holding in his
hand a formidable looking bill. He at once
addressed Hauberk, and said —

You there, you Herr Student. Will you be so
kind as to pay me this money, for your rent for
two months, for coffee and lights, and for damage
done to the furniture and bed clothes by your one
peer dog."

"What do you mean? " asked Charles, getting
up angrily, and snatching the paper from the
man's hand. " I thought I had explained to you

that as my funds come in quarterly it is not convenient
for me to pay your bill monthly, or at
irregular intervals. If you will bring it again ina
month's time you shall receive your money as
punctually as heretofore ; although I certainly do
not see how my little dog can have done damage
to the amount of thirty-five shillings, which, at a
rough guess, is more than the value of the furniture
in this room.'^

"Oh! that is it' said the landlord, 'ris it?
Well, Mr. Englishman, listen to me. I wants
my money, because in a month it will be too late
to get it from you, for in a month you will have
left these rooms a month ago."

What do you mean ? " asked Charles. " I have
not the slightest intention of leaving."

Have you not ? " said the landlord, " but if it
should happen that 1 have ? I do not want you
here, Mester Englishman, and I will tell you why.
You tell me your name is Ho — ber, but I find
otherwise. I see on your linen Ben — sohn, and I
think it suspicious. Then you do not buy any
beer of me, and you make love to Lena, my
servant."

What the d — 1 do you mean by that ? " said
Hauberk.

"Yes, you do," said the most wretched of
slaveys. " You have often looked at me, and you
have said ' thou ' to me very often, and you wait
in the passage at nights, and pretend to be playing
with your pig-dog, and you want to speak to me.
But I do not want to make love to any Englishman,

and certainly not with the likes of you.
There now, Herr Student'

Though stung to the quick by the partly unanswerable
insolence of his aggressors, neither
Charles nor Lovell could refrain from smiling at
the idea that any gentleman could or would entertain
amorous ideas towards so miserable and
wretched a female.

The landlord then went on — '' You will therefore
pay me my money and go tomorrow."

I will do nothing of the sort," said Hauberk.

Then we will go for the police, and report that
you are living under an assumed name, and will
not pay your debts," said the landlord's wife.

'^ Why not pay these wretched people and go ? "
said Lovell, in German. '' I have two beds at my
rooms, and you are more than welcome, my dear
fellow, to stay with me as long as ever you like."

''• I cannot pay them," answered Charles, in the
same language, "I have hardly any money."

Oh," said the landlord, " if you have no
money you are one swindler."

Do keep quiet," prayed Lovell, for Charles
had darted forward at the word swindler, with
looks which betokened ill to his landlord. *^ Do
keep quiet ; what can you gain by striking so
abject a wretch as that ? You will only get the
worst in the end. You know the Germans."

You are right," said Charles, restraining himself.
"I will keep quiet. But what are these
vermin doing ? "

At a sign from the landlord, the wife had brought

in a large clothes basket, and taking it from her
the landlord said, " Now, sir, although you have
no money, you have got the books, and as you
won't pay I will take the books ; '' and suiting
his action to his words, he advanced towards the
corner where Charles's large library lay unceremoniously
piled up.

Now to Charles, in his weary exile, these books
had been the greatest comfort of his life, and in
his solitude he had found solace and companionship
amongst them. Dear, dead friends, they spoke to
him whenever he needed a cheering word, and
lightened a life which, without them, would have
been dull as death itself. And Charles was grateful
to them, and loved them even as he loved his live
friends, and when he saw the wretched man with
an expression of vile cupidity on his face, advance
towards where they, mute records of brighter and
happier days, lay, the passion he had subdued till
then overcame him, and uttering a cry of wrath
he darted to prevent the man in his daring.

But the landlord's wife and his soi-disant ladylove
were too quick for lira, and they barred his
passage and clung to him, and kept him at bay.

In a pitiful voice of shame and anger the young
man cried out, '* Lovell, Lovell, for the sake of
God stop him. Let them take anything but them.
They are all the comfort I have left. Lovell, stop
him ! O, heavens ! my Milton, my Shelley ! Cur,
dog, thief ! Tear these vile women from me, and
let me get at him. Ah, Fang ! brave dog. Well
done ! "

For wakened bj the noise and by the disturbing"
movements of the manes hand, a little white dog,
unnoticed till then, was seen to hurl its body
through the air, and with a yelp of defiance,
fasten its teeth in the landlord's hand, which
was covetously clutching a richly-bound gilt-edged
Byron, and shake it like a rat, till the man, with
a cry of pain, dropped the book. Fang then,
uttering several short, sharp barks, rushed at the
man's legs, and he, craven wretch, fled in precipitation,
nor did the dog cease snarling and biting
till the room was cleared of the intruders.

Charles, after lavishing the most profuse caresses
on his terrier, sat down on his bed, apparently
exhausted by the excitement which the scene had
produced, nor did he notice that his friend had
left the room until Lovell returned bringing the
bill receipted.

There," said the American, putting it into his
hand, '' that's settled. I have lent you the money,
you can pay me when your funds come in. Ha !
ha! ha! It was worth six times the amount to
see how that dog behaved. Good Fang ! brave
dog ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Thus was that pride which was to be the bane
of Charles's life, tried and attacked, but grew
stronger in it all.

Poor Charles !

Euphrosyne DE BIENAIMEE.

As soon as Charles had, with, the aid of his friend,
completed the packing of his scanty effects, the
departed in a coach to Lovell's lodgings. On the
way Lovell chanced to remark —

'^ By the way, what did the man mean about
your name, and the different name on the linen ? "

Nothing, nothing," answered Charles, hastily,
'^ Some impertinence, no doubt. I assure you it is
of no importance. I will tell you why some day'*
Then turning the conversation he said, " I wonder
what could have been his reason for turning me out
in this manner. I cannot possibly conceive it myself."


Oh," answered the American, ^* it is not difficult
to understand the lofty motives which
actuated him. Knowing that you had not the
necessary funds to pay his bill, he wished to gain
possession of your books ; probably some student,
lodging in the same house, may have expressed a
wish to purchase themes

You are right there," said Charles ; '^ a German
who lived over me, and who called on me when
I first came, seemed very interested indeed in
them."

Then," added the American, " there is no

'doubt that he told the landlord this, and that
wretched man hoped to make a good bargain with
him for them. But here we are at my palatial
residence and very glad I shall be to house you
and Fang and your belongings for as long as ever
sou will stay."

Thank you," answered Charles. *' It is kind
of you to offer me this hospitality, but be sure I
shall not out-stay my welcome."

Of that there is no fear," answered the American.
" Come in.^'

Lovell, who was amply supplied with money,
lived in a pretty and first-class hotel garni, in one
of the best parts of the town, and occupied three
rooms on the first floor. He had a dining-room,
bedroom, and study; and into this latter be
ushered his guest, after first discharging the coach,
which he paid for himself, and seeing Charles'
luggage brought upstairs.

'' You shall occupy my bedroom," said he, " and
I will have a bed put up here for the time."

After a little remonstrance on the part of
Charles, Lovell rang the bell and ordered this
arrangement to be made, and ordered some tea to
be prepared for their mutual refection. While
they were partaking of it, Charles, who had been
glancing round the well and elegantly furnished
room, found his eyes constantly reverting to a
picture which hung over the door. It was the
picture of a young and beautiful lady, with dark
air and bright eyes, which with her teint spoke
of a Creole strain in the original of the portrait.

Charles admired it so much that he could not help
asking his friend whom it represented.

Do not ask," said Lovell , with a pained accent.
'' Do not ask me. T cannot tell you. It pains me
to think of it."

'^ I am sorry' said Charles, taking the American's
hand " I am sorry if my question has
awakened any unpleasant recollections in your
mind. Be assured it was quite unintentionally
done. I thought it was a fancy portrait."

I would it were," said Lovell, bitterly, " and
that the wretched woman it represents had never
existed. Better far, better far for her if she had
never been born."

What is the matter, friend ! '^ said Charles,
anxiously, for tears had started into Herbert's eyes,
^' Pray do not give way so.'^

Herbert got up and walked to the window to
compose himself, and Charles wondered very much
what was the reason of his friend's strange behaviour.
It seemed odd to him that the son of a
Surat brewer, especially an American, should show
himself possessed of any romance ; that, in his
prejudiced ideas, being an attribute of the-knightly
aristocracy alone. The lady, too, looked
too old to be a flame of Herbert, and he was
lost in curious speculation, when his friend came
back, and taking his hand, spoke as follows —

You have just now seen a sight which must be
strange to you. You have seen, and, I believe,,
wondered at it, tears in the eyes of a man whose
low birth would seem to exclude the possibility, as-you

thinks of Ms possessing higher and deeper
feelings. Nay, do not deny it, friend' for Charles
had made a deprecating motion with his hand.
YoTi would be right in your surmise in a hundred
cases out of a thousand, for men whose minds have
been soiled with trade, and constant contact with
the hardening influence of money-grubbing, have
often not time to nurse those finer sentiments
which are the common heritage of man. You
know what I am, the adopted son of a brewer
of cheap beer, who exercises his trade in New
Tork/^

But," said Charles, '' for all that I am glad to
know you."

For all that," rejoined the American, '' you
are glad to know me, and I am glad to know you
in spite of the inequality of our positions, for I
shrewdly suspect you have been born to better
things and come of good blood, although you
have never confided to me the reason of your being
here."

Charles muttered something about learning
German — insight into political economy — foreign
nations, and Lovell went on —

Well, as I have said, you have seen me affected
by a trivial question, and as my evincing such
emotion must naturally have awakened some
curiosity in your mind as to its cause, I think it
right to tell you the story of that picture ; voix
will, of course, keep my confidence."

"How can you ask me that?" asked Charles.

'' Well, I see you will not violate my secrecy.

and this is my story. That lady, Esther White, is
my mother's sister. They are not, as you may
judge from the fact of their relationship to me and
the portrait of my aunt, Americans by birth, but
both my mother and Esther While, her sister,
are English. I am the only son of my mother,
and came over to America with her and Esther
in my earliest infancy. My mother was a
widow at that time, and I have never heard
much about my father. I gathered from my
mother that he was a lawyer or something of that
sort in London, but neither my mother nor my
aunt would answer my questions about it. But
that is neither here nor there. We were not poor,
and lived very happily together. I grew passionately
devoted to Esther, for my mother often treated
me in a strange manner, as if ashamed of me, and
often in the midst of a pleasant conversation would
push me away suddenly or shake me off her lap
and cry, 'Go, go, boy, hide yourself; I cannot
bear to look at you.' At these times I would goto
Esther, who always comforted me and told me
not to mind, as my mother had known much
trouble and grew strange at times. Esther was
much younger than my mother, and about six
years older than myself. She was a beautiful girl,
and I loved her all the more since I felt repelled
by my mother; in fact, we grew up more like
brother and sister than nephew and aunt. When
I was eleven years old my mother married Mr.
Dixon, and of him I will say nothing, except that
Fie always behaved with great generosity and kindness

to me, and equally so to mamma. But his
marriage was a sad event for me, for it separated
me from Esther, who went into an American
family as governess. I remember crying bitterly
the night she went, which took place about a year
after mother's marriage. Esther at first lived with
us, and the pleasant times seemed not to have been
changed by the marriage. But somehow, after
mother's marriage, she seemed to grow suspicious
of Esther, and treated her as if she feared her.
This could not have arisen from jealousy, because
Mr. Disou was very much attached to mother,
who, in her way, was a greater beauty than her
sister. There seemed to be some secret about
mamma which mamma feared she might reveal.
Anyhow, one night Esther came into my room and
told me she was going away. I begged her with
tears not to leave me, but she went in a day or
two, and took a place somewhere in the South.
She wrote frequently to me, and after about two
years told me she was engaged to be married. She
did marry after a month or two, and her husband
was a Mr. White, a business man, who lived in
the town of X — , in the South of America. She
seemed to me thrown away on him, a hard-headed
man of business, apparently coarse and vulgar,
who cared for nothing but money-making. Esther
did not write to me so often after her marriage,
and I judged from her letters that her life and the
companionship of her husband had changed her
from the bright, lovely girl she used to be. In
such letters, however, as I did receive from hers

she frequently spoke about a Mr. Bartholomew,
her husband's partner, as an agreeable companion,
and an. interesting and romantic character. She
wrote more like her old self when her lovely girl
was born, but I never heard from her after. The
next thing I heard of my dear friend, my darling
Esther, was that she had robbed her husband and
run away from him with Bartholomew."

"Eun away ?" asked Charles.

Yes, cruelly and heartlessly ran away with her
husband's partner, the two taking with them a
large sum of the firm's money. The flight was
so atrociously arranged that there could be no
doubt of a deep and guilty premeditation. I was
about seventeen years old at the time, and studying
at Harvard College, when I heard the news.
My mother wrote to tell me of the appalling shame
that had fallen upon us, and enclosing a letter
from Mr. White relating the details."

Lovell then got up and went to his desk, whence
he took a letter. He then continued — " This is
the letter from Esther's husband, which I will
read to you, and, when you have heard it, tell me
what you think Bartholomew deserves. This is
what my uncle writes —

"X—.

«' Dear Mrs. Dixon, —

It is with the deepest distress, and in
the amidst of an overwhelming affliction, that 1
write to tell you that, on my return from a business
visit to the frown of M — , I found that my wife

tad left me, without either a message or a line to
explain her absence. I learnt from the servants
that she had gone out one afternoon with sundry
luggage, and had told them that she proposed to
go for a short time to stay with a friend, leaving
the house in no one's charge. This, I learned,
happened on the day of my departure. I immediately
took train to the place where she had
stated her intention of going to, but heard from
the lady whom she had said she was about to visit,
that she had never been there at all. I returned
to X — , and went at once to the offices to consult
with my partner, Mr. Ipworth, as to what had
best be done, for as yet I did not for a moment
suspect that she had done anything foolish. I
found Mr. Ipworth in great excitement, and learned
that our junior partner, Mr. Bartholomew, who
had, we thought, gone to New York for the purpose
of investing a large sum of the firm's money,
had never been there at all. Our suspicions were
at once naturally awakened, and from inquiries I
made at Cashville amongst the servants were only
too well founded. It appeared that Bartholomew
had been in the habit of paying clandestine visits
to my wife, and had been, one evening about a
week before my departure, in her company in the
garden. As soon as the rumour of this elopement
for such it turned out to be, got about the town,
we received a clue to their whereabouts from the
chief clerk at the railway booking-office. It appears
that on the day previous to his supposed
departure for New York, Bartholomew had taken

out two first-class tickets for a Mr. Merton and
lady to San Francisco. Having communicated with
the police of that town, in due course we received
substantial evidence that it was thither, and under
that name, that the guilty couple had fled, for a
bag belonging to Bartholomew, but with a label
bearing the name of Merton pasted on it, and an
umbrella belonging to Esther, had been found at
the San Francisco terminus in one of the cars, and
was forwarded to us for verification. We have put
the matter in the hands of an experienced detective,
who has started to San Francisco after them,
and has no doubt of being able to find them.
Apart from the great domestic affliction which has
fallen upon me, both myself and my partner have
been placed in a predicament of great danger to
the firm by the loss of the money which Bartholomew
has taken with him. This robber, this
villain, before his departure committed another act
of heartless cruelty. Having sent his wife off on a
visit to a friend, he used the time in her absence to
sell off all the furniture in the house down to the last
stick, a great part of her wardrobe being included.
Mr. Ipworth has kindly offered her, poor afflicted
woman the use of his house until something is
settled ; but her grief and distress is pitiable to
behold. Bartholomew appears to have been a
wandering vagabond before he came to X — , and
only acquired the sum he had in our house by his
marriage. His wife seems to have loved him very
affectionately, and to have had implicit faith in
him. My grief, and it is deep, for through all my

rough , money-seeking habits, I fondly loved my
pretty Esther, is thrown into the shade by the contemplation
of Mrs. Bartholomew's grief. This is
at present all I have to communicate on this most
unhappy affair, and 1 remain, in deepest affliction,
jour affectionate brother-in-law,

John White."

That is the story," continued Lovell, " and for
base and heartless cruelty is, I should say, unrivalled
in the shameless annals of adultery.
Esther, Esther ! how could you ? " — here he went
up to the picture and burst into tears once more —
** how could you thus desert me? "

"When did this take place? " asked Charles.

About three years ago.^'

'rand has nothing been heard of th<^m since? "

"Nothing, though White and Ipworth and Mr.
Dixon, on behalf of my mother, have spared neither
trouble nor expense, until this day not a word has
been heard about either, not a single clue found.
They may be dead, and — Oh, God ! forgive me for
saying it — I pray that she may be."

"Describe Bartholomew to me," said Charles,
earnestly.

I will," said Lovell, " and I pledge you in
all sincerity before heaven to remember my
description."

"Why?" asked Charles.

That if ever you meet him you may tell me of
it. And now — "

VOL. I. I

"What?"

Wells I will utter no threats but our meeting
shall be one of bitterness to the wretch who has
ruined her. I shall have strength to mark him with
a mark he shall carry to his grave. Listen. He is
a tall man, badly made, and with a stoop. He has
small blue eyes, an ugly mouth, but a fine set of
teeth, and wears a red beard."

Have you ever seen him ? " asked Charles.

*'No; but I have asked so often for his description,
and have so studied each detail of his person
from the accounts, that I form his picture well — a
tall, slinking hang-dog, a cunning treacherous
fox; a — "

Has he any other peculiarity ? ''

^ o ; but stay ! he carries his left shoulder
higher than the right. That is all."

"That is all?"

Yes."

"I will remember," said Charles, rather indifferently
; " and should I happen to see any
person answering to his description, will let you
know."

Lovell looked at him curiously for a moment or
two, and then said, without a trace of his recent
emotion —

Come, let us go on to the balcony and get
some fresh air."

The two young men went on to the balcony
and were standing looking into the street when
they heard a knock at the street door, and looking
down saw two parasols, and beneath the two

parasols two faces. One was a stately elderly
face, which looked grave and serious, but the
other ; ah ! the other. It was a face to gaze onto
feast on, framed in the most bewitching brown
curls, boasting dark blue eyes, fringed with long
silky lashes, a finely chiselled nose, and the
sweetest of red lips, guarding a row of bright
pearls, and finishing ofi" with a dainty little chin ;
it was a face to fall in love with at first sight, and
do desperate deeds for.

Charles thought so too, apparently, for he asked
rather anxiously —

Who are those ladies ? ^'

I do not know," said Lovell ; " I think there
are some French ladies staying in the house and
those are probably they. But come, it is getting*
late. You must get your unpacking done and will
be all the better for a good sleep."

Charles then went to his room, and soon went
to bed.

As soon as he had left the study, Lovell, who
had been sitting on the sofa, got up and said — " I
wonder who he is and what he is."

He then went to his bookcase, and took down a
large aud brightly bound book. It was " Burke's
Peerage"" Turning over to the letter H, he
came to this paragraph under an article on Baron
Hauberk —

Hauberk — the family name of the late Earl of
Brookshire (ext.) of Appleiean Hall, in the county
of Leicestershire. The last Earl was Charles, 7th
Earl of Brookshire, 8th Baron Hauberk ; he died

without issue Nov. 17, 18 — . From him the
barony reverted to Philip, present and 9th Baron
Hauberk, of Carrickfergus, in Ireland."

Ah ! c'est ca is it ? " said Lovell ; " poor
fellow poor fellow's

Charles, meanwhile, had gone to bed, but not to
sleep, for he lay tossing about in a feverish heat.
He could Riot get to sleep, but kept repeating as he
turned over from side to side, '* Who can she be ?
Can I get to know her ? Who can she be ? " Then
he would try to get to sleep, and —

Flocks of sheep, that leisurely pass by,

One after one ; the sound of rain, and bees
Murmuring, the fall of river's, winds and seas,

Smooth fields, white sheets of water and pure sky.

He too had thought of all by turns, but still the
dear mother of fresh thoughts and joyous health
refused to visit him, and so, being a young man of
a sturdy mind he got up, lit a cigarette, and went
to the window.

It was a lovely moonlight night, and what does
not look its best under the silvery touch of the soft
queen of the skies ? The long row of uninteresting
houses on the opposite side of the street sent back,
as if ashamed of their brightness falling on their
beauteous lines, the moon's rays from a hundred
windows, and shone refulgent. All was quite
still, and Charles cast a loving glance at the bright
heavens, and his dark eyes seemed to drink in
their splendour.

To a true poet such as Charles was, and not to a
mere singer of fleshliness, the silent voices of nature

never appeal in vain, and before their pleading the
angry thoughts, the little selfish waywardness,
which occupy men's minds for the most part, are
hushed and still.

The perfect stillness and the splendid beauty of
that summer midnight sky, though revealed to him,
standing in the midst of the haunts of sordid menin
a coarse and noisy town, penetrated to his soul,
and calmed it into perfect harmony with the glory
above.

He was thinking of one moonlit night, when he
paced a seashore walk on the coast of Brittany,
and had watched the light, laid like a silver road
across the waves, and had had tender thoughts of
a dead friend well loved by him, but whom he
might never see again, whose kind hand would
never more touch his, till they met again, where
they would both learn where that bright path led.
Musing thus, he leant on the window sill and
mused on till the rustling of a dress caiio;ht his
ear. He looked up and saw on the balcony of a
window, on the second floor, the lady whose face
he had so admired that evenings.

She was standing looking up at the glorious sky,
in an attitude of almost devotional reverence. Her
head was bare, and her beautiful brown hair was
decorated with a single white rose. She was
dressed in evening dress, and the white satin clung
to her and revealed the beautiful fulness and grace
of her form. On her breast she wore another rose,
a deep red one. A little foot, oh, so dainty I
peeped from beneath her dress. One hand, white

and exquisitely formed, rested on the parapet of
the balcony ; she held the other over her eyes as
if dazzled by the splendour of the moon. Her
head was turned away, so that Charles could not
see her face again, but the attitude, the flowers,
the gleaming' dress, the hand, the foot, the rich
hair, the whole form went to his heart at once.
As a very phantom of delight did she beam on him,
when he thus saw her for the first time.

She was speaking softly, but Charles heard her
words, they were that beautiful line of the poet
who preferred exile to dishonour —

Et qui salt aimer, sait mourir.

Charles could stay no longer, fearing to be seen,
but, casting one long full look on the maiden,
retired.

Et qui sait aimer," said he, for he felt jealous
already. " Whom does she love ? Whom can
she ? Whom shall she love but me ? Listen, ye
Fates, cruel till now, but kind in bringing me here.
I call ye to witness that I will teach that divine
being, that queen of the night, to love me and be
mine ! "

Charles was rather impetuous, certainly, in proposing
definite arrangements for a matrimonial
contract between himself and a lady unknown.

0, butchers book ! 0, baker's bill ! what idylls
have ye not ruthlessly destroyed P ^Vhat airy
breams of fair romance, spun by those light of
heart and light, alas, of pocket, have ye not cruelly
destroyed ?

As soon as Charles met Lovell next dominos he
asked him to kindly ascertain who the ladies were
"who were staying in the house.

Lovell called the servant girl, who told them
that the ladies were a French baroness and her
daughter. What their name was she did not
know, but had a card of theirs. She gave this to
Lovell, who handed it to Charles. The card bore
these names : —

La Baroness de Biexaimez.

MdLLE. EuPHEOSTXE de BlEXAIiTEi.

But," added the servant, grinning, " it is no
good for either of the young masters to think of
making love to them, for they have gone''

'* Gone ! '^ cried Charles.

"Aye, gone. They went by the first train to
Paris this morning ; and this is what they gave
me."

"Without casting a glance at the two golden
pieces which the maid held out in much glee to
show him, Charles rushed from the room. He
came back soon, however, and going up to Lovell,
said mournfully —

"I am marked for misfortune; I am a child of
the night. Can you, will you, be my friend ? "

"I've been it all along, you know," said the
American.

THE TWO FRIENDS.

Charles found himself so comfortable in his new
quarters, and found, too, such congenial companionship
in the young American, that he made
arrangements to stay on, at the Hotel garni, permanently.
He took a bedroom on the same floor
as Lovell, and used his study to work in. And he
did work too, with more zeal and unflagging
application than he thought himself capable of.
The glance he had taken at the queenly Euphrosyne
had shown him too, the utter misery and uncertainty
of his position. One year, of the two years
in which he could devote himself to study, had
nearly passed, and had been occupied in idle and
vain objects and pathetical indifference to the
future, in moaning over the bright fortune he had
lost, and in little else.

Nothing so stimulates the energies of a young
man than the secret love he entertains towards
some lady, who by her fortune and beauty seems
far removed from him, and Charles, to whom, until
that moonlight night, there had been no object,
no hope in life, now felt that there was something
to work for, something to win. Distant, very
distant, lay the guerdon, hopeless almost its attainment.
But when Charles had made up his
mind he could do a thing, for all his dreamy

sentimental nature. Sometimes, indeed, he would
laugh at himself, that he, a pauper, an object of
benevolence with no profession, and no hope of
honourable employment, should have set his heart
on winning a young lady above him in wealth and
rank, so beautiful that she might choose among a
hundred suitors, whom he had never seen but once,
and of whom he knew nothing, not even her abode.
It was a hopeless struggle in all sooth.

However, he thought otherwise, and set about
with great industry to make himself worthier of
her he loved ; working day and night, often spending
sixteen hours of the twenty-four over his
books. Relapses came now and then, when he
would waste a whole evening over the composition
of a sonnet to his mistress's eyebrows, but he soon
shook this dream off, and set himself to his task
again.

Lovell, who had grown very much attached to
his friend, assisted him in his studies, and helped
him in every possible way, and, to tell the truth,
did a good deal for him secretly; namely, by
arranging with the people of the Hotel to take a
certain percentage off Charles' bill and put it onto
his. He did this with perfect taste, and would
say to the people —

It is not fair that we should pay the same
prices for our board. My friend eats hardly anything,
while I, ha ! ha ! eat enough for two men,
so just you charge him half, and make me pay the
rest."

The landlord would laugh and agree, fully believing

the statement, and not caring who paid as
long as lie got the money.

The two friends were different in nature ;
Charles, who was two years Herbert's senior, was
cold, proud, and reserved, with an air of secret
melancholy about him, which marked him as a
poet at once. Herbert was open, frank, and
winning, at i^eace with all men, and thoroughly
enjoying the good things of this life, and laughing
at the bad. He had a merry voice, and a
ringing laugh, and cared nothing for rank or
station ; a comic chimney-sweep, or a facetious
crossing-sweeper was as agreeable a companion to
him as a belted earl, and he would often shock
his more prejudiced companion by stopping in
their walks abroad, to bandy a little repartee with
some jovial Teuton costermonger or apple-woman.
Charles was hlase or indifferent, spoke but rarely,
and never laughed, but would listen to the merry
jokes of his companions, with a shadowy smile and
an absent air.

In appearance, however, the young men did not
differ so much as in temperament. They were
both tall, and had both those finely-shaped hands
and feet, which are the remaining distinctions of
aristocrats. Charles had dark hair and fiery black
eyes, Herbert's hair was brown and curly, and his
eyes were blue ; Charles was pale and thin,
Herbert rosy and plump ; Charles was always
dressed in dark cloth, while the republican
affected colours, and cared nothing for fashion.

Both had fine mouths, determined chins,, and
strong beautiful teeth.

At a distance, indeed, seeing them come alongside
by side, one thought that one could detect a
resemblance in figure and general appearance,
but on seeing them closer the worn world-weary
expression of the one, and the fresh and hearty demeanour
of the other, soon dispelled this idea.

They passed two months together thus, rejoicing
in each other's company, attending lectures in
the morning, walking in the afternoon, and reading
at night.

Nothing notable occurred to either of them in
this house, except one incident, which, though
trifling, made an impression on Lovell. One
evening he had left his "Burke's Peerage" lying on
the table. Coming into the room he saw Charles,
who was bending over it, suddenly snatch up a
pen and write a few words on the page of the book,
and dash his fist on the table.

When Herbert went to put the book away, he
saw that it was open at the article about the
Hauberk family, and that after the words
Charles, 7th Earl of Brookshire and 8th Baron
Hauberk, died without issue'' the young man had
written these words, " A cruel, a cursed lie'

Poor fellow, poor fellow," said the brewer's
son, as he placed the ponderous record in its place
on the shelf. "Poor fellow ! "

Next day " Burgess Peerage " was missing, and
the cook maid had plenty of paper to light her

morning fire. One leaf, however, a disfigured
blotted one, lap safely locked up in Herbert's
drawer.

Dorothy hadn't forgotten her bright-eyed boy all
this time, and every week did Charles receive some
kindly letter from her, motherly, and yet in
Dorothy's own peculiar style, with a little advice
here, a little quaint scolding there, but with consolation
everywhere.

It was towards the end of October, when the
leaves were crispin and sere, that Charles got the
following letter : —

Laburnum Cottage,

'' Keswick.

My Dear Charles,

Glad to hear of work and early rising,
also defeat of little white enemy. I didn't mean
poor Fang, but the little white thing between
your teeth, the cigarette, which grieves me to
think of, weakening a nerve never too strong.
Can't write much to-day as I have twelve letters to
write, all with this weary pen of mine. One young
cousin wants to emigrate, but says he won't do it
without my consent, which means £ s. d.

"Distressing news from London; my sister
Sabine has got into her head that a wretched,
penniless clergyman wants to marry her, and is.
making herself quite unhappy about him. His
name is Higgins, or Higginbotham, but I am not
sure. It was broken off about three months ago,.
but he has been at her again. I don't know what

will happen. She talked of marrying him in her
last letter. He is more than twenty years younger
than she , so it is rather an unequal match.

Glad Lovell is so nice, though I don't like
Americans, or any foreigners, as a rule. They've
got such wrong notions about Church and State,
sou know, and don't like order.

'^ Sorry, oh ! so sorry about change of name.
Benson is quite as good a man as Hauberk, and
the latter only put you out of your place. Bless
the boy. Your trusty old woman, who talks of
her ' gown.'

Dorothy.

"Pes. — A cheque for twenty pound enclosed,
never mind from whom; it will do for books.
Keep away from the German students, beasts
(said in a whisper). I don't want to hear a word
about them. I have a strong feeling about
touching pitch. 'Come out from among them
and be ye separate, saith the Lord.' No, I know
it is lonely for your heart, but it must be borne,
and can be borne, with God's blessing.

Charles felt so very vexed at Dorothy's very
wise remarks about the name that he put up
the cheque in an envelope, and sent it back,
saying he did not want it.

Poor fellow's said the brewer's son. " Poor
fellow " say we.

Sabine was a very different person from Dorothy,
in appearance as well as character.

She was tall and thin, and wore a little row of
false curls as a front. She had small eyes, and a
sulky mouth, and had an air of asperity and a
vinegary expression. She dressed in youthful
fashion, and people say she rouged, which is not
improbable. Ber hands were covered with rings,
and she wore little black leather mittens on her
wrists. Although much younger than her sister,
she did not look half so fresh or hearty, and
seeing them both together one might have put
Sabine down to be the elder. Her character was
vain, jealous and suspicious, and yet very simple.
She wanted to many, because she thought it
would raise her position above that of Dorothy, of
whom she was jealous. She was not generous,
but retained her frugal northern habits because
they had become a second nature, and saved money
with energy.

She was very religious, as the world calls it, and
most exact in her observance of Sundays and
churchly holy days. Naturally conservative, she
was also intolerant of any reforms or changes, and
very bigoted in all her notions.

This lady lived, as before mentioned, in Grosvenor
Gardens, London, W. Her establishment consisted
of a maid, a cook, and page-boy. The page was
more for show than for work, and this suited his
natural disposition to a nicety. Pimmins, for such
was his patronymic, was not fond of work, but
occupied his leisure, which was abundant, in sucking

the end of this thumbs, or in taking a survey
of the gardens from the front door, making loud
criticisms on the dress or equipage of the passers-bye
remarking now and then to some whiskered
swell who was lounging by ^' You've gotten on this
time, chicken, howell you get 'em off again ? Air
they sewed on'' Or asking some private coachman
whether his brougham (" loose-box " Pimmins
called it) didn't want a bit of freshening up with
a wet sponge and soda, and whether his horse had
had breakfast the Sunday before last, or whether
he didn't think that the quadruped's high action
would graze the bark off its knees against its fore-grinders,
and so on.

One morning Pimmins was standing on his doorstep,
engaged in uttering defiant challenges to
mortal combat to a pallid butcher-boy, asking him
to lay down a '' tanner," and averring that he
would engage to produce nasal haemorrhage for the
said coin, and the butcher was retorting that he
had better swallow his buttons, and get a bit fatter
before he insulted a gentleman, when a clerically-dressed
person stopped this choice verbal encounter
by knocking at the doors and asking Pimmins if
Miss Crosthwaite was at home.

"Oh, no! not at all," said Pimmins. "She
ain't be a-watching for you ever since this morning,
not at all neither' and winked his left eye
at the parson.

Kindly cease your impertinence," said the Ev.
Bartlemy Hiram, " and take my card up and say
that I wish to speak to her at once."

Pimmins took the card and screwing a halfpenny
into his eye, pretended to scrutinize it very
carefully, much as a banker will scrutinize a banknote
before changing it, first examining the back,
then holding it up to the light, and so on.

It's only a soup-ticket, Army," shouted the
butcher-boy, and darted away.

"So it saint the hold name," said Pimmins,
*' something in the cut-round-the-corner-haley-bi
sway, air you ? ^'

What the devil do you mean ? " asked the
pious gentleman, in an unlamblike manner.

"Well, last time it was the Rev. Bartlemy
Hiram, out, and to-day it's Tread-mill Walker
Bartholomew, aunt it ? See there ! "

The reverend gentleman glanced at the card
which the page held out, and, with a pious oath,
snatched it from him. " Curses on your fooling,
that's the wrong card, a friend gave it to me.
This is mine."

Which your anger is unnecessary, and spiles
the digestion said Pimmins^ as he escorted him
upstairs.

"Yes, yes," said the Rev. Hiram, " I have been
put out this morning. Don't mention it to anyone,
my lad, and here's half a sovereign for you."

He found Sabine sitting at a table writing, and
going up softly behind her, put his hands over her
eyes and said, " Boh ! "

The chaste virgin screamed, as she was bound
to, and tried to remove his hands.

Not till you guess who it is," said Bartlemy.

"Oh," said Sabine, "is it Pipcote, or Sliootle-
berry, or Sarah Lodgings, or " —

"No,-" said Bartlemy, releasing his hold, "it's
your own Bartie-partie/'

Oh ! go away, you horrid man. I don't want
you," said Sabine. " I don't want to see you."

"Not see your own Bartie ? " said Bartlemy.
*' Oh, cruel, cruel ! "

"No, it's you that are cruel. Have you calledon
me once this week, sir ? Have you not left me
without a word, without a line ? Oh, Bartie,
Bartie."

'' My dear Sabine," said the clergyman, sitting
down, " you must remember my official duties.
The lambs that have to be gently driven to the
fold, the venerable ewes that have to be kept
there, the gentle pressure which has to be exerted
to eject the vicious goats and rams from that fold
of St. Olphage's, in the pleasant parish of Wives
Within in the County of Kent, England,
Europe."

True, true," said Sabine, casting her eyes upto
the ceiling, " true. And have you driven many
lambs into jour fold this week, my reverend sir ? "

Few, few," said the clergyman, humbly ;
"they wouldn't go, and that's the truth. They
prefer to wander in pleasant pastures of their own
seeking, and to browse the unorthodox cowslip.
But what's that?"

An explosion of merriment had been heard outside
the door, and the clergyman, advancing on

VOL. I. K

tiptoe "by a circuitous route, threw it wide open intime
to see the last buttons of Pimmins the page,
disappearing round a corner of the passage.
What is it, dear ? " said Sabine.
An instance in point, my dear madam," said
the clergyman shaking his head mournfully, and
half closing his eyes. ^' A lamb, a tender lamb,
that prefers to gambol and carol outside the fold."
"What do you mean?" asked Sabine, impatiently.


^' It's your page, madam, your little page-boy,"
returned the clergyman, '' eavesdropping, madam,
listening, and turning my pious words to scorn."
You don't mean Valentine ? " said Sabine.
Yes, I mean Valentine, if such be the name
which this unhappy lamb's godfathers and godmother
bestowed on him in his baptism, I decidedly
mean Valentine."

What a bad boy ! " said Sabine.
"We will not say 'bad,' madam," piously returned
the reverend gentleman , " but temporarily
uncurbed. In fact," said he, dropping his voice,
and taking up a different, more natural manner,
*' if 1 may advise you, dismiss him at once.'^

Why be is useful enough, and doesn't get too
much wages," said Sabine.

"Never mind that," said the clergyman; " never
mind such a paltry consideration as the amount of
emolument which his place brings him. Only
think Sabine, how unpleasant it is to have a spy
and eavesdropper in the house. Can it be, do you
think, that your sister, your poor misguided sister

of whom you have told me so much, has bribed
this unhappy boy to listen to our conversations,
and report them to her ? '^

I don't know' said Sabine ; " it's quite
possible. Dorothy was always jealous of me. Yes,
it's more than possible."

Then disarm her by dismissing this lad, let
him gambol and carol in his playful lamb-like
way in another sphere," said Bartlemy persuasively.


1 think I will," said Sabine. " Yes, I'm sure
I will ; he shall go tomorrow."

No, not tomorrow," said Bartlemy ; '^ not tomorrow,
but say in a week or a month. I should
not like him to think me the cause of his forfeiting
so excellent a place, though I have had to warn
you of his conduct. Watch him, and catch him in
some delinquency, and then dismiss him at once."

^'Yery well," said the lamb, who had been
listening to this conversation through the keyhole
with a face of disgust. " That's your game,
is it ! Frightened of my splitting about the card,
eh ? Well, Mr. Soapsuds," apostrophising the Rev.
Bartlemy Hiram, " see if I don't pay you out for
this."

I wonder," continued he, as he sleepily
descended the stairs, " I wonder what that there
other name were. I can't remember — surely Mill-chalked,
or something like that. I never could remember
things."

But I'll not forget you, Mr. Parson," said
Master Yalentine Pimmins, as he stood on the

doorstep. "Why there goes the butcher bos
again. Blowed if I don't let him have something
too," and so saying he darted out, and " went for "
the unhappy purveyor.

Meanwhile the Reverend Bartlemy was urging
his suit on his beloved with all the glib eloquence
he possessed.

^'By marrying me," he said, "you will be
'brought at once into daily contact with the Holy
Church, and your religion, which, allow me to
remark, is one of your chief attractions for me,
will, so to speak, be polished up, and rendered
more shiny, more shining, I mean. You will
preside at our tea meeting, cut the cake for the
parish children, butter muffins for them, give out
tea, read prayers, and, in short, do whatever you
like."

Whether this bright picture of moral and
ecclesiastical felicity was too tempting for Sabine
or not is a matter of doubt, but certain it is that
she interrupted the holy man by laying her hand
on his shoulder and bursting into one tear.

'' Oh Bartie, Bartie ! " said she, " how could you
be so greedy about the money-settlements'

^^I greedy?" asked the Rev. Bartlemy with a
tone of deep affliction. " I greedy? Oh Sabine !
Sabine! how can you say that? My lawyer,
madam, and not I. Mr. Isaac Solomonss, of the
City."

Acting by your directions," said Sabine.

Cruel again," said the parson. " No, if Mr.
Isaac Solomonss, lawyer, of the city of London,

Eg., close to think that it was all to your advantage
to marry a yonug, hem ! not-unhandsome,
hem ! and active servant of the Church, and that
those advantages combined in one man were not
to be coldly weighed and appraised by worldly men,
I must say that Mr. Isaac Solomonss showed that
good sense which has made him the distinguished
ornament of his profession which he is. Again,
why could you not trust me ? I am simple in my
habits. My stipend is enough to maintain me and
to allow me to send a quarterly remittance to a
beloved though aged and imbecile parent. What
little money you may have, about which, by the
way, I know nothing, would help me to exercise
the charity which so adorns a clergyman

then this letter," said Sabine, taking one
out of her desk ; '^ this letter, which you wrote tome
about two months ago. These lines."

Head them, my dear," said Bartlemy.

Yery well ; these lines," and Sabine read —

' You needn't think Tm over keen to marry
you. There are plenty of young ladies who would
be glad to have me any hour, day, or week, and
so if you want to smash up this engagement,
smash ! '

"Oh Bartlemy, Bartlemy ! " said Sabine, "how
could you write thus to me ? ''

"A forgery, madam," said the worthy man
briskly. " A mere forgery. Never wrote that
letter at all. Look at the postmark, Wykeham-within.
Was never there at all at that date.

Was tending a previously-mentioned beloved but
aged and imbecile parent, down Clapham way,
at the time. Poor Sabine, could I verity so to
you?"

Who v^rould take the trouble to forge a letter
like this ? " asked Sabine.

"Who, indeed!" retorted Bartlemy. "Who
but those who wish to break those tender ties,
those sweet ligaments, which bind my bleeding
heart to your balmy bosom? Who, indeed?
There, I see you are convinced. Give me the letter
and I'll see that steps are taken to overtake the
offenders."

Well, you are right, dear Bartie ; forgive me."

ril see about forgiving you by and bye. When
may I call again ? "

Whenever you like, dearest."

One little kiss, Sabine, before I go."

"There, pet."

After these little endearments Sabine rang the
bell for Valentine to show the gentleman, out.
But the page evidently thought that the gentleman
could find his way downstairs without a guide and
came not.

Valentine had been quite successful in his encounter
with the butcher's emissary, and was
found by Bartlemy, who had been forced to comedown
alone, resting on his laurels and the doorstep,
cracking nuts and spitting the shells at his
vanquished foe, who was receiving some orders from
the cook down the area.

Come, my lad," said Bartlemy, " let me pass."

Oh ! it's you is it ? " said Yalentine, eyeing him
viciously.

Yes it is, come, let me pass."

I'd let you pass to somewhere as it's warm,'^
said Ya^-entine. " I'd not have you in the house
if I was someone. Now, then, who are you a
shoving-of ? Can't yer 9 "

Bartlemy pushed by him and went his way down
the street, and Pimmins revenged himself by
throwing a shower of nutshells after him, crying —

UUo, Milwaukee, you sir, I say, Milwaukee.
What's your name ! Go on with yer," and only
stopped when the reverend gentleman was out of
sight.

Yalentine then went upstairs and seeking audience
with his mistress, said —

'' I've come to give warning, ma'am. I can't
stand the atmosphere of this neighbourhood.
It's too bracing, indeed it is. It stiffen me up
so.'^

'well, Yalentine," said Sabine, 'Tm sorry to
hear this."

"No you're not, ma'am," said Yalentine, "I
knows, and look here — when yon parson comes
again, give him this half-sovereign back which he
giv me, and say I wouldn't touch it no-hows. Let
him keep it for the family wash. I'm o£E tomes.

Simmons' LODGER.

Yalentine, true to his word, left Grosvenor
Gardens next day, taking with him such small
belongings as he had. He did not leave however,
until he had had an opportunity of taking a partial
revenge on his ecclesiastical foe. He waited for
him, and when he saw him comings snatched up
his bundle, and charging, bull fashion, with his
head between his legs, upset the Rev. Bartlemy
Hiram into the road. Having further relieved his
feelings by kicking that gentleman's new guinea
our-own-make hat into the gutter, he shouldered
his bundle, and shaking off the dust of his feet on
Miss Crosthwaite's abode, he went his way.

This led him in course of time to the East of
London, and he plodded on till he reached a small
house, in a miserable street leading off from
Thames Street, nearly opposite the Billingsgate
Market, that repository of stale fish and choice
epithets. Knocking at the door of this house in
the manner of a free and independent householder,
he was admitted by an old woman.

Well, granny," cried he, *' Tve turned up again,
as dummy and first-rate as ever, ^^ou see."

Aye, aye," said the old woman, " it's you
Jack is it, come in, your mother's upstairs.'^

Be it here mentioned that Valentine was only a

name bestowed on the page by Miss Sabine, wbo
tonight it sounded more imposing and Western
defied to coin a word, than the vulgar patronymic
of Jack. However, as this young man has
been introduced as Valentine, Valentine he may
remain.

The ci-devant page mounted the tumbling old
staircase with alacrity and pushing open a door
on the first landing, rushed into the room, crying —

"Alio, mother here's a valentine as you didn't
expect, I'll bet."

Why, Val,'^ said a kind, motlierlj^-looking
woman, "what is the matter, left your place
again ? "

Place ? " said Valentine, contemptuously,
place, you don't call that spot a place. I wouldn't
have stayed in that situation for nothing as you
could mention,"

Why, I thought you liked it ; thought it a
swell place."

Swell, don't give me such swells," said Valentine,
" if that's swell, all make-up show. Not a
single silver spoon in the basket, and scale, oh!
you can't tell. Bother the swells and the situation.
What's the news ? "

I've got a lodger, Val."

A which ? " asked Valentine.

A lodger, a female lodger."

Is she beautiful ? " asked the sentimental
page.

Never mind, young inference. But she don't
pay, no hows."
/

Oh, a puffing lot," said Yah.

Well, I don't know, she looks like a lady, and
brought some good clothes here. But they've all
gone."

Up the spout," put in the page.

Yare right. She hasn't paid for a week or
two, for vittles and nowt."

"Turn her out," suggested Valentine.

I hardly like to do that," said the woman.
She looks so wretched, I'll try her a little longer,
any ways.'^

That was always yair way, mother," said
Master Pimmins. " Yare too soft-hearted and
kind. You bet, she's one of the swell mob down
on her luck."

'* I don't think so." said the woman. " She
looks too like a lady, she's done nothing but cry
ever since she came, and never been out once*"

Blow her," said Valentine, unceremoniously,
I want some tea, I'll take a look at her afterwards."


Mrs. Pimmins set about to prepare some food
for her son, who in the meanwhile amused himself
by relating to his aged grandmother the encounter
he had had with a real live parson, and the old
lady, who was rather of an unorthodox disestablishing
turn of mind, testified her appreciation of
the feat by bursting into shrill screams of imbecile
laughter.

As soon as the young gentleman had taken his
tea, his mother said —

Well, Val, if you want to see our lodger, gp

upstairs to the second floor, and ask her what
sheM like for supper."

Oh' said Valentine, '* a weal cutlet or so, or a
bit of venison with red jam, perhaps — or a rum
omelette, and I bet it will be a rum 'un, the
omelette she gets sere."

With this remark, which seemed to amuse him
vastly, he went upstairs and knocked at the door
of the lodger's room. It was not exactly what
one would call a respectful or a deferential
knock, but a sort of knock which seemed to say,
Come, I know yer, it's no good yer trying any
games on me, I'm up to yer."

What deep meaning a knock can convey. Bless
you, knocks differ as much as the knockers. There
is the gentle, timid knock of the beggar or suitor,
the brisk knock of your man of business, the loud
knock of your fostering boon companion, who
bursts into your room before you have had time
to answer it, then there's the cautious knock of
your doctor, or the loud blustering knock of your
creditor, who means business this time.

Whatever meaning Valentine's knock conveyed
to the occupant of the room cannot be definitely
stated, but anyhow it remained unanswered for a
long time. At last a timid voice bade him come in.

Valentine had prepared himself to see some
flash flaunting girl, some vulgar hussy of the
town, with which, as a thorough town-made lad,
he was well acquainted. But all his independent
and aggressive manner vanished when he found
himself standing before his mother's lodger.

Shee was a tall, well-made woman, with a most
beautiful face and figure. Her dress of black velvet
was in perfect harmony with her long black
hair, loose on her back, and her flashing black
'eyes and the brunette tint of her skin. Her dress
fitted close, and round her waist was a silver belt ;
this and a gold locket round her neck were the
only ornaments she wore.

She looked miserably unhappy, and her fine
eyes bore traces, too palpable, of recent tears. The
room was wretched in every particular. A broken-down
tressel bed stood in one corner, a pitcher of
water in another, and a miserable table in the
middle. A triangular looking-glass, nailed to the
wall, and one or two toilet articles completed
the furniture.

All Yalentine's assertiveness and forward
manner deserted him as he beheld the afflicted
lady, and he said, with as much respect as if he
had been addressing a duchess —

If you please, madam, mother wants to know
what you would like for supper, and if there's anything
I can do for you ? Ism Valentine, her son."

"No, boy,^^ said the lady kindly; "nobody can
do much for me now ; tell mother that I should
like a cup of tea in about half-author, if she will
kindly make uncertainly,

madame' said Valentine, making
his best bow and backing out of the room.

Well," said he, " she is a swell and no mistake,
such a nice lady too. Poor thing — Now
then, where are you a coming of ? "

This last remark, or rather question, was
addressed to a stranger who pushed up against
the hoy at the turning of the dark stairs. The
stranger pushed by him and went upstairs, and
Valentine heard him knock at the lady's door.

At any other time the boy would have been
prompted by his natural curiosity to follow and
listen, but a truly chivalrous desire to serve the
distressed lady made him go on his errand and
tell his mother about her lodger's wishes.

The lodger, the afflicted lady, was Esther White,
and her visitor Milwaukee Bartholomew, alias the
Reverend Bartlemy Hiram.

Wicked, cruel, and selfish hypocrite that he was
even he started slightly at beholding Esther in
all her misery. This did not last long, however,
for he soon regained his usual demeanour; and,
entering the room, said, as he closed the door
behind him —

'' I have come, Esther."

'' So I see'd said Esther contemptuously.

So you see, my dear, and so you shall see for
the last time."

What do you mean ? ■"

What I say, that I leave you to-night for
good. You must shift for yourself now."

"Are you mad, Bartholomew ? "

'not exactly; but come, let us to business.
You wrote to me, saying that you wished to seeme.
I presume, from what has passed between
us since we last met, that you have not called me
for the mere pleasure of looking at me, but wish

for some help or advice. For both of which
purposes," said he, drawing out a heavy gold
watch, " I am at your service for a quarter of an
hour. Then I must go, so say all that you have
to say at once."

'' I have not called you hither for either help or
advice, but to ask a simple act of justice of you ;
we are — "

^''Oh, you needn't go on if that's what you
want to say," said Hiram — ''

But I will go on ; we are both free now, as you
know and have known. My former husband has
recently married again, after divorcing me, and
your wife is dead, heart-broken they say. Do me
the simple act of justice — '^

Of marrying you, I presume ? '^ said Hiram.

Yes."

The reverend gentleman seemed to be in doubt
as to how he should answer, for he walked up and
down the rv)om in silence for a minute or two. At
last he stopped, and drawing out a cigarette-case,
lit a cigarette, and said —

No, Esther, it will not do. I cannot do it.-*^

'' Do not say so. 0, Bartholomew ! do not say
so. I know your reason, you have grown tired of
nie. You no longer love, like me."

That is not so, Esther. If I was free I would
do so, but you see I am — well, I may as well tell
the truth — I am married."

'' Married ! " shrieked Esther.

Yes, my dear, married, a month or two ago.
We never agreed well together, although our first

year passed pleasantly enough until I lost — confound
my luck ! — the dollars at Monaco. I could
live with you as long as I had the dollars, but
when they went I went'

'' Aid what you tell me is true ? "

Yes, Esther'

"Then perdition take you, vile, selfish monster!
O, heavens ! was it for a lying, slimy toad like
that, that I left my husband, my daughter, and
my home P "

Why — certainly' said Bartholomew.

Wretch, begone ! Go to the wretched woman
you have deceived ; go and be happy with her till
she finds 3'ou out."

All this is, I believe, perfectly correct and
according to all precedent, and I do not at all
object to it ; but might I suggest, Esther — or, if
you don't like that name. Miss Lovell — that it
would be advisable to speak a little less louder

I will speak as I like. If you do not go I
will scream and rouse the neighbours, and have
you dragged outs

made no answer, but hummed to
a tune of his own composition the words —

When lovely woman stoops to folly,
And learns too late that men betray,

What art can soothe her melancholy ?
What charm can wipe her tears away ?

Go," cried Esther, " go ; I cannot endure to
breathe the air you stand in — it is tainted, foul,
polluted. Will you go ? I want nothing of you.
If you had married me '■* —

But you see I didn't, and don't —

The only art her guilt to cover,"

put in Bartlemy.

If sou had married me I should have left you
that self-same day, and striven to forget you in
all your repulsiveness, and to learn to think of
you as an unclean nightmare."

'' To hide her shame from every optic' continued
Bartlemy.

"But now," cried Esther, waxing mad with
furj^, " I will live for another purpose ; I will
live"—

"To give repentance to her lover — I don't think
you will, all the same," put in Bartlemy.

"I will live to punish you, to drag you in the
mud, to brand you ; to make you appear in public
the filthy wretch that you are ! Here," said she,
snatching her locket from her neck and opening
it, '' by the head of this my child, who once and
only once stepped in between me and yonder
ghoul, I pledge myself " —

To wring his buz-zum, and to — die."

Insolent, treacherous monster, take that ! "
and she struck him with all her force on his
scarred cheek.

Abject wretch that he was, he had never appeared
so base and spiritless, as crouching in
miserable fear lest the blow should be repeated,
holding up his manly, chivalrous arm, to ward
off a second blow from a feeble and sick woman's
hand, then grovelling on the floor to pick up his

cigarette which, he thought, helped him to carry
off his interview with a rakish degage air.

''^ Don't do it again, Esther, don't; or T might
get angry, you knows

Will you go ? "

"All right, Esther, you know. Pm going.
Stow then— don't ! "

This last exclamation arose from seeing her
raise her hand to clasp her locket round her throat.

Coward ! vile, miserable coward, begone ! '^

'' I thought, Esther, you might want a little '^ —

"Money ! did you? Well, listen, then. I
would rather put my naked hand into a brazier
of burning ^' —

''Oh ! I wasn't going to offer you any. I was
merely going to say that I couldn't give you any
if you did, because I haven't any to spare. You
canst be in want, though, Esther, with that locket
and zone. Good-bye, Esther."

Begone ! "

And so ended their interview.

Although he had slunk out of the room like a
whipped cur, he soon regained his free and easy
manner when he had turned his back on the
woman he had wronged, and, indeed, so far recovered
his natural bravery as to mutter on the
landing, as he buttoned up his overcoat —

Yes, it's a good thing for her she didn't try it
again ; I guess I'd have let her have it if she had. I
thought of kicking her slyly afterwards, and I'm
sorry I didn't."

"Air 3'ou?" said a small voice behind him,

VOL. I. L

^' Air you sorry you didn't kick her ? Oh, you're
a mighty hero of a British grenadier, you air!
Kick a woman, too ! ^'

The Rev. Bartlemy Hiram looked behind and
recognized Valentine, the page.

'soh, it's you, is it?" said he. "Well, keep
quiet, and hold your noise, or I'll make you."

What ! " cried Valentine, " it's you, is it ? Well,
I'm blessed ! The parson, too ! What are you
doing here ? Come, young man, take yourself off,
this is my property, this is ! What do you want ?
You're trespassing here. Go on ! Make me 'old
me noise, will you ? "

With these and similar taunts did Valentine
pursue the man of peace down the stairs, through
the landing, and out of the door.

The Eev. Bartlemy Hiram was prudent enough
to take no notice, and walked quietly on. This so
exasperated Valentine, who really felt prepared to
enirao'e in a hand-to-hand encounter with his
opponent, that he literally danced on the doorstep
with rage, and kept on shouting —

Now then. Broadcloth ! Mill-chalked ! come
on ! I'm game. Come on ; do now ! You'll make
me hold my noise, will you? " and so on, till the
rev. gentleman was out of sight.

A small crowd of boys, who had been delighted
spectators of the scene, cried out to Valentine —

"What's the game?"

Oh, my lads," answered the page with dignity,
he's a bunker. Wanted to fight 'im for a tanner,
and he wouldn't come on. Said as 'ow he 'ad to

go 'one to toast the muffins for his granny. Yah !
Milk-chalked ! '^

'' 'Uriah. ! '^ cried the urchins, " let's go and
pelt 'im."

And off they rushed to show their appreciation
of the clergyman's combative qualities by sending
a perfect feu de joie of stale fish, cabbage stalks,
and such garbage as a London gutter usually
marks for its own, after the object of their' desecration.


"Valentine did not join the skirmishing party,
but retired into the house, and closing the door,
was heard to say, slowly and sadly —

Now that comes of my taking after mother.
I've let the best chance for an interesting scout at
the key-hope slip, and I'll never know what game
yonder vermin is up to. Dear, dear ! "

As soon as Bartlemy had left the room, Esther
tottered to her bed, and, falling on it, gave her
weakness and grief and bitter shame full play,
and for more than half-an-hour lay there, sobbing
and crying.

She was roused, however, by a step on the
stairs ; she started up, thinking it might be the
wretched man coming back, and all traces of her
weakness left her as she drew herself up with a
scornful and haughty air.

It was, however, only Mrs. Pimmins, who
brought in a tray with some tea, toast, and a little
pat of butter. After she had set these things
down on the table, she smoothed her apron once
or twice, coughed, and finally said —

"I've brought your tea, miss' glancing at
Esther's ringlets hand, " and I hope you'll enjoy
it. But you'll excuse me saying it, and far be it
from me, being poor people ourselves, to be hard
on anyone likewise situated, but being poor people,
I must say as how I should like to have a little
money from you to go on with."

'you are right," said Esther, "and I thank
you much for your kindness. You shall be paid
fully tomorrow. Will that suit you ? "

Certainly, miss. Excuse my mentioning it."

"You did right. God bless you for a dear,
motherly creature. Would that there were many
like you."

Mrs. Pimmins was so overcome by this strange
address that she retreated hastily back to the landing,
but put her head into the room again before
going downstairs, and said —

Never mind, dear, if it isn't tomorrow. We
all finds it hard to live, and I didn't want to be
cruel. Mind, the tea's very hot. Good-night."

Esther, left alone, after barely touching the tea,
set about making some preparations as if for departure.


There was not much to do, certainly, not being
overburdened with a large wardrobe ; indeed, all
she had to pack went into a small handkerchief.
But, before retiring to rest, she drew out of a
drawer in the table a sheet of note-paper, and
wrote some lines on it, then unclasped her locket,
opened it, took out of it a picture of a little blue-eyed
girl and a lock of golden hair, and after kissing

them tenderly, laid the locket on the paper. She
then destroyed a few letters by burning them at
the candle, first tearing off and placing in her
pocket a signature of one of them.

She then went to rest, but did not sleep, but lay
restlessly tossing about on her bed.

At earliest dawn, while a thick mist enveloped
the street, as if in a cloud, she rose; and, after
tidying herself a little at the triangular looking-glass
and making a hasty breakfast off the cold
tea and toast which remained from the previous
night, took up her little bundle and crept from the
room, down the stairs, and let herself out of the
door into the street.

Looking first to the right and then to the left,
she chose her way down to the river side, and ran
swiftly towards it.

At about this time, Mrs. Pimmins senior, the
old grandmother to whom reference has been
made, left her room on the ground floor and set
about to crawl up the steps which led to the first
landing. Having accomplished this with evident
difficulty, for she was old and infirm, she waited
on the last step gasping and chuckling in a subdued
and discordant manner. Then, setting the
candle she carried down on the floor, she advanced
on tip-toe to the door of the lodger's room, still
gasping but chuckling audibly. Placing her eye
to the keyhole, she seemed to take survey of the
premises, which, however, appeared to give her
but small satisfaction, for muttering " the key's
on the other side, she's locked herself in," she

Tvitliclrew her face from the keyhole , and placed in
its stead a grisly ear.

It's all serene," she muttered ; " she's as fast
as a doornail. I'll have the gold locket. He ! he !
he ! and maybe the silver belt."

With that she tried the door and entered.

The room was nearly dark, and as the bed stood
in a comer over which the roof shelved it was
enveloped in perfect darkness.

Passing at the door to assure herself that the
sleeper had not been disturbed, she returned to the
passage and fetched the light.

With this in her hand, and without again looking
towards the bed, the withered old hag crept upto
the table and peered anxiously over it.

The first thing she saw was the tray, and clutching
at a stray bit of sugar she wiped up the
fragments of butter with it, put this dainty morsel
into her mouth, and sucked it with great relish.
Then seeing the locket lying on the piece of paper
she made a grab at it, and without waiting any
longer, put it in her pocket, and crept out of the
room gasping and chuckling.

I'se got him. He ! he ! he ! The gould locket.
He ! he ! I'se got him ! '' and then crawled downstairs
into her room again.

Mrs. Pimmins was up in about an hour after,
but thinking that a good rest would do her lodger
good, she refrained from going up to Esther's
room, but set about to make her a cup of coffee,
and sent Yalentine out to buy a couple of eggs
and a slice or two of bacon.

When these comestibles arrived, she waited till
about nine, and then, after arranging the breakfast
on her best tray, she bade Valentine carry it
upstairs, and followed, anxious to see whether her
lodger would or would not tender payment, but
fully determined, in the kindness of her heart, not
to press her for it.

Valentine went first, but no sooner had he
reached the second floor landing when he cried —

"Why, mother, the door's opens' and going
into the room continued, " ^Vhy, mother look
here, she's gone — bolted cleanse''

"What!" cried Mrs. Pimmins, as she hurried
up the stairs.

She's bolted clean. Ah, I alius thought she
were a bolter," said the ci-devant page.

"Go on with you," said his mother, "you're
asleep, you've not woke up yet.^^

Saint I ? Look there," said Valentine.

"Well, bless me," said Mrs. Pimmins, as she
stared about the room. " Well, of all the artful,
deceiving, mean hussies, if she aunt the very first.
Not a scrap of nowt left to pay for her lodging,.
let alone her vittles. Valentine, call your granny
up, and let's talk. I reckon it's a polls case."

Aye, ril fetch the old gal up, she alius were a
cunning old dodger. Maybe she'll give us some
advices

Valentine then descended and returned, escorting
his grandmother, who professed to be so overcome
by the treachery of their lodger, that she
was trying to impress on her grandson the feasibility

of his immediately fetching from the King
Hal tavern round the corner a pint of half-and-half,
'drawer strong' for her refreshment and
restoration.

Valentine however did not see this in the same
light, for apart from the fact that he would have
been obliged to defray the cost of the beverage in
copper from his own exchequer, he was too eager
in his curiosity to see the end of the morning's
adventure, so he contented himself by dragging
the shaky old lady into the room.

Mrs. Pimmins, who had been searching the
room, held out a paper as he entered, and said —
'' Here's something, Yah, it looks like a banknote.
See what it is. I never could read, thank
heavens ! "

^' It'll be a queer bank this flimsy came from,"
said Valentine, critically examining the paper.
^' It's nothing but a paper."

Let's hear it, then," said Mrs. Pimmins, impatiently.


"Aye, aye," said the grandmother, "read it.
Jack, there's a lad."

Valentine then read as follows : —

Good ivoman. I must leave this house at once.
I have no money " —

What did she take this 'ere fashionable lodgings
for then ? " said the grandmother.

Oh ! shut up, granny," said her dutiful grandson,
who did not like to be interrupted in his
successful feat of deciphering manuscript. " Who
wants you a bothering ? ' " He then proceeded —

But 1 leave you this, which is worth more than
what 1 owe you. Keep if, I beseech you, till I can
buy it bach from you. I prize it, oh! so dearly.''^

Is that all ? " asked Mrs. Pimmins, perplexedly,

"That's all," said Yalentine.

Well, I like lier impertinence, then," said
Mrs. Pimmins, angrily. " To run away without
leave or notice, and leave nothing but a scrap of
paper to pay for her board and lodging."

"Aye, artful hussy, bad girl," said Madame
Pimmius, senior.

WeU, what's to be done, mother? " asked
Yalentine. " Is it a case for the poles ? "

No, Jack, not the poles," said Mrs. Pimmins,
senior, anxiously. " Not the polls, poor thing,
don't set the polls after her."

"No, Valentine," said Mrs. Pimmins; "no, I
have been deceived where I didn't expect it, and I
don't like to own it before them sharp folks. I'll
take more care next time. I'm sorry for her,
more for her than for the shillings I've lost."

Where did you lose them ? " asked Mrs. Cummins,
senior, quickly.

I mean the money Pve lost with her. I don't
care, though. Take the tray down again, Yal.-"

"And what will we do with this paper,
mother ? " asked Yalentine, with a grin. " This
paper as she prizes 0-o-h ! so dearly. Will we
keep it till she comes back in a carriage and four,
with a coachman in livery, and two gilt nobs
behind, to buy it back ? Or shall we put it up
the spout ? "

"I shall keep it, Yalentine, something may
come of it."

How Esther fared in the big heartless city, with
nothing in her pocket, and no friends to go to,
may be best reserved for another chapter.

H-,

DOROTHY TO THE EESCTJE.

Copy of a letter from Miss Crosthwaite, to
Charles Hauberk, student of Roman Law in the
University of Leipzic, in Saxony.

Grosvenor Hotel, London, W.

"My Dear Charles,

You will be rather surprised to see
where I date from, and it perhaps needs a little
explanation. I told you in one of my last letters
that my sister Sabine had been entertaining
some ideas of marrying a gentleman, and, from
all I have heard about him, I was very much
opposed to the marriage. Well, finding that all
my letters, and I assure you I wrote her dozens
on this subject, seemed to produce no effect, I
determined to come to London and see the man
with my own eyes — rather dim eyes, pet — and
try to persuade her, if I found him as objectionable
as I supposed, to give him up.

"I came down a few days ago, availing myself
of the escort of your friend, Mr. Douglas,
as far as Bletchley, where he left me for Oxford.


"I like the young man very much, and hope
you will continue on good terms with him. He
has plenty of good sense, which is rather more
than I can say for a certain young gentleman

of my acquaintance, who goes to Porker festivals
with German students and fights pistol duels.
Who is he, do sou think ?

^' Well, I came here safely, but did not call on
Sabine till the day before yesterday, as I felt tired
and flurried in this great rushing city, with its rude
porters and cabman, and was glad of a rest. On
that day, however, the day before yesterday, I
went to Grosvenor Gardens at about eleven, which
is just after Sabine's breakfast. She didn't seem
glad to see me, though I was rejoiced to see her,
dear thing ; she was looking so well that I did
not like to see her vexed. She told me that she
was expecting her bridegroom, the Rev. Bartlemy
Hiram, to come for a final interview.

' Bridegroom ! ' said I, ^ it surely hasn't come
to that yet ? '

J^he answered rather snappishly that it had,
and that she wasn't going to be made the victim
of anybody's jealousy. I couldn't make out at all
what she meant by jealousy, but she is delicate I
know, and must be humoured. The bridegroom
did not keep us waiting, but came about ten
minutes after me. He was very civil to me, and
seemed really fond of Sabine ; but, for all that, I
didn't like the man, and never shall. He seems
a hypocrite, and I think I can see through his
plausible, oily way. He can't look a person in the
face. I won't say anything about his personal appearance,
for fear of being reproachful, but even
that did not impress me favourably. He talked very
glibly about his church and his parish, and a lot

of bosh about his fold and his lambs. Before he
left he came up to me and said, ' I'm sure so good
a sister, as Sabine tells me you are, will make an
excellent sister-in-law.' I answered that I didn't
think I should ever have to be tried in that character,
and if I could help it I never would be. He
only smiled an oily smile, and said time would
show. I couldn't help asking what he proposed
to keep a wife on, and he answered that there was
room enough in the fold, and goodly pasture eke
for two. He then took his departure, after kissing
Sabine behind the screen and shaking hands with me.
Sabine at once began to reproach me, though
I'm sure I don't know why, with having been rude
to him. I said I had only spoken my mind, as I
always did. 1 then tried to persuade her to give
him up, and used all the arguments in my power
to bring this about. I told her, what I had told
her twenty times before, that he is too young and
she too old ; that he is not a gentleman, either in
appearance or manner ; that he has no visible
means of support, and is probably only marrying
her to get her fortune. But it was all in vain, and
I had to leave her with a heavy heart. She asked
me to come and take tea yesterday, and promised
me that her lover should be there, and said that
she hoped when I got to know her Bartlemy better,
I should also like him in the same degree. I
wouldn't promise that, because first impressions
go a long way with me, but I did promise to drink
a dish of tea with her, for that operation does not.
entail any sacrifice of one's principles, you see.

I went about five and stayed late, till about
ten. He came just before tea and went away soon
after, in fact just as soon as tea was done. He
did not at all improve on acquaintance, as I find
bim vulgar even in his eating. He blew into the
teacup to cool bis tea, when it kept him too long
waiting ; wiped up the jam on his plate with the
crumbs of his bread ; ate things with his knife,
and used the tablecloth for a napkin. Besides
that, his conversation was very stupid ; he talked
about nothing but his parish, and the charitable
works he had done there, and so on. He has a
very curious pronunciation of English, and evidently
affects Americanisms. He talked about
selling tidings at auctions, asked for more 'bread-stuff,'
asked Sabine what kind of ' dirt ' she put in
her flower-pots, meaning, earth ; remarked what
elegant ' butter we had, and so on. From a man
educated at Cambridge all this is bad and vulgar,
and I wish Sabine could be brought to see it. I
tried my best, hopelessly though, to bring this
about, after he had gone, but it was useless. She
got so angry that I was fain to drop the subject,
which, however, I did not do, till she had promised
not to marry him until a proper and full
settlement of her money had been made on herself.
I then dismissed the topic, and had a
pleasant, sisterly chat on old times and old
friends, about our dear departed ones and our beloved
father. If it had not been for the remembrance
of the bridegroom I should have

thoroughly enjoyed myself. T stayed till ten, and ,
after bidding Sabine good-bye, set out to walk
back to the hotel on foot, for the streets about
there are good, well lighted, and well paved, and
it is only about ten minutes' walk from Sabine's
house to the Grosvenor.

I had got about half way there, and was passing
by the door of the Victoria Metropolitan
Station, when I saw the Eev. Bartlemy Hiram in
front, talking to a woman. I did not want him to
see me, and so I stepped into the doorway. He
seemed to be talking very violently, but I could
not hear what he said, what with the roar of the
trains down the stairs and rattle of the cabs on the
road, but he was evidently speaking very harshly
to the woman. She, poor thing, looked miserably
pale and wi-etched, and appeared to be begging of
him. Indeed, during a momentary lull of the
traffic, I heard —

' I only want the means to get a bed and a
crust. I've been walking about since yesterday
morning, and am dying of hunger.'

"The reverend gentleman, who had professed
himself so charitable to us, said something, which
I couldn't quite catch, about ^ plucky enough
yesterday,' an expression I couldn't understand —
Cambridge slang, perhaps. Then, and I blush
whilst writing it, he lifted his arm, to which she
had been clinging, and, yes, pushed her violently
into the gutter. She gave a weak cry, staggered
back, and fell into the road. My valorous brother-in-law

left her, and without another word or deed,
ran down the street, where I saw him climb on ta
a Royal Aquarium omnibus.

"I did not know what to do. My first impulse
was to go back to Sabine and tell her all about it,
but I doubted if she would believe it, and then
there was the poor young woman lying in the road.
I went up to her, but couldn't get near, because a
crowd had formed. A policeman came by and
pushed his way through, and I thought I had
better leave her to him as I felt nervous at the
crowd and noise, so I walked on. But Dorothy,
somehow, did not feel at al] comfortable in doing
this and I kept thinking of the words about the
Pharisee, who saw his brother in distress and
passed by on the other side of the way, so I turned
round to see if I could help at all, swallowing my
fear and weak nervousness. I saw that the policeman
had helped the woman up, and was coming
along the street with her. Seeing me he stopped,
and asked me if I would give him my handkerchief
to bind up her head, which had a wound in
it. I said I certainly would, and put my hand in
my pocket for it, but it was gone. I told the
policeman so, and he said there were a deal of
prigs about. I suppose he meant pickpockets.
He said it was a bad case with the young woman.
I asked him where he was taking her to, and he
said the station. She looked so wretched and pale
that I could not think of letting her go to the
police-station. I asked him if she had done anything
wrong. He said not, but the station wa

the only place for her, as the workhouses would
all bo shut, and she had told him she had no place
to go to.

I asked him if I might take care of her, and
lie seemed only too glad to get rid of his charge.
I told him to bring her round to the Grosvenor
Hotel, and I went on. I saw the secretary in the
oflBce, and he found no objection to taking her in
on my assuming full responsibility. He said she
must be brought in by the lower entrance, and
sent a porter round to meet the policeman and tell
him so. At my request, he also caused a doctor toto
be summoned. 1 went upstairs and told the
chambermaid to prepare a bed for her in my room,

*' This was just done when the porter and the
policeman appeared with the girl. She had
fainted, and they brought her in in their arms. I
dismissed the policeman with half-a-sovereign, for
he seemed a kind, good-natured man, and his
uniform was dreadfully spoiled.

"With the aid of the chambermaid I managed
to restore the poor girl, and then we put her to
bed. The doctor, who arrived presently, said
there was nothing the matter with her except
hunger and weariness. He dressed her wound,
and prescribed beef tea for her at once. He was
such a good-humoured, ruddy-looking old gentleman
that I could not help telling him the circumstances.


''He looked at me gravely and shook his head,
and asked ' Are you from the country, madam '? '

VOL. I. M

I answered, ' Yes.'

^' He said, '^Ah! I thought so! Dangerous
thing to do, to bring in girls from the street ; but
never mind, Good Samaritan sort of thing, makes
one feel comfortable. Now, tell me, didn't you do
this for the sake of an adventure, something to
tell the country cousins about, and so on? '

I said, ' Certainly not.'

*^ He answered, ' Well, don't be offended at my
remark — a strange thing ; not often done in this
city, I think. See the poor things lying about,
sick, hungry, dying, every day, waiting for the
Good Samaritan who never comes. No, he never
comes, never comes ! unless with a sand-glass and
sickle ; you understand ? '

I was so encouraged by his good nature that I
prayed him to come on the morrow, to advise me
what was the best thing to do with the unhappy
girl, for I now began to feel the responsibility I
had undertaken.

But he answered, ' No, no ; I cannot advise in
that. I can bind a broken head and cure a cough,
but beyond that Bob Bennett is a sad child. I
know nothing about the world and its ways — the
world and its ways by one that doesn't know them,
eh ? But I'll tell you what, madam, I'll bring my
brother tomorrow — Bennett, of Lincoln's Inn,
barrister; he'll tellyou what to do. See? Oh ! never
mind fee now. No, no ! couldn't think of it.
Good-night.'

'with that, and putting aside the guinea I
held out to him, the worthy old doctor departed.

The chambermaid went for the beef tea and
soon brought it, and I set about to administer it
to the poor woman. She seemed to take it
mechanically", and remained half-conscious the
whole time. I could not think of asking her to
tell me about herself and her misfortunes, even
had she been able to answer me. So after taking
a little of the beef tea myself, for I felt tired and
trussed,' I went to bed also. The poor thing slept
very quietly, and did not disturb me at all. She
was still asleep, even after I was up and dressed,
and I thought it best to leave her so till she might
awake of her own accord. I own that I did not
feel so enthusiastic about her in the morning, and
thought that Dorothy had done rather, a foolish
thing to bring in a stranger from the streets, and
put her to bed in her own room ; but she looked
so refreshed and comfortable when she woke that
all my self-reproach vanished, and I thought how-different
would have been her waking in a dingy
police cell, lying in chains on a stone bench.

'' It would not have been the correct thinking
this adventure if she had not said, ' Where am
I ? ' when she awoke. She did it, too, but not
melodramatically, but oh ! so wearily. I told her
what had happened the previous evening, and that
she must keep quiet and get better and not talk.
She looked at me with great amazement, and
then sank back on her pillow. I let her sleep till
about eleven, when I ordered some breakfast for
her. She ate it readily and seemed better for it,
but in nowise disposed to speak, but lay looking

at me every now and then with a weary, wistful
look, which touched old Dorothy^s^s heart. The
doctor had appointed to come at one. As I had
some business to do I went out, leaving the
chambermaid in charge. As soon as 1 had done
my shopping I went straight to Grosvenor Gardens,
for I had determined to tell Sabine all about it,
and see if this would not open her eyes to the
bridegrooms character. I saw her standing at
her window as I came up ; and she saw me, for
she retreated hastily. When I asked at the door
whether she was in the servant said not. I could
not understand this, as I had just seen her at the
window. I told the servant so, but she repeated
what she had said, and not with much civility,
that Miss Crosthwaite was out. It was with a sad
heart that I went back to the hotel to think that
this wretch of a man should have stepped in
between me and my sister, the sister with whom
I had lived in peace and happiness for more than
forty years.

When I got back I found the doctor and his
brother in attendance. The younger jar. Bennett
introduced himself with great civility. He seems
a very nice man, tho' I do not like him as much as
his brother, the good-natured, quaint old doctor.
This took place in my parlour, for 1 have two
rooms here. I begged Mr. Bennett to sit down,
while the doctor and I went together into the bedroom.
We found the patient awake, chatting
with the chambermaid, who was repairing her
dress. The doctor took her hand, felt her pulse.

looked at her wound, changed the dressing, and
pronounced everything satisfactory. He told me
she might take any food she liked, and would be
quite well enough to go oufc tomorrow; for all
this, you know, took place this morning.

We went back to the parlour, and I said to
the doctor, ' When this woman is better, what can
I do for her ; are there any institutions where she
can be received ? '

'' He answered, ' Don't ask me, please — don't
ask Bob Bennett, madam. He's not a man of the
world, and knows nothing about its institutions,
except that doctors get more fees than they
deserve. JN'o, no, I did not mean it for a hint.
Put your guineas back, madam. I've done
nothing, and get nothing ; any quack could have
told you that the prescription for hunger is food,
and the prescription for weariness and fatigue is
sleep. But if you want worldly advice ask him — a
cunning old lawyer — he'll give it you. And you
had better get your guinea changed into ,
for he'll do you. Ha, ha. Oh ! he's
a cunning old boy, is John. Ha, ha, ha.' And
with that, and a courtly bow to me, he took his
hat and left us.

I felt rather perplexed what to say to the
strange lawyer, because you see he wasn't a real
solicitor, but a barrister, and you can't get
barristers to advise you, without much fuss. He
relieved me, however, by saying, ' I understand
jour difficulty, madam. Bob, that is my brother
the doctor, told me about it as we came along.

Tou will allow me to say that I think it rather a
risky thing to do, to bring a perfectly strange
woman from the streets in here, especially into an
hotel like this. Of course I cannot advise you at
once what to do with her, and, I fear, if she is of
the ordinary run, she will be difficult to get rid of,
and may give you a great deal of trouble and
annoyance.' I felt quite ashamed as he gave me
this scolding, for I felt I had deserved it. Seeing
my confused look, he went on, ' But mind, I do not
blame this piece of charity. I can quite understand
what a tender-hearted lady feels for her
sex, especially when in deep disgrace and affliction.
I was speaking as a man of the world.'

I asked, ' What is a man of the world ? ' He
stopped a minute, and then laughed, and said,.
'Eeally, madam, you have posed me there. I
can't exactly tell you. It's a sort of expression we
use to signify a man's selfish behaviour in his
relations to the rest of mortality, and presupposes a
degree of general mistrust, from even the idea of
which I hope you may be ever distant. But now,
about this woman, or lady, or whatever she maybe.
Can I have a few words with her, do you
think ? I fancy you will have to get her admitted
into some workhouse.'

'' ' Oh, dear no,' said I ; ' she looks quite a
lady's

He smiled, and said, * Of course I cannot
gauge your benevolence, or know how far you are
prepared to assist her, a perfect stranger.'

' I thought of boarding her somewhere, till she

could hear from her friends, but 1 should want
to speak to her first

' Can I see her then ? ' asked Mr. Bennett.

^' ' I fear not at present said I. ' She is not
up yet. Perhaps you could wait.'

'' ' No, madam,' he answered. ' I regret that I
cannot, for I really feel interested in this case,
though I don't know why, but I have an appointment
at half-past two, and am late already.'

I begged him to come on the morrow, and he
consented, and I was going to thank him, when
he said, very much in his brother's way, ' No, no,
madam, don't say a word about it. I feel interested,
as I said before, and I will give you all the advice
I can in the matter. I've battled too long with
hard-hearted and selfish man, not to appreciate a
little humanity when I meet it. Not a word if
you please. I'll be here tomorrow at two, and
good afternoon to you, madam.' He made his
bow, and departed, leaving me quite bewildered,
to find two such kindly gentlemen in this rushing,
busy town.

1 then went back into my room, and found
the patient sitting up, evidently waiting anxiously
for my return . I went up to her, and said, ' ^ ow,
my dear young woman, I want a little talk with
you. I want you to tell me the truth, and just all
about yourself.'

She raised my hand to her lips, and said, 'No,^
madam, I am deeply, deeply thankful to you, but
I never can tell that.'

"why not?' said I.

'' ' I cannot, indeed I cannot, nay will not say
one word about myself or my history. It is not
for ears such as yours to hear. I am in utter
poverty and alone, and can tell you no more''

' Well, dear,' said I, ' I will not press you, but
I must say I should like to hear something
about what you purpose to do. I should like to
help you a little, you know. I saw that wretch —
whom, I regret to say, I know — strike you. You
fell down, and I had you brought here.'

' I know, I know, dear lady,' said ; she ' the
girl has told me all about it, and I feel more than
I can say about it. But I could not think of
burdening you longer. The doctor says I can go
out tomorrow, and tomorrow I will go.-*

'' ' You will do nothing of the sort,' said I, 'till
you tell me where you are going to and what you
are going to do, or at least till you have taken
some help from me with you.'

She merely pressed my hand in reply, and then,
seeing that I wanted her to speak, she said, ' Are
you married to him ? '

I laughed, and answered, ^ No, I thank you ;
why do you ask ? '

^' She answered sadly, and, I thought, rather
hurt by my laughter, ' Oh ! nothing. I did not
think things could be so cruelly arranged. That
is all.' Then she dropped back on her pillow, and
spoke no more, and presently went to sleep.

All this took place about an hour ago, and she
is lying asleep, while I am writing this to ruy dear
boy. I cannot tell yet what will happen. I don't

like this reticence ou her part, because it puts mein
a false position, and I don't know what to do.
However, I am in hopes that Mr. Bennett, who
comes tomorrow, yon know, will help me. I am
quite willing to give her money, or board her out
somewhere, for however bad she may be, she need
not be starved, and Dorothy won't see starvation ;
but I don't think she is bad at all, she looks like
a lady, and her clothes are very respectable. I
have not described her to you yet, but you know
I am a Yere poor hand at describing people, and,
for instance, when friends who have heard me
talk about you ask me for your description, I can
only say, 'he is a bright-eyed boy Isn't he, pet?
I suppose though you would like to hear what she
is like, so I will just creep up to her bed and have
a look at her, and then come back.

"•I have taken my peep, and it was a satisfactory
peep. I nearly woke her, though, for her face is so
beautiful that I could not resist giving her a kiss.
She is certainly a lady in appearance, which I have
now noticed for the first time. She has beautiful
black hair, and fine dark lashes, her whole skin is
rather dark, her hands are beautifully shaped, and
she is a dear altogether.

I feel very perplexed what to do with her, and
feel sorry now and then that I came across her,
but for the insight this incident has given me
into the true character of my future brother-in-law.
I don't mean to say that I grudge her the
little I've done for hers but I am a simple little
country woman, and contact with horrid things

and deep misery upsets my nerves. I don't come
to London on that account oftener than I can
possibly help, because one sees such distressing
things here, and one canst help everywhere you
know. Well, I'm not going to trouble my head
to-night with any more thinking, because that
will give me a headache, for certain, tomorrow.

''I will certainly write tomorrow, after something
has been settled, and I sincerely trust that
things may be arranged comfortably. The £20
cheque which I sent you, but which you so nobly
returned, not wanting it, will do very well for
her and she is welcome to it, as far as it goes.

"But there I am again troubling about this
question which must finally rest till tomorrow.

'' I must stop now because I am very tired, and
this letter has grown very large, so that I fear you
"will be tired before you have finished reading it.
Let me see, one, two, four, six, eight, nine sheets I
have written , and what the postage will be who
knows ?

Good-night, dear boy, more tomorrow. Bless
you.

Your affectionate old lady,

Dorothy."

Charles was busy with some new project of his
when he got this letter, which did not, for this
reason, interest him as much as it would otherwise
have done. Herbert was very much interested in
the story, and was loud in Miss Crosthwaite's
praises, for the two young men had grown quite

firm friends by now, and Charles gave Herbert the
letter to read.

Herbert was anxious for the next day's post to
explain matters, and to hear the issue of the adventure.
And some of his excitement communicated
itself to Charles, so that the two young
men were eager to hear the postman's knock next
day. They were disappointed though, for all that
day DO postman stopped at the house.

The letter which was to tell them the sequel of
Dorothy's adventure never came all the week after.

Before Charles had had time to receive an answer
from her to his letter, asking why she had not
written an account, as promised, of what had
happened further, he had carried out his project.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

Two montis or more of hard work and-unflagging
industry was so novel an experience to Charles
that the reaction was as severe as the excitement.

So, towards the end of this time, Master Charles
"began to get desultory again, to leave his books
pretty often, to waste his time, dawdling, or reading
Dickens, or smoking, but chiefly in playing
with Fang, and teaching the dog silly tricks.

Lovell, would now and then remonstrate with
him, and say, " Come, Hauberk, this won't
do, you are getting idle. ^ Pickwick Papers or
'Martin Chuzzlewit/ won't teach you how to earn a
gentlemanly living, and Fang's capacity of sitting
up, or pretending to be dead, won't bring you in a
halfpenny. Work, my dear fellow, work."

Charles at such times would say, '^ INTo, I don't
read novels to find out how to earn any living,
but because I want to form my style, and with
regard to teaching Fang, it developed his intelligence
if not mine, and gives me a little relaxation."

To tell the truth, Charles gave himself quite
enough relaxation. In fact, he began relaxing
himself when he got up, and did not stop relaxing
himself till the evening when he went to bed.
He was not half so happy when he got into this
sway as he was before, for when he gave up working

he took to nothing in its stead. In fact tie
did nothing, and wanted nothing, but would sit
hours together, vaillant aux corneille.

He was not satisfied, nothing could make him
so, for idleness, not laziness which is quite a
different thing: and is as much a constitutional
defect as a weak spine or short-sightedness, always
carries with it a feeling of bitter self-reproach.

But for all that he was diligent in the little he
did, and misapplied energy was quite a trait in
his character. He would show a deep interest ina
novel, and read it for unheard-of lengths of
time, with an interest, of which if he had expended
a fraction over his Greek Grammar or
Euclid, would have helped him considerably in
after-life. One day Lovell found him sobbing
over a book. It was the " David Copperfield '^ of
Dickens. Lovell asked him, " What is the
matter?" He answered with a gasp, "This, this
death of Dora is too cruel." The sturdy American
laughed, and said, '' Pooh, pooh, Charles, its only
a novel. There never was such a person." " Yes,
there must be, I want to find her. I would love
her better than David did. I would, oh ! I could
worship her. My grief is that I never may find a
woman like her." Lovell did not laugh this time,
but answered kindly, " Well, well, perhaps you
will be fortunate. Besides, it's ten to one if a
Dora Spenlow did come across your path, you
would only think her a silly little thing, and, if
you married her, you would treat her just like
David did."

No, no' protested Charles ; " if ever I could
win the heart of such a woman, so beautiful
and tender and yet so childish, I would try to
please her every hour of my life. All the women
of to-day are mere worldly dolls''

The feeling you show," said Lovell, '^ is a
natural one but not a common one, for the world
and its motives have done much to destroy the
chivalry of our natures. Still the male will always
like to be able to protect the female, and the
weaker and more feeble the female is, the more
gratification he will have in protecting her. This
is a psychological fact. But, apart from that,
the fact of your being in a state of nervous excitement
by its contemplation is a bad sign, for
it tells me that your nerves are weaker than they
should be, and I wish, my dear fellow, you wouldn't
smoke so much, and be a little steadier generally."

He is only a cad, and cannot appreciate my
feelings," thought Charles. "What should he know
of love?"

After maundering on in the listless way described
for a week or two, Charles came one day
into his friend's study and said —

Lovell, I'm going to leave, I cannot stand this
sickening town any longer."

"Where are yoa going to — England?" asked
Lovell.

No — yes. I am going to Southampton, and
from there to Italy. I mean to have one year of
my life at any rate."

It was in vain that the practical young American

endeavoured to prevail on him to change his
wild project, in vain that he represented how
suicidal such a course would be, to abandon his
studies, to neglect his education, to idle away one
of the best years of his life in doing nothing; in
vain that he pointed out how bad an influence
such indulgence would have on his moral character
; in vain that he urged him to reflect how
anxious his position would be after the year had
elapsed, and he should find himself without funds.

Charles was obstinate, and set about making
his preparations to go.

It was about this time that Miss Crosthwaite's
letter had come, and in the midst of his excitement
Charles paid little attention to it. The
name of Mr. Bennett aroused his interest a little,
for he still possessed Mr. Bennett's card, which, it
will be remembered that eccentric gentleman had
forced upon him at the Oxford railway station.

He merely acknowledged the letter with a postcard,
adding that he should be glad to hear more
about that " lawyer fellow."

As already mentioned, no further letters came
from London on the following day, and two days
afterwards Charles left Leipzic.

Lovell accompanied him to the railway station,
and made him promise to write, to which Charles
agreed, though not with the best grace.

Fang and his books went with him, the terrier
still ardent in his vigilance over them.

All this forming the project, packing up,
rushing away, was done with his usual impetuosity

and thoughtlessness, but when he found himself
sitting in his first-class carriage (for Charles was
proud, and thought a Hauberk must travel first-class),
being whirled along towards Hamburg (if
we may use an expression about a continental
train which fully acts up to the motto of the noble
house of Onslow, and hume on slow) he had
ample time to consider his plan, and his means of
carrying it out. Rejoicing in unbounded self-confidence,
and, it is to be feared, in somewhat of
conceit, he thought he had acted rightly.

The scheme of his voyage, and his means for
doing it, he explained in the following letter to
Miss Crosthwaite, which he wrote the day after he
reached Hamburg : —

"Hotel des Sequins,

'' Mehlweerft,

^•' Hamburg.
'^My Dear Miss Crosthwaite, —

You will be surprised to see where I am,
but, as I mentioned in my previous letters, the life
at Leipzic and the daily contact with those unpleasant
students became so sickening to me that
I determined to leave. It is my intention to proceed
to-night to Southampton, by steam packet,
which I shall reach in time to sail to Naples by
steamer. I see that the steamship Voorwaarts, of
the Nederland Steamship Company, is advertised
to sail the day of my arrival, and, as I am told, it is
usually late, so that I have hopes of getting therein
time to take my passage in ifc.

''Tou will probably wonder with what purpose
I am going to Italy. It is partly to seek my
fortune and partly to continue my studies. I
take all my books with me, and I have some idea
of getting out of Naples into the country, renting
some tumble-down old cottage, and living there in
the simplest manner possible, devoting myself to
my work, and to what is now the chief object of
my life — my poetry.

"I shall thus pass one year of my life in perfectly
congenial surroundings, and after that, and after
my funds are exhausted, I can still take some
ushership in an English school, where my hopeless
drudgery will be lightened by the remembrance of
the pleasant year I spent in !Naples.

My funds are not in a flourishing state, but,
according to my calculations, I shall have ample
for one year. I hold seventy pounds from the
hundred and fifty I left Keswick with last year, or
rather more. My passage to Southampton and
fare for Fang occupy five pounds, and another
sixteen pounds will land us in Naples, so that I
shall have fifty pounds to live on there, or about
twenty-six francs a week, according to the present
rate of exchange on English gold.

I cannot at present tell you where to address
your next letter to, but will write from Naples
when I reach there, probably in another fortnight.

'both my friend and myself were interested in
your account of your adventure, though why you
never told us the sequel is a question.

VOL. I. u

^' Probably, at least I supposed so, lie vanished
next morning with your watch and portfolio, or
with a selection of linen, and you did not like to
mention it to me, as no one likes to own to having
been duped. However, tell me, when you know
my address, how it ended.

That Bartlemy Hiram must be a very horrid
man, and I pity your sister if she gets into his
clutches. Mind you tell me all about these matters
when you write.

This hotel is well named ' The Shark Hotel,'
for they have fleeced me soundly I am paying 6d.
for this sheet of note-paper and 2d. for the
envelope, and they seem to think it very liberal
that I have the use of a spluttering pen and a
dropsical ink-bottle for nothing. I hardly venture
to think what my full bill will be, although I leave
to-night.

Fang sends you his love, and as he has just
made a blot on the paper you may take that as his
way of expressing it.

I am off now, so good-night and good-bye.
"Tour affectionate,

"Charles Hauberk."

"Pes. — My bill was 15s. for one day's board.
Fang has been regaled to the amount of 7s. 6d. I
hope he won't have a fit on board."

Charles had just time to finish this letter, pay
his bill, and get down to the Southampton steamer.

Having seen Fang safely secured on deck, near
the boiler, he went down to the saloon to see if his



"berth, wMcli lie had previously secured was comfortable
for the night.

While he was standing at it, arranging his rug,
and putting out what he needed for the night, he
heard a voice, which seemed familiar to him
behind him saying —

Well, being chiefly in the beer and sugar way
myself, I may as well, as you might say, claim to
have an opinion on German beer. German beer,
as you might say, is fit for pigs. It's worse than
liquorice water. '^

Charles turned round, and saw two gentlemen
sitting at the table, drinking a bottle of Bass's pale
ale. He at once recognised the speaker — it was
his old acquaintance Mangles. He did not know
the other man, who was a vulgar-looking being,
dressed in a blue serge suit, with a high hat, and
flaming red velvet cravat, and looked like a pawnbroker
out of work. Examining him closer, he
saw that he wore red whiskers, and had a very
red nose and spotted face, his hair was dark, and
his whole appearance unfavourable. Mangles,
who sat with his back towards Charles, seemed
the same as ever, except that he had grown more
like a beer barrel in figure, had some signs of
approaching whiskers, and spoke with a luckier
voice.

Charles felt very much embarrassed by this
rencontre, for of all persons he desired to meet no
one less than his former friend. Apart from the
awkwardness of his change of name, and the
danger of being put to confusion on this subject

by some remark from him, lie did not know wTiat
impertinent remarks Mangles might make on the
subject of his departure from Oxford, or whether
he would not publicly claim the amount of the
debt which Charles still owed him.

He did not know what to do, as it was quite
impossible to escape Mangles' notice. He thought
of slinking out of the saloon, and spending his
night in the fore cabin, or on the deck, but here
his pride stepped in. He then thought of getting
quietly into bed and covering himself up with his
rug, and stopping thus till they reached port. He
was, indeed, preparing to carry this plan into
execution, and was just climbing as softly as
possible into his berth, when a loud barking was
heard on deck, which caused Mangles to turn
round and remark —

Bother that dog ; if he begins to bark now,
what will he do all night ? I hope he don't disturb
me, or I'll throw him overboard — the brutes

Will you ? '^ was the almost involuntary question
of Charles, who felt indignant at this reproach
of his dog.

"Yes, sir," said Mangles, half-turning, '^ I will
I don't like dogs, never did, never liked any
animals, as you might say " (then turning to his
friend), "What's the use of animals if you can't
eat them, and mayn't beat 'em ? But bless me if
it isn't Benson. Come, Benson, don't be ashamed ;
Benson, you know me sure enough. Mangles, as
you owed a hundred and fifty quid to at Oxford,
and still do, for the matter of that. !Neo, don't get

into "bed, come and have a drop of English beer
with Tis, it's rare stuff, Benson, after German
wash '^

Charles could not, with any decency, refuse, and
almost mechanically sat down by the brewer's side.

Well, Benson," continued Mangles, " and how
are you, Benson? What a bolt that was of yours.
B}' Jove, you chiselled them well, didn't you ? "

What do you mean, sir ? " asked Charles
angrily.

"Aye, you know well enough what I mean.
Look, Snorker, something in your line this. Made
who knows what debts, and then bolted, he did.
But, as you might say, where's the odds as long as
your happy and have got English beer to drink,
after lagger and sauerkraut ? '^

Charles, in the greatest indignation at Mangles'
manner, and at the looks of admiration which the
vulgar Snorker cast at him, was first thinking of
answering Mangles as insulted, but then seeing
how much wiser it was to keep quiet, turned it off
with a lauofh, and asked Mantles what he was
doing in that part of the world.

Oh," answered Mangles, '' after I got sent
down, my governor cut up rather rough, and as we
couldn't knock it off well together at home, as you
might say, I suggested that I should go abroad,
and investigate the German way of brewing, and
a precious bad way it is too. It strikes me,
though I never investigated nothing, that this is
the way they do it. The brewing-master gets a
tub full of hot water, and goes up to it, puts his

finger and thumb into Ms waistcoat pockets, pulls
out a pinch of hops, sprinkles it in, then puts his
finger and thumb into his other waistcoat pocket,
and sprinkles in a pinch of malt, stirs it bottles
it up, and lays it by in a dry and cool place, till
ready for use. And a precious rum use it is and
all ; and not a use you'll get me to use as long as
my governor brews the right sort. The Regular
Northampton Blow-me-tight ; none genuine unless
signed, Jemmy Mangles-Peebles-Mangles, Esquire,,
without which none is genuine. What I say about
that Hamburg beer is — ask for it and see you don't
get it. But what can you expect from Humbugs
folks ? I couldn't stand it a month, and so I'm
back to Northampton. Now I've answered you,
and perhaps you'll answer me ; what are you doing
here of all places ? '^

"When I left Oxford," answered Charles, "I
came abroad, to continue my education, and am
now going back to England."

"Right you are," said Mangles; "but here,
you two must know each other. Chizzlem Snorker,
Esquire, Bea., over the left. Charles Benson,
ditto, over the right — Charles Benson — Chizzlem
Snorker."

Chizzlem Snorker raised his hat, and Charles
acknowledged it with a slight bow.

"We'll exchange cards, if you please," said
Chizzlem, presenting his card, which was about
half a foot square.

Charles followed suit, forgetting for a minute
the folly of doing so.

Chizzlem Snorker took it, and after looking at
its turned to Mangles and said —

You've made a mistake, mj buck ; this gentleman's
name is Hauberk, not Benson'

'• Get out," said Mangles, '' don't you know ?
You're in the same line yourself."

Ah ! so," said Chizzlem Snorker, with a
glance of profound admiration at the unhappy
Charles. " That's it, is it ? soothing to be
ashamed of. I've done it myself many a time,
though I'm correct at last ; came back to my old
name because it was quite new again. I've got
cards enough to fill a tray, all denoting myself — •
from Ponsonby Mortimer, down to Bartholomew
Clogs ; from FfoUiott do Tompkins down to No.
A-lo 96."

Charles rose and said —

'' I regret, Mr. Mangles, that I must forego your
society to-night. You have wilfully misrepresented
my case. You know what my name is, and you
most impertinently make me out to be hiding
under an alias. There, sir, is your card back," to
Chizzlem Snorker, '' may I request you to return
me mine ? I do not desire your further acquaintance."


All right, sir, all right," said Chizzlem, lighting
a huge cigar ; " there it is, don't get your shirt
out about it. I daresay I'll get along well enough
without you. Though why you should be ashamed
at what some of theflyestmen do regularly, I can't
tell."

Mangles was far too gone in the English ale to

make any coherent observation, and diaries, without
another word, left the table, and getting into
his berth composed himself to sleep.

But to compose one's self to sleep, and to get to
sleep are unfortunately two different matters, the
one depending on the will and the other on the
nerves ; and what sith the pitching of the boat,
the howls on deck of the unhappy Fang, the smoke
and talk in the cabin, and the angry feeling which
possessed him, Charles found it very hard to get
to sleep.

He was just dozing ofiP, however, when another
passenger came into the saloon and roused him
again. The new-comer was one of a class which
every passenger by steam packet must have
noticed ; for who has not observed those elderly
gentlemen, who as soon as they get on board go
down into the cabin and steadily set to work on
the supper laid out, and who afterwards assure you,
unhappy in the pangs of anticipation, that there's
as nice a bit of underdone beef and pickled onions
in the cabin as a man could wish for ; who then
begin to pace the deck as if their reputation depended,
like that of a professional walker, on the
number of yards they can walk in an hour, and
apparently regardless of wind or weather, continue
to walk up and down with an air of profound
nautical wisdom, and whose feet, after you
have sought refuge from your sorrows in you
berth, keep beating time to the throbbing of your
aching head ?

Such a one was the new-comer, who had been

reluctantly obliged to forego the exercise of his
peripatetic philosophy by the huge seas which
came washing over the deck, and who after consulting
an elderly mariner who was on watch , as
to the feasibility of " bracing up that larboard jib-boom,"
and having been derided by the aforesaid
ancient mariner, had determined to go down into
the cabin and have another grog to keep the wet
out, or, as he expressed it himself to the steward,
'' to put the wet in to keep the wet out."

He was a short, florid-looking old gentleman,
with white hair and a verj^ lively pair of brown eyes.
He was dressed in black, with a large Scotch plaid
thrown over his shoulders. He wore a magnificent
gold watch and chain, from which a bunch of seals
and charms depended.

Having given his orders to the steward, he
walked up the saloon, with his boots creaking
loudly; he then jerked his plaid off, and in doing
so shook a quantity of moisture off it on to the
head and shoulders of Chizzlem Snorker, Esquire,
who was still devoting his attention to the investigation
of English ale.

Now then," growled Chizzlem, '' where are
you a-coming of. I ain't bargained with you fora
shower bath, any way."

"Good, good," laughed the old gentleman;
^' not bargained with me for a shower bath, eh ?
Smart that. One for you, sir."

One what ? " asked Chizzlem.

"sone mark, one point, one — in short, one
anything," answered the old gentleman.

A Battered Honour*"

Better sap one glass of grog, similar to what
you've been ordering for yourself, then. That's
more like it," returned Chizzlem.

Right sou are," said the old gentleman. sphere,
steward, make another glass for this gentleman."

The steward brought the grog, and the two new
acquaintances sat down together to enjoy it, and
amuse themselves with each other's conversation.
They seemed to derive ample amusement, too,
especially the old gentleman, who was perpetually
bursting into roars of laughter at some anecdote
or repartee from Chizzlem ; and was so noisy that
Charles found it impossible to get to sleep for
some time.

He was just dozing off again, and already half-unconscious,
when he dimly fancied he saw
Chizzlem Snorker, who had been busily plying the
old gentleman with liquor, bend over him and
stealthily withdraw his watch from his pocket and
put it into his own.

He was so far gone in weariness and sleepiness
that this seemed to him a dream, and awaking no
interest in him left no impression on his mind.

When he woke next morning he had forgotten
all about it. He was much relieved to find that
he need fear no renewed unpleasantness from
either Mangles or his friend, as the former was too
much upset by the roughness of the weather to
leave his bed, while Chizzlem Snorker had been
ignominiously expelled from the saloon by the ship's
purser for travelling there with only a fore-cabin
ticket.

The day passed as pleasantly, or as miserably,
according to the temperaments of the passengers,
as a day at sea can pass, and in the evening they
sighted the Needles.

He was leaning over the side of the ship, looking
at the beautiful view before him, when the old
gentleman of the previous night came up and said :

Pretty, ain't it ? "

"It is, indeed, consummately beautiful'*
answered Charles.

'^ Coi means with, summit vulgar for something,
Zy like ; therefore, my young friend , you mean it
is something like a view," chuckled the old
gentleman.

No, or yes,^' answered Charles. " I mean it
is an exceedingly beautiful sight, the rosy sky, the
white cliffs, the ridge of foam fringing the blue
waves, the light in the beacon, the white gulls
flying here and there."

Yes, yes," said the old gentleman ; " I can
fancy a young man like you finding it beautiful."

« Why, don't you ? " asked Charles.

No-o, not particularly. If you asked me if I
found that riverside of beef and those onions
beautiful I could answer you. But that there.
Oh ! I've seen things as could lick that hollow
every year at the Academy."

But this is Nature," protested Charles.

Nature is it ? " said the old gentleman. " Well
I reckon beef is nature, and onions is nature, and
likewise vinegar, so you canst accuse me of not
admiring nature."

Charles could not pursue the question any-further,
so he made no answer, and the old gentleman
went on.

'' Though why the should call those blocks of
stones needles is a geo-graphical knock-me-down.
Muffins is what the look like or a bit of Cheshire
stuck up on its rind."

I believe that one of the rocks which has fallen
into the sea was like a needle," said Charles.

^' So, then les go and drink a glass of grog to
its 'eth. The Submarine needle for ever. Oh !
you don't drink grog, eh ? Well, don't get the
needle yourself. There's nothing to be angry
about."

Charles deprecated the notion of his being angry
with a laugh, and assured the old gentleman that
he was too bad a sailor to indulge in spirits onboard
ship. The old gentleman then left to refresh
himself ; he apparently took some time to
refresh himself, for he had begun refreshing as
soon as he came an board, and to all appearances
was not refreshed yet.

Charles was not sorry to see him go, and
muttering a line of his own.

For brutes with art can never mate,

he turned once more to watch the view, as it developed
like a beautiful panorama before him.

They were just getting into port, when he left
the ship side to see if his baggage was right, and
to look after Fang. The dog, who had howled all
night and made the day hideous with his cries.

was lying very much exhausted on the deck.
Charles got it some water, and while he was bending
over it, he heard the old gentleman cry out,
My watch, my watch. It's gone ! My gold
watch, presented to me by His Grace. Pm
robbed ! Thieves, thieves, thieves ! '^

I'll bet a pound it is that young man you were
talking to just now," said a voice, which Charles
recognised as that of Chizzlem Snorker.

"Bosh," said the old gentleman. "I know
better. He's a poet, and poets don't steal. I
offered him some grog and he wouldn't take it."

Suddenly there flashed across Charles's mind
the indistinct remembrance of what he had
fancied he saw last night. He was in doubt
whether to tell this to the old gentleman, but as
the ship was then fast, and the plank laid for the
passengers to land, and as he feared that by making
such an explanation he might, besides being
put into an awkward position be detained in England,
and be unable to leave for Naples by the
Voorwaarts, he kept quiet, and taking Fang under
his arm left the ship, cleared his baggage through
the custom-house, and had it conveyed to the
gallant Indian mail, the steamship Voorwaarts.

Euphrosyne DE BIENAIMEe's CHILDHOOD.

Euphrosyne DE BiENAiMEE was the only daughter
of Baron Gilleroy de Bienaimee, and his wife the
Baroness Placide. The Bienaimee family was of
high descent, and formerly of great possessions.
No paltry first or second empire title was theirs,
but given them by Charles YIIL, at whose wedding
with Anna of Brittany, Swanhilde dy Bien-aimed,
a direct ancestress of the family carried
the train of the royal bride.

The castle, or, as it is called, La Maison Bien-aimed,
of the family, was in the South of France,
and the Bienaimee demesnes extended over a great
part of v^hat is now the Department of Tarn et
Garonne, reaching as far as the outskirts of the
town of Missa.

The barons were always sturdy vassals of
the Court, and so did not escape the fury of
the Revolution. Indeed, the grandfather, the
Baron Gilleroy, was brought to the guillotine,
after seeing the red cap of the canaille flaunting
on the flagstaff on the highest turret of La Maison
Bienaimee, where formerly the golden fleur-de-lys
of France had proudly waved. In 1 790 their lands
were confiscated, the grand old castle which had
been racked and ruined, was turned into a hostis

wife, the Baroness, Placide, was left with an
only daughter, the little Euphrosyne. After the
death of her husband, being a sensible woman,
and thinking politics no woman's business, she
returned to her beloved and beautiful France.
She bought a pretty little house on the banks of the
Garonne, not far from the town of Moissac, and
settled there, devoting herself to the education of
her beautiful little daughter.

They lived a happy life together, lost in each
other's love, for little Euphrosyne was all that a
child can be to a widowed mother, patient, docile,
yet wonderfully bright and intelligent, and of surpassing
beauty.

In the spring, when the leaves were out and the
river, fringed with sombre rushes, ran bright and
clear through the green flower-spangled meadows,
the Baroness would walk with her little daughter
down a garden walk which wended its way under

lofty trees by the river side, and the tall, dark lady
would tell her little daughter of the doughty deeds
her sires had fought by the same river-side, and
the little girl would drink in the tales of chivalry
and romance as a humming-bird sips in the honey
from some tropic flower. And often in the late
summer evenings the lady of Bienaimee would
drive her little daughter over to see what once
was the proud mansion of her forefathers, and
point out at every turn some spot which had a story
to tell of their brave deeds and manly prowess.
And in the winter when the trusty servant had
heaped the fire high with logs, the stately lady
would draw her high-backed chair to the fireside,
and, taking little Euphrosyne on her lap, would
tell ber once more of the days gone by, and say
or sing the legends of knightly France, before
black coats, the scales and measures of commerce,
and portfolios, bad put loyalty to flight.

What wonder, then, that the little girl's mind,
instead of turning to the world, turned to the
skies ? What wonder that while other children
were being drilled to ape the follies of their seniors,
little Euphrosyne, apart from all, would wander
through the scented fields or twining vineyards,,
aglow with heavenly thoughts. What wonder
that while other children were learning the heartless
formulae of society, this little child of nature,
ignorant of the foolish world without, had
fashioned for herself a world of her own, where
the men were heroes and demigods, the women
as pure as ber fancies, and all moving to the sub-some

worthy friends of the Baroness would
remonstrate now and then with her on the way
in which she was bringing up her daughter. " She
is well-born," they would say, " and will be rich ;
of such birth and with such a dowry as she will
possess, she ought to make a good parti. Why
not bring her to Paris? Why not show her a
little life, and let her mix with her equals, instead
of gambolling in the fields with pleasant lads and
lasses?"

But the answer of the Baroness Bienaimee was
always the same. " She is yet too young, she
must see the true world, the world as Le Bon Dieu
has made it, before she enters the world as woman
has made it. When she grows older, if she tires
of the green fields, and the placid river, and longs
for clothe salons and garish theatres, she will be at
liberty to change. But I could never wish her to
be happier or brighter, or a greater darling to me,
than she is now, and even if she does play with
peasant lads and lasses, she knows her birth, and
preserves a quaint little dignity towards all her
inferiors. I am not at all sure that even in Paris
she could find her equals now-a-days, in Paris,
which acknowledges as its chief a Capet, a Buonaparte,
the descendant of a citizen attorney. So,
with your leave, I shall keep her here."

For all this, however, the Baroness did not neglect
her daughter's education, but had professors

VOL. I. o

over daily from the town of Moissac, to teach her
daughter, and by the time she was seventeen, she
could speak English, Italian, and Spanish fluently.
She never could take to German. Although she
exerted herself very much, for the sake of its
poetry and literature, she found the language so
unmusical that she gave it up.

She read with great eagerness, and was especially
fond of the English poets. Shelley washer
favourite. She threw Byron's works out of
the window before she had read five pages of them,
and washed her hands for touching the book.
"Wordsworth —-fort enmiyeux. Dante was her
favourite Italian poet, she found Tasso too
monotonous. In French literature she read incessantly,
and, one day at the cure's house, hearing
about Voltaire, she asked her mother to get
her his works. As her birthday was near at hand,
her mother ordered the books to be sent, bound in
the most beautiful manner. The books came, and
the Baroness left her daughter reading diligently.
When she came back from her walk, she found
Euphrosyne sitting over the fire with tears in her
eyes.

What is the matter, little daughter ? " she
asked, '' and where are your books ? '^

There ! '^ said Euphrosyne, pointing to the
fire.

"My child''

II n'aime pas le bon Dieu, et le voila."
•X- ^-K- ^ -x-

The first trouble Euphrosyne had arose from

her too affectionate nature. A certain old French
professor, a M. Tacquelin, who taught music, had
grown very fond of his beautiful and clever pupil.
One day, after his lesson was over, he caught
her hand in his and begged her to return his
love.

Euphrosyne looked at him, and said —

Why you know that I love you, M. Tacquelin."

My angel," cried the professor, " do you say
so?"

"Why, yes — M. Tacquelin."

Next day, poor M. Tacquelin, dressed in his best
frock coat, with the red ribbon of the Legion
honneur in his buttonhole, and with his scanty
hair curled in the best Moissac style, drove over
from Moissac, in a hired carriage, to speak to the
Baroness, carrying a large bouquet for Euphrosyne,
though, poor man, he could but ill afford any of
these expenses.

He found the lady in, and, mustering up enough
courage, told the noble lady that he passionately
adored her daughter, Euphrosyne, that she returned
his passion, and that he only needed her
consent to be, as he expressed it, transported to
the Elysian fields.

The Baroness, after listening in mute astonishment
to his proposals, said —

I fear, M. Tacquelin, you have abused my confidence.
It is impossible that my daughter can
return your love."

! madam," cried the professor, " she does ; I
had it from her own dear lips yesterday, after we

had played that beautiful sonata together. Yes,
madam, she does."

The Baroness, who could not help pitying the
unhappy man, whose eagerness and joy must
suffer so great a disappointment, said —

Well, sit down, M. Tacquelin, and put that
bouquet aside for a moment. I will summon
Euphrosyne, and I will hear from her what she
says."

The Baroness then rang the bell, and told the
maid to call Mademoiselle.

Euphrosyne came, and when she saw M. 
ran up to him and said —

Oh ! what a pleasure, monsieur, I never
thought that you had come. Oh, do come and
play to me. What beautiful flowers, M. Tacquelin,
are they for me ? "

M. Tacquelin, throwing a triumphant glance at
the mother, and one of deep admiration on the
beautiful young girl, answered —

Yes, my angel, these are for you, from your
own Robert."

"Wait, M. Tacquelin," said the Baroness.
Euphrosyne, is this true ? Do you love M. 
? "

Yes, mamma."

Did I not say so, madame ? " said the professor,
aglow with pleasure.

But listen, Euphrosyne," continued Madame
de Bienaimee, "you have never told me this, was
that right, my child ? "

Mamma, I love you and I have told you so. I

love M. Tacquelin, and Iliave not told you. Wliy?.
I love all my friends — mamma."

But, child, do you love M. Tacquelin enough
to leave me, and marry him ? Have you a passion
for him ? "

Euphrosyne opened her large blue eyes and

Mamma, I do not understand that word —
passion. Of course I would not leave you. I may
love people, may I not, without having to leave
you? Need I, must I, marry those whom I
love?"

The poor professor, who now saw his mistake,
looked dolefully at the two, picked up his bouquet
and took his hat, with a look at the Baroness as if
deprecating a rough answer.

The lady understood his look, and bade Euphrosyne
retire, which she did, after innocently
throwing a kiss at her unhappy lover.

"Madame La Baroness," said the poor professor,
" do not reproach me ; my heart, my honour,
reproach me enough. I have been mistaken ; she
is but a child, and I am a foolish old man."

The tears came into his eyes as he continued —

But she is so beautiful and so gay, and I am
old and so solitary, that I could not well help,
could I? loving her. Oh, if what she said had
had the meaning I thought it had, how happy
would have been my dreary life. Good-bye, dear
lady, you must wish me to be gone, and I must
go, and must never return again after this. You
will see that, though you shake your head. She

is SO beautiful and I am old and poor, and oh. ! so
solitary."

With that the poor old professor, with a mournful
glance at his gay attire, and at the bouquet
which had fallen from his hand and lay on the
floor, walked mournfully out of the room.

The carriage was waiting for him at the door,
and Euphrosyne was there too. When she saw
him she cried —

'^ Oh dear, M. Tacquelin, do come and play forme.
And where are my flowers — the flowers you
brought for me ? "

The poor professor, who was overwhelmed with
shame and grief, took her beautiful little hand,
bent over it and kissed it, saying —

"Tour mamma will tell you all. Good-bye,
Euphrosyne,'^ got into the carriage and drove
away. But before long he told the driver to stop,
paid him, and told him to return alone to the
town.

I shall get home too soon ; home to my dreary-room,"
said he sorrowfully, as he walked along
the road. He would stop now and then and
look back at the house, and then go sorrowfully
on again, and say to himself, " Old ! and oh, so
solitary ! "

As soon as his carriage was out of sight,
Euphrosyne, who had been looking after him,
waving her hand, returned to the drawing-room,
and said to her mother —

Mamma, explain to me. WTiat did you mean
just now ? And what did M. Tacquelin mean ?

He looked so strange, and lead dressed so nicely ;
and why lie broglie me flowers ? and why he
looked so unhappy when he went away ? His tears
fell on my hand just now as he said good-bye ;
and why you seemed angry ? Does it make you
angry and M. Tacquelin unhappy because I love
him?"

''My dear child," answered the lady smoothing
her brown hair from off her face, "you are still a
child, and there is more than one kind of love.
You love me and you love your playmates, but
poor M. Tacquelin thought you loved him
differently ; loved him so that you could love him
only, in a particular way, and leave me and live
with him.'"'

"Oh, mamma," said Euphrosyne. " I did not
know that. I am so sorry. Poor, dear M. Tacquelin,
How could I know ? I thought I might love you
all and make no one unhappy."

My darling," answered the mother, " dry those
blue eyes of yours. It is not your fault. Poor,
dear M. Tacquelin will soon be happy again. I
see my mistake. You are getting too old to be
kept in ignorance of the world. We must travel''

Travel mamma ! and leave this beautiful spot,
and Bee, and Marie, and Jacques, and poor M.
Tacquelin ? "

Yes, dear. We must see the world, and you
must grow wiser in its ways."

And true to this resolution the Baroness at once
made the necessary arrangements. They went at
first to Paris, and the simple girl was introduced

into the society there. But it had no charm for
lier she did not understand the people or their
talk, and thought them rude and cruel. She was
universally admired for her great beauty and her
unaffected ways, but, as she shunned those who
wished to do her most homage and felt and looked
so unhappy, the polite world, instead of taking the
hint and leaving her alone, doubled its obnoxious
attentions to her. Aye, she soon learnt what love,
as they understand it, was. Love to which the
tender affection and admiration of the shabby old
Moissac professor was as pearls to the decayed
shells of putrid snails.

From Paris they went to London, and the same
was repeated. The perpetual round of what the
world calls pleasure, music, gluttony, dress, and
all appeals to the senses, nothing for the mind.
Operas, balls, feasts, concerts, fancy fairs, and all
follies were placed before the simple Euphrosyne,
the Provence girl, whose head was full of chivalrous
poetry, who had been as innocent as a dove,
and content to pass her life amid her books and
her peasant vassals by the side of old Garonne.

She could not bear it ; to her it seemed unreal,
and the great cities hurt her ; where she saw all
the selfishness of men; where she saw God's
creatures, the animals she loved so well, beaten,
galled, butchered, and devoured, not for the satisfaction
of natural want, but to gratify cruelty
pride, and greed, the extent of which she never
could have dreamt.

They are all the sons of Ishmael'' she once

wearily exclaimed, as she looked down on the
"busy street. "They have their hands turned
against all their fellows. Self, self, is the goddess
which reigns here. Look mother, there ! What
a degraded sight ! Do you see yonder cab, with
the poor broken down horse, an animal so cruelly
used that it bears no more the semblance of its
kind. There — that horse which that drunken
man is lashing so cruelly. I saw a young man, in
full strength, enter that cab. Why ? Not that
he cannot walk, for his strength is greater than
that of the poor beast who has to drag him. But
it is pride, pride, pride ! Mother, why are these
things so ? Does God not love His other creatures
as well as us, we who so abuse His kindness, while
they take of His bounty with moderation and
gratitude ? Oh 1 why are these things so ?"

From London they went through Holland to
Germany, and here the same weariness followed
the bright young girl. Everywhere cruelty, and
greed, and oppression of animals; yes, even weak,
starved dogs harnessed to carts thrice their weight,
dragging at full gallop some hulking, grinning
lout, proud of his turn-out, who now and then
stimulated the wretched animal by applying the
burnings end of his cigar to its back.

This made Euphrosyne most unhappy ; and one
day she prevailed upon her mother to buy one of
these unhappy dogs. It was a large black and
white [Newfoundland dog, which had belonged to a
corps of students, but had been seized by a tradesman
in part payment of a bill for sausages which.

the corps owed him. It was a beautiful dog, but
worn down to a skeleton, with large open wounds
on its back and legs. It was dragging a small
meat-cart, and the butcher boy sat astride on the
top. It looked most jaded and worn, and by the
merciful law of Germany, which muzzles the oxon
the thrashing floor, was so tightly muzzled,
although it was then winter, that it could hardly
breathe, or let its poor, heated tongue cool in the
air.

Euphrosyne managed to purchase it, and took it
home, and tenderly nurtured it. She gave it the
name of Travail.

After staying in Leipzic a month or more, and
after Euphrosyne had again attempted to master
the gutturals of Germany, they went through
Switzerland and made their way to Italy. After
visiting Venice, Florence, and Eome, they travelled
to Naples, which so pleased the ladies that they
decided to stay there some time, and took a villa
between Castellamare and Sorrento, and entered it
on the same day that Charles was making his way
to the same place on board the fast and powerful
steamship, Voorwaarts.

We will now return to Charles and his little-friend
in adversity, fox-terrier Fang.

ON Board THE STEAMSHIP " VC

Whe?? Charles had got himself and his belongings
on board the Voorivaarts, he heard from the
purser, a bluff saintlike old man, who could speak
English, that, owing to some delay in the arrival
of a quantity of bullion which was to be shipped
to Java, the captain had had to put off the starting
till the following evening and that there was
every probability of a further postponement ; he
also learnt that he would have to take his ticket
at the company's offices in Southampton, and that
his dog, who required a special ticket, would cost
him a guinea.

The purser then handed him a list of rules,
printed in English, and bade him read them, as
they contained important directions, which every
passenger by the Nederland Maatschappij had to
observe.

Charles left his luggage on deck, and returned
to the town, passing through the immense docks
and wondering at the proportions of some of the
sea-going monsters, which were in active preparation
for departure, loading huge packages, and
swallowing up streams of people.

The offices of the Nederland Company were, at
that time, nearly opposite the dock-gates, and after

"being carefully examined by an officer of the
Custom-louse, he was allowed to pass out.

His ticket to Naples, including saloon and board,
cost him 15 guineas, and Fang's ticket was another
guinea. After he had settled this, he determined
to lay in a few articles of wardrobe, which would
be useful in the hot climate to which he was
going.

Passing a small "slop-shop" he saw several
Indian helmets and Holland jackets hanging out
for sale, and as he thought these would be useful
to him, he went in.

The master of the shop was a sallow-looking
man, wearing a night cap, and looking generally
as if he had only just risen from his virtuous
couch. A dirty little boy was sitting on the
counter eating some cold potatoes off a tin platter,
on which was engraved a short sermon on the
advantages of moderation and temperance.

Whilst Charles was examining some imitation
bandanas, he happened to notice, in a case of miscellaneous
jewellery which stood on the counter,
a remarkably fine gold watch, which resembled as
nearly as he could remember the watch which he
had seen the Hon. Chizzlem Snorker abstract
from its owner, on board the Hamburg packet.
The dealer, noticing him looking at it, said —
Aye, that's the article for a fine young gent.
You shall have him cheap."

I have a watch of my own'' answered Charles,
and I believe this watch is a stolen one."

The dealer looked at him whistled, laughed, and

said, *^ IVe no doubt it is. I'm sure it is. I only
bought it half-an-hour or so ago. And him what
sold me un looked a rum cove and all'

'' How could you buy it then? " asked Charles,
if YOU knew it to be stolen ? ^'

^' Knew it ? "" cried the dealer, " knew it ? How
am I to know where the highly respectable gent
as sold it to me got un from. Bless your heart, if
we wos to axe to know all the ante-cedent of our
customers, we should never do a bit of biz. There
comes coves here as has nothing at all except
what they have on their backs, and what they
carry in their black bags, similar to you. Don't
I know as well as pot, as they're quills, clerks as
have bolted with the till, and are going abroad to
change their air. Don't I see this when they opens
their bags to pay me, and have nothing but gold
and notes to pay with ? I'm not a going to stand
in my own light for nobody, are I, Joe ? " This
to the dirty little boy.

Either not, old un,^' answered he.

Well'" said Charles. '' You may conduct your
business on whatever principles of morality you
like, but I must ask you to particularly remember
this incident, as it is important, and should you
and your son, there, ever be called to account for
this watch, I hope you may be able to identify the
owner."

He then paid the dealer, and went back to the
ship, where he was mortified to find that he had
paid exactly the double, for the articles he had purchased,
of the prices which were marked on them.

After showing his ticket to the purser, he was
hold to give his dog to one of the sailors to be taken
fore and was then conducted to the berth which
had been assigned to him. This, as he was an
Englishman, was one of the worst in the ship,
being situated in the farthest corner aft, and
shook terribly with the vibrations of the screw.
There were two bunks in his cabin, and as the
lower one was occupied, he placed his smaller
baggage on the upper one. The cabin contained
a washing-stand, a box against the side, which
might serve as an additional sleeping-place if the
ship should be crowded, but was now paying its
double debt as a sofa, the two beds, like shelves ina
chest of drawers, and a few hooks. Over the
washing-stand was printed in large letters that
Het Rooken was forbidden.

Well," said Charles, " I hope rooking is forbidden.
I've been cheated enough already."

The purser, who was with him, explained that
Het Rooken meant smoking, and added that there
was a fine of 500 guldens, gilders he called them,
for doing so, or being detected with any light or
combustible of any sort, on board.

Whilst Charles was taking his first lesson in
Dutch, the co-inhabitant of his cabin appeared,
and was presented to him by the purser as
Mynheer Some.

Mynheer Some, who spoke French, was a
short man, with a very yellow face, and black
eyes and hair. He told Charles he was going out

to join his parents in Batavia, and take command
over a large tobacco plantation.

He proposed the should go on deck, and offered
to introduce him to the other first-class passengers,
the fore-cabin travellers being quite under Mynheer
Some's notice.

The list of passengers seemed to be made up
of merchants, Government officials, and officers,
all of whom were Dutch. In the fore-part of
the ship there were a quantity of troops, going
out to the Dutch Indies, in command of the
officers on board, to help to further subdue the
unhappy Malayans, and carry terror into the hearts
of the warlike Aeschines.

The soldiers, for the most paint, looked miserably
unhappy, and were casting longing glances
at the shore, as if they wished to escape, which as
Mynheer Some pointed out to Charles, was rendered
impossible, and showed him two sentinels
walking up and down on the deck by the side of
the ship, armed with short broad knives.

"You see," said Mynheer, '^ they know that they
will never see their homes again, or their mothers,
or sweethearts. Those that escape the Aeschines,
don't usually escape the snakes, and those that do
escape the snakes, come in for the fever, and the
Government besides don't encoui-age them to return."


^Vhy do they enlist then ? '^ asked Charles.

Ah ! why ? " returned Mynheer. ^' They usually
are the worst of mauvais sujets, can't get work todo,

or won't do it , and so have to do soldiering.
They are tempted by the 200 gilders and about
1,000 cigars, which they get as Queen's shilling
when they enlist. As soon as the money has gone
in schnaps and the cigars are smoked, they would
like to draw back. They hate it like poison. Why,
as we came over to Southampton from Antwerp,
one of them jumped overboard. If it wasn't for
that watch, we should lose them all, and, as it is,
a good many do get ashore, and then they're free
you know, in your strange-principled England's

fellows," said Charles, looking at the
misery and regret so plainly stamped on their fair
fresh faces, so soon to be blackened by the glaring
sun, the poisoned bite, the enemies' dart, or the
cruel hand of death. " They have sold their
liberty for 200 guldens and a few cigars. ^^

And as he noticed their longing glances at
strange-principled England's by setting foot on
which they would recover their bartered freedom,
he felt for the first time the glory of our motherland,
and a deep regret at leaving it.

That night, while lying in his bed listening to
the snores of Mynheer below, and the hurrying
tramp of the sailors on duty above, he heard aloud
splash in the water, and heard someone crying —

"A bond is overboard."

A dog overboard," cried he, jumping up. " It
is Fang," and throwing on his ulster, rushed on
deck.

Here he saw one or two Mynheer looking calmly
over the side, and some sailors lowering a boat

their phlegmatic behaviour contrasting strongly
with the excitement of a crowd of Englishmen on
the landing.

What is it ? what is it ? " cried Charles, to
the purser who was smoking quite at his ease.
Is it my dog ? ''

No, Mynheer," answered the purser, removing
his cigar leisurely. *' It is only one of the soldiers.
We can get him out, and he is a fool to have
jumped in. He had over 500 cigars left''

By the time the boat eras lowered, and the men
thoroughly awake, there was not the slightest
chance of saving the man, or of recovering his
body, which, by the way, no one even seemed to
think about ; his dead body being of no use to help
the Dutch in their tyranny over Malayans. One
Englishman, it is true, who had witnessed the unhappy
act, had nobly plunged into the water from
the dock stairs, but the tide that was fast running
out, and the darkness of the night had rendered it
impossible to him to help the suicide.

The next day a board was put up, telling the
passengers that the ship would sail that evening
at seven, and at that hour the ship unfastened her
moorings and steamed slowly down the Solent.
Charles, who had spent all the day in wandering
about Southampton, and gazing on English
faces, and written letters to all his friends, could
not move from the stern bulwarks until the last
glimpse of English land was lost, and with a kiss
thrown to the country which had born him, he gave
himself up to the gloomy future.

VOL. I. P

Life on board the good ship, Voorivaarts, seemed
to consist chiefly in eating and drinking, with
variations of smoking, and playing a sort of game
of skittles on the deck, or gambling at cards below.


At half-past six in the morning there was a substantial
breakfast of coffee, ham, e^'gs, and cold
accessories of all kinds, at half-past ten there was
a most solid lunch of three courses, exclusive of
dessert and cheese; at one o'clock there was
verwrischung , or refreshment, which consisted of
bouillon, or chocolate, with rusks or cakes; at
five o'clock there was an enormous dinner of seven
courses, and at half-past eight there was thee drunken,
where cup after cup of tea was drunk, and further
cakes consumed.

Charles, at first, found this extensive eating
rather curious, but what with the sharpening
which the sea air gave to his appetite, and the
dulness of life on board, he soon learnt to appreciate
the comforts of repeated meals, and fell to
with almost as much zest as the Dutchmen themselves.


He did not, the first day, mix much with the
society on board, but sat apart, reading " Foley
by Ouida, but, finding this bored him, he
resolved to associate with his new friends.

The next day he accosted one of the young
lieutenants, who was a civil and good-looking young
man, and was told by him that he had thoroughly
proved himself a steer Engelsmmi (a stiff Englishman),
and that the men were offended with him

for keeping apart, while the ladies thought him
Tery ruder not having introduced himself to them.

Charles, who had wisdom enough to do in Rome
as the Romans do, promptly apologised for his
behaviour, on account of his ignorance of the
Dutch customs, and asked the lieutenant to present
him to the ladies.

There were five ladies on board, to which of
whom, had Charles been appointed a second Paris,
he would have hesitated to accord the golden
apple, for all were as plain as convalescent badgers,
but with that peculiar cow-like playfulness which
distinguishes the countrywomen of the late Von
Tromp. The only one who had any pretensions
to good looks, was a young lady who was going
ont with her newly married husband, a customhouse
official, and who reminded Charles, as often
as he saw her, of a frolicsome elephant, or a calf
in love with its life, bounding in a field.

This happy couple made no pretence of keeping
their love to themselves, but were always kissing
and loving each other; and often after a particularly
greasy dinner, would fall asleep in the
saloon, locked in each other's arms.

The servants on board were all Malayans, short,
stunted men, of a yellow complexion and ugly
type. They were just treated like slaves, although
1859 had emancipated them from actual slavery.
They were not beaten, for they would soon have
resented that, being the most revengeful and
treacherous people on the face of the earth, but
were always addressed like dogs.

Their chief duty seemed to be to bring a glowing
fuse whenever anyone shouted Kasi api,
which two words Charles soon learnt to mean
bring fire." His further knowledge of the tongue
of Malay consisted in two other words, zulu, milk,
and gulf, sugar ; so that he found himself, so far
as this vocabulary would go, on speaking terms
with the domestics of the Voorwaarts, and could
shout Kasi api, Kasi zulu, and Kasi gulf, as well
as the best of the paunchy Mynheer.
/ As an Englishman, he was naturally exposed to
a good deal of chaff and mild imposition, in the
way of standing drinks, and losing at cards or
skittles ; but after warning one particularly objectionable
young man, who was going out to
Surabaya, en adventurer, that he should hold him
responsible for what he said, and would demand
satisfaction of him at Staples if he persisted in
offending him, which effectually closed the Dutchman's
mouth, he found it possible to live comfortably
and even amicably.

Beyond eating and drinking, smoking and playing,
strolling about the ship, watching the soldiers
at work peeling huge pots of potatoes, or standing
in line to receive their pannikins of wine, or the
more dramatic incident of the slaughter of some
beast for food, there was not much variety in life
on board. Fang had a very good time of it, for
the soldiers, who had never seen a fox-terrier,
admired him very much, and petted and fed him
with great kindness.

On the fourth or fifth day they sighted land.

and the bleak and rocky coast of Southern Spain,
with here and there a rude nunnery cnt into the
rocks, came in view. Passing through the waters
which shall never cease to tell of Nelson and his
glory, on the morning of the sixth day they
reached Gibraltar, about which the objectionable
young mean remarked that it ought to belong to
the Netherlands, and that the Dutch weren't quite
decided whether or not to take it from the English.
Charles looked in wonder at this powerful fortress,
so nobly won by English prowess, and his heart
beat high, as on the flagstaff at the summit of
this lofty rock, he descried, in answer to the
signals from the ship, the bright Union Jack of
Old England floating in the clear morning air.
He could not help thinking though, as he crossed
the deck, and looked at the coast of Africa and
the beetling crags thereof, why no power had ever
thought it worth their while to counterbalance the
power of Gibraltar by building a fortress on that
side.

The long voyage through the Mediterranean
had now begun, and the deck was covered in with
awning, and the Malayans put on their costumes
for hot weather, and looked quite picturesque in
their pure white tunics edged with a broad clovis
of red. They sighted no more land after getting
well into the Mediterranean, as the ship made no
stoppages between Southampton and Naples, and
Charles was obliged to divert himself with the
company. He made acquaintance with the ship's
doctor, who was in a perpetual state of intoxication,

and very proud of knowing some English
obscenities and of being able to sing the hideous
rhyme of —

Good-bye, Charlie, when you are at sea,
Don't forget the letter, love,

wherein this swain is further adjured by the lady
of his love, who is certainly rather mercenary —

Never mind the letter, love,
Only send the money, love,
Good-bye, Charlie, when you are at sea.

At about six on the morning of the tenth day,
Charles was awakened by Mynheer Some to
witness the entry into the famous Bay of Naples.
The first thing he saw on coming on deck was the
Island of Capri, which they had just passed. He
was able to see the entrance to the fairy-like Grotto
Azure, and the Rock of Tiberius, from which that
benevolent prince used to hurl the victims of his
cruelty or lust into the foaming sea. The morning
was not very clear, and of Vesuvius or the town he
could observe nothing as yet. On his left he
noticed the Island of Ischia, which looked like a
huge lava-strewn rock, though he could here and
there see some refreshing patch of green. The
Island of Procida couching like some swarthy
leviathan of the deep in the grey waves next
came in view. Then, as the ship made its way,
the beautiful panorama unrolled itself, and Posi-
lips, in all its charm, was seen. On the right,
through thick banks of clouds, the fiery peak of
Vesuvius clave the air, and finally the city of Parthenope
was seen. As most voyagers, I believe.

are, so was Charles disappointed with, the appearance
of Naples at first. The city seemed too small
and the hills very low and over all the houses
hung a yellow mist. But gradually the whole
broke up into detail, and the colours and life
of the gay wharf of Santa Lucia could be discriminated.
Then there appeared the massive red
building, the town palace of the King. The
clouds having cleared away, Charles could distinguish
Vesuvius in its weird attractiveness, gloating
over the bright little town of Portico, which lies at
its feet.

At last the ship dropped anchor, and the doctor,
who had put himself on short allowance the day
before, the purser, and one of the officers went
ashore in a boat to obtain permission to land, which
is not accorded without a doctor's certificate of
health for those on board.

The hour during which they were absent was
by no means a dull one, for what with the varied
shipping and all the novelty of the sight, Charles
was too deeply interested to care how the time
went. Presently boats came alongside, some
freighted with urchins, who, throwing ofi" their
clothing in a most naive and natural manner,
plunged into the yellow water and exhibited their
powers in swimming, or cried for " money in the
water, money in the water," and when a coin had
been dropped from the ship by one of the
passengers dived down after it, never failing to
get it. Others brought musicians gaily clad, who
enlivened the bright scene with their merry airs.

wbicli are familiar as evening breezes to the
Neapolitans.

At last the certificate arrived, and Charles was
enabled to go on shore. He had an immediate
introduction to Neapolitan morality by being asked
to pay 20 francs to the boatman who conveyed him
and his luggage to the landing where the customhouse
was. But as in the same boat there was a
Dutch captain, who had also come off the ship,
and who had been particularly noticed by
Charles for the fact that he had never taken ofP
his spurs on board, who spoke Italian, Charles
managed to get off with paying three francs. As
soon as he "rot ashore he was surrounded with a
swarm of harpies, hotel-touts, porters, cab-drivers,
et hoc genus omne. Having decided to patronise
the Hotel Eoyal des Strangers, he chose the tout
of that hotel, who helped to clear his baggage of
the custom-house, and conveyed him to the hotel,
where he swindled him of about a pound, assuring
him, in broken English, " You are not cheated
one half-penny, upon my honour and the Holy
Virgin."

Charles's room was a very pleasant one, paved
with blue tiles, and cool.

Having seen his baggage put in, and escaping
the importunity of a waiter who wished to sell him
some tobacco and cigars, warranted to be smuggled,
but which in truth had been abstracted from the
travelling bags of previous visitors, he got out into
the town, and made his way in a carriage to the
Post-office.

RECOGNITION,

As soon as Charles had entered the gateway of
the enormous Post-office he saw, facing him on the
opposite side of the court, three windows where
letters were being distributed. The first on the
right was for letters addressed to people whose
names began with the first eight letters of the
alphabet, and going to this he asked if there were
any letters for Benson.

"Aston, signore," answered the official.

Any for Hauberk, then ? "

The official looked at him suspiciously and asked
for his card, which he tendered, and after some
rummaging on the part of the official, and many
references to his carte-de-visite, he had quite a
packet of letters handed to him.

One was from Lovell, bearing the Leipzic postmark
, and there were several, addressed from Keswick,
in Miss Crosthwaite's writings.

Lovell's letter was only a short one, expressing
the writer's hope that Charles had got to his destination
safely, and ending with many asseverations
of friendship.

The first three from Keswick which he opened
contained only bills from Oxford, and in others
-were notes from Messrs. Ferguson and Walker, of
that city, requesting Mr. Charles Benson to favour

them with an interview at their office, on or before
that same day, in re of Eoe, Doe, &c., in order to
stop "further legal proceedings." These polite
invitations were addressed to Keswick, and had
been forwarded bj Miss Dorothy. Charles made
short work of these letters, and tearing them, bills
and all, into fragments, considerably startled a
group of bright-plumaged doves, who were taking
the morning sun in the middle of the Post-office
courtyard, by showering the fragments upon
them, and teaching them what snow was, at least,
what snow looks Uke, an experience which, lucky
birds, they don't often get in Southern Italy.

The last letter was one from Dorothy herself,
and also contained an enclosure. It was the letter
which had contrived to get lost in going to Leipzic,
and had been returned to Keswick through the
Dead (and often buried) Letter Office. The real
letter was as follows : —

Keswick.
"Mt Dear Charles, —

I don't blame, but I don't praise this
step. But you can be a good man at Naples as
well as at Leipzic. I don't suppose there is much
beer to be had there. Your purse is slender, but
you must make it do, and eat plenty of lazzaronis
or maccaroni — or what it is ?
Write soon to your affectionate

Dorothy."

"Pes. — I suppose I must call you Egregious
SiGNORE now ? "

The second, letter, which it will be remembered
was to tell of the sequel of Miss Crosthwaite's
adventure with Mrs. White and Lawyer Bennett,,
was this : —

"Grosvenor Hotel,

"London, W.

My Dearest Chaeles, —

My rather curious adventure of yesterday
has had an equally remarkable sequel to-day.

You remember in my yesterday's letter I told
you about Lawyer Bennett and his promise to come
and see my unfortunate young protegee.

"You can imagine that I was rather anxious
about this meeting, as, of course, it would have
been unfortunate for me if I had had to be
burthened with this young woman, of whom I
really know, or knew, nothing.

She was equally anxious to see this gentleman,
for as it has turned out he is an old acquaintance
of hers, and when I mentioned his name to
her she remembered it at once.

Lawyer Bennett was to come to-day at twelve
o'clock, and punctually at that time his cab drove
up to the hotel door. He was as cheerful as ever,
and asked me to go into the bedchamber and see
if the young party was ready to see him.

'^ I went in and helped the young woman to
dress. She is still very weak, and could hardly
walk, but with the help of little Dorothy's arm
and the support of Alice, the chamber-maid, we
managed to get her into the sitting-room.

Lawyer Bennett was sitting at the table writing,
with his back towards us. As soon as we entered
he turned round. His glance at the girl was at
first one of mere curiosity, but this turned at once
into a stare of amazement and of the most startled
surprise.

"esther ! ' he cried, darting forward towards
her. ' Is it ? Can it be Esther ? Yes, I see it is.
By the powers. Miss Crosthwaite, you do not know
what a service you have done me and another
young man of my acquaintance. By the powers,
once more, if only poor Lord " —

Monsieur," said a voice behind Charles, interrupting
him in his perusal of his letter, " Monsieur,
will you permit me to pass? "

Charles had been standing in the large entrance
to the Post-ofBce, where there is always a large
crush of people. He turned round and saw that
he had been addressed by a footman in livery,
whose buttons were decorated with a baronial
crown and the initial " B." He made room for the
man to pass, and was beginning to read the continuation
of his letter when the crush of men
hurrying in and out became so great that he determined
to shift his position to the neighbouring
Cafe Delia Posta, where he could read his letter
to advantage ; but, as he crossed the road, his
attention was once more called to the footman
who had addressed him. He saw this person
cross the road in front of him, and go up to a
carriage and pair that were standing on the

opposite side of the road, just behind the terminus
of the tramway rails. In the carriage Charles saw
two ladies. One was elderly and the other young.
The elder of the two sat on the side nearest him,
so he did not see the face of the younger one till
she bent forward to take the packet of letters
from the servants hand. At once Charles recognised
her. It was his queen of the night. It was
the beautiful girl he had seen viewing the beauties
of the moonlit heavens in the dreary town of
Leipzic on that memorable evening. It was the
woman whom he had made his ideal ; she whose
love he had vowed to win. It was Euphrosyne de
Bienaimee. How came she here ? What in the
world brought her from Paris to Naples? By
what lucky chance had this been brought about ?
Was it really she ? Yes, it was ; but was she
going to stay ? Where did she live ? Where
could he see her again ? These, and many other
thoughts rushed through Charles's head with
greater speed than that with which the deep blush
which mantled his cheek came, died out, and came
again.

The Baroness having received the letters, told
the servant to get up with the coachman and drive
on. Just then, Euphrosyne's eyes caught the
ardent glance which Charles was casting on her.
He was a handsome boy, was Charles, with his long
black hair and his large fiery eyes, whose darkness
was the more set off by the refined paleness of his
countenance. And then he was tall and well-made,
and had about him an expression of

Poetical melancholy and aristocratic nonchalance
which were in marked contrast to the fussy,
flurried, excited appearance of the small grubby-business
men who were hurrying in and out of the
post-office all about. So I don't know — I aren't
quite say, but I fancy Mille. Euphrosyne was
struck and did not mind his glance, or, to speak
honestly, rather liked it. This was the first time
their eyes had ever met, and where could eyes
meet Better than there, where all the glory of the
southern sun lit up the love-light in the eyes of
the one and admiration in the eyes of the other.
Love-light and admiration are very pretty things,
but the baroness's carriage was taken by the hour,
and the steamer for Sorrento leaves the old harbour
at one o'clock precisely (wind and weather permitting),
and these very practical circumstances
soon broke up the pretty 2^ose — this charming
tableau scene — and off rolled Madame and mademoiselle
down the busy Strada Medina towards the
Molo, leaving Charles with his bundle of letters in
his hands.

No more Cafe Delia Posta for Charles. He was
not going to lose sight of Mademoiselle ; so hailing
a cab he bade the cabman follow the carriage >
ahead. The cabman did not or would not understand
for a moment or two (sections of eternity
to poor love-lorn Charles), but a franc in advance
helped to explain matters, and Charles was able
to follow the Baroness's carriage. Down the
Strada Medina, along the Strada del Molo, past
the custom-house with its towering Virgin protecting

the frauds within, and up to the landing
place of the Sorrento-Capri steamer.

Here the Baroness and Euphrosyne had got out,
and Charles was in time to see them with their
servant embark in a small boat and be rowed off
to a small steamer, bound for Sorrento, which is
about an hours voyage from Naples. Charles
saw from the smallness of the steamer that it could
not be bound for a long voyage, so he felt assured
that his Euphrosyne was not going very far away.
He knew a little Italian, and was able to ask where
the steamer was going to, and learnt that it went
no further than Sorrento.
"Over there," said the Italian, pointing to a
little village which could just be seen about halfway
along the long peninsula, which, with Vesuvius
for its base, runs out into the sea, forming the
southern limit of the Bay of Naples.

Though pestered by all kinds of people with all
kinds of wants, some wishing to take him a
row, some wishing to dance the tarantella for
him, some offering to dive for such halfpence
as he might be prepared to throw into the water,
others offering him all kinds of commodities from
tortoiseshell combs and coral beads to nispelli and
oranges, from views of Naples to an African
monkey, Charles was able to follow the course of
the boat to the steamer with his eyes, and after
the Baroness and her party had embarked he still
stood there till the steamer set off carrying with
it, what to his foolish imagination seemed his
dearest thing in life.

As soon as the steamer was fairly out of the
harbour Charles turned back, and took another cab
back to his hotel. On the way thither he remembered
Dorothy's letter and looked for it ta
continue reading it. But where was it ? It wasn't
among the papers he still held in his hand, and it
certainly wasn't in any of his pockets. He had
lost it — in fact, in his excitement in recognising
Euphrosyne at the post-office, it had dropped from
his hand, and had been left lying in the street,
and with it a revelation which might have changed
the whole course of Charles's life, and which most
certainly must have had a great influence on his
character and happiness.

The loss did not trouble Charles much. In fact
he had not given the contents of the letter much
attention, and was too much occupied with his own
thoughts, and with the excitement at the novelties
all around him to remember them. Besides,
he had long since forgotten Dorothy's first letter
and the sequel did not interest him much.

"Another good thing gone wrong," said he
only, as his cab turned the corner of the busy
street of Santa Lucia into the beautiful Vivere de
Chiaja on which the Hotel des Etrangers is
situated.

He reached this in a few minutes, and after
ordering dinner, went to his room, and wrote some
letters, during which process he was frequently interrupted
by servants of the hotel, offering him
new cakes of soap for sale, new Savannah cigars
and cigarettes, warranted smuggled wares.

One of Charles great faults ^Yas his inability to
say, " No " at the proper time, especially when his
vanity or pride were concerned.

So that when a beautifully whiskered and languid
waiter offered Charles a packet of Tunis cigarettes,
at five francs a packet, their real value being about
4d., Charles was booby enough to think, that
being a Hauberk, and having to keep up appearances,
he could not refuse to buy them, and felt
himself quite justified when the exquisite of
gardens took his five francs with a " Thank you,
minor."

Thought Charles : ^^ This is a polite man, he
knows the world, and respects the degrees in the
social scale. I must reward him, and encourage
him in his very laudable humility." And out went
another five francs from his little stock into the
waiter's pocket.

Thought the waiter : '^ Here is another foolish
young Englishman. I must see what I can get
out of him. If a minor fetches five francs, 1 ought
to get something better for an excellent." And
so he said —

Would your ■'Cellenza like some beautiful views
of Naples, or would your Serenity like to drive tonight,
or does your Alters desire a cake of pure
Windsor soap for the toilette table of your
Excellence? Or does the Splendid Signor request
" —

But Charles had done, and there were no more
five-franc notes forthcoming. His first one was

VOL. I. Q

wasted, for you cannot buy respect and the waiter
only thought him a snob, a gull, a foolish boy, and
finally a very avaricious, and probably needy young
man. That is what Charles' five francs had bought
him.

Of course Charles was not so utterly reckless as
to propose to stay many days at so luxurious an
hotel ; and so he spent the time before dinner in
walking about the streets looking for a lodging.

He had a good deal of trouble in finding one,
especially as his knowledge of Italian was a very
defective one. Some people asked him enormous
prices for a shabby little room, and not knowing
then that a Neapolitan usually asks twelve times
the amount he is prepared to take for his commodity,
he came to no terms with these. Other
proprietors of lodgings refused to take in his dog
at any price.

It was late in the evening before he saw anything
to suit, and it was only after much searching
and many annoyances, as he was on his way back
to the hotel, that he saw outside a house in the
street Santa Lucia a board with the announcement,
now well-known to him,

Stanza Mobiltata a Locate.
On enquiry at the porter's lodge, he found the
room was on the fourth floor. He did not like
the appearance of the proprietor, a tall, fat man
with a red beard, who came out in a pair of
trousers and a night-shirt, which from its appearance
had probably been worn for a month or more
nighfc and day.

The room was not very satisfactory either. It
was small, paved with irregular bricks, and
furnished in the meanest and poorest style. There
was a rickety little bed and a chair ; these, with a
few nails driven into the white (?) washed walls,
were all its comforts.

*' This will never do," said Charles to the proprietor.


'soh, by the love of the Holy Madonnas' said
Luigi, " do not, do not look at the room as it is
now. When your Excellency enters it tomorrow
it will be changed, oh, changed. It will no longer
resemble me for its ugliness and poverty, but will
almost outshine the splendid Signore in beauty
and elegance.-'''

'' What is the price of this room ? '^

Wait, Signore. I will call my wife's"*

The wife was a fat little woman who appeared
good-natured.

The price they asked was eighty francs a month.

"Eighty francs a month ! " said Charles, 'for
a wretched room on the fourth floor, furnished as
this is '? "

After many appeals to the Virgin Mary, backed
by occasional invocations to San Luigi and Santa
Teresa, their patron saints, the couple agreed to
take Charles for fifty-five francs a month, and got
him to pay two months in advance. They had
agreed outside to take him for half the money,
only he did not bargain well enough.

He arranged that the proprietor should come
and fetch his luggage the next morning, and haying

got a receipt for his money, lie departed to the
hotel for his dinner.

Next day he was duly installed in his room.
This had undergone none of the startling arrangements
of which the landlord had spoken, and with
the exception of an additional nail which had
been knocked into the wall, and an old cracked
waterman, which had been placed in one corner,
the room was in the same state of needy shabbiness
as on the yesterday. He had paid in advance,
and therefore the proprietors had lost all farther
interest in him.

His hotel bill was not very large ; the Hotel des
Etrangers is luxurious without being exorbitantly
dear. For bringing his boxes from the Hotel to
the house, a distance of less than three hundred
yards, the facchini demanded fifteen francs. They
went away rejoicing after receiving five. They
would have gone away contented with two.
Two francs represented unlimited maccaroni.
Unlimited maccaroni is the ultimate dim Thule
of many poor Neapolitans.

Although Charles was very dissatisfied with the
room and its furniture, there was in it one redeeming
feature which, in his romantic mind, fully
compensated for its other disagreements. It looked
out on to the street, the street of Santa Lucia.

-Charles spent nearly two hours his first evening
there, after he had unpacked and arranged his
things, in standing on the little balcony, watching
now the busy scene below, now the glorious pano-^
mama beyond.

For right opposite to liim^ beyond the blue neck
of sea, studded with many boats, ships, and
steamers of all kinds, from the little felucca
fishing-smack to the leviathan man of war,
lay in all its majestic glory the ominous crater of
Vesuvius, casting up at times volumes of smoke
and flame, whose menacing hues contrasted
strangely with the perfect serenity of the rosy-tinted
evening sky, and the perfect tints which
lay over all the rest of the peninsula, varying
from purple to the blue-grey and dark olive
which coloured its extremities, or blended with
the mist which hung about the islands in the far
east.

The absolute quiet of nature presented a strong
contrast to the undignified bustle of mankind
below. The street of Santa Lucia is the most
characteristic street in Naples. It is here that
the strange incongruities and marked peculiarities
of the Neapolitan character can be studied the
best. It forms, as it were, the meeting place of
the St. James' and St. Giles', of the Faubourg St.
Germain and the Faubourg du Temple of Naples.
It is the link between the aristocracy of the Chiaja
and the poverty of the Molo. Here, too, can be
seen plied with full activity all those trades which
could flourish nowhere else but in Naples.

Men of all sorts and conditions meet, pass,
elbow and jostle each other in this wildest,
liveliest, most noisy of streets. Dainty fops
dressed in the latest Paris fashions, brawny coral
fishers returned from a voyage off the coast of

Africa, with bare legs,, neck, and arms, dressed in
striped jerseys and coloured caps, which show off
their gaudy hues well against the black hair,
swarthy complexions and flashing eyes of the
wearers ; staid merchants hurrying home, naked
little vagabonds prowling in the gutters, or playing
the most natural games on the pavement, or
darting to pick up whatever fruit might fall from
the well-laden stalls that fringe the sides of the
street; water-carriers clad in bright rags, with
their polished water-cans, gleaming in the sun,
slung over their shoulders ; peasant women returning
from the mineral water well with their
quaintly-modelled jars gracefully poised on their
heads, all picturesque, all natural, all beautiful ina
peculiar way. The crowd has its grotesque
people too ; the Englishman abroad is there, clad
in the conventional straw hat, with a blue ribbon
round it, the same broad-patterned tweed, carry-his
red guide-book in one hand and a large
umbrella in the other; the half-drunk peasant,
executing a clumsy dance to the music which a
gartered Calabria is making by humming in his
hands; the numberless beggars and cripples, exposing
their ghastly deformities to those who are
slack in giving them alms. All these, and many
other curious illustrations of humanity, are here,
hurrying to and fro between the carriages which
throng the streets. The Royal State carriages,
rolling in grandiose dignity to the fashionable
promenade oh the Riviera, are outstripped by a
one-horse cart laden with as many peasants over

the twenty or thirty who can comfortably accommodate
themselves therein as can cling to it,
dashing home at full speed from some wedding or
outing in the big town. The conveyances are as
little in harmony with each other as the foot
passengers ; there are the smart tramways gliding
along side by side with the wretched little donkey
cart of an itinerant fruiterer, with the gaily bedight,
bell-collared, be-ribbon, mule-drawn trap
of some well-to-do farmer or grape-grower, with
cabs in all stages of decay, with the beautiful
carriages of the nobility.

The noises which arise from this street are
most remarkable. Above the cracking of whips,
the splashing of oars, the whistling of the
steamers in the offing, the jangle of the bells on
the herds of kine and goat which are driven from
door to door by a milk-selling peasant, the shriek
of the tramway-car whistle, there arises one perpetual
roar of human voices, the cries of the
owners of the fruit-stalls praising their wares —
"Ecco dei bei dispel, Ecco dei branch ; " the fish
merchants crying their wares — "Ecco dei
austreach ? Frutti di mar. Frutti di mar ; " the
water-carriers with their perpetual — "Aqua
fresco, Aqua fresco, Chi voi ber, Aqua fresco,
Chi voi ber ; " the newspaper hawkers shouting —
Ecco il Pun, Piccolo, Pongo Picco-pungolo ; ''
the cabman touting — " Una vettur ! Una vettur !
Eacciam' una passegia','^ all yelling, gesticulating,
and moving.

All this busy life on one hand, all the serene

dignity on the other. To the lover of man the
street, to the lover of nature the scene, man
showing his weakness by his very excitability.
Nature speaking eloquently, in the serenity of her
silence, of her immense garnered-up power. The
mutability of man. The eternity of nature. The
pigmy. The Titan. The weakness of man shown
in the struggling mass of men below, the power of
nature in the mighty arm of the ocean, the
eternal hills, and above all in the fearful mountain,
breathing fire, quiet as a tiger prepared to spring
is quiet, holding a perpetual watch, suggesting an
eternal menace.

These were some of the observations and reflections
which Charles made as he watched the daylight
fade away on his second night at Naples,
and marked the transition in the street from day
to night, saw a hundred lights gradually being
lit, from the lamps in the harbour and on the
vessels to the little gaudy oil lamps hung on the
water stalls, between the fresh festoons of green
leaves, lemons, and flowers.

It was all so new, so strange, so appealing to his
mind, that long after he had gone to bed, and as
lie lay watching through the open window the intermittent
glare of Vesuvius, his thoughts kept
him occupied; and now no longer did he regret
that he had changed the cold, unsympathetic North
for the intense glories of the South.

The life he proposed to lead was a life of
romantic poverty. Many have had this dream.

even those who had the alternative of abiding in
the solid comforts of affluence. It was this feeling
that brought Charles the Fifth from his imperial
throne to the lowly cell of a Spanish monastery,
and made him change his robe of purple for the
sombre cowl of a monk. It is this feeling that,
when translated to us by men like Balzac Henri
Murder, or Alfred de Russet, leads us to envy the
pinched and uncomfortable lives of the needy
students in their garrets in the Quartier Latin of
Paris. It is this feeling that is the principle of
the school of Wordsworth, the high-thinking and
plain-living school. Finally, this is the feeling
which drives men from the warm life of the outer
world into the cold and dreary monotony of the
cloister brotherhood, and comforts the Trappist in
his lonely, silent, perpetual misery. To live on a
few sous a day, and work hard to raise his mind,
and developed his inborn poetry, to live unselfishly
this was Charles's dream. At the end he saw in
radiance as his prize, his reward, the face of the
loved girl, who was sleeping tranquilly beyond the
water, on the other side of the bay, in her myrtle
brown villa.

They were both sleeping, and who can say
whether in the tranquil night their spirits, their
hopes, their virtues and strength, personified into
beautiful angels, did not meet in the glorious
night, and hold a gentle commune with each
other.

The night thickened, but through all the fiery

sentinel kept unceasing watch, till the bright sun
dawning behind the Apennines made its lesser
liofht invisible, and woke the town. The deserted
street resumed its bustling light, the cry once
more went skywards, and Charles awoke.

DISCONTENT.

Chaeles began his life at Naples with laudable
tenacity to his resolutions, and for the first few
days carried out his proposals of living humbly
and studying hard with great regularity.

He rose early — those who live in the street of
Santa Lucia do not need alarum clocks to awake
them — and procured his breakfast for himself.
Luigi, the landlord, and Teresa his wife had, it ia
true, suggested that he should receive his coffee
and roll in the morning from them, at the moderate
rate of two francs per day ; but Charles was
not prepared to take breakfast at that rate. He
used to go down the street and buy a pennyworth
of bread and a few cherries or other fi-its, and
bring these back under his arm, in a bit of paper,
to breakfast on in his room. In doing this he
thought of Marius, that weakest of Victor Hugo's
heroes. After two or three days he found that
this diet was not strong enough, and so he commissioned
an old chamber-woman, who lived on
his floor, to procure him a daily supply of milk for
two sous, as an addition to his humble repast. He
sometimes, when he felt hungry, used to stand at
the top of the stairs and watch for her return ;
and it was not pleasant to him to see her one day
taking refreshment out of the glass which contained

his milk at each, of the four landings. After
this discovery he went for the milk himself.

He lunched and dined humbly enough, at first,
at different restaurants in the town, and applied
himself with diligence to his tasks. He had all
his books with him, and was enabled to continue
the line of study which had been interrupted. In
addition to the ordinary work, he devoted two or
three hours a day to the study of Italian.

In this way he lived at least a week, when an
event, trifling in itself, but of importance in the
disturbing effect it produced on Charles, took
place.

Charles, it will be remembered, had a sum of
money about him. At this period it amounted to
about ten Napoleons, or eight pounds ; the rest of
his money, about forty-five pounds, was lying in
Miss Crosthwaite's bank at Penrith.

He kept this money in a purse locked in a small
box in his portmanteau. One day as he was taking
from his little store the pence necessary for that
day's expenses, he was interrupted by the landlord,
who had come in on some trifling business. The
next day when he went to his box again, he was
horrified to see that of the ten Napoleons only five
remained. Of course, there was no doubt who had
taken it, so he rang his bell and Luigi appeared.

Charles, who was in a state of great distress and
excitement, addressed him at once.

Look here ! " he said, " I have been robbed —
I have had five Napoleons taken from my box, I
have been robbed of one hundred francs."

What ? " cried Luigi, with the best counterfeit
of amazement and horror that Charles had ever
seen ; " What, Signor ? Robbed in this house ! iu
the room of Luigi Calvary ! On the day of our
most Holy Virgin's Annunciation ! " (Here the fat
rascal crossed himself.) " Neo, Signor, that is not
possible. Such words coming even from the lips of
your Excellency, from the mouth of your Serenity
cannot be believed by Luigi, who, as you see, is in
the extremities of grief, despair, and anguished

It had not taken Charles very long to learn to
appreciate at their right value the statements and
assurances of the Neapolitans, so, without paying
any attention to the wild exclamations of the man,
he drew his watch from his pocket and laying it
on the table he said, with a degree of firmness
which astonished himself, "The money has been
taken. Unless it is returned within ten minutes I
shall go to the police. If the police do not give me
satisfaction I shall go to the English Consul's,

sir, sir ! '' said Luigi, pressing forth a few
oily tears. " You must be mistaken. Make up
your accounts again. Add up the figures'

You have heard what I intend to do. One
minute has passed'

By our holy Saint Louis " —
One minute and a half."

Stop, Signor ; Luigi has a partner in his

affliction and disgrace. I will fetch her. She will

be as a mother to you in your grief. While I am

gone make up your accounts — add up the figures

went and returned with Teresa. They

"both tried their utmost, crying and screaming at
intervals, to persuade the young man that his loss
was an imaginary one.

Charles remained firm, and with his watch in
his hand let them talk themselves out. As the ten
minutes elapsed he got up to go. The two redoubled
their tears, their cries, their screams.

Sir," said Luigi, " this is a most respectable
house. Never has an agent of the Public Security
looked on the fourth story of No. — , Santa Lucia
with an unfavourable eye. Great would be the
affliction of Luigi and of Teresa if bad rumours
were to get afloat about them. They might even
think it cause sufficient to start a Yendetta against
one whom hitherto they have considered not only
as the apple of their eye but as the joy of their
bosoms."

You threaten, do you ? " said Charles, taking
up his hat and cane. "The ten minutes are up.
Au revoir'

Stop, stop, sir ! " cried Luigi, who saw that
matters were getting serious. "Listen to me.
Long have we employed the venerable cameriere
that makes his Excellency's bed ; long have we
nourished the man that polishes his Excellency's
boots, but we live to be deceived. Never, as yet,
have they taken anything, but who shall say ? —
Stay, stay ! " (for Charles had reached the door).
'^I will explain. By the love of the Son of the
Mother of God," continued Luigi, putting his
hands together as if in prayer, a favourite and
common gesture on the part of the Neapolitans,

^^ rather than lose the good name I have I will
undertake to repay to the Splendid Gentleman the
sum he says he has lost."

Charles made the man sign a promise to this
effect, and demanded the money at once.

Money have I none' said Luigi. " Never was
I so poor. But if your Excellency will take it out
in the shape of dearer, cleaner linen on your bed
oh, do stay ! — or of an extra pillow — don't go —
or in the shape of a plate of maccaroni a day ; orwell
if all this won't content you, here is the
money, or at least, here are five francs as a pledge
of the rest."

In the evening Luigi brought him fourpence.
The next morning eight francs and a few coppers
and Charles was obliged to repeat his threats.
After two days he got the whole amount back in
various small instalments, and even then Luigi
had pocketed about ten shillings, for whereas the
money stolen was in the shape of gold pieces he
returned the sum in notes and copper.

This trifling incident had a bad effect on Charles.
The anxiety it awakened disturbed him in his
regular course of work. It would have produced
no effect on many men, but Charles was lamentably
weak, and could only work by fits and starts.
Once interrupted in a period of industry, it was
many days before he could resume work.

Another incident which occurred the same day
had a similar bad effect on him, and on the proposals
of observing a rigid economy which he had
made.

He was walking along the Chiaja hj the side
of the Villa Gardens, at the time when all Naples
is in its carriages taking the cool evening air on
this most beautiful of promenades, when he saw
drive by him in a magnificent barouche by the
side of a lady of the highest rank, and connected
with many of the oldest and noblest Neapolitan
families, the Principessasa di E — , a young man
whom he had occasionally noticed at Oxford, and
who had been notorious there for his immense
wealth and equally immense vulgarity.

"Borthwick of the House," cried poor Charles,
as he watched them pass on ; and unfolding a
Daily Telegraph he had in his hands he pointed
to a large advertisement on the last page, which
ran as follows : —

Robert Borthwick axd Boodle,

Hosiers and Outsiders,

St. Martin's Lane, London,

BEG to call the attention of their clientele to their
new stock of Summer and Winter Shillings.
All kinds of Undermine of the best qualities. Socks
and ties of the most recherche kinds at the lowest prices.
Borthwick and Boodle supply goods to distinguished
members of the Peerage, Gentry, and Clergy. Robert
Borthwick and Boodle, outsiders by Special Letters
Patent to H.R.H. the King of Bonny. Neb.— When
you ask for the Borthwick, Boodle, Bonny flannel shirt
at 4s. 8d. see that you get it. All shirts stamped
B.B.B. (Borthwick, Boodle, Bonny), without which
none are genuine.

Robert Borthwick and Boodle.

Borthwick, the son of the advertising draper by
the side of the Princess di E, — ; Charles, the son
of Lord Brookshire, able to find no company but
that of a little white dog with a yellow patch
over his eye. And who disputes the power of
money ?

These were the thoughts of Charles as he slowly
folded the newspaper sheet again and put it into
his pocket.

Ruined, poor, unknown, bastard as I am, am I
not better than he? Do not I spring from the
noblesse and he from vulgarity? Oh, why was I
ever born if m^ life is to be one of continual pain,
continual insult, continual slight ! Hauberk
walks on foot with a little dog ; Borthwick, Boodle,
Bonny rides with a Princess ! I suppose money
is the only gauge to-day. Well, Fang, we must
see if we cannot raise ourselves above the B.B.B.
flannel shirts one of these days."

But for all that the son of the Borthwick,
Boodle, Bonny shirt was riding in state, while he
of the coronet and coat-of-arms, with its forty
quarters, was trudging lowly on foot.

Charles had no reason to complain. Allowing
that he was of the nobility, he should have been
endangered with the Princess di R — , and not
with the poor, vulgar Borthwick. She, too, was
of the nobility, and for ancient renown and
splendour very much more distinguished than the
Hauberks. Therefore if anyone was to blame it
was she. Borthwick, of course, liked to be

VOL. I. E

courted ; there is no vulgarity in that. It was
vulgarity on the part of the Princess to run after
an Englishman of Borthwick's class and kind
because he was rich. There was some vulgarity,
though certainly excusable, in Charles's thoughts
on the subject.

In a few minutes this rencontre had a good effect
on Charles, for it stung him in his pride, and made
him feel that for all his blood and talents the
world did not ]ay much value on him, and he began
to see that he really must exert himself if he ever
hoped to attain even a decent position in the
world, let alone if he ever dreamed of crowning his
wild ambition with success.

Charles had peculiar views on life. He wished
to be either Caesar or nobody. He could not bring
himself to view with resignation the occupation of
a middle station, to be but a unit in the large
total of men and women ; to be a mediocrity, to
be spoken of hereafter as one of the mob of the
nineteenth century. He resolved to be either
great or small, to lead this world in his fashion,
or to refuse to follow it ; to stand pre-eminent
either in social dignities or artistic fame ; or to
woo, if he failed, this pre-eminence by a spoken
and active contempt of these dignities; or by an
unsavory notoriety in the regions of art.

It is always so with men of active minds. They
will either be famous or notorious. And the
difference is a great one. Few become famous,
many notorious. It is so much easier to become
notorious than famous. Ravaillac and Guinea

have made their names immortal equally with
Caesar and Napoleon. The names of Virgil and
Suetonius, Moliere and Cobbett, Shakespeare and
the English dramatists of the seventeenth century
are equally, though in different degrees, inscribed
on the tablets of the memories of man. Genius
and industry produce fame ; genius walking on
wrong paths, unbacked by industry, brings the
hollow applause of notoriety.

It was a great question which path Charles
-would pursue. Undoubtedly gifted with inborn
music and an impulse to become great, he lacked
in strength of purpose and in diligence.

As he walked home he was burning with energy,
and aglow with wild plans of doing great deeds,
but his pride stepped in, and the reminiscence of
the B.B.B. flannel shirt awakened a curious feeling
of perverseness in him. What good, thought he,
to strive for a lofty place when such men can buy
them. What honour to be first among a crowd of
money-grasping men who can never appreciate
me, and who award to flannel shirts dignities and
applause which they withhold from genius and
talent. It is better to-day to be a hawker in the
streets than a poet in the skies. It is better
to-day to be a hosier, a grocer, a Borthwick, than
to be gifted with the gifts Time now and then
bestows. It is better to know how to buy flannel
at sixpence and to sell it at a shilling, than to
sing the songs of Dante, of Swinburne, of Rossetti.

Tormented with thoughts like these, Charles
reached his lodgings, and instead of setting to

work again as was his custom, he began to pace
Ms room restlessly.

In weak men anger manifests itself, and often
vents itself on helpless and inanimate objects.

In his walk, stung as he felt bj the event that
had happened, and by the irritating reflections
he had given way to he happened to see his
aeschylus lying open where he had left it that
morning.

What soothing thoughts might not this book
have awakened in him — what a flat contradiction
it 'gave to his peevish logic. Where were the
hosiers, the grocers, the mob of Eleusis, the contemporaries
of him who wrote these poems ? Dead,
lost, forgotten ! while his voice, his name, went
echoing through all time. Can greatness in art
be compared to greatness in commerce ? Will not
the music of Swinburne ring in the ears of the
after-world after the wiles and ruses of all the
family of Rothschild are forgotten ? What place
will Borthwick the flannel shirt-maker hold in the
memories of men when his shirts have been worn
and laid aside ?

The poet has eternity, and has the present value
of eternity in the thought that after his death his
expressions of beauty will charm, soothe, move
and comfort maids of men.

But Charles did not see this. He, only saw the
book, and the book made him think what a useless,
unprofitable study it was. It made him think
that in the time he spent in reading it other men

were making enormous fortunes by selling
magnesia, soap, and paper collars.

We must not accuse Charles of vulgarity in this
morbid desire of becoming rich. It must be remembered
what a laudable ambition was his.
Sprung from a hundred ancestors of fame and
splendour, he wished to win back the right to
claim these men as his ancestors in the face of the
world, to claim as his own the glorious coat-of-arms
they had claimed, untarnished by the fearful
bar sinister, that ominous rock over which so
many of our noblest families have been broken and
perished.

'^ Bother all this nonsense' said Charles,
flinging the Eleusinian into a corner. '''It's no
good my working. I can do nothing like this.
I'll enjoy myself and trust to chance. I will take
a lottery ticket tomorrow. No more cooping
myself up in this den. I'll leave it at once, and
find an apartment suitable to a gentleman. If
Borthwick drives in a barouche Hauberk shall
drive too. I am sick of mortifying the flesh. I
am young and will taste life."

And it was only a week since he had begun to
walk his ways of wisdom.

And it was at the same time, in her quiet
parlour in her lodgings at Keswick, that Dorothy
was saying to herself, " Oh God, bless my boy
and keep him in the right way ; give him courage
and industry." Dorothy full of hope and love on
her knees ! Charles full of petty peevishness.

weak spite and folly. Poor Charles ! Acting on
his new and foolish resolution Charles sat down
and wrote to his bankers at Penrith, and told them
to send him the whole balance of his money lying
at their bank. The sordidness of money and the
wish for extravagance having been aroused in his
mind, he also wrote to Dorothy, saying —

"Mt Dear Dorothy, —

^'I can find a use for the £20 you offered
to lend me the other day, and shall be glad now
to receive it. Kindly send it in form of a cheque
on Turnbull's bank.

Yours,

Charles."

There was another little bit of vanity in this.
The third day he had been at Naples Charles had
written to Messrs Turnbull offering his services asa
clerk in their office, not that he had the slightest
intention or wish to become one, but merely as the
result of a praiseworthy wish to do something and
add to his income. This was right enough; the
vanity lay in asking for a cheque on their bank
because Messrs. Turnbull had refused his offer,
and Charles wanted to show them that Charles
Hauberk was an independent gentleman, who had
cheques for £20 sent him by people, and could
afford to do without the emoluments of a clerkship
in their office.

He pictured to himself the dignified air with
which he would present his cheque, the nonchalant
manner with which he would thrust the cash into

Ms pocket, and the polite bows with, wliicli Messrs.
TurnbuU and staff would usher him to the door.

His next proceeding was to ring the bell, and
summon Luigi. When this worthy had appeared
lie told him he was obliged to give up his room,
partly because he felt that his property was no
longer safe there, and partly because the room was
kept in such a dirty state.

''^The Signor has to command, Luigi must
obeys' answered the Italian.

'rand I thought," said Charles,, ''^that under
these circumstances you should return me some of
the money which I paid you in advances

"Never," said Luigi, *' never can I with a wife
and several children — an addition to these being
also expected — agree to return money to so opulent
a gentleman."

Charles remonstrated but Luigi was firm ;
Charles threatened, Luigi brandished. At last the
Italian proposed a compromise. He would give
Charles ten francs if Charles would give up the
right to occupy the rooms for the remaining seven
weeks which he had paid for. Charles rejected
this offer with scorn ; Luigi shrugged his fat
shoulders.

The next day, firm to his foolish resolution, he
set about to find an apartment suitable for a
Hauberk. There were plenty of apartments in
Naples suitable for Hauberks without eni, and
even for greater men than they ; but then the apartments
suitable for a Hauberk cost money, and the
Hauberk in question had not much funds, especially

till his remittances came. At last he found a
healthful room, at a place called the Villa Castiglione,
at Posilipo, about two miles from Naples.

The Villa Castiglione is a most beautiful house,
situated in a large vineyard, and surrounded by
beautiful gardens, sloping down to the edge of a
high ledge of rocks which fringe the sea. The
beach is approached by a staircase cut out in the
rock. Charles' room opened on to a large balcony,
from which a view of the whole bay could be
obtained.

Which," said the proprietor, " is in itself
worth the five francs a day."

The price of the room, five francs a day, was a
mild nucleus of the daily bill, for there were many
extras. Candles went at ruinous prices. The
money that Charles spent there on this item alone
would have set up two or three Vestal Virgins
comfortably in their business. The privilege of
bathing in the sea was paid for extra, though no
comforts were provided. One bathed off the rocks,
and was supposed to find this cheap at half-lanfranc
a time.

In every way it was utterly unsuited to Charles'*
purse, and it was an act of perfect folly in him to
go there while he had his room at Santa Lucia unoccupied
and paid for.

But we can be firm in our resolutions when we
have resolved to please ourselves, and Charles
carried out the whole of his plan, and in two days
was installed at the Villa Castiglione with the key
of his room at Santa Lucia in his pocket.

He began once more to work, but was again disturbed.
This time, however, he had some reason
to be unsettled, and this was why.

At table cVhote at the Yilla Castiglione, on the
second day of his stay there, he was placed next to
a crentleinan whose name he learnt to be the
Chevalier de la Yigne. The Chevalier de la Yigne
was a little fussy man, of about thirty years of age,
fashionably and elegantly dressed in the last Paris
fashion. His appearance was not an ordinary one.
He was very fair, with light hair, and magnificent
blonde Dundreary whiskers. His eyes were large,
and of a dark blue colour. He had a languid expression
on his face, and rather a cynical smile
played about his beautifully-shaped mouth. He
had a pretty complexion, more that of a woman
than of a man. As mentioned above, he was not
tall, standing about 5ft. Gin. in his silk stockings.

Charles noticed him at first by the exceedingly
precise way in which he ate, the graceful flourish
with which he conveyed his bread to his mouth, and
how he used this action to display to their best
advantage his fine regular teeth, his delicate, vein-traced,
white, little hand, with its magnificent
diamond ring on the little finger, and also because
this gentleman drank nothing but lemonade, of
which he seemed very fond.

The Chevalier de la Vigne was a Frenchman,
fairly well educated, and enjoying the moderate
income of fourteen thousand francs a year. This
income had, as money often has, a bad effect on
his character, for placing him beyond the necessity

of working, it had turned him into a dandy of
effeminate and luxuriously self-indulgent tastes
and manners.

Tired of the life of a Parisian gommeux, sick of the
boulevards , the races, and the cafes, he had hailed
with delight the idea of leaving Paris, and had
come to Italy, in a quiet, gradual way, resting a
good deal en route, especially at those towns where
a skilful coiffeur was to be found.

He had a special object in coming to Naples
which will appear hereafter. Charles was too
proud to solicit any man's acquaintance, and
perhaps it was his reserve that attracted the
Chevalier's attention, for during dinner this gentleman
entered into conversation with him.

The Chevalier spoke good English, and the first
remark he addressed to Charles was, '' Excuse, me,
if you please, but are you acquainted with any
excellent hairdressers in this town ? ''

No," said Charles ; " I have not been in
Naples long enough to form the acquaintance of
any hairdressers, excellent or otherwise."

The Chevalier looked depressed, fondled his left
whisker, helped himself to some lemonade, and
continued —

'^ If you do not know any hairdressers, can you
perhaps tell me where I can procure that Eau de
Parte, which is so essential to a good complexion ! "

*' What a muff the fellow is," thought Charles,
as he answered that, although he had never heard
of the qualities of this water, he supposed any
chemist could supply it.

The Chevalier thanked him for this valuable bit
of information, and said he would note it. He did
so at once in a red plush pocket-book, the outside
of which was ornamented with a large silver
coronet, and the initials of Alphonse de la Yigne.

It was one of those little pocket-books which
are much used by French dandies, being furnished
inside with a slab of looking-glass. The Chevalier
opened the book to write down that any chemist
could supply him with the Eau de Parte, but
could not resist the attraction of the looking-glass,
especially as it gave him the opportunity of
exhibiting to the rest of the guests at the table
devote the coronet aforesaid. Whilst he was acting
the whiskered Narcissus over the little mirror,
Charles was most astonished to see reflected in the
glass the exact picture of Euphrosyne — of her who
had never left his thoughts ; and on looking again,
as closely as he deemed conventional, he saw that
the face in the glass was the reflection of a photograph
of the beautiful girl, which was lying in
the Chevalier's pocket-book.

Another host of questions, fears, and fancies
rushed through his mind. Did this whiskered
doll know Euphrosyne ? Was he — perish the
thought — her lover, her accepted lover, her
affianced ? Or was this a piece of wonderful good
fortune ? Might not the man be only a friend of
hers, who would be able to procure him the introduction
he so earnestly wished for ?

Anyhow it was impossible, and even Charles sat
that, for him to mention her name at the time, so

lie determined to cultivate the Frenchman's
acquaintance and trust to further good luck.

As dinner went on, and under the exciting influence
of his lemonade, the languid little Chevalier
became sufficiently talkative. He had many-interesting
details connected with hairdressers and
tailors to tell. He preferred Poole to his Paris
rival. He went so far as to say that

11 ney a que les Anglais qui sachent habiller
Homme."

Another glass of lemonade, and he broached the
subject of woman, beautiful woman, splendid
woman, divine woman ! He loved women, he was
the beloved of women. He would venture to go so far
as to say that he loved the whole sex. No, here
he must make an exception. He did not extend
this love to the old mustachioed Russian lady
opposite, who dined in black kid gloves. He would
prefer to see that lady eat her gloves before his
eyes rather than see her at table with them on.
He knew why she did it. She had received an
Imperial summons to attend the Court at St.
Petersburg, and wished to get her hands into a
proper state of whiteness for that event. His
hands were white, Charles might have observed,
and yet he never dined in black kid gloves. With
the exception of this lady he might say he loved
-all women. They were so gentle, so catlike, so
very, very nice.

Charles, wishing to sound him, asked him if he
had no particular flame, no love for one.

''No," said the Chevalier, ''no; from the

glorious Catalans, the first artiste at the Hippodrome,
with whom I used to drive in a barouche in
the Bois, down to the little peasant girl who offers
me violets at the door of this hotel, I love them all
equally.'^

Charles was satisfied, and dinner being over, he
lighted his cigarette, called to Fang, and went on
the terrace.

The Chevalier joined him after a few minutes.
He had changed his dress ; he did this five times
a day. Charles was teaching Fang to sit up, and
looking now and then across the sweep of the blue
waters over to Sorrento.

'* Oh, dear me*" said the Chevalier in French.
'^ You do not mean to say that the people of this
house take dogs in ? How very distressing, how
very unwise.''^

'the dog belongs to me,^' said Charles. "He
sleeps on my bed. He is with me always. I could
not do without him."

Oh, how very extraordinary," rejoined the
Chevalier ; " but I must really beg you to put him
out of sight. I dislike brutes. I cannot bear
the lower animals. I do not like to look at them.
Dogs especially I dislike. They are so irregular in
their hair. So artistically arranged in their
hairdressing. If it were a poodle, now, I should
not mind. I like poodles — rather. Catalans had
one ; its hairdressing was remarkable. An artist
from the Rue St. Hon ore arranged it. People
noticed it as we drove down the Champs. I
believe it was mentioned at Court. Anyway, that

hairdresser received the ribbon of the Legion
of Honour. He certainly deserved it. The dog
was most remarkably well arranged. But that
little wretch, with its rough, white hair, and its
irregular whiskers and pointed nose ! bah ! Do
you know, sir, I lose my esteem for you when I see
you with that dog ? "

"The esteem of a man who cannot bear lower
animals, and who especially dislikes dogs, is, in
my opinion, not worth having," said Charles.

Sirs' said the Chevalier, "will you explain
your thesis : but meanwhile I must take some
lemonade, and you will order your little dog to lie
down at a distance of at least ten feet. He appears
not particular as to what perfume he uses.
I prefer White Rose, while he holds apparently to
a peculiar scent, which is not known in the Parisian
worlds

"There is not much to explain'' answered
Charles, who could not help smiling at the serious
way with which the little dandy spoke all this
nonsense. " My ideas are, perhaps, peculiar; but
I feel very strongly on the subject. I do not look
on dogs as inferiors in any way. They have all
the virtues of men, and very few of their vices.
They"—

Thank you," said the Chevalier ; " I no longer
object. You will instruct your dog to leave me to
enjoy my share of the privileges of this villa without
molesting me ; and might I suggest a drop or
two of White Rose ? "

The Chevalier produced a little scent flask,

which he handed to Charles. Charles, to humour
him, sprinkled a few drops on Fang's back. Fang
did not appreciate it, for a moment or two afterwards,
to the horror of, and partial production of
syncope in the Frenchman, he discovered the dead
body of a mole in the garden, and rolled himself
over and over it, impregnating himself thereby
with an odour which he distinctly preferred to the
whole fragrant catalogue of the chef deceives of
Hesse, Atkinson, or Rimmel.

The Chevalier asked Charles to accompany him
to Naples to take an ice at the Cafe d^ Europe,
and see a little of the cafe life there. We always
return to our old habits, no matter where we travel.

TASTING THE LACRIM^ Christ.

The two young men drove to Naples in an opera
carriage, which was at the disposition of the 
the Villa Castiglione, a privilege for
which they, of course, paid dearly, on the same
scale as all the rest of their expenses there.

Charles was at first very much bored by the
Chevalier's insipid talk, but the fact remained that
he was a gentleman, and as such an agreeable
companion for Charles, who very much wanted
such society. On nearer acquaintance, too, he
found that beneath his languid and affected exterior
the Chevalier had plenty of good sense, and a
sympathetical appreciation of the beauties of
nature.

Surely there can exist no man, who, driving from
Posilipo to Naples, through the green olive trees,
and gold-spangled orange trees, by the side of the
blue waters ; girt in on the one side by the wonderful
hills of the Sorrento peninsula, marking all
the colour of the scene, all the beauty of the inanimate,
and all the intense loveliness and activity,
grace and ease of the animate, does not feel his
soul, however little it may be, lifted, as it were,
to higher and nobler feelings.

The town was soon reached, and in due time the

Cafe cVEarope. Here they spent an hour or two,
sipping the cool lemon sorbets at one of the tables
on the street, smoking their cigarettes and watching
the active throng of people hurrying by or
idling in the place or at the corners. The outside
of the Cafe d' Europe at Naples is a rendezvous
place of some of the worst characters of the town.
Hither flock all the numberless hawkers, and
others who find foreigners an easy prey. Charles
was more pestered by these men — some offering
papers others sweets, others walking-sticks, combs,
beads, tobacco (smuggled), fruit, musical boxes,
views of Naples — than the Prince of Wales at a
fancy fair.

About eleven o'clock the Chevalier proposed a
walk, and they started arm-in-arm down the finest
street in Naples, the Toledo. They did not notice
as they looked around at all the brilliant shop-windows,
that they were being followed by a most
suspicious-looking young man who, keeping at a
certain distance from them, appeared never to lose
sight of them. About half-way down the Toledo
the Chevalier stopped and asked Charles if he
would care to see an interesting sight.

What is it ? " said Charles.

*' One of the hottest gambling hells in the world'*
answered de la Vigne.

'^ Yes, provided I do not have to play."

"You will have to stake one louis. It is the
rule of the house. You need go no further than
that. Even if yoa lose you will see a sight worth
more than that's

YOL. I. S

^' I am agreeable said Charles.

The Chevalier then entered a wine-shop with
him, passed through the shop, and addressing the
proprietor asked him if he kept the Lacrimse
Christi wine in store — this with a peculiar gesture.

The proprietor answered that they kept that
wine in stock, but it could only be seen upstairs.
He then drew aside a curtain and motioned them
to enter.

At the same time the young man who had followed
them from the Cafe europe entered the
shop, called for a bottle of Asprinio, and took his
place at a table near the door.

Charles and his friend had meanwhile mounted
a narrow and dimly-lighted staircase. The Chevalier
led Charles down a long passage, and knocked
at a little door. A Judas in the door was opened,
and a voice asked who was there.

We have come to taste your Lacrimse Christie'
answered the Chevalier.

Entreated'' said the voice, and the door was
opened.

"Rather," remarked the Chevalier, quoting
Dante, " Fascinate agni speranza voi che entrate.'^

'' ^^o," answered the porter, " No, the contrary,
the bank is losing terribly to-night."

"jLa helle Hague" retorted the Chevalier. "You
say so every night's''

The porter grinned, and throwing open a door,
ushered them into a most brilliantly-furnished
saloon, lighted with hundreds of dazzling lamps.
Charles had never seen so luxurious a room. The

walls were of white wood, with relievo in gold,
and were ornamented with several pictures of
beautiful design and colour, but of dubious subjects,
and many very costly mirrors. The room
furniture was quite in harmony with its decorations,
and equally costly and luxurious. A carpet
of the most wonderful softness was stretched on
the floor. The sofas and chairs were covered with
damask silk worked in the Louis XIV. style.
In the middle of the room stood a large table,
fiuiTounded by a quantity of men. It was
here that the bank played against the comers.
Many smaller tables stood round the room,
at which groups of two or three were playing
different games of hazard. Englishmen playing
banker here, Frenchmen ecarte there, others
occupied with baccarat, loo, nap, and all the host
of games where money can be quickly gained — or
quickly lost.

At the table in the middle, the gambling games,
par excellence, of roulette and rouge et noir were
being played. Round this table stood men three
rows deep. As soon as those in the first row were
cleared out, or what happened very rarely, had
won sufficient, and left the table those behind took
their places. Charles felt rather nervous and sorry
that he had come there. He did not know whether
to trust the Chevalier. He thought at the time how
distressed his good old friend at Keswick, Miss
Dorothy Crosthwaite would be could she, who
fancied him working steadily and living quietly,
only see where he was and in what society. He

resolved, however, to go no further than one louis
whether he won the first time or not.

As there was no chance of their getting near the
table for some minutes at least, the Chevalier
invited Charles to come and take a sherry-cobbler
with him at the bar, which stood in one corner of
the room, and was attended by three Hebe, of —
well, Bean characteristics.

While they were drinking, Charles asked the
Chevalier what was the meaning of his question
about the Lacrimse Christi wine to the proprietor
of the shop below.

"Oh' answered the Chevalier, "that is our
watchword."

Why," asked Charles, " is this gambling forbidden
in Naples ? "

"Certainly," said the Chevalier; "the Government
does not allow competition in this matter."

What do you mean ? " asked Charles.

Only this' returned de la Vigne, stirring the
ice in his glass with the straw, " that while the
Government encourages that most wretched form
of gambling, the public lottery, which is the bane
and pest of Italy, that while it allows the
wretched poor to waste their last sou, pawn their
last blanket, or even sell the rags they wear intaking
tickets in this public lottery, it most
strictly forbids private gambling of any sort.
It sets us the example and forbids us to follow
it. It robs the poor, deludes the wretched, preys
on their misery, and then poses as virtuous and

moral. But come, the crowd is thinning let us
try our luck."

They went back to the table, and soon got a
place at it. Charles staked his louis and won
about two hundred francs. The Chevalier
borrowed a hundred of him, staked it and lost;
borrowed fifty more, staked it and lost ; borrowed
twenty, staked it with the same result. He then
borrowed the last thirty, though Charles did not
seem very ready to lend it, staked it and won two
thousand francs. He gave the whole sum, one
hundred louis in gold, to Charles, saying — '' Of
course, this is yours. I played with your money""

Charles protested feebly, but was glad enough,
when the Chevalier persisted in telling him to
keep it, and suggested their return to i'osilipo.

While they were preparing to leave the saloon,
Charles, who was in the highest spirits at his
moderate bit of luck, suggested another drink at
the bar. They had just finished, when a loud cry
was heard at the centre table, and a tall, handsome
young man was seen to rise from the midst
of the players, and, deadly pale and trembling
stagger to the door.

^^ What is that?" asked Charles.

"Even," returned the Chevalier. '''That young
man is the Duca di Caserta. He came of age two
weeks ago, and entered into the enjoyment of an
enormous fortune. On dit, that he is the richest
man in Italy, or was so, at least, two weeks ago.
He has been playing like a fool ever since. He
lost a million francs the first night, won double

his fortune the second, and has lost ever since.
I shouldn't wonder if he has lost his last carling.
I say, De la Roche," said he, addressing a young
man who was drinking bj his side, " what has
happened ? Is Caserta cleaned out? "

"Clean," answered De la Roche. " He has just
staked his watch and rings against a hundred naps.
Lost, and now he has no cab-fare home, and na
home to go to for all I know."

'^ Tant pis pour lui," said the Chevalier, sipping
his Madeira.

Truly he presented a pitiful sight, the ruined
young aristocrat, leaning in the most abject misery
against the gilded postern of the door. His hat ofP,
his hair in wild confusion, his dress all disordered,
his linen rumpled, his hand now and then wandering
stealthily into his breast, as if seeking something
there. In his weary eyes there gleamed the
ominous light of despair, and on twitching lips
there played a smile of scorn. The players did
not heed him much ; they had lost their interest
in him. He was ruined. Tant pis pour lui — that
is the consolation of the world. A woman falls —
Tant pis pour elle, says the world shrugging its
shoulders. A man is ruined — Tent pis pour lui.

It was most distressful to Charles to see all the
misery depicted on the young man's face. What
had his ruin been to this ?

What will he do ? " he asked the Chevalier.

"If he has a revolver, shoot himself. If he hasa
lady-love, borrow money, and send it after the-rest.
Or more probable enlist, and change tho

ducal coronet for the feathered hereto of the
"bersaglieri/' answered the Chevalier.

Charles was as yet no man of the world, or he
would not have acted as he did.

He went straight np to the young Duke, who
was preparing to go and addressing him in French,
said —

I have heard your case. I too have suffered
ruin. Will you take this, T can spare it. I won
it to-night. It may be even your money. Here
are a hundred louis."

The Duke did not appear to understand, but
shook his head feebly, and moved away a step or
two.

Charles continued — "You are noble. I am —
well — I am not. Do not on this account hesitate.
You may retrieve your fortune. Here."

And so saying he placed the handful of gold
into the man's hand. He took it absently, and
walked back to the table with an unsteady gait.
He was welcome enough back , with money.

Charles did not stay to witness the result of his
action. He called de la Vigne, who with a number
of others was standing near the table watching
the Duke's play, and went away. They passed
down stairs, through the shop. It was long past
midnight. The shop was nearly deserted. Still
at one table there sat a man before an unfinished
bottle of Asprinio. They left the shop and hailed
a cab. The man got up and addressed the driver
in Neapolitan. He then mounted the box by his
side.

What does that fellow want ? " said Charles.

Oh," said de la Vigne , " he is probably a,
frater cugino of the driver, who wants to earn a
few sous for himself. Let him stay. The drivers
in Naples often have a boy with them, generally
some needy relation, who wants to earn a few sons
^ by doing nothing.' '^

Charles did not answer. He did not like the
appearance of the man ; he had noticed him hanging
about the Cafe d'Europ6. He felt for his revolver;
it was safe in his pocket.

The cab drove very slowly. The Chevalier
remonstrated with the driver. The man pretended
to urge the horse on, but did not increase its speed.
The man on the box was in earnest conversation
with the driver.

As they were going along, the Chevalier remarked
—

You did the Duke a service. His luck changed.
He was winning when we left. You ought to
have got your money back."

I did not care to trouble him. Anyhow, it is
too late now. He does not know me.^'

Oh yes, he does. I gave him my card before I
left. He took it. He was too excited with the
change of fortune to attend much, but he said he
would not forget. But in the name of the Virgin,"
continued he, addressing the driver, " is that
horse going to fall down ? "

He always is," answered the driver, pretending
to lash it.

It took them about an hour and a half to reach

the Villa Castiglione at the rate the were going.
When they stopped the driver demanded four
francs. The Chevalier tendered a fifty franc note.
The driver had no change. Charles said he would
go down to the Villa and get change. The gates
of the garden were locked ; he had to climb over
the wall. The Chevalier remained in the road,
lighting a cigarette at the carriage lanip. Charles
turned down the drive, but had to wait some time
before gaining admittance to the Villa. He had
also some difficulty in finding the money. At last
he got it and returned to the road. As he was
running up the drive he thought he heard several
voices. Drawing nearer he saw two carriages, his
own and another. Four men were surrounding the
Chevalier, speaking violently. The Chevalier
appeared cool and collected.

Charles heard him say — "j^o, my friends; you
ere mistaken." Then, to his horror, he saw the
mean who had accompanied them on the box of
the carriage draw a tremendous knife and flourish
it in the Chevalier's face. The other men, who
appeared villains of the lowest type, did the same.
The drivers sat on their boxes looking on and
lauo^hino^.

The Chevalier did not seem very intimidated.
He spoke in Italian to them, in his quiet way.
They hustled roused him, flourishing their knives.
One man caught him by the collar and twisted
him back ; the others began to rifle his pockets.
One searched his hat for notes. The Frenchman
struggled and fought for himself, but he was so

small and weak that his efforts were futile against
these strong ruffians. Charles drew his revolver,
leaped over the wall, and rushed in to his rescue.
The cowards retreated when they saw the pistol.
The poor little Chevalier was lying in a woeful
plight in the dusty road. The men were not to be
done out of their spoils, and rushed at Charles.
Charles levelled his revolver at the first, and pulled
the trigger. The revolver failed him. The trigger
refused to work ; the spring was out of order.
The men laughed and closed in on him. He had
just time to drag the little Chevalier up and get
his back to the wall when they were on him.

The drivers jumped from their boxes and joined
the others.

Your money, your money ! '^ they cried.

'-' Tivoli," answered Charles — the only word of
abuse he knew.

He had a stick in his hand, one of those massive
bone-handled sticks which were fashionable at the
University some years ago. With this he managed
to ward off the blows which the men, infuriated
now and determined to rob, were aiming at him
with their knives.

The result would have been a certain one.
Charles and the Chevalier would have disappeared
in the same way that many strangers have done
at Naples, for these men, the worst of the assassin
type which still exists in Southern Italy, were
overpowering the young men, had not, at the
moment when Charles' stick snapped in half and
fell from his hand, the sound of a carriage

approaching at full speed been heard. The men
drew back. The lights of the carriage were seen
at the bend of the road , and a voice heard
shouting, " Avant, avant ! " The men rushed
pell-mell to the carriages. The drivers jumped onto
their boxes and lashed their horses, and the
two carriages dashed away in the Capo di Posilipo
direction. The third carriage came tearing up,
halted, and out jumped four men. Charles, in
spite of his excitement and physical exhaustion,
recognised the first. It was the Duca di Caserta.

The Duke strode up to him and asked him wheat
had happened. Charles pointed after the receding
carriages. The Duke addressed his companions in
Italian. They entered the carriage again — it was a
splendid barouche drawn by two magnificent horses
and drove at a gallop after the assassins.

The Duke then approached Charles, and supporting
him with one arm lifted up the Chevalier, who
was lying fainting against the wall. He was not
injured at all. The men had left him when Charles
came, and Charles had protected him with his
body during the scuffle.

You are not hurt, fratello mio," said the Make
gently.

No," answered Charles ; "you came in time.
Is de la Vigne well ? "

I think so ; he does not seem wounded. Here,
open," returned di Caserta, raining mighty blows
against the iron gate.

The people of the villa appeared soon. The
waiter and the proprietor came to the gate. They

were horrified when they heard of the event from
the Duke. They had run so near a chance of
losing two pension aires. De la Vigne, who had
not yet recovered, was carried down to the villa
by the two men ; Charles walked down on di
Caserta's arm. Di Caserta said he must rejoin
his friends. He would come in the morning. It
was to be a night of excitement to him, he remarked.
He would speak about nothing till the
morrow. Before leaving he kissed Charles on the
forehead. He left the villa after tossing three
gold pieces to the waiter, and strode up the drive,
whistling " La Donna e mobile," presenting a very
different figure to that when he was leaning in
despair against the postern of the door of the
Toledo gambling hell three short hours before.

The proprietor pestered Charles with questions.
He could answer little. The story was soon told,
and he was too weary to re-tell it. Worn out with
excitement, he soon fell asleep. Near his head lay,
cosily coiled up, the little fox-terrier Fang.

RIVALS.

Which is it to be ? " thought Charles, as he
leant on the balcony of the terrace, turning his
eyes every now and then from the varied beauties
of the panorama before him to the nestling
village of Sorrento, which lay in a veil of mist
in the early morning air. It was five o'clock in
the morning of the day after his adventures.
Charles had not slept well after the first weariness
had passed off, and rose early. He did not
think much about the fight, or the other incidents
of the previous night ; his thoughts were occupied
with his future, and with the beautiful Euphrosyne*
It is a curious fact, that when men have achieved
either brave or noble deeds their first thoughts
turn to the ladies of their love. The mailed knight
on the tourney field, when he had vanquished his
opponent lowered his spear and raised his vizor
to the one he loved.

'^ Which is it to be ? Ambition, art, or love.
The coronet, the lyre, or the kiss of Euphrosyne.
I yearn after all. I have ambition, I love art, I
adore Euphrosyne. They do not go together. I
cannot follow all. Ambition and love are an ill-assorted
pair. I remember what Goethe says
about that. Ambition and poetry, well, there
can be no hesitation about that. That would mean

failure in both. Poetry and love, ah. me ! the
thought. To while away a life like Shelley, to
live in love and music. To turn from the skies
to Euphrosyne, from Euphrosyne to the skies. To
live on kisses that can never sate, and all the while
to be in another world. To shun the rough hard
world and to wander hand in hand with her thro'
'fields of asphodel in lands of our fashioning
forth. That would be very, very, well. But that
dream is not to be. My worthy guardian has
stopped all that. I must either relinquish my
cherished ambition, that ambition which uow I hold
dearer than my life, that firm resolution of giving
the world the lie, and proving myself, not filius
nullius, but the true son of Charles Hauberk. I
must either dream no more of being able some day
to wipe out that cursed lie in the chapel of Apple-dean
"— (in the chapel of Appledean, where a long
line of Hauberks lay buried, was a tablet to the
memory of the last Earl, which ran as follows :

Sacred

To the memory of

Chaeles Hauberk,

Seventh and last Earl of Brookshire,

Eighth Baron Hauberk,

Knight of the Most Honourable Order of

the Garter, &c., &c.,

Died Nov. 17, 18—,

Pray for his soul.

Charles was thinking of the words Seventh and
last) — " or I must relinquish my love, and kill in
me this yearning for poetry."

If I were ricci, or had even enough to live on,
I would, I think, abandon this wild scheme, which.
is so difficult to carry out, so hopeless in its attainments
Charles was right. It was a hopeless
ambition. Look at his position. He had no
wealth, no habit of practising economy, and his
talents were not those which the world usually
rewards. A Pinchbeck succeeds where a Chatterton
starves. Peerage are not given except for
exceeding merit, or what means the same to-day,
for exceeding wealth. The world of to-day
lavishes honour on soap and magnesia, and leaves
art to starve. Yes, leaves art to starve. Art is
truth, and men who act against their convictions
of truth have no longer a claim to art. A man
who, being able to paint a Medusa, paints a pot of
beer and two clay pipes, because people want representations
of pots of beer and of clay pipes, and
because people will only pay for what they want,
is not true, and being false to his art, is no artist
but an ordinary workman ; the man who, being
able to interpret to the world some divine feeling
Symbolized in Nature, prefers to write hymns,
songs, or because the world wants hymns and
songs, and only pays for what it wants, is not
true, is no artist, is the world's hack. There was
indeed but slight cause to hope that Charles could
ever achieve fame as a poet ; the world does not
encourage poets, those few that get great by their
poetry are men who are able to struggle with the
world and master it.

This was the gist of Charles thoughts as he

leant on the balcony in the early mornings
glancing every now and then across the foam-flecked
sea below, to Sorrento, " sighing his soul
unto the Trojan tents where Cressida' lay that
night'

Later the letters came, and brought cash from
Dorothy, and a remittance of £45 from the Penrith
Bank, both of which were welcome enough.

The store? of his adventure having got about the
pension, with more or less exaggeration, of course,
Charles was annoyed with many questions. He
had so little to tell, and the repetition of this little
wearied him. The Chevalier sent the waiter to
him at about ten, desiring to see him. He found
the ( 'chevalier in his luxurious apartment on the
first floor, sittings in a blue satin dressing-gov,
with a silk cap, after the fashion of the cotton caps
of the Neapolitan fishermen. His chair stood by
the window, which was open, and led through onto
a private little terrace, stocked with all kinds of
beautiful flowers.

The Chevalier looked pale, and was toying, with
a questioning look on his face, with a little cosmetic
of rouge.

tie rose languidly when Charles entered, and
put out his hand. Both the men seemed perplexed.
Charles was frightened lest the Chevalier proposed
to offer him thanks, and de la Yigne felt too bored
and tired to show any profuse sentiment, although
he felt grateful to the young Englishman.

Thus do men of to-day act their weary farce.

ashamed of sentiment, ashamed of nature, ashamed,
therefore, of themselves.

'^ I wanted to hear how you were," said de la
Yigne. "what strange men those were — so
curiously dressed."

Yes,^' said Charles " they were. They were
curious in other respects. If it had not been for
Caserta, we " —

^^ The eternal if," rejoined the Chevalier. " Don't
let us refer to it. I am so much obliged to you, my
friend, but shall we drop the subject ? I am so tired,
so bored, and have such a bad head. I am really
grateful to you , my dear fellow," continued he,
with a little more energy, grasping Charles's hand.
'' But excuse me if I don't appear so. I have
never rehearsed tragic effects, and did not pose
well last night, I am afraid."

I am afraid you didn't," said Charles laughing,
as he thought of the little man lying in the dust
on the night before. " I am afraid neither of us
did. I so wish it had not happened ; I have had
to answer a hundred questions already. Your
friend with moustaches, who dines in black kid
gloves, has been wearying me all the morning. Di
Caserta is coming this morning. We have not
heard the end of it yet."

" I am afraid not"" said de la Yigne, laying his
head in some Eau-de-cologne. " There will he
more gratitude to be expressed, perhaps kisses to
be given."

Kisses ? " said Charles.

VOL. I. T

>* Yes' said the Chevalier, with a little shudder,
'rit is not improbable that the Duke will expect
us to kiss him. He will certainly kiss us. These
Italians do gush so. Then we shall have to report
these men to the police, and that will probably
keep me in Naples, and I ought to be off.'^

Don't you mean to stay at Naples ? " said
Charles.

"Mon cher," rejoined the Chevalier, '^ don't
suppose I took that most tiring journey from Paris
for the purpose of seeing Naples. Naples is all
very well, but it is disappointing after what I
have seen at the Opera. Naples in Masaniello is
so much more picturesque, and so much handier
too. You take it en gros. The effects are all
together there. Here you have to run about to
find them. There, too, the interesting dresses
and characters are kept at a distance. It is so
much pleasant to see them from the amphitheatre
than to have them as close as we had last night.
No, please dispel that idea, won't you? I didn't
come to Naples to see Naples, I have come to
Naples to be married.'^

To be married? '^ said Charles.
'' Yes, to be married ; not to marry. I should
never marry, I am to be married."

'^ Would you mind telling me the story? '■' asked
Charles.

"Certainly," said the Chevalier; "anything to
make us forget yesterday's indignities. And, oh !
those pantaloons. A true chef-d'oeuvre of
Dusantoy's. They can never be matched. I

Thought them to do my wooing in. I suppose
there will be some wooing to be done. My
story is a very simple one. My nuclei says I'm
too old to remain a jargon. He says I must
domesticate. He said that Catalans were all very
well for boys, but that I must get married. I am
to call on the Baroness Bienaimee."

The what ! " cried Charles.

Not the what. I do not know any lady of that
name, but the Baroness Bienaimee, at the Villa
Dresda at Sorrento. She has a daughter. I am
to be that daughter's victim's

Is not the daughter to be consulted ? '' said
Charles rather bitterly.

I think not. It never struck me. My uncle
says no woman can resist my whiskers. I really
do not care. I suppose she will do. Anyhow, I
am to try. I am not anxious about the result ; in
fact my wardrobe is so deficient that I am doubtful.
Oh, those pantaloons " —

Do you really mean to say," said Charles
rather irritably, " that you think any girl would
select a husband for his trousers ? ''

'^I don't know," sighed the Chevalier. "In
Paris, wardrobe means everything. If you are
not cliic, you stand no chance. I do not know
mademoiselle, I have never seen her. I have her
photograph. Here it is. You will observe that
she has peculiar ideas on the subject of dress, and
then her coiffure " —

What miserable talk this seemed as he gazed
with longing eyes on the beautiful face, his whole

heart going out to the cold picture, which his
burning love seemed to call into life. To him she
seemed to be the perfection of all that is perfect in
woman. It was a full length portrait. Euphrosyne
was represented in fancy dress, in the picturesque
garb of an Ischia peasant. On her head she
carried a pitcher, which she supported with one
hand, with the other hand she was plucking a
scarlet spray from a bough of pomegranate, which
drooped, heavy with red blossoms and ruddy fruit,
over a wall, which formed the background of the
picture. The ground about her feet was strewn
with red petals and the ruddy golden fruit, bursting
with mellow ripeness, and showing the gleaming
white seeds in the ruby pulp.

Beautiful as it was, and much as Charles felt
that he could stand for hours looking at it, he had
discretion enough to return it to de la Vigne without
letting any exclamation which might have
betrayed him escape his lips.

That's the future Meme de la Vigne," said the
Chevalier complacently. '^ Why do 3''0u grind
your teeth, my friend, it does not improve them
She has faults, I foresee. I suppose Worth et Che *
have no suc cur sale at Sorrento. We shall have
much to rectify. The wife of the Chevalier de
la Yigne must not pose in tableaux vivants. I
never saw anything more outre in Watery's
windows, and you must know the quartier he
lies in."

*' I do not know Paris," said Charles abruptly.
<' I do know that nowhere in the world could so

"beautiful a woman be seen, or so beautiful a
picture. Beautiful ! "

"How enthusiastic you are," rejoined the
Chevalier; '^ quite poetical."

How did you get to know the Baroness Bien
what is it ? " was the dissimulating question of
Charles.

She is a far-off connection of ours. Some
venerable great-aunt of hers was a de la Vigne.
My uncle corresponds with her occasionally. We
wanted to have her in Paris, but she clung to her
husband's part of the world."

"Where was that?"

Somewhere down in the South. One of those
places where all the people are black eyed, have
black hair and enormous appetites. Where they
speak broad French, you know."

I take your meaning," answered Charles.

'^ The only objection to this union," continued
the Chevalier, wrapping himself closer in his embroidered
blue satin gown, " apart from the trivial
ones I have mentioned, is that these Bienaimees
are strong Royalists, while T am supposed to hold
to the Buonaparte tradition. My uncle says that
I hold to it. I don't quite understand what he
means, but I suppose he does. For my part, I hold
to nothing. It bores me to hold to things. To
tell the truth, I dislike this tradition."

Why ? " asked Charles.

Because" —

Because you think as all men do," said Charles
with a burst of enthusiasm, " that after Augustus,

there is no room for an Augustus, and that
after Napoleon the Great we " —

Victor Hugo' said the Chevalier languidly.
Don't quote, and don't bring in the word ' anticlimax
I have heard that word used so often by
men speaking about the Emperor that I am quite
tired of it. No, my objection to the Buonaparte
tradition is that on certain days of the year, my
uncle makes me put violets in my buttonhole. I
dislike buttonholes, buttonhole flowers I mean,
and I dislike violets especially. Poets are always
talking of violets, and that tires me. Violets are
to me more tiresome than lifted aux pommes. I
used to like biftek aux pommss, and used to go to
Bignon's for it ; but when I heard every Englishman
ask for it I got tired, and then disgusted. I
believe," said the little man, waving his delicate
hands deprecatingly, "that if I was starving I
should refuse lifted aux pommes.'^

'^ This is my rival," thought Charles, as he
heard the man talk. ^'^This is the man who has
been brought over from France ' to be married '
to Euphrosyne. And he has all on his side, and
I, nothing. And yet he hopes to win her heart
with his whiskers and pantaloons. And I ? What
have I to offer ? Love, adoration, sympathy, my
heart, my life. Which will she choose ? "

'^ sua Excellence il Duca di Caserta,''' said
the waiter, throwing open the door.

My dear fellows, how are you ? " said the
Duke, grasping Charles's hand.

The Chevalier rose and cast a whimsical glance

at Charles wliicli seemed to say, '' We're in for it
now. Look out for the kisses

My dear fellow' continued the Duke, striding
up to de la Yigne, " how have you slept on last
night's adventure ? Come to my arms."

The poor little Chevalier submitted, with a look
of comic despair, to the embrace of the Italian ;
then woefully smoothing out his gown, and arranging
his whiskers at the glass, he bade the Duke
sit down, and motioned to Charles to take his seat
again.

"The fellows escaped us after all," said the
Duke. " We got within pistol shot of them, and
then they turned down a lane. We couldn't
follow them ; or, I should say, my friends couldn't
follow them, because I wasn't there, you know.
The lane was too narrow for the barouche. De
Castri and Anselmo pursued on foot, but they got
away."

'^ For which, with other mercies, the Virgin be
thanked," said de la Vigne.

I don't think so," said the Duke. '' I was
sorry. I wish we had got the fellows. They were
some of the most dangerous ruffians out. My valet
reported the affair this morning, and we may yet
have them arrested. A panton is to be
placed in the Piazza del Plebiscite to-night, and
the Commissary hopes to get one at least."

'' I have not yet thanked you' said Charles.

Thanked me. For what ? For taking a drive
in a barouche. What is there in that ? Have I
thanked you ? What did I save you from ?

Deatli,'^ said Charles quietly.

Perhaps' answered di Caserta. " But what
yon did for me was better than that ; but, before
I forget, here is the money you lent me last night.
I broke the bank with it."

^^ What made you come after us ? " said de la
Yigne .

My valet, Angelo, you know, told me that you
were to be followed. That was three-quarters of
an hour after you left. I had your card, and as
the bank refused to continue play — it was cleaned
out — and as de Castri's barouche was in waiting,
I thought I might do you service."

Which you did," said Charles ; " a service I
shall not forget."

'' A service which I shall not forget," echoed
the Chevalier, with a tone of voice which seemed to
imply that he thought the matter might rest now.

To his great weariness, the Duke and Charles
entered into a long conversation on the matter,
and branched off into general topics. The
Chevalier listened, playing nervously with the
stopper of a scent-bottle. The affair was talked
over twenty times, for Charles was really excited
about it, besides being pleased at having the
hundred louis in his pocket. At last he interrupted
them by asking the Duke —

When do the steamers sail for Sorrento ? "

At one," answered the Duke. '' I am going
there tomorrow."

Indeed ! " said the Chevalier. '' I am also
bound thither. What can take you there ? "

"I have a sister staying there, at a place called
ijhe Yilla Dresda. She is staying with some French
people — Bienaimee by name."

How strange," said Charles.

Thy strange ? " asked the Chevalier.

"Ton were speaking about those very people.
It is they whom we are going to see."

Indeed ! " said the Duke.

Matters were explained to their mutual surprise.

To Charles's inexpressible joy, the Duke asked
him if he would accompany him to Sorrento. The
Chevalier was agreeable. At last the opportunity
had come. Re was to be presented, side by side
with his rival, both for the first time, to Euphrosyne.
Truly fortune was smiling on him.

AT THE VILLA DRESDA.

As agreed on, the three young men met at the
Cafe europe at eleven the next day. The Chevalier
had exerted himself to rise early, and had
spent fully four hours in arranging himself before
the glass. To tell the truth, beneath all his expressed
indifference, he was fairly anxious to secure
Euphrosyne. His income of fourteen thousand
francs was hardly sufficient for his wants, or rather
for his tailor's wants, and Euphrosyne's dot would
be very useful, he thought. Charles, too, had
spent a little more time on his toilette than was
his wont, and looked as well as possible. He firmly
resisted, however, all the Chevalier's entreaties
that he should go and have his long hair cut. He
preferred it in wild confusion to neatly parted
down the middle. Poets hang out signboards as
well as other traders.

They found the Duke talking to an agent of
police. The j9ian/one had failed to arrest the men,
at which both Charles and the Chevalier were
secretly pleased. The Duke greeted them both
warmly, but seemed much more taken with Charles.
Certainly Charles presented a more interesting
figure than the Chevalier who, dressed in a light
cashmere suit, yellow kid gloves, yellow and
patent leather boots, and a tall white hat, looked

very much too foppish. In fact, the Duke taking
Charles aside, remarked — " E troppo gallo, quel
giovanni I "

They passed the time well enough till one
o'clock at the Cafe, and reached the steamer in
the Dukes barouche. The got on board fully a
quarter of an hour too early, for the Chevalier,
who was very fussy, had never ceased pulling out
his heavy gold watch and urging that they were
certain to be late. The quarter of an hour was
pleasantly whiled away looking at the multitudinous
craft in the harbour, or listening to the quaint
but melodious strains of a band of itinerant
musicians, playing tunes from the inexhaustible
repertoire of the Neapolitan popular songs from
8ul mare lucid" to " La luna va saunter," and
Oi, Oi, Oi, jpaclron'' di casa" The passage was
short and pleasant. Too long for Charles' impatience,
and far too short for his nervousness.
So much depended on this first meeting. Would
she remember him ? Might not the fact of their
having met before pre-interest Euphrosyne on his
behalf ? He could not help feeling some satisfaction
when he thought of his rival, in his absurdly
foppish garb, who had retired to the cabin after
the first five minutes on board. These were his
reflections as he paced up and down the deck,
arm in arm with di Caserta.

They reached Sorrento in about an hour. The
other passengers were fetched off by ferryboats.
A private boat, bearing the Bienaimee crest on its
bows, and the name of '' La Bella Euphrosyne "

on its stern, was in waiting for the Duke and his
parts. They took their places and were rowed off
in the Castellamare direction. This row was truly
luxurious. The warm sky, the beautiful sea, the
life behind and the scenery in front, the steady,
swift motion of the boat furrowing up the sparkling
foam on the blue waters, were all felt by
Charles. The boat stopped before a gateway cut
in the precipitous rock, which fronts the sea the
whole length of the peninsula from the Columella
to Sorrento. The steersman got out on to a small
natural landing place, made the boat fast and
unlocked the gate. The Duke bade Charles follow
and motioned the Chevalier to proceed. The Yilla
Dresda was one of those beautiful villas which
crown the plateau, at the foot of which is the sea.
It is approached from the sea through the gate
and up a set of steps cut in the soft tufa. The
steps lead up to the villa gardens through a slanting
tunnel bored in the rock, and are lit up by
embrasures cut out in the precipitous sides of the
sea wall. The gardens were soon reached, and at
last the eventful moment had come. Charles's
heart beat high at the thought of how soon his
hand would touch hers, and he stood in a certain
degree of nervousness by the side of the Duke,
waiting for the Chevalier, who was taking his time
in the ascent.

While they were standing thus a merry voice
behind them was heard crying with a ringing
laugh —

"You have come, then, my brother," and a



beautiful girl ran over the green lawn and embraced
the Italian.

It was Bianca di Caserta, the Duke's sister.
She was a tall, dark girl, with the most lustrous
of large black eyes, and the most rosy of cheeks.
Her long black hair fell in a profusion of curls
from beneath a straw garden hat, over her white
neck, rippling down to her waist. She started
slightly when she saw Charles, and blushed.

The Duke smiled, and said, " Allow me to present
to you il Signor Carlo, the man who saved
my life."

No, no," said Charles, " the man whose life
the Duke saved."

The girl put out her hand with a pretty impatient
gesture, saying, " You are his friend , that
is enough. Tou will tell me the rest by-and-bj^e."

The Chevalier came up and went through the
ceremony of introduction with Parisian grace and
politeness. Charles noticed, however, that Bianca
did not give him her hand.

Is Madame the Baroness at home ? " asked
the Chevalier. " I have a letter for her."

Giovanni' cried Bianca, calling a servant
whom Charles recognized as the man he had seen
in attendance on the Baroness at the post-office
at Naples. " Is the Baroness in ? There is a
letter for her."

While the man was gone on his message the
brother and sister strolled arm-in-arm down one
of the walks, and from the tone of the Duke's
voice, and the frequent backward glances of the

girl, Charles guessed that di Caserta was telling
his sister of the affair at the gambling-house.
If onlj/' he thought, '' I could be introduced to
Euphrosyne on the same footing

The Chevalier took this opportunity of whispering
to Charles that he was very much vexed at this
kind of introduction. He liked those kind of things
to be done properly. You can't bow on gravel as
you can in a salon. He disliked a frescos of every
kind.

Madame la Baroness de Bienaimee will have
much pleasure in receiving the Chevalier de la
Yigne in the boudoir," said Giovanni, returning.

''So I'm to be left in the cold,'^ thought Charles,
ashe watched the Chevalier following the servant
across the lawn and through the door.

Come," said the Duke, strolling up. " I will
introduce you to Madame and Mademoiselle too.
We must wait, however ; the Chevalier has
some important conversation to hold with the
Baroness."

Oh ! yes," said Bianca, laughing. " He has
come all the way from Paris to see Euphrosyne."

How do you know ? " asked the Duke.

"Why, I have seen his uncle's letter to the
mamma. He is to fall in love with her. It is all
arranged."

Is Mademoiselle de Bienaimee to fall in love
with him ? " asked Charles, drily.

I don't know," said Bianca, with a merry
laugh. " I could not ; but come. Sir the Englishman,
tell me about your adventure when you were

attacked. And tell me, do tell me, whether the
Chevalier wore his white hat that night. How
funny he must have looked.'^

Charles told the little he had to tell, but his
thoughts were elsewhere. The pretty girl was
very much interested, and seemed to be pleased
with him.

'^ How handsome he is, your friend' she whispered
to her brother.

The fall of a little foot upon the gravel, a few
melodious words to her friend, and Charles looked
up. There in the golden sunlight, in all the
glorious beauty of her youth, stood Euphrosyne.
Ah ! Euphrosyne. A few wild flowers resting in
the folds of her white dress, but the fairest flower
was she. The sunlight all over her, gleaming in
her blue eyes, glittering on the golden wealth of
her rich brown hair, and lighting up all the freshness
and beauty of her sweet child-like face.

Charles stepped back and* bowed. It was not
the bow of politeness, the formal bow of the
world, the cold salutation which a gentleman gives,
as her due, to a lady. It was the involuntary inclination,
the natural bending before a higher
being. The Persian prostrates himself instinctively
before the sun, the Oriental falls down before
his illustrious potentate. The child of nature
prostrates itself before some overpowering beauty.
Charles bowed, and felt that his limbs bent intuitively.
It was the recognition he gave that he
was in the presence of a better, worthier, more
beautiful being than himself.

Euphrosyne glanced at him and blushed, and
then turning to Bianca, said in a perplexed way —

Oh ! Bianca, I have been looking for you so
long. Where have you been ? ^'

With my brother," said Bianca, '^ and with
the gentleman v^ho saved my brother's life, his
honour."

"Thank you," said Charles, with an intense
feeling of gratitude.

Indeed' said Euphrosyne, glancing at him ashe
stood palpitating with excitement. indeed.
Will you introduce me to di Caserta's saviour."

'^ Carlo, Euphrosyne ; Euphrosyne, Carlo," said
the Duke.

Charles took her prospered hand, his own trembling
so that he could hardly hold it, and bending
down raised it to his lips. Ah, blessed South. Oh
happy children of Italy, to live where nature has
not yet been fully vanquished by the cold, conventional
formalities of the !North.

Oh, Euphrosyne," said Bianca, clasping her
arms round her friend's neck. *' Do you know who
has come. The funniest thing in the world."

Who ? " said Euphrosyne.

"The Chevalier, Alphonse de la Yigne — hem."

"No," said Euphrosyne, glancing anxiously at
di Caserta, who appeared indifferent enough.
"Where is he?"

With mamma."

I must go and see him, he is my cousin, you
know," said Euphrosyne, with a mischievous smile,,
as she turned to the Duke.

^' I don't think madam e will want to see jour''
said the Duke. "Monsieur la Chevalier has some
important business to talk over with her. He has
come all the way from Paris to do so."

*'Do you know Paris'' said Euphrosyne to
Charles, as they walked down the sloping lawn to
the balustrade which crowned the precipitous sea
wall.

Do you know Leipzic ? " answered Charles,
with a smile.

Euphrosyne started slightly and looked at him
curiously.

'^ I have not answered your question' continued
Charles. '' I was thinking of a moonlit night at
Leipzic some months ago. I was very unhappy
then. I could have died then willingly. But I
was pleased that night. I saw something that
made me happy. I have not been happy since,
until, until " —

Is not this a beautiful view ? ■" said Euphrosyne,
waving her little hand towards Posilipo.

"No, I do not know Paris. I do not wish to,
I do not like large towns. Man is so cruel, so
selfish there. I love the country, the sea, the blue
sky. Yes ! that is beautiful," continued Charles,
leaning on the iron rail, drinking in all the radiant
beauties of the bay and its wonderful shores. '^ Yes,
mademoiselle, that is very beautiful. Ah, Italy,
Italy," said he, throwing out his arms.

■X- * ^ * ^

I have spoken to you twice," said Euphrosyne

VOL. I. w

after a little while, during which, she had been
looking with some admiration at his noble form,
and inspired face. "You did not hear me. My
mamma has asked us to go in. Will you come ? "

Oh ! forgive me,'^ said Charles with a start,
I was lost. A scene like that awakens many
fancies, does it not ? So much of the worlds history,
of its art, of its poetry, of its sin is connected
with those lands. I was indeed lost."

"Do you know Latin?" asked Euphrosyne, as
they walked up to the villa.

A little. I can read him enough to love him,"
said Charles, pointing to the Grotto di Posilipo,
and him enough to feel I could die for him " (indicating
Baiae), "for, mademoiselle, you know
that qui sait aimer, salt mourir."

Euphrosyne stopped and looked at him questioningly.
Then she said —

I am reading Horace and Virgil with il Padre
Benevento, from the Sta. Agate monastery. I like
them both, oh, so much."

Your life must be a happy one," said Charles
with a little bitterness. " To live here in one of
the most beautiful places on earth, far from noise
and crime, bathed in eternal sunlight, surrounded
by flowers, with the glorious sky overhead, and the
sea at your feet, to have no cares, to have time to
read all that is beautiful in poetry. To have
no "

I have many cares," said Euphrosyne as they
entered the villa.

Charles started — vanity, vanity — but when he

saw the bright smile with which Euphrosyne
greeted the Duke, who was waiting for them in
the hall with his sister, and noted the indifferent
return that di Caserta made, he saw how little he
had to do with the cares of the girl he loved.

They found the Baroness in the salon with the
Chevalier. The Baroness looked tired, the Chevalier
never looked anything else. He freshened up, however,
to go through the ceremony of introduction
to Euphrosyne. He must have been rather startled
when she burst into a merry laugh at his graceful
bow, and ran to hide her blushing face in her
mother's lap. He certainly did look funny making
a Marquis de Villager bow, bending so low that
his blonde whiskers dropped perpendicularly. The
Baroness received Charles gracefully, and, hearing
the Duke's well-worn story, said she should always
be pleased to see Charles when he should happen
to be at Sorrento.

After a cup of tea it was time to depart, for the
steamer returned at five, and the Chevalier said
that he must get back in time for table d'hote.

The girls walked down to the landing with the
men ; Euphrosyne in front with the Duke, Bianca
talking with Charles, and the little Chevalier
puf&ng behind. The boat was in waiting for them,
but as the steamer was not yet in sight the party
stood talking at the foot of the steps. Euphrosyne
was talking earnestly to the Duke, who kept
shrugging his shoulders and giving curt answers.
As they talked in Italian, Charles could not understand
them well. He was, at Bianca^ s request.

repeating the account of the " adventure." The
Chevalier was grumbling, expostulating to the
steersman of the boat on the punctuality of the
Capri-Sorrento steamboat.

At last it hove in sight, and with many adieux
they parted. The Chevalier, who was offended
with Euphrosyne, bade her a very stiff farewell.
Charles was as warm in his leave-taking as he
thought advisable.

Thee Chevalier's first remark when they got onboard
the steamer which stopped to receive them,
was —

I do most sincerely hope, my dear friend, that
we shall have oyster-patties to-night at dinner,
and that that aged Russian will not wear her black
kid gloves'

AENOLFO DI CASERTA.

Arnolfo Gustavo, thirty-eighth Duke of Caserta,
was, in his way, a remarkable man. He followed
with the greatest zeal the rule of Horace — to enjoy
the day. Life was to him so many years of pleasure,
and pleasure was to be enjoyed. Without ever
troubling himself about the f utui^e he lived for the
day. He had no religion, no creed, unless the
later epicurean one, and was biased only by his
ideas of pleasure. Being young, wealthy, and
handsome, pleasure needed not much wooing from
him, it was only too lavish in its favours. His
history was no extraordinary one. He had been
brought up under the tutelage of a brother of the
Carmelite monastery, who had instilled sufficient
wisdom into his ward to excite the boy's imagination
and make him long to get his boyhood behind
him as soon as possible. As soon as he came of
age, and entered upon one of the vastest inheritances
that ever fell to the lot of an Italian, he
began to enjoy himself. His life was that of the
ordinary man of pleasure, but in no man did the
grand principle of noblesse oblige show itself
stronger. Roue though he was, he had still the
soul of honour, and at the bottom a very affectionate
and generous heart. The wretchedness
outcast of a woman appealed by her sex as

strongly to Ms protection as any lady at court. A.
good action was never forgotten by him. As long
as he had money only these good actions were
bruited about, and he was known at naples as
^"^11 Burn' Duca." Had he become penniless, he
would at the same time have become disreputable.
Money excuses everything. Who ever heard of a
Croesus in a police-court, or when did the world
allow that a poor man was anything but " a very
deserving person ? "

He had been introduced to the Baroness shortly
after her arrival at Sorrento, and his extreme good
looks, his graceful manner, and, above all, the
accounts given everywhere of his generous and
noble deeds had won Euphrosyne's romantic heart.
He had not seen her very often, and to tell the
truth did not or would not understand her affection.
In fact he did not find in Euphrosyne the
woman he most appreciated. For him the Sicilian
with her flashing eyes, or the fiery Calabria with
her rounded and full form. Lymphatic, languishing
women, especially women who preferred books
to wine, and the conversation of learned padre to
the rattle of dice, were not for him.

Again, with a million francs a year, and at
twenty-five, he could entertain no idea of marriage,
and so Euphrosyne loved in vain. She did love
him passionately, if such a word can be applied to
the clinging love of a tender, gentle woman, who
in simplicity and ignorance of evil was less than a
child. It was perhaps this simplicity of her
character that bred this love, for had she known

the Duke better her soul would have revolted at
what his companions smiled away as pleasure.
He was always in her thoughts, and she fitted
him into each book she read. In " Paul et
Virginia" he was Paul, in " Romeo and Juliet
he was Romeo, in the doleful tale of " Abelard et
Eloise "he was Abelard. He was to her the impersonation
of all the chivalry, the beauty, the
honour of man. Poor girl, she did not know what
love meant. She loved, and wanted to be loved in
return. The thought of losing sight of Arnolfo
would bring tears to her eyes, and yet she never
pictured herself as his wife, as the mother of his
children. It was the loves a^hild unrequited.
By being unrequited its tender flame was fed.
Had the Duke returned her love, his kisses and
his caresses would soon have taught her that
the love she offered was not a love that is understood.
She might, had he asked her, have become
his wife, but marriage would have killed her. She
would have learnt that men and women do not
wander through life like loving children in a flowery
meadow. She was not as yet prepared to know of
the fierce wild passions of mankind, of the hot,
fevered grasp that bruises and destroys the bloom
and freshness of childhood.

How was Charles to know this ? What could
he fancy else but that he had come too late ? How
was he to recognise that her love for di Caserta
was not the love of a woman, but the affection of
a child ?

Had he known this he would not have suffered

as he did on the night of their return from
Sorrento. Passing up and down the terrace he
felt again how miserable his position was. At
no time in our lives do we so regret a lowly
position as when we love. Love prompts the
male in every class of the creation to show himself
in his best aspects to the female he loves. He
kept returning to the foolish idea that had he his
title and a competent fortune he should be able to
secure her for himself. He little knew the
character of the girl entertaining this thought.
Euphrosyne was not one of those foolish women
who see virtue and merit in a coronet, or
superiority in a proud coat-of-arms. She was
quite a child in these matters. In his fevered
imagination he did not see that a man can be all
that a man should be in and through himself alone.
He had in him poetry. Poetry is the expression
of a soul which recognises beauty, and is striving
after it. The highest beauty is in a perfect manor
a perfect woman. Nothing that is bad is
beautiful. Artists have felt this who paint the
impersonations of bad in ugly colours, and the
ideals of good in their brightest hues. Containing
in himself this recognition of what is good, it was
his plain duty to make himself of the good. In
Ms blind pride he was fool enough to think that
Euphrosyne loved the Duke as a duke, as a man
who had millions. At this thought a regret stole
over him that he had helped his rival, that had he
not proffered him the hundred louis the man
would then have been in a worse plight than

himself. This regret he soon dismissed as unworthy.
The Duke had been so kind to him, so
friendly in the short intercourse they had had, so
interested in him, and so frank about his own
affairs, that this thought he recognized to be
utterly unworthy of himself.

It may perhaps be well to explain fully the
connection between Charles and the late Earl of
Brookshire. Charles only knew that Lord Brookshire
was his father, of his mother he knew
nothing. In fact this knowledge had been kept
from him till his nineteenth year, when, before
going up to matriculate at Oxford, his guardian,
John Elphinstone, had called him into his study
and addressed him as follows : —

My dear Charles, I think that the time has
now come to tell you what will, I fear, pain you.
Till now you have lived with me and my family
under the impression that you are a relation of
ours. This is not so. You were placed in my
charge as Charles Benson, fifteen years ago, by a
lawyer, who explained to me that you are the son
of the Earl of Brookshire. You will understand
the kind of relationship you bear to him. I will
not dwell on that. At the same time six thousand
pounds was paid to me to be invested on your
behalf. I had never seen the lawyer, and his first
call was in answer to an advertisement of mine,
expressing my wish to receive a child to bring up
with my family. I was then staying at Lincoln.
Since then I have removed to Devises. I have
heard nothing of the lawyer, whose name, indeed,

I have forgotten. Lord Brookshire died without
leaving any will, and his estates, and indeed the
whole of his property, went to a distant cousin,
who is now in possession thereof. This I gathered
from the newspapers. It is evident that you are
the late Earl's son, as the cheque for the money
was signed by him. I have never heard any further
information about you. I never knew anything
about your mother."

This was ail that Charles ever learnt about his
family affairs. The news had at the time no great
effect on him. Returned from school with his
head full of literature, art, and music, he did not
appreciate his position. It was only later, at
Oxford, that it began to trouble him, when, by
observation of the slavish adulation paid to titles
there, he had learnt the worldly value of nobility.

The recollection of this passed through his mind,
and feeling his jealousy put him into a very unenviable
state of mind.

In this state he returned to his room, where he
found this letter from Dorothy : —

'' Ml Dear, Dear Boy,

'' I was pleased to hear that you are working,
and I hope you are living humbly and quietly
as suits your position. I do wish most sincerely
that you would drop your idea about Hauberk, and
all that nonsense. You are as good a man if your
name be Benson, or Smith, or Jones, as you would
be as the bearer of the proudest name the world
recognizes. I do so dislike the idea of your wasting

your time and opportunities in running after
a will-o^-the-wisp. You see I cannot understand
low you can be living quietly, and yet have spent
all your money in so short a time. Are you
keeping up appearances ? ' What appearances
have you to keep up ? By the way, I enclose an
advertisement which I thought might suit, for as
soon as the £20 are gone which I sent yesterday,
you will have nothing. Don't think me cold or
cruel, I love you too well, dear, to be either, but I
must speak out to you.

Believe me, still, though lecturing, your trusty

Dorothy."

The advertisement was cut from a daily paper.

WANTED, by a firm of linen drapers, a young
gentleman of good appearance and education.
Must be pushing. Will be required to travel
in the iSI'orthern Counties to advance the sale of
flannels. — Address, stating age, salary required, etc.,
to Messrs. Borthwick and Boodle, St. Martin's Lane,
London.

Dorothy had written this letter with the best of
intentions. Charles having applied to her for £20,
she naturally supposed his funds had run out, and
she further, seeing the address he gave at one of
the most expensive pensions at Naples (the Villa
Castiglione being regularly advertised, sith terms,
in Bradshaw), thought he was living extravagantly.
But her letter was an ill-timed one. It
found Charles in a state of irritated pride, and

imbued with, a feeling of spiteful impotence. Her
remarks about his name and her really well-meant
advice about the advertisement piqued him excessively.
He dashed off a letter to her, which, in a
cooler moment he would, could, never have written.

Dear Miss Crosthwaite,

What you call nonsense is the only
thing I live for. I thought you more than a
friend, but I find you entertain the same prejudiced
views as the rest of the world. Am I not
Lord Hauberk's son, the heir in the flesh to his
dignities and honour *? I do not think you mean
it, but I look on your letter as an insult.

"As regards the advertisement, I leave it to
your cooler reflection. I-prefer fancying myself in
the House of Lords to pushing flannels in the
Northern Counties. I am grateful for what you'
have done for me (I look on your money gifts as a
loan), but why write to me if you can find nothing
better to say than to insult one who suffers enough
already. I return the advt., it may be useful to
some other needy protege of yours.
Tours,

'' Hauberk."

This letter (note the signature) he posted at
once. To do him justice he regretted having
written it an hour afterwards, after perusing one
or two of Dorothy's other letters, all fall of an
inexplicable tenderness of expression towards him
and indeed tried to remedy his fault by waiting
more than two hours by the roadside post-box to

get the letter back from the carrier, in which,
however, he did not succeed. The letter made
Dorothy very unhappy. She felt so lonely sometimes
at Keswick, now that her sister was quite
estranged from her. She loved Charles well. It
has always been pointed out that Dorothy was
one of those welling hearts that must have somebody
to pour out their affection upon, and she had
poured her affection in its fullest measure on "her
boy." She pitied him for the brand that was on
him, for no fault of his own; she saw that the
stern law of " I will visit the sins of the fathers
upon the children, even unto the third and fourth
generation " was hard to understand ; yet she
resolved to be the last to encourage the boy she
loved in fostering a pride which would never bring
him anything but remorse, humiliation, and the
bitterest mortifications. What she gave him she
gave without reserve, not letting her right hand
know what her left-was doing. In all her charities
she felt as acting only as the steward of an Almighty
Master, before whom, some day soon, she
would have to lay down her accounts. She did not
at times feel very strong, giddiness took her now
and then, and though she looked forward to death
with peaceful resignation, she prayed to be spared
to see " her boy '"' doing well in the sight of God
and man. It is no exaggeration to say that she
felt more for Charles than a mother does for her
son. In her somewhat solitary life it was pleasant
to enjoy that delight, which is so essentially feminine,
of having something to care for. Something

care for. Is not that woman's joy, from the
time she can dress a doll till she closes her eyes
in death?

Times come to most people even to those surrounded
by hosts of loving friends and genial
acquaintances J when one feels as if one was
utterly deserted as if no one cared for us, when
all the world appears to us, as to Ishmael, a
matter for regret and self-accusation, and the
future presents but the view of dreary and oppressing
blank.

It was in this doleful state of mind, one, by the
way, which was very rare in cheerful little Dorothy,
that she received the letter [from Charles. It
pained her very much, and — well — tears in the
eyes of a woman over sixty are not pleasant even
to think of.

There is a perverseness in man's nature which
grows, as do all vices, by being pampered ; and
Charles, having once so far indulged his pride
and his folly as to sign a letter with a name and
a title which certainly did not belong to him,
began to think whether he could not assume the
dignity he coveted, by the mere fact of assuming
it. His pride, however, received a check the first
week of his stay at the Villa Castiglione, when
the proprietor suddenly presented him with his
bill, although it was understood, by agreement,
that his 'pensionnaires were only expected to settle
their accounts every month. There was no mistaking
that the man wanted to be convinced
that his new boarder was solvent, and there is

always an insult suspected in people who don't
one's solubility. Charles was, luckily for his
dignity, amply provided with funds. He paid the
bill, and told the man that he should leave at
once.

He carried his resolution into effect, and started
the next day, having resolved to put up at a pension
near the Yilla Dresda, so as to be near Euphrosyne.


The Chevalier expressed great sorrow on receiving
the news of his departure.

I am sorry' said he, " in fact, if it was not
against my habit to indulge in superlatives, I
should say that I am extremely sorry to hear you
are going. You will not be so comfortable at the
pension at Sorrento as you are here. I hear the
society there is very mixed, and I believe the cooking
is execrable. We shall meet, I hope, at the
Yilla Dresda more or less often. By the way, I
fancy Bianca di Caserta admires you. I noticed her
once or twice the day we were there, when Mademoiselle
de Bienaimee made such a painful exhibition
of herself. My dear fellow, if you would
only give up wearing sage-green ties, and cut
jour hair ,,,.''

Charles bade him a hurried good-bye, and fled.

END OF VOL. I.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of Ill Noir


SW512b

WHISPERS.

A VOLUME OF LYRICAL POEMS,

BY

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shepard.

Printed on Special Dutch Handmade Paper, and
bound in Parchment.

Price Six Shillings.

REMINGTON & CO.,
134, New Bond Street, London, W.

H iaobcl

IN THREE VOL U Z^I E S

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shepard.

VOL. II.

Quae medicaments non savant, ferrum sant.
Quae ferrum non sant, ignis sant.

Hippocrates.

Mention :

R E :\I 1 N G T O N AND CO.

New Bond Street, \V.

[All Rights lifxerveiL]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barteredhonourno02sher

CONTENTS.

CHAP, PAGE.

I. Jealous? I do not know that word . . i

II. John Merton and Lady . . . . 1 1

III. What became of Esther 23

IV. Wedding Bells 40

V. The Two Sisters 49

VI. What a World of Happiness their Harmony Foretells 54

VII. Ambition and Love . . . . . 70

Vii The Chevalier's Wooing 78

IX. A Letter from America . . . . 89

X. The City of the Dead 100

XI. The End is come of Pleasant Places 109

XII. Quae Medicaments non Savant, Ferrum Sant . 123

XIII. Quae Ferrum non Sant, Ignis Sant . . 138

XIV. The Chevalier Proposes 151

XV, Can the Leopard Change his Spots ? 1 64

XVI. A Newspaper Paragraph . . . . 176

XVII. Harlot Mother ! I Curse You 178

XVIII. True Hearts are More than Coronets . . 187

XIX. Lost 198

XX. Open-eyed Conspiracy . . . . 205

XXI. The Man of Law 217

XXII. Oh, That Mine Enemy would Write a Book ! . 228

XXIII. Peckham Lodge . . . . . 236

CHAPTER I.

JEALOUS? I DO NOT KNOW THAT WORD.

The pension where Charles now pitched his camp,
was not exactly in Sorrento, but lay about a
quarter of an hour's walk, through the winding
lanes, from the village. It was most beautifully
situated in the midst of gardens and orange trees
and lemon-trees, pomegranate and myrtle bushes.
The upper floors all led out on to different large
terraces overhung with the drooping vine. The
house had been an old monastery, and had, after
the tyrannic dissolution of the brotherhood by an
arbitrary king, been sold to the family of the
people who then kept it. It was built round three
sides of a quaint old square, in the middle of which
was a well of great depth and most delicious coolness.
The open side faced the gardens which
sloped down to the ridge of the sea wall, the seashore
being approached by a flight of steps, tunnelled
out in the rock, similar to those which led
to the Villa Dresda. Apart from the great beauty
of its position, the terms of the place were very
much more within the reach of Charles' purse

VOL. II. B

than at the Yilla Castiglione. Be got a beautiful
bedroom, opening on to the upper terrace, and full
board for six and a half francs a day.

Truly, Italy is the land for poets, thought
Charles, as he sat on the terrace, the evening of
his first day at Sorrento, and saw the sun go
down behind Ischia. The whole sky seemed
aflame with rosy light, which was reflected in
the grey bine sea, from the distant horizon as
far as to the line of dazzling foam that lapped
the purple shores of Ischia and Procida. The
effect was truly marvellous. Colours of every
kind lit np the sky. Clouds, purple, red, blue,
green, clouds tinged at the borders of their snow
white mantles with pink, orange, violet, and
yellow, sailed slowly across the firmament like so
many gorgeous fairies ushering Apollo to his restor
welcoming the pale moon rising, accompanied
by a few dim stars, behind the flaming cupola
of Vesuvius. Then, as the light died out and the
blush of evening gave place to the frowning darkness
of night, and the moon reigned in the stead of
the blazing sun, the scene discovered new beauties.
The contrast of the sweet, soft, white light of the
moon with the fierce, ominous, ruddy glare of
Vesuvius ; the reflection of both these lights in
the restless sea, the gleam of the pale light on the
shining leaves of the lemon trees, the rippling of
the waves on the shingle, the last notes of the late
cicada, the nightingale beginning her chant, the
wind rustling in the forest-clad mountains behind,
the melodious song of some home-wending muleteer,

the faint, far off serenade of returning fishermen,
the endless combinations of beauty and
music, each spot in the whole vast panorama full
of infinite grace and suggestion, presented together
a picture the impersonation of beauty.

A cheese-monger from Cheapside, standing
where Charles was, would have felt inspired, would
have learnt that there are things beyond Cheddar,
beauties superior to Chester, and that Stilton is
not, and should not be, the ultimate dim Tale of
man's aspirations.

Though within a stone's throw of the Villa
Dresda, Charles could never muster courage
enough to call again. He lacked the courage,
though he earnestly desired to see Euphrosyne.
He would often start from the hotel with the intention
of going to the Villa, would reach the iron
gates of the Baroness's gardens, would stand wistfully
looking through the bars, and still could
never bring himself to enter. His nervousness
never came upon him until he had first reached
the gate, and often he would return a hundred
yards or so, and bracing himself up make his way
once more to the Villa, but his courage would then
again fail him, and he would return, dejected, to
his abode.

It was not till he had been over a week at
Sorrento that he met Euphrosyne again. He was
lying one morning, with a Homer in his hand, on
a grassy bank by the side of the main road to
Massa, lazily watching the dancing flight of some
radiant dragon flies, skimming the dusty road.

The Homer did not receive much attention, and
who should blame its reader ? The past is all very
swell when the present palls, but when all invites
to enjoyment and ease the present should be
enjoyed. What day-dreams passed through
Charles's head as he gazed wistfully towards the
sea, what emblems were suggested, what music
faintly echoed in his mind? All the beauty of the
world was there, and there only for Euphrosyne.

Euphrosyne was taking a walk alone in that
direction, she passed Charles without being
noticed although at the time his full eyes were
fixed on her. He was thinking of her, she was
there, but he did not notice her. It was not till
she bowed to him that he started to his feet, with
flushed cheeks, and with his hair in the wildest
confusion. He did not seem to understand for a
moment or two, then he laughed and gave her
greeting.

Excuse me, mademoiselle, I was dreaming, I
think ; I did not see you.^'

*' You had your eyes on me,^' said Euphrosyne
smiling.

"Yes, over there's said he, pointing to the skies
of the horizon.

Euphrosyne looked at him, and paused. Then
she said —

'are you staying here? Is di Caserta here

tbo?''

"Always di Caserta, always di Caserta,"
thought Charles. He answered that he thought
the Duke was still at Naples, he had not seen him

for more than a week. Then he asked timidly if
he might walk a little way with her — he felt lonely
he said.

She felt lonely she answered, he might walk
with her. Why bad he never called if he had been
in Sorrento a week ? She so much wanted to hear
about di Caserta. What was this service he had
done him ?

]Soothing answered Charles bitterly. " I lent
him a little money. Void toutes

"Did Arnolfo want moneyed"' asked Euphrosyne.
" How strange that he should have asked
you. The Baroness would" —

"He did not ask me," said Charles, interrupting,
"I lent it to him. He paid it back. That
is the ends

walked on in silence. At last Charles
l^roke out —

Why are you so interested in the Duke ? "

Without a sign of hesitation, but with a little
blush and a voice full of infinite tenderness,
Euphrosyne answered —

I love him."

There, he had it from her lips. It was finished,
this dream of his. She was not of much worth,
after all. His question had been indiscreet, but
how indiscreet her answer. What would a love
be worth that was proclaimed to strangers ? Where
was her modesty, her maidenly reserve ?

Euphrosyne continued —

You know what love is, do you not ? You
love Horace, you say."

Bah ! " said Charles, '' Is that love ? I may
feel for him, that were he here to-day, a contemporary,
I should admire him, and perhaps love
iiiin. The love for a memory, for a name, is not
the same as the lose for a living person. Do you
understand me ? '^

'hardly; I can fancy loving and hating a
memory, a man of past ages, a name, as strongly
as a man of to-day. I put Dante under my pillow
and threw Voltaire into the fire when I was a
child."

And now are you no longer a child ? "

"Ah, me! I fear not," said Euphrosyne sadly.
I love to think so, but they will not let me be
one, I think. I must walk and not run. I may
not sing now when my heart is full of pleasure.
I must be quiet and reserved. Ah, no ! I am no
child."

Is it quiet and reserved to tell a stranger whom
you love ? "

Euphrosyne was silent awhile then she said —

You asked me."

I did, and I am sorry ; there are things we had
better not know. Delusions are sweet sometimes."

Why should you be sorry ? "

Would you not be sorry if one day your lover
told you that he loved another woman ? "

"Ko; why, I should be glad. I think it
makes people happy to love."

Would it not make you jealous ? "

"Jealous — I do not know that word. It is a
word I do not understand."

Charles stopped, and looked her full in the eyes.
There was a truth there, in its well of liquid light.
The walked back.

'' Tell me' said Euphrosyne, " what you mean ;
tell it to me over again."

I said that there are things which men would
rather never hear. There are dreams from which
there should be no awaking. I was happy before
you said what you did ; I am not happy now."

Do you not like Arnolfo ? "

Yes."

Why then be angry with me for sharing your
feeling towards him. Oh ! he is noble, he is
generous, he is beautiful."

Your love is no uncommon one," said Charles
with a short laugh. '^ Beauty and generosity soon
find hearts to love them. I liked him for neither
of these qualities."

"But you do like him, and this makes me
happy."

After this Charles reverted no more to the
subject. He talked to the girl of love and war,
of heroes and heroines, of beauty and chivalry,
of romance and pathos, and made her interested
and pleased with him. When he left her at the
gates of the Yilla Dresda she put out her hand
and said —

"You are very clever. I shall like you too.
Good-bye."

Charles returned to his pension full of bitter
and remorseful thoughts. The time he had spent
with Euphrosyne had only served to feed the flames

tis love. He did not understand her, that is
certain. He did not understand the priceless
value of the girl he loved. She was not the
ordinary woman he took her for. He saw her
only with the eyes of the body, he saw her only
in the flesh. He had not known her long enough
to learn that even if beauty did not claim her as
favourite daughter, she would still be of women
the most desirable. Like a miser gloating over
the golden case of a casket, full of the most rare
and beautiful pearls, without knowing its contents,
he was taken by her form alone. And yet who,
looking into her deep eyes, could not read the
innocence, the purity, the childlike simplicity of
her character. Yet, in spite of his ignorance of
her full value, he loved her intensely. She was
worth more than any man born could ever offer her.

He again returned to the thought that she
admired the Duke as a wealthy man, as the
descendant of a long line of glorious ancestors,
and with this thought returned his regret. The
regret brought with it perverseness, and, let it be
said, he felt glad he had written to Dorothy ashe
had.

He entered the hotel, and spent the minutes
before lunch in turning over the leaves of the
visitors' book which lay in the hall, indulging in
all kinds of speculations, suggested by the names
therein. Amongst the names that occurred in the
last yearns register he came across the following : —
J John Merton and Lady,

San Francisco, U.S."

Suddenly it flashed across Ms mind that tMs
was the name of the man who had betrayed his
friend Lovell's friend. With pleasurable excitement,
for he rejoiced at the chance of doing his
friend, to whom he felt grateful for various kindness,
a valuable service, be called a waiter and
pointing to the names, asked the man for information
about those people.

The waiter replied that they were Americans,
that they had stayed there a few weeks, that they
had been very liberal to him, emphasising this
latter, that they were travelling in Ital', and that
they were, according to a letter the proprietor had
that morning received, about to return to Sorrento,
and finally that lunch was ready.

Charles took breakfast hastily, and spoke to the
proprietor, who confij-med the waiters statement,
and added that Mr. and Mrs. Merton were expected
in three or four days.

Charles walked straight to Sorrento, and, going
to the telegraph station, sent the following message
to Lovell : —

^' Sorrento.

Dear Lovell —

^^ A man called John Merton and a woman
of the same name are expected here in a few days,
at the Grande Sentinelle Hotel. Both Americans,
and hailing from San Francisco.

'^ Yours,

"Hauberk."

Late that evening he received the answer —

Leipzic.
Dear Hauberk —

^' Eternal thanks for message. I leave for
Naples to-night, on Bartholomew's track. If only
I can see Esther.

"Yours most affection lately,

"Herbert Lovell."

In four days Charles received another telegram
from his friend, from Eome, announcing his
arrival there. About the time that he received
the telegram Mr. John Merton and lady arrived at
the Grande Sentinelle.

Charles went to Naples to meet Herbert, who
arrived at about four in the afternoon by the express.
The two friends were very glad to see
each other. Herbert was especially pleased at
seeing Charles. He was very much excited, and
appeared wild and unsettled. The thought of
seeing his dear friend, still dear though stained
and dishonoured, again was uppermost in his
mind. He kept appealing to Charles as they drove
from Castellamare to Sorrento —

Let me see her ! let me see her ! and then for
Bartholomew."

JOHN Merton And LADY.

The carriage which, the had taken at Castella-mare
(for it was too late to reach Sorrento by sea,
and they had had to go round the bay by train as
far as Castellamare and on by carriage) did not
proceed fast enough for the impatient young
American, who, as he approached nearer his destination,
appeared to be burning with excitement,
and continually urged the driver to lash his horses
on. The beauties of one of the most picturesque
drives in the world were thrown away upon him,
not one of the manifold features of transcendent
interest, which the landscape as well as the people
must present to all who see Naples for the first
time, elicited a single remark.

Yes, it is beautiful I daresay' he would say,
whenever Charles pointed out some beautiful view
or place of interest. " But where is Esther ?
where is Esther ? " As each of the villages which
lie between Castellamare and Sorrento were
approached, he would clutch Charles by the arm,
and ask in a voice hoarse with excitement, "Is
that Sorrento ? '-^ and when he heard how far it
was still off would sink back peevishly in his seat,
only to spring up again, and repeat, " Where is
Esther ? where is Esther ? "

As they drew near the village he could hardly

restrain himself from jumping out of the carriage
and running thither, but contented himself with
shouting to the driver, in French, German, and
English, to drive his horses faster. Charles, as he
marked the hectic flush on the young man's cheek,
and saw his nervous hands ball and loosing, and
heard his breath coming and going in short spasmodic
gasps, and saw his whole form quivering
with excitement, felt that he must never permit
him to see his enemy in such a state if he wished
to prevent murder I He spoke to Lovell and bade
him be calm, but all the answer he got was the
same, *' Where is Esther? where is Esther? "

At last the Grande Sentinelle was reached; it
was seven o'clock, and they had done their drive
in good time. At least so the driver remarked,
pointing to his steaming and foam-covered horses.

Lovell tossed him some money, and bidding
Charles " follow," shouted out as he entered the
house, " Where is the proprietor ? "

Ie man of the house approached, and asked him
what he wanted.

Charles made him a sign, but the man did not
notice it — the hall was dark.

Lovell said, in a voice quivering with excitement
—

You have here a Mrs. Merton ; where is she ? "

Charles repeated the sign.

The man said —

'' La Signora Merton, with il Signor Merton, are
in their apartments on the first floor. They do not
dine at table d'hoteJ'*

Lovell tore upstairs, Charles after lira, leaving'
the proprietor in amazement, thinking that surely
some lunatic was at large.

Be calm, be calm," said Charles, as he reached
his friend, who was standing on the landing of the
first floor.

Calm I need be ! Where is she ? Where is
she?" continued he. '' Bj God, I will breakdown
every door in the house but I will find her ;
and him, ah ! him."

While he was yet speaking a door that led on to
the landing was opened, and a waiter came out,
saying, as he closed the door —

Yes, Signora Merton, I will attend to your
order. Did you say at six ? "

The words were hardly out of the man's mouth,
and before Charles could stop him, when with a
cry that had little of human in it Herbert dashed
at the door, thrust the waiter aside, burst the door
rather than pushed it open, and rushed into the
room. The room was dimly lighted. One solitary
candle on the piano, at which a Lady was playino-^
shed a feeble light, but by it could be discerned
the figure of a man standing by the open window.

Herbert had taken all this in at a glance ; he
crossed the room and went up to the woman without
a word, with his arms out, his dress in confusion,
and tottering rather than walking.

The man, who had been startled by his entry,
and who probably took him for a drunken guest of
the pension, stepped in between them.

With a cry of rage Herbert leapt upon him and

seizing him by the throat dashed him aside. The
woman gave a startled cry and snatched up the
candle, throwing its full light upon the intruder,
and at the same time discovering her features.
But Herbert was blinded and with a cry of " Esther,
I have found you," threw his arms round her.

The man, who had recovered from Herbert's
attack, jumped to the rescue, seized him by the
collar, and dragged him away, saying —

Are you mad, sir, or drunk ? "

Herbert struggled and freed himself, and then
for the first time looked at the man. The girl
had run to the door, and was crying for help.
Charles had entered the room and stood prepared
to prevent further violence.

Who are you, and what do you want ? " said
John Merton.

Herbert looked at him. The darkness of the
room, lit now only by the dim light of the evening,
prevented him from seeing the person's face. He
said slowly, as if repeating something he had learnt
by heart —

'' You are tall, you are violent. You call yourself
John Merton. You are a liar and a thief. I
am Herbert Lovell, and you are Bartholomew."

The man laughed a merry laugh. Herbert continued,
interposing himself between the door —

It is not the time to laugh now. You have had
more than three years for mirth. Your sorrows
shall begin now. I know you. I know you as a
villain and a thief. I have come to take Esther
from you. I have come to punish you.^'

John Merton listened to liii in the greatest
amazement. Then he said —

I hear by your accent that sou are an
American. You are probably drunk. You have
played your nonsense long enough, and now you
will leave my room. If you live in the house I
shall come to you tomorrow for an explanation of
this. You have insulted my sister's

"You lie' said Herbert; '''you lie. Not your
sister, sour mistress ! Bartholomew ! Thief, embezzler,
seducer, you see that I know you ! "

This is really getting too stronger' said John
Merton, who began to recognize that he was dealing
not with a drunkard, but either with a lunatic or
with somebody labouring under a strong delusion.

'^ I do not know what you mean. My name is
John Merton, not Bartholomew. The lady is my
sister, Mildred Merton ; and, here, I have had
enough of this. Go and get something cooling to
drink, and get out*"

What Herbert might have done in his fury cannot
be said had not the people of the house,
aroused by Mildred's cries, come hurrying to the
room with lights and dragged Herbert away, who
was just commencing a second and more violent
attack on the supposed Bartholomew.

What is the matter ? ^' said the proprietor of
the establishment, who was, with two waiters,
holding Lovell back.

There was plenty of light in the room now.
Mildred had entered, and stood behind her brother,
frightened and pale.

Herbert glanced at the Mertonss. Instead of the
villanous face of Bartholomew, he saw the fresh,
cheerful face of a young man of about twenty, and,
instead of Esther, a fair-haired girl, whose age her
most jealous detractors could not have put higher
than eighteen.

He stood looking at them, and they, with no
less astonishment, at him. It was clear neither
party had seen the other before. The proprietor,
still clinging to Herbert, repeated his question.
There was a long silence. Most of the pensionnaires
had gathered together on the first landing,
and were crowding their heads in at the door,
anxious to learn what was the matter.

At last Herbert spoke. He had recovered his
self-command, though he looked as if he could not
understand the matter at all, an expression which
by the way, was seated on the faces of all those
present.

It is a mistake," said he.

'' Tour hear that ? " said John Merton, waving
his hand to bid the proprietor release Herbert and
leave the room. "It is a mistake. Ladies and
gentlemen, there is no cause for alarm, and no
reason why you should not return to your dinner."

Then, as the people went away, by no means
satisfied at this denouement of what had promised
to be a tragic adventure, he closed the door,
and going up to Herbert, who was leaning exhausted
and as a man in a dream on Charles'
arm, he said —

Now, countryman, what was this mistake? '^

But poor Herbert could not answer. Shame,
wonder, and reset enforced silence in him. He
stood for some time in the same position, looked at
John Merton, then at his sister, and finally at
Charles, who was as astonished as the rest. At
last he said, addressing the latter —

I think I had better go back to Leipzic,'^ and
with this he walked to the door.

'*No, no,'^ said Charles, interposing himself;
''no, Herbert, you must explain yourself to this
lady at least. You must see that's

is it all about ? " said John Merton,
addressing Charles.

I hardly know myself. It appears my friend
has lost a dear friend, a relation, I believe, who
ran away from X — , in the States, with a person
who assumed the name of John Merton. My
friend has just come all the way from Saxony to
meet you. He took you for the man, I suppose,
in the dark, and the lady, your sister, for the
lady''

"X—, in the States ?'' cried John and Mildred
at the same time.

Yes X—, in the States," said Herbert, who
had somewhat recovered. " But I see it is a mistake.
I am dazed and ashamed to-night, to-mon-ow,
if you will let me, I will explain all. I can show
you then that I had grounds for a mistake. I am
truly sorry at what has happened. 1 hope the
lady will forgive me. I think she will when she
hears that I took her for," cried he bitterly "the

VOL. II. c

best friend I ever had — for an unhappy, unhappy
woman''

"No, countryman," said John kindly, taking
him by the hand, ^ not tomorrow, to-night. Yet
rest a little 5 you are tired and excited. Mildred,
a chair for our countryman. Mildred, some
brandy, quick. There, friend, sit down ; and you,
sir, kindly take a seat. You will tell us about it
by-and-bye, and I think I can see something clear
in this mystery. Mildred, do you remember
Doctor Toogood?"

Can I ever forget him, John ? "

Do you remember the bag and umbrella ? "

Of course''

"Then I think I can meet our countryman
half-way in his explanation. Do you know,
Mildred, that I think we must learn to forget our
benefactor."

"Forget him ! John, oh, never ! "

"Forget him, if we would not think of him
other than as an angel from heaven. I fear we
were only the tools of a designing man. I fear
we shall have to learn to forget him if we would
not unsay the prayers we have said for him
together, forget him before we recall the blessings
our old mother spoke over him, forget him before
we resolve to follow the last words, the last command,
she gave us on her deathbed."

Herbert, who had listened to this conversation
in a kind of stupefied amazement, rose and said
vaguely, " Then you are not Bartholomew ? "

No," said John Merton with a smile. " I understand

jour mistake now. I am afraid I know
Bartholomew."

'^ Where ? where is he ? " cried Herbert, starting
to his feet.

''I don't know. I met him at X — more than
three years ago."

How ? as Bartholomew ? "

^'No, as Doctor Toogood."

Tell me, tell me ! " cried Herbert ; '' tell me aU
about it."

'^ Perhaps," said Charles, '^ as this is apparently
a family matter, I had better retire ? "

Do you want your brother to go ? " asked John
Merton, addressing Herbert.

'' Who ? " asked Herbert.

'^ Your brother ; are you not his brother ? " said
John, indicating Charles.

"No," answered Charles quickly, " certainly
not, I am Charles Hauberk."

No," said Herbert, with a glance of affection
at his friend. " No, we are not brothers, we are
good friends."

'^ I beg your pardon, gentlemen," said John,
looking from one to the other, " I thought you
were. Yon are not unlike each other."

Charles drew himself up rather stiffly, glanced
at his signet ring, whereon the arms of the Hauberk
family were engraved, and proceeded to the
door.

No, stay, Charles," said Herbert. '' You have
heard the beginning of the story, and you may as
swell hear the end."

"I am not very much interested," said Charles,
sitting down, indifferently.

VVell, gentlemen, I have not much to tell. I
only saw Bartholomew, if indeed he and Dr.
Toogood be the same person," began John —

Never ! " said Mildred.

He then told them that, being left in a state of
utter poverty with his sister at X — , he had received
a sudden visit from a man whom he described,
and whose description tallied exactly with
Herbert's conception of Bartholomew, who had
inquired into their case, and who came the next
day, bringing them the wherewithal to travel
to San Francisco, where their mother lived.
He added the details about the bag and the
umbrella, and finished his short story by saying
that he trusted to God that this man, whom they
had always cherished in their hearts as their
benefactor, for whom they had so often prayed
together, might not turn out to be the same
villain that Herbert was seeking.

'^ Of that, I am afraid, there is no doubt," said
Herbert.

'' What could have been his meaning in giving
you the bag and umbrella? " asked Charles.

He sent it," said Mildred, " as a present to
some unknown person. He told us so. You
remember, John. He was too good to lie."

'' That was only to put the X — people off the
scent," said Herbert. " It was even more atrociously
arranged than we imagined."

I am afraid," said John, going up to Mildred

and throwing his arm round her neck, " I am
afraid, Mildred dear, that Dr. Toogood was u badman.
He only used us. It was no kindness, but
villainy. Do you remember what you told me
after you had kissed him ? "

'eyes," said Mildred, mournfully.

^' We must forget him dears' said John.

"No, John. He did us a kind act, whatever
his motive was. We must not forget that. Weare
obliged to him."

"No longer by the ties of gratitude. Our
obligation is one of money. We must try and
find out his whereabouts, and repay him what he
has lent us."

A long conversation ensued, discussing the affair.
John fully forgave Herbert when he had heard the
details, and found the mistake so amusing, that he
kept going off into fits of laughter in which, after
a time, Herbert was fain to join. Charles was
rather sulky. The idea of confounding a Hauberk
with a Dixon-Lovell ! Mildred seemed sad. She
was combating with the truth. She did not like
to think of the Doctor as a bad man.

As the evening drew on they got quite sociable
over a bottle of Lacrimse Christi wine, which John
Merton ordered in. They had plenty to talk about.
Both Charles and Herbert found the young man
and his sister as kind and generous as they were
intelligent.

Herbert arranged to stay at the pension for a
few days. He said he had not the courage to go
back again, and wanted to get his mind settled

again. A room was assigned to him near
Charles.

That night, as he was getting into bed, Charles
knocked, came in, and going up to Herbert, took
his hand, saying, "I was offended at being mistaken
for your brother. I have come to say that
I wish I had a brother like you ; I wish I were half
so worthy, so good, so true, even so much a gentleman,
as your's

'^I am only a brewer's adopted son's said Herbert,
with a warm grasp of his friend's hand,
*' and you — well, I know what blood you have in
you. I wish, too, my dear fellow, that I had a
brother like you. Let us be very good friends.
There was no offence. I saw what you felt. I
would have explained at the time, only my head
was too full of Bartholomew. What a nice girl
that Mildred is. Do you know — I think I shall
stay on heres

WHAT BECAME OF ESTHER.

Copt of letter from Miss Sabine Crostliwaite,
fiancee Hiram, to Miss Dorothy Crosthwaite,
spinster, of Laburnum Cottage, Keswick.

*' Grosvenor Gardens,

London, W.
"My Dear Dorothy,

'' I bave been talking to Bartlemj about
your unkind behaviour, and the way in which he
has urged me to forgive you, proves more than
anything else what a sweet disposition is his ! He
says that bliss being mine I ought to distil sweetness
around me, and I quite agree with him. You
have been very nasty and unsisterlike to me, but
I can, and will, forget it. I ani about to become
the bride of a good and holy man, and far be it
from me to bring rancour between him and his
new relations. You know, or perhaps as you live
at Keswick you don't know, that in the drama it
is a rule that the three affinities should be preserved.
I don't know what the three affinities
are, but certainly a sister is one, and therefore
applying this rule to social life, I wish to preserve
you as a sister, and not as a spiteful enemy. 1
know it must ' rile ' (this is Party's expression)
you to see me married while you remain single, but

it can't be helped. Women race to the altar, as
Dickens says. We must take our chance.

I write, therefore, to ask you to our wedding,
which is definitely fixed for Monday three weeks.
It will be quiet and inexpensive. It is a particular
good trait in my bridegroom's character that he
desires me to spend as little money as possible on
myself.

I have had a full settlement of my money made
on myself, capital and interest, so that poor
Bartie canst touch one penny without my consent.
He opposed this very much, asking if I had no
confidence in him ; but he gave in in the end, and
everything is comfortably settled.

Our plans for our wedded life are not quite
settled yet. We think of going a trip to
Normandy or Paris, or perhaps to Guernsey for
two or three weeks. Bartie has determined to give
up his cure of souls at St. OJphage^s, and rest
awhile before taking another appointment. We
shall perhaps settle in London after our honeymoon,
or else find a place in the country.

We are to be married by special licence, for
Bartie is so modest and retiring that he does not
want his name published abroad, at the Mary
Magdalen Chapel, in Dupeher Street, W., and we
shall leave London that same night.

Now, with reference to another matter. You
remember when you were in London last, when
you made yourself so disagreeable to me that I
had to refuse to see you, you had an adventure
not a creditable one, let me say — with a young

woman whom sou picked up in the street. It
appears that you kept her two days in Grosvenor
Hotels and had doctors and lawyers to consult
with her, as if she was anything but what is too
disgraceful to mention. You were called away to
Keswick suddenly on the same day, and had no
time to hear the whole story which the young
person had to tell you. You were always very
silly, and you have exceeded your silliness here.
You sent the lawyer to me to arrange the affair for
you. Mr. Bennett came, and began stating the
affair, when Bartlemy, who was in the room,
jumped up and said —

*' ' Sir, this is not fit for ladies' ears.'

The lawyer stopped and said he had been
charged by Miss Crosthwaite to tell it to me.
Bartlemy said —

' '1 his lady is soon to be my wife, anything that
interests her interests me, and she, having full
confidence in me, will allow me to arrange the
matter. Sabine leave the room, this is not fit for
you to hear.'

I went. I love obeying so dear and good a
man, and left them alone. I don't know what he
did, or what was arranged. Bartlemy said it was
a case for charity, and that he was grateful to me
for bringing it under his notice. He asked me
for £50 to settle the affair, which I gave him. I
shall be glad to have the £50 back from you, as,
you know, I cannot do your charities and mine
also.

I don't know why you have not written to me

all this month, but I forgive you that with othe r
offences.

'* Tour affectionate sister,

Sabine."

Pes. — When you come up to London you had
better put up at the Grosvenor again, as I am
afraid I shall not have much room in my house for
you'

"P.P.S.— Don't forget the £50.'^

Dorothy was vexed with this letter. It came at
the same time as Charles' letter from the Villa
Castiglione. Sabine's hurt her less than Charles'.
She loved Charles almost better than her sister.
The two coming together were very hard. Her
state of mind, when she received these letters has
been already described.

This is the place to relate as accurately as
possible what had taken place between Dorothy,
Esther, and John Bennett on the second day of
their being together, which, partly owing to the
slackness of the post-ofB.ce officials and partly
to Charles' carelessness in losing Dorothy's second
letter, has been withheld from the reader's knowledge
for some time.

It will be remembered that as soon as Miss
Crosthwaite introduced the woman to Lawyer
Bennett, Lawyer Bennett had appeared to recognise
her. We have had the story as far as where
he broke out with the cry of " If only Lord Brookshire
! " for such was his exclamation.

Let Dorothy, who is truthful enough, in all
sooth, finish the story in the words she often used
when talking about the sequel of her adventure.

No sooner had Lawyer Bennett mentioned his
lordship's name, than the young woman, giving
a cry of shame, fell fainting at my feet. I looked
at him for a moment. Down he went on his knees
and took her head into his arms.

' What a clumsy fellow I am he said. ' There,
there, dear. Don't take on so.'

«^ My indefatigable little chambermaid and I
soon came to the rescue ; of course women know
more about these things than law-book men, but
it took a good deal of time to get her restored, and
when she did, she looked so wretched, so ill, so
scared, that I told the lawyer that he must not
make any more talk.

He answered, most politely and kindly, ' I am
very sorry for the poor girls faintness ; but do you
now, madam, that I have been looking for this
lady for years, at least if I am not mistaken as to
her identity, which, after what has occurred, is not
probable. However, I see no chance at present of
indulging in a lawyer's favourite recreation, cross-examining,
and I will come again in two hours.
This will really be the best business I have done
for years, besides doing several people an inestimable
service.'

"With this he departed, leaving me in great
astonishment. I could not understand him at all.
How could this poor girl be connected with a
member of the House of Lords? How did all

these strange meetings come about ? What a
worry and a flurry I was in ! Eeally poor little
Dorothy^s^s head had begun to turn.

The woman was better in a few minutes. She
began to speak. She kept repeating —

'Is he gone ? Oh, don't let him see me ! No,
no, don't let bim see me ! He will do me a mischief;
he will, he will indeed.'

1 said — ' My dear girl, I think Mr. Bennett is
the last person who would do anybody any injury.'

' Yes he will. Oh, don't let me see him ! Tell
me that he is gone. I cannot see him. I shall go
mad. Everything is so horrible. Oh, do not let
me see him ! '

'' I said, ' Well, my dear, if you do not want to
see him I don't see why you should. You are
under my protection, a weak little woman's protection
it is true, but the weak little woman is sturdy,
and you shan't be touched.'

She was too weak to reply, but took my hand
and kissed it gratefully.

I continued, ' But he is coming back in two
hours.'

' No, no,^ cried she in a weak voice. ' Nos
no, I can't see him,' and so saying she rose to
her feet and staggered across the room towards
the door.

"stay,' said I, gently detaining her, 'you
must not go like that ; you must talk to me first.
Are you really frightened of this good man ? '

' Yes, yes, yes ! ' cried she, rising again.

' Well,' said I, ' if that's the case, I do not

see why sou should see him. I'll take you away
at once.'

'' ' Please, please,' said she, sinking on her knees.
'Dear lady, take me away any — anywhere. Take
me back to the street where you found me. Let me
die in the gutter, but do not let any more shame
come upon me.'

I did not know what to do, I felt so perplexed
that I thought of running away. You see
Dorothy is not always sensible. I did, I really
did think of running back all the way to Keswick.
Was not a sensible idea ? But I didn't. I began
to think more rationally, and then I said —

'''^You shan't be put to any more suffering,
child. You shall come away. He is coming back
in two or three hours, and then you must be gone.
As soon as we are ready we will go.'

Her only answer was another kiss on Dorothy's
wrinkled hand. I ordered some tea, and we were
both glad of the refreshment. I let her rest awhile.
It was not much good, for at every footfall she
started, her black eyes rolling wildly, and cried,
Oh, there he is ! Oh, let us go ! ^

'' In about an hour I ordered a cab, and giving
her a cloak to throw over her head went downstairs
with her on my arm. The waiters stared
rather, and one or two pert maids giggled. I got
her out into the cab. Then, of course, the driver
asked, ' Where to, madam? ' I declare I did not
know. I thought of saying, 'To Laburnum
Cottage,' but that was absurd. I looked first at
the cabman and then at the woman, who had sunk

back into a corner. At last remembering the name
I said, ' Charing Cross.'

'^As we were driving there I began to think.
Here was a nice state of affairs for a simple
country woman. No more London adventures forme,
thank you. At last I bit on a plan. Ob,
wasn't I thankful when I bad thought it out. I
took out my purse. I had cashed a cheque for
fifty pounds that morning, and bad the money in
my pocket still.

"I did not speak to the poor lady; I had
addressed her once or twice, but she could not
answer. She kept repeating, 'Take me away,
take me away ; ^ and that was all she ever said.

Well, my plan was arranged. It was the best
I could think of. When we got to Charing Cross
the driver stopped, and asked if we were for the
station.

' No,' said I, ' go to the first saddlery shop you
see.'

He obeyed, and I got out at a shop in the
Strand, where they sold portmanteaus. I bought
a little leather one, and directed the driver to a
dress shop. Here I bought sundry things for the
woman, two new gowns, some blue ribbon for her
hair, for I thought how much better she would
look with her hair nicely smoothed down and tied
up behind with a little blue ribbon, some underclothing,
in fact, a complete outfit.

I then said to the driver —

^ Where can I get cheap lodgings ? '

He looked at me and whistled.

' So you're a bolting, are you ? ' said he.

"I told him that I did not understand him, but
would he kindly drive me where I asked. He said
there were comfortable lodgings at the Queen's
Hotel, Newgate, or at the Stone Jug Inn, Pennons
I said I did not want to go to either an
hotel or an inn. He laughed. I do not know
what I should have done had not a commissionaire
come by at that moment ; a nice civil man. He
asked me if he could serve me. I said yes. I asked
him to find me a cheap lodging, not in the centre
of the city. He said he was at my service, and
asked me where I should like to go to. I said it was
immaterial, as long as it was in a quiet, airy street.
He said his missus, his wife I presumed, had a
lodoinof to let in Burton Row, Westminster.
Would that suit ? I said we would see. He then
got on to the box and we drove through Westminster,
by the side of the Thames, and up a little
.street. We stopped before a Kettle clean-looking
house in a row of houses. He got down and let us
in. His wife was a very nice motherly person. I
said I wanted lodging for a lady. Had she one ?
She showed me a clean, tidy little room on the
upper floor, neatly furnished and altogether .
I was then forced to tell a story.
I said the lady was a poor relation of mine, who
had been ill and had been ordered change of air. I
asked her if she would undertake to board and
lodge her, and do her washing. The woman
assented. I then asked her her terms. She said
she would take her for 35s. per week, all included.

I said that would suit. I asked her for a receipt
for eight weeks in advance. She wrote it and I
paid her fifteen pounds. The extra sovereign, I
said, was to see that she took good care of her
lodger. The woman thanked me, and said it was
not necessary. She would do her best. I begged
her to keep it. I then conducted Esther up stairs,
and the husband carried up the trunk. I asked the
woman to light a fire and prepare the room, and
also to get some tea ready. While she was doing
this, I spoke seriously to the lady. I said I would
leave her there, apparently in good hands, and I
hoped she would soon get well, and hear from her
friends. I told her I would write to her from
home, and would see that I kept her whereabouts
secret. I then gave her the receipt and ten pounds
in cash. She took them, but they dropped from
her hands. She did not speak. I put the money
into her pocket and took the receipt away with
me. I then committed her to the woman's care,
and told her to look well after her. Mrs. Martin,
for such was the woman's name, said she would.
I then bent over the poor lady and kissed her. She
kissed me back, but said nothing.'

I said, ' My dear girl, 1 must go now. I think
you will be comfortable here, and at any rate you
must stay till you hear from your friends. Your
rent and board are paid for two months, and you
have enough to go on with. I do not think you
have done anything wrong. I am sure not. I
wish I could come and see you again, but that, I

fear, is impossible. I return home to-night. Will
yon tell me your name ? '

' Esther,' she answered.

"esther what?'

' Esther, Esther, Esther.'

' Well, then, Esther be it,' said I. ' I will
write to you, and you will write to me. If you
like to tell me anything I shall be very pleased,
but don't if you don-'t care to, and don-'t think me
anything too kind. My dear, dear girl, I wish I
could help all my poor sisters and brothers. But
that is, of course, impossible.'

I then explained that I really must be gone,
but she looked so ill that I could not go till, with
the aid of kind Mrs. Martin, I had put her to bed,
and tucked her up warmly before the cheerful fire.
I then kissed her again, and all she said was
thank you,' but at the same time she pointed to
the sky. I understood her, and I do hope that
He is not displeased with me. I had thought of
Him all the time, and the thought of His sacrifice,
so great, so complete, had quelled any little selfish
remonstrances I had made to myself.

Once more commending her to Mrs. Martin's
charge, I entered the cab. I offered the man
something for his trouble but he refused. The
cabman was very surly, and drove so slowly that
it was quite seven before we got home.

I found poor Mr. Bennett waiting patiently
for me, in the hotel secretary's office. He at once
asked me how Esther was. I said she had gone.

VOL. II. D

A BARTERED Honte.

^ Gone ? ' said he, ' gone ? ^

^ Yes, gone,' said I.

I could not explain all to him. I did not want
to let him know her whereabouts for she had
appeared frightened of him, and though he looked
a good man, I did not know whether I ought to
break her confidence.

'' I told him that she had asked me to let her
go, and that she had gone. He asked me if I
knew where she had gone to. I said I could not
tell.

He said, rather impatiently, ' But I must know.'

'^ I was fii-m, and he was pressing.

He said, ^ It is most important. My business
is most important.'

I answered, ^ Yes, sir, but my promise is more
important"'

He did not press me much more, but he seemed
very vexed. I was sorry, as he was a kind man,
but then I had promised to say nothing, and I had
told enough stories already.

'^ At last, when he found out he could get no
information from me, he rose, saying —

' I am very sorry, madam, that you have so
little confidence in me. I assure you I would
rather have paid five thousand pounds than have
lost sight of that lady.'

I said, ' She is in good hands.'

He said, ' I know, I know that you have done
your best, but if you knew the interests at stake,
even her interests, you would not refuse me what
I ask.'

''• I said I could not tell him.

'she then asked me if I would hear the story
and its connection with Esther, and though I was
rather curious I felt so utterly tired and shaken
that I told him I would rather wait. Then, remembering
I had to go to Keswick next morning
to be present at the wedding of one of our old
servant's daughters, which I had promised to
attend, I told him my sisters address, and asked
him to be so kind as to give her the details, which
she would then communicate to me.

He agreed, but as he went he said, ' I believe
you, madam, to be kind and just. You are now
doing an unkindness and an injustice, though you
do not mean it. For the last time. Honour,
riches, and the good name of many, even of her,
are at stake. Will sou answer me — where is
she?'

"Was it obstinacy, or what? I answered, 'I
cannot.'

He departed, refusing any money for his
trouble. He seemed very downcast.

Next day I went to Keswick. In three days
I wrote to Esther, at Mrs. T. Martin's, 18, Burton's
Now, Westminster. I had a line in answer from
Mrs. Martin, saying that Mrs. Esther was getting
on nicely, and sent me her love. I wrote to Sabine
two or three times, but my letters were returned
through the post, in envelopes addressed in a
strange hand, which I since found out to be that
of the bridegroom.

At the end of eight weeks Dorothy had again

written to Mrs. Martin about Esther, and learned
from her that she had been visited by a tall gentleman
during the last week. One of Mrs. Martin's
letters may be of interest. Here is a copy of it : —

18, Burton's Eow,

Westminster, London.

Madam,

I write in answer of yours kindly, of
yesterday asking for information about the lady,
Mrs. Esther, as you left in my charge, kindly paying
five-teen pounds for her lodging, board, firing,
and washing therein included. She has been
much better lately, and very cheerful in her little
ways, never complaining, and being quite the
lady in all things. She got quite strong after a
bit, and used to take walks into the town. Two
days ago she came in, flurried-like and ran upstairs.
Shortly afterwards their came a tall
gentleman, who nocks and acts as if Mrs. Ester
were at home. I asked his name. He said it were
John Bent, I showed him up and left him. Suddenly
he came running down the stair, quicker
nor when he went up. He came again yesterday,
and went up the stair on his toes, and walked into
er room. I had a job for to do in the next
room, hers adjoining, and could not help earing
their talk.

Says he, ' I know yer now, I know yer sister's
game.' She says nothing.

On goes he with, ' So don't talk no more of
revenge on me, but keep quiet, if you would have
me do likewise, for I can talk, knowing all.'

She must have upped and at him, for I heard
him tumbling about the room, and what the
furnitoor would suffer, little could I know. Then
he came running out the room, and I pops my
head on to the landing, and says, sneering like —

' Look ere, Master Bent, don't you come ere
no more.'

But he were off before them words of mine ad
taken effect.

To-day, being the end of the eight weeks, she
packs her trunk, and says she must go. She has
just gone in a '^ ransome and a grey horse, and a
driver who does not know where to stop in his
liquor, as wanted to kiss my Mary Jane, coming
one with the milk, which shows his inference
more nor words of mine can tell.

I'm sorry she's gone, I liked her. She gave
no address, but told me to thank you again and
again. She have a solent way with her sometimes.

'' Not remembering more to say, and John
having come home, as wants his tea,

I remain, with respects,

Yours obediently,

"Rebecca Martin."

When Dorothy received this letter, she at once
sent a copy of it to her sister, but added the full
account of her interview with Esther, not sparing
Hiram, and yet not doing him any injustice. This
letter was returned in the same way as the others.
She endeavoured to get the letter re-transmitted
to Sabine by a circuitous route, by sending it

through a friend, but it came back as before.
During the latter end of March she was away, and
did not return to Keswick till the beginning of
April, when she wrote again. The same result.
At last she gave up writing, with a sad heart. It
was towards the end of April that she received the
letter from Sabine, a copy of which is given above.
She determined to be present at the wedding, todo
her best to make it pass off pleasantly for her
sister. She pitied her, but seeing that her fate
was inevitable, she determined not to embitter,
what she clearly foresaw would be an unhappy
marriage, by unpleasantness on her part, and resolved,
now that Hiram was to become her relation,
to endeavour to find out the good in him, and to
close her eyes to the past, and now that Esther
was lost sight of, to forget the whole story. She
wrote to Sabine —

"Dear Sister,

I will be at your wedding. May you
be very, very happy, and, though married, still
keep a little space in your heart for your truly
affectionate and loving sister.

Dorothy."

Charles's letter she put aside. It was blotted
with tears.

True to her resolution not to revert to a memory
which could only serve to awaken her indignation
at her sisters future husband, she made no allusion
to it in her subsequent letters to Charles. It

is true at the time, she had told him all, but she
did not again refer to it.

It has already been explained how Charles did
not get to know the story. Might it have interested
him? Might it?

WEDDING BELLS.

At about the same time that Herbert arrived at
Sorrento, in search of Milwaukee Bartholomew,
that gentleman was celebrating his nuptials under
the name and designation of the Rev. Bartlemy
Hiram, with Miss Sabine Crosthwaite.

The eventful morning having arrived, the good
people of 3, Grosvenor Gardens, W., were in no
small state of excitement. Sabine had nearly-lost
her head, and was divided between the distraction
of giving the final touches to the breakfast
table, and the excitement of putting on her
bridal robes. The sun shone cheerfully through
the drawing-room windows on the company assembled
there, preparatory to going to church.
There was Mrs. Lipp-Sirva, of garrulous celebrity,
Mrs. Lately-Taylor, of Keswick, Colonel Stoat, of
Winchester, and other ladies and gentlemen. Of
Dorothy's friends there were few ; neither Mr.
Hirdon, the trustee, nor Mr. Hardwick, the family
solicitor, were present. They had excused themselves
on the plea of business. In truth, they
were both too manly to assist at so ludicrous a
wedding.

Dorothy was there in a simple gown, maroon in
colour, which gave offence to Sabine. Said
Sabine —

The idea of putting on maroon at a wedding !
Are not white lace and orange flowers cheap
enough ? ^*

They are cheap enough," answered Dorothy
But white lace don't go with grey hairs, and
orange flowers do not suit spectacles."

Sabine hurled and said nothing. It was obvious
that Dorothy was determined to spoil her wedding.
Indeed during the whole service Sabine
thought more of Dorothy's inharmonious dress
than of the solemn words of the minister.

Of Dorothy's personal friends there were only
two, a Colonel Markham, a brother-in-arms of
her father, and the Rev. John Troutbeck, a
cousin, who had been invited by Sabine on the
express condition that Dorothy should contribute
to the expense of the breakfast.

The marriage was to take place at eleven, the
bridegroom to be in attendance at the church, the
St. Mary Magdalen Chapel, in Dupeher Street.

Dorothy did her best to be of use to her sister
in this trying event. Sabine went about in a fixed,
obstinate, set-teeth way, and was very excited, and
did not receive her sister's attentions with much
amiability.

The conversation in the drawing-room was not
Tery lively. Sabine's friends appeared not to
mix readily with Dorothy's. Colonel Markham,
a tired old soldier, who had fought through the
Indian Mutiny, looked as if he was present at
the execution of an unhappy Sepoy. The Rev.
John Troutbeck kept feeding Sabine's canaries,

till those wretched birds must have fancied
themselves being fattened for the table. Mrs.
Lipp-Sirva and Mrs. Tatelrj- Taylor were exchanging
congratulations on this most happy
occasion. The other ladies were indulging in
the usual vapid drawing-room talk, while a
young man , whose claim to be at the wedding
nobody clearly understood, was composing on the
back of a millinery bill of Sabines a set of verses
on Hymen, in which the words —

Said the sprightly young lover to the queenly Sabine,
Oh ! marry me, darling, and then you'll be mine.

occurred as the refrain.

At last it was time to be off. The carriages
came round, and the people drove off to Dupeher
Street. The Pev. John Troutbeck, with Colonel
Markham, Mrs. Lipp-Sirva, and Mrs. Tatelry-
Taylor, and the other ladies in different carriages.
Sabine was accompanied by Dorothy and Colonel
Stoat. The young man, who had been busy with
the eighteenth and last verse of his poem, did not
manage to secure a seat in any of the carriages.
The unfinished poem was afterwards found pasted
with a wafer to the drawing-room-door ; the young
man was not seen again.

During the drive, which was a long one,
Dorothy put a prayer-book into Sabines hand,
turning down the leaf of a page. It had grieved
her to see Sabine without any book, and that in
the midst of all her preparations she had not
shown that she considered the religious part of
the ceremony in the least. The action was well

meant,, but Colonel Stoat found it ridiculous, and
laughed. Sabine flushed up and tossed the book
on to the bottom of the carriage, with a " Don't
bother, Dorothy'

Dorothy picked the book up. It was a beautifully
bound little book, which she had bought fora
wedding present for her sister. On the fly-leaf
she had written —

To Sabine Hiram, from her loving sister.

It hurt her, this action of her sister ; it seemed
to her a token of the estrangement which was to
arise between her sister and herself. She was not
well ; her head had burned all the morning, but
she had patiently done her best to be cheerful and
amiable to her sister. She said nothing, but put
her hand up to her forehead, and bent her head.
Were they tears ? Was it a prayer ?

At the chapel they found Mr. Hiram, quite
alone. His best man, who was afterwards introduced
to the company as C. Snorker, Esquire, had
not yet come. The reverend gentleman was
dressed in his usual style, and in his black suit,
black tie, and black kid gloves, looked more like
an attendant at a funeral than a happy bridegroom.
His umbrella, which acted a mute Py lades to his
Orestes, was leaning in the porch.

When the company arrived, they found the
happy man standing in the aisle reading a newspaper,
and taking an occasional survey of the empty
pews.

The parson and the clerk were heard talking

in the vestry. The clergyman was expressing his
wish that this job might soon he over, as he had
several funerals to attend to that day.

When Hiram saw his bride and her friends, he
stuffed the newspaper into the pocket of his black
frock coat, and advanced smiling. Colonel Stoat
shook him warmly by the hand, Dorothy bowed,
and Sabine tried to giggle. The rest of the
company were put into their places in the front
seats.

Mr. C. Snorker then appeared ; he had been refreshing
himself at the Belle Alliance Inn, round
the corner of Dupeher Street. He was dressed ina
blue frock-coat, check trousers, patent leather
boots, and lavender tie and gloves.

The parson was ready and looked as if he wished
the people would make haste. The service was
gabbled through hastily. Colonel Stoat gave the
bride away. During the service, when Hiram was
munificently endowing his bride with all his
worldly goods, C. Snorker was heard to suppress
a chuckle. Hiram caught Dorothy's eye and
quailed.

The vestry business was soon got over, with the
usual kisses and congratulations.

Bartlemy entered his name thus :

(Mi) Bartlemy Hiram — 29— Clerk in holy
orders. Son of Herbert Hiram, gentleman."

He began to sign his name "Mi,'^ which he
quickly erased. C. Snorker was the only witness
who noticed it. He nudged Hiram's arm, who
immediately rectified his mistake.

As soon as the register was signed, the clergyman
assumed his funeral service look. The company
returned together to Grosvenor Gardens.
Sabine, Dorothy, Bartlemy and C. Snorker, Esq.,
drove home together. Bartlemy appeared very
happy, Sabine in bliss, Dorothy chatting pleasantly,
and Snorker in high spirits. Bartlemy
kept kissing his bride, and I believe Snorker tried
to do the same to her bridesmaid. Dorothy, at
heart, felt weary and utterly disgusted, but she
hid it sell beneath a kindly mask, and did her
best to please.

The breakfast was not a great success. The talk
was not general Colonel Markham eyed the bridegroom,
who was eating as if he had been starving
for days, with evident disfavour. The ladies, pretending
to peck at things, ate each enough to
nourish a workman family for twenty-four hours.
The speeches were not good. C. Snorker became
excited, and talked in an extraordinarily incoherent
manner. He made a speech, and in the
middle of it, to Dorothy's infinite pain and disgust,
fell under the table. This incident gave the cue
to break up, and the company rose.

Colonel Markham departed at once with his
friend the Rev. John Troutbeck. Some of the
ladies went also. Snorker was carried upstairs,
singing the not thoroughly appropriate Hymen,
Hymenaee of " Waiter, here Pst, Pst.-"

Only Mrs. Lipp-Sirva and Mrs. Lately-Taylor
remained; they had not finished their meal.
Dorothy helped Sabine to change her dress.

Bartlemy went on refreshing himself at the sideboard.
He had been singularly silent all the
morning. His scar had never been so prominent ;
it flowed like a line of dull fire on his sallow
cheek. His eyes glittered with an expression of
appeased avarice and triumph. Not the slightest
vestige of shame appeared to trouble him, no
remorse at what he was doing, no trepidation, no
fear of exposure seemed to occupy his thoughts.
He was happy, as a wild beast is happy. He
exulted, he had gained the day. Money and comfort
were once more in his grasp, and this was
happiness to him. There are on earth and in our
midst, men who are living problems ; men who
appear to personify that terrible principle, perverseness
; men who appear to give in their persons
denial to the creed that they are the creatures of
a Being of Infinite Goodness. They are the
hyenas, the sharks, of the class Homo. They are
horrible to contemplate, but interesting to study.

It had been arranged that the newly-married
couple should take a trip to Paris before settling
in London, and they departed for the Continent
that day. The house was left in charge of Mrs.
Lipp-Sirva. Dorothy went back to Keswick in a
state of dreary misery. She had seen a wretched
farce played out, a farce without humour, a farce
in which her dearly beloved sister acted the dupe
to the Scapin of a miserable, common, vulgar
man. She had tried to persuade herself that all
might go well ; she had tried to believe Sabine
could be happy, but the whole ceremony, its

marked incidents, the coldness of lier friends
Markham and Trontbeck, in whose good sense she
had unbounded confidence, and finally the disgusting
behaviour of her brother-in-law's friend,
had opened her eyes completely. She could foresee
nothing but shame and misery for her sister. Was
not that enough to trouble her ? And then there
was Charles her dear boy. What was he doing ?
Why did he not write ? Why had he not written
lately ? Why had he never written to revoke his
unkind expressions towards her ? Why was all
so unhappy ?

She kept up well enough till she got home again.
She was able to go about her little affairs for a day
or two. She tried to fall back into her old life,
but the figure of her brother-in-law haunted her.
She could not sleep ; she had no comfort.

It was Sabine's bridal night. They were staying
at Clarendon Hotel, Dover. She was alone in her
chamber, preparing for rest. A candle was burning
low in its socket, shedding a fitful light about the
room ; the fire burning low. She heard a step in
the passage. Was it the bridegroom ?

Suddenly a mighty gust of wind, blown from the
embanking sea-mist landwards, blew the casement
open with a crash, extinguished the light, and went
howling through the long corridors of the hotel.
Sabine jumped to her feet with a startled cry.
Another cry, louder than the first ; for, turning to
the opened window, she saw standing there in the

light of the cloud-veiled moon, a tall figure pointing
seawards. It was the figure of a woman dressed
in a black mantle, with a cape drawn over her
head. Paralyzed with horror Sabine moved
neither hand nor foot. The figure turned, and the
moon, bursting through the black clouds, revealed
her face. It was the grinning face of a death's
head. Sabine fell, with a shriek that rang through
the house, to the ground.

It was thus that the bridegroom found his bride.
This was Sabine's bridal night, and never since
that night could she be brought to believe that
the vision was only engendered by an excited
imagination. She believed firmly that she had
seen in actual reality a tall dark figure, robed in
black, with the grinning face of a death's head
mask pointing seawards, in her bridal chamber, on
the vesper of her bridal night. Was it an omen '?
Was it a dream ?

THE TWO Sisters.

Two days after her arrival at Keswick Dorothy
received this note from her sister, announcing
their safe arrival at Paris : —

Hotel Continental, Paris.

"My Dear Dorothy,

'* We have arrived here safely. Paris is
a beautiful town. Bartlemy is a dear pet, and I
am quite happy.

By the bye, could you lend me £50 ? I have
spent all my ready money, and have no more till
next quarter day. My husband's tenants in the
Scilly Islands, where his property lies, have not
paid their rents, and he is wisely unwilling to sell
out any of his bank stock, so that he, too, is unprovided
with money. I did not know of this
before we left London, or I would have arranged
against it. I thought he would be sure to be
provided with the necessary funds, but I am not
angry with him, as he is acting wisely in not
selling out, and if his tenants won't pay, they
won't.

Your affectionate sister,

Sabine Hiram.'^

Now it so happened that when Dorothy received

VOL. II. E

this letter she was not only seriously indisposed,
but owing to the expenses incidental to her sister's
wedding, her journey to London, the hotel bill
there, and especially owing to unexpected claims
that had been made on her bounty about that
time, she was not prepared with £50.

One thousand pounds a year may seem a good
sum as an income, but when there are many people
pulling at the purse it does not go a long way.
Besides, Dorothy was not what one might call a
thorough business woman even in her own personal
expenses. Not that she was extravagant.
Oh, no ! she was far too good a steward of her
father's bounty to be that, but she had been so
long kept without much money of her own that
when, after her father's death, she entered upon
an independent income, she did not quite understand
how to manage it.

She was very sorry to have to refuse Sabine,
but she did, as this note will show : —

'' Laburnum Cottage, Keswick.

"My Dearest Sabine,

I am so sorry to have to say, that until
the Len. W. dividends come in, I have no money to
spare. I have been rather extravagant lately, I
am afraid. I have had a good scolding from one
or two friends about it. As it is, I cannot send
you the £50. Your husband had better sell out
for a little ready money, and when his rents come
in he can re-invest. I am so glad to hear you are
happy in your new estate, and most sincerely hope
you will continue so.

I myself have not been at all well lately ; bad
headaches and giddiness. Doctor says I ought to
go out more, but I get very tired when I do.

'' I hope to hear from you soon, that you may
have got over you' difficulty, and are still enjoying
your trip.

Give my compliments to your husband, and
with much love to yourself, believe me, dear Sabine,
your very affectionate sister,

'* Dorothy Crosthwaite."

(When Dorothy wrote this letter she had just
£7 in her pocket, two of which were promised to
a poor old woman at Lowness, whose son had
been drowned in Lake Windermere in a boating
accident.)

Sabine wrote back by return of post : —

Hotel Continental, Paris.
'miss Dorothy,

I don't think you are acting either
kindly or sisterly to me to refuse me the money.
When you were helping a London slut I lent you
£50, and you might do the same. However, I
shan't ask you again, and as my time is fully
taken up with my husband you had better stop
writing. I am sorry you are ill. You have brought
it on yourself by carelessness.

Mrs. Sabine Hiram."

This was the finishing stroke. Dorothy was
sitting in her cheerful little parlour when she
received this letter. She had felt better all day.
There had been bright sunshine all the morning,

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

and lie had tal^en a little walk by the lake-side.
The cheering effects of the exercise and of the
warm sunshine had warmed her heart a little and
done her spirits and body good, and she felt more
like her old self again when she came in. That
day happened to be the anniversary of the
General's death, and was quite a holyday to
Dorothy. It was this day, that she devoted her
thoughts especially to the sturdy old father who
had brought her up strongly and steadfastly. On
this day it was her wont to read his letters, laying
before her on the table a lock of grey hair which
she cut from the dear head when its eyes had
closed that sad afternoon so few years ago for
an eternal sleep. By the side of the grey hair
she laid her father's sword, propping a portrait
of him against the butt, and by its side his gold
watch. Thus, with all the relics of the dear dead
about here she communed with her thoughts, remembering
all the happy times she had had at
home-with her manly old father, dwelling with
affection on the remembrance of the many times
when, for all his apparent severity, he had
stooped to caress *this little woman ^^ and forgetting
all his harshness.

The thought of her father and of her happy
home naturally brought Dorothy's thoughts to her
sister, and to the dear brothers lying far from
each other in foreign graves, and the pleasant
times, now so long ago, they had had together.
Then she began to laugh at herself for having
harboured any triste presentiments, and was

persuading herself that all would go well, and
that Sabine in her happiness would forget old
grievances and be a dear sister to her once more,
when the letter came. Dorothy read it. It was
too much. Sadly she gathered up the relics of her
father, laid them in their places, and then she
went to bed. Dorothy was very ill.

WHAT A WORLD OF HAPPINESS THEIR HARMONY
FORETELLS !

It did not take very long to open Sabine's eyes to
the real character and position of her husband.

Mr. Hiram acted the part of the impassioned
lover with tolerable accuracy, though every now
and then he would burst out laughing in the midst
of some touching scene, as if he were acting in a
farce and was so amused that he could not contain
himself.

It was only during the second week of their
honeymoon, that the first storm broke out. They
were sitting at breakfast in their sitting-room in
the Hotel Continental, discussing their plans for
the day's amusement. This naturally brought
them on to the topic of the expenses thereof, and
it was then that Sabine remarked —

'bertie, dear, when will you receive your remittances
? You know we want money, and mine
has quite run out, and now that nasty Dorothy
won't lend me any, I have none to go on with till
next quarter day."

Bartlemy said, ^' You must sell out, dear ; you
must sell out. Money must be had."

But can't you do so ? " said Sabine. " You
know you can re-invest when your rents come in."

Bartlemy burst into a loud guffaw and nearly

choked himself with his coffee. When he had
recovered he said —

*' No-o, Sabine, I cannot."

"Why not?"

Because ^' —

Because what ? "

Because rum-diddle-diddle-dee fol-lol-la."

"Neither rum-diddle-diddle-dee nor fol-lol-la
will supply us with means to pay our bill here, or
to take us our carriage drives.

Bartleray said nothing, but lit a Manilla.

Sabine was vexed at his treating the matter so
lightly, so she said rather snappishly —

I don't think that is the way to treat me, and
I don't think you ought to smoke those nasty
cigars in my room."

These are not cigars, my pet."

What then ? "

Manillass, my cherub of cherubim."

Well, Manillass, then. I won't have such ways
in my room."

Your room, Sabine, your room ? "

Yes, my room, my room."

My room, dearest, the husband's room, what
is mine is thine, and thine, angel, is mine, don't
yer know ? "

But Sabine was thoroughly vexed. She began
to fear that Hiram had only married her for her
money, and that he had nothing of his own. Ever
since his wedding day (to buy the ring, for which
occasion he had borrowed £10 of her), he had
never ceased to plague her for money. Often, too,

he had gone out, leaving her alone all the evening,
to return late at night. Now Sabine was both
avaricious and exacting, and therefore Hiram was
just acting in the very way to get into her black
books.

He did not seem to care, though, for, sitting in
true American style, with his chair tilted up and
his feet on the marble mantel-piece, he continued
to smoke quietly, blowing huge clouds of smoke
between himself and his wife.

Now be it that the pungent vapour of the
Manilla irritated Sabine's mucous membrane, orbe
it that some wandering fly, sent by a god inimical
to Hymen, alighted on that lady's nose to
study the art of engraving on copper, but certain
it is that Sabine sneezed once, twice, and both
times violently. The violent motion of her head
in the process of sternutation, dislodged the row
of false curls, arranged as what is commonly called
a front, and these fell on her lap. There was not
much more wanted to complete her irritation, but
Bartlemy laughed, that was more than enough.
Sabine rose to her feet in a state of incomprehensible
anger, and holding the false curls in her
hand, stamped her foot violently on the floor, and
burst into a torrent of spiteful reproach.

"You horrid, vulgar man! What ha^^e you got
to laugh at ? Your own wedded wife, too ! With
your legs on the mantel-piece at the Hotel Continental
— aren't you ashamed of yourself? And
what if I do wear false curls ? I paid for them,
I suppose ? When is your money coming? Anything

is better than red hair — mine is tightly tied
up, and not one penny shall you have to spend on
sherry-cobblers. Manillass, too, in my drawing-room
— you suck through a straw, faugh ! And
nicely your friend Snorker behaved, too, at the wedding.
Staying out all last night — drunk as a lord —
and you a clergyman of the Church of England.
Why didn't T listen to my friends. What is to become
of us if we begin quarrelling now ? Oh ! I am
so disgusted — Fll go home — I won't stay here, to
have you smoke in my room. Your tenants, too
disrespectful men they are. When I write to
jour farmer, Mr. Sharp, to the address you gave
in the Scilly Islands, to ask for your rents, what
does he do ? He insults your wife, your lawful
wedded wife ; and sends back my letter with ' not
known ' written on the envelope ; and you sit
there, with your legs on the mantel-piece. ''

With these, and many similar reproaches and
peevish threats, did Sabine revile her lord and
master, but finding that she only seemed to amuse
him, she rushed out of the room, banging the door
violently after her.

Hiram looked round, and spitting a quantity of
tobacco juice after her as she closed the door,
got up.

'' Whew ! " said he, " Is this the way she is
going to go on ? This won't do. If I have run
all this risk, and had all this bother, and faked my
cards, to turn up a black deuce in the end, I'm a
bigger fool than I thought I was. Esther was
better than she. Esther, at les-st, was young and

pretty ; but that old cow ! If she had not got
her money tied up sheM be a dear bargain, but as
it is, deuced if I don't think I'm sold. Still, a
thousand a year certain, five thousand dollars, are
comfortable enough. But I haven't patience. I
shall lob her by-and-bye, if she goes on this suit
and then all will be U P. I must act otherwise.
And, beware Mrs. Hiram the Third, lest you
get into an evil plight. I am not the man to
scruple or hesitate — but where is that letter from
Snorker ? "

Bartlemy got up, and after rummaging in his
writing-case found a letter addressed to the Ev.
Bartlemy Hiram. He opened it and re-read it. It
was short and enigmatical.

'dear Mil.

If cash tight, or old girl capricious.
'' Peckham Lodge. Twig ?
C. S.^'

I hope it may not come to that's said Bartlemy^
as he put the letter back into its envelope. " I
hardly like that job. Curse Snorker ; am I not
bad enough without his devilish suggestions? No,
no, it must not come to that. I've played a successful
game so far, but after the Lord Mayors
show comes the dung cart, and trumps may fail.
I must go on as I have done, and try to get what
I want. If she is still skittish, well — then will be
time to think of Peckham Lodge. And now for
my little Palais Eoyal girl."

That evening, after dinner, Sabine made friends

again with her husband, and gave him some money.
He immediately took his hat, and was going to
leave the room, when she asked him to stay ; she
had something so nice to tell him.

*what is it ? " said Bartlemy, impatiently. " I
want to be off."

'' Where to ? "

To the Young Men's Christian Association."

There was a notorious cafe on the boulevards,
which Bartlemy frequented at nights, which he
pleasantly styled the Young Men's Christian
Association, whenever his wife asked him where
he had been.

^o, stay," said Sabine, " a gentleman is
coming to see you."

Who is he ? What does he want ? "

He is the Eev. John Middleton, chaplain of the
English chapel, in the Rue des Capucines. I met
him at table devote. He is called away to England
suddenly for a week: and has to provide for the services
in his absence. I told him that my husband
was a clergyman of the Church of England, and I
said I thought you would only be too glad to oblige
him."

You did, did you? " growled Bartlemy.

"Yes, dear, you remember complaining, only
yesterday, that you had no work to do, no lambs
to attend to. Don't you remember ? It was just
before you borrowed that fifty francs of me. So
when I heard him talking about this difficulty,
I at once thought what a nice thing for
you."

And you say that this fellow is coming today?"


Yes , dear, directly."

Bartlemy appeared very much at a loss what todo,
or what to say. He stood in the middle of
the room, twisting his broad wide-awake hat,
and casting ferocious glances at his wife. He
had never appeared more repulsively ugly than
-fchen.

I won't see him," he said at last. " I won't
be taken in again. If it is known that there is a
soft clergyman here in Paris, I shall have every
lazy chaplain who wants to get off work running
after me to take his duty. Clergymen are not so
very zealous when they can get others to do their
work. I certainly won't give in this time. Now,
listen, Sabine. I don't want you to advertise meat
every corner. I don't want to be talked about,
and referred about ; I am not strong, and I cannot
overwork myself. I don't want to do this work.
I should not be doing a kindness to the man if I
did undertake it. I should only be encouraging
him in sloth, and sloth is a bad quality in a
clergyman. We all have our work, and we must
do it — I at St. Olphage's, Wykeh am Within, and
he, at his chapel, in the Rue des Capucines. I
suppose he would offer to pay me. I do not make
the golden key the bar, but I feel strongly that
the hireling fleet, and that the good shepherd
ought to know his sheep, and not leave them to goto
England for a week. You may refer him on
this subject to the Axe of the Apostles, or St.

Jacob's gospel. I do not know where the passage
occurs at this moment. It is in one of those two''

Bartlemy was then going to take his departure,
when a knock at the door announced that the Rev.
John Middleton had come.

This gentleman, introducing himself with much
suavity, asked if he had the pleasure of addressing
the Rev. Hiram.

You have," said Bartlemy, abruptly preparing
to leave the room.

The Rev. John Middleton, to judge from his appearance,
was one of those sleek self-satisfied
parsons who fancy that the fact of their being
inter the wing of the Church elevates them above
the rest of men, and frees them to a certain degree
from the conventionalities and etiquette of society.
This gentleman carried a "Clergy List" in his
hand. He had it open at the letter H. Turning to
Sabine he said —

My dear madam, I have come to apologise. I
see that your husband's name does not" —

Whoever gave you leave to enter my room ? "
burst out Bartlemy.

I am addressing your wife, sir," said the Rev.
Middleton, with a touch of mild reproach. " I am
addressing " —

I don't want you to address anybody."

Your dear wife, who kindly suggested that you
would undertake to perform my duty during my
absence to England''

My dear wife had not the slightest right to
promise anything of the kind."

Oh ! Bartie," said Sabine.

Oh Bartie, or Bartie Oh ! I won't do anything
of the kind. I won't encourage absentees. I will
not be the hireling of any faithless shepherd, who
wishes to go to England for a week."

I do not now wish it," said Mr. Middleton.
I have come to tell the lady that I have found a
substitute. I should have been very much obliged
to you, had you acted for me, but as my chapel is
strictly Church of England, and as your name does
not"—

Bartlemy rushed out of the room.

'* Appear in the ' Clergy List,' " continued Mr.
Middleton, blandly, " I had to look for another."

Not appear in the ' Clergy List ? ' " was the
astonished question of Sabine. '' What do you
mean ? "

The Eev. Middleton answered by placing the
book in her hands.

True, the name of Hiram appeared nowhere,
and turning to the part where the livings are
alphabetically arranged, and looking under
Wykeham Within Sabine found the following
entry : —

Wykeham-Within, Kent : Rev. John Marston,
Mea., vicar; Rev. Upland Stylites, curate."

Is your husband not of our persuasion ? '^
asked Mr. Middleton.

Yes, yes," said Sabine hurriedly. " Yes ;
there is some mistake. He is curate of St. Olphage's

at Wykeham Within, or at least was two months
ago."

No, no, madame' said the Rev. John Middleton
; " an error, an error. I am the incumbent of
the adjoining parish of Wjkeham-in-the-Bath,
and I know both the Rev. Marston and the Rev. U.
Stvlites."

"How long? " asked Sabine faintly.

Several years ; yes, I may say several years."

Are there not perhaps two curates ? ^' put in
Sabine in desperation.

'' Madam, not much of glebe, of corn and oil is
enjoyed by the vicar. This parish is poor, very
poor, and can hardly maintain one minister, let
alone three."

"Is there no other church near ? no chapel? I
am positive that there is Bartlemy's cure""

"I have not heard of any ecclesiastical institution
in the parish of Wykeham-Within rejoicing
in the denomination of Bartlemy's cure," answered
Mr. Middleton. "There is a chapel there not
officiated over by either of the gentlemen I have
named."

"What is it?^'

"A very noisome nest of Dissent. A kind of
American Shakers, or something equally awfully
awful."

Who is the presiding minister ? "

I do not know his name. I have never seen
him. sphere ignorance is bliss, you know."

Thank you, sir."

'pas de quoi, madame."

With this Mr. Middleton departed, leaving
Sabine in no very comfortable state of mind.
Could this be true? Had she married an impostor?
Was she wedded to anything so awful asa
heretic? Poor Sabine felt that her immortal
soul was in danger.

There are some things which we will not believe
even after we have received the clearest proofs of
their truth. Sabine could not bring herself to
believe that she had been duped by her own
Bartie. That was impossible* The editor of that
particular ^' Clergy List " was a stupid man, and
poor Bartie had been forgotten. Still it was with
no very easy heart that she went to bed that
night. She could not get to sleep. Why was her
husband so late ? Was he beginning already to
desert her in the second week of their marriage ?
Why does the candle go out just as she is in this
unpleasant state of mind? and why will her
thoughts keep reverting to that awful night— her
bridal night at Dover? What did all this mean ?
Had she done wrong in marrying this man — who
really seemed so good, so pure, so holy ? If not,
why were her dreams so unhappy, and what was
the meaning of those anxious moments she felt
occasionally? She was superstitious, she knew,
but had she not had to do with facts and intensely
unpleasant facts ? For, for all that Bartlemy had
urged to the contrary, she was positively certain
that on the first night of her marriage she had
seen in her room at the — . What ? No ! It

was a night like this. The wind was sighing
lugubriously in the trees of the Tuileries, and
their rustling was not unlike the sound she had
heard that tearful night of the waves lapping the
shingly beach. Would that fearful figure appear
again ?

Sabine sat up in her bed with straining eyes
and ears. All was quiet, save when some late
cab rattled along the pavement. The night was
wet and dark.

Sabine lay down again.

Why did he not come home ? Was he angry
with her ? Had her cruel words of the morning
hurt him so much that he had left her ? Had she
driven him to suicide, and would she find him on
the morrow lying stiff and stark on one of the
tables of the Morgue ?

Poor Sabine ! could she only have seen her
lord and master then, sitting in the Cafe — , on
the Boulevard des Italiens, surrounded by Hebe of
every beauty and charm !

Bartlemy did not return home till early next
morning, and went to sleep on the sofa in their
sitting-room.

Sabine found him, when she got up, still asleep,
lying fully dressed on the sofa, with his dripping
umbrella still up over his head, his muddy boots on
the silk cushion, and a bill for a champagne supper
en cabinet particulier sticking in the button-hole of
his overcoat.

This sight, coupled with the reminiscences of

VOL. II. F

other sights and general neglect, together with her
awakened suspicions about his character, led
Sabine to rouse him roughly, and then and thereto
tax him with his deceit.

The reveille of a night of debauch is not exactly
the most fitting time to attack people on their lack
of moral qualifications, and with a perverse and uncouth
man like Hiram perhaps the worst time she
could have chosen.

It would be too painful to the reader to relate
verbatim what passed between the couple.
Bartlemy was sullen and rude, and did not care to
deny anything to the abusive and hysterical
Sabine. They exchanged vituperations for sometime,
Sabine asserting that she had been woefully
duped, that she never dreamt of marrying an
American Skater (Shaker), and afl&rraing that
she would very much like to see Bartlemy's funds.
Her money was her own, and she meant to keep
it ; she was not going to keep a big man in sloth.
Why did he call himself reverend if he was not
;S0 ? He reverend, with his muddy boots on the
silk cushions. How would he pay for them now
they were spoilt ? She knew that she wouldn't.
Why did he not go back to his skaters ? She
would have a separation — and so on.

Bartlemy did not answer much during this tirade,
and, with the exception of an occasional interpel-hated
*■' Go on," kept remarkably quiet. As soon as
she had finished, however, and was standing waiting
for sufficient breath to carry on the attack, he
rose clumsily from the sofa, and staggered towards

her, caught her by the arm, and said in a voice
hoarse with subdued passion, and in a tone of
violent menace that made Sabine shake with
fear —

"Look here, Mrs. Hiram, you have said enough.
Don't say any more, I have the word now. You
married me. I suppose you knew what you were
doing. You can't plead the giddiness of youth,
any way. Anyhow, I am your husband, and as
such 1 have power over you. It depends on you
whether I use this power or not to your discomfort.
It does not matter now what I was before I married
you. It does not matter a straw whether I told
you a lie or not about my means and my profession.
You force me to this confession. It does
not pain me — it will pain you. I am not a clergyman
of your Church ; I have officiated in a Shaker
ChapeL I have no means whatever. I have
nothing but my clothes and about eighteen francs.
Yes, you wanted this, and you shall have it.
Further, I married you because j'ou have money,
and my position was desperate. You shall not be
spared a single detail. You have taxed me with a
lie, I will give you the truth. I repeat, I married
you for your money, and I mean to have the enjoyment
of this money. What else did I marry you
for ? Come, do 3'ou think you attracted me —
charmed me ? I have yet to discover the piquancy
of wrinkles and grey hair. Now listen, I will
come to a bargain with you. You are my wife,
the wife, be it, of a penniless impostor. These
are your own words. Nothing can undo that;

you are bound to me for life. I can force you to
be with me always, day and night. Therefore it
is your advantage to be on good terms with me.
Let me have money, and keep quiet. We can
settle down somewhere in England and have a
comfortable life on your thousand a year. Defy
me at your peril."

Stung to the quick in her pride, her avarice, her
formal religion, maddened with shame and anger,
the blood rushed to the unhappy woman's head ina
red-hot torrent as she listened to the cold, shameless
words addressed to her by a man with whom,
by her own act and by her own free will, she was
destined to pass the rest of her life.

Before he had half finished his speech Sabine
fell heavily to the floor. She had fainted.

It is not with these two that my story has principally
to deal, and it is with pleasure that I dismiss
them for a time from its pages. A few short
words concluding this chapter will suffice.

Sabine's fainting fit was followed by a violent
attack of brain fever which kept her to her bed in
the Hotel Continental for many weeks. Her
husband was most attentive to her and appeared
unable to leave her bedside, or to give her into
the sole charge of a nurse. He absolutely refused
to allow either a French or an English nurse to
attend to her, but secured the services of an old
Greek woman, "who could not understand her
nonsense."

Sabine never thoroughly recovered the effects
of this illness. When she got better she seemed

to have settled into a state of morbid hjpoclion-
arianism and moodiness.

As soon as she was well enough to be moved
her husband took her to England and hiring a
small cottage on the Devonshire coast, installed
her there. He did not trouble her much with his
company, but was continually going away to
London. Sabine still kept a rigid hand over her
cash-box and Hiram had great difficulty in getting
money from her. On such occasions, after
violently disputing with his wife, he would refer
in private to a dirty and worn letter which he
carried about with him, the perusal of which
seemed to put him in a state of doubt and hesitation.


Now back, as fast as thought can carry us, to
the glorious South.

AMBITION AND LOVE.

The Baroness de Bienaimee was a lover of all true
manliness and of chivalrous deeds, and was so
pleased with the account that the Chevalier de
la Yigne had given of Charles's behaviour on the
night of their return from the Toledo Lacrymal
Christi depot, that she gave him to understand
that he was always welcome at the Yilla Dresda,
so that Charles went as often as he could manage
to do so, consistent with his idea of conventionality.


Herbert, who was financially independent, was
so pleased with Italy and enjoyed the society of
Charles and bis new friends, the Mertonss, so
much, that he determined to stay on at Sorrento
indefinitely as to time. He had also, through the
introduction of Charles, the entry to the Yilla
Dresda, but, to tell the truth, he preferred the
society of the Mertonss. It had not taken long
before he had learnt to admire the gentle beauty
and amiability of Mildred. The warm South soon
fans admiration into the flame of love, and scarcely
a month had passed before Herbert began to feel
that life without Mildred was not what life should
be.

But Mildred was not ready to return his love,
even had she known it. She was but a child, and

Laving known sorrow and bereavement, in which
she had been comforted by the society of her kind
and amiable brother, she clung to him with a
grateful love and could never think of leaving
him.

There existed, however, a very friendly feeling
between the three Americans, and Herbert was
nearly always in the society of John Merton. At
first their conversation had chiefly turned on the
curious mistake that had brought their acquaintance
about, and from Herbert John had learnt
the whole story, and shared in his indignation,
and sympathised with him in his sorrow. Their
first meeting was often the subject of much pleasantry
between the two young men, who never
could decide who got the best of the physical
encounter, each yielding the other the palm.

Even gentle Mildred learnt to laugh at the story
retold, though she alarmed, that even now that Dr.
Toogood's villany was exposed, she could not quite
banish the affectionate remembrance she had of
him, whom she had always looked upon as a benefactor,
and who, bad though his motives might
have been, had been the means of bringing her
once more into the arms of her dear old mother.

Although Charles had now the opportunity of
seeing Euphrosyne every day, and thus an excellent
chance of pushing his suit he did not progress
very well.

Euphrosyne seemed to him to be interested in
him out of sympathy with his literary tastes and
knowledge, but that was all.

The Duke di Caserta did not often visit the
Yilla Dresda. He once told Charles the reason.
He was paying his addresses to the daughter of a
nobleman who lived at Florence, and frequently
left Naples for that purpose.

Euphrosyne was very sad at this. She did so
want to have him near her, to see him, to hear
him laugh, to listen to his words, to hang on his
sturdy arm.

It was one glorious evening, the sun had set in
all its splendour behind the purple islands, and
Charles was sitting with the two girls, Bianca and
Euphrosyne, on the seaward terrace of the Villa
Dresda.

They had asked him to read to them ; he had
been reading a French translation of Goethe, and
they were talking about what he had read.

"How true are those lines," said Euphrosyne,
"of Goethe's, that ambition cannot go hand in
hand with love, and that ambition outsides its
gentler companion. Is it not so, Signor Carlo ? "

'* Signorina," answered Charles, blushing, ''I
do not know. I did not like the lines myself. I
can fancy no greater happiness for a man than to
fight his way through the world side by side with
a woman he loves, to share his trouble with her,
and to share his glory and success when the
struggle is over."

'^ Oh, yes," said Bianca, impetuously, with a
light coming into her flashing eyes, " I think so,
too. How happy that woman must be. Happier
than the Spartan mother who gave her son his

shield. She stayed at home while her son was on
the battle-field, but in the struggle with the world
the wife stands at the warrior's right hand, and
shares with him she loves the brunt of the battle,
encourages him, allures him on to greater bravery,
and sweetens with her company the pleasure of
the victory."

No," said Euphrosyne. " No, I do not think
I should be happy thus. Is not a woman's love
the ultimate of man's happiness? Do not men
say so? Then why should a man possessing this
strive for worldly success ? An ambitious man
would make me unhappy. He would first tell me
that I was all in all to him, and then he would set
about to gain a further happiness. No, to rest
for ever with him — that were my happiness."

"Not mine," said Bianca, with impetuosity.
*' Not mine. I could not love a slothful man, a
lotus-eater. We have no longer mailed knights
to do valiant deeds to prove their love for us, but
men can still prove that they think no sacrifice,
no labour too great to be made for us, not on the
tourney field, be it, but in the harder arena of
life."

Charles, who had listened with great attention
to what the two girls had said, turned his eyes on
them.

Bianca was standing with some of the enthusiasm
of her words expressed in her whole form.
Euphrosyne was sitting at her feet in an attitude
of devotional repose. She was thinking of Arnolfo.
Bianca was dreaming of the man who would invite

her some day to stand by his side and fight the
battle of the world with him.

Euphrosyne was dreaming of the happiness of
a life of eternal rest ; a life void of struggle and
movement ; a life full of poetry, music, sunlight
and flowers, of life, of love, love given, love returned
in fullest measure.

Bianca spoke next ; turning to Charles —

And yon, Signer Carlo ? You are a man.
What will your life be ? Have you a fight to fight,
or are you going to rest ? ^'

She fixed a curious glance on him, and with fire
Lighting in her eyes awaited his answer'.

'' Rest ? " cried Charles, rising to his feet and
throwing out his arms. "Rest? No, lady, if ever
man had work to do it is I. Rest ! while a shame
cankers my innermost soul. Rest ! while I walk
a pariah among lesser men. Rest ! while I grind
my teeth at an unmerited reproach. Rest? No
lady, there is no rest to me. If I had the eternal
force, the restless activity of those blue waves, I
might still despair of doing what I have to do.
For me there will be no rest till it is done, or the
Fates achieve their injustice, and I am lain where
I can work no mores

Bianca never took her eyes ofi" him while he was
speaking. Euphrosyne, too, startled by the intense
energy and passion expressed in his voice, was
listening intently.

Charles continued —

I have to smite the world on the cheek and

say, 'Thou bast lied.' I have to raise myself
from the shade and make myself prominent
among men. I have to climb a hill, barred at
each step of my rugged path by falsehood, by
envy, by contempt, by prejudice. I have to
fight against all the world; I have a bitterer
fight to fight against myself. For," continued
he, turning to Euphrosyne, in a tone full of
love and admiration, ^' there are times when
I think as you do, Signorina; times when
all seems to invite to repose; times when allis
so beautiful that it seems folly to think of the
foolish world ; times when the struggle with such
an opponent seems unworthy ; times when love of
one beautiful, pure angel seems enough. Then it
is that I have to fight against myself'

Why ! " said Euphrosyne ; " would you not be
happy thus ? "

"No, Signorina, the woman who marries me
must not be wedded to a living reproach. There
are things in this vroiid which nothing can undo.
A murderer may expiate his crime, a renegade recant
his heresy, but from the shame of the sins of
our fathers there is no deliverance. But there
shall be a deliverance. And it is to do what even
I, who hope to do it, just called impossible, that I
can take no rest."

The two girls looked at each other in silence.
There was a pause ; all were busy with their
thoughts.

Charles broke the silence by saying —

Excuse me, ladies, if I have talked too loudly
things which cannot interest you. Iliey interest
me too much, I know, not to appear selfish. They
are of me, my being''

• With this he bade them good-bye. Euphrosyne
kept his hand in hers some time, then she
-said —

Do not be unhappy; Carlo ; is not the world
too beautiful ? The world of God, not the world
of men. Men have always been cruel, at least
some. You will tell me some day what your grief
is, will you not? "

Charles bent over her little hand and kissed it.
He then gave his hand to Bianca. She turned
away and released it without a pressure.

He then went, but before he had reached the
gate he heard a nimble step behind him. It was
Bianca. Her cheek was flushed, her whole face
excited, and her eyes were flashing wildly.

"I did not bid you a good good-night just now,"
she said hurriedly. '' I have come to say it now.
I was thinking."

You are very good," said Charles.

*' I was thinking that to you nothing should be
impossible. I am as excited as you were. I never
heard a man talk as you did. Eemember, to the
brave nothing is impossible. I do not know your
sorrow, but I saw you wince when you were
speaking, and I know it must be great. You
will fight well, will you not ? and now a better
good-night."

Charles raised her hand to his lips and bowed.
He went on his way, but looking back he saw her
white form standing in the midst of the gleaming
foliage, her hand raised aloft as if motioning him
forward, forward !

A FEW days after Charles' conversation on the
stirring questions of ambition and love, he received
a visit at the Grande Sentinelle from his friend
the Chevalier de la Vigne, who had moved from
the Villa Castiglione to the luxurious Hotel
Tramontano at Sorrento.

When Charles asked him the reason of his leaving
his comfortable quarters at Pausilipo, the little
Chevalier burst out into a storm of reproach against
the unhappy Castiglione.

'' A most unheard-of outrage," said he. " Five*
nights ago, while I was peacefully sitting in my
room I heard a knock at the door, and the secretary
of the villa made his appearance. He had
the barefaced audacity to ask me if I had any
objection to leave the house at once, adding that
it did not matter whether I paid my bill or not
immediately, adding with the most consummate
insolence that it might not be convenient to me todo
so. I asked if he had perhaps not been dining
too heavily. He is of the Israelite persuasion,
and no morsel had passed his lips, so help him
Moses. I then asked him what he meant by
telling me to go, adding that I had no intention
of leaving ; and, as to my solvency, referring him
to Messrs. Alter and Che. He said he felt sorry,

it was not a question of personality, but Sign ore
Castiglione, who had been a long time in treaty
with three Russian princes with a view to letting
his villa for three months, had that evening received
a telegram closing the bargain, and all
jpensionnaires had been asked to go. I said,
^ Damn the three Russian princes, I am comfortable
here, and, with the exception of certain eccentricities
of certain of the ladies who dine at the
table cPhote, very well contented with the arrangements.'
But it appeared that I could not stay,
and so I left that night. It does not speak well
for the discrimination of M. Castiglione to prefer
three shoddy Russians to a de la Vigne. To
punish him I wrote to the editor of the
Pungolo, on the ' Insolence of Italian Hotel-keepers,'
but that ruffian had the courage to tell
me that he could not insert my letter unless I paid
for it as an advertisement, by postage stamps or
post-ofl&ce order. If that is the way they behave
under a monarchy, I shall certainly lend my
support to the Italia Irritant party."

'' WeU," said Charles, " there is one comfort,
you are now near Mademoiselle de Bienaimee.-"

"A great comfort that is,^' answered the
Chevalier with a doleful tone. " In spite of my
most elegant toilets and the services of transcendant
hairdresser from Naples I make no progress
with the lady. She seems a marble statue ; and I
did not come here to investigate art. I am
seriously thinking of going back to Paris and
taking up my liaison with la Catalans of the Hippodrome,

though she costs me awful sums, especially
in paying the managerial fines for her."

This was good news to Charles, who, however,
did not dare to encourage the Frenchman in his
proposal for fear of betraying himself.

But come," added the Chevalier, " I have an
invitation for you. We are to lunch at the Villa
Dresda, and I am really going to do my best to-day
to ingratiate myself with Euphrosyne. My uncle
will be so angry if I return to Paris with nothing
but a few cakes of Naples soap, very nice soap by
the way, after all this most Quixotic adventure of
mine. Now be a good fellow and help me in this
matter."

How can I? '^ said Charles, with an unintentional
double entendre.

When you think I have made an impression,
just nudge me ; it will give me courage to go on.
We must manage to sit next to each other. And
look here at this paper. I have arranged some
little jeiix d' esprit to bring in, in a quiet way, into
the conversation. You see I have written them out.
There is one from Moliere, one I heard at the
Palais-royal theatre, a few from Brilliant-Savarin,
and one, by myself, quite original. It took me eight
days to perfect, and when I told it to Catalan i she
said she only hoped she would not remember it at
the Hippodrome that night, or she would surely
fall off her saddle. She added, though I confess I
don't see the point of it, that the boite was close
enough already."

Equipped with all these weapons of love did the

natty little Chevalier set forth to the Villa Dresda,
accompanied bj Charles. The latter was not in
good spirits ; how could he be, walking side by
side with a rival, who, although excessively foolish
and absurd, was from his position, his birth, and
his claim of kinship with Euphrosyne, by no means
a despicable one.

Arrived at the villa, they were received on the
terrace by the Baroness. She received Charles
most cordially, and told him that he would find
Bianca in the arbour, and that she wanted to show
him some drawings she had made.

Greeting the Chevalier, the Baroness had an
expression of amusement, such as one sees on the
faces of good-natured elderly people when speaking
to a child. Truly the Chevalier was amusing.
As soon as he had reached the terrace, and was
in sight of the lady, he had made his first little
bow, which he performed by drawing himself up
stiffly and slowly making a right angle of himself,
the middle of his back being the apex thereof.
This he repeated three times, advancing between
each bow with a little mincing step. Had the
Baroness not been the courtly, well-bred lady that
she was she could not have helped laughing.

He immediately asked how her daughter was,
and the Baroness said she was well. He then
paused, he wanted to ask where she was, but did
not want to appear too pressing.

To tell the truth, the Baroness did not look with
a favourable eye on the little Chevalier's suit. She

VOL. II. a

had her own ideas on the subject of manliness, and
wanted to see her wedded to the most perfect man
she could find. Still, though the contemplation
of a union between Euphrosyne and de la Yigne
caused her no pleasurable feelings, she was too just
and honest to attempt to interfere in any way with
her daughter's inclinations, or to force her oneway
or the other.

Indeed, though she wished Euphrosyne to marry
eventually, lest the ancient line of the illustrious
Eienaimees should die out, she did not recognise
any immediate necessity for a step which
would separate her from her darling child. If she
entertained the idea of anyone as a son-in-law, she
decidedly inclined to the manly, strong, and handsome
di Caserta. She knew that Euphrosyne admired
him, but she did not understand his feelings
towards Euphrosyne. He appeared indifferent,
but well the Baroness knew that men often don
the mask of indifference to conceal feelings of
which they affect to feel ashamed.

She resolved, however, to let the Chevalier have
his full chance, and so she told him that he would
find Euphrosyne in the arbour with Bianca.

The Chevalier accordingly proceeded to the
moss-grown rockery that was called the arbour.
He found the two girls busy showing Charles
some drawings they had made. Bianca's were
all illustrations of her fancies of chivalrous
knights and doughty warriors. Euphrosyne's
were sketches of the beautiful nature of the Bay
of Naples, of flowers and trees, views of the sea.

pleasant little rills trickling from some age-greene
boulder on the Mils behind, and in all
her drawings was expressed the artist's love of
sunlight and repose. Bianca's illustrated the
moving incidents of romance, the moonlit battlefield,
the tourney, the fight against dragons and
similar subjects ; Bianca drew movement and
tragedy, Euphrosyne repose and peace.

Charles was in one of his quietest moods, and
had for some time abandoned his ambitious yearnings,
so that he found more pleasure in the quiet
harmonies of Euphrosyne, than in the wild designs
of Bianca. \Yhen he was asked, therefore, by the
Chevalier which of the class of the drawings he
preferred, he said —

"La Signora Euphrosyne's. They suit my
mood. They all suggest quiet, repose, happiness."


Titre, tu recusant, &c.," put in the Chevalier.


"Why," said Bianca, pleading her cause with
fire, " did you not say that for you there should
be no rest, and do you recant now? Does not
movement and battle urge you on, does not the
contemplation of the beauties of repose invite you
to pernicious sloth ? Pernicious, for you said that
you had the world to smite on the cheek."

What a very outre proposals' said the Chevalier.


It is one of my relapses to-day, Signorina,"
answered Charles.

"The ambitious should suffer no relapses," said

Bianca, scornfully. " I despise the gladiator wha
sleeps at the entrance of the arena, putting off the
struggle he is bound to undergo."

Do not talk about arenas,'^ said the Chevalier,,
for you bring to my mind that very unpleasant
day I spent at Pompeji. Some very vigorous
Englishmen who were staying at the Villa Castiglione,
the manager of which establishment is, in
parenthesis, unacquainted with the rudiments of
politeness, got me to accompany them to Pompeji.
I shall never forget the discomfort I suffered. The
dust, the heat ! And there was nothing to see
after all. I felt like Tantalus all the time I was
promenading the streets. The guide would lead
us up to an old ruin and say to me, dying of
thirst and hunger, this, gentlemen, was the shop
of a fruiterer. The most luscious melons, the
coolest of grapes, the juiciest of pomegranates,
may be supposed to have lain on this slab.' Or,
leading us to another tumble-down hut, he would
remark that a perfumer had formerly exercised his
profession there. My remark that it was a pity
that no perfumes had escaped the lava to scent the
air, in lieu of a peculiar, strong smell of garlic, was
received by the guide as an insult. Not content
with dragging me off my legs, through all the
narrow streets of this town, I was obliged to follow
my friends a long way, till we got to the arena. I
hope no gladiator ever suffered as much as I did
from weariness. When some sturdy Briton suggested
Herculaneum, I attributed it to the playful
irony which distinguishes the countrymen of

Shakespeare. It subsequently transpired, however,
that he was in full earnest'

During this speech Bianca and Charles exchanged
glances more than once. Bianca's eyes
turning with amusement from the Chevalier, rested
with a look of pity on Euphrosyne, who was listening
patiently to her cousin s talk.

When he had finished, and was refreshing himself
after his exertion by fanning himself with his
scented handkerchief, Euphrosyne said with a
little laugh —

Well, Monsieur Alphonse, I am sorry you do
not like Pompeji, because mamma wants me to go
there, and thought you could escort us''

I would do any service for a lady," said the
Chevalier, bowing, "even this disagreeable one. I
shall have much pleasure in escorting you to
Pompeji."

'^ Oh, do not put yourself out, dear Cavaliers,"
said Bianca, hastily. "We would not for the
world expose you to fatigue, and, as you find this
service a disagreeable one, we must find another
escort."

The Chevalier was heartily relieved ; he bowed.

Perhaps," said Euphrosyne, glancing at
Charles, " il Signor Angles would be so kind?"

Mademoiselle," answered Charles, " nothing
would make me happier, but I will not infringe on
the privileges and rights of this gentleman."

Privileges ? " said Euphrosyne.

Eights ? " echoed Bianca.

The poor little Chevalier looked at Charles as

much as to sap, " Well, that is your way of furthering
my suit, is it ? "

Lunch was then announced and during it the
subject of their proposed visit to thee disinterred
town was discussed. Indeed, it occupied the whole
conversation, and the Chevalier did not get one
opportunity of shining. It was only while coffee
was being handed round that he saw bis chance,
and before losing it, he burst, without any introduction,
into the following.

One day, at Naples, I saw a man selling cocoa
nuts, and so I asked the man,

' Comment appelle-ton cela? '

He answered —

' Non si pela ma si rompe.'

^''Comment?' said I.

' Non con mano, ma con martello,' answered
he.

' Je ne vous comprends pas,' said I.

' Eh,' said he, ^ se non lo complete voi, lo
contra un alto.'

Then he turned to a neighbouring orange-vendor
and added —

'^ ' Well, at least, one can understand these
Germans.' "

Euphrosyne was perhaps the only one who had
listened; she laughed heartily.

This so encourage-ed the Chevalier that he beeran
to tell a dubious Palais-Royal witticism, but one
reproachful glance of the Baroness' was enough to
silence him. He understood Euphrosyne as little as
Charles did.

It was then arranged that Charles should accompany
the three ladies to Pompeji, leaving Sorrento
the next day at about four, in time to catch the
5.30 p.m. train from Castellamare.

Very happy at this prospect, he returned home ;
happier still because before leaving the Villa
Dresda Euphrosyne had asked him if he would
like to take one of her drawings with him to keep.

You are a poet," she said. " I see that, and
you will find beauty in this poor little sketch of
mine. You see the subject was rather a sad one, a
bunch of flowers thrown into the cruel salt sea. I
saw it the other day. The flowers had lost their
fragrance and were withering in the biting waters.
Take it as an emblem if you like ; an emblem of a
beautiful life thrown away in the bitterness of the
world, or of the blight of a searing ambition on a
mind made to enjoy the beautiful."

Charles took it, and Bianca, who was standing
by, said —

I will put a piece of paper round it, it will get
soiled with the dust if you carry it thus."

When he got home and undid the cover he found
not one but two pictures. The other was signed
Bianca.

It represented a knight departing armed for
battle from his castle. Under the gateway stood a
lady, with her hand raised aloft, as if motioning
him onward and forward to victory. Her expression
was beautifully studied, her face denoted a
victory over the pain she felt at losing her dear
lord, and yet an expression of courage, and the

smile of a triumph anticipated rested on her
features.

The handful of sweet flowers, thirsting in the
pitiless salt waters of the cruel, devouring sea, and
the knight sped on his way by his ambitious lady
to conquer or to die, were they emblems ? were
they tokens ?

A LETTER FEO^ AMERICA.

It was just after dinner; Herbert lead gone
upstairs to play a game of bezique with John
Merton, and Charles was sitting oyer his coffee
with a " little white enemy " between his teeth.
He was interrupted in a pleasant meditation by a
waiter, who brought him a delicate little note and
two letters.

The note was from Euphrosyne. When the
woman we love first writes to us, how minutely we
weigh each word, striving to find in each conventional
word of polite endearment something we can
construe into an expression of a predilection on her
part towards us. The note was short, written in
polite Italian, It ran thus —

Splendid Mr. Chaeles,

"could your friend, Mr. Lovell, accompany
us tomorrow to Pompeji ? Mamma thought
he might like to come, and we should be glad of
his company.

Your most devoted,

'euphrosyne."

"Wliy has she written in Italian'' thought
Charles with a sigh of regret. " Why did she not
show me in English what she thinks her relation tome
is ? " Eor Charles well knew that the words

*' splendid " and "most devoted" are in use between:
the greatest strangers in courteous Italy. Form
part, T should be better pleased to be told by a
pretty girl that she was " most devoted " to mein
hyperbolical Italian than to hear that she remained
" mine sincerely " in formal English.

One of the letters was for Charles. It came from
Dorothy. She told him that she had been very-ill,
nigh unto death, but that the little woman was
better now, and could get about comfortably. She
begged him to write to her, for, as she said, " Who
in the world, except the mother you have lost,
has ever cared for you as I do ? "

The other letter was in a mourning envelope,
and came from America. It was not for Charles
at all. It was addressed to Herbert Lovell, at
Leipzic, and had been forwarded.

Charles took the note and the letter up to
Merton's apartment. He gave them to Herbert
and waited to hear his answer. Mildred brought
him some coffee, and John who had heard his
praises sung repeatedly by Herbert, reproached
him for not coming oftener.

Charles said he had so much work to do that he
could not well manage to pay any visits.

Visits ? Mr. Hauberk. Please don't use such
very formal words. We live in the same house,
and we ought to be good friends. No, I don't want
you to leave cards on me at intervals, but to come
and see us, and play cards, and hear Mildred sing,
and then we would come and see you."

I regret," said Charles, " that I cannot avail

myself very often of the pleasures of the interesting
programme you hold out. I have infinite work todo,
and I am sure if I came often I should come too
often, and then my work would be neglected. But,
Herbert, what is the matter ? "

Herbert had read his letter in silence, and at the
end had risen to his feet pale and excited.

I have bad news, very bad news, from New
Work. My step-father is dead."

"Your father is dead?" exclaimed John and
Mildred rising to their feet.

My poor friend," continued John, taking hold
of Herbert's hand, while Mildred timidly took the
other. " Your father dead ? "

No, that grief has passed long ago. I don't
remember it. It is my step-father, who was as
kind to me as any father could be, who is dead."

Sit down again and get calm," said Mildred ina
voice full of compassion,

I am quite calm," said Herbert, with a grateful
glance at the girl. " I have not realised it yet.
My mother is in the greatest grief. He was the
best of men."

Sister and brother both did their best to comfort
their stricken friend,, and Charles too helped in
this ministration. By-and-bye Herbert said he
would rather retire, he would feel better alone.
Then bidding his friends good-night, with many
thanks, he walked slowly and sorrowfully out of
the room.

Poor fellow," said John.

"Poor, poor boy," said Mildred, "and yet a

brave boy too ; lie bears it well, strongly, manfully,
does he not ? "

I never doubted that Herbert Lovell would
lack in manliness at any time, or under any cir-
cumstances,^^ said John with warm affection.

When Charles went to bed that night he found
on his table Euphrosyne note, Herbert letter,
and a pencil line from his friend, telling him to
read the letter, and adding that he could not go
out on a pleasure-trip at present.

copy of a letter from Mrs, Dixon to her son
Herbert Lovell.)

"New York.

"My Dearest Herbert,

When last I wrote, I told you that your
papa was ailing and now I have to tell you the
fearful news that he is dead. He died yesterday
afternoon, quite peacefully and conscious to the
end. Almost his last words were, ' Give my dear
love to my boy and tell him what I regret, next
to leaving you, is not to see him again. He was
always a good, true, honest, affectionate lad," and
a great comfort to all of us.' Shortly afterwards
he tried to write you a few lines, expressing his
love, but his pen fell from his hand, and a few
minutes afterwards he left us.

I am in the greatest affliction, and miss you
more than anything. You alone could bring me
comfort in this terrible sorrow.

I cannot speak decisively about my plans for
the future. Your papa has left everything he

possesses between us ; and his partner Mr. Cooper,
who has been most kind, has arranged to settle all
the money matters, and to pay for Mr. Dixon's
share in the brewery.

I think it very probable that I shall come over
to Europe, not to England, I cannot breathe
English air, bat perhaps I shall settle down in
Italy.

'^ However, I will write more fully tomorrow, I
am so weary with grief that I can write no more
to-day. My dear, dear boy, take many, many
kisses from your poor mother, and believe ever
and always,

Your most loving mother,

"Dora Dixon.

'^P.S. — I forgot. Just as he was d3dng, I bent
over him to take a last kiss from his dear lips, and
I heard him say these last words with almost his
last breath. ' Dora, forgive poor Esther, love from
me.' If ever I bore my poor sister any ill-will,
this dying prayer of a man whom I have loved and
respected so many years, would more than atone
for any fault of hers. Now good-bye, my dear son,
you are all to me now."

Next morning, Charles went into Herbert's room
to see how he was bearing his sorrow. He found
him sitting up in bed, reading a letter.

How do you feel, this morning ? '^ asked
Charles.

'•"I did not sleep much last night," answered
Herbert. " I have been thinking of the dead man

that is gone. What a comfort his blessing is tome.
It is for mj dear mother that I feel more
than for myself. Tell me, Charles, did you love
your mother dearly ? '*

"But for the fact that I am alive, I have no
proof that I ever had a mother. No, I have no
reason to cherish her memory. Her legacy to me
vas one of grief, of tears, of reproach. I never
knew her, my happiness is there," was the bitter
reply of Charles.

Herbert looked at him affectionately and sorrowfully,
then he said —

'^ I have received another letter this morning.
My mother appears decided not to stay in New
York, and wishes to come over to Europe. She
will not go to England

noticed that she said that she could not
breathe English air. Is she delicate ? "

No," said Herbert, with a smile. " Physically
she has no objection to England. She must have
suffered much there. She has often said that she
could not rest in an English grave."
Do you know why ? " asked Charles.
No ; my mother's past is a profound secret tome,
she has never told me about herself or her
youth, and of my father I know nothing. True it
is I have never questioned her much, she appeared
to dislike questions on the subject. I have a vague
impression that he was a lawyer in London, but
that is all. I have lost a dear father in Mr. Dixon,
that is what I know."

When does joiir mother intend to come overdo
you know ? "

I should think m a few months ; she does not
give a date in this letter, but she says, ' I do not
like the idea of remaining in New York, the society
here is not very tasteful to me,' and adds that she
has almost made up her mind to come to Italy. I
wrote last night to tell her where I was, and I shall
hear from her in a few weeks. She will have quite
made up her mind by then. How glad I am that
I received this painful news here, where I have
such dear friends, and not alone in Leipzic. What
nice people those Mertonss are ! "

eyes," said Charles, "they appear a very
worthy, respectable young couple. I regret that
I am unable to cultivate 'their nearer acquaintance."


Why is that ? "

^' Because it is of vital importance to me to be
very careful in forming any connections. I do
not know if you take my meaning, but I must not
get to know people who, though excellent in their
sphere, might eventually be a bar to my progress."
Herbert looked at him sorrowfully, and holding
out his hand, said —

My dear Charles, will the prize when you have
won it be worth all the sacrifice you are making?
I do not exactly know what you are striving after,
but I know that, now-a-days, rewards come late,
and will a bitter youth be atoned for by a successful
old age ? When you have gained what you desire,

will that counterbalance the pleasures you
have lost ? Will it bring back all the warm beauties
of life, the bright flowers of life which you have
trodden beneath your feet in your hasty path-taking
towards the goal ? ^'

Ah Euphrosyne ! Euphrosyne ! The sweet
flowers dripping with the bitter brine of the sea.
How eloquently they spoke to Charles now.

But he steeled his heart, and refused to tarry by
the pleasant wayside, on, on, along the dusty road
to the ultimate dim thule of his ambition.

So he answered, with somewhat of a cold rebuke
in his tone. "I do not quite understand you,
Herbert, everybody has his place in society. I,
mine ; the Mertonss, theirs. We will keep them, if
you please. They do not affect in the least any
proposition I have made to myself, any plan I may
have arranged for the future. ^^

Wells' said Herbert cheerfully, " my dear
fellow, of course you know best. And I hope you
will have a very pleasant day of it. You must
bring back a long account from Pompeji."

"I am so sorry that you cannot come," said
Charles.

I could come, only I think I ought to devote
this day, at least, to the memory of the dead. I
should not feel happy if I spent the morrow of my
receiving the news of his death in pleasure-taking."

Of course not," said Charles. '' I never meant
to suggest such a thing."

He then bede his friend good-bye, and was going
to leave the room when Herbert said —

Oh, there is one thing I forgot. There is an
English paper lying there. Take it, it may interest
your friends. There is a long account of a new
French play in it."

Charles took the paper , and bidding Herbert
farewell, went back to his books.

It had been arranged that he should lunch at
the Villa Dresda, spend the afternoon there, and
take the ladies to Pompeji in the evening.

Lunch passed very pleasantly ; the girls were in
good spirits at the prospect of seeing so interesting
a sight, and Charles was quite happy in the
presence of Euphrosyne.

After lunch the girls asked Charles to read tO'
them; and Bianca further suggested that they
should take the boat and row into the shade of a
cliff, and then Signor Carlo could read to them.

This was done, and Charles took Stranger's
poems with him to read.

But the girls soon complained they did not want
poetry, had he not anything interesting ?

Oh, yes," said Charles, *' I have an English
newspaper here, there is plenty of interest in that.
Shall I read you the police news. Here's an interesting
account of a fearful double murder and
suicide at Clapham, an audacious burglary at
Putney, a wonderful pickpockets case at Parson's
Green, and a blazing fire at Kensington."

No," said Bianca, laughing, " is there nothing
about art in that big sheet, that looks for all the
world like a sail ? "

VOL. II. H

Yes'' said Charles, " there is an account of a
new play at the * Francis.' It seems interesting."


He then read it to them. When he had finished,
it was time to go home, so he folded up his paper
to put it into his pocket. While he was doing this
his eye fell on a prominently placed advertisement.
He read it carelessly. It ran —

NOTICE, — Would the lady who helped a poor
girl at the Grosvenor Hotel, in October last,
kindly communicate with the lawyer who called on
her on that occasion. By doing bo she will greatly
oblige. Sister's address not known.

Had Charles looked a little lower down he would
have seen this other advertisement : —

r^~-\ r\f~\ REWARD. — Whoever can give 

i V /V / formation as to the whereabouts of
Esther Lovell, lately in America, and last seen in
London, will receive the above reward. Also, should
this meet the eye of Esther Lovell, she is earnestly
entreated to communicate with the advertiser at
once. — John George Bennett, Lincoln's Inn,
London.

Charles did not row fast enough for the girls,
who were anxious to get home in order to get
ready for their excursion. Bianca had a famous
idea.

'' Let us take his paper, Euphrosyne, and make a
sail of it. I will hold two ends and you the other.
Look, we can do it so."

What a pretty picture they made, these two
girls, holding the mimic sail, merrily laughing as
the boat sped its way through the blue waters ;
the fearless Bianca erect, and the timid Euphrosyne
crouching in the boat, with all her brown hair
blowing wildly in the wind, flushed with the sea
breeze, and merrily laughing to think that she
was helping the boat along.

Just before they got home the wind grew
stronger, and a sudden gust tore the sail out of
the girls' hands. It blew into the sea and was
lost.

THE CITY OF THE DEAD.

Few reminiscences were pleasant to Charles in
after life than that of his first visit to Pompeji.
At four o'clock that afternoon the Baroness's
barouche was ready to take tlieni to Castellamare,
Charles sat opposite to Euphrosyne the whole time,
and this was enough to make him very happy.
They were all so merry and even the stately mother
unbent, and joined freely in the cheerful conversation.
Euphrosyne was radiant with smiles, and
Bianca, prattling all the time, a charming Lalage.
The drive from Sorrento to Castellamare is considered
one of the most beautiful in the world.
The road lies straight at first, and runs through
several quaint and beautiful villages, with the white
walls of the cottages rising from the midst of
gardens radiant with all colours, with picturesque
villas dotted here and there, and every now and
then some lofty church raising its gilded cupola
into the transparent air ; then through some old
market place, which for centuries has been the
meeting place of the bronzed and black-bearded
idlers of the village, the rendezvous of gossipy,
white-tucked women ; past the villages along
the mountain side , over gorges, green with luxuriant
foliage, through the gleaming pearly cast —
for even the dust is beautiful in Italy ; and then

slowly winding up the promontories mountain side,
to descend on the jon side, through fresh beauties,
to the level of the blue sea, to Castellamare. At
every point the view presents new beauties, but
nowhere perhaps is it so remarkable as when the
top of the promontory is reached, before the road
bends inwards and downwards to Castellamare.
From here the whole table land of Sorrento and
Massa is descried. The chief effect in colour is
an intensely beautiful green, broken here and therewith
the red and white roofs of houses, or the
flush of some oleander in bloom. Behind this
wavy mass of spangled green rise high mountains,
covered with silvery olive trees, deep green myrtles,
looping vines, or the little white huts of the colony.
To the right, the sea o-leaminor like a mass of silver
and azure threads entwined, moving beneath the
faint breath of some breeze balmy with a thousand
scents. Beyond, the islands of Procida, the brown
lava-strewn heights of Ischia, the low-lying peninsula
of Posilipo. Over all, the glorious Italian
sky, dancing with warmth, and apparently aglow
with pleasure.

It was at this point that the Baroness bade the
coachman stop, and for a few minutes the party
gave themselves the pleasure of looking at the
exquisite panorama. While thus occupied a wandering
tramp, of the Italian gipsy type, went by
with his wife. A little while afterwards, his son,
a sturdy little fellow of about eight or nine years,
came past the carriage. Seeing gentlefolks, he
stopped and, putting out his hand, said in a voice

half pleading, half-threatening, <* Maori di fan ; *^
maori di fame ' no sold,' ' no sold.' ^'

Then, seeing that the gave him nothing, he
raised his stick, and placed it against his shoulder
like a gun, and stood in this menacing attitude as
if about to fire on them. The pose was a very
graceful one, and the attitude, dress, and expression
were strikingly picturesque. This little boy,
a mere child, browned by the sun, standing with
his little naked feet and legs white vdth dust, clad
in a blue shirt, a ragged pair of corduroys, and a
red rag twisted into his black hair, as an only
protection against all the inclemency of weather
he might encounter in his wanderings. There
was something interesting in this menace from so
mere a child, conscious, as it were, of its strength
and inured in the fatal knowledge of the weapons
that the poor use against the rich, violence, brigandage,
murder. The effect this little incident
had on the different occupants of the barouche
was diverse. Charles laughed, remarking, "the
tiger's cub shows its teeth ; " Euphrosyne looked
interested in the pose ; Bianca jumped out of the
carriage, and lifting the ragged, dusty, little
brigand into her arms, kissed him on both his
ruddy cheeks ; the Baroness acted most wisely,
perhaps, bidding the coachman give the boy a few
soldi, with which the child departed, not with an
air of gratitude but of triumph, as if he had
battled and won.

As soon as the carriage started again, Bianca
said to Charles, laying emphasis on each word —

''I like that boy. He will be a man. He is a
man. He meets disappointment with the point of
the sword. He cannot even conceive defeat. Yet
a few soldi were the object of his ambition, and
he gained them. In the same way, little will lie
beyond his power of obtaining what he wants."

If he does not previously find his way to
Nesida/' said Charles.

Bianca answered nothing but lay back in the
carriage, and from time to time threw a keen
searching glance at Charles, who was busily talking
to Euphrosyne.

They then drove on without interruption to
Castellamare, passing by gardens of orange trees,
fig, pomegranate and arbutus trees, through vineyards,
by olive-tree plantations, or by uncultivated
mountain sides where the myrtle and match-tree
luxuriated.

At Castellamare they took the train to Pompeji,
and reached the little station about six o'clock. A.
walk of about two hundred yards led them to the
entrance of the town of the dead ; here they were
supplied with a guide, and, full of anticipation and
interest, they passed through the Porta Marina
into the silent city.

One enters Pompeji full of interest and excitement,
one leaves it, depressed, heavy at heart,
melancholy and mournful. Here, more than elsewhere,
does a man, though confident of his strength,
recognise how feeble he is opposed to the Titan
sisters, Nature and Time. He sees here the traces
of all the fruits of human energy, art, religion commerce,

pleasure, vice, all effaced, and plunged in
eternal silence. The once busy shops, the theatres,
the amphitheatre, the temples of the gods, the
forum where eloquent voices once enthralled the
eager listeners, the market places, once thronged
with wrangling merchants, are all given over to a
pulseless, voiceless void. Thou shall perish, son of
Woman. Ye shall perish ye gods q/* mai, is what
each silent wall seems to bear on it in flaming
letters, written by the same hand that hurled the
ominous Mene, Mene, Tekel Uphaesin at the
"drunken lord of the Babylonians.

Where are now the men who paced these narrow
streets, unremembered save by their footprints on
the yielding pavement ? Where are now the gods
that were worshipped then ? Does their presence
still haunt the naked precincts of their desolate
temples, waiting for a sacrifice that will never be
made, for an oblation eternally postponed ?

Before reflections like these do not the same
questions arise with regard to us, of this day?
When time has buried us beneath a pall that
cannot be removed, like the shroud that lay
over the town of the Comedians, what trace
will there be of us, and, infinitely more awful
question, where will be the culture of the gods
we now worship ? Will not their fall be a more
terrible one than this, for while we worship the
emblems of eternal love and purity, the Comedians
bent their knees to the impersonations of
lust, theft, and murder. We start back horror-stricken
before the proofs that this town affords

of the fearful degeneracy and immorality of its
age ; are we better to-day, or do not our towns
contain vices more hideous than these, crimes more
appalling ?

It may be that thoughts like these kept
Charles busy, for he was silent while they
walked through the ghostly precincts of the
town.

No one spoke much saving the guide, who
seemed wound up, and unwinding a flow of talk.

At each spot Charles tried to imagine the
people who bad once walked the place. In the
Forum, the stately white-bearded senators gravely
discussing the news from Eome ; in the Temple of
Venus young lovers blushingly bringing offerings
to their patron, wooing her favour for their love ;
in the Tribunals the venal magistrates dispensing
justice, if it was paid for ; below in the
vaults the poor debtors, or prisoners of no account,
trembling.

Cave Caxem " was the inscription, so told
them the guide, written in Mosaic on the threshold
of the House of the Tragic Poet, which they
passed on their way to the Thermse. " Cave
Ca>'EM," was it an omen ? For, standing in the
atrium of this ruin, Charles was startled to see no
one of less importance than his old acquaintance
of Moll's Coll., Oxford — Mangles Breweries. Yes,
it was Mangles, dazzling in a tweed suit of the
most brilliant pattern, correctly got up as the
Englishman on the Continent, with a blue gauze
veil round his straw hat, an opera glass slung in a

case by his side, a large green parasol, and, finest
touch of all, a Baedeker in its flaring red back ii
his hand.

Cave Cane, by all means, thought Charles, ashe
harried before the rest of the party into the retreat
of the Thermse, for of all persons, even were it
not for the unpleasant relation which still existed
between them, his unpaid debt, Mangles was the
last person he wished to see. To have unpleasant
things told about him to the Baroness, perhaps
thereby to lose his acquaintance with them, to
be held up a suspicious character, hiding under
an alias, was not so much his reason for wishing
to shun the young man, but being at Pompeji
he would not, could not submit to have his mind
thrown out of the poetical state that it was in
by the penalties and vulgarisms of Mr. Mangles,
and to carry away, not a serious, lasting impression
of a melodious silence, but faint echoes
of plebeian English phrases of conventional admiration,
and of the distressing formulae of his
countrymen. How truly rural. How nice. Eeally,
how interesting.

The house of the Tragic Poet is nearly opposite-the
Thermse, and as Breweries had the habit of
speaking loud, all that he said was heard by
Charles. His speech jarred on Charles's ear,.
strung to a delicate pitch by the melodious Italian
of the guide, and the poetical Latinity suggested
by the place.

What dryer call this ? The Adrian, eh ? Why
Adrian? Was Adrian a tragic poet, and why did

he keep a dog ? A cave dog too. "What's a
cave dog ? Who slept in those 'oles ? Cubicules
did per say ? Why Cubicules ? And what poetry
did he write, and did his dog disturb him ? And
whereas the refreshments ? I'm dry after this
trotting. Chiefly beer and sugar line myself.
Where's yer beer, and who brewed it ? What was
the dog's name ? Nonkey Pisco. A rum name fora
dog. Yes I hear. Nonkey Pisco. What breed ?
Oh ! Nonkey Pisco too ! Rum idea to call it after
its breed. A sort of spaniel wolf-terrier. And
where's the Amphitheatre ? Arrear, how charming.
Reply the view is fine. "What's that island
called ? Nonkey Pisco too ! Dear, dear," &c.,
&c.

Charles managed to escape Mangles, and did not
meet him at all.

Their visit was di-awinof to a close. Passing:
back through the Forum Charles strayed away,
unobserved by the watchful guide, into the temple
of Venus. Ascending the steps, which lead from
the basement to the real temple, Charles looked
around ; in front of him rose, lit by the rosy glow
of the heavens, the Monte St. Angelo. All was
hushed, and solemn in the approaching night.

Charles turned to the temple. On the altar
where of yore so many trembling hands had laid
their offerings to the foam-bon goddess, sat two
doves. Startled by his approach they rose, fluttered
in the air, and settled down again on the broken
coronal of a column.

A few wild flowers grew on the soil that lay

between the crannies of the stone. Charles picked
these, and with uncovered head laid them on the
votive stone.

It was thus Euphrosyne saw him. She, too,
had come to take a last look at the temple of the
Paphian queen.

He was standing there with his arms thrown
out as if in supplication, his black hair floating
out on the evening wind. In front of him the altar,
and bj his side the column, where sat emblems of
true love, the bright-plumaged doves, and over alla
perfect silence.

Euphrosyne stayed, one foot resting on the
broken step, and the flush of the skies lighting up
her face, regarding Charles.

At last she spoke —

Signer Carlo, we are returning. Will you not
come ? "

He turned and blushed, then slowly descended
the steps, with his eyes fixed on the radiant girl.
She stayed behind, ascended to the altar, and,
taking the flowers he had laid there, placed them
in her bosom.

She stood thus a little while, oue hand grasping
the crumbling altar-stone, lost in thought.

A large hideous night-owl, which had spent
the glaring day in a cool recess, leapt out into the
air. Its season of prey-taking had come. The
doves, frightened by the rushing of its swooping
wings, rose in timid haste and fled away, one one
way, the other the other, into the night.

THE END IS COME OF PLEASANT PLACES.

It was early morning on a day about a inontli after
their visit to Pompeji. The sun had risen behind
the Apennines, and was gradually dispelling the
thick morning mist that lay over Naples.

There was as yet not much life on the waters of
the bay, save where some early fisherman rowed
his solitary boat, singing in the clear morning
It was delightfully cool, and but for the
sweet notes of birds among the vines, the eternal
splash of the blue waters on the grey rocks, and
the far-off revellers of the mighty city, all was
silent.

Bianca had risen early, and stood on the terrace
looking towards the sea. There was much in
harmony between the girl's nature and the
moving water. She was restless and always
moving.

At this very moment her actions and gestures
betrayed, her character ; for every now and then
she would move from her leaning position and
pace the terrace, would halt again, and then pace
up and down once more.

She was speaking aloud ; it was a habit of hers
to speak out her thoughts. She had marked the
sunrise, and these were her words —

How like a tyrant the sun is. How blandly,
how quietly lie rises, hiding carefully the oppression
that he harbingers. We hail his approach
with joy ; it is full of promise, of beauty, gladness,
and happiness ; but once he is fairly in the
heavens, once safely in his throne, once secure
from overthrow, he pours forth his darts of fire on
those who greeted his birth with acclaim, and
whips with scourges of scorpions those who bent
before him. And yet I love this emblem. I love
the thought of a man thus mastering the world to
-whom he once did obeisance. , . , He said
that it was for him to smite the world on the
cheek, and I noted how his eyes gleamed when he
spoke those words. Oh ! he is noble, he is beautiful,
he is noble. To dream of such a man all one's
youth through and then to find him — is not
that enough happiness ? To find among a crowd
of puppets of men, content with everything
simply because things are so satisfied that ' whatever
is is right,' inert, without the principle of
motion in their flaccid minds, a young man,
inspired, angry, discontent, restless, and above alla
young man with power and beauty — that is my
happiness. I love him. Hove him, love, love, love
him ! To be always with him, to help him in this
work, to do battle against that mass of selfish
prejudice, to help to tear from the grasping hands
of the mob what he claims as his own, to wrench a
crown, be it, from the claws of his fellow-men and
place it on his head. What would be better than
that ? I wish he loved me ; oh ! I do wish he knew

that I feel for him, that I would help him to my
utmost power, that at his bidding I would leave
all that is dear to me, that I would cleave to him
all his life, that I would be true to death to him,
that I could and would be of great use to him.
Why does he not see it ? Is he blind ? or have I lost
that beauty that I had ? Are my eyes less bright ?
Has this burning love wasted me ? "

Here she walked from the terrace to the garden,
in the centre of which lay a clear, pellucid pool, on
which some water-lilies floated.

She bent over it with a questioning look in her
flashing eyes. Her hair, loosely fastened with a
silver comb, fell in profusion all over her long
white neck and shoulders. Holding it back from
her eyes with one little white hand she looked at
the reflection in the water. Then she knelt down,
and plucking a lily turned it round her head, the
drops of fresh water gleaming like diamonds
between the mottled leaves and the black locks of
her hair.

Is not this enough," she continued, " to
attract, to allure ? For I want to attract him,
and him only''

She tore the lily from her hair with an impatient
gesture, and threw it, crushed by her grasp, back
into the water.

I care nothing for this if it is not of his liking.
I wish to please him, and him alone. I care not
if all Naples, from the king to yonder fisher-lad,
call me ' La Bella Bianca.' Bella ! Faugh, if not
beautiful to him."

With these and other winged words, she returned
to her room.

She found Euphrosyne up, and writing at her
table. Euphrosyne, too, had been thinking of
Charles. But Euphrosyne expressed her thoughts
in another way. Whenever anything was strongly
and vividly in her thoughts, she wrote.

That is what she had written that morning : —

"Is it not enough to be beautiful, to be noble ?
Why does a beautiful and noble being strive for
more ? Can worldly greatness enhance these possessions
? Ah ! the sea, the sea, and the handful
of sweet flowers withering therein ! To enter the
world with a wreath of bays round his head, to
have in his hand the lyre of many strings, each
thrilling, beneath his touch, to melodious tunes ;
to have all the beauties of the world in his eyes,
all the warmth of the sun in his heart, all its
music in his ears — is not that enough for a man ?
To trample his wreath beneath his feet, to prefer
the crown of some worldly distinction, to use his
sweet-stringed lyre not for love melodies, but for
the braying discords of strife, to supplant the
innate warmth of his heart with the chill of envy ;
to close his eyes to the beauties, his ear to the
music of the world of nature, and to race with
angry men for some paltry prize. Oh ! why does
he do it ? In the stead of an eternal morning, the
morning of the awakening child, the fierce blast
of noon'

Here Bianca entered, and Euphrosyne, crumpling
the paper in her hand, rose to give her greeting.

So earls, loved Bianca ? ^'

?o early, my Euphrosyne ! "

The morning is so beautiful," said Euphrosyne,
that. I could not lie abed. There was a little
singer in the vines, over there, who seemed to keep
bidding me to rise. And then I did not sleep) well.
I have been thinking."

'' Of Arnolfo ? " asked Bianca, with a sister's
tenderness.

I have thought much of Arnolfo. I have
thought more of him than is good for peace. You
know, Bianca mia, that I loved your brother."

"You were a little goose , Euphrosyne," said
Bianca, throwing her arms round her friend's neck.
You were a silly little goose. You must not think
of Arnolfo. You do not know him. Besides, he
is going to be married."

Married ! di Caserta ! " said Euphrosyne,
opening her blue eyes.

Yes, married to a lady at Florence. Men will
get married, you know."

Need they ? '^ said Euphrosyne.

They do, care, they marry."

"Why?"

They want a figure head to their table, they
want a companion, they want children's

"And, for that, do they many ? "

Oh ! there are other reasons. They love,
often at least."

"That word, again," said Euphrosyne; "love,
love, and always marriage. Must they go together."


VOL. II. I

'' Few men are content with a Beatrice, or with
the memory of a lost Lenore. They want of this
world, not of the consider."

Do not couple Poe with Dante," said Euphrosyne
seriously

But tell me, child, you have never told me so
before, did you love my brother ? "

I used to think that I should die if he died. I
used to think that I lived with him and for him.
I used to dream, aye, in day dreams too, of the
bliss of being always near him, always with my
arms round his neck, like yours are round mine""

And now ? "

'* And now I think no more so. I have suffered
much, and suffer still to think that all that was a
dream. I always knew that Arnolfo did not understand
me. Nobody seems to. And now I am glad
thereof. Yes, very glades

"Why?"

Binnca, I never had a brother, at least I had
a brother once. He was a little Garonne-side
peasant, I called him Bee. He was not a real
brother, but I thought I felt for him as a sister.
Indeed I loved him."

And ? " asked Bianca, after a pause, still holding
Euphrosyne in her arms.

And, well, I know, therefore, what a sister
feels. Do you know, I wish I had died when I
was a little girl ? "

'' Euphrosyne ! "

Yes, died. I should have died a child, and
rested for ever among the flowers.''^

And about Arnolfo ? "

'^Ah! Arnolfo. Well it is of him that I wish,
this. I am happy else. I — have — heard — of —
Arnolfo — but you are his sister, and I can say no
more."

Euphrosyne burst into tears , and Bianca comforted
her.

I know, I knows' she said, kissing away the
tears, " and that is why I called you a little goose
and said you did not know my brother. I am not
very angry with him. Most men are so. At least
very many. That is why I am not angry. I
should be much happier were it not so ; but I
was more unhappy for you for I thought you
loved him."

''Idid, Did, Did."

Yes, but loved him as women love men. Loved
him so as to become his wife. Ee is nut fur you,
and you, darling, are not for him. You are a little
wild flower from old Garonne, and must be kept
from the hot sirocco of the world."

*' I am still a child, I know," said Euphrosyne.
*' I would I were to be a child always. Flowers
and music, that is my happiness. You are tor the
world. You are like a palm-tree, and stand refreshed
by the hot blast."

Yes," cried Bianca, ^' of the world and against
it. Against the hard, cold prejudice, and the
withering blast of envy and hate. Refreshed !
Yes, and more strong."

Going on to the terrace the two girls heard
someone open the gate, and presently Charles

appeared, crossing the lawn. He had a tired,
dejected air, and walked with hanging head and
irresolute step. Now and then he stopped, as if
undecided whether to go on. His clothes were
disarranged, and his hair in more disorder than
ever. He had no hat on, and in one hand he
carried a paper.

'' Come, there is Carlo," said Bianca ; ^' let ns
go and meet him, and wish him the good morning."


They descended into the garden . Charles started
when he saw Euphrosyne, and drew back.

'' You are up early, Signor," said Bianca.

Charles, who looked quite bewildered, said
nothing.

"Good morning. Carlo," said Euphrosyne, extending
her hand.

Charles seized it but let it go at once, and
said —

Yes, Signorina, I am early ; at least, I have
not slept all night."

'^ A new poem ? or a fever ! The work, the
work ! " said Bianca, first laughing, then anxiously.

"Yes, a poem," said Charles with a bitter
laugh. "If pain be a poem, most certainly a
poem. A poem, if grief and tears be a poem."

Grief and tears ? " said Euphrosyne with an
anxious glance at the boy's dejected and weary
face.

Charles smiled.

I am rather dramatic, I fear' said he, " but

there are dramas in our life. I did not expect to
see you ladies. I am startled, that is all." ^

"That is not all," said Bianca impatiently.
Has your work failed ? "

"My work has never begun. It was only an
angry fancy of mine. Therefore it has not failed
since it never existed. ^o, I thought I should
like to see this place again. I love this garden.
That is why I came.^^

Then he took Euphrosyne's hand and kissed it.
To Bianca he bowed. Then turning to go, he said —

I feel like a sleep-walker, and yet I ran all the
way here. I stopped an hour at the gate and
thought of going back. This seems all strange,
does it not ? This paper would have explained it,
but now that I have seen — you — it is enough.
The paper has nothing to explain now."

Charles tore the sheet into pieces, and after
standing irresolutely for a minute or two bowed
and turned away, turned back, stammered a few
words, and finally ran away.

Bianca looked at Euphrosyne ; Euphrosyne
looked at Bianca.

The poor boy works too much,'^ said Bianca ;
did you see he had no hat on ? "

I only saw his eyes," said Euphrosyne.

We will ask ' la madre ' to invite him to
lunch; he will tell us then what is the matter,"
said Bianca.

The Baroness, who had grown very fond of
Charles, readily wrote the invitation, but suggested
asking him to dinner instead.

This was agreed Ripon, and at three o'clock that
afternoon the Bienaimee footman took the note
round to the Grande Sentinelle.

He returned with this message from the proprietor
of the hotel — •

II Sign or Carlo left the hotel this morning,
and has gone to Naples. He will not return, he
says'

This was the matter. Charles had spent nearly
all the remainder of his money in paying his bill
the previous evening. He had long foreseen that
the moment would come when his funds would be
exhausted. New clothes, drives, rows, and other
expensive luxuries had soon run away with his
money. He had no one to turn for help. Yes,
there was Dorothy, but Charles still felt bitter
against the little woman. He could not ask her
for help. He merely wrote to say, " My funds are
quite exhausted, but my courage is not. I leave
this place to-morrow and go to Naples. lean thy
to live there at any rate. I can drive a cab, row a
boat, act as interpreter. That is all."

All the night previous to his departure he had
kept awake full of distressful thoughts. That now,
of all times, his evil fortune should press upon him
was too cruel. He felt that at last Euphrosyne
was beginning to like him, he felt that he had
some hope, that this strange game he was playing
against chance might turn favourably for him;
and now by the want of money, by that hard,
positive need of money, it seemed as if his last
hopes were dashed to the ground.

A leaf from his diary has come into my hands ;
it expresses fully his feelings on the subject, and I
therefore append it —

At last the day has come when the lots eater
must rise from his bed of voluptuous ease. The
north wind has arisen and all the coloured clouds
that hid the dark horizon have been rudely blown
away. It is finished — that is the sorrow of it.

'' Let me calmly review my exact position ; let
me strip the cold cruel fact of the curtaining
robes that my fancy and hopes have woven ro md
it. To-night all the money I have in the world is
465 frcs., this with a few clothes, soaie books,
and my dear little dog, is all my worldly possession,
and I the son of Charles Hauberk. To-morrow I
have to pay these people's bill — 450 frcs. Re niins
15 frcs. I have no one to turn to. John E phin-
stone now acknowledges no claim of mine on him,
he paid me 6,000 farthings, et voildjini. To miss
Crosthwaite I will not apply — she is not of me,
nor for me. She opposes violently the only
object I have to live for. I cannot think of her.
There is Lovell, the American, but my pride
forbids me to ask him. They told me that my
proud father would never touch the hand of an
inferior. The old gamekeeper from Appledean,
whom I met at Oxford, said that often when his
work was done the old lord would call him to him
and drop a present of gold into his hand, but never
touched his hand. And shall I, his son, take from
the hand of this man a present, a loan, and shake
his hand warmly in gratitude ? And what would it

avail me if I did ? It would postpone my trouble,
not destroy it. No, I must go, and beginning at
the lowest rung of the ladder battle upwards in the
world. M}' fight will be a harder one ; but when
the work is over and done the prize will be the
sweeter."

And then he had fallen to writing, and the
bottom of the leaf of the diary is covered with
signatures : Hauberk, Brookshire, and other
tokens to show where the poor boy's mind was.

He fell a-thinking then, and Euphrosyne came
before his eyes. Gentle, pure Euphrosyne, the
little wild flower from old Garonne side. He had
learnt to know her better the last few days, and this
knowledge had fed his love. Charles was not of a
vulgar mind, he had himself quite under control,
and shunned vice, not only because its hideousness
was abhorrent to him, but because he felt a
pride in himself which forbade his stooping to join
in the low and vulgar pleasures of other young
men.

At the University he was noted for his rigorous
observance of this inborn principle of his. ^' It
is not gentlemanly," he used to say, when any
"blue story was started at his "wines," and few of
the undergraduates who were present that May
morning, at Lord H — 's breakfast party at the
House," will forget how Charles Hauberk Benson
walked out of my lord's room, when my lord,
warmed with the strong posset, began to entertain
his guests with anecdotal heirlooms, handed down
to my lord by his worthy three-bottle ancestors.

'' It is not gentlemanly," lie said, bowing to mj
lord. " You did not invite me here, I know, to
offend me, and I will o^o before I begin to regret
accepting your hospitality."

With this unbending repugnance to vice in men
Charles was infinitely stricter in his ideas about
women. The word '*" woman " was in his mind a
word full of infinite suggestion of praise, and he
classed as among a third sex, a sex of pariahs, all
the filthy of men and women, even those whom
the world passed as models of all that is good, but
vrho hide behind the fig-leaves of the world's
opinion all uncleanness. A woman to Charles was
a being pure as a marble statue ; an evil thought,
a loose word, a veiled suggestion, even the
merest breath of the winds that fan Priapus,
in a woman, rendered her no longer a woman in
his opinion.

He had found in thee world few " women," very,
very few ; but at last he had found Euphrosyne.
Yes, Euphrosyne, and that was the end of all.
Here was a woman. He loved her; why seek for
more ? And now he was to lose her, and be
banished from her fair presence to the lowest
grades of poverty, and unromantic poverty, of hard,
dirty, vulgar, vicious poverty.

The sun bad dawned upon him still thinking.
It woke him from his dreams and brought into
light all the misery of the fact. He started to his
feet. , H e could see Euphrosyne once more, or at
least the home of Euphrosyne. He wrote a few
lines on a paper.

I leave this for a good-bee. I may never see you
again. Still I love you. Do you find that strange ?
It is so, and the misery is that I must go. Actio,
Euphrosyne, actio."

Then he had run out of his room just as he was,
and to the Yilla Dresda. At the gates he had
waited an hour. At last he entered. His interview
with Euphrosyne has been described.

That day he left, Herbert had gone on an excursion
to Amalfi, and so he had no explanations to make.
He left most of his things with the proprietor.
Fang accompanied him. He reached Naples
almost penniless. He took with him a small drawing,
very precious to him now. It represented a
handful of flowers cast loose on an angry sea.

QUAE MEDIC AMENTA NON SAN ANT, FEKRIJM SAN AT.

Poverty, grim, dirty, itching, poverty ; this is
what stared the soi-disant heir of all the Hauberks
in the face, and now at last was he to be tried. H is
trials heretofore had been trials of temper, but now
the bitterer trials of want, galliard want were to
prove of what metal he was made.

Whatever may have been this innermost thoughts
on the subject, he certainly revealed no great
emotion as he stepped from the steamer into the
little boat that was to land him at Naples.
Dressed in a pale, green-tinted cashmere suit, the
jacket carelessly buttoned over a striped blue and
white shirt, with a red and blue silk cap on his
black hair, and a silk scarf of the St. Mary's
colours twisted into negligent sailor's knot round
his neck, he looked rather like a leisurely young
Englishman, taking his pleasure in a peculiar
fashion, than like a man whose last resources
were exhausted, who knew not how his next
meal would be got, or where he would lay his head
that night.

Come, Fang," said Charles, jumping lightly
on to the landing, after giving the barcaiuolo
eight times his fare, in his Hauberk, noblesse
oblige faculty.

Charles was never happy but when he had a

cigarette between his teeth, and as he found his
case empty, he strolled up to the Debito in the
Toledo, where the Ferme better qualities are sold,
and bought a box at five francs.

With these and a Daily News (price one franc),
and a lemon granite, he passed a pleasant hour in
front of the Cafe de Europe. At about six
o'clock, seeing the carriages go by, Chiaja-wards,
he thought he would take a drive. Two hours
afterwards he was set down again in the Piazza
del Plebiscito with exactly eight sous in his pocket,
feeling very hungry. Fang was taking his evening
meal off a bone he had found. Charles eyeing him
said —

*^ Go shares, Fang." But Fang turned a deaf
ear to his proposal, and Charles remained hungry.

He had not enough money to order a consummation
at the cafe, and could not thus enter, and so
went and sat down on the steps of the Eoyal Chapel
to await his destiny.

Meanwhile Charles began to experience sensations
which he had never felt before. Cold
and hunger. We often talk of being " fearfully
cold," or " awfully hungry," but the immediate
prospect of allaying our suffering deadens it very
much. When there is no such prospect, then, indeed,
is cold fearful, and hunger awful. But still
he sat on, trying to string together some rhymes
on Euphrosyne.

Night came on, and for very cold he was obliged
io rise and walk about. Whither? No hotel
would take him in without baggage, he could not

go into a restaurant and act Mungo, and he was
sufficiently worldly to know that English Consuls
and other representatives of Her Britannic
Majesty are never ^' prepared to enter into your
case to-night, hut will take it into consideration,
the fee being' &c., and that foreign chaplains
want to know when last you attended Holy
Communion at their chapel before helping you.

I will walk about all night," said Charles.

It began to rain. He turned up his collar, and
lit a cigarette. The rain put it out. As he turned,
very hungry now, into the Strada del Molo, an
old hag came up, and with the usual preface of
Maori di fan," entreated his help. He went on.
She followed him.

Oh, beautiful gentleman, Oh, rich minor, help
poor Maria, for the love of your Excellency's
patron saint."

Poor Maria," said Charles, smiling, '^ will you
change purses with me ? "

But poor Maria did not understand, and continued
her doleful plaint. She really seemed in
great distress.

Charles plunged his hand into his pocket and
gave her five sous, saying —

"Poor Maria ! you are now richer than I."

Behind the Molo, or pier of Naples, lie some of
the poorest houses of that impoverished town. It
is here that the lazzaroni lie out the night, and
it is here that all the rogers of the quays congregate.


In this quarter Charles had now come. It was

ten o'clock at night, and lie had tasted nothing all
day but his first slight breakfast and a lemon corbett.
He was, in all truth, 'lawfully " liiingry.
He happened to pass a wretched hovel on the
window of which was traced in red letters,
Trattoria della Marina. He stopped and looked
at it. The door opened and a beggar lad was
flung out into the street with a Ya Birho f At the
same time an odour of hot maccaroni filled
Charles's nostrils, and, loathsome as the place
looked, he could not resist any longer and entered.

The room was a dirty, dark place, with a range
at the further end, were a large cauldron full of
maccaroni was cooking. A few filthy tables formed
all the accommodation for the guests of the Trattoria
della Marina.

The "place was crowded with beggars eating their
souls worth of the farinaceous delight out of
wooden basins, which were chained to the wall.
Some used their hands to convey their food to their
mouths, others, in true Neapolitan style, had left
their basins on the table, and plunging their faces
into the contents, seized a portion of the stringy .
food with their teeth, threw their heads back and
swallowed it.

The padrone came up to Charles, who ordered
three sous' maccaroni. The man then went to
the cauldron, fished out three handfuls with his
hands, brought them in a basin to Charles, who
had taken his place at one of the tables, poured it
into a basin which a beggar had just used, and
wished Charles " Burn' appetites'

Charles was going to begin, when the proprietor
placed his dirty hand on the food, saying, '' You
pay in advance." Charles felt in his pocket and
turned hot and cold. He had only two sous left.
He told the padrone.

Fa niente," said he, and took a handful of the
maccaroni out of the basin which he transferred
to the cauldron.

Charles shut his eyes and began to eat, and so
hungry was he that he finished the whole of his
portion, and enjoyed it too !

Having finished his repast, Charles went out into
the street again, feeling a greasier, yet a happier
man. It had cleared up, and the moon shone
down clear on the muddy, garbage-covered streets.
Truly old Naples presents a wonderful sight, and
in few other places, I think, does one meet with
such narrow streets, bounded by houses which
count twelve, thirteen, and fourteen stories.

It was while walking about here that Charles
began really to recognise the depths of poverty.
The cabaret he had just left was poverty in all
conscience, but it represented Poverty having
something. What he saw here showed him that
even amongst the poorest there are great lines
and degrees, that a man possessed of three-farthings
is relatively better off than the man who
has nothing, than a king is better off than the
possessor of the three-farthings. Here he saw
Poverty having nothing ! nothing ! nothing !

There lay a woman lying half in the gutter, her
head pillowed on the damp kerbstone while large

rats chased each other over her muddy form, or
fought, squealing, for the possession of a mildewed
cabbage leaf, that had been blown from a heap of
garbage on to her mud-stained breast. Here sat
a man, dressed only so as to make his nakedness
more visible, filling his empty body by munching
a piece of melon rind. Huddled up in another
corner lay three boys, two of whom were absolutely
naked, the third had put his little legs into
the arms of an old coat. Across the road lay a
dead man ; further on a dead cat, while a strangled
dog to the right completed the trio. The rats were
busy about all three, but gave the man the preference.
The pavement was literally one mass of
filth, mud, vegetables, blood, animal refuse, all
pounded together, and steaming with the rain that
had lately fallen. Save for a little oil lamp at the
corner of the street, burning before an image of
the Madonna, who, apparently consoled by the
motto carved on the stone beneath —

He Hath Filled the Hungry with Good Things,

was beaming over the foul sight, the moon was
the only light that lit this mournful scene.
Charles, sickened, left it. Fang, in his element
among the I'ats, was prone to stay.

Where am I to sleep to-night ? '^ said Charles,
two hours later, as he sat on a bench outside the
Yilla del Populo, watching the ox-drawn carts,
heavily laden with all kinds of market produce,
labour along the roads into the centre of the town.
Somebody, passing behind him at the moment.

stopped. Charles was too sleepy to notice him.
The man went on again.

How cold and wretched it is, is it not, Fang?
but I fear we must make a night of it here on this
stone bench," continued Charles, rising to stretch
his limbs, aching with fatigue and cold. As he
stood up, he saw opposite to him, a coloured lamp
on which was written —

Qui si doria.'

'' Any shelter in a storm," thought Charles,
making for the door ; then he stopped, and sorrowfully
returned to his seat. He remembered. He
had not even the price of a bed in yonder refuge.

Qui si doria," continued he, stretching himself
out on the bench, '^ unless a gendarme comes

Tip."

As he was laying himself out on the bench the
jingling of some coins roused him. He jumped
np, and saw a few coins lying on the pavement.
Fivepence in all.

Without stopping to think whence they came, or
whom they belonged to, but registering a mental
I O U to the profit of their former owner, Charles
took them, walked across the street and entered
the refuge.

Can I sleep here ? " he asked of a woman who
met him on the stairs.

Si, Signer, there's room in number 5."

Can my dog come in ? "

VOL. II. K

No."

'' Then I can't."

'' Stay, if you pay for the dog you may bring*
him.^'

How n?ucli a bed ? "
A franc each."
*' I will give yon twopence."
"Agreed."

The ^voman led him to a long, low room, whereabout
thirty men and boys were lying asleep on a
row of mattresses, covered with filthy blankets.
They were all huddled together for warmth, but
the woman found Charles a place. Fang was
relegated to a corner. The woman bade Charles
stroke himself down before lying down. She gave
this order to every customer. For Neapolitans
she was perhaps right. Charles did not take her
meaning. He lay down, feeling too tired to be
ashamed, and was soon fast asleep.

It would take too long to tell how Charles fared
during the rest of the week ; suffice it to say that
by pawning his watch, and a few other gold
trinkets which, he had about him, he managed to
live. During this time be was not inactive, and
firmly resolved not to pester his few friends for
help, he set about to try to find employment. TMs
was almost impossible.

He at first thought of giving English lessons,
and indeed went to a registry office for that purpose.
He was, however, discouraged by the proprietor,
who said, " At Naples we eat and drink,
and don't learn English. We are too lazy."

He would not go as a domestic servant, he preferred
to starve. At last he found work, curious
employment, forsooth, for an Oxford undergraduate,
to row a boat for hire, but this was what
Charles did, and he did it well too, his Oxford
training helping him in the rowing, ani creating
much envy among the other barcaiuoli. By this
employment he earned about seven francs a day,
enough to keep himself and Fang. He rented a
small room in the Strata Medina for twenty francs
a month, and ate his meals al Fresco, thus, perforce,
tasting the poverty to which he had previously
resolved himself. I do not know if he
was happy all this time, but he looked remarkably
well, and the exercise and fresh air freshened
his face up and made him handsomer than ever ;
indeed, he looked so well, and made such a
picturesque appearance in his quaint costume,
that he got more custom than many of his
colleagues. His pride — well, he had swallowed
that ; and though he felt the Hauberk tradition
as strongly as ever, deadened all peevish remonstrances
that he sometimes made to himself.

One day, business being very slack, he was
standing in the glorious sunshine warming himself
and smoking, leaning against the custom-house,
when he heard himself addressed in Italian.

I have found you — come."

He looked up ; it was a stranger who had
addressed him. Ie stranger was rather tall, and
dressed in the negligent way which artists sometimes
affect. He had very dark flowing hair, large

rolling eyes, and rather an oriental type of feature,
and a most intelligent and interesting expression.
He wore spectacles, which seemed to burn with the
fire that flashed from his magnificent eyes,

I have found you," he repeated ; " come."

Whither ? " answered Charles in Italian.
^' Does the gentleman want a row ? "

'^ 'No" answered the stranger in English, " nota
row, my friend. I want you. Come," he continued,
" I will speak to you, but not here. Let
us go into that cafe. There, what will you
take ? "

"Your meaning," said Charles.

You shall have that," said the artist, " but
what else ? "

Listen," continued he, when he and Charles
had been served with a cool drink each, " I want
to tell you something. Will you sit as a model tome
? "

Charles rose and said indignantly —

'' Yes, because you see me among a herd of
swine you take me for one too ; because you see
my hands rough and hardened you take me for a
common fellow, who wishes to pick up money as
best he can. I have to work to live, but the work
you offer is an insult to me. I am Charles
Hauberk."

"You will not refuse me," said the artist
gently. " I meant no insult. Were you the
archangel Gabriel himself I should ask you. Do
you know that 1 have a picture to paint, a picture
that is to excel every picture yet painted, a picture

that shall be hereafter a landmark in a barren
wilderness, and shall rise from out the desert of
to-day's art like a pyramid amid the sands. I
have to redeem the nineteenth century."

You have a great work to do," said Charles
bitterly.

"Yes, but I will do or I will die. I will be
with Rafael and Botice'li or I will be not at all;
and I have in my head what, if worked out, will
give a place near his side, near Rafael's side.
This is what I want you to help me to do""

A thorough man of the world," said Charles,
'^ might find your proposal not quite disinterested."


"With the world of to-day," answered the
artist, ''I have nothing to do. I feel as if
I was not of it, or in it. 1 want to do this
work, and then I do not care what comes of me.
Listen : I have to paint the Archangel
Gabriel himself. The idea came to me one day
as I walked the plain of Marathon alone. I do
not know why the inspiration came to me there ;
perhaps that standing where my ancestors did
such noble deeds I felt inspired to do likewise
and my victory, for I will conquer, will be as great
as theirs, single-handed I will put the barbarians
to flight, these beer-jug, race-day artists of to-day,
who call themselves sons of art, but whose works
are mere smears on wasted canvas, whose art,
be it, never rises above photography, indeed
never rises so far, and who personify vulgarity
for the vulgar. These genre-painters, let

them paint signboards for their living; I will
paint archangels, or I will die. Now, vivid as
my impression of the mighty angel is I
must have a model, and to find one who
would in any way be suitable I have traversed
nearly the whole earth. I have ransacked the
quarters where models congregate in London,
Paris, Rome, Berlin, in fact everywhere ; I have
sought my prototype amongst the peasants of the
Ionian and the Shetland Islands, in Zealand and
Corfu, in Brazil and Putney, but I have never
found what I sought till I found you. I'ellow-
worker, will you help me ? "

You flatter me in offering me a share in so
certain a victory. I fear I have little of the angel
in me."

Come''

And holding him tight Kallandros the artist led
Charles to a carriage, and they drove away.

At the studio, Kallandros bade Charles strip
and pose, and set to work in all haste to fill in the
outlines of his sketch.

Have you any sorrow ? Have you anything to
make you indignant ? Have you any enemy ? "
asked Kallandros after a while.

Then Charles's rage burst out —

"Enemy! " he cried. " The world. My enemy,
the whole, whole world, the bearded men the
smooth-faced women. I hate them all. They lie
of me ; they insult me daily."

"Yes, yes' said Kallandros in the greatest
trepidation lest Charles should forget his anger.

for the fierce expression of his face and his dilating
eyes produced the very effect that KallanJros
wanted. '' The world is insolent, I know."

Insolent ! " said Charles, " it is a mass of insolence
! The son of nobody. Grocers, drapers,
sink-lifters, all say that of me. Filius nullius. Nobody's
son, or the son of the mob. The offspring
of the canaille'

"Ah, the ca7iaiUe" said Kallandros, working
with all his might, '^ they claim you as their son
do they? Here, take this sword and hold it
thus."

Yes, see me here an artist's model, see me
there rowing paunchy bourgeois at two soldi a
head, see me there squabbling with tipsy fishwives
or English tourists for my wage, and then
say if my life is not one of perpetual insult."

You are a gentleman by birth of course ? "

No, I tell you, I am nobody's son. I am no
gentleman."

"There," said Kallandros, " I have finished; it
is enough.'^

'' Now offer me money," said Charles, " and
complete it."

My poor fellow," said the artist kindly,
*' whatever your suffering may be, and your indignation
can arise from no small suffering, do not
mind. If you despise the world, rise above it.
Else from dirty materialism to art. You may bean
artist, and not know how to draw a line ; you
may be a poet, and never have rhymed one word
to another. But for this perception of the beautiful

all men are equal, from emperors down to
the filthy crowd where first I saw sou. Leave
them and join the bright choirs of beautiful souls,
and happiness will come to you. Here," continued
he, drawing a beautiful sapphire ring from his
finger, " take this as a souvenir of me.^'

I can offer you no souvenir in exchange," said
Charles.

This is my souvenir of you," said Malian drop,
pointing to the canvas.

At this moment the servant entered and said
that two gentlemen wished to see Mr. Kallandros.

Who are they? " asked the artist.

"I do not know," said the servant." "Two
well-dressed gentlemen. They particularly wish
to see you."

Let them enter," said Kallandros.

Charles, who had not finished dressing, deprecated,
but it was too late. Kallandros had forgotten
that it was no ordinary model he had with,
him.

The door opened and there entered —

The Chevalier de la Vigne and Mr. Mangles !

With a cry of shame Charles gathered his
clothes about him, dashed the sapphire ring on
the ground, and fled from the room.

It was too late, and as he was rushing down
the passage, he heard Mangles say in his vulgar
English —

"Well, here's a jolly come-down; Benson an
artist's model, eh ? "

To which the Chevalier added —

"And he has had the presumption to shake
hands with Alphonse de le Yigne, and to sit at the
same table as Placide, Baroness de Bienaimee. Ld
canaille ! "

QUAE Ferrum NON SAN AT, IGNIS SAN AT.

^ '' What medicines cannot cure, iron cures ; what
iron cannot cure, fire cures." So said Hippocrates.
It is by our failings that we suffer most, for, as
these always prove stumbling-blocks to us in our
path of life, we learn that our sufferings come
most often from them. Sometimes, but rarely,
we are sufficiently wise to draw benefit from the
hard knocks they cause us to receive ; oftener we
only tighten our lips, shrug our shoulders, and
from very obstinacy continue to foster what we
know will bring us pain and punishment.
Medicines, hot irons, and fire are all successively
applied by the world to cure us, and nearly always
fail, for corporal and mental maladies have little
in common beyond producing pain. Each application
either cures us or intensifies our malady.

How was it with Charles ? Surely his pride had
been attacked so severely as to make him wish to
abandon it. Look at the graduated tumbles it had
received — his leaving Oxford with the attending
circumstances, the different rebuffs he had received
from the commonest of people, the suspicion he
had been met with everywhere, the final, total
collapse he had suffered in purse, his night amongst
the poorest of the poor, sleeping in one bed with

the outcasts and offscourings of society, his forced
menial employment, and finally his being found
posing for an artist by these two men, whom he had
always treated as positive inferiors.

As he himself said, as he got back into the
street —

What further humiliations can there be forme
? I have drunk the cup to its dregs."

And then he sorrowfully fell a-thinking of his
life, of what he might have made of his past, of
his dreadful present, and of the future which
presented no hope, and at last he saw how much
of wilfulness and folly he had to reproach himself
with.

I have brought all this on myself,'^ he cried
bitterly, sinking on to a seat by the roadside, and
burying his face in his hands. " I have broken
my life."

What was he to do ? The life he had led so far
during the last week could surely not last. He
could not bring himself to the prospect of always
rowing for a livelihood ; he, with his brain teeming
with vitality and straining always after fuller,
ampler knowledge, to live always a machine ! And
yet there seemed nothing else for him to do. He,
who had hoped some day to overcome all obstacles,
and place on his head again the coronet which he
claimed as his own, to earn his livelihood always
by sowing a boat. The option was starvation.
N<?w that the novelty and the romance of his
position had worn off, how very sorry it seemed.
And then, strong and lithe as he was, he was not

A BARTERED HONOUR.

strong enough to bear continually the hot noonday
sun, and the endless, severe toil, that the
clumsy, heavy boat inflicted on him. He had
swallowed his pride, yes, indeed he had, and had
for the time being cheerfully done the work that
had come to his hand, with a strength and courage
that surprised even himself.

For what young English gentleman, blue-blooded
and refined, would, taken from a comfortable and
refined life, from an obsequious crowd of servants,
from the society of intelligent men and refined
women, be able to buckle themselves down to the
coarse, hard, undignified life of a common ferryman,
and know how to take the copper coins they
earned with grace. Charles had done this, but he
felt he could do it no more. But what was he todo?
Charles lighted a cigarette.

Just then somebody ran up to him, crying — •

My dear fellow, I've found you at last."

It was Herbert Lovell.

Charles was not very pleased, but he took Herbert's
hand.

Why, Hauberk," continued he, " what have
you been doing ? Money bothers, eh ? Well, you
know, you ought to have come to me about that,
and not go away like you did.'^

I have not yet said that I left the Grande
Sentinelle Hotel for financial reasons," answered
Charles.

"Financial reasons? " said Herbert, laughing.
"What stiff terms."

I feel anything but stiff," said Charles, regaining

his good humour under the genial influence
of the American's laugh. " Quite the contrary."

Well," said the Americans " where are sou
staying?"

Strada Medina, No. 9, 8th story, on the back."

*' What are you doing ? "

"Talking to you."

No, but what do you do all day ? "

Eow a boat."

Eow a boat, all day ? In this heat ? "

*' 1 don't row for pleasure, I live by it."

"Nonsense."

Nonsense or not here is my licence, and here
is my number as barcaiaolo, and here is my
tariff."

But you surely don't mean to say you are
forced to do this ? "

I am forced to do nothing, I prefer it to
blacking boots."

Have you no money ? "

Yes, five francs ; I earned them this morning. "

"But that is all nonsense, and can't go on.
Come back with me to Sorrento, and be my
guest."

Your guest, for the rest of my natural life ? "

If you like."

Thank you, you are very kind. I prefer to
row a boat."

"Thanks."

I mean I could not think of accepting your
offer ; I am obliged to work, and do not mind it.
It is only temporary."

Then if only temporary, come and tide your
difficulties over with me."

No, Lovell, don't press me. I am suffering now
the effects of a very great folly, and enjoy my
punishment. I feel it does me good. Do not tempt
me''

But, my dear fellow, how can I see a friend,
and a friend like you, in such a position ? "

Do I look so very miserable ? "

No ; on the contrary, you look remarkably
well. Quite the type of the handsome boatman."

'-' I was taken for the archangel Gabriel just
now.'^

And look it. But do listen to reason."

"I do ; I listen to my own reason, and I prefer
to work to increasing ray obligations to you. If
you want to befriend me recommend your friends
to patronize my boat."

Herbert renewed his invitation, but Charles was
firm. At last Herbert asked him to accompany
him to the post-office.

Charles answered —

You will be ashamed to be seen with me."

Herbert took his arm in answer.

As they were walking up the street to the postoffice
Herbert told Charles that they had a new
jpensionnaire at the hotel.

Whom ? " asked Charles.

A very objectionable young man's

is his name ? "

Mangles."

Ohj oh, I knew him at Oxford. A brewer's

son, a very unpleasant fellow ; very low and commons'


Both. He knows yon. He has made a lot of
evil talk about you/^

"Indeed. I owe him money. Hinc illa
laerimae."

The post-ofB.ce was now reached, and Herbert
went to o-et his letters. Charles waited for him in
the yard.

Standing thus, the thought came that there
might be something for him. So he went to the
H counter and asked for letters for Hauberk.
There were three, and one which the official would
not give up unless he produced his passport.

I have nones' said Charles.

Then," said the official, " the letter must be
brought to your lodging. Where do you live? "

Strada Medina, No. 9, 8th floor."

The first letter bore the superscription office
"Telegram, Poste Estate." The stamp on the
envelope was several days old.

Charles tore it open. It was a telegram from
Keswick, from Miss Crosthwaite —

^* Charles Hauberk, Post Restante, Naples, Dear
Elias. Received most important communication
from John Elp/dnstone. Am writing to-night.
Dorothy Crosthwaite'^

What could this be ? With beating heart and
trembling hand he tore open the second packet, a,
letter from Dorothy.

Dorothy's letter was short.

'^ Dearest Chaeles,

Things are coming right. Elphinstone
has got back some of your funds, and has acted
honestly. Head his letter. I wish you all success
and happiness, only don't like addressing to Poste
Estates.

Your affectionate

Doeotht/'

"Pes. — Don't forget Spider Harrison and
others."

The third letter was from John Elphin stone,
addressed to Charles at Keswick, and forwarded
"by Dorothy.

"My Dearest Chaeles,

''I have much pleasure in writing to tell
you that I can now in some measure redeem my
promise of restitution, made to you when I was
bound to confess that I had wasted all the money
left with me in trust for you.

Some of the investments which I made in your
name, and which at the period of my bankruptcy
seemed only so much waste paper, have been
looking up lately in a remarkable manner, and are
paying good dividends. At that time they were
absolutely worthless, besides being taken in your
name, they escaped the trustees of my creditors.

"I have managed to save about £3,000, and the
interest of this, from the time since I stopped
paying your allowance, I forward to you through
Miss Crosthwaite. The sum of £3^000 is at your

disposal, and on hearing from you I will either
forward you the papers, or sell out and pay the
money into any bank you please.

I shall be glad to hear from you what arrangements
you propose,

Charlotte and the children are well, and send
love.

Believe me, with sincerest congratulations, my
dear Charles,

Tour affectionate Guardian,

"John Luke Elphinstone.

Devizes."

"What is the matter with you ? " said Herbert,,
who had finished his business, and seeing Charles
reel against one of the courtyard pillars, pale and
breathless, had hurried to his friend's side
'what is the matter ? No bad news ? "

Charles as a pauper, and Charles with an income,,
were two different men.

"No," said Charles, "the heat rather overcame
me, but excuse me, Mr. Lovell, I must go to my
apartment. I have some business to do."

But where shall we meet, Hauberk ? You
know I positively refuse to allow my friend to continue
in the state I found you in. You must come
back to the hotel with me until things are
settled.'^

"My dear Mr. Lovell, do not disturb 3'ourselfon
my account. I have odd whims at times, but do
not, when they are foolish, care to be reminded

VOL. II. L

about them. I pulled a boat out of romantic folly.
Please do not remind me of it, and please do not
repeat an offer I have already declined-with,
thanks. I stall probably return to the Grande
Sentinelle, or perhaps, as the society there is not
of the best, put up at the Victoria or Tramontane
Hotels'

*' Well," said Lovell, "I can't tell you how glad
I am, but, dear Charles, don't indulge in whims of
that sort again. You cannot imagine how distressed
I was to bear yon had left so suddenly, and
under such circumstances. I did my best to find
you, and have not bad a day's quiet till I found
you, but have been running up and down Naples
asking everywhere for you. Do promise me not
to do so again. For you know, Charles," said he,
v^ith tenderness, " we are to be good friends."

"Yes," said Charles, 'but do not let us rehearse
Orestes and Places here. People are
looking. I am extremely obliged to you for your
kind expressions of sympathy towards myself, but,
as I stated, I have business to attend to. An
revoir,'^

And he walked away hastily. Herbert stood
still looking sadly after him. Then turning slowly
away, he said, in a half-whisper, " And I love him
as a brother."

Charles got to the door of the house where he
lived, feeling very excited and happy at the
wonderful and sudden change in his fortunes, and
yet imbued with that essentially human feeling
of irritation that comes to all people whose unjust

sufferings have been removed, thattliis relief came
late and did not at all compensate for the pain he
had endured. But deeper still lay another feeling
that had grown stronger and stronger as he
had walked away from Herbert. Struggling with
this, he stood in silence outside the door of the
house for a few moments, then suddenly he
tightened his belt, and ran at full speed back to
the post-office.

Herbert was no longer there, and, after searching
for him in vain, Charles went to the telegraph
office, and wrote hastily the following short telegram
: —

Bear Herbert I am a d — d cad. Forgive me.

^' Charles'

Having done this, he walked slowly back again,
proud, erect as ever. When he got home he went
upstairs to his room and lay down, and closing his
eyes tried to realise that all his sufferings were
now at an end, and that although still poor he
had a competence, and need never again be exposed
to the insults of a class which he despised. His
head was very hot, and the blood tingled in his
hands, and he felt like a man who had suffered a
severe blow ; but all this almost painful excitement
was, au fond, a pleasant sensation.

He was not to be spared another trial, however.

A knock came to his door, and then entered the
master of the floor he lived on.

«'Sir," said he, "pay me."

Certainly," said Charles, rising. The possessor
of £3,000 would do that.

<^ Pay me my money''

*' How much ? "

A week's rent five francs."

Charles put his hand into his pocket as if to
find his £3,000 there. It was empty. He had paid
away his last sou in telegraphing to Herbert.

Wait a little," said he.

"No I won't' blustered the man. " If you
can't pay five francs you're no good. I knew you
had no money. You row a boat. I don't let my
room to Camorristi ! "

^' You must wait," said Charles, "lam expecting
money to-day.

Aye, aye, from the Queen of Italy, eh ? Who
owes you money ? Carolina I You lie a-bed and
cheat honest folks. Birbone f—^''

I tell you you must wait," said Charles, quietly.

And I tell you I won't, barcaiout ! Pay me
now. You have nothing. I will take your dog.
He will make soup. Dog and figlio cZ' un cane ;
pay me."

I cannot."

I will take your dog."

You will not."

"I will."

"You are an insolent scoundrel," said Charles,
bursting into a torrent of wrath. "A disgraceful,
insolent ruffian."

The man stepped up to him, he was a tall,
powerful fellow, struck him down, and kicked him
on the head. Charles lay stunned, but Fang,
hurling himself at the man, revenged his master.

'and the cowardly Italian ran, shrieking to the
Madonna for help, bleeding from the dog's savage
bites, out of the room.

Whom medicines cure not, iron cures, whom iron
cures not, fire cures. It was indeed consummated.
Their lay beaten on to the ground by a gutter-born
keeper of lodgings, Charles Hauberk, soi-disant
eighth earl of Brookshire, helpless, penniless, and
insulted with the greatest insult. Pride trodden
to the very ground by Dirt and Insolence. The
beggar had beaten the aristocrat. The Italian
thief had lain the English gentleman low.

From his sleep of unconsciousness, Charles was
roused by a series of growls and snappy barks, and
becoming conscious, found himself lying on the
floor. Fang lay by his side with his paws on his
master's chest, and was growling viciously at a
man who had entered the room.

Call your dog off," said the stranger, " or I
will go away."

Who's there ? What is it ? Fang, lie down.
Where am I?"

'' Here, you've got to sign this," said the mana
postman, holding out a receipt book and a
registered letter. " Sharp, too, or I'll go away."

Charles signed mechanically, and took the letter,
then feeling giddy, he walked to his bed and lay
down.

Have you nothing for the postman ? I've
come up eight stories," said the man viciously.

No, come tomorrow, I have no change."

With a " maledetto birbo " the man went away.

As soon as Charles had recovered a little he
opened his letter. It contained a line from
Dorothy, and a cheque on Turnbull & Co. ,
forwarded through Miss Crosthwaite hj
John Elphinstone.

THE Chevalier Proposes.
^' Euphrosyne."

Yes, little mother'

Come here, mj child, I have to talk seriously
with you."

Euphrosyne looked as grave as possible, and
going up to her mother, seated herself on a little
footstool at her feet.

*' What is it, little mother ? "

The Baroness threw one arm round the girl's
fair neck, and smoothing the profusion of brown
hair off her daughter's forehead, began the serious
talk.

Dear child — or rather dear daughter, for it is not
to the child I speak, but to my grown-up young
lady — 3'ou are now old enough to understand what
I have to say to you. You will marry some day " —

Marry, mamma ? Why marry ? "

It is every woman's duty, and certainly the
duty of intelligent and beautiful women, to share
their joys and sorrows with a man. You wil
marry some day ; you are even now being sought
in marriage."

"No, mamma."

Have you never received pressing attentions
from any of the gentlemen who come here — the
Chevalier— "

A merry laugh. interrupted her. Then with, eyes
wide open and a pretty little blush, Euphrosyne
said —

'No, no, mamma, never. You don't think he
wants me, do you mamma ? "

Yes, child, he came to Staples on purpose. '^

^' How very silly of him ! Oh, mamma, how
could you think of him. I mustn't marry him,
must I?"

^' There is no must in the matter. You shall
marry whom you please. I will never constrain
you, and though my only purpose in life is now to
see you happy, I would rather see you condemned
to the chill of eternal spinsterhood than marry
you to anyone against your wish. But what I
want to say to you is not this."

The Baroness opened a writing case that lay on
the table, and took from it a sealed packet, on
which was written in faded ink —

To he read to my darling daughter , Euphrosyne,
on her eighteenth birthday,"

Euphrosyne caught at the letter, and then with,
her eyes filling with tears, said in a low voice —

"It is poor papa."

"Yes, child,-''' answered the Baroness very
gravely, and repressing a sigh, "it is from your
father. He wrote this on the eve of the fatal day,
when he died in defence of his honour, and gave
it to me, bidding me follow the direction, should
anything happen to him. I have told you the
rest," said the Baroness breaking down.

Yes," said Euphrosyne, rising to her feet, and

Tj:issiiig away the tears that had welled up in her
mothers eyes. "Yes I am proud of papa.
Notre honneur avant notre vie, is our motto, and
he died for that."

After a little while the Baroness proceeded —
To-day is your eighteenth birthday, and to-day
I will break this seal and read your father's
dying words, his last command to you."

'' Stay, mother, tell me. Did papa love me very
much ? "

Yes, my child."

What did he say to me as I lay in my cradle
that night ? Tell me again."

He bent over you, and kissed you, and kissed
you, and took your little hand in his and said —

' Little daughter, be a true daughter of your
father, be a true Bienaimee.' "

"And ami?"

The Baroness kissed her daughter in reply ;
then she opened the packet and read —

"My Daughter,

"The last words of your father are —
' Marry a gentleman, a man of honour, and he
worthy of him

"My blessing and eternal love be upon you and
with you always.

"Your Father,

GiLLEROY

de Bienaimee.'^

The Baroness then kissed the signature, and
folding the letter up again, gave it to her daughter.

'' When lie gave me that packet years ago,"
she continued, *'he said that he had but one thing
to tell you, for the rest he trusted to me'

Poor little father'' said Euphrosyne tenderly

"Well, now you know his wish. You are to
marry a gentleman."

*' What do you call a gentleman, mamma? "

A man of good family, of untarnished name,
of legitimate birth, who has a full respect in all
cases for the feelings of others, who lives within
his income, and does not endeavour to increase it
by acts unbecoming his position or his honour'
said the Baroness rather pointedly.

Is Arnolfo a gentleman ? " said Euphrosyne,
with a tinge of sorrow in her tone.

"Certainly, certainly, my child," said the
Baroness, quickly, " most certainly."

Who does not endeavour to increase his
income by acts unbecoming his position," said
Euphrosyne, quoting her mother's words. "Is
gambling unbecoming ? "

"N — o," answered Mme. de Bienaimee. "I
think not. All gentlemen gamble ; your father
did. It is a bad habit, but it has caste."

"Well, is de la Yigne a gentleman? "

"Yes, my child, he is. And talking about
Alphonse, I want to tell you what I suspect you
know, that he wants to marry you."

Why do you say so ? "

His uncle, a relation of mine, wrote to me, asking
me if I did not think that a marriage between
you two would be a very good thing."

"Mother," said Euphrosyne gravely, "please
tell jour relation, de la Vigne's uncle, that it
would be a bad thing, a very bad thing."

My child ? "

Yes, mother, you cannot know me if you think
such a thing possible. I do not know much about
men and women, and the ways of the world, but
what I do know, and what I feel as vividly as I
feel my heart beat, is that de la Vigne is no gentleman."


Euphrosyne ! "

^' I have an instinctive horror of the man. A
little while ago, I was quite a child then, I felt I
wanted to laugh at him, now I feel inclined to
run away when I see him'"

Dearest?"

Yes, run away. I think I know him well
enough. I am to marry a gentleman, you know."

Well, child, I said I would in no way constrain
you; and though de la Yigne is very elegant,
dresses well, and has an independent income, I
must say I should like you to become the wife of
a manlier man."

Is Charles Hauberk a gentleman ? "

"No' cried the Baroness, almost angrily.

"Mother?"

No, no, no. In no single point. He is of no
family, of less than no family. He is here under
a false name. He has no money, no income " —

How do you know all this ?" said Euphrosyne.

I have it from a former friend, a creditor, by
the way, of his, that Mr. Man-giles, who has been

staying livres who was presented by Alphonse.
His real name is Benson ; he ran away from
England because lie could not stay there any
longer, because he had made dishonest debts.
He lives as best he can, by adventuring. He
rows boats, he is an artistes model, he does anything
to live."

I am sorry for that," said Euphrosyne, winding
her mother's arm off her neck, and rising to
her feet. " I am very sorry for that, for " —

"Foi "—

'' I love Charles Hanberk, and if I am to leave
you for any man it will be to be with him always.
I love him."

^' But Euphrosyne, this is very wrong. I tell
you what this young man is. Eemember your
father's last words. '■'

To marry a gentleman. He is one."

But, child, I have already told you he is not.
You have heard what I have said."

"I love him."

'you may love him or not, you have no right
to do so. I forbid it — your dead father forbids it."

'' I think Carlo a gentleman."

But he is not. He has a false name ; he does
wrong things — he does common things'

For me he has no other name but — The
Beautiful. In my eyes he does nothing but sing
sweet songs."

He rows a ferryboat one day, he lives in a
princely villa the next, next day he strips and
poses to an artist for hire."

^' Because one day he has no money, the next
he has no strength."

"Euphrosyne, do not argue with me. You
must not think of him."

I think of him only."

'^ But it is wrong, very wrong; he is not of
your chess, of your kind; he is of low birth."

The rose-tree rises from the ground, the lark
springs from the soil."

Aye, untarnished. He is " —

Untarnished too."

No, not untarnished. Tarnished, by no fault
of his own, but still, for all that, far beneath you.-**

How can one so fair be tarnished, mother ? "

'^I cannot tell you. It is unhappy. He is
unhappy."

If he is unhappy, I love him all the more."

Euphrosyne, you force me to say it — he has no
father."

I have none too."

Aye, but you had one, an honourable man."

He is a son of the sunlight, a son of the echo.
I love him."

You shall never marry him."

Then I will never marry at all."

Now, Euphrosyne, do be reasonable."

I am, mamma. It is not I who first talked
or thought of marriage. You speak of it, Bianca
speaks of it, Father Anselmo speaks of it. Everybody
who talks to me says, ' Euphrosyne, when
you are married.' The very beggar woman to
whom I gave a little gift yesterday, invoked blessings

on my marriage. I cannot help thinking
that it is necessity since everybody speaks of it
as certain. I never thought of it before. I thought
I might always live here, and always have you and
Bianca, and alvs^ays be very happy ; but since all
of you have put it into my head, I have accepted
the idea, and it is Charles Hauberk I love's

'' Whatever for ? "

He is good, he is clever, he is sympathetical ;
he loves animals, he loves poetry, and he suffers.
He is very, very handsome, he is a preux chevalier,
he is a poet, and he is unhappy, and then, I love
him."

Euphrosyne, I see you are a child. I have
spoken too soon. You must marry nobody yet.
We will wait."

The Baroness rose, kissed her daughter, and left
the room.

This is how all this had come about. The
Baroness, who had really been prepossessed by
Charles' appearance and manner, and was not
at first indisposed to allow him to take his chance
with her daughter, had been quite changed on
hearing from Mr. Mangles, that indiscreet and
unreflecting chatterer, all the dubious antecedents
of the unhappy young man, and had been
strengthened in her new opinion by hearing from
de la Vigne , who, with the petty spite of weak
and effeminate men, and his childish proclivity to
talk, that characterises men whose brains have
long lain inactive, had, fearing a dangerous rival

ID Charles, revealed to her the position in which
he had found him in Mr. Kallandros' studio.

Now the Baroness, though a very kind woman,
had innate and irradicable opinions on social
matters ; and it was with real pain and surprise
that she had learnt how near her daughter she had
allowed this young man, who was nothing better
than an adventurer, to be ; and she had determined
to take the first opportunity to put her daughter
on her guard, and was most distressed to learn
how far the matter had gone. She was resolved,
however that it should go no further; and, though
her heart ached for her daughter and for the
young Englishman, whom she sincerely pitied, as
she did it, she bade the servant give admittance
to the Yilla Dresda no more to Mr. Charles Hauberk.


Euphrosyne, after her mother had left the room,
remained standing a little while, lost in thought;
then she put her hand into her heaving bosom, and
drew from the innermost folds of her dress a little
bunch of withered flowers, the same that she had
taken off the altar of Venus, the love-offering
placed there by Charles.

These she laid on the table, and by their side,
the faded letter that the dear hand of her father
had written. She kissed both very tenderly, but
her warm lips seemed to cling longer to the flowers.
Then she said very sorrowfully —

Poor Carlo, I love you still, whatever you be,
and whatever be your faults, and I will love you
always""

"The Chevalier de la Vigne' said Giovanni,
throwing open the door of the room.

The Chevalier had come to have a final interview
with Euphrosyne, and claim her for his bride.
He had dressed himself so elegantly that he had
no doubt whatever of the result. He was rather
anxious, all the same, for that mornings post had
brought a most pressing letter from that old
courtier, his uncle, urging him to finish his mission
and get engaged to Euphrosyne at once, adding a
postscript that as the shares of the Compagnie
Generale des Pots-au-feu Parisians were so low,
and that as he had almost all his fortune invested
in the said Pots-au-feu, he should be unable any
longer to help the young man, and that it was
therefore his imperative duty to secure Euphrosyne
and her dot as soon as possible.

"Good morning, Euphrosyne," said the Chevalier,
trying to look affectionate.

Good morning, cousin," said Euphrosyne.

I have come, mademoiselle, to speak to you."

"I hope so. You would not come to be silent""

What esprit you have' said the Chevalier,
looking with admiration at her.

I did not mean to show any," said Euphrosyne.


But you did, you did, you did."

"I didn't, I didn't, I didn't."

"I love you, Euphrosyne," said the Chevalier,,
bringing it out at once.

Euphrosyne started ; she had never taken him
au series. Then she said very gravely —

Why do you tell me this ? ''

That posed the Chevalier for a minute.

Not as a compliment I hope' continued the
girl, drawing Charles' flowers to her side.

No' said the Chevalier ; " to offer you compliments
would be like offering a pair of well cut
pantaloons to Dusautoy, or a bottle of jockey club
to Hesse and Lubin. No ; I simply mentioned
the fact, to pave the way to another statement."

Euphrosyne's hand tightened over Charles
flowers. She remained silent.

For," said the Chevalier, sitting down, after
first drawing his trousers an inch above his ankles
to prevent them creasing at the knees, " I have a
statement to make. I have seen many things and
wanted many things. I have seen rises and falls
ambition and love. I have seen a woman's downward
progress from Worthies to the Boulevard des
Italiens, from the Boulevard des Italiens to the
Louvre, from the Louvre to the Bon Marche, from
there to the Place Clichy, and so on. T have also
seen men whose sole ambition in life it was to find
fiacre No. 1, and drive in it. Yes, I have seen
many things."

Do you love me for that ? " said Euphrosyne,
smiling in spite of herself, at the absurd talk.

I will explain," said the Chevalier. " My
similes may be hard to understand. You are a
woman whose progress will be upwards ; you will
reach Worth some day. I am a man who has
higher ambitions than to ride in cab No. 1. Do
you understand? "

VOL. II. M

'^ 'No more than if you spoke in Turkish' said
Euphrosyne.

'''I mean that we are not the ordinary people
whose downward lives and foolish ambitions I
have described; I mean we are suited for each
other."

*^ What do you mean ? ''

I mean that I want you to marry me. Will
you ? "

Euphrosyne rose pointed to the door, and
shouted rather than said —

"No."

^' Et pourquoi pas ? " said the Chevalier.

*' Because no, no, no. Never."

*' Are you already engaged ? "

'^ You have no right to ask me''

I ask it as a favour."

'' Well, yes."

^' To whom ? Surely not to that young Englishman
? "

*' I do not answer more questions."

Surely not to that young man who looks as if
he once had credit with his tailor."

'' I do not answer."

But surely you are not serious in refusing my
offer?"

Offer ? What do you offer ? "

My heart, my figure, hem — my name."

Please, cousin, don't say anything more about
it. I cannot listen to you. Please leave me."

I will write to you from Paris."

"You will write, I hope, and I hope you will be

very happy, but don't ask me again, for I cannot,
I really, really cannot."

The Chevalier bowed, left the room, and, going
to the telegraph office, telegraphed to his uncle :

Pots-aufeu or no Pots-au-feu, send the price of a
Pullman and accessories hack to Paris,

That night he received a telegram from his
uncle ; one single word, dating from the Bourse :

Dot?

However he answered it, he got the money and
left for Paris next day, remarking to himself as he
got into the railway carriage at Naples — " Yes, I
decidedly prefer Naples in La Muette de Portico,
Dusautoy is a blagueur after all."

CAN THE LEOPARD CHANGE HIS SPOTS ?

The conversation detailed in the last chapter,
with Euphrosyne's subsequent interview with the
Chevalier de la Vigne, took place one day after
Charles's change of fortune. This young man was
still in Naples, for Messrs. Turnbull & Co. would
not trust him as far as £270. Bankers often wil
trust you for £10, but not for £100, ^.e., in their
eyes your honesty is worth no more than £10,
which reflection is not always very flattering. They
had sent his cheque to their London agent, and had
advanced him the sum at which they appraised his
commercial value, namely, 500 francs, and with
this Charles was living in splendour at his old
quarters, the Hotel des Etrangers.

He did not appear at Sorrento for two weeks,
and meanwhile the Baroness had received from the
Baron de la Vigne, the uncle of the little Chevalier,
a rather angry note : —

Paris,
Cafe de la Bourse.
Dear Placide,

'why did you not tell me before that
Euphrosyne was already engaged ? It would have
saved me much expense and my nephew much
anxiety and trouble. The poor jargon is very
much distressed indeed, and has shaved his

whiskers and has quarrelled with his tailor. Had
I known that jour daughter was the fiancee of
another I would, of course, never have sent
Alphonse out to Naples. I think it strange of
you not to have told me.

deceive, mj cousin, the expression of my very
high consideration.

Yours,
'' Isidore.
^' Baron de la Vigne,
Ex-Courtier of the Bourse, &c., &c."

As soon as the Baroness received this note she
called Euphrosyne, and showing it to her said —

Euphrosyne, what does this mean? Did you
tell your cousin that you were already engaged ? ''

"Yes, mamma."

"Is it true?"

"Yes."

To whom ? "

To my father's words."

"How?"

He bade me marry a gentleman. Alphonse
was no gentleman."

"Euphrosyne?"

"No. No gentleman would have acted as he
did. He owed his life to Charles Hauberk, and
yet he came to you telling tales about the Englishman."


He did quite right. He opened my eyes to
the great danger of allowing this young man to
be near you."

What danger is there ? "

'you know he admires you — that is the
danger."

*why?"

Because admiration leads to love. Love often
awakens responsive love. You might have learnt
to love this young man this adventurer, and then
there would have been interminable annoyance to
both of us."

'^ I tell you I do love him."

'^ And I tell you, Euphrosyne, you must not."

Mother, you said I might choose as I pleased.
I have chosen."

Your father's dying words forbid you. Charles
Hauberk is no gentleman."

"I cannot see why."

Because, as I have already told you, he is of
low birth."

I am a Republican, you know, mother."

*^ Be it, the Republic does not excuse immorality
; the Bonnet Rouge does not palliate
disgrace."

I cannot understand you when you talk of immorality
and disgrace with reference to this young
man."

But they both exist."

Euphrosyne grew pale, the fire flashed from her
eyes, and drawing herself up she said very slowly
and very gravely —

You are unjust."

My daughter ? "

Yes, my mother, you are unjust. You are
more, you are cruel. You are worldly. How often

have joH told me to hate the cold, cruel tenets of
the world ? How often have you professed to
despise its rules ? but now, where they serve you,
you do not shrink from their coldness, you do not
wince at their cruelty. I think 1 understand you.
I am old enough and I have read enough to know
what you mean when you speak of his disgrace,
which is not his fault ; of his immorality, where
he is not immoral. You allow that it is not his
fault, you allow that no blame is his, and yet you
join with the world in condemning, contemning
and rejecting him. In what are you better than
the world ? "

The Baroness listened quietly, casting glances
of love and admiration at her beautiful daughter,
while she spoke so bravely. Then she rose and
kissed her, saying —

No better than the world, my child, no better ;
but brought up to certain principles we cannot
reject them. They form part of us, and we can no
more unlearn them than we can unlearn the rules
of social etiquette."

But you see their injustice ? "

*' Yes, as clearly as I see the absurdity of several
social rules. Still I cannot practise according to
my perception in either case."

"Why not?"

Because, first, I am Placide, daughter of
General the Baron de Granmont; secondly,
widow of the Baron de Bienamee ; thirdly,
because I am known in society ; finally, because T
am your mother."

Because you are my mother you should let me
be happy ; because you are known in society you
should show society that it is wrong ; because you
.are the Baroness de Bienaimee, nee de Granmout,
sou should have ideas above those of the people's

By reason of my position I can not see you
united to a man beneath you in caste, utterly removed
from your class."

But he may rise above it'

He cannot. A negro can never become
white."

"But a pariah may cleanse himself."

^' A pariah of society, never."

'' Why ? "

I don't know, it has always been so."

'' It has always been so. That is what the nobles
answered to the complaining peasants before '91.
They rose, and cast off the shackling ' Whatever
is, is right.' "

The Baroness did not feel herself able to continue
the argument. She knew that she could
never be brought to see the matter in this light,
she knew that she could never allow her daughter
to marry an illegitimate child, and she saw also
how liberally-minded Euphrosyne had grown, so
she rose, saying —

I cannot argue with you, Euphrosyne. Remember
that I am your mother."

With that she withdrew.

'^ I do, 1 do," said Euphrosyne, sinking into a
chair. " But I love him, I love him, I love him."

Euphrosyne ? "

Bianca Had entered and stood in the doorway,

*' Yes, Bianca," said Euplirosj-ne,, rising.

*' What troubles you''

Nothing."

But, little sister," said Bianca, coming forward
and throwing her arm round the girl's neck,
you are sorry. I see tears in your eyes. What
grieves you? "

"■ That the pariah may never cleanse himselfe

« What pariah ? "

The pariah of society. Mother told me so."

I met the Baroness just now. She seemed
froissee. Do you know what I heard her tell
Giovanni."

'what?"

'' She said, ' Remember, Giovanni, that Mr.
Hauberk is never to come here again.' "

"Bianca?"

Yes, Euphrosyne ; I was so surprised, and so
sorry. I thought the Baroness liked Charles very
much."

Bianca looked perplexed. She was not quite so
wise as her friend, and, to tell the truth, did not
suite know what a pariah was. The word was
connected vaguely in her mind with white oxen
and jungles.

Listen to me, Bianca," continued Euphrosyne,
drawing her friend down to her side on the sofa.
'' I want to talk to you. Suppose your mother was
alive, and suppose you loved her very much, and
suppose you also loved a man very much, and that
your mother did not like this man because of his

social position, and refused to let you love him ;
but that you did love him very much '' —

I should love him all the mores said a voice
at the open window.

The girls started and turned. It was Charles
Hauberk.

The young man had just returned from Naples.
He had got his money, and was quite happy again.
He had come straight to the Villa Dresda ; and
hearing voices in the drawing-room had come upto
the open window.

''I beg your pardon, ladies' he continued,
bowing, " I have only come back from Staples today,
and I came straight here to pay you my respects.
I saw the drawing-room window open, so
I came up to it," then, seeing the deep blush on
Euphrosyne's cheeks, he added hastily, "I have
heard but little of what you said. I hope my joke
does not hurt you."

Euphrosyne was about to reply, when Giovanni
entered with a letter. He saw Charles before he
retired.

Bianca looked at Euphrosyne, and said in a low
voice —

^' What will the Baroness say ? "

Charles was continuing his apologies for his ill-timed
appearance, when Giovanni, coming round
to where he stood, told him that the Baroness desired
to speak to him at once.

Certainly," said Charles, " with pleasure."

Giovanni showed him into the Baroness's private
sitting-room, and asked him to sit down.

Presently Madame de Bienaimee came into the
room. Charles bowed to her; she motioned him
to sit down again.

She seated herself , and taking up some embroidery
began to work, as if perplexed how to
begin.

Charles said, " Giovanni told me you wanted to
speak tome."

"Yes," answered the Baroness.

Then, after a pause, she handed the piece of
embroidery that she had been working at to
Charles. It was a design of the Bienaimee arms,
worked on canvas, for a cushion.

She said, " Can you read that motto ? "

Yes," said Charles. " Notre honneur avant
noire vie. A beautiful motto."

It is a beautiful motto," said the Baroness.
Do you believe that in some families the motto
of their coat of arms is the principle of their
lives ? "

Certainly' said Charles, " though in my case
I am afraid I do not follow our motto. ' For
King and State '' is the Hauberk motto, and I am
rather Republicans

words of Charles' rather helped the lady
out of her difficulty, for she felt rather angry at
his apparent duplicity in styling himself a
Hauberk, when she knew his name to be Benson,
and thinking more of him as an impudent impostor,
she felt that she need not use so much delicacy
towards him in saying what she had to say.

In our family," she answered *^ in the

Bienaimee family , honour has always been held
before life. My husband died to defend his
honour."

Charles bowed.

He was the last Bienaimee," continued the
Baroness, " and his daughter is the only remaining
representative of our family. She is still very-young,
and perhaps not circumspect. I have therefore
to watch over her."

Charles' heart beat high. He waited for the
Baroness to continue.

I have to see, also, that those principles whic h
have been part and parcel of the family ever since
Charles Viii. allowed them to engrave them in the
form of a motto on their coat-of-arms, are duly
respected by my child."

"What can be coming?" thought Charles, ashe
bowed once more in acquiescence.

Now honour proceeds from within, and comes
from without. The honour of a family while
resting on its deeds, will not be complete unless
that family is respected. Respect from the world
is also the honour of a family. Do you understand
my meaning? "

Perfectly," answered Charles.

I have therefore to see that the respect in
which the Bienaimee family has for so many centuries
been held by the world is not weakened or
destroyed, and that this is not brought about by
the unconsidered action of a thoughtless child."

I do not think such a thing possible," said
charles,

But it is possible, it is probable, it is imminent,"
said the Baroness, nerving herself.

"Am I an accomplice in bringing about so great
a disaster ? '^ said Charles, who at last began to
have a dim perception of the drift of her words.

Not directly'' said Madame de Bienaimee,
wishing to spare him, " but it is with reference
to this matter that I wish to speak to you. I have
to forbid you the house."

Madame ? "

'^I believe you admire my daughter; I know
that she is not indifferent to you. I also know " —

Stay, madame' said Charles, rising to his
feet, his cheeks glowing, and with flashing eyes,
*' I will finish it all for you. You are quite rio-ht.
Your daughter is a Bienaimee, and I am a bastard.
I am worse than that, I am a bastard without
decency. I proclaim my shame from the housetops.
Discontented with hiding beneath the bourgeois
name of Benson, so kindly provided for me
by those who had to discard me, I take the name
of Hauberk, to which I have no right. You are
perfectly right. Then, I am an adventurer. I
made debts and ran away from Oxford. I live by
my wits, now as a ferryman, now as an artist's
model. That is what you wanted to say to me. I
have spared you the trouble."

You put your unhappy case in a very much
worse light than the one I look at it in, my poor
boy," said the Baroness, tenderly. " I am very,
very sorry for your misfortune, I regret that you
should have been led to commit actions unworthy

of a man, but you must allow that, as all this is
so, I am not justified in allowing you to visit my
daughter."

Charles stood still, quite silent, but suffocating
with suppressed emotion.

"You see," continued the Baroness, in a most
kind tone of voice, "that my daughter is the
representative of one of our greatest French
families, and as such must not marry anyone
whose own birth will not bear the strongest investigation.
I have to see to that. The honour
of our family requires it. In time I could overlook
the childish extravagances and errors which
have led to a life of penury, and to work which,
though not disreputable, is not the occupation of
a gentleman. But, as the mother of Euphrosyne,
daughter of Gilleroy de Bienaimee, I cannot overlook
"—

'the bar sinister," said Charles.

"Yes."

You are quite right, madam," said Charles,
bowing. " It is true I love your daughter. This
is an impertinence on my [part. Still, I have read
of a leper who loved, and, they say, he loved welland
truly, and that his love was so beautiful and
pure that the lady forgot his un cleanliness, and
took his hand, and, braving the world, went forthwith
him happy in his love. They even say that
the garb of leprosy hid in him an anger from
heaven. That of course is only a story. I will
go away from here. I will never cross your path
again ; but the leper will love the lady still."

I thought it best to separate you before it
grew too late," said the Baroness. " T am pained
and distressed more than I can say, to see the pain
you suffer. I earnestly pray and hope you will
have a happy life, and become a good, brave man ;
but you must learn to forget my daughter."

I will leave Sorrento to-day," said Charles.

Not on my account," said the Baroness, " there
is no need for that. We are going to Florence fora
season, and when we come back, if you will
promise to be discreet in your behaviour to Euphrosyne,
you will always be welcome to me. For,"
said she, going up to him and laying her hand
tenderly on his shoulder, " you are a gentleman
in spite of all, and a very high-principled one. I
wish things were not so cruel."

Charles took her hand and kissed it. Then he
bowed and went away, well-nigh heart-broken.

Thus ended the interview.

A NEWSPAPER Papa GRAPH.

Anyone reading the London newspapers about this
time, must have remarked, in the police news
columns, the following paragraph : —

"A Singular Case. — At the Mansion House,
yesterday, a woman, giving the name of Esther
only, and refusing to state her age or address,
respectably dressed, was charged before Alderman
Sir Thomas Whatnot, with being a lunatic at large.
On Tuesday morning the defendant stopped a
policeman in Fleet Street, and complained to him
that her husband had stolen her peace of mind.
The officer saw her again later on in the Temple,
and from her demeanour and conversation was
induced to take her in custody for protection's
sake. Evidence was given by Drs. William Ruler
and Joseph Enables, of her insanity. Mr. Snorker,
concealed, said he had known defendant at Exeter
by the name of Jane Smith. She had been always
excitable and eccentric. In answer to the inquiries
of his worship, witness replied that he had known
her in the capacity of laundress. He had met her
in London, and she had told him she was married,
but that her gold locket had gone and she could
not find it. He had taken her to Drs. Ruler and
Enables, who had both certified her to be of
unsound mind. He did this purely out of charity*

Did not know defendant's address at Exeter, or if
she had any friends there. Defendant would not
answer any questions, and Sir Thomas Whatuot
accordingly ordered her to be sent to Peckham
Lodge Lunatic Asylum, where she would be welland
kindly treated'

VOL. II.

HARLOT MOTHER ! I CUESl

Beaten down in heart and spirit, wounded in the
most sensitive part of his sensitive nature, and
doubly wounded by the kind way in which the
truth, which he recognized only too well, had been
put to bim, deprived suddenly of all hope, at the
very moment when hope seemed to be the least
misplaced, stung to the quick by a feeling of
bitter shame, Charles slunk rather than walked
as he made his way out of the grounds of the
Villa Dresda.

Never to see Euphrosyne again, never to watch
her pretty child-like face turned on him with
admiration, never again to have her restless eyes,
which he alone could enchain, fixed with the faint
beginnings of an absorbing love on him, never to
see her smile, never any more to hear her laugh,
never to feel any more that he of all men had the
power to amuse, to interest, to cheer, to charm the
radiant girl that beloved so well, never, never anymore.
No hope, no shadow of a hope.

The black raven, the ministry comic, the blighting
shadow of whose sombre wings had thrown a
perpetual gloom over his life, had croaked forth to
him in tones which there was no mistaking.
*' Never more, never more."

Were it not for the bar sinister that defaces

jour coat-of-arms you would not be unwelcome tome."
This was the gist of the lady's words.

Were it not. Were it not. But it is.

Nothing could undo that, no Papal bull even, no
sign manual of the vicar of Christ could rescind
the excommunication spoken by the world out
against the children of a natural birth.

He could not alter it, nothing could alter it.
Nothing could disprove it.

His father was dead, buried beneath a weight
of marble slabs, whereon, in gilded letters and
sonorous prose, his many virtues, his many worldly
honours were engraved ; whence he could never
rise to claim his son, and say to the poor boy —

This is my well-beloved son, begotten of me,
and no son of the people, no filius nullius.'^

And his mother, she was lost, or if, indeed, she
was living, to find her would be to bring more disgrace
on to himself. Some boorish peasant wench,
may be, or worse, some cheap actress flaunting on
the dirty boards of the stage of some London gaff ;
still boasting to her envious companions of the old
days of her old triumphs, of the noble my lord she
had once enthralled, perhaps now the mistress of
some low vagabond, some infamous souteneur, on
whom she would play off the old wiles, on whom
she would lavish the same smiles, the same caresses,
which had brought the house of Hauberk so very,
very low.

At this thought Charles balled his fist, and cried
in a voice hoarse with passion —
Harlot mother ! I curse you,"

Towards his father, of course, as is the way of
the world J he had no evil thoughts ; he reverenced
his name, the splendour of his ultra-Conquest
ancestry, his well-known character of an old
sporting Tory, of a good landlord, of a brave
gentleman. Lord Hauberk had in his day been
the most popular of all English noblemen, and his
Melton prowess and Paris gallantry had been the
theme of admiring conversation all over the.
kingdom. Patron of the ring, breeder of three
Derby winners, and the best race of fox terriers
that existed, he represented the personified attainment
of the height of worldly ambition, and his
death, leaving no direct heir, had caused much
regret in fashionable circles, who were loth to seethe
splendid manor of Appledean pass into the
hands of a distant cousin, whose claim the
lawyers had had to trace back to the time of
King Charles II., an old philosopher, who hated
fox-hunting, and allowed his keepers to shoot
down sitting pheasants when he wanted game for
his table. His want of issue too was a source of
fashionable regret, for the haute aristocracy contemplated
with melancholy the total extinction of
the grand old family name. The Earldom of
Brookshire was no more, and now shortly the
Barony of Hauberk was to be erased from the
roll of English titles. Nor was this regret an
idle one, for with what disgust do the members of
our aristocracy see the numbers of their peers
daily increased by the shortest of men, and see
coronets which were formerly only distributed for

With fretful thoughts like these did Charles
occupy his teeming mind as he walked away from
the Yilla Dresda, through Sorrento and along the
Massa road. Be loved this road, not so much
for its rare beauty but for the fact that here he
had first been in Euphrosyne's company alone.
Bow long ago that seemed, when he thought of
all the phases of emotion through which he had
passed, and how short, as a span of happiness.
Bow changed too was his position. Then he was
in a desperate state of poverty, and now he had a
fair competence once more, but how willingly
would he have changed his position for the old
adventurous, needy, one, and be once more
allowed to hope, as he had hoped then, that some
day he might find happiness where his happiness
alone lay.

*' Ah," cried he, for the thought came to him
that perhaps Euphrosyne too had turned away
from him, and that she too was one of the
prejudiced ones.

** Yet, oh yet, thyself deceive not,
Love may sink by slow decay,
But by sudden wrench, believe not
Hearts can thus be torn away.

Still thine own its life remaineth,

Still must mine, tho' bleeding, beat,
And the undying thought which paint
Is — that we no more may meet."

And at these words, tears that blotted too the
paper on which the trembling hand first wrote

them, came to his eyes, and in an agony of grief
he threw himself on the bank, and buried his face
in his hands.

Now it so happened that Euphrosyne had chosen
this road for her walk, and presently she came by,
and when she saw Charles lying there she fancied
he was asleep, for he made no movement and still
lay there, his face buried in his hands.

She had a habit of talking aloud what thoughts
occupied her mind, and, as she stood looking at the
form of him she loved, she spake and said ; half
to herself, and half addressing him —

It was here we met, and it is here we have to
part. It was here my heart first burst into life,
and it is here my heart must break. How cruel to
love, and never to know my love has been returned,
and not to be allowed to know, to be taken away
from him, before I have ever heard the real echoes
of his heart, before I have ever felt his kiss, the
kiss I yearn for ; and yet this is to be, for tomorrow
we leave, and I do not know when we return. Poor
boy, I wonder whether he sleeps. Yes, he is asleep,
and there, as I gently remove his hands from his
face I see the marks of tears, and those dear lips
which I so long to kiss are drawn as if in pain.
He has suffered, I know, and at my mother's
hands, at the hands of her I have always loved,
but cannot love so well as I love him. Oh, if I
might lie down by his side, and take him in my
arms, and kiss him, and lie there with him always
on that bed of flowers, with the silvery olive-leaves
overhead for our canopy, and all the beauty of the

-world around tis, and that he might never wake,
but in his dreams whisper my name linked with
some word of love, that I might know the depth
of his heart. Oh, Carlo, Carlo, I love you."

And taking from her dress a flower, it was a
rose, she bent tenderly over him and placed it in
his bosom.

A lady did that once,^' she whispered, " for a
poet whom she knew not, and I do it for one I
know and one whom I love. And it will be my
happiness if he thinks of my token, as did the
blind singer of England."

Then, looking at him a space, with eyes full of
love, and as if hesitating whether to kiss his upturned
face right gently and then to steal quietly
away.

But hush ! he was speaking, speaking in his
sleep—

I love you, I love you. Do you know what
that means ? And the undying thought that
paint is that we no more may meet. Say,
Euphrosyne, the outcast can love, the pariah hasa
heart. You do not believe it. You are but
of the world, but for all that I love — your's
Then he was silent, and Euphrosyne stood with
her hand pressed against her heart.

Suddenly he woke, and after looking vaguely at
the blushing form before him, recognized the girl.

He rose, and bowed very distantly, then he said —

Signora, leave the leper to himself, I carry
infection with me."

You are no leper to me,V said Euphrosyne.

But to your mother I am," answered Charles,
and then, starting forward as driven by an irresistible
impulse, " but I will tell you, lady, I love
you."

Euphrosyne looked straight into his eyes, and
putting out her hand, said very lovingly —

Yes, Carlo, you told me so before. Just now,
you were asleep, you know, you spoke of me. I
could not help listening, could I ? I was happy,
very happy, and I am happy now, for I love you
too, very dearly."

Charles looked round, and, seeing that nobody
was in sight, sprang forward, and taking the
blushing girl in his arms, pressed her passionately
to his heart and covered her face, hands, and neck
with kisses.

My angel, my angel's he cried. " I love you,
and have ever since I first saw you standing in
radiant beauty that moonlit night. I have no
thoughts which do not turn to thee. Thou hast
made me happy, suffer, go mad, enter the highest
feelings of pleasure, in turn. And now you tell
me that you love me, and the words which but
yesterday would have made me the happiest and
gladdest of men, seem but a cruel irony to-day. I
may never meet you on the old terms again. Today,
your mother bade me cease my visits to you,
and said that she was going to take you away to
Florence, and I shall never see you again, and, if
I suffered before, what must I suffer now that I
know that you love me. Oh ! it is cruel to lose
you now, Euphrosyne."

'^ You do not lose me' said Euphrosyne, timidly
putting her arms round his neck, and laying her
head on his bosom. " You shall never lose me, I
"will love you always."

"If yon love me," said Charles bitterly, "tell
me not of it. Tell me you hate me, and I will then
find life offers me a task to do. But loving me, as
things stand now, is like pointing out a promised
land to a sightless man."

How cruel you are," said Euphrosyne, reproachfully.
" I cannot help my mother's actions,
I cannot get her to see things with my eyes ; all I
can do is to love you, and I do, my darling, very,
very much."

Charles bent down to her lips, and pressed his
to them for a long while, then he said —

Time is a kindly god, and cures most things.
I will be content for a little while to lose you. The
possession afterwards will be all the more precious.
But you must remember to love me very much
always, as much as I shall love you, and you will
write to me, and I will write to you, and we will
try and content ourselves with this, till a day
comes, as it will come, my Euphrosyne, when I
may claim you in the face of the world as my
wife."

I am all yours, and I will do whatever you
wish," said Euphrosyne ; then, after a pause, she
added, " Will you stay here, Carlo ? "

"No, Euphrosyne, I love Sorrento, and could
well pass away years of my life here, but that is
because you were here. I could not stay here now.

to wander forlornly about, and call you by name,
and pause, and wait for an answer, and yet know
that the answer would never, never come. Each
spot here is hallowed in my mind by some recollection
of you, and by that recollection only, and
to stay here after you have gone, would be like
one gazing on the empty frame, whence some ruthless
hand has stolen the portrait of his dear lady.
No. I have idled too long, and now 'tis the season
of work, and my happiness will be to know that
now I am really working for you. Oh, Euphrosyne,
we shall be happy together."

'^ I am never happy but when I am near you,"
said Euphrosyne.

Then they fell to talking as lovers always do,
talking and giving caresses, uttering and responding
words of endearment, and time went lightly
by. It was not till evening that they parted, and
they had promised to write, and to be faithful to
each other, and to feed the flame of their love
with the kindling hope to be together for ever
some day. And the sun went down in glory behind
the purple isles, and the sky and sea were all aflame
with brilliant light, and the white olive trees threw
a dark shade, as their lips met for the last time.

TRUE HEARTS ARE MORE THAN CORONETS.

In a few days the pleasant little society that had
grouped round the hospitable house of the Baroness
de Bienaimee was broken up and scattered indifferent
directions.

The Baroness, accompanied by Euphrosyne and
Bianca, departed for Florence, and after their
departure Charles could no longer stay at Sorrento.
Mangles had gone back to England, after having
done Charles as much mischief as he well could.
Charles had had an interview with him at the
Tramontano, the same evening that he had bade
Euphrosyne a last good-night. Mangles professed
himself glad to see him, but Charles cut him short
by flinging down a cheque for £150, and bidding
him give him a receipt and hold his peace.

I am in no humour," he had said, '^ to put up
with your vulgarity, and I wish to say that I hope
that now all intercourse between us will stop. You
have been a stumbling-block to me many times,
and now that you have no claims on me — you will
observe I have calculated the interest due on your
loan — I must request you to forget that we were
ever acquainted."

Mangles had answered by crushing the cheque
up in his hand and throwing it into the corner,
and then signed the receipt. (A rather crumpled

cheque for £150, payable by the Penrith Bank to
Mr. Mangles was let it be added, shortly afterwards
passed through the London clearing-house.)
Charles then went home to his lodgings, and
drew up and sent to the Oxford Guardian and
Oxford Chronicle the following advertisement : —

NOTICE. — All Tradesmen having claims upon
Mr, Charles Hauberk (Benson), late of St.
Mary's College, are requested to send in a statement
of such claims on or before Wednesday, the
14th inst., for payment. No letters from solicitors
can be entertained, and, if sent in, will not be
answered. — Address, CHARLES HAUBERK, The
Grande Sentinelle Hotel, Sorrento, Golf di Napoli.

In about eight days Charles was favoured with
a shower of bills, the first to come in being that
of The Spider, who had written across the back —
Mr. Harrison begs to call the special attention
of Mr. Hauberk to the sweet things in summer
trowserings which he has in stock; also to a few
cases of Havana cigars, at £5 the box. — Pes.
Twelve months' credit, or ten per cent, discount
for cash within three months."

Charles paid all his bills, and felt greatly relieved
at being no longer under any. obligation to men of
the Harrison type, so rightly nicknamed after the
insect that never looses its prey till its victim's
last drop of blood has been sucked out. When
these matters were at last settled he began to
think what he should do, and how to best employ
his talents and his £2,000. He had, it is true,
first had the idea of following Euphrosyne to

Florence, but bis sense of honour and of the consideration
due to the Baroness, prevented him;
and yet be felt very miserable wandering about
alone , for baying declined the friendship and
society of the Mertonss, and by baying, in doing
so, practically renounced the society of Herbert
Lovell, when be did not need it, be felt too proud
to seek it now. Often the poor boy would wander
Tip to the Yilla Dresda gate, and press bis face
against the cold iron bars, and strain bis eyes
gazing on the ground were be bad first spoken to
the dear girl be so fondly loved; and often, too,
he would call " Eupbrosyne, Eupbrosyne ! " What
times the bum of the buzzing gadfly, or, at eventide,
the wanton chirping of the cicada, would
alone respond !

At last be could stand it no longer, and determined
to go back to England, and after a little
reflection decided on doing so. He went, therefore,
to tell Herbert and bid him good-bye. Herbert
was as usual with the Mertonss, and when
Charles entered be found bis friend in a very
affectionate pose with Mildred, while Brother John
looked on, beaming with happy smiles.

Charles bowed to the Mertonss, and addressing
Herbert, said — " I've come to say good-bye,
Herbert."

'' Good-bye, Charles ? "

Yes ; I am leaving in a day or two for
England."

Oh, Charles," said Herbert, " why did you not
tell me so before P '

I have only just decided on doing so. Plans
are quickly formed with, me."

Then you are really decided' said Herbert.

"Yes."

Well, let me help you with your things — to
pack, and so on.^'

Charles readily availed himself of his friend's
offer, and while they were so engaged Herbert
said —

Charles, do you look on me as a friend ? "

Charles disliked exhibitions of sentiment and
sentimental phrases, so he answered rather abruptly,
and consequently without much grace —

'' Yes, yes, of course ; why do you ask ? "

Because' said Herbert gravely, " I want to
tell you something which will interest you, and yet
I fear to pain you."

What is it," said Charles, sitting down on his
portmanteau with an air of resignation.

Herbert put a letter into his hands and said —
^^ I have loved you, Charles, very much, and now
I am forbidden, by the only person whose authority
I acknowledge, to have any intercourse with you."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, Charles, that letter is from my mother;
I wish you to read it, and, if you can, to give mean
explanation of its contents. I cannot obey it,
for I love you, my friend, and yet I want an
explanation. There is some mistake, I am certain."

Perhaps this letter will not be a very pleasant
one for me to read, and as I dislike sentimentalities

of any sort, I must ask you to excuse me from
reading this letter."

No, no," said Herbert, anxiously. " I want you
to read it. It alters nothing. There is a mistake."


As you wish it," said Charles, " I will do it."
Charles then unfolded the letter. It dated from
Havre, and announced the arrival of Mrs. Dixon,
Herbert's mother, at that port. After sundry
observations on financial matters, and on her passage
from New York, the writer paragraphed off
as follows : —

'* You tell me now for the first time that you
have a friend named Charles Hauberk, and that
he is staying with you at Sorrento, and that you
will be very glad to introduce him to me. This is
what I say. Loathe the man who bears that name
as you loathe an unclean thing, as you loathe folly,
treachery, vice, deceit and liars. If you love your
mother, sunder at once all connection with him
and shun him as you would a leper. I cannot
come to Sorrento while he is there. I could not
come within a hundred miles of him. Therefore
choose ; either abandon your friend or be content
never to see me again. Unless I hear that you
have done as I wish, I shall take the next mail
back to America. Either get rid of your friend, and
come and meet me at Paris, or renounce all hope
of ever seeing me again."

What can it mean ? " said Herbert, pained to
see how deeply his friend was wounded.

'mean? ali — mean? And you say that this interesting,
lady-like epistle was written by " —

Dora Dixon, my mother's said Herbert.

Dora Dixon, indeed, widow of the late " —

"John Dixon, brewer of Surat beer, at lew
York," said Herbert, rather piqued by his friend's
manner.

Oh, a brewer. Well, well, perhaps that explains
it," said Charles, with the greatest insolence,
and hardly knowing what he was saying.

"Yes, never mind that, but tell me, Charles,
what do you think it means 9 " said Herbert affectionately,
and making every allowance for his
friend's feelings.

Mean ? How can I know. The lady apparently
dislikes the aristocracy of England, and therefore
includes the bearer of one of its names. I cannot
offer to explain the line of reasoning she pursued
in penning these lines, I have not the lady's acquaintance,
and do not desire it. Ail I can say is,
that I can, of course, not be the reason that so
polite a lady and so loving a son should be
separated, and all I can do is to wish you a very
good day."

Now there are limits to all human tempers, and
Charles's tone was even more insolent than his expressions.
Herbert, who had been quite startled,,
and, in no ordinary measure, pained on reading the
letter which he had only that very morning received,
had made the amplest allowance, for
Charles's amour-'projpre, and the pride which he
knew was his besetting sin ; but hearing his

mother insulted, and not seeing in his natural
anger that the effect of the letter had quite bereft
Charles of any discernment or consideration, he
could contain himself no longer, and said in some
anger —

You shall not insult my mother. I will not
allow it."

"I had no intention of insulting Mrs. Do-ra
Di-oxon, as I believe she is called. The insult seems
to be on her side."

I tell you I will not allow it."

'you will not allow what ? "

*' I will not allow you to insult my mother. 1
gave you the letter to read, telling you there was a
mistake. You make no allowances."

I can make no allowances for such a letter.
The letter is the worst specimen of " —

I tell you to be quiet."

Indeed, you tell me to be quiet. Mr. Lovell,
you are as unreasonable as — ■ "

*' Have you no feeling ? " cried Herbert. " Have
you no gentlemanly honour ? "

'' I answer no questions," said Charles, starting
to his feet, and pointing to the door.

Herbert looked at him, his blood was up. And
yet he loved his friend well, and was sick at heart
at this unseemly quarrel.

Charles was utterly disgusted with himself at
what he had been saying, but perverseness had got
hold of him, and spoke from his lips, while his
whole body winced at the cruel words he himself
uttered.

VOL. II. o

Perhaps Herbert noticed this, for he grew calm
and said —

I can understand your anger. It is not unnatural.
It is not illegitimate as you are " —

You are a mean damned scoundrel," said
Charles, starting forward in a burst of rage,
You are the lowest of blackguards. Take that,"
and he struck him with all his force on the mouth.

Charles had not marked his friend's altered tone,
but had only heard the words — " It is not illegitimate
as you are " — and did not wait, but, driven
by perverseness, and probably knowing all the
while in his heart of hearts that Herbert had
never meant his words as a reproach, but was only
beginning a sentence, had sprung forward and done
his cruel deed.

He raised his arm to strike again, but Herbert
caught his arm, and said —

Are you mad, Charles ? What have you
done ? '^

"What I will repeat," said Charles ;" what I
will do to chastise everyone who insults me."*^

Do you know whom you have struck ? "

'^ Aye, well enough, Herbert Lovell."

You have struck " — began Herbert ; then he
paused and looking sorrowfully at Charles, put his
handkerchief to his bleeding mouth, and walked
slowly to the door. There he paused and said —
'' You will be very sorry some day, Charles. I wish
sou a true good-bye."

*' Get away," said Charles, through his teeth.

The door opened, and Herbert went out. The

next minute Charles threw himself on Its bed and
gave way to a passion of grief and a flood of burning
tears.

In a few moments he jumped up, and struck
himself with his balled fist in the face, and assailant
again, and then he ran to the door and cried —

'^ Herbert, Herbert, come back ! "

But Herbert was out of hearing, and they met
no more.

That evening Charles left the Grande Sentinelle,
and took the Florio-Eubattino steamer to Genoa,
which he reached the following morning. He was
driven to an hotel, and the first thing he did was
to write the two following letters : —

To Mr. Herbert Lovell, Sorrento.
"My Dear Herbert,

'^ Forgive me. I cannot excuse my behaviour.
I must have been mad. I misunderstood
what you said. I was very sorry immediately
afterwards.

"Your very affectionate,

^^C. Hauberk."

To Mademoiselle Euphrosyne de Bienaimee,
Lungarno, Firenze.
My own Darling Little Euphrosyne,

You see I have left Sorrento. I could
not bear it after you had left, and so I went too.
I wanted very much to come to Florence after you,
but thought it might vex the Baroness, as indeed
it would have done. Is Mademoiselle Bianca with,
you ? Do you know, I met her the morning you

left, and she looked very strangely at me, and all
lie said was, ' Hope,' and, indeed, Hope is all I
live on — hope some day to have you for ever. My
pretty little darling, I cannot tell you how much I
am looking forward to your first letter. Be sure
to write it in English.

Oh, I forgot ; I have such a droll thing to tell.
I bought the Paris Figaro to-day, and saw a paragraph
called La Mare et Le Mart in the gossip
column, under the heading, Carnet cVun Mondain,
which seems to refer to the Chevalier de la Yigne ;
and as I believe he was my rival, I send you the
cuttings, to show you to what heroic deeds the love
of you can drive men.

[The cutting, freely translated, is as follows : —
A few months ago, the fraternity of boulevard
lost one of their members, a man who was
the most regular at the heure d* absinthe, and the
heure du vermouth, and who was always to be seen
between three and five o'clock driving in the Bois
with the fameuse equestrian of the Hippodrome,
Mme. C. There was much grief among this coterie,
and nobody knew what had become of him. He
has suddenly reappeared, and is mute to all questions
as to where he has been. I am, however,
informed that this gentleman has been on a pilgrimage
to Cythera, the object of his passion being
a young lady, daughter of a very old and aristocratic
Bourbon family, who resides with her mother
in a coquet villa not far from N — , in Italy. I am
also informed that the lady's dot is very considerable,
and would by no means have been unwelcome

to the young man, who, as it may be remembered,
lost rather heavily over Cafe au lait at the
Auteurs races last string. He was, however,
unsuccessful in his wooing, and planned a terrible
revenge, nothing less than to prove his
love and wound his cruel love's heart by a
melodramatic suicide. Imitating the hero of
Victor Hughes romance, Les Travellers de la Mer,
he chose a rock in full view of the Villa Dresda,
and sat there waiting for the cruel sea to engulf
him and his miseries. But the sacre Mediterranean
^as not en accord, and refused the shelter of her
bosom to the luckless, lovelorn young man. After
waiting five hours for the tide to rise, he abandoned
his seat, and his project, in disgust, and thus a
valuable life has been spared, and the restaurateurs
of the Boulevards have once more among their
clientele unfameux consommateur.^

Fancy the poor little Chevalier waiting for the
tide of the tideless sea — is it not droll ?

I shall be here some time, and then go on to
Venice. Write soon, and believe me, with a
thousand kisses ever your devoted lover,

'* Chaeles Hauberk."

LOST.

Correspondence between Charles Hauberk and
Euphrosyne de Bienaimee^ and others : —

^' My Dearest Charles,

If I could write to you every day I
would, for nothing gives me more pleasure than
to commune with you even through the silent
medium of a letter ; but I am obliged to be very
careful, for I know that mamma would be displeased
if she knew that I was writing to you.
Therefore also, I ask you, though my heart aches
to do so, not to write every day as you have done
all this month. Mamma sees all the letters that
come into the house, and as it is not very usual
for me to receive so many letters, she will become
suspicious, and perhaps forbid me to write to you
or receive your letters.

'' I am not very happy, and but for your dear
letters and the love that speaks forth from every
line, I should be very miserable. I feel certain
that mamma knows that I still love you, and is so
.opposed to it that she is doing her best to marry
me to the Duke, Arnolfo, you know, the brother
of dear Bianca, whom, as a child, and before I
met yoUj I fancied I could love. He is here constantly,
and 1 believe he wishes to court me. I

do not like him the least bit now, for my eyes
have been opened, and I cannot love such a man.

"Bianca is very kind to me, and it is to her I
confide my secrets, and it is to her every night in
my chamber that I talk of you ; she speaks so
well of you, and I am sure will use all her influence
with her brother to prevent him from troubling
me.

I will write to you again as soon as T hear
that you have reached Venice, and now, with all
my heart, I wish you a happy good-night; oh, if
I might be near you now ! — A loving kiss.
*tua Sposa,

Euphrosyne'*

Venice.
"My own Darling Euphrosyne,

"Your letter, which reached me on the

eve of my departure, gave me pain. I cannot tell

you how anxious I feel when I hear from you that

you are forced to be with the Duca di Caserta,

while I am far away from you. Surely your

mother will never force you to marry a man whom

you cannot love. I can say nothing against the

Duke. I liked what I saw of him very much.

He is brave and handsome, and has the worldly

recommendation of possessing a princely fortune,

and an unstained name. But he is not the man

to pick my little flower and hold it in his hot

grasp. Did I ever read you my lines —

The lily quivers in the peasant's grasp,
The aspen shivers in the cold north wind,

The gilded moth within the eager clasp
Leaves of its beauty not a trace behind.

You are a tender lily, and not made to bloom in
the lot breath of the world. Oh, Euphrosyne,
when I think of the happiness that would be mine,
to live in the same secluded spot of beauty with
you, and to be with you always where never harm
or hurt mic]^ht befall you, and where we should
live in and for ourselves alone. When will that
day come ? When, when ?

'^ I cannot obey your injunction about writing,
but if you wish I will not post my letters each day,
but write every day and send them ofB together in
one envelope at the end of the week. They will
be very similar. I can tell you nothing but that
I love you, and love you, and love you.

I shall not be at Venice very long. I want to
go back to England. I want to clear up this
mystery about my birth. I want to be certain one
way or other if I am a pariah, or, after all, a
respectable citizen. If I find, as I know I shall,
that I am what the world holds me to be, I shall
come to you at once and take your decision. In
the other case I shall be an ordinary mortal, and
must take my chance with your mother. I will
write again before I leave.

With undying love I remain, my own sweet
girl,

Your loving and devoted
*' Charles Hauberk*'

Letter from Herbert Lovell, Sorrento (Forwarded
from Genoa) : —

"My Dearest Charles,

I received jour note from Genoa, and
-would have answered it at once, but when I am in
anger with a person, I like to test mj own feelings
before writing on impulse. There was, however,
little need for me to follow m^^ rule in this
case for I have never borne you the least ill-will.
I was very sorry at what had happened, and very
glad that I controlled my feelings. Your blow
was decidedly hard, I should not have thought you
could have hit so well. It is a great gift is hard
hitting in these days, where everybody, thinking
themselves protected by the law, are as insolent
as they can be. Well, let us say nothing more
.about it.

^' My mother is now staying at Sorrento. She
has been here three weeks, and is charmed with
the place. She bears you as much ill-will as ever,
and will not hear your name mentioned. She has
forbidden me ever to speak about you, and when
I asked her why, she got very angry and spoke
quite harshly to me. It is a sad mystery. I so
much wanted you to know her. She is so kind
and gentle as a rule, and would, I know, have
grown very fond of you, and replaced, perhaps, the
mother you have lost.

'' And now, dear Charles, let me preach. You
said once something which pained me very much.
Do you remember ? It was just after I heard the
news of my stepfather's death. I asked you if
you loved your mother dearly, and you said — ' But
for the fact that I am alive, I have no proof

I ever had a mother. No, I have no reason to
cherish her memory. Her legacy was to me one
of grief, of tears, of reproach. I never knew her
my happiness lies there.' I felt very sorry when
I heard you speak thus, for whatever her fault
or whatever her life, she was and is still your
mother. Just think of the word, mother, what
a holy sound it has. How true were the words
of my poor countryman —

Because I feel that in the heavens above,
The angels whispering to one another,

Can find among their burning words of love
None so devotional as that of * mother.*

From all you have said about yourself, I cannot
help knowing what it is that grieves you everyday,
but why turn your resentment on your
mother ; the woman is always the less culpable in
those matters, and bears all the shame, and all the
suffering. And you should not, even in your
thoughts, be one of those who condemn her. Be
certain she loved you, oh, she loved you, and no
doubt her last thoughts, when hunted from the
world, broken-hearted with shame and sufferings
she laid herself down for the last time, were of her
dear boy, and those lips so soon to become cold in
death, kissed you, and kissed you, and whispered
with her last breath a prayer for you,

'^ I think my inferences have been correct and
may tell you I have often thought of your position
with great pain in one direction and hope and
consolation in another. In the presence of a great
grief; my lips have sometimes remained silent.

*The heai-t knoweth its own bitterness, and a
stranger intermeddling not with its joy,' says
Solomon. I feel, in wishing to console yon, how
very possible it is to be Cruel in the attempt to administer
comfort. But there are some people in
the world who are only legitimate in point of
birth and illegitimate in every other thing almost,
and fully alive to the disadvantages and the pain
of your position, all the greater and the more intense
by reason of your education and social position,
I say this, and I mean what I say, that
your heart being turned to good, I would rather,
by one hundred times, be you, than plenty of legitimate
gentlemen, and those even far from being
what the world would stigmatise as scoundrels.
Nothing really disgraces a man but bad conduct,
and the very fact that your position is a painful
one in a certain sense, would but lead the good
and noble to take you the more readily into the
inner sanctuary of the heart.

You will not mind my saying this. I have
long wanted to tell you that I am not one of those
fools who think that a service gabbled over a
couple makes their children any better than the
children of love.

I hope you will not forget to vn-ite to
Your very affectionate friend,

"Herbert Lovell."

A week later Charles got the following from
Bianca di Caserta : —

Dear Signor Carlo,

I feel I must write to you, because we
were good friends together, and it would not be
friendship on my part if I were to be silent. I
know that you love Eupbrosyne, and Eupbrosyne
adores you, and to me it seems that you could
not be better matched, and I love Eupbrosyne
so much that I am quite happy in seeing ber
happy, and therefore to see ber sad makes me
sad also, and sbe is sad now, and not without
reason. The Baroness seems determined to
marry her to my brother, and my brother is at
present not unwilling, and has indeed broken off
an engagement wbicb he bad contracted between
himself and the Principessasa di Benvenuta, of
this town. They are not engaged yet, but it
seems very imminent. I will still do my best to
prevent this marriage, for much as I love my
brother, I love —

(Neb. — Bianca scratched out the words I have
nnderlinecl.) " Therefore be watchful, as I will be,
■ and believe me ever yours,

'' BlAl^CA."

This letter rather upset Charles, but he trusted

in Eupbrosyne, and so made no mention of it to ber.

In a few days be took train to London, via Paris,

He bad not left bis botel four days, when another

note came from Bianca.

"Dear Charles,

What I feared is done. Eupbrosyne is
affianced against ber will to my brother.

Bianca/'

Open-eyed CONSPIRACY.

Scene : A private room in one of the large hotels in the Strand.
Time : Three o'clock in the afternoon of a rainy day.
Present : Bartlemy Hiram, alias Dr. Toogood, alias Milwaukee
Bartholomew.

Why does be not come ? '' said Bartlemy, consulting
his watch with a gesture of great impatience.
" What the deuce does he mean by keeping
me waiting. We agreed to meet at two
o'clock, and now it is past three. He is a good
side too careless, is that Snorker, and by far too
careless for me."

Then he began to pace up and down the room,
muttering to himself —

*why do I have dealings with this fellow —
why ? Because two heads are better than one, and
four hands better than two, and punishment, when
it falls on us, will fall divided, or perhaps, he ! he !
he ! all on him. I seem especially exempt from
that retribution which, as the world and poets,
bah ! say, is bound to come on crime. I am a
criminal and I know it ; but, the deuce, what is a
man to do who wants to live and is too much of a
gentleman to work, and who wants a gentleman's
pleasures ? Pleasure ! Ah, I love thy name,
sparkling wine, warm kisses, and the rattle of the
dice, and are they not worth all the trouble they
take to possess? But this coicp which I am

206 A BARTERED HONOUR.

planning will free me for ever from the doubts of
my position. It is true my wife's thousand a year
is a resource, but sbe is damnably tight-fisted, and
little is the benefit I get from it. To get it all
and the other thing is now my object, and, as I
cannot work it alone, I get this infernal Snorker
to help me. I hold him tight, that is one comfort.
Swindler at Monaco, forger at Marseilles, and
blacken in England, my knowledge of his history
and his career gives me a tight grip on him, and
he must serve me body and soul. He did that job
with Esther well, and now she is out of the way
matters are easier. Ha ! I hear a step ; it is my
companion, my slaves'

It was indeed Chizzlem, who, dripping wet, was
ushered into the room by an obsequious waiter.

Waiter," said Bartlemy, " two glasses of rum
and water, bring the water and the bottle of rum ;
and now sir," said he, turning to Chizzlem, as soon
as the waiter had gone out of the room, " why the
d — 1 have you kept me waiting this time. You
were to have been here an hour ago."

''I bet," said Snorker, '^ that when you hear
what I have been doing, you will say my hour was
well employed. Whom do you think I have seen
in London ? "

"Whom?"

'^ Charles Benson," said Snorker, triumphantly.

"Ha, where?"

I first saw him in Fleet Street, looking into a
bookseller's shop. I followed him down to Trafalgar
Square, where he entered Mor ley's."

'^ Did you lose sight of him there ? " asked
Bartholomew.

*'No, I entered into the hotel much against my
"will, you know I stayed there once, and was obliged
to demenager a lajiselle, but I risked recognition,
and went in and asked if Mr. Charles Hauberk
were staying there."

"And they said?"

*' Yes, he had just arrived. Didn't know if he
-was going to stay, had to clear out then, as I saw
the proprietor in the hall, and couldn't trust my
whiskers too far, you know."

Yes, yes," said Bartholomew, "you did well.
I could not afford to lose you just at present. Do
you remember the old gentleman's address ? "

*' What, the old bloke whose ticker I scooted onboard
? "

*' Yes, whom else ? "

I know his address."

"What is it?"

*' Here is his card."

Luke Bennett,

17, Palgrave Square.

'* And are you sure he believed that this Charles
was the thief? "

'* Certain, he kept slanging him all the way upto
London."

What did you do with the watch ? "

Dropped it for a fiver at a slop-shop at Southampton."


'good ; now what you have to do is to teep-
your eye on this Hauberk, or Benson."

'What for?'^

All in good time ; I don't know whether to
take you into my confidence or not. It is a grand
coup, and will make our fortunes, but I have not
grasped the whole matter yet, and don't want to
spoil it by going to work too quickset

Look here," said Chizzlem, irritably, ''' I don't
call this square. All should be above board between
pals, and I am blowed if I like to work in
the dark. Some time ago you told me, ' I want
Esther out of the way,' and I said ' Run her in as
Polly,' and you agreed, and we had her put into a
lunatic asylum, where she is now. Now you set
me dodging this young man, and want to have him
arrested. What is it all about ? Come, be square,
and at least let us know what's on the happy."

Bartlemy kept silence, and, stirring his rum and
water, seemed lost in thought. At last he said —

Chizzlem, you're hard up, aren't you ? "

'' As hard up as a bloke who can't get a roaf-
manners' worth of whisky on the slate can be."

Well I am, too."

Go on, you, with a wife worth twenty thousand
pounds."

Aye, which she keeps to herself, but, as I say,
I am poor, and you are poor. We want money."

« Oh, no."

And money must be had. How would a couple
of thou, suit you ? "

"That depends on what risk I have to run to
get it. Bar the risk, amazingly well'

Well, if you will help me you shall have it."

'' What's the game ? "

Ah, that I won't tell you yet. I will tell you
the first part, which we must do, we want funds to
work the second."

And the first part is " —

To put my wife where Esther White is''

That's what I advised you to do all along."

"Yes, and I mean to avail myself of your
advice, and of your help now."

And are the £2,000 for that ? "

Oh, no, that is the least part of it ; the work
comes afterwards.'^

"Well, tell us what it is, can't you," said
Snorker impatiently.

Bartlemy looked at him, as if undecided what
to say, then played with his spoon, took a gulp of
rum and water, looked at Snorker again, drained
his glass, and jumping to his feet started up, and,
going up to Snorker, seized him by the arm and
said —

Step this way, I'll tell you all, and then see
if it isn't worth our trouble."

So saying he drew him to the window, and for
fully an hour the two men stood there discussing
Bartlemy's plan, the gigantic daring and risks of
which seemed to amuse, startle, and excite them
by turn.

They spoke in whispers, but a listener at the

VOL. II. p

door might have caught the following disjointed
words of Bartlemy's —

Lawyer — Grosvenor Gardens — Case for charity —
Esther — Lord Hauberk — Wanted — Identity — Better
terms — Man in possession — Keep others out of way —
Americans'*

You are a clever fellow' said Chizzlem
admiringly, as they returned from the window and
once more took their places at the table. '^ A very
clever fellow, Mil, and deserve to make your fortune,
which you will do."*^

Which I mean to do, and yours too.'^

On a different scale, by Jove. I have not
agreed to terms yet."

I repeat my offer, £2,000 and no risk."

I canst accept less than £4,000. Tou may
throw in a little risk, if you like, for the money."

A wrangle then ensued between the two men as
to the terms. Bartlemyreviled, threatened, cajoled
and flattered his companion in turns, but Chizzlem
would not give way. At last Bartlemy made the
following proposal —

"A thousand pounds as soon as my wife's
twenty are in my hands, and three thousand as
soon as the other affair is settled. I won't budge
an inch from this."

'' Done with you," said Chizzlem ; and they
shook hands.

Now the first thing to be done is to get your
two medical friends down to Devonshire. Will
they do the job on the same terms as they did
Esther's business ? " said Bartlemy.

I think so. You'll pay all expenses, of
rse.'^

** Yes' said Bartlemy.

And here I must ask the reader who loves sensational
incidents to excuse me if I refrain from
entering into the details of the shameful proceeding
which resulted in Sabine's confinement in a private
lunatic asylum, and the custody of her property
passing into the hands of her husband. The thing
is done every day, and personally I know of several
persons, chiefly helpless women, who are thus confined
by their greedy, heartless relatives. In a
short time the gloomy gates of Peckham Lodge
had opened on another victim, and Sabine Hiram
was as much dead to the world as if the tomb had
closed over her.

The infamous practitioners who had given their
certificates were well paid, and Snorker received
his fee in the shape of five promissory notes of
£200 each.

The next time the men met was a month later,
the place was the same.

Hiram was there first, but Snorker did not long
keep him waiting. As soon as he entered he
said —

Well, how was the thing done P ''

'capitally."

And does this further plan No. 2 ? '*

Of course, I have money now my wife is out of
the way. Esther is out of the way, and the field
is clear."

"Ah, the chief person has escaped."

How ? What do you mean ? "

I was at Morley's again this morning. Charles
Hanberk has left'

"When?"

'yesterday."

"Where for?"

I don't know."

'^ Did you ask?"

How could I ? "

Well, he has gone, d — n hint ; we must find
him, and sharp. '^

"Why?"

Oh, hang you, Snorker, with all your questions.
Don't you see that this matter must be
pushed through sharp or others will reap the
fruits ? Look here, don't you see that others are
already busy with this same matter? Have yoa not
seen these two advertisements in the papers a
hundred times ? "

"The which?"

"These," said Bartlemy pointing to a newspaper
that lay on the table ; " there."

Notice. — Would the lady who helped a poor girl at the

■. Grosvenor Hotel, in October last, kindly communicate

with the lawyer who called on her on that occasion ? By

doing so she will greatly oblige. Sister's address nob

known.

And lower down.

£500 Reward. — Whoever can give information as to the whereabouts
of Esther Lovell. lately in America, and last seen
in London, will receive the above reward. Also, should
this meet the eye of Esther Lovell, she is earnestly
entreated to communicate with the advertiser at once. —
John Bennett, Lincoln's Inn, London.

What do you think a lawyer chap would offer
£500 reward for were he not certain of making
a lot of money? I guess hee won't find Esther
Lovell.'^

"Why not?" said Snorker, "suppose the
Peckham Lodge people get hold of the paper'

Well, and what then 9 you bet she don't get
the papers to read ; besides she don't call herself
Lovell, but White."

You're right," said Snorker. " What did you
say the advertiser's name was ? "

Bennett, John George Bennett."

Bennett ? Why that's the name of the man
of the watch."

So it is. Bennett ain't a uncommon name."

"Well, but it is an odd coincidence, all the
same. Let's look at the paper."

Bartlemy tossed the paper over to Snorker, who
looked at the advertisements. Suddenly his attention
was attracted, and he betrayed evident signs
of excitement.

What's up ? " said Bartlemy. Ton are not
thinking of going and blowing on the plant, are
you? It would be £500 hardly earned if you
did."

Get out," said Snorker, indignantly. " Don't
you know your pal better than that ? "

Then what's up ? "

Look here, another advertisement."

Snorker passed the paper to Bartlemy, pointing
to this advertisement.

NOTICE.— CHARLES Benson is requested
to communicate with advertiser at once,
when he will hear of something decidedly to his
advantage. — J. G. Bennett, Lincoln's Inn, London.

Gad' said Bartlemj, " how could we let him
go, when we might have him safe in quod."

Had not we better let the matter slide ? " said
Chizzlem.

Fool' said Bartlemj. " There are now a
thousand reasons why we should not. It is no
longer a question only of losing a fortune, but of
our personal safety."

How so ? "

How so ? Bigamy, forgery, and other games
we have played, will be exposed if this cursed
Bennett finds out where Esther is."

"Who is this Bennett?"

A barrister, who went to the bar from being
a solicitor. He is an old man. I saw him at
Grosvenor Gardens last year, when I was courting,
pah ! my wife. He came to talk about Esther
Lovell. It appears that Miss Crosthwaite, my
wife's sister, met Esther after I knocked her
down, and took her to the Grosvenor, and there
met Bennett. Luckily for us this Miss Crosthwaite,
for reasons best known to herself hid Esther away
down Westminster way, but gave my wife's address,,
and Bennett came to talk about matters. I shut
him up before my wife, and had a private interview
with him, then I learned what you know.
I did not at the time care to occupy myself with
the matter. I was too anxious to get Mrs. Hiram

the Third safely married to me, or else I would
have thought about it. Now that I am discontented
with what I then thought a big fortune,
I want to turn my knowledge to account, and
make money. I did not want Bennett bothering
about Esther, as I was afraid of betraying myself
to this Sabine, so I told the servant to tell him
we had gone away, which she did when he called
again. What we have to do is this, to get to
know where this Charles Benson is, and then goto
work."

Supposing I find he is in London, what
then?"

'' This is what you must do. Find his address,
and then call on Luke Bennett at Palgrave Square,
renew your acquaintance with him, and get him to
come for a walk with you. Contrive to meet this
Benson in your walk, point him out to Bennett
as the man who stole his watch, get him arrested,
and then trust to chance that he does not get off,
but is kept quiet for a few weeks, till we have had
time to act."

'but the matter will get into the papers;
Bennett will find out where Charles is from the
reports, even if his brother don't tell him. It
seems to me the whole plot is worth nothing."

*' Make all the objections you can," said
Bartlemy. " You only help me, I want to know
all the weak points. Go on."

"Well, here is another thing I have thought
about. This Charles Benson must have friends.
Miss Crosthwaite, for instance, friends at Oxford,

and others who will answer the advertisement,
and then where shall we be ? "

"Benson alone is worth nothing to Bennett,
who can do nothing and prove nothing without
Esther. Why I want him out of the way is, to
have the field all to myself. Were others to
interfere, our chance would be worth nothing.
Therefore, you must do as I said. Twenty to one
Benson is in London, and left Morley to go into
lodgings."

Well, if he is I will find him," said Snorker.

Good-bye, then," said Bartholomew, rising;
^' go to your work."

And you to yours."

'' And I to mine,'^ answered Bartholomew.

As soon as Snorker had gone Bartholomew rang
the bell and bade the waiter bring him a peerage
list and a file of the Times for the year 18 — , and
as there was no file kept , sent him round to a
library in the Strand to borrow one.

When these came he set to work copying extracts
and preparing a business-like document. He
worked hard at this all the evening.

THE MAN OP LAW.

During the month, which had elapsed between
the two interviews described in the former chapter,
Mr. John Bennett had not been idle ; and not discouraged
by his want of success, still pursued his
object with unremitting energy. From the
advertisements which we have read we recognise
his immediate object, namely, to find Esther
Lovell and Charles Benson. Being a cautious
man he had not as yet told anyone with what
further object in view he was pursuing his search,
but kept quiet and spent large sums of money in
advertising. He wanted Esther, then, for some
purpose of his own, and bitterly regretted having
lost sight of her when by hazard he had met with
her in London.

Mr. Bennett had in his youth been a solicitor,
and had had some very good clients, but being
taken very ill with brain fever, which bereft him
for a long time of his memory, and paralyzed more
or less his mental power, he had given up his
practice. Finding, however, that he could not
well live unconnected with things legal, he ate
his dinners at Lincoln's Inn, and renting chambers
there had started again as a barrister. Being
very old when he was called he did not care to
accept many briefs, but such as he did he worked

out with very great care, and , generally, with
success.

Recently, however, his head having become
quite clear again, he seemed to be quite unsettled,
and renouncing all practice set to work on a
mysterious object which nobody could understand,
but which he pursued with energy and application,
which was quite wonderful in so old a
gentleman.

On the morning of the day when Bartlemy had
met Snorker, as described above, Mr. Bennett was
sitting in his study reading his paper when his
laundress knocked at his door and brought him
two letters.

Mr. Bennett carefully perused the address ; they
evidently came from people of the lower order, for
one letter was addressed —

Mister Jon Gorge Bennett,
Lincoln 'is In,

London find 'im) .

and the other —

John george bennet,

Eskire Lincoln inn

london.

l^ews about Esther at last," cried the lawyer-gladly,
as he tore open the first letter and read —

fishro tames strete.
'^ Deer sir,
"I sees mi Pen to rite to jew, referring to
Ester lovel, what yew advertise 4 in the Chronicle
offering 500£ reward for such information. She
staid with me, ma, & grandma a long Time a-go,
and left without setlin. Likewise she left a lokit,
the which grandma Boned, but giv up to ma on
leering of reward, the lokit jew can ave on paying
er det, and Please to send the 500£ as I want to
start a terbacker shop. With respects in which I
join

"Valentine, or Jack, Pimmixs."

"Pes. — Ter not to set polls after grandma what
Boned the Lokit."

The lawyer smiled as he read the letter ; and
remarking, '^ Well, I hope the other letter will be
more satisfactory," tore the second letter open. It
ran as follows : —

18, Burton Row, Westminster,

London.
'' Sm,
I write in answer to your advertisement to
sap we ad a lady called Ester staid here for sometime,
what was visited bj a man what gave jour
name, and whom in ser fewrj attacking she chipped
off a bit of the walnut wood chare, Which that
aggravated mj John that he could not enjoy his
vittles, and had the bile when he discovered it.
Should this answer jour retirements please send

the £500 by P.O.O., or in registered letter, or in
stamps.

To Yours Trewlj,

Rebecca Martin'"

Whilst Mr. Bennett was taking a note of the
address of each writer, and copying out the
letters, a third letter was brought him. It came
from Keswick.

'' Dear Sir,
*' I am requested by Miss Dorothy Crosthwaite,
who is ill in bed, to write to you with reference to
your two advertisements.

She bids me say that she placed Esther Lovell
with a Miss Martin, at a house in Burton's Row,
Westminster, the number of which she forgets.

*^ Charles Benson, or Hauberk as he calls
himself, is abroad, and Miss Crosthwaite does not
know his address.

She expressed a hope that her conduct with
reference to this unhappy woman did not really
cause you great annoyance, and adds that she had
given her word and could act in no other way.
"Believe me. Sir,

Your obedient servant,

"Mart Kennedy."

It is clear I must see both Mr. Pimmins and
Mrs. Martin," said the barrister drawing on his
coat, and without delay he drove off to the Thames
Street, and without much difficulty succeeded in
finding Valentine's abode in Fish Row.

Mrs. Pimmins gave him all the information she

could about Esther, and readily gave up the locket
when Mr. Bennett offered to pay the small debt
which Esther had incurred. Valentine was not
very pleased to hear that the lawyer did not think
his information worth the £500^ for ever since he
had answered the letter he had done nothing but
think of the tobacco shop he would open, and had
indeed discounted a promise with his grandmother
to supply her with unlimited snuff when his establishment
was open by devouring that old lady's
stock of peppermint drops.

The lawyer went next to Burton Row, and
learned from Mrs. Martin that Esther had been
with her, but that she had left without grivinor an
address, information which Mrs. Martin thoughtfully
worth £500, and who piteously remarked on
hearing that Mr. Bennett was not prepared to pay
the sum for it, '^ Wot am I tergo about the
mangle I got on tick, 'oping yer would act the
gentleman ? "

Mr. Bennett could not say, and took his leave,
remarking that if Mrs. Martin met Esther, and
would inform him thereof, he would gladly pay her
the worth of many mangles.

As soon as he got home, he examined the locket,
the initials E. L. were entwined on the cover, and
inside was the name of the maker.

"J. Tyson, Jeweller, Melton Mowbray"

That only proves what I already knew," said
the lawyer, impatiently, " namely that this is the
person I am seeking."

"Mrs. Martin's evidence was the most important.

Who can the Bennett be ? Her description reminds
me of someone that I have seen, who can it be ?
If my memory does not fail me now, I may make
a grand discovery and be justified in paying for
poor Mrs. Martin's mangle. By Jove, I've got it,
it's the clergyman I saw at Grosvenor Gardens.
I've got his card. James, bring me the Lovell file.
There, the Hev. Bartlemy Hiram; now James,
Clergy List,' quick, quick. D, E, F, G, H, Hi, Hir,
Hirdon, hum, Higgins, Hickinbottom, hum, hum.
Ah, here it is, Hirane. No, by Jove, there is no
such name here. What a nuisance ; wherever I
turn I find difficulties. Well, I must be off now,
dine with Brother Luke this evening."

With these words Mr. Bennett stepped out of his
chambers, and made his way down Fleet Street
towards Lydgate Hill. When he reached St. Paul's
he suddenly remembered that he had that morning
received a very pressing letter from a solicitor at
Manchester, asking him if he could come down to
that town to discuss a case which the solicitor
wished to lay before him for his opinion, and which
he could not do without Mr. Bennett's presence in
Manchester.

He had quite forgotten the solicitor's letter, so
anxious and preoccupied had he been with Esther's
case, and not wishing to cause any delay, he stepped
into a neighbouring post-office to telegraph his
answer to Manchester.

Just as he entered the office, a man came running
out and pushing against him violently muttered a
hasty apology and ran down the street. Mr. Bennett

had time to notice his appearance. He was
a vulgar looking individual, dressed in a rather
shabby blue serge suit, with a high hat and an
old red velvet tie. His face, which was covered
with spots, was adorned with red whiskers, and
dark red hair, and a very fiery nose,

Mr. Bennett passed into the office, and going to
the counter where the telegraph forms lay, took
one and began to write his address on it.

Suddenly he stopped and closely examined the
form on which he was writing, then folding it up,
put it into his pocket-book, hastily scribbled and
sent off his telegram to Manchester on another
form, and rushed out of the office, and, walking
down the street as fast as he could, turned into
the first refreshment shop he could see.

Quick, a pen and paper ! " he cried to the
waiter, "and turn up the gas.'^

What will the gentleman take ? " said the
waiter"'

Pen, ink, paper, and turn up the gas," shouted
Bennett. Then, " Oh, anything else you like, ,
or what is it."

Half and half, yes, sir."

As soon as the gas was turned up, Mr. Bennett
took the empty telegraph form out of his pocketbook
and began eagerly to scan it.

Yes, sure enough, there, impressed in white
letters on the form he had begun to use, was an
exact copy of the telegram which the person who
had occupied the telegraph counter just before him,
had written on the form that had lain above it.

As soon as the ink came, Mr. Bennett began to
fill in in black the indented letters, and when he
had finished the telegram was reproduced in
exactly the same hand as the original copy had
been written in. It read thus : —

Bear Mil — Found Charles Benson ; meet me at
old place in an hour''

That's very well,'^ said Bennett, " but now for
the address of the sender, and the sendee. Oh
there, just my luck, I laye got a clue and destroyed
its utility myself." For Mr. Bennett, having filled
in the parts of the form reserved for the addresser's
name and address, the impress of the letters
which had come through the form above was quite
obliterated. Poor Mr. Bennett !

Here," said the waiter , as the lawyer rushed
out of the bar, " none of them games," and caught
hold of him, " settle first, and then slope."

( h, I beg pardon," said Mr. Bennett. "I am
very much preoccupied and quite forgot it."

He was so vexed with himself, and with his unsuccessful
attempts, that he could not go to his
brother in the irritated temper he was in. iSo
telegraphing to Luke not to expect him, he dined
in a Fleet Street restaurant, and went home,
thoroughly tired and dejected, to his chambers.

It was perhaps unfortunate that he did not, for
Luke, after he had dined alone, received a visit
from a gentleman who wished particularly to see
him.

Luke, who felt dull and disappointed at having
had to dine alone, allowed the visitor to be shown

in, although the hour was a strange one for such
a visit, and accordingly Mr. Chizzlem Snorker was
ushered in.

I have the pleasure of addressing Mr. ? " —
said Luke, rising.

Chizzlem Snorker^" said that gentleman.

Ml'. Snorker ; hum, I beg pardon, but I really
forget "—

*' Oh no, you don't, sirs' said Snorker, advancing
and shaking his hand, " no, no, you don't.
Don't you remember ses. Wolf, plying between
Southampton and Hamburg, (D.V.-ing, and
weather permitting), and the beautiful watch,
presented to you by his Grace the Duke of
Northampton, which you lost ? "

'^ Ah, I remember. Do you come to give me
news of it ? I shall be very grateful to you. Sit
down please, and Charles, a glass and the port for
this gentleman."

"Thank you," said Snorker. "No, I don't
know where the watch is, but I know where the
thief is, and his name''

"Do you' said Luke, "how very glad I am.
That nasty young man, he pretended to be so
swell. What's his name ? "

Legion," said Snorker, then lowering his
voice, " his real name is ' Kedges.' "

"Kedges?"

"Yes, Bill Kedges. He calls himself Montmorency."


And you know where he lives ? "

VOL. 11. <i

'aye, aye."

111 have him arrested."

'' Of course."

At once."

Into, no, wait till tomorrow at least. I'll help
yon, I'll go with yon."

'« Eight yon are."

Says Moses, say, Mr. Bennett, what's got into
jour brother's head ? "

'what brother?"

'' John George."

^'The barrister, how do yon know he's my
brother?"

Can't I see the likeness ; the same Ionian
nose, the same glad smile ? "

Go on, what do yon mean about what's got
into his head ? "

What's all these advertisements he's a putting
into the papers."

I don't know, how can I know? "

Who's Esther Lovel? "

I don't know. It's some case he's got hold of.
He forgets he is no longer a solicitor."

He was a solicitor, then ? "

Yes."

Good practice ? "

Very, lots of lords, dukes, earls and barons on
his books."

Indeed."

"Yes, and it rather turned his head. Found
his Brother Luke a cad, because Brother Luke
went into the hardware trade."

So, SO got proud, did he ? "

As a duke. The attentions he got from Lord
Brook shire for example, were enough to turn his
head."

Who's Lord Brookshire ? "

'' Dead, title extinct, present heir only got the
"barony. Eight Honorable Lord Hauberk, of ,
in Ireland."

Then your brother was solicitor to Lord Hauberk,
was he ? "

2vo, to Lord Brookshire."

Same thing. Averse they tight ? "

'^ Very, he was quite a friend. Knew all Lord
^rookshire''s secrets. Tended my lord when my
lord died ; got a brain fever immediately afterwards,
and lost his wits for several years. Not
got them all back now. Strange and forgetful at
times, but a damned good man of business all the
same."

Indeed. Well, sir, shall we go after Kedges
tomorrow ? '^

'' Nothing will suit me better. The scoundrel."

And after a warm shake of the hand, Mr.
Chizzlem departed.

We must now go back to Mr. Charles alias Bill
Kedges.

OH, THAT MINE ENEMY WOULD WHITE A BOOK.

We left Charles at Venice, whence he had just
departed for London when Bianca's note arrived
announcing the engagement of Euphrosyne to
Arnolfo Duke di Caserta.

Charles knew, therefore, nothing of this distressful
incident, and as soon as he reached
London, wrote the following letter, burning with
love and full of tenderness, to his dear girl : —

'' Morley's Hotel,

London.
"My own Dear Euphrosyne,

I cannot tell you how uneasy and
distressed I have been, to have passed so many
days before I could hear from you, for to me a
day which brings me no letter from you is like a
day on which the sun has never risen, and is tome
one long, dark, dreary void, where fevered
thoughts chase through my burning brain, and
vague fears and anxieties give way, now to hope,
now to stronger fear. I have just reached London,
and I write to you the minute I have entered this
hotel. I wrote to you on board the steamer from
Naples, at Genoa, at Marseilles, at Lyons, and at
Paris, to tell you of my progress. You will wonder
what I have come to London for. Well, because I
found myself idling in the south, wasting my time.

and not advancing my project and, to be near you
and yet so far away, was worse than to be really
very far.

How hateful London seems after the glorious
south, and how ridiculously affected the people
look contrasted with the children of nature I have
left. Nobody seems to dress here in accordance
with his position. Clerks with eighty pounds a
year, go about like bookmakers just starting for
the races; everybody seems to affect a sporting
kind of dress, and men who never had, and never
will have any connection with sporting matters,
and who probably do not know a fox terrier from
a folded blanket, or a full-bred horse from a park-hack,
advertise their pretensions to be classed as
gallant sportsmen the loudest. I am disgusted
with London. What a wretched unit one feels
amongst these millions. And yet, as I look out of
my window on the thousands of people thronging,
thronging, the square, rich and poor, old and
young, in luxury, in rags, I think to myself that I
envy not one of them, no, not the proud men rolling
from their Clubs to the gilded halls of Westminster,
for not one of them can ever know my
happiness. Happiness ? is that the word ? for all
I feel, all the delirious joy I experience when I
think that you love me, and my heart throbs and
my lips tingle at the remembrance of your kisses.

Oh ! why were we to be separated just when
life seemed worth living? My pretty darling,
write and tell me you love me, tell it me again,
and again, I never shall weary of reading those

words and, when we meet, of hearing you say
them.

I am going to lose no time now, but will try
and find work to do and make myself a position
which will perhaps prone to your mother that
Charles Hauberk has at least the noblest quality
of an English gentleman — ' pluck.' What that
work will be, and what position I may hope to
occupy, I cannot myself say. I mean tho' to
try some literary work, and if I can earn enough
thereby will go to the bar, and you know that in
England the bar is the ladder to all honours.

I take my MSS. to a publisher to-mon-ow; I
shall try to get him to publish my poems and will
send some of my roundabout sketches to the
magazines. If these succeed I shall have reason
to hope.

We are both young, my Euphrosyne, and have
time, but that time must not be long, for my heart
is full into bursting with yearning after you.

Write soon, my dear girl, to your devoted and
loving

"Chaeles Haubeek.'^

In accordance with his statement he sent a line
to De Clyner and Co., referring to his poems.

The same evening he received the following
note from those publishers : —

"Deae Sie,

In answer to your note of to-day we beg
to say that the chances against our being able to

publish your volume of poems are so great, that
we will not even ask you to send your MSS. for
inspection.

'' Yours truly,

'^De Cltner and Co."

Other publishers, to whom he applied, thanked
him for his kind offer, which, however, they were
obliged to decline, as they had for the present completed
their arrangements ; others, in view of the
present want of popularity of poetry, would be
glad to see the MSS. if Mr. C. Hauberk wished to
publish the poems at his own expense, but could
take no risk themselves ; others suggested the
feasibility of publishing them on the half-profit
system, which, as Charles was worldly-wise enough
to know, means all the expense and no gain, &c.,
&c.

Luckily Charles was not quite dependent on his
work for living, for having paid all his debts, he
had still an annuity of £100 to live on, but was by
no means inclined to remain in this state of golden
mediocrity of purse, and set to work with unabashed
vigour to find employment. At last, he
saw an advertisement in the Clapham Mercury,
where it was announced that the editor wanted
the services of an active young man to write
leaderettes, reviews, &c., and applying at the
ofB.ce in Manor Street, engaged with the Clapham
Mercury, to contribute daily at the rate of sos. a
week. In order to be near the office of this mighty

organ, Charles moved from Trafalgar Square to
Manor Street, where he took a small lodging and
occupied himself with his new work, giving great
satisfaction to his employer.

A great trouble to him, however, was the silence
of Euphrosyne. The whole time he had been in
London, he had not received a single line from
her ; and though, at first he attributed this silence
to the probability of the Bienaimee family having
gone to their viUegiatura, as time went on and no
news came, he grew very anxious, and kept
writing in turn to Bianca, and Euphrosyne, imploring
for news.

It was on the second day of his stay at Manor
Street and, having been busy all the afternoon
correcting proofs for the paper, he was sitting
listlessly in his room, watching through the open
window the antics of a monkey, dancing to the
music of a squeaky barrel organ which was being
ground by an Italian. Charles, who had a warm
sympathy for all the children of the pause del Si,
leant out of the window, and engaging the man's
good graces by throwing him a sixpenny bit, asked
bim in Italian —

From what part of Italy are you ? "

"Firenze, Signers'

florence is beautiful, is it not?"

^' As beautiful as your sposa will be, Excellency."

Ah ! " said Charles, thinking of Euphrosyne.

Do you know the Duca di Caserta by name ? "

"IlbuonDuca?"

Yes/^

Si, Signore. He is going to be married*

^' Yeramente, to whom ? " said Charles turning
pale.

To the Principessasa di Benvenuta."

Are you sure ? ^'

Certainly."

When did you leave Florence ? '^

Three months ago."

Ah, thank you ? "

The Italian saluted, and went on his way grinding
forth the tune from the Traviata —

Ai Nostri montagne
EitorBeremo.

'' So," said Charles, '' di Caserta is to be
married, nay, probably is married by this time. I
have nothing to fear then'

To him thus musing then entered his landlady,
a kind old soul. Said she —

Look here, sir, I don't like to see a young
man sit cooped up all day, it ain't good for you,
you know. I have a son myself, who is as good
a lad as lad can be, and works hard, but he do
like a bit of life. Why don't you go out on to
the 'High Street and see a bit of life ? all Clapham
is out just now'

Charles smiled, thinking to himself the world
will only give you credit for what you appear to
be ; perhaps, however, in this case the credit
given is creditable.

However, he was not unwilling to take the

woman's advice, and went out to take a walk.
Skirting the gay throng of drapers' assistants
grocers' factotum, and milliners' apprentices, who
formed the " life '^ of Clapham, he walked out onto
the common, and when he was tired sat down to
smoke on a bench, watching the smoke rings as
they curled upwards into the air, and thinking of
Italy, of Herbert, of his love.

A man who had been loitering near passed and
repassed him, turning his head towards him each
time. His behaviour attracted Charles's notice,
and looking at the man he seemed to himself to
recognize a face he had seen before. Surely he
had seen that blue serge suit when it was newer
and fresher, and that red velvet tie before it had
lost its ruddy splendour, that pimpled face, that
fiery nose, those carrot whiskers and dark red
hair ; where had he seen them ? While thus reflecting
the man, who had taken a long stare at
him, suddenly ran away at full speed, and the last
Charles saw of him was his getting into a cab at
the outskirts of the Common.

'^ It seems to me," said Charles as he walked
home, "that I have seen that man somewhere
and under some unfavourable circumstances," but
for the life of him he could not remember where
or when.

When he got home he found a lot of work
awaiting him ; amongst others there was a book of
poems to review. He opened it and smiled as he
read the title —

Cherry BLOSSOMS AND WILL-O'-THE-WISPS.
Being the Eaelt Poems of

JAMES MANTGLES-PEEBLES-MANGLES,

Of St. Mar. Coll., Oxon.

(Published at the Author's oivn expenses

''iN'ow I can have my revenge," cried Charles,
seizing his pen, " mj enemy has written a book'

Pecks AM LODGE.

The reader will of course bear in mind that the
events referring to Snorker, Hiram, Bennett, and
Charles, related in the three last chapters, all took
place on the same day in different parts of the
town. Thus while Charles was cutting up his
former friend's book of poems, Bennett was fuming
in his chambers over the piece of evidence he had
with his own hand destroyed Snorker, Hiram,
and the unconscious Luke Bennett were plotting
against our hero.

I must now beg my reader to come with me to
another part of the town, and bear in mind that
the events to be related in this chapter take pace
on the same day as the above.

In a small back street in South Kensington,
shut in ail round by high walls, stood a mysterious-looking
house, known to the world as Peckham
Lodge, a private lunatic asylum.

It was here that both victims of the villanous
Hiram were confined. Esther in the poor ward
and Sabine in the ward of Class 3, for the kind
Bartlemy felt he could not do less for his dear
wife than pay £40 a year to Dr. Phillipot for her
sustenance.

Well, all this day Sabine had been trying to
make her case public, and, by drawing attention

to the foul conspiracy of which she was a victim,
procure her release. To give the reader an
insight into this unfortunate ladies real state of
mind I have determined to give copies of certain
letters which she contrived to write at odd intervals
since her confinement. By bribing a
female attendant she had managed to get the
wherewithal to write.

Out of a heap of letters which have come into
my hands I will give two or three.

(Letter No. 1.)

'^ To the Eight Honourable William JEwart

Gladstone, 73, Harley Street.

'^ Peckham Lodge,

South Kensington.

'' She,

Having seen a great deal in the newspapers
about our lunacy laws, I write to you, as a member
of Parliament, to request you to interest yourself
in the matter, for I, as a victim, can assure you
that newspapers do not nearly come up to the
truth in the descriptions of asylums ; numbers of
persons like myself are incarcerated in these
places who are perfectly in their senses, and those
who are insane are not properly treated. The
animals are better off, for if I were to go down a
street and see a horse or a dog ill-used I should
certainly give the person in charge ; but here I
can do nothing, for were I to interfere I should
only bring down upon myself vengeance without
doing any good. There is no prosecuting for assault

or getting at the common law of the country, as
the postage of letters is prevented.

The Commissioners themselves allow that these
places are often used as reformatories, and think it
quite right if any good is done. But how can any
good be learned when violence, dirt, and disorderly
conduct of every description is the order of the day,
and from thence, of course, they get to calumniating
persons, and thrust them here under false certificates.


If Drs. were punished with the utmost rigour
of the law who give false certificates ;

If madhouse-keepers had their licences taken
from them and their houses shut up when rational
beings are found in them, without entering into
any why or because ;

*'If pillar letter-boxes were by act of Parliament
placed over the grounds, the postman himself
taking the letters as is done in the streets, and the
places policed, these evils might in a manner be
remedied.

The limits of my paper will not admit of my
going into this matter as fully as I wish, or going
into my own case; sufficient it is to say that I have
applied over and over again to the Commissioners
to be set at liberty without effect, and I have no
other means of redress.

"I would not mind anyone seeing the copies of
the letters I have sent to the Commissioners.

Trusting you will excuse deficiencies, I am,
sir, yours respectfully,

(Not sent.) " Sabine Hiram."

(Letter No. 2.)

"** To the Reverend the Incumbent of the Keswick

Parish Church.

"Rev. Sir,

'^ Would you kindly use your influence with
my sister, Miss Dorothy Crosthwaite, to come and
take me out of this place,, as a relation can, as let
the party be insane or not, and I think it would be
better not to enter into any questions on that head
until I am once fairly out of this asylum.

I have written several letters to hers but fear
they have not been posted, and she would do well
to claim them.

I cannot extricate myself, for they all so play
into each others hands that it is impossible to do
anything ; and every effort I make to free myself
only makes my position the more intolerable. I
believe that the Drs. have been writing to her, but
I fear they do not wish to put me in my right
position, that of having been brought to an asylum
at all, but to go on a leave of absence, as they call
it, tie up my property from me, aud perhaps
eventually bring me to this place again. This I
must protest against with all the means in my
power ; I have been dreadfully calumniated by
someone or other to the Commissioners, and that
they are not the use I expected them to be of tome,
and I wish to be as I was before, my own
mistress, and soon.

"If my sister only knew the base and even
dangerous things that have been said of her by
those whom she has befriended she would at once

see that her best plan was to make friends within.


I am, reverend sir, respectfully,
(-^^0^ sent.) " Sabine Hiram'

(Letter No. 3.)

*' To the Rev. Bartlemy Hiram, Honeymoon Cottage,

Eosedale, Devonshire.

'dear Bartlemy,

'^ I have written many times to you to tell you
where I am and how shamefully I am treated,
and you do not, as a husband ought, answer my
letters or take the necessary steps to free me
from this place.

*' When I was dragged away from my home I
told the men that I should inform you of their
conduct, but they only laughed and did not care.
I have been several weeks in this odious place, and
never have heard from you. Why don't you write ?
and why don't you look after your wife ?

I tried to escape the other day out of an attic
window, but was caught by Dr. Phillipot, and the
same evening was stripped by two female warders
and beaten, and left to sleep on the bare boards
without a covering.

"I am quite sane, and you know it ; my brain
fever at Paris has not altered that, and you know
it too ; but if I am left here much longer, and
treated as I am being treated now, I shall certainly
go mad, and then what will become of me !

'so please make arrangements to come and take
me out. If you apply to the Commissioners at 19,

Whitehall Place, and say you are a clergyman,
and tell them of that book your ancestor wrote, I
think they will entertain your application.

I hope you are not interfering with my property,
it was settled on me, yon know. I expect to find a
nice sum when I come out, as the interest must
have accumulated.

I advise you to turn your thoughts to suitable
employment, and alter your behaviour.
'' I remain, your wife,

'^ Sabine Hiram."

not sent.)

In noting some of the peculiarities of the style,
the reader must, in justice to the unhappy woman,
before forming an opinion, remember the intense
anxieties caused by her position, her suffering,
and the brain fever from which she had only so
recently recovered.

She had never met Esther, who, as has been
stated, was confined in the poor ward of Peckham
House. Esther, it is true, presented some excuse
for her confinement, for her afflictions since she
first left her home, the shame, suffering, and disgrace
which had come upon her in London, her
exposure to the inclemency of the weather and
the pangs of hunger, her fear and hatred of
Bartholomew, had all worked perniciously on her
mind, which had always been most excitable. For
reasons, which will afterwards appear, she wished
to be hiding, and as her absolute poverty prevented
her from finding any suitable asylum for herself,

VOL. II. K

A Battered HONOUR.

she had fallen an almost willing victim to the
machinations of the villanous Snorker.

It was late. Sabine was sitting in the wretched
room assigned to her in an attic of Peckham Lodge.
Ostensibly she was sewing, repairing a dress of
hers, but in reality she was furtively penning
another letter. She held the ink between her
knees, and wrote hastily at intervals on a sheet
of paper which lay in the drawer of the table.

It was one of many letters she had written to
the Commissioners in Lunacy which had never
been posted. A tallow candle was burning in the
window-sill, and flickered in the draught. Outside,
the wind was soughing in the trees, and whistling
mournfully in the eaves. Sabine was writing, and
very intent on her work. Suddenly she looked
up, a shadow had fallen athwart the table and
intercepted the light. With beating heart and
straining eyes she rose and screamed for help. For
there at the window, stood a tall figure draped in
black, looking outwards, the same fearful apparition
she had beheld at the Clarendon Hotel at
Dover.

*^ Who are you ? Whence did you come ? What
do you want?" she cried, advancing towards the
door.

I am Esther Lovell. I come from below. It
is you I want, Mrs. Hiram' answered the figure
turning, and revealing not the grinning face of a
skull, but a beautiful face of a woman worn and
weary, and afflicted even unto death.

'' Stay'' she continued, for Sabine, who had by

no means recovered from her fright, was going
away. " Stay' she repeated gently "■ I mean you
no harm. I am only a poor woman, like yourself,
only perhaps more miserable."

You startled me," said Sabine, looking with
evident fear on her strange visitor. I had a bad
dream once. The night I married " —

Bartlemy Hiram."

Ha, you know his name ? "

I have reason to, I am his wife."

^' Wife ? ^' screamed Sabine. " A lie, a lie, it is
I, it is I who am Mrs. Hiram."

'' No more than I am."

What do you mean? I married him legally''

And I legally ; he was married before ever
you, poor woman, met him. His name is not Hiram
at all, it is Bartholomew."

"Oh, oh, oh!"

"I heard below," continued Esther, "that a
person called Hiram was staying here. I overheard
two female warders speaking about you ; I
heard them say what a shame it was you were
confined here. They said you were as sane as they
were."

They only spoke the truth," said Sabine, and
added with a little sniff, " and a little saner, I
hope."

As soon as I heard this I knew who you were.
Oh, I knew that another victim had fallen to the
devilry of that wretch. I used to hate you, I
cursed you. I thought of you as a young woman.
I did not expect to see grey hairs."

Indeed," said Sabine tartly, " and pray where
do you see grey hairs ? "

I do nofc mean to offend you. I rather take
your part. No, do not think I mean to be rude.
You are a victim of his, as I am'*

How do you mean a victim ? My husband has
surely nothing to do with my being here. I fancy
poor Bartie is in the greatest distress, and would
rush to free me if he only knew where I am."

'poor Bartie knows that well enough," said
Esther. " The same doctors that brought you
here brought me here too."

That proves nothing."

It proves everything. Those doctors were
hired by a wretch, an accomplice of your husband,
I know it well."

"How did you, if you knew the plot, allow
yourself to come here ? "

'"' I came here willingly."

Willingly ? to this place ? *'

Aye, right willingly. I want a hiding place.
I am being looked for."

By the police, young woman? '^ —

'' No, not by the police. By a lawyer."

'' You don't mean to say you are the woman
whom my idiotic sister helped at the Grosvenor
Hotel last year ? "

^' I was helped last year in sore distress, but
she who helped me was an angel from heaven."

An angel indeed ! That's the first time I have
heard Dorothy Crosthwaite called an angel."

"Dorothy? Dorothy' said Esther musing.
I like that name, It was my baby girl's.^^ Then
aloud, " Yes, an angel of heaven. Then you are her
sister? I thought I remembered the face. There
is a difference, it is true."

"A difference — I hope so."

She had a sweet face, and there was something
touching in seeing so childlike a smile on her
wrinkled lips."

Wrinkled, yes, yes, she has wrinkles."

You do not love your sister, I see," said Esther,
^' she merits your love, I am sure."

She is a big fool. She is always doing odd
things ; she ought to come here a little. I am
sure it would do her good. She was jealous of my
marriage, and for all the nonsense you have said
about dear Bartie, I believe it was she who got
me brought here. She wanted to get married
herself, to a mere boy, a Charles Bensberk or
Lawson, or some name like that. She loved
him."

'•' Say that again, say that again," said Esther,
excitedly.

Aye, I will. She loved a lad, a chance child,
called Charles Benson, ah ! yes, that's it."

She loved him ? "

*' Yes, like an old fool."

She loved him ? "

'' Yes.^^

'' Then," said Esther, with infinite sweetness,
the time has come when I can show Dorothy

that I am not ungrateful. Good-bye, Mrs. Hiram.
There will be a stir in this accursed house tonight."
And so saying, she gathered her cloak
round her, and ran swiftly out of the room. A
letter, which had been in her pocket, fell to the
ground. Apparently she did not notice it, but
ran on and left it lying on the floor.

Sabine saw it fall, and picked it up. Taking it
to the light she read the address —

To Mrs. Esther White,
'poor Ward,

'^ Peckham Lodge,

Cease Street

'' South Kensington."

ril read it' she said. " Mrs. Hiram, indeed."
And taking the letter from the envelope, she
read as follows : —

My Angel Girl,

I tell you I loves you, y ? be so crewel
to me, and treet.my part with distance. I got you
run in and will get you run out. I 8 Bartlemy,
and 8 all his jobs. Y? can't you Jove me as I
loves you and I would help you to get jour revenge
enim. We are doing a Big Job this time. We've
got scent of a lawyer's job, and shall make a pile.
I get £2000. With this we 2 could be happy.
We are going to rest a bloke called Charles
Benson, al i ass Orberk, and I'm on his track

This done we are sure of the Pile. If you want
to get out from the Follies

'' Send a smile,
From above
Full of love,

on your devoted dove.

'^ Chizzlem Snorker."

Sabine had only just finished reading this
curious epistle when Esther darted in again.
Seeing the letter in Sabine's possession she rushed
forward, and snatching it out of her hand, darted
away again as quickly as she had come.

That night there was a stir at Peckham Lodge.
A patient who, on account of her tranquillity and
general good behaviour, had been allowed larger
liberties than the others, had escaped from the
house.

That patient was Esther White.

END OF VOL. II.

■MMHMiia

W

ii£>

OF THE
U N IVLR5ITY
or Ill Noise

WHISPERS.

A VOLUME OF LYRICAL POEMS,

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shepard.

Printed on Special Dutch Handmade Paper, and
bound in Parchment.

Price Six Shillings.

REMINGTON & CO.,
134, New Bond Street, London, W.

.a jaobcL

IX THREE VOLUMES.

ROBERT HARBOROUGH Shepard.

VOL. III.

Quae medicaments non savant, ferrum sant,
Quae ferrum non sant, ignis sant.

HIPP0CBATK5.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/barteredhonourno03sher

Chapter I.

CHARLES IS ARRESTED.

We left Charles grinding away at the review,
which at the orders of his employer, the editor of
the Clapham Mercury, he was preparing on the
book of poems by James Mangles. Grinding, aye,
for no work is less sympathetic to a man, himself
an author, who, wishing to be just, has to review
the work of a contemporary. We find him six
hours later burning the midnight oil over his unfinished
task. He had finished his critique on the
Cherry Leaf," and was now entering upon the
"Will-o'-the-wisp" department. It need hardly
be said that these poems were not worthy of the
name of poems, or anything but imbecile and
weak strings of rhymes, which were often na
rhymes.

In the first part of the book the author had
imitated Swinburne, in the second Wordsworth
Charles had little sympathy with the poetry of the
Lakes. In his mind, and to his thinking, poetry,
the hand-maid of music, ought to appeal to the

VOL. III. B

higher senses and not to the reason, should charm
but not weary, intoxicate but not fuddle. Philosophical
studies he had always avoided ; to him
philosophy seemed a big note of interrogation,
which never got ann answer, or like the eight-armed
pierre, ever stretching out new feelers without
ever attaining anything, and thus fruitless and
discouraging and wearying. Poetry should not
breed weariness, he thought, and as the poetry
of Wordsworth seemed to him here to convey
botanical memoria technical, there metaphysical
theses, he eschewed Wordsworth and his followers.
It was therefore with some weariness that he
entered upon the second part of the book, prefaced
by the author —

To William Wordsworth,

Who "uttered nothing base,"

This Department (sic)

is

Dedicated

By the Author.

The first poem, " The Blooming Daisy' he
passed over — it called for no comment. The
second, third, fourth and fifth were on the well-known
topics '^ On Seeing a Puppy Wag his Tail,"
*' The Dying Swan'' " On Receiving a Musical
Box from a Young Lady of Eight," " The Penultimate
Rose of Summer," " The Baby's Awakening."
The sixth, however, took his attention. It was a
set of rhymes to Mildred M — , composed at
Sorrento, and as amatory as a writer of Simple

Poetry could, consistent with the rules of his art,
indite.

The first verse will suffice to show what the
singing bard " could do in the way of poetry, and
prove that James Mangles-Peebles-Mangles had
cast an eye of passion on Mildred Merton.

Oh, Mildred,

Who from o'er the seas,
Didst, wafted

By the zephyr breeze,
To me, Britannia's

Lowly son,
To be of happiness

My sum
To me, the singing bard,

Didst come.

"Poor Herbert," said Charles, flinging the book
into a corner and bringing his review to a hurried
close, " is this fellow, who has marred my life, to
step in your path also ; for I know that you love
Mildred, and that Mildred loves you."

Then, with a head aching and ringing with
the rhymes dinned into it, the young reviewer
went to bed.

Evil dreams were his that night, tho' evolving
from bright fancies. He thought he was once
more wandering through the Silent City, that it
was eventide, and all the skies were aflame with
rosy light, that once more he stood in the deserted
ruin of the temple of Venus, that once more, with
trembling hand and swelling heart, he plucked a
handful of wild flowers and laid them on the stone,
whilst his lips breathed forth the name of
Euphrosyne, that she came blushing from behind
a marble pillar and took her place by his side

before the crumbling stone , and put her arm round
his neck, and laid her head upon his breast, and
that they were both too happy to speak, but that
their pure and sweet souls went forth into the
rosy air like two white doves, and fluttered in the
sky. That they stood thus watching them, what
time seemed to him an eternity of bliss; that
suddenly a hideous bird of prey leaped from a
recess and with croaking voice and flapping wings
darted on the two symbols of their love, and drove
one one way the other another way into the night,
and that Euphrosyne, clinging tightly to him,
wept for the havoc done, that he was caressing
her, when a mighty black hand pushed him away
from her arms, and a voice cried, '' Go bastard,
go pariah, the pure are not for thee," and that
he fell down and prayed that the burning lava,
and the cinders, and the dust, and the fire, and the
whirl-wind might come upon and bury him and
his aching heart as of yore they buried the site
where he lay.

It was but a dream, and yet the sorrow of it
clung to him when he woke, for

Dreams in their development have breath,
And tears, and tortures, and the touch of joy ;
They leave a weight upon our waking thoughts.

He turned round feverishly, and saw on the table
by his bedside a letter from Florence.

Letter from Euphrosyne de Bienaimee.
,"Mt Dearest Charles,

I have just come back from the
country, and have found all your dear letters

waiting for me. They made me very happy and
yet intensely miserable. Intensely miserable
because from them I see that you are still in
ignorance of what has happened to me. I asked
Bianca to write to you and tell. I had not the
heart to. And then, how cruel things are, you
never received the letter, and I must write,
though I would rather die than give you one
moment's pain.

''O, darling, to think that all this month T have
never had an hours peace, never a quiet night,
never any calm, while you were in ignorance of my
suffering. All the time and most when I felt
most desolate, I had a slight solace in the thought
that you too were grieving, and my stricken soul
seemed to go forth and meet yours in sympathy.

Ditto mio, must I tell you ? It is now thirty
long days since my troth, plighted to you in all
love and in all sincerity, has been broken, and
well-nigh my heart too, by my mother. I am
engaged against my will, against my nature,
against my \erj life, to the man, whom, like a
foolish child, methought I once loved.

*' Need I tell you how it all came about, need I
lacerate your heart, dear heart, by telling you all
I have suffered, and the farce I have had to play
in? The public announcement, the white dress,
which now lies in a thousand tatters, trodden
beneath my feet, the congratulations, his kiss
upon my cheek, which I have struck since then a
hundred times, in anger and shame at the thought
that he had kissed me, when you, you, you alone

have the right. For never will I be any man's
but yours, never shall another kiss me save yon,.
sposo mio.

I have been bnt a child. I used to think that
there was no suffering here, that all was so
beautiful that no one need be unhappy. I never
knew of tears, of tears that burn the eyes.

lo Bon pensive che lo cor grammar

Averse di sospir torment tanto,
Che daU'aiiima mai necesse piano ;

Otranto per lo vis gli occhi morte.

But now I know it, and now I feel it, and now,
an I could, I would lie down like a tired child

And weep away this life of care.

I love you truly. That you are unhappy, that
you are an outcast, makes you more precious tome,
for being unhappy, I would make you happy,
and in my bosom the outcast should be at rest.

*^ And what think you are the noble motives
that impel this man, whose honour you saved, to
persecute me ? What think you are the motives
of my mother? She, because she knows I love
you, and because in her pride of family she
thinks you an inferior, and he, because he has
again wasted his fortune, and my dowry will
retrieve it, drive me to a sacrifice of feeling,
honour, life. Life, for I will not, I can not now
live without you.

Either write to my mother and tell her that you
have found that your birth and your parents are
irreproachable, or come to Florence and take me
away. I would leave all for your sake, and wander

away with, you, even to the greatest poverty. I
know no poverty, having your love. — Heart of my
heart, actio.

*' Ever, ever your loving,

Euphrosyne."

Charles got up, dressed quickly and ran out into
the street.

'the nearest telegraph offices' he cried
addressing a passer-by.

Directed to it, he ran off, entered the office, and
dashed off the following telegram : —

"Mademoiselle de Bienaimee.

*■' Florence.
Will come.

'^Caelo.^'

He had scarcely finished this hurried missive
and was handing it to the clerk, when two men
accompanied by a policeman entered the office.

There he is, there he is," cried Luke Bennett,
who was one of the party.

'^ Yes, that's 'im," cried Snorker, the other.

Officer, do your duty," said Mr. Bennett.

The policeman advanced, and roughly laying
his hand on Charles's shoulder, said to the
astonished and wildly indignant young man —

Bill Kedges, I take you into custody."

*' What for ? are you mad ? " said Charles.

What for? " cried Luke Bennett, " what for?
Eor stealing my watch on board the Southampton
steamer, last year. Ah, young man, evil deeds
always find you out."

"Ah, that the do," said Snorker, and reverently
turning up the whites of his eyes to the
ceiling, added " for which 'even be praised'

Now then, no nonsense," said the policeman,
'^ come along. You've got to come with me."

I have got to do nothing of the sort," said
Charles, thrusting the officer aside. " This is thee
most preposterous affair, my name is not William,
nor can I claim any kindred to the Kedges'
family. You have made a mistake, or are playing
the fool."

** Come," said Luke Bennett, advancing, " you
can't deny having seen me before."

^' I do not deny it. I met you on board the
steamer from Hamburg,"

"There," said Snorker, turning to the policeman,
" he confesses all."

I do not deny," continued Charles, " having
met you, I can further say that I knew your watch
was stolen, and sold immediately after the theft,
and I charge that fellow who is with you with
that theft."

Oh Lor ! " said Snorker, " the inference of
the feller."

Look 'ere," said the policeman taking hold of
Charles. " I know nothing about all this, wot I
know is that I have to take you into custody, by
force if required, and bring you up before the
magistrates, so come on."

What Charles might have done is not certain,
for he was so angry at the occurrence, and so
upset by the letter he received, that he had lost

all control over himself, and would most probably
have acted very prejudicially to himself, had not
an old gentleman, who formed one of the crowd
which had now gathered in and about the office,
given him the very sensible advice to go quietly,
and prove his innocence before the magistrate.
Charles recognised that this was his best plan
and allowed himself to be escorted to the station,
whence he was presently brought before the bench
of the Clapham magistrates, charged as Bill
Kedges with having feloniously stolen from the
person of Mr. Luke Bennett, a gold watch value
£100.

Without listening to his explanations, the
magistrate, who appeared to recognise in him
an old and frequently punished offender, took
the depositions of the prosecutor and his witness,
and remanded the prisoner for one week, in
order to give time to the prosecutor to bring
the pawnbroker who had bought the watch from
the prisoner, into court. Mr. Snorker stated
iihat they should have no difficulty in so doing,
that the pawnbroker was well-known to him,
and was of the name of Barlow.

Charles was accordingly remanded. Bail was
not allowed, indeed the prisoner did not ask for
it. The love of adventure was a ruling passion
in him, and then, as a writer, he wanted to gain
as much experience as possible of all things,
and was rather interested in the part he had to
play.

He went to prison, but what was his distress.

when, "being searched, the crumpled telegram was
found in his pocket. He had not been able to send
it, and had forgotten it during the scene in the
post-office.

Poor little Euphrosyne !

Esther's story.

That evening Mr. Bennett received two messages,.
one from Italy, a telegram, and a note from
Clapham.

The telegram ran as follows : —

"J. G. Bennett, Esq., Lincoln's Inn, London.
Add £200 to the reward offered for the discovery
of Esther Lovell.

Herbert Lovell,

Sorrento.-"

The note came from Clapham police-station,
and ran —

Dear Sib,

You can help me now — I am in prison, on
remand, on a false charge. Will you come and
see me ? ''

Yours,

"Charles Hauberk."
(Benson.)

To have seen the worthy little barrister after he
had finished reading the two epistles one would
certainly have judged him to be suffering from a
relapse, and a very severe one, into the brain fever
he had undergone.

Leaping bodily into the air, shouting, clapping

his hands, laughing, then seizing '^ Brougham
Common Law " and flinging it at an old bust of
the late legal Blackstone, boxing his office boy's
ears, and then condoning the offence with the
presentation of a shilling, running about his
chambers as if undecided what to do or where to
^o first, he represented rather an inmate of Dr.
Phillipot's establishment than a member of so
serious a corporation as the Honourable Society
of Lincoln's Inn.

By the powers,'^ he cried, when at last, exhausted
by the violent and irregular exercise in
which he had indulged, he sank into his chair.
'' By the powers, the very moment I was beginning
to despair I find them both. Now all that is
wanting is " —

Miss Esther Lovell,'^ said the office boy, showing
in a lady, and grinning at his employer, who,
however, sat with his mouth wide open, and
apparently having lost all confidence in his ears
and his eyes. "Miss Esther Lovell, sir," said
the boy again.

"Yes, yes, William," said Mr. Bennett, "very
good, I thank you. You may retire, William, and
close the door, William. To what, madam," continued
the barrister, turning with the same vacant
look to his visitor, " to what am I indebted for the
honour of your visit ? "

I have come to " — said Esther.

The vacant look on Mr. Bennett's face changed
suddenly to one of astonishment. He at last
realized that he was once more sitting face to face

with, the person lie had so vigorously and industriously
searched for, and leaping to his feet
he cried, " Why, are you Esther Lovell ? " Then
running to the door he locked it, drew the key,
placed it in his pocket, and returned to his seat.
Esther kept quite quiet, and waited for the
barrister to speak.

Mr. Bennett, after feasting his eyes on her for
some time in silence, rose, and ever keeping watch
on her, walked backwards to the desk where he
kept his papers, opened a drawer, and taking out
a huge bundle of papers, labelled " Hauberk " —
"Lovell," returned to his seat, and arming himself
with a pen and about a ream of assorted stationery,
addressed the lady.

"Will you allow me a few questions ? "

"Yes."

Your name is, I believe, Esther Lovell ? "

My maiden name was so."

"Your maiden name, exactly. You are the
daughter of the late Eev. John Herbert Lovell, of
St. Peters Port, Guernsey, and of the late Millicent
Lovell, his wife ? ''

"Yes."

You have, or had, a sister called Dora ? "

"Yes."

"Your parents died while you were very
young''

"They did."

You removed from Guernsey after their deaths
and went to live with an uncle in Broseley in
Shropshire."

'ewe did."

Your sister Dora did not get on very well with
this uncle. They used to quarrel ? "

I believe so. I can hardly remember."

Still you can remember how it ended ? ''

Yes."

'rit was thus. I will read you that paragraph
of your history , and if you can correct me I shall
be obliged. You, Esther Lovell, were a posthumous
child, and your mother died giving birth to
you. Your sister Dora, who was fourteen years
old when you were born, and you were then placed
with some relatives of your mother who lived in
the island. When you were two years old you
were removed with your sister to the house of
your uncle, Stanley Lovell, who used to live at
Broseley ; with him you stayed one year. Your
sister Dora, then nearly seventeen, could not agree
with this uncle, and one night, after a violent
quarrel with that gentleman, she came into your
room where you were sleeping, and taking you
from your bed dressed you and, carrying you in
her arms, fled from the house. She took you to
London, and you lived there in great poverty.
How you were maintained you cannot, of course,
know, but you may perhaps remember that one
night after you had been six months in London
your sister came home accompanied by a gentleman
" —

How can I remember it ? " said Esther nervously,
'' I was only three and a half years old."

"Accompanied by a gentleman, who kissed

Dora and their kissed you, and called you his little
sister. Next day you left your miserable lodging,
and accompanied by this gentleman and your
sister you went a long journey, to Scotland, in
fact. There you all lived together in a pretty
little cottage in a village near Elirkoswald, in
Ayrshire. When you were more than four years
old a boy was born to your sister. Shortly after
his birth you all took another long journey, back
to England, to a splendid country house in
Leicestershire, called Appledean Manor. You
lived there some time. The gentleman was not
quite so kind as he had been, and he and Dora
used to quarrel. One day they had a very violent
quarrel, and Dora ran away from Appledean,
taking you with her. After that you went to ^' —

Ah, you know no more,'^ said Esther, with a
little tone of triumph.

Oh, but I do," said the lawyer calmly. " After
that you went to London, and went into lodgings
in Richmond, where soon another little boy was
born. You then left Richmond and went to? " —

Note of interrogations said Esther.

Partly," said Mr. Bennett, smiling " might I
suggest America ? New York ? "

Esther was silent.

I will be frank with your's said Mr. Bennett.
*' 1 do not know any more. I want you to tell the
rest."

I cannot."

But you must."

I cannot. I don't remember. I only remember

being at New York, and what you tell me about
my childhood I learnt from my sister."

What became of that sister ? ''

I don't know''

*' When did you see her last? "

'' I don't remember."

Why give me all this trouble ? " said Bennett,
rather testily, " I know where to find her, or at
least the son who was born at Richmond."

<' Herbert?" cried Esther.

'' Yes, he is in " —

London ! " cried Esther, rising. '^ Oh, let me

go."

No, not in London, I wish he was. See, read
this telegram."

Esther seized the telegram, and read its contents
with the most marked excitement, then she
said —

Well, and why have you been offering rewards
for me. Do you want to prosecute us ? "

Prosecute you ? No. Oh, prosecute, oh. Ah
yes, perhaps."

What, for running away ? "

Perhaps."

But you can't."

'' The law can do many things."

Esther looked anxiously at the barrister, then
rose, and walked about the room. She said —

I know you of course. I recognized you at
the Grosvenor. I remember seeing you at Apple-dean.
You gave me a ride on your knee. Then,
when, you spoke about Lord you know, I could

not help remembering you. You were a solicitor
then , you are a barrister now. But I did not come
here to talk about that, or to tell you anything
about my sister; it is years since we saw each
other. I come to tell you of a foul plot that is going
on, and to aslv you to help me, because I want to
help the dear lady who helped me."

'not that little old lady who hid you away
from me, and has given me all this trouble to find
you?"

Yes, she hid me away because I begged and
prayed her on my knees to do so. I did not want
to see you.-"

Why not ; were you afraid ? "

Yes. I did not want all that old affair to come
out. It was a dead secret that wanted no resuscitating.
I owed that to Dora and her son, because,
if it had all come out, her peace would have
been destroyed, and then, and then, I had been
wicked and foolish, and I did not want my past to
come out either. 1 don't want it now, and I warn
you I will tell you nothing about her. My story I
will, because it will help you to clear up the matter
I refer to."

What is it? " said Bennett, rather impatiently,
I have very little time to spare."

Look here," said Esther, handing him the letter
she had received from Snorker. " The dear ladyloves
Benson, and I want to save him."

Mr. Bennett seized hold of the letter with an
excitement which contrasted vividly with the iu-

VOL. III. c

difference he had previously expressed, and having'
mastered its contents, and taken a copy thereof, he
jumped up and looked at his watch.

Too latest' he muttered, "it is too late to go
down to-night. Here, William, run to the nearest
telegraph office, and send a message to Bill Kedges,
Clapham Common Police Station, saying I will
come tomorrow morning."

Then as the boy darted off to execute the commission,
he called out —

No, no, I'll—" but it was too late. Then he
put his head between his hands, and said, " I
almost wish I had never had anything to do with
it. It is so complicated, and so troublesome, and
so many fresh difficulties arise everywhere, that I
feel almost unable to unravel the affair, and were
it not for the promise I gave to a dying man, I
would run away."

Turning to Esther, he added rather irritably —

And now, young lady, what have you given me
all this trouble for ? I have spent several hundred
pounds looking for you. Why could not you come
forward before ? "

I have told you why, it is just because I did
not want the past to come out, for my sake and
my sister's sake."

And you came now 9 "

To tell you of this plot, directed by a pair of
scoundrels, against someone who is dear to the
kind lady who helped me so noble"

Yes, yes. I see the plot. These two fellows
have got hold of the secret and want to work it to

their profit. But you know who they are, and will
tell me."

*^ I will, my condition being that you do your
best to help this Benson."

I will, of course."

Well, when I left New York, after quarrelling
with Dora, I went as a governess to the children
of a rich merchant in X. where I stayed for two
years. During that time I became acquainted with
a gentleman, a Mr. White, a merchant, who asked
me to marry him, and whom I married. I lived
happily with him for some time, and had a daughter,
a dear, dear little girl."

Here Esther broke down, and could not proceed
for some time. When she had recovered, she continued
—

But after her birth, my husband, instead of
being kinder to me, changed very much. He used
to leave me all day alone, and very often all night
too. I felt very dull and any companion was welcome
to me. It was thus that I did not repel the
advances, which, at this time, one of the partners
of my husband's house began to make to me. He
knew how to make himself very agreeable, and,
though at first I was disgusted and frightened at
his appearance, in my loneliness any companion
who would treat me kindly was welcome. Another
thing served to get me into this scoundrel's power.
Mr. White, a most hard-headed business man, was
very chary in supplying me with money for housekeeping,
and yet was most exacting that everything
should be nice, and even luxurious. I was thus

often in difficulties in money matters, and most
foolishly borrowed from time to time from the
scoundrel I speak of. Well, I will not enter into
details, suffice it to say that one day, maddened
by the reproaches my husband had heaped upon
me for some trifling omission on my part, and,
feeling myself utterly compromised, and quite in
the power of the man, I consented, my heartbreaking,
and half mad with shame, to leave my
home, and flee with this man. We came to
England and travelled about Europe. I then
learnt that this scoundrel had stolen a large sum
of the firm's money, and had abandoned his own
wife in the most heartless manner. At Monaco
we made the acquaintance of another ruffian, the
fellow whose letter you have read. They used to
frequent the tables, with the usual result. My
seducer lost everything, and sold all my jewels
and even my clothes, but this money was lost too.
Then they engaged in a forgery, and swindled a
firm of bankers at Marseilles out of a large sum,
which went to the tables, and remained there.
When I heard of this last villany, I resolved to
stay with them no longer, but fled. I reached
England after a series of adventures and sufferings
which I will not relate, and lived in London
some time on a little money which I had reserved,
foreseeing the time when I should have to part
with the man who had worked my ruin.

'-" I had been in London some months when I
met him again. I followed him and found his
address, and wrote to him to come and see me.

My reason for doing so was to beg him to marry
me, for I had seen in the American papers that
my husband had divorced me, and that his wife,
poor woman, had died. This internal took place,
and we parted after a bitter quarrel. The cur refused
to do me justice, and told me he was married.
It was a lie. I know that now, and knew it then.
I struck him. I'm glad of that."

I can supply an account of what you did
next," said the barrister, who had listened with
great interest to her narrative. " After your
interview with this man you fled from the house,
leaving this locket."

"Ah," cried Esther, "that locket. How did
you get it?"

I got it from the people, on paying a small
sum you owed. They bear you no ill-will."

Heaven thank you, sir. I have regretted few
things so bitterly as having had to rob those
wretched people. The woman was so kind to me
that my heart bled to think I was deceiving, robbing
her."

There was no deception or robbery," said the
barrister kindly. " The pledge you left was
worth twenty times the debt. Please continue
your narrative."

Twenty times ! " cried Esther, " twenty million
times ; it encased in the days of my innocence — in
days, which when compared to these latter ones
seem but bright dreams engendered by a maniac
brain — the portrait of my child, my fair-gained
darling. You want to hear the sequel of my story.

When 1 had crept, feeling like the meanest wretch
alive, out of the poor house which had sheltered
me so long, I found myself in the street penniless,
hungry, ill-clad, and not knowing where to go to.
I wandered about this great city all that day, and
not a morsel passed my lips. That night I slept
with other outcasts under a railway arch. The
next morning, famishing, and more dead than
alive, I began to wander again. I had no plan to
follow, no object, all I wanted to do was to get
away from the river, from the cold muddy river,
which seemed to draw me to it with irresistible
force, and bid me take in it a refuge from all my
sorrow, all my shame, all my remorse.

That night I met him again, and, in my suffering,
my bodily want and pain having deafened all
the dictates of my pride and hatred, I, yes I,
actually clung to him and begged of him, were it
but a crust of bread. Cruel wretch, he flung me
from him with a blow, and I fell utterly exhausted
and bleeding from the head into the muddy gutter.
There he left me, and there I should have been
left, had it not been that there are some kind
hearts among mankind. A little old lady, a timid
little body from the country, scared and bewildered
at all the noise and bustle, jostled and hurried
by the crowd, a little old woman, simply clad,
wearing spectacles, with hardly enough courage
to cross the road, or to make her way among all
the passers-by, such a one, I say, took pity on me,
and, braving scorn and ridicule, had me borne,
filthy, bleeding, horrible to look at, from the

gutter of London, into one of its proudest hotels.
There I met you, and thence, on that account, I
fled. She took me to '^ —

Burton Eow, Westminster, to a Mrs. Rebecca
Martin's, where you were visited by a man giving
my name, the name of John Bennett," put in the
barrister.

"' Ha,^' said Esther, '^ you have tracked me well.
The man was none other than that scoundrel."

"You have not yet named him," said Mr.
Bennett.

It were difficult. His name changes every
month. His real name is Milwaukee Bartholomew,
and his most frequent alias is " —

Bartlemy Hiram," cried the barrister. " By
God, I see it all now. What an accursed fool I
have been ! "

TRAP FOR Barley.

*' Yes/^ said the barrister turning to Esther and
apologizing for the vehemence of his language, "I
have been a fool. I myself told my story to this
man, and he is now working it to his profit. It
was in order to keep Charles Benson away from me
that he has engaged in this affair and had him
arrested."

Who is Charles Benson ? " asked Esther. " You
seem to know him."

Charles Benson is Charles Hauberk — your
sister Dora's son."

What ? " cried Esther. " Then the boy lived ! "

'' Yes. Your nephew is alive."

Esther looked at the barrister for a long time in
silence. Then she said —

^' Why have you taken all this trouble ? Can you
repair the mischief? Can you undo my sister's
shame ? What reparation can you bring ? "

Time will show' said the barrister. '' I may be
able to repair many things."

'' You can never undo this treachery. You cannot
recall the past."

I do not say. There are so many difficulties
in my way. I have so long neglected the matter
that the work is very great now. That confounded
illness upset me, and for many years drove all sane

ideas out of my head. Well, I will not talk of
this now. Finish your story."

'^ I will," said Esther. '' As you know, I went
from the Grosvenor Hotel to Burton's Row, and
there I was persecuted by Hiram. He came to tell
me that he knew my sister's story, and threatened
to publish it abroad if I did not promise to be
silent. You see he had reasons to fear me, who
knew of his villanies, of his embezzlement and
forgery. I wanted to spare my poor sister, and so
I was silent, but I tasted a little revenge even then,
and, woman though I am, I beat him like a dog.
He left me alone then ; but I used to be visited
by his accomplice, Snorker, who professed to love
me, but with whom I had only one matter in common,
and that was hate for Hiram. I lived on in
London, earning my bread by copying for authors;
at that time I first saw your advertisements. I recognized
your name, and knowing that you knew
our past I hid from yoa. At last work failed, and
I was once again cast into the streets. This was
two or three months ago. I was in great fear lest
m}^ poverty would bring me into the hands of the
authorities, and that my name becoming known
you would find me out. I thought of the river
again, but was saved by a new villany on the part
of this Hiram. For reasons known to himself,
which you will probably be now able to recognize,
he wished me to be put away, and, acting through
Snorker, tried to get me shut up. Snorker came
to me and told me that his ' pal ' had commissioned
him to get me locked up in a lunatic asylum.

and urged me to yield to his advances and leave
London with him. I refused, of course, and told
him that I should be glad of any refuge. I
accordingly acted a part, and he, seeing no alternative
but to obey Hiram's orders, availed himself
of my compliance, and having told me to act in a
certain way, had me taken up before a magistrate,
and, with the testimony of two hired doctors, swore
to my insanity. I played my part well, for my
own purposes, not for theirs, was sent to a lunatic
asylum, the Peckham Lodge Asylum, which
though a private establishment, receives a certain
number of pauper patients free of charge. I was
very glad to have a home at last, anything was
better than the streets or the charity of the two
scoundrels, and there I was quite safe from you,
for I feared you, perhaps foolishly. I was there
till yesterday night, when I learnt that Hiram
had committed a fresh villany, and that his
second wife was also confined in the same house.
I do not know what his motives were, they were
assuredly bad ones, for I think it must be because
she has money and he wants to get it. Anyhow
I managed to see her. Fancy, it was the sister
of the dear lady that took pity on me, but not a
bit like her though — spiteful and cross, as she
well may be, poor thing, shut up there and married
to him."

'^ The infamous scoundrel ! " put in Mr. Bennett.

Ape, an infamous scoundrel. Well, from her
I learned that this Charles Benson, spoken about
in a letter I had received from Snorker, was a love

of Dorothy Crosthwaite's. I then resolved to
escape and come to sou, and in return to get you
to help me to save this Charles and also to rescue
Dorothy's sister. There, now you know the long
and short of it."

Mr. Bennett rose, and lighting two candles, for
it had grown quite dark now, placed them on the
table.

Then bidding Esther wait, he hid his face in
his hands and remained thus lost in thought for
some time. At last he looked up and said —

Tell me what became of your sister."

'that I can— that I will not," said Esther.

How absurd you are," said the barrister irritably.
"Why should you put difficulties in my
way when I have more than enough already ? I
tell you I mean harm neither to you, nor to your
sister, nor to her sons. On the contrary, I might
benefit you largely, and it is to do this that I ask
you."

I tell you again I do not know. I did not
write much to Dora after I left New York. I do
not know where she is now. Yon say you have
found Herbert ; he will know, he will be able to tell
you."

Why, of course," cried Bennett, starting to
his feet ; " what an idiot I am. But my poor head
and my poor memory"

Then, seizing his hat, he rushed to the door and
unlocked it, passed out, locked Esther in, and ran
in haste downstairs, into the street, and to the
nearest telegraph office open for night service*

There he sent off the following message to
Herbert Lovell: —

Mr. Herbert Lovell, Sorrento.
"Dear Sir,

Have found Esther, and now want to
find your mother. If with you, bring her to England.
Most important.

"J. Gr. Bennett."

Meanwhile Esther had been holding commune
with herself. Her only object was to be
revenged on the man who had ruined her, and who
had brought her from a comfortable home to the
streets, from the tender caresses of a darling
child to the rough buffets of the harsh, unpitying
world. It was with this object in view that she
had come to Bennett, and with no other, save
the minor one of in some measure clearing off the
deep obligation under which she rested to the
little old lady." She was fully resolved to be
silent about her sister, for she did not know what
might be the lawyer's motives in wishing for information.
She knew that he knew about her
sister's connection with the Earl of Brookshire,
and about her flight from Appledean, and Esther
had vague notions that this flight might be punishable,
and, though herself she dreaded no punishments,
she did not wish to cause her sister or her
sister's son, the dear friend of her youth, to suffer.

What can it all mean ? " she said, as she
paced up and down the chamber awaiting Mr.
Bennett's return. " What does he want with us ?

So the other boy lived. All live, even I who would
so gladly rest. Ah, rest."

Mr. Bennett's hurried entrance interrupted her
reverie. Turning to him, she said —

Now once for all, sir, tell me what you want
with me, and what you want with Dora, and what
you want with us all, and what you are going todo,
and what is the object ? "

That I cannot just yet. I must have you all
together first, and then I will speak and then I
will act."

AU together ? " cried Esther. " What ? Are
you going to bring me face to face with Dora with
Herbert ? Do you forget my shame ? "

Tush ! " said Mr. Bennett, impatiently.
Your sister and nephew ain't ogres. What you
did was wrong, I don't deny that, very wrong
perhaps, but then it was greatly your husband's
fault, and still more the fault of that reverend
gentleman whose little games will receive a sudden
check, and sooner perhaps than he thinks."

'' Say that again' cried Esther, her eyes brightening.
" Say that again. Say that you will trap
him, expose all his evil doings, and punish him,
and you will make me happy. Happy, if I can ever
be so again."

Certainly I am, and first I want you to give me
the name and address of your husband's firm."

That I will not."

*' Then the name and address of the bankers at
Marseilles, to whose prejudice he and his confederate
committed the forgery you spoke of."

I will — stay, it was the Credit Bordelais, the
Marseilles Succursale.'^

*' Can sou explain the nature of the fraud ? "

"I think so, it was a common forgery. Bartholomew
forged the signature of the Count of
Belmont to a cheque for a large amount on this
hank, and Snorker presented and cashed it."

Was it not detected at the time? "

I do not know. When Snorker returned to
Monaco with the money, and I learned the nature
of the proceeding, I, as I have already told you,
left them and fled, but I think the answer to your
question is plain. They cannot have been detected
since they are about England."

No, you are right. Of course not, then this is
the means of punishing these two scoundrels."

Yes, yes," said Esther.

Now leave that to me," said the barrister,
*' and do not be afraid that I shall spare them. A
man who has injured Esther Lovell, and is attempting
to injure Charles Hauberk, and worst of
all a man who is trying to outwit John George Bennett,
has very small claim on my considerations.
Leave that to me. But now I want to speak about
yon. What do you propose to do ? You say you
have no means. Where will you go to to-night ? "

"Oh," said Esther, wearily. "Now that you
have promised to do this for me and Dorothy, I
ware little for the rest. I will go back to Peckham
Lodge. I shall be welcome there."

You will do nothing of the sort," said Mr.
Bennett with emphasis. " No more disreputable

adventures for Esther Lovell, if you please. You
must accept a loan from me'

A loan," said Esther. " You mean a gift."

No, no, a loan. Soon sou will be rich."

'^ How so?"

Wait and see. Stay," said the barrister, after
a moment's reflection. " I know. There is that
Mrs. Carter, who keeps a family boarding-house
in Palgrave Square, a dear kind woman, who
would make you very comfortable, and then,"
he added to himself, " I can get Brother Luke to
look after her and see that she doesn't run away
again. Yes, yes. We'll go to Palgrave Square'

Esther assented, and in a few minutes found
herself in a cab, by Bennett's side, driving to Pal-grave
Square, and reaching it, she was set down
with her companion before a nice-looking house,
the family boarding-house kept by an excellent
old lady, a Mrs. Carter, who was on very friendly
terra with Mr. Bennett. This gentleman made
all the necessary arrangements, and asked Mrs.
Carter to buy Esther any clothes or necessaries
she might stand in need of.

Leaving Esther in the charge of this lady, Mr.
Bennett took his departure and made his way to
the house occupied by his brother, Luke Bennett.

He found him in, and in the company of his
other brother, Robert Bennett, the physician, who
attended Esther at the Grosvenor Hotel.

They were sitting together at the dinner-table,
drinking their port, and talking of this and
that.

As the barrister entered the room he heard the
word '' Bill Kedges."

Who is Bill Kedges ? " he said, stepping forward.


Ah, John, is it you ?" said Luke, rising. " You
old fox, you never come near us now, and Bob, too,
he says you seem to have forgotten his existence
Here, sit down, and take a glass of port. It is not
bencher's port, I know, but generally appreciated
by poor mortals."

Thanks," said the barrister. " I know I have-neglected
you sadly, dear brothers, but you know
I am fearfully busy, and am getting my case into
splendid order."

Luke looked at Bob, and Bob looked at Luke
and they both smiled significantly.

1 came here to-day," said the barrister, " to
ask you, Luke, to look after a young woman I have
placed in Mrs. Carters house opposite, you know.
I particularly want her to stay there, and she has
strange impulses at times and runs away."

Does she affect your case ? " said Bob Bennett.


"Yery much," answered the barrister. " Yery
much indeed. So, Luke, if you would not mind
calling there once or twice a day, and asking Mrs.
Carter how Mrs. White is getting on, I should be
obliged. If any bad news is given, you must wire
it to me at Lincoln's Inn."

*^ All right," said Luke, winking at Bob.

I know you think me mad, Luke," said the
lawyer, who had noticed the wink, " and you are

not the only one of that opinion. Yon know that
cursed brain fever of mine, Bob, paralyzes me
still at times, and makes me quite powerless at
moments. But what I am doing now is no piece
of folly."

At least," said Luke , " I hope you're not out
of pocket by it. I suppose you'll get your expenses
paid."

You wretched old business man," said John
Bennett, laughing. " Always with your eyes on
the main chance. My expenses were paid long
ago. But look here ; when I came in you were
telling Bob about a young man called Kedges ;
what was it ? "

Oh," said Luke, '^ a young scoundrel who stole
my watch — the watch, you know, given me by his
Grace ; a long time ago it happened when I was
returning from Hamburg. I had him arrested, and
he is now in prison on remanded'

Where ? "

At Clapham."

At Clapham ; it is the same."

"Same what?"

Same young man. Look here, Luke, you must
not go on with this case."

"Why not?"

The young man is not Bill Kedges at all. He
is Charles Hauberk."

Yes, so he said, but who is to believe him.
Thieves are always swells if one believes them
If I had as many pence as Teres, Montmorency,
&c., have been had up, I could buy up London''

VOL. III. D

"But, Luke, I tell you it is absurd. This
young man is a gentleman, I know him. He is
the son of Lord Hauberk, the Earl of Brookshire,
my old friend. How could he steal a
watch ? What can make you think so ? What
proof have you?"

"Is'ot much, certainly' put in Bob Bennett;
^' and that is what I told Luke before you came in.
He spoke to the young man for a few minutes on
the deck of the steamer, and shortly afterwards
missed his watch."

Yes," said Luke, " and never thought so well-spoken
a young man could be a thief, especially one
so high and mighty ; but the swell mob are always
high and mighty, and this one looked an old fish,
I must say. Still, had not Mr " —

*' Snorker," said John Bennett, " told you that
lie was the thief, you would never have believed it,
eh?"

"John ! " cried Luke and Bob together, "how
can you know ? "

Oh, well enough," said the barrister, with a
smile of triumph. " I know the whole story. Look
here, you two listen to me."

Then, in a few words, the barrister explained to
his brothers the whole matter, and so clearly that
Luke had no longer any doubt on it. When John
had finished, Luke jumped up and said —

The infernal scoundrel ! I will have him arrested
at once ; and that poor young man, too, he
must be got out at once."

"Nos stay," said John, '* don't do that. That

Twould spoil all. Leave the matter to me. We
must keep this case on for another week or ten
days. You must not betray anything to Snorker,
or show any signs of knowing what he is about''

'' Why so ? '^

*' Because if you did I should lose sight of the
pair. They would manage to escape. I want the
warrant from Marseilles, and that will take time
to come. I have not even written to the Credit
Bordelais. Don't you see ? "

Yes."

It was then agreed that Mr. Luke should still
keep up his friendly intercourse with C. Snorker^
Esq. , and proceed with the case against the infamous
Bill Kedges.

BILL Hedges IN PRISON.

True to the promise contained in his telegram.
Lawyer Bennett made his way early the next
morning to Clapham Common, and presenting
himself at the police station, found, as a legal
adviser, no difficulty in getting access to the felonious
Bill Kedges.

Charles was seated in his cell occupying himself
with writing — what? A last confession ? No — a
poem on Euphrosyne. Other MSS. lay strewn on
the little table before him, and proved that he
had not wasted his time. These MSS., written
since he was confined, were chiefly notes on prison
treatment, reports of conversations he had had
with the officials, and a draft of the defence he
proposed to offer when he was again brought up
before the Bench ; for although he had not yet
been twenty-four hours in durance vile, he had
had quite enough of this new experience, and
rather regretted not having at once given the
necessary proofs of his innocence, from doing
which, it will be remembered, he had purposely
abstained, in order to gain the experience which
was now growing irksome to him, and more than
irksome, for he fumed and chafed at being unable
to communicate with Euphrosyne, whose letter
was causing him the greatest anxiety.

When Bennett, then, entered the cell he found
Charles writing. Instead of at once advancing,
the lawyer stood in the doorway, with his eyes
rivetted on the young man, who, busy in his poem,
and with his mind probably in Sorrento, did not
notice that anyone had entered.

The very picture of the old lord," said Bennett
to himself ; then stepping up to Charles, he
said — " I have come, Mr. Kedges.'^

*' Oh ! '^ said Charles, without turning round,
all I want is to ask you to see that they don't
put drunken men in the cell next to mine. I could
not sleep a bit last night, and have been much
annoyed this morning also. There is one thing
more," he added, " my name is not Kedges, but
Hauberk — a slight difference."

You are right," said Bennett, bringing his
hand down on the young man's back with a cordial
slap. '^ Your name is Hauberk, and your face is
Hauberk."

Charles turned round, and seeing Mr. Bennett,
jumped up and said, " Oh ! I beg your pardon,
sir, I thought I was speaking to the master of the
place. You are Mr. Bennett, I suppose ? "

Yes," said the lawyer, " I am."

I got your telegram," said Charles, '^ and
thank you very much for coming. I wrote to you
because, perhaps you remember, you gave me a card
at the Oxford Railway Station, saying " —

"That I knew your father," put in Bennett,
^' and would be glad to serve his son any time, orin
any way."

'^ Vou knew my father. Did you know him
well ? "

Yes, very well. We were friends — aye, friends
and that is a boast that very few men can make,
for Lord Hanberk was as proud as he was noble."

"Proud," cried Charles, "I am glad he was
proud. He was very greats was he not ? "

*' Aye," answered the barrister, '^ very great.
There are few if any, like him to-day. He was
a true old Tory nobleman, and that is a race that
is extinct now-a-days."

Extinct ? " cried Charles. " Why, most noblemen
are Conservatives."

Yes, Conservatives. That word expresses the
matter exactly. It expresses a sort of compromise,
a wish to be popular, and yet selfish. There is no
longer that strong independence, that defiance of
classes which they despised, which used to mark
the Tories of your father's time. But," he added,
*' that is not the question. I have come down to
talk to you about different things, and the first
thing is about this watch. No, don't speak ; I
know the whole business. It is only a plot, and
I have my hand on the plotters, and shall crush
them by-and-bye, but I want time, and if you can
make up your mind to stay in prison a little longer
you will help me to do this."

"Why," said Charles, "I have six days more
to stay in this hole. I am under remand, you
know, for a week."

That is not enough," said Bennett. '^ Come,,
will you stay in prison a fortnight ? "

Charles looked perplexed, then he said —

'* You are a strange lawyer. You recommend
me to stay in prison. Lawyers usually try to get
their clients out." Then he added with much
impatience, '''No, no, no. I ought to go."

To go where? '^ said the barrister, seating
hims-elf.

To Florence, to Florence," cried Charles,
rising, and pacing the narrow limits of his
cell with feverish excitement. *' Each moment I
waste here removes me further from Euphrosyne."

So," said the lawyer, " you are in love with.
a young lady at Florence? "

Tes," cried Charles. 'you were my father's
friend. I think I will tell you all. I think I can
trust you ? "

"Yes," said Bennett, "tell me all your troubles,
^^J l>oy ; whatever I can do I will do for you. I
would do anything for your father's son."

"Well," said Charles, 'listen. Til tell you
my whole story."

When John Elphin stone turned bankrupt and
I was "—

Who ? " cried Bennett.

John Elphinstone, my guardian."

*john Elphinstone? Oh, John Elphinstone, of
course. Tell me, where did he live? "

At Devizes," said Charles.

At Devizes, of course, I remember now. What
a miserable thing that fever of mine was. So he
failed, did he?"

Yes, and in his failure I lost all I had, about

£6,000, which had been paid on my behalf by a
lawyer who brought me to him when I was a
little boy, and placed me with him as Charles
Benson."

Yes, yes," said Bennett.

So T had to leave Oxford ; you remember how.
After that I found some friends, and got a little
money together and went abroad, and studied sometime
at Leipzic. I could not bear the place, and
went away — went to Naples. Oh, I forget. At
Leipzic I chanced to see the most beautiful girl
that I have ever known, and I fell in love with herat
once. By a strange chance I met her again in
Naples, and got to know her and to love her more
and more. And she loves me too. But I was poor,
you know, and had to work for my living and
gain it as best I could, and that did not look well.
Then John Elphinstone managed to pay me back
some of my money, and I thought I was once
more going to become respectable and full of hope.
I presented myself at the house of the girl I loved,
at the house where formerly I was welcome.
But lying tongues head done their work, and her
mother, a proud French lady of rank and title,
had learned what my birth was, and how poor I
was, and forbade me the house, and told me that
Euphrosyne could never be mine, not that she
disliked me personally, but because — I was a
bastard."

'' Because you were a bastard, eh ? " said
Bennett.

Yes, as if that was my fault. How cruel it

seemed, and how bitterly I felt it, I need not tell
you, but I saw she was right. She comes of the
proudest family of France, and could not give her
daughter to such as me. But it seemed very hard,
did it not ? And very much harder when, afterwards,
my dear girl told me how much she loved
me, and that, be what I might, she could never
love anyone but me. Oh, then I cursed my father,
and T cursed my mother, through whose sins I
suffered, for, at the moment, the gift of life they
had given me seemed but a torture. And the
thought that I was to lose this dear girl for no
fault of mine, for no lack on my part, that even
penniless I should have been, but for the ineffaceable
stain on my name, accepted by Euphrosyne
and accepted by her mother ; this thought, I say,
drove me wild, and I said things and did things
that now I regret. Well, to avoid me, the leper,
the pariah, the bastard, the haughty lady took
her daughter away to Florence, and after hearing
nothing from her for a long time I heard yesterday
that my dear girl, my loved darling, is forced
into a marriage with a man whom she does not
and cannot love. That is my suffering, and when
I think of all I have lost, of all that might have
been mine but for the sin of my father and the
sin of my mother, the curse I uttered once'' comes
again to my lips."

No, no," said Bennett, " you must not curse
jour father. He loved you well, and did all in his
power for you. Nor curse your mother, but, if you
will, curse me."

Curse you ! '^ cried Charles in astonishment.

^' Yes; I have, through my weakness, offended
much. It may come well in the end, it may come
well in the end. Does the lady say when the marriage
is to take place ? "

No," said Charles ; " she says it shall not take
place at all, but her mother seems most eager for
the sacrifice, and will probably hasten its consummation.
I meant to do a bold thing before this
arrest took place. I meant to go to Florence and
go to Euphrosyne and say, ' Euphrosyne, choose ;
either follow me or dismiss me altogether,' but
then this happened, and I suppose I must resign
myself to my fate."

Do not grumble against your fate," said
Bennett. " Things may come right in the end,
and all may be well."

"You speak in riddles," said Charles impatiently;
"I cannot understand you. You
know my shame, and therefore also know that this
shame is an ineffaceable one, and that she, therefore,
Euphrosyne, can never be mine."

'^ I know several things," said Bennett, *' and
until I know a few more I cannot speak in a clear
manner. Meanwhile I want you to make up you
mind to stay here another week. I will send a
solicitor down to defend you and to get a fresh
remand. You must agree to that, it is in your
interest. Nothing shall happen at Florence
during that time. I have a friend there whom I
will write to, and who will keep me au courant
with what is going on. If this unhappy marriage

is being pushed on we must take other measures
to prevent it. So you may set yourself at ease on
that head and I shall be very pleased to hear that
you agree to what I propose. '■*

I will ! " said Charles, taking the barrister's
hand. " I will ; I like you. I am pleased with you.
You are the only man I have yet met that talks of
Lord Hauberk as my father, and that pleases me.
Yes ; I will put my trust in you'*

Thank you," said the lawyer rising, " it will
not be misplaced. Keep up your heart, my boy,
and good-bye."

A NEWSPAPER PARAGRAPH.

How Charles fared when he was again brought
up before the Clapham Common Magistrates maybe
learnt by reference to the following paragraph,
<}ut from the police news column of a newspaper
of the time : —

A Rhyme to Silver. — The prisoner, Bill Kedges, who, it will
be remembered, stands accused with having stolen from the person
of Luke Bennett, Esq., a gold chronometer, valued at £100, was
brought up on remand this morning. The prosecutor attended,
and repeated his statement, and witnesses were called to substantiate
his evidence. Mr. Barlow, late pawnbroker and general
dealer at Southampton, appeared for the prosecution, and swore
that he had bought a watch, similar in all respects to the description
of the stolen watch, from the prisoner. Other evidence was
taken, and the magistrates were about to commit the prisoner,
who observed a most obstinate silence, to take his trial at the
next assizes, when the legal gentleman who appeared in his
behalf applied for a further remand, stating that he thought he
should be able to produce evidence to prove that this was a case
of mistaken identity. A further remand was accordingly-granted.
The prisoner on being asked if he had any questions to
put to any of the witnesses, answered with great sang froid that
he would like to know if any of them could give him a suitable
rhyme to " silver." (A laugh.) The witty Chairman answered,
saying that " pilfer " would be a suitable one in his case. (Roars
of laughter.) The prisoner was then removed, and the Court
adjourned for luncheon.

THE DUKE PUT OUT OP THE WAT.

Poor little Euphrosyne, for ten long days she had
waited for an answer to her piteous plaint, to the
letter in which she had told her dear Charles that
she was engaged to the Duke. For ten long days,
and no message came, no letter, and she began to
lose heart.

On the evening of the tenth day, the same day
on which Charles had been a second time remanded,
she was sitting, very disconsolate and down-hearted,
in her room, reading over the few but
very precious letters which she had received from
her English lover, when Bianca came into the
room and going up to her, said in a voice full of
pity—

Bad news, dear, bad news."

What ? " cried Euphrosyne, turning pale, " is
there bad news from England ? "

"No."

Then what bad news can there be for me if
he be well ? "

I heard my brother just now, speaking to his
friend, the Principe di Rocca Nere. He said he
was to be married to you in a week."

Tour poor brother."

*' Ah, for I suppose you will never " —

Never, Bianca, mia. Why, think of my Charles ?
Are we not ^romessi sposi ? "

"Yes, yes, lias he written? "

The tears came to Euphrosyne eyes as she
shook her head. "No, Bianca, no, not one little
word. He may be en route for Florence, but he
does not well to leave me thus, sorrowful and
alone

said Madame de Bienaimee,
entering the room.

Yes, mamma."

You must come, child, Signorina Bello has
come, and wants to try on your dress."

What dress, mamma ? '■*

Your wedding dress, child."

Is that so pressing ? "

Yes, child, of course. Oh ! but I forgot that
you don't know. Arnolfo was here this morning,
and begged me to give my consent to having the
marriage in seven days at the latest. He says he
cannot wait longer for his happiness.'^

Or rather," muttered Euphrosyne to herself,
*' his tailor can't wait for his bill."

And so, child," continued the Baroness, ^' I
gave my consent, and sent Giovanni round to Signorina
Ucello^s and begged her to come at once,
and she is there waiting ; so come along, little
woman."

Euphrosyne rose, and said gravely —

"Mamma, I don't want to go to Signorina
TJcello's. I don't want any wedding dress."

Why not, my child ? "

Because, mamma, I am not going to be married
yet."

"1^0, not for seven days""

Not for seventy days, if he bides away."

Euphrosyne ! "

"Mother!"

What do you mean ? "

There can be no wedding where the bridegroom
is wanting, and mine is wanting."

Arnolfo is in Florence."

"Arnolfo? Bridegroom? Why do you speak of
him?"

What nonsense, Euphrosyne ; you know that
it is all settled.'^

Who settled it ? "

I did. Tou are engaged, affianced."

Aye, but not to Arnolfo."

"You were publicly engaged to the Duke more
than forty days ago."

Forty days ago I was given away to the Duke
in the face of man ; thrice forty days ago I gave
myself away to Charles Hauberk in the face of
Ood.''

Euphrosyne," said the Baroness, almost
angrily, "you must not, must not behave like
this. You must talk no more nonsense about
Charles Hauberk. That is all past and forgotten.
I dare say that young Englishman has forgotten
you. In seven days you marry the Duke."

Mamma," said Euphrosyne, " come here.
Look," and so saying, she threw open a cupboard
in the wall, and pointed. " Look. That heap of
white rags is the dress in which I appeared that
night, at what was called my ■dancailles, you see it

now. That dress," she said, pointing to another
is the dress in which I plighted my troth to
Charles. You see it is carefully cherished. Had
you not spoken of dresses, mamma, I would not
have shown you them. That is all I have to says'

*' Those are all chiaccerie" said the Baroness ;
really, Euphrosyne, you must be more sensible.
Life is not all idyllic a la Watteau""

It need not, however, be all a la Zola," said
Euphrosyne.

Anyhow, the fact remains that you marry
Arnolfo in a week''

Euphrosyne ran up to Bianca, and throwing her
arms round her neck, burst into tears, then she
said —

Bianca, how can I vex mamma with words ?
Do you, care mia, speak for me," and with that
she fled from the room.

Dearest Bianca,^' said the Baroness, " what
can Euphrosyne mean ? I never saw such extraordinary
conduct in her before. Can you tell
why she has taken such a dislike to your brother ? "

Bianca looked straight with her black fearless eyes
at the Baroness. That was all the answer Bianca
gave.

Well, anyhow,'^ said the Baroness, '' it is too
late to go into likes or dislikes now. I always
thought Euphrosyne very fondly loved di Caserta,
I am astonished at this behaviour now. She is
positively rude to him ! What can have come to
her?"

Madriyia mia" said Bianca , " you forget
Charles'

The Baroness stamped her foot angrily.

Who is this boy'' she cried, " that he should
come between me and my daughter, and with his
ill-omened appearance upset all my hopes in, and
plans for, her happiness ? Who is this boy ? an
adventurer having no fortune " —

^' What fortune has my brother? " asked Bianca.

'^ Your brother is Duca di Caserta, and Charles
Benson is a " —

Poet' said Bianca, " and thus nobler in
nobility than he."

"Poet?" cried the Baroness. "That does not
palliate his birth. I assure you, Bianca, that I
really liked the lad at first, but that now his name
has grown absolutely hateful to me. Look what
he has made of Euphrosyne. Look what she was
before he met her, and look what she is now.
Was ever mother blessed with a more obedient
child than I ? And now — well, you heard for
yourself."

If indeed she be advanced to Charles Hauberk""
said Bianca, " she is only acting as any woman
would do."

How strange you are, Bianca. You appear to
defend and excuse Euphrosyne. Do you forget
that for this boy she is throwing over your own
brother ? "

Were Arnolfo twenty times my brother, knew
I him to be twenty times worthier of Euphrosyne,

VOL. III. E

I should still defend and excuse her for preferring
Charles."

'' How can you, why do you speak thus of your
brother ? '' asked the Baroness with some astonishment.


Bianca's answer was very simple —

'^ Because I love Charles," she said.

You love him ? " cried the Baroness. 'bless
me, what has come to the girls ? Has this young
man some potent love philtre, or what ? It cannot
be his beaux yeux only. Really, if I was not so
vexed about all this trouble I should laugh. Perhaps
I shall be the next to bow before this Juggernaut
of feminine happiness. But come, Bianca,
you canst be serious ; for if you loved Charles, as
you say you do, surely you would not encourage
Euphrosyne in her folly

folly' said Bianca, "is Euphrosyne's
life. Euphrosyne's folly is Charles Hauberk's
happiness. I love them both, and would see
them happy."

'^ You must renounce your hopes, then," said the
Baroness sternly. '' I can put up with no more of
this nonsense. It is absurd," she added petulantly,
" and worse than absurd. Here is Euphrosyne,
engaged to your brother, moaning after a
boy of no family, without means, whom . she only
knew a few weeks, and who has probably forgotten
all about her by now. I never wished to force
my daughter to anything, but now that I see
how earnest she is in her nonsense I shall be firm
too. I won't have the name of my husband dishonoured.

I won't have the Bienaimee arms
quartered on an escutcheon which, is defaced by
the bar sinister. She shall be Bienaimee or di
Caserta'"

Hauberk is a better name than ours' said
Bianca. " We only go back to 1343. They go
back to Hotspur ! "

*' Hauberk may , Benson does not/^

"Charles denied any connection with Benson."

But that is his name, I know it. Did not his
college friend, Mr. Mangles, tell me so? "

He said it was a name with which he had
nothing to do."

That shows his bad taste. Anyhow, I prefer
my son-in-law's name to have no mystery about
it, and I have said that I won't hear any more
about him ; I daresay he does not want to hear
anything more about us. He is not a very attentive
lover, anyhow."

You forbade him the house."

At Sorrento."

Yes, but he is too much of a gentleman to
come to Florence, seeing your dislike."

He has certainly acted well in staying away.
1 never doubted his gentility."

^* If ever ' noble ' was written on the face of any
man it was on the dear face of Charles."

"What nonsense you do talk, Bianca," said
Madame de Bienaimee, smiling in spite of herself.
^*You cannot really be in love with this
boy."

If ever woman loved I do."

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARy

"And yet you oppose Euphrosyne's marriage
with your brother'

'' Are we all selfish, marina mia ? Can woman
never make sacrifices ? Is it the absolute rule of
nature that women must have what they want, or
rather, have you never heard of ones being happy
in misery, when by that misery one is helping
those one loves."

"Meanwhile, la Signorina Bello is waiting.
Where is Euphrosyne ? "

Where is Euphrosyne ?

In the garden talking to the Duke. Euphrosyne
had met him in the hall when she had fled from
her mother. At first she felt inclined to runaway
from him, then she stopped. She had an
idea ; she would act a part.

Good-morning, Carina," the Duke had said.

"Good-morning, Arnolfo," had answered Euphrosyne.


May ArnoKo kiss Euphrosyne ? " said the
Duke.

Arnolfo, brother of Bianca, may."

"But may Arnolfo, affianced to Euphrosyne,
kiss his bride ? "

Arnolfo, brother of Bianca, may," repeated the
girl.

Euphrosyne ? "

Arnolfo ? "

'^Do you only love me as the brother of
Bianca ? "

I love you as the brother of Bianca."

Then you love me ? "

"Yes."

May I kiss you ? "

I will compromise. Promise me something and
then you may."

What is it ? Speak, that I may promise it."

'' Not here, Arnolfo, come into the garden ; I
will tell you there."

Well, now we are in the garden. What is
it?"

Arnolfo, is it true you wish to have the marriage
in a week? "

In an hour were it possible."

"But it is not possible. A week is much too
early. I am not ready yet. Will you wait?
Promise to wait for a month. You promised to
promise, you know.

Euphrosyne ? A whole month ? I shall be
dead by then."

"Dead!"

"Yes, dead. Does that astonish you? You
have heard of hearts breaking, have you not ? "

I have read of it. I have read many things
that are beautiful. Was it not a man of this
city, a Florentine, who told of his descent to
Inferno? I read that. It was beautiful, but
alas ! it was not true."

"It is true, however, that by delaying this
marriage, sposa mia, you consign me to an Inferno
where no Beatrice will comfort me."

And yet the Principessasa di Benvenuta is
dead."

Poor Carmel, do you think she is there ? "

Where do suicides go, if not thither ? "

I do not "know. Anyhow, I cannot promise."

"Why not? Why not?"

Because I cannot live without you any longer.
I love you."

You did not love me at Sorrento ? "

Because I was blind."

"No, Arnolfo, be frank with me, even as I will
be frank with you. You were rich then."

Euphrosyne ? "

Yes, Arnolfo. Is it not known in Florence
that your many debts, your squandered fortune,
your poverty, make my dowry to you a matter of
necessity ? "

Ha ! " said the Duke. " That is known in
Florence, is it? Well, is it not likewise known
in Florence that my coronet is to rescue from the
stain of a disgraceful marriage with a bastard
adventurer, the last Bienaimee ? "

"If you know this," said Euphrosyne, biting
her lip, " why so press the coronet upon me ? "

You have just mentioned the reason, or what
you and tutti Firenze take to be the reason."

"Arnolfo," said Euphrosyne, playing her part,
*^ it is not seemly that we should thus bandy
words. I only ask you to defer the marriage."

In order that yon may hear from your English
lover, from the bastard."

Does it fit the coronet to use that word before
a girl? I know it, for I have read of that misery ;
but why do not you say from the man who saved
your honour?"

"He lent me 2,000 francs. I repaid him, void
tout'

You repaid him, and no void tout. Did he
not save your honour ? Did he not rescue you
from disgrace ? I would say, * Fie, on your ingratitude
! ' were you not my affianced. As it is, I only
ask once more, will you " —

"No."

At this moment, the two, who had strayed out
of the garden, were standing in the highroad.

"You will not. It is cruel, Arnolfo. Why
press me ? I want a little time."

You know the reason ; you have taunted me
with the reason."

"Well, then," said Euphrosyne, " good-morrow,
sposa mia, I hear my mother calling, a riveder.^^

With these words, obedient to the call of her
mother, she ran away, through the garden into
the house, leaving Arnolfo standing in the road.

Signorina, signorina," said he, looking after
her, " you do not well, you do not wisely. In a
week you become my wife, and in eight days you
"will have " —

» " I arrest your Excellency," said a voice behind
him; a hand was laid on his shoulder, and a
stamped paper pressed in his hand.

The Duke started and turned. He found himself
standing by the side of an officer from the
sheriff of Florence.

On what authority ? " asked he.

"On the authority of the sheriff," answered
the man.

Ah ! at whose suit ? "

At the suit of il Signor Cittadini, master tailor
of this town. The recent seizure of your Excellency's
effects did not produce one-tenth of a
sufficiency to pay the claim of the Signor Citta-
dine, and this gentleman has this morning had a
warrant issued for the arrest of the esteemed
person of your ducal Excellency' answered the
man.

And thus it happened that that night two notes
were left at the house of the Baroness Bienaimee,
one to Euphrosyne, which ran —

'^ Caen MIA,

I agree to delay, though it breaks my
heart.

Aenolfo di Casket."

One to the Baroness —

Made MIA,

Business calls me to Eome; shall be
away some time. The marriage day can be postponed
if necessary. I do not know when I shall
be back.

Folio tuo devotissimo,

A. DI C,"

That night Euphrosyne came into Bianca's bedchamber.
The two girls talked long into the
night. A plan was agreed upon. Next day Bianca
sold three thousand francs worth of jewels.

T^-TEEVIEW WITH LORD Hauberk.

Dyeing the week that elapsed between Charles'
first and second remand, Hiram and his associate
had not been idle, and on the day when the young
man was sent back to prison on a new remand,
Hiram considered all his preparations complete
and his plan only to await execution. He had
given Snorker rendezvous at one o'clock at a bar
in the Strand, and punctually at one o'clock the
two confederates met.

Well," said Snorker, " things are going well,
the boy is to be kept dark for another week."

Yes," said Hiram, " it is going on swimmingly.
I go down to Appledean to-day.''^

Indeed ? "

By appointment."

Ho, ho."

Yes, look here," and, so saying, Hiram handed
Chizzlem a note, which bore the crest and coronet
-of the barony of Hauberk, and was dated from
Appledean.

Read it. ? " asked Snorker.

Yes, if you can," said Hiram.

Snorker read.

Appledean Manor,

Melton Mowbray.

Sir, — In answer to your letter of the 14th
inst., I write to say that it is not my custom to

give my solicitor the first consideration of ' matters
of vital importance and of the greatest possible
interest ^ to myself, and that I prefer to have these
laid before me personally.

Yon can call at the Manor any day between
four and seven in the afternoon, and I shall be-glad
to come to an understanding with yon.
I remain, sir,

"Yours, &c.,

Hauberk.
B. Hiram, Esq."

"That's fortunate," said Snorter. "I never
thought he would have a personal interview with
you. When do you go down ? "

"There is a train at two from St. Pancreas,"
answered Hiram, "which gets to Kettering at
3.45, and from Kettering I can get the train onto
Appledean, and be there by five o'clock. I am
going to-day."

And good luck go with you. Of course you
don't want me ? "

No, I see no use in our going down to2f ether.
Two look bad, besides it would only cost you
money, and our terms are fixed."

"You're right. Be careful, there's a lot depends
on it."

"No need for you to tell me that. There —
Hansom ! "

'^ Good-bye, where do we meet — when ? "

"To-morrow morning, same place, twelve-o'clock."


Good-bye, Mil."

Good-bye, Chin."

Heigh driver, stop. Oh, Mil, I forgot. Do
you know whom I saw in London to-day ? " said
Snorker, lowering his voice.

No, who ? "

"The manager of the Marseilles branch of
the Credit Bordelais. You remember Belmont's
affair?"

Damn him, he can't hurt us. Driver, St.
Pancreas. Good-bye," and with these words the
Rev. Bartlemy Hiram drove off.

Lord Hauberk was sitting in his library that
evening at six o'clock, reading as a stimulant
before dinner, some choice maxims of Yauven-
argues, when his valet, entering, informed him
that a certain Mr. B. Hiram wanted to see
him.

B. Hiram, James," said Lord Hauberk. " I
know nobody of that name."

"He said, my lord, that he came by appointment
with your lordship."

"Hiram? B. Hiram. I think it must be a
mistake," said Lord Hauberk, dipping into
Yauvenargues.

M'lud," said James, after standing in respectful
silence for fully a quarter of an hour.

"Well, James."

What answer shall I give to Mr. Hiram ? "

"Tell him that la severite'n'est qu' un fard, no,
no, of course not. Ask him what he wants."

Yes, maud."

Presently James returned, bringing in Lord
Hauberk's letter to Hiram.

He says when your lordship has seen this
letter, you will know what he wants," said James,
handing the letter.

'' Ah' said Lord Hauberk, taking the letter.
^' Curious writing. Why, I do declare I think it
is my writing. James, is that my writing ? '^

I think m'lud wrote that there."

Oh, then I asked him to come. He had better
come in. Qui vit sans folie. No, that's Rochefou-
could. Yes, James, show him in."

James went out, and in a few minutes Bartlemy
Hiram stood in the august presence of Ralph, ninth
Baron Hauberk.

Mr. B. Hiram, m'lud," said James, bowing ashe
retired.

Lord Hauberk rose ; and bidding Hiram take a
seat, sat down and said —

I am sorry, Mr. Hiram, to have kept you waiting,
but Yauvenargues is too delightful. I distinctly
prefer him to de la Rochefoucauld, and yet
the dear Duke said some exquisite things."

"Who's Yovvy Nark and Delltrosh Too, ko?"
said Hiram to himself, then aloud. " Ah, true,
my lord, Yovvy Nark beats Delia roshfoo ko
hollow."

'' We won't say that, Mr. Hi-Hi-Hiram," said
Lord Hauberk, "no; de la Rochefoucauld has
some charmingly subtle thoughts. Of course you
know his gem about conversation. Tine des choses
qui fait que Von trouve que &c.^*

Whilst Lord Hauberk was reading aloud with
evident gusto the cynics exposure of conversation,,
Hiram took stock of him. He had expected a very
different man, and his hopes rose finding no
haughty, supercilious, business-like man of the
world) but a little withered up savant, who seemed
impregnated with the dust that lay on the modern
part of his extensive library, and who wore instead
of the coronet Hiram had evidently expected to
see on the back of his head, a red cotton cap.

^' Well," said Hiram, to himself, " I shall have
no difficulty in bullying something solid out of this
man, with his Yovvy Foo Ko, and Eos Nark —
Beautiful, my lord, delightfully (aloud), "indeed
a bijou."

Lord Hauberk closed his book with a sigh,
pushed it away, scanned Hiram carefully through
his spectacles, then took a letter from his table
and read it.

Well, sir, to business," he said, when he
glanced through the letter. " You wrote to me
on the 14th, asking to be granted an interview
with my solicitors on matters of vital importance
and of the greatest possible interest to myself
Can you possibly have found a second Yauve-
argues ? "

Hiram had prepared a long speech to introduce
his statement, but his short acquaintance with
Lord Hauberk had made him think that much
precaution was unnecessary, and that it was a case
for bullying and not for palaver, so he rose and
blurted out —

Only this, my lord, that it depends entirely on
yourself whether you be any longer a my lord."

Quite true, sir,'^ said Lord Hauberk, without
any evident surprise. "A very subtle remark.
As my friend of LoDsdale has it on his coat of
arms — Magistrates indicate virum—eind" —

Hiram opened a large portfolio he had brought
with him, and taking therefrom a formidable -
looking folio document, placed it on Lord Hauberk
ta-able, saying —

"If you will give that your attention, my lord,
you will see what I mean."

Then he sat down, and began to make mental
calculations as to how much he should ask fur his
information.

Lord Hauberk took the document, fitted his
spectacles tightly on his nose, and began to read
it.

The perusal of the document occupied him fully
an hour, and he only once interrupted himself to
bid James bring the candles. He let no exclamation
of surprise or anger pass his lips all the
time, but read it with a certain degree of interest,
though signs of weariness did, now and then,
escape him.

Whilst he was thus occupied, Hiram remained
sitting still, and for all the calmness he essayed
to maintain on his countenance, he did not feel
quite at his ease, and shifted from time to time
uneasily on his seat, listening wearily to the ticking
of the clock, and watching his lordship with
intense interest from time to time. One hour

passed, and as jet Lord Hauberk had said nothing.
It was half-past seven. Hiram glanced at him.
He was leaning back in his chair, holdings the
document in such, a manner that it hid his face.
A few more minutes passed, and suddenly the
paper fell from his lordship's hand. To Hiram's
surprise and disgust, he saw that Ralph, ninth
Baron Hauberk, was asleep, and had apparently
been so for some time. This was indeed annoying;
he had expected the famous document to
produce a very different effect.

Whilst he was speculating what to do to wake
Lord Hauberk, this was done for him by the
entrance of James, who had come to announce
dinner.

Lord Hauberk started up, rubbed his eyes and
said, 'james, what is the time ? ''

"Eight o'clock, m'lud."

What, James, is dinner half-an-hour late ?"

"No, but we thought your lordship was engaged."


Faugh. I have been asleep."

James gave Hiram a thoroughly contemptuous
look as he withdrew.

Mr. Hiram," said Lord Hauberk, " you must
excuse me for going to sleep, and you will excuse
me for not being able to invite you to dinner. I
always dine alone. The Brookshire Arms in the
village is, they say, very comfortable. Good
evening sir.'^

But, my lord," said Hiram, almost irritably,
what do you say about the paper ? "

"What paper?"

The paper I laid before you."

Oh ! " said Lord Hauberk, '' that, you maj
take it away with you. It does not interest me in
the slightest. If it is true, I leave Appledean, if
not, I stay. That is all. You should not have
given me hopes. You spoke of having matters of
the greatest possible interest to me to tell me. I
declare I thought you had found a third cynic."

^« D — n you for an old fool." growled Hiram to
himself, as he withdrew crestfallen from the rooms
taking with him the wonderful document which
was to have done so much and brought so much
money into his pockets.

And is it to end like this ? " he growled to
himself, as he walked down to the park gates.
"What a spiritless old idiot that Hauberk is.
Went to sleep did he ? And Bennett and his gang
will triumph, will they? And I and Snorker can goto
the d — 1 can we ? There is not a trump left in
my hand. My information and my silence are
worth nothing to anybody but to that drivelling
old Yovvy Nark bloke, and he cares so little for it
that he goes to sleep ; and I, who had counted
on about £20,000 down, and a large fraction
of my lord's income and his patronage, have
to go back to that withered old hag, Sabine, and
her wretched £1,000 a year, or rather to the threepence
a week pocket money she offers, curse her.
Can Snorker have forestalled me ? No, I don't
think so, he fears me too much. Can that fellow
Bennett have been making terms with my lord ?

No, I don't think so ; my lord did not seem to
know anything about it, and did not seem to care.
Well, that game's np, and I must give it up and
go and get Sabine out of the asylum. Her £1,000
a year are all I have now between me and starvation.
Starvation ! '' he hissed between his teeth,
as he left the park and stood in the road, looking
back on the stately old manor that appeared half-hidden
behind magnificent trees, and marking the
luxury and evident wealth that all its entourage
bespoke. " Starvation? Why should I starve
while yonder old fool has thousands of acres all
his own, and the jingle of thousands of sovereigns
whenever he cares for such music ? Am I not as
good as he, and better ? And why have I to turn
to twist, like a cursed fox to live ? "

It was too late to think of going back to London
that night, and so he was forced to take Lord
Hauberk's advice, and put up at the Brookshire
Arms Hotel.

Next morning he woke in a very bad humour.
His want of success weighed very heavily on him.
In the coffee-room a note was brought to him by
the waiter, who said it had been brought from the
Manor by one of his lordship's servants. Hiram
seized it eagerly, and his heart beat high as he
thought that the old lord had only pretended indifference
in order to make better terms, and that
this note was to summon him back to the Manor
for the purpose of a conversation with him.

He tore the note open hastily ; the next minute

VOL. III. p

he dashed it with an oath to the floor, and calling"
for his bill, paid it and left the house.

The waiter who had brought him the note had
witnessed all this, and as soon as Hiram had left
the house he picked the letter up and read it.

It was this : —

Appledean Manor.
Dear Mr. Hiram,

I retract all I said about de la Roche-focal
as inferior to Yauvenargues. I have
found three maxims of the Duke's which beat
Yauvenargues' best things. I hope you are comfortable
at the Brookshire Arms.

Hauberk.
B. Hiram, Esq."

This was Hebrew to the waiter, but he laid it
reverently aside. It came from the Manor, and
bore the sign-manual of Ralph, ninth Baron Hauberk.
That letter would be handed down to his
descendants as an heirloom.

As soon as Hiram got to London, he drove
straight to Peckham Lodge, and asked and gained
admittance to Dr. Phillipot.

Well, Mr. Hiram," said the doctor, rising to
greet his visitor, " what brings you here ? Anymore
grist for our mill ? ^'

Aye, but not with me. I would not mind
locking up an old driveller I know of in the country
here ; it would not do him much harm," answered
Hiram, with a scowl. " No, doctor, I come to take
my wife away."

Indeed ! and may I ask why ? "

"I am going to leave England, and that is
why''

And want to give your dear wife the benefit of
a change of air, eh?"

"That's my business. How is she?"

Balmy. She does not know who put her here.
She swears by you. Gad, to hear her talk of you,
one might fancy she believed you a saint. One
can't say anything to her but she fires up and
threatens one with her husband."

Hiram smiled, he liked the compliment ; then
he said —

You are sure she don't know who put her
here ? "

"^o, sir; at least she did not until quite
lately, till a brute, Esther "White, a pauper patient,
told her. It appears Esther White knew you."

Zounds," cried Hiram, " what's that you say
about Esther White ? "

It appears," answered the mad-doctor, " that
this girl, who was sent here from Dartford, had an
interview with your wife, and spoke of you as
knowing you, and gave her the tip as how she
came there, and then bolted."

"What! has Esther escaped?"

Aye, some time back."

"Then curses on her," muttered Hiram, "that
woman is always in my way. A thousand to one
but it is she who has spoilt my game. Only let
me catch her — that's all."

Then turning to Dr. Phillipot, he said, " What

do I owe you ? I want to take my wife out at
once."

Ten pounds for the last quarter, seven guineas
medical attendance, eight pound ten and nine for
extras, including use of piano, and ten pounds for
the ensuing quarter in lieu of a quarter's notice."

''^ Anything, anything, I want her out. What's
the total ? "

Thirty-five pounds seventeen and nine. No,
sir, no cheques — I prefer cash."

Well, here, and here. Fetch Sabine, and see
her things got ready. '^

The meeting between Sabine and her spouse
need not be described at length. Sabine's first
question was how much of her income had been
accumulated. Hiram, who had had no time during
his wife's short confinement to obtain the Lord
Chancellor's vesting order over her property, was
able to give her a satisfactory answer. Hiram, then,
with consummate hypocrisy, related his distress
at her sudden disappearance, his anxious quest
after his dearly beloved wife, and his great joy at
finding her ; and fully agreed with her that there
was a very reasonable, sufficient, and well-founded
ground for entertaining the suspicion that Dorothy
Crosthwaite had originated, begun, and carried out
the abominable plan of confining a sister, of whose
matrimonial felicity she was doubtless jealous, in a
lunatic asylum ; and there and then on the common
ground of injured innocence, with the common
purpose of exposing and punishing so unnatural
a monster, the spouses made, the peace, and forgetting

past grudges, mutual grievances, and all
ill-will, turned over a new leaf in their wedded
life, and took a cab to Bayswater.

On their way thither, where Hiram had an
appointment to keep, he told his wife that he
thought after her long and cruel confinement a
visit to Paris would be a nice change ; but Sabine,
who had still fresh in her mind the memory of
Bartlemy's Parisian eccentricities, strongly opposed
the idea of a second visit to the gay
metropolis, and suggested Clapham as an eligible
scene for the pastoral they had agreed to enact.

By the aid of some well-timed refreshment,
which took the varied form of kisses and pork pies,
embraces and fluid peppermint, Battle my induced
his wife to agree to a visit to Granville, and a day
was fixed for their departure to that pleasant seaside
resort.

Them balmy breezes and warbling woodlands
will be an 'heavenly orchestra to our new love; and,
arm-in-arm, hand-ins hand, heart linked to heart,
we will — a-a-h ! ! Driver, drive on ; Sabine, draw
down that curtain. It's nothing, dear. I saw a
bio — , I mean a man what strongly resembles a
CO — , a man who in early youth wounded my tenderest
feelings."

Bartlemy said this. The manager of the Credit
Bordelais at Marseilles had passed the cab in the
middle of his speech, and apparently had recognized
one of its occupants.

DE June AND DE FACTO.

Snorker was true to his tryst ; and punctually at
mid-day on the morrow of the day when Hiram,
his trusty companion, had taken his departure for
Appledean, arrived at the bar in the Strand where
they had agreed to meet. Hiram was naturally
not there, and not there Hiram remained for upwards
of two hours, and very disgusted did Mr.
Chizzlem become. He waited till three o'clock,
however, and then, as there were no signs of
Hiram, he departed very angry and full of suspicion.


He's played me false," he muttered to himself,
as he walked down the Strand. " He's played
me false. He's gone and made terms with the old
lord and now thinks I and the money he owes me
may both go to the devil.

'' I have done all the dirty work, run all the risks
committed perjury over and over again to help him,
and he's gone and got the jam. I do not like
them ways. Always act square to a pal is my
motto, and what I acts upper and as I acts I would
be acted by. Oh, isn't he just laughing at me,
now he's got the money and is off out of danger ?
Isn't he a chuckling to himself as he thinks how
he has sold C. Snorker, Esquire, and thinks that
C. Snorker^ Esquire can't round on him noways ;

but if he thinks that, strikes me he is mistaken,
for although it would not do for me, nor pay me,
to go and blow on the polls jobs with Sabine and
Esther, nor on the ease he's put up against that there
Benson, for I know as well as he knows, blind him,
that I should be in Queer Street by so doing. I
yet think I can get Mr. Milwaukee Bartholomew
on the hip. Ah ! he's a scoundrel, if ever there
were such a thing. Gad, now I think of it, what's
the meaning of that bloke from the Credit Bore-delay
being over in London ? I wonder if he's on
our track? Don't think so. Don't think the
manager would come acting the policeman. Yet
the Belmont business was a large one. Bowman
thousand francs were it ? Bless me if I remember.
There again I was cat's paw. I ran all
the risk and got a beggarly £100 for my trouble.
Bartholomew, who sat at home, took the balance,
and a mighty heavy balance it was and all ; and
now he's got another balance and all. Well,
we'll see if we cannot upset his balance and all
this time."

Occupied with these thoughts Chizzlem Snorker
returned home. All that week he went about
London like a ferret, trying to find out what had
become of the Rev. Bartlemy spying and scouting
about the places where that gentleman
was likeliest to be found. But it was all unavailing.
Bartlemy had vanished from the face of the
town, and Snorker returned home more furious
than ever against him. One day the horrid
thought struck him that perhaps the appearance

of the manager of the Credit Bordelais lead something
to do with Bartlemy's disappearance ; perhaps
Milwaukee was arrested, but then, he
reasoned, that was impossible ; an Englishman
cannot be arrested in England for a crime he had
committed in France, and then again he would
have certainly heard something about it, or read
something in the papers, which was not the case.
No ; either Milwaukee, terrified by the presence
of the manager in London, was in hiding, or,
what was infinitely more probable, had made good
terms with his lordship and had decamped, leaving
his friend to bear the consequences of having
caused two sane women to be confined in a lunatic
asylum, by means of wilful and corrupt perjury,
and of having falsely sworn against Charles
Benson that he had committed a crime which
Snorker himself had perpetrated. Of course now
Snorker had not the remotest idea of again appearing
at the Clapham Police-court, or of going on
with the charge against William Kedges ; no,
what he meant to do was simple enough ; get all
his funds together and start some fresh villany on
and for his own account, and for the future to
eschew partners of either sex, or of any kind, to be
cat's paw no longer, and above all, to nurse his
grievance against Bartlemy, until such time
when he could inflict condign punishment on that
treacherous defaulter.

And therefore it happened that when Charles
Hauberk was again brought up before the Clapham

magistrates, neither of the principal witnesses
for the prosecution were present. Luke
Bennett appeared again and explained that he
had been mistaken, and evidence was brought by
Charles' legal adviser to prove that he was not
Bill Kedges.

'' But somebody must have stolen the watch,"
-was the sage remark of the witty Chairman.

^* Yes, your worship," answered Charles'
solicitor, ** somebody stole it, and some somebodies
have committed perjury, as I now intend to
prove. It appears, your worship that this young
man is the victim of a conspiracy in which the
prosecutor, whom I exonerate from all blame, is
an unsuspecting accomplice. Mr. Snorker, I shall
be able to prove, is the real thief of the watch,
and the Mr. Barlow who described himself as a
general dealer at Southampton is his accomplice,
of the name of Hiram. I now call Mr. Sign,
pawnbroker and dealer in precious stones, of
Southampton."

Mr. Sigg was no other than the shopkeeper
from whom Charles had bought some handkerchiefs,
before starting for Naples on the Voor-
warts, and at whose shop be had noticed the
watch which had been stolen from Mr. Luke
Bennett.

The evidence given by Mr. Sigg, and afterwards
by Master Jeremiah Sigg, fully exculpated Charles,
who was acquitted at once and discharged. On
the application of Charles' solicitor, warrants were

then and there issued by the Chairman for the-arrest
of Snorker and Barlow, alias Hiram for
theft, perjury, and conspiracy.

Enfin' said Charles, as he stepped out into the
street. Then as he saw Mr. John Bennett coming-out
of the court-room, he went up to him and said,
Well, and what have these three weeks of confinement
profited me ? What news have you from
Florence?"

'^No news, my dear boy, but excellent news in
London. Come, let us get away from this odious
place at once."

Have you had my things at Manor Street seen
to ; is my dear little dog safe, and my books ? "

Everything is safe," answered Bennett, " all is
as you left it. You had better come to Manor
Street and get your things and take Fang, who has
been well looked after, and then come to London
with me. 1 have taken rooms for you at the
Grosvenor."

While they were walking to Manor Street, Luke
Bennett came pufiBjig up behind. They turned,
and Luke Bennett, dowling his hat, began to make
many apologies to Charles for having caused him
this annoyance, interpolating threats against the
treacherous Snorker.

It's all right, it's all right," said John Bennett,
*' don't stop us, Luke, were very hurried."

Soon all things being arranged at Manor Street,
Charles and John Bennett found themselves in a
first-class carriage of the District Railway, being;
whirled to Victoria.

On their way there Charles kept repeating his
question about Florence. Bennett had had no
news, his correspondent had failed him. Charles
was very put out, and spoke of going to Florence
that same day.

You will do nothing of the kind," said
Bennett ;" wait till this evening, perhaps then
you will have some good news to telegraph to
her."

Anyhow, Charles, as soon as he got to Victoria,
went straightway to a telegraph-office and sent off
the following telegram to Euphrosyne : —

'^ Grosvenor Hotel,
"Hope for best and be loyal.

Charles'

This was all Bennett gave him time to write,
for the little barrister was fevered with a strange
excitement, and could hardly check himself from
dragging Charles off with main force to the
hotel.

"What is the matter with you, sir?" said
Charles, for, as they approached the hotel, Bennett
excitement seemed to increase.

Oh, nothing, nothing," answered the barrister,
as he hurried along. " You'll see."

As soon as they reached the hotel, Bennett
begged Charles to wait an instant at the foot of
the steps, saying he would come for him in a
few moments, as he had a question to ask of the
secretary.

Whilst Charles was waiting thus, a man ran

up to him apparently very much out of breath, and
said —

^^ Excuse me, sir ; did I see you just now with
Mr. Bennett ? "

"Yes."

Well, please give him this note when you see
him again. Its very important. I'm in a great
hurry and cannot wait.'^

Ton had better give him the note yourself,"
said Charles, "he has only just entered the
hotel"—

"No, no," said the man, pressing the letter into
his hand and moving away. "No, I've not a
moment to spare, but have to be at Charing Cross
in five minutes. Thank you, sir. Hansom ! " And
away he drove.

Charles was looking after him, wondering what
it might all mean, when he was touched on the
shoulder. It was Mr. Bennett.

Come, Charles," he said, " come, all is ready."

So saying, he led Charles into the hotel and up
the grand staircase to an apartment on the. first
floor. They entered together an elegantly
furnished drawing-room, and whilst Charles was
wondering whatever this might portend, the
excited little barrister fell on his neck and said —

My dear Charles, your unhappy days are over.
I have redeemed my promise to your father. Let
me be the first to greet you as Charles, eighth Earl
of Brookshire and ninth Baron Hauberk, and to
wish your lordship long and happy years."

Whatever do you mean ? " cried Charles, after

a pause, designed by the intense astonishment
and pleasurable excitement that caused it. " Whatever
do you mean ? " then he looked at the barrister
as if he thought he had gone out of his
mind.

"What I have said. That those who termed
you a bastard lied, and that you are a legitimate
son, and dejure and de facto what I have just had
the honour of calling you. Sit down, my lord, and
I will explains'

Charles gave way to his feelings in a long and
merry laugh. Then he ran up to Mr. Bennett and
shook his hand, saying —

*^ Is it really, really true ? No bastard ? No
bastard?"

Then he paused, and turned very pale, and
looked as though he were about to faint ; then he
fell back on a chair and covering his face with his
hands, seemed to weep ; but this reaction did not
last long, and presently he was up again and talking
in the greatest excitement, and, running about
the room, he repeated to himself —

"No bastard ! No bastard ! "

Suddenly a thought struck him and he rushed to
the door ; then he paused, and a look of bitterness
and disappointment came over his face.

No," he said ; " this is what I have longed for
all my life, but I did not want it to come thus* I
wanted to give the world the lie. I wanted to
raise myself, not to be raised. I do not like the
thought that it has all been done for me. I feel
like a convict, convicted, though innocent, to whom

a free pardon is brought, where lie had formed
plans of escaping from his vile and unjust suffering
by force, and by his own strength. And yet
Earl of Brookshire, and no longer Charles
Benson with an alias. Oh, it is too much, it is too
much."

Then he made his way to the door, saying —
"I must telegraph this to Euphrosyne. Yes,
that and that only makes it sweet to me. I shall
no longer be contemptible to her mother, but come
to her a wooer equal in birth and untarnished, withall
the honours of a hundred glorious ancestors
thick upon me, with all the fame, no longer
usurped, of our illustrious house. Yet how pitiful
that by these gauds I vanquish, and that
only when decked in inherited splendours, only
when brilliant with the homage of the world,
I am acceptable to her. No longer to win herby
the force of my arm, by the power of my
head, by the passion of my heart, but by the
honours of dead men, and the hollow applause of
fools. But what matter the means if by them
Euphrosyne be won ? What matter how I win her
so she be mine ? Will her eye be less bright, her
cheek less soft, her bosom less warm, because she
is won for me by my name and not by my prowess ?
God's truth, to have longed all my life for this and
now to regret it. I had offered to do battle against
the world, and had hurled in its odious face my
gauntlet of contempt and was eager for the fray,
desirous of the battle, conscious of my garnered
strength, reckless of the issue, and now it offers

to parley, and my arm must relax, and my heart
throb no more, and active, I must abandon activity,
hot with anticipated strife, must renounce strife,
braced for the encounter, must relax and forego
the contest, and, with a thousand insults, a thousand
taunts, a thousand, thousand tears to revenge,
smile and accept, with the right hand already
raised to smite the lying lips, accept the compromise
the world offers. But the strife was for
Euphrosyne, and though there is to be no fighting,
Euphrosyne is to be mine, and— yet — Yes, I will
telegraph to Florence."

Stay, my lord," said the barrister , " do nothing
too hastily."

'' Why? " answered Charles, pausing, with his
hand on the handle of the door. " Did you not
tell me that, dejure and de facto, I was my father's
heir?"

Yes," answered Mr. Bennett, " but of course
you understand, that, although in my mind I am
fully convinced of your claim being a rightful one,
and that you can be proved to be what T have
said, still the world will want convincing, and that
weill take a little time."

Of course," said Charles ; " and indeed I little
care whether what you say be true or not. Liars ! "
cried he, stepping to the window and menacing,
with his balled fist, the world without. . " Liars !
Liars ! Do you hear that ? I am no bastard, I
am no bastard. You lied. You lied. I am nobler
than you all. I am greater than you all. And
yet I scorn my nobility, and I scorn my greatness,

because I hate you, and because to be compared'
to you is to me an insult'

Then he threw up the window, and shouted
down the street —

I am the Earl of Root shire, and ye are fools
and knaves. I have now the right to scorn and
disdain ye, and insult, and ignore and contemn
ye. Bah ! Now, sir, tell me all about it,^' he
said, closing the window, and turning to Mr.
Bennett. " How do you know this ; what proof
have you ? "

I was solicitor to your father and tended him
at his death'' answered Mr. Bennett. "On his
death-bed he proclaimed you his son and heir."

^' But made no will? " said Charles.

"He died suddenly, a violent fever took him
away after four days' sickness. I wanted him to
commit what he said to paper, or to repeat it
before witnesses, but he died within a few minutes
of those, his last words. But come with me,
Charles. You shall hear the whole story from
other lips than mine. Come into the next room.
Some people are waiting for you there."

With these words Mr. Bennett rose, and leading
Charles by the arm, opened a door, and passed.
with him into an adjoining room.

'^ that is tour mother ! "

^' Herbert ! "

Charles."

However came you here ? "

I came from Italy a few days ago."

Mr. Bennett, what does this all mean ? "

Wait a minute. Let me introduce you to
Mrs. Dora Dixon, de jure Countess of Brookshire,
your mother."

Charles reeled.

''My mother''

A tall lady, dressed in deep mourning, advanced
towards him from a corner of the room where she
had been standing, threw back her veil, and after
a rapid glance at him, ran up to him and caught
him in her arms, for, so excited was he with
astonishment, that he seemed nigh unto falling.

"Thank you, Mr. Bennett," she cried. " It is
indeed my son. Herbert, this is your brother."

Charles was so utterly bewildered that he stood
quite still, and spake never a word, but with open
mouth, stared at Mr. Bennett as if for an explanation.


Yes, that is your brother," said the barrister,
1 give you my word for it."

Dear Charles," cried Herbert, springing forward.
" I am no less astonished than you are, I

VOL. III. G

can hardly believe it, and yet I can scarcely love
you more as a brother than I do as a friend. How
wonderful it is. Come, Charlie."

But Charles drew back. No, he did not like this.
He had had his grievance, and had borne it alone,
lie did not want a partner in it now. Then he had
always patronized Herbert as a very respectable
young man, but had also always looked on him as
an inferior and could hardly accept him as a
brother. Then there was no proof but the barrister's
word, and Charles, glancing at Mr. Bennett's
excited face and manner, remembered what
that gentleman had said about his malady, and it
seemed probable that he was only suffering a relapse.
But as he looked at Herbert's open,
generous face, and saw the joy and love and
pleasure depicted thereon, and noticed the smile
of warm affection and the outstretched arms, he
felt how mean his impulse had been, how much
worthier and better a fellow Herbert was than he ;
and his better nature getting hold of him, he too
gave a smile and put out his arms, and felt rewarded
when in the warm embrace of his brother,
he felt that he was no longer alone, but that at
least one loving heart was bound to him by the
strong ties of brotherhood.

Charles, have you nothing for your mother ? "
said the lady.

Charles looked at her. He at last realized that
there, in person, stood before him the woman he
had always hated, the woman whom in bitter
grief he had so often cursed, the woman whom he

had dreamt of as the evil spirit of this life. He
looked at her earnestly and long, and scanned her
well. She was no common peasant wench, no
flaunting actress of some low theatre, no vulgar
woman of the people, but tall, graceful, and, but
for the deep melancholy of her face, exceedingly
beautiful; abundance of chestnut hair, flecked
here and there with streaks of grey, large, lustrous,
luminous eyes, a beautiful mouth, beautiful in
despite of the sorrows it bespoke, an expression of
chastity, purity and world weariness, a skin white
as alabaster, a long, graceful neck, and the form
and figure of an aristocrat ; he marked them all.

Well, too, did he mark, and his heart bled as he
did so, the utter melancholy, the deep-seated regret,
the sorrow that her face expressed. What must
she have suffered ; must not her sufferings, her
sorrow have been infinitely greater than his.
And there she stood, with a timid questioning
look, with a fitful tinge of colour coming to her
white cheeks, or leaving them, leaving them
whiter than before, with her arms, but just now
stretched out to embrace him, her eldest, her long-lost
sou, dropping in despair as she saw that from
him she could expect no forgiveness, no pity, no
love, as she recognised that indeed he had learned
to curse her name, and that he, like the rest of the
cruel world, had cast her off, and disowned her.

Charles, it was not my fault."

But still he moved not. Xo, she had left him,
she had abandoned him, she was the unnatural
mother, it was her sin and her folly that were the

cause that for all his life lie had been an outcast,
a pariah ; that his name had been a byword
amongst men ; it was too late now. Her love was
too worthless an offering now. All her affection,
all her love, all her repentance, could not unsay
one insult spoken against him, one reproach cast,
one jeer, one jibe levelled at him. For so many
years motherless, did he need a mother now? All
bis youth spent in yearnings, his heart had no
yearning now; famishing in his boyhood for his
mother's love, his heart had died, and knew the
cruel famine for love not any more. He had asked
for bread, and a stone had been offered to him.
He needed bread no longer.

That is my mother ! " he said to himself,
trying to waken beneath that devotional name
some feeling of tenderness. " My mother ! "
Name cursed a hundred times — on sleepless couch,
on solitary walk, 'mid the happy homes of others,
where he had felt his solitude, his misery, all
the more. " That is my mother — mother ? —
mother ? — mother ? ^'

Then he looked at her again, and noticed for
the first time that everybody in the room was
silent, and looking at him ; while she stood
there, casting now and then tender glances of
love and remorse and supplication at him.
How very beautiful she was ! How proud he
might have been of her ; how he would, how
be could, have loved her ! How he would have
struggled for her kiss, for her embrace ; how he
-would have dreamed of her all night and followed

her all day ; from how much sin and folly she
-would have saved him ; how sunny his youth
might have been, how dark and sunless it had
been ; but now that his heart was seared and
blighted, now that he had drunk his cup of bitterness
to the dregs — now, surely, it was not the
time for her to come and claim his love as her due,
his embrace as her tribute.

Charles' silence was terribly painful to all
around, and most of all to his mother. She,
bitterly wounded, moved sadly away and covered
her streaming eyes with her little white hand.

Then Charles sprang forward. The magic name
of '^ mother " had conquered. That fair angel
weeping before him was his mother. Falling on
his knees he seized her hand, and pressing his lips
to it kissed it, saying —

My mother, my own mother, forgive me ! "

She raised him up tenderly, and throwing her
arms round his neck embraced him, kissing his
lips, and eyes, and neck and hair in a passion of
pent-up longing and burning love.

My own Charles, my first-born ; my handsome,
beautiful boy ! Why did I ever leave you ?
Why did I leave you? Oh, Charlie, it is T that
must beg for forgiveness, not you. I have
nothing: to forgive. You could not love me. You
thought that I was the cause of your sorrow, your
disgrace. It was very natural. You mast have
cursed me over and over again. But I am your
mother, Charlie ; nothing can undo that. Oh, I,
too, have suffered; I, too, have longed for my firstborn

; I, too , have yearned for you. You will

hear it was not all my fault. You will hear that

before you judge too hastily of me."

Charles, disengaging himself from his mother's

arms, dashed the tears from his eyes and turned

to Mr. Bennett, saying —

'' Now, sir, please explain all this mystery."
Mr. Bennett went up to Mrs. Dixon and said —
Are you ready, madam, to tell your part of the

story? I will speak next."

Mrs. Dixon, composing herself with a visible

effort, took her first-born's hand in hers and began

her story.

MRS. DIXOn's Story.

I WAS born in Guernsey, first child and eldest
daughter of the Rev. John Herbert Lovell, rector
of the parish of St. Peter's Port, and of Millicent
Lovell, his wife. "When I was fourteen years old,
my sister Esther was born, and at the same time
my dear mother died, following my father to the
grave — he had died four months previously.
After the death of our parents we were taken
care of by a Miss Le Page, my mother's sister, a
middle aged lady, who lived in the island. We
stayed with her a year and some months. She
was very kind to us, and wished to keep us with
her altogether, although we were necessarily a
burden to her, for she was not rich, but yielded at
last to the earnest wish of my father's brother,
Stanley Lovell, a single gentleman who lived at
Broseley, who very much wished to have his
brother's orphans in his home.

Accordingly we went to him — would that we
had never entered the house ! He was most unkind
to me, being of a very violent temper and intensely
irritable. I, too, in my youth was cursed with a
Violent temper, and our quarrels were frequent and
bitter. One day he so far forgot himself as to casta
reproach on the memory of my dear mother. I
retorted, and he was so rude that I resolved, in hot,.

foolish, girlish haste, to leave his house. I had
some money, and was not without some worldly
wisdom, and felt quite ready to face the world. I
can hardly now remember what I proposed doing ;
in hot haste I had formed my resolution and in hot
haste I acted. It was in the evening, and Esther
was in bed. I ran upstairs to my room, and waited
till I heard my uncle leave the house — he was
dining out somewhere that night ; then I made a
few hasty preparations, gathered my money and
jewels together, tied a few things up in a handkerchief,
went to Esther's room — the nurse was out —
took her from her little bed, dressed her, and left
my nucleus house with her for ever.

I suppose all men and women who leave home
to make their fortunes turn to London with bright
hopes and expectations ; I know I did. My hopes
were very bright, for I felt unlimited confidence
in myself, in my strength of will and firmness of
purpose. I looked to the stage to realize these
hopes ; I had a good voice, and had acted successfully
in some private theatricals and charades that
head been given at my uncle's house and by
Broseley friends.

I had not the least doubt that any manager
would at once engage me at a fabulous salary, and
Bohemian life seemed to me the only life worth
living.

I need not say that none of these hopes were
realized. I went to the managers of nearly every
theatre in London, and was everywhere met with,
refusal, and even ridicule or insult. My stock of

money soon dwindled down, and, although I little
minded hardship for myself, I could not bear to
see my little Esther suffer. Soon I had to part
with my jewels, and soon, too, my clothes began
to go, for no sacrifice seemed to me too great to
be made on her behalf. But as the purchase
money of these paltry articles began very quickly
to disappear, and starvation began to stare me in
the face I felt my courage failing me, and more
than once I thought of writing to my uncle and
praying for his assistance. My pride, however,
always revolted from such a step, and I felt that
any suffering would be preferable to comfort procured
by an appeal to the man who had insulted
my mother.

I had come to my last shilling one day, and
was in a terrible state of mind as I looked at the
paltry little coin, held in so little account by the
inhabitants of the great, luxurious, extravagant
city around me, which stood between me and
starvation, and what was infinitely worse and
more heart-rending, the starvation of my little
sister. I cannot now recall all the thoughts that
passed through my mind, all the vague, wild
plans I formed, only to dismiss them from my
thoughts in despair. I had tried every theatre,
almost, in London, and had failed to get employment
at each and all ; but suddenly there flashed
across my mind the name of a very fashionable
West End theatre, which I had never tried. I
had always been frightened and nervous, it seemed
£0 grand and elegant of entering it, and had never

been able to muster up sufficient courage to present
myself to the manager. Hunger, however,
and despair soon, bring ones courage to the
sticking-point, and I determined then, as a last
resource, to see if the manager of the Theatre des
Chameaux~for so it was called — was in need of a
figurante or of a soubrette. Mj grand ideas of
bursting, comet-like, upon London, as a second
Vestries or Siddons had, as you see, soon humbled
themselves down.

^' Well, dressing myself as prettily as I could
out of the scanty stock of dresses left to me, and
foolishly, girl-like, wasting one of my two sixpences
in buying a rose to put in my hair, I set
out for the Theatre des Chateau. I well remember
lingering about in the street before I
could muster up sufficient courage to ring at the
entrance to the manager's office. I must have
waited fully an hour, and I blush now as I think
of the way in which I was addressed by the
passers-by. One young fellow, I particularly remember,
pestered me with his foolish talk, vainly
endeavouring to get me into a conversation with
him. He was a young man who was very well
known in London at that time, and I knew his
name. He afterwards was shot at Baden-baden
by an enraged husband, or went into the Church
and became Bishop of L — , I forget which it was.
Anyhow, it was to escape his attentions that I
took heart and, running across the street, rang"
the manager's bell.

After stating my business, I was requested hj

the powdered and supercilious footman who
opened the door for me to wait whilst he acquainted
M. Lapin, the directeur, of my presence. I waited
some time, and from where I was sitting could
hear what was going on in the manager's private
room, the door of which opened on to the entry
where I was waiting. Although very nervous and
excited I listened with some anxiety to hear what
answer M. Lapin would give to the servant, and if
he would grant me an interview. M. Lapin, from
the sounds which issued from his room, appeared
to be making merry with his friends, for I heard
the sounds of many voices and much laughter.
The conversation, as far as I could hear, treated
chiefly about actresses, noblemen, and horses, and
was liberally spiced with fashionable oaths and
current Parisian slang. The footman who had
given me admittance did not at once carry my
message to his master ; but, standing opposite tome
at a disrespectful distance, occupied himself
with his nails and in trying to enter into conversation
with me. When he found this useless,
and had in vain repeatedly solicited me to give him
the flower I wore as a ' suvveneer/ he at last condescended
to inform M. Lapin of my call.

With beating heart, and with half a mind to
call him back, I watched him knock at the door
and enter the room. I then heard the following
conversation :

' What do you want, Alphonse ? '

<' « A girl has called ; she wishes to see you, sir''

"'A what?'

"'A girl

' What— ah— what is she like ? '

'' Alphonse gave no answer ; he made some
pantomimic gesture, I presume, probably uncomplimentary
to me, for I heard a shout of laughter.

"Presently I heard the thin, affected voice,
which. I attributed to the Trench manager, again —

' So she is '—

'^ A pause ; then there came another roar of
laughter.

I felt so indignant at being made a subject of
mirth amongst men whom I really despised, and so
enraged at the insolence of the footman, that I
rose to go. Then I remembered poor little Esther
and stayed.

' In fact, Alphonse, you think that Ca ira, Ca
ira, Ca ira ? '

' Probably, M'sieu.'

' What do you say, gentlemen, shall we have
her in ? What do you say, Assommant ? '

A rough, harsh, drunken voice answered —

' I done care. Is she beautiful, Alphonse ? '

I suppose the insolent fellow pretended to
Plush, for I heard more laughter and cries of —

^ Don't blush, Alphonse ; we won't take her
from you.'

' Well,' said the manager, ' let her come in.'

' I say, Lapin,^ interrupted a voice which I
had not heard before, but which seemed to belong
to the only gentleman present, 'I say, Lapin,
hadn't you better see her alone, and not bring
her in here ? It's hardly a place for a girl. She

may be some poor, innocent creature looking for
employment, who will sink to the ground with
shame on entering a room filled with such company.
Look, there is Assommant nearly drunk ; then
look at those pictures, those prints. Why, you
wouldn't receive a strange ballet-girl in here, and
why'—

Several voices here interrupted the speaker.
First came the rough, harsh, drunken voice I had
heard before.

' Privilege, my lord, privilege ; d — n it all,
privilege. Lapin wants her in here, company
wants — look at her. I want to look at her ; we
all want to look at her. Lapin shan't see her
alone. D— n Lapin, why should he see her alone?
D — n Lapin, my lord ; why should he look at her
alone? Curse Lapin, my lord; why shouldn't
she come in here ? Tour lordship's 'earth, my
lord.'

' Do I show her in, gentlemen, or do I not ? '
said the voice of Alphonse.

' Do you really object, my lord ? ' said the
manager.

'' ' He can't object,' said Assommant, ' why can
he object? Majority carries the day. We all want
her in. Show her in, Alphonse. Your 'earth, my
lord.'

"Alphonse came out, and with an insolent
gesture, and a still more insolent look, beckoned
me to step forward.

1 can well remember thinking, as I entered
the room, what a pity it was that no Hogarth was

there to draw the scene 1 beheld. Had I not been
endowed with the strength of despair and with
the natural firmness of my precocious character, I
should of a necessity have turned round and fled.
A set of dissolute, half-drunken men, lounging in
ungraceful attitudes in a room meretriciously f ure
wished ; an atmosphere heavy with, tobacco smoke
and redolent of the smell of spirits and of wine ;
coarse faces, lewd pictures, a general extravagance,
which seemed to me almost affected. That
was what I saw in M. Lapin's room.

I was greeted by some suppressed chuckles,
one or two exclamations of admiration, and a
mock bow from a debauched-looking lad. Nobody
else moved, and I stood still, certainly perplexed.
At last one of the company whispered to a man ina
yellow satin dressing-gown and embroidered
magenta velvet slippers, and the man in the yellow
satin dressing-gown got up and said —

^'lam M. Lapin, ma chere, did you want to
see me ? '

' Yes, monsieur I answered.

' Did you come about an engagement ? '

' Yes.'

'' ' Have I seen you before ? '

"'IS-o.'

' What kind of a place do you want? ^

' As Jigiirante, souhrette, chorus.'

' Ah, can you dance ? ^

"eyes.'

"the can-can?'

"what is that?'

'' Mj last question was greeted with a shout of
laughter. I noticed however, that one handsome
young gentleman, who sat apart from the others,
and who looked rather disgusted at the behaviour
of his comrades, did not join in this laugh, otherwise
general.

The silly boy who had made me the mock bow
when I entered, and who was then sitting on the
table smoking a cigar and drinking brandy, jumped
down and said —

' Don't you know what the can-can is, miss ?
What part of the world may you come from?
Shall I show you what the can-can is? It's this
sort of game. Look here.'

'^ He then began to dance in a most extravagant
manner, throwing his arms and legs about in every
direction. He finished, giddy or drunk, by falling
on the floor, where he lay laughing like an idiot,
pleased with the applause of his friends.

"'If that is the can-can," said I, ''I do not
know it.'

"*Ah, my dear,' said M. Lapin, 'polkas and
quadrilles are very nice for parties, but on the
stage, specially on the Des Chateau stage, we
want something more, more '' —

' Suggestive,' said somebody.

"Tor shame, de Viscount,' cried the gentleman
I have mentioned as sitting apart. ' For
shame ! '

' Well,' continued M. Lapin ' can you sing? '

' Yes

' What songs do you know ? I should like to
hear your voice.'

"'I know "lucy's Sorrow' "The Sailor's
Dream," "Mother, I am Coming," '' The Malvern
Hills," ' answered I, quoting the name of one or
two simple songs of the time.

M. Lapin smiled ; the rest shouted.

' Don't you know " Pin, Pin," or " La Belle
Bohemian," or " La Grosse Margate," or ^' Orisons
Pantalons? " ' continued the manager.

' 1 have never heard of them.'

^ Well, will you try one ? De Agincourt, will
you accompany the lady?'

"'By Jove, won't I!' cried this gentleman;
what is it to be ? '

' Uu sont mes pantalons? " ' they all cried.

De Agincourt rushed to the piano, and seating
himself, began to play a jingling, loud, and
horribly vulgar tune.

' These are the words, ma cMrCj said the
manager, placing the song in my hands. ' Read
the music over first.'

I took the sheet and looked at it ; I had no
difficulty in reading the music, it was like all
popular tunes — vulgar, a mere unscientific jangle
of loud notes. Then I looked at the words —

Oil sont mes pantalons, Babette ?
Disait un jour Gustave.

"It was what I had expected — a licentious
Parisian music hall song, stupid, not witty, and
obscene. This I, a girl of only eighteen, fresh

from the country, was to sing before a half-drunken
company of London profligates. When
I had read the song, and saw the smirk of
prurient anticipation on their faces, my maidenly
honour and pride were so revolted that I felt
strongly inclined to crumple uj) the sheet and
fling it in the manager's face. Then I remembered
poor little Esther crying at home, and reflected,
that if I displeased M. Lapin and failed
to get employment, how very terrible our position
would be ; so with cheeks burning with shame and
reluctant lips, I began —

Ou sont mes pant allons, Babette,
Oil sont mes pant-allons, Babette.

' Sing up, sing up ! ' cried de Yin court, for I
felt ashamed to sing such a song and sang very
low.

' Sing up, sing up ! ' cried the company.

I sang the filthy nonsense a little louder, but
came suddenly to a stop. I could not sing those
words before those men. I looked round imploringly.


^' ' Sing up, sing up ! '

' Oil sont ' ''—

' Sing up, sing up ! (she's got no liberi) . Sing
up, sing Up ! '

' What hlachguarcls you all are cried the
gentleman starting to his feet. ' It is no use
talking to you of shame, you've forgotten that
word long ago. I won't stop here and see that
girl insulted. Can't you tell a blush when you see

VOL. III. H

it? Cannot sou distinguish a decent woman from
your set ? '

*' And so saying lie walked np to me and tore
the sheet from my hand, crumpled it up andtlirew
it into a corner.

' M. Lapin continued he, ' why can't you
tell the girl at once that she won't do for you ?
You saw that the moment she entered ; you saw
her colour was a blush, not rouge; you saw tears
in her eyes, not belladonna. Whey could not you
let her go at once instead of allowing her to be
insulted by these fellows ? It's not manly, it's not
honourable, or, if those words convey no meaning
to you, it is what I will not permit ; I will not see
an innocent girl, above all, a beautiful girl like
this, insulted to excite your dirty imaginations.
Go,' said he to me, ' this is not the place for you,
child. They are only making a fool of you and
pigs of themselves.'

All was over, then ; there was to be no supper
for Esther that night, and on the morrow night
neither supper nor bed. Although very grateful to
the gentleman for his interference and for having
been spared from singing that song, I felt almost
vexed with him now that all hope of securing an
engagement was gone and starvation looked mein
the face. I burst into tears.

'^ ' There, there,' said the gentleman kindly,
don't cry, child. I will see you are not annoyed.
You had better go home, you are not the kind of
girl they want here.'

^I— I must find something to do,' I answered

between my sobs. ' I — I have a little sister at
home and no ' —

^ Where do you live ? ' he whispered.

' Folgate Mews, No. 17.'

' Well, well, go home, go home, Fll see if I
can find something for you to do.'

' Thank you, sir,' and with a look of gratitude
into his handsome eyes, I turned round and
hurried into the street.

I suppose it was by this gentleman's kind influence
that the next day I received a visit from a
music hall manager, who, after hearing me shag,
engaged me to come and sing two or three sentimental
songs every night at the Tipsy Elephant
Music Hall, Camberwell, at the rate of 35s. a week.
I gladly accepted this offer, and made my debut
the same night. It was very trying work, and
needed all my firmness and all my strength of
character, but as it stood between me and suffering
for Esther, and as I was at least respectfully
treated both by the management and the audience,
I was very well content to sacrifice my pride and
personal feelings."

POOR M OTHE K

I ^'

1 SUPPOSE I had Sling there a month, or more,
when an event, which changed all my life thereafter,
occurred. One night, I noticed amongst the
audience a face which I seemed to recognise, which
I had certainly seen before, though I could not,
for the life of me, tell where or when. I had sung
my first song, and was sitting in the room assigned
to the artistes, when one of the waiters brought
me in a card. I took it, and was both astonished
and frightened to read thereon the name of one
of the most renomme of English noblemen

THE Earl OF Berkshire.

' Who gave you this card ? ' I asked.

' A gentleman in fronts said the waiter.

' What message did he send with it ? '

' He told me to take this card to Miss
Amoretta ' — such was my nom-de-gtierre, ' and ask
you if you would see him.^

' I do not know him,^ I replied. "sit must bea
mistake.'

The waiter grinned. ' Oh,' said he, ' ladies
here, don't want much introduction-especially to
flash uns like that. What shall I say, miss ?

You'll see him, of course, and you'll give me my
hansel, I hojDe/

I tore up the card, and threw the bits in the
waiter's face, saying — ' There, you insolent fellow,
take that for your hansel.'

"He withdrew, crestfallen, leaving me a prey to
many disquieting thoughts and a wretched feeling
of anxiety.

I had hardly managed to compose my feelings,
and to take the resolution to go on to the stage
when I had to sing mj second song, when the
manager entered, and, with glee on his face, called
out to me —

* I say. Miss Hammerretter, you're in luck.
There's a live lord alter yoa. Wants to be introduced
to you. A heart and all ! '

"'He will have to have my permission first,
Mr. Mackerim,' said I ; * and that permission I
withhold.'

* Where-fore now, I say ? '

' Because I am not yet in a position to enter
into such society.'

' Bor ! but that's a good un ! '

' Good or not, I refuse to see him.'

' No, yer don't.'

' I tell you I do ; I will not, will not, see him ! '

' Yes, yer will ! '

' You cannot compel me ; we have no such
clause in our agreement.'

' Well, Miss Hammerretter, year a soft un.
It's not many Elephant girls gets a heart after
them ; and there's not many Elephant girls but

ivhat would give their heads and hears, sheenyongs
and all, to have so flash a bloke after them.'

' I do not regulate my conduct by the conduct
of the girls here,' I answered. ' Once for all, Mr.
Mackerim, I will not see any gentlemen of the
audience.'

' But surely. Miss Amoretta, yoa except old
friends ? ' said a gentleman who entered the room
at that moment.

I started ; it was the gentleman whose face I
had seemed to recognize — the gentleman who had
taken my part in M. Lapin's room.

"excuse me,' he continued, bowing — 'excuse
me, I knew that I must have startled you ; and yet
I so wanted to see you again, that I could not help
presenting myself in this most unpolite manner.'

Mr. Mackerim seemed most surprised at my
collected manner. Anyone else of his troupe would
have nearly sunk into the ground in the presence
of a real live lord.

I bowed in return to Lord Brookshire's bow,
and said —

' I, too, my lord, am glad to see you again. I
have many thanks to offer you for interfering on
my behalf that day. I have not been accustomed
to insult of that kind. Excuse me for refusing to
see you. I did not know your name, save by reputation,
and — and ' —

"you were quite right, child,' he answered;
you have quite confirmed the good opinion I had
formed of you. Mr. Mackerim, you will please to
retire. I wish to speak to Miss Amoretta alone."

'' ' I prefer that lie should remain I said.

*' Mr. Mackerim looked at me as much as to say
*Well, you are a ninny paused, put his hands
into his pockets, coughed, whistled, and finally
swaoforered out of the room.

' Why did you want that fellow to stay ? '
asked Lord Brookshire.

"* Because answered ! , 'I do not care to be
alone with you here. You must understand my
position, my lord,' I added, almost irritably.

'' ' I do,' he answered. ^ I do, I understand it
so far as to see that you are not at all in a right
position. You look a mere child by years, and yet
you have the character of a woman. You seem to
have placed yourself of your own free-will into
this life ; you seem to know all the temptations,
all the wretchedness, all the vulgarity, all the sin,
that surrounds you, and yet, buoyed up by some
strange excitement, kept up by a wonderful firmness
of purpose, or by an extraordinary love of
adventure, you brave all these temptations, rise
superior to all the folly and vice of the place,
merely for the sake of leading a Bohemian life.'

'^ ' I have graver reasons,' I answered. ' I wil
be frank with you. I have a little sister at home,
and she depends on me. I have no friends in
London ; 1 am quite alone. I work like this,
because I know no other way of living. As for
the temptations, I have not yet seen anything very
tempting in the ogling of a few badly-dressed
shop-boss , or in offers of beer from the menials of
this place.'

'^ * You are an extraordinary girl Miss '
said Lord Brookshirej with a glance of
profound admiration at me ; ' an extraordinary-girl.
May I ask how old you are ? ^

' Nearly eighteen

Only eighteen'' he cried.

*^' ' Charlotte Corday and Joan of Arc I
answered ' were women before eighteen.'

' But it was love he whispered, ' that gave
the strength of women to these girls. Have you
any such incentive ? '

' You ask me curious questions, my lord,' I
answered. ' J. do not see why I should answer
you. Well, yes, I love — my sister.'

He seemed relieved, and was, I doubt not,
going to say something further on this subject,
when I was summoned by the call-boy. It was
my turn to go on the stage, to sing my second
song.

' Good night, my lord,' I said, leaving the
room. ' Many thanks for your interference, and
many thanks for coming to see me.'

He tried to detain me, and said something
about waiting for me, and seeing me home in his
carriage. I gave no heed to this, and though I
did not misinterpret his offer, I contrived not to
meet him again that night, but returned home to
Folgate Mews immediately after I had sung my
second song."

Mrs. Dixon paused, tired, and looked questioningly
at her eldest son. Charles' behaviour
during his mother's narrative had been rather

strange, for now he would relinquish, her hand,
and move away from her ; now seize it and pressa
silent kiss ujjon it ; now look at her with a glance
of admiration, now of pity, now of fearful doubt ;
now spring impatiently to his feet and walk about
the room ; now bury his face in his hands.

Nobody spoke a word save Herbert, who said —
Poor mother ! ^^ That was all that was said.

Tell AND WELL, Tell AND WELL."

Presently Lady BrooksMre resumed her story : —
Next night Lord Brookshire was not there. I
thought that he might come ; and though I felt
relieved at not seeing him, I still felt rather disappointed.
The audience at the Tipsy Elephant
Music Hall was chiefly composed of shopboys and
tradespeople, with one or two exceptions ; and it
was to me a great pleasure to see amongst them
one of the first gentlemen of the kingdom thereto
see me, and to hear me sing. He was so handsome,
so refined, so graceful, that it was a real
pleasure to me to look at him, and, though I had
avoided him, I dearly longed to speak with him
again. It was not so much his nobility that attracted
me, for I was very well accustomed to the
society of people of rank, and I had met many at
my uncle's house ; but it was his face, his air, his
manner, his esprits and something indefinable in
his behaviour that made me wish to see him again.
Two or three nights passed, and still he did
not come ; and each night I felt more sorry, for I
feared that my abrupt behaviour had offended him
and that I might never see him again.

I felt so dreadfully out of place amongst all
the common people I lived with, and was surrounded
by, that I often yearned for the society

of refined people ; and when I felt that bj my
conduct I had placed myself beyond the pale of
any such society, I, at times, bitterly regretted the
step I had taken in leaving my uncle's house. I
have not now much time, or muck inclination to
relate what I suffered, nor to what insults I was
exposed; but I will confess that, strong as was
my love for adventure, I soon found that La Vie de
Boheme was not all so attractive as I had fancied,
and very ill-suited to so young and sensitive a girl
as I was.

Well, two or three nights passed, and I saw no
more of my noble friend, and during that time I
had to suffer many taunts from the vulgar women
of our troupe, whose jealousy bad been awakened,
and who now gratified their malice by laughing at
the faithlessness of my supposed lover. Strange
to say, their inconsiderate pleasantry put strange
thoughts into my head. Could this man be indeed
a lover ? Could I have won his heart ? Could my
beauty — for I knew myself to be of an exceeding
beauty — and my refined manner, have created admiration?
Such were the questions that I put to
myself when I heard him spoken of as my lover,
though, as I knew, in jest. I was but a girl,
wildly adventurous, steeped in flighty romance,
and I presently began to think that it was not
improbable that the Earl of Brook shire had conceived
a passion for me. The thought was so
delightful, that I nursed it. Had he not asked me
if I had not the incentive of love in the life I was
leading ? Why would he have asked me such a

question had lie not feared a rival ? Then I began
to think whether I could love him too, and I felt
that ahead I was drawn towards him, that he was
handsome, and generous, and pleasant, and — well,
if I did not love him, why did my heart beat so
violently when I thought of him?

I was in this state of feeling, therefore, when
I saw him again. He was sitting in one of the
boxes in the hall. I saw him as soon as ever I
stepped on to the stage, and very nervous did I
become. I could hardly sing the song I had to
sing ; and, but for my being a favourite with the
audience, should have certainly incurred their displeasure.
I had my eyes on him the whole time,
and I saw, with some grief, that he was drinking
hard.

"" As soon as I had got somehow through my song
I retreated hastily to the green-room, half-hoping,
half-fearing, to find him waiting for me. But my
hopes as well as my fears were causeless, for he did
not come; and it was only after I had made my
third appearance on the stage, and was getting
ready to depart, that I met him.

^' He accosted me, and bidding me good-evening,
asked me in a serious tone of voice whether I could
speak to him for a few minutes.

'' I was too sensible a girl to be coquettish, and
1 at once acceded to his request.

He then said —

'' ' Will you tell me the truth about yourself ? '

' What truth ? ' asked I.

'^ ' Who you are, and what your name is ? '

'' ' My name is Miss Amoretta ; I am a singer
at this music-hall.'

*' ' Where do you come from ? '

'Folgate Mews.'

' That is for the world. You will be more con-^
siding to me.'

« Why should I ? You are but of the world
for me, my lord.'

' Not at all,' he answered very seriously. ' I
am not at all of the world for you.'

'What else can you be, my lord? You have
seen me three times — as — well — as what I am.'

"^As what?'

' As a music-hall singer.'

' Bah. I have seen you with different eyes
than the yelling shop-boys to whom you have been
singing. I ask you to tell me who you are ?'

"a have.'

' You have not. Your name is not Amoretta,
any more than Montmorency is the name of the
painted hag who is yelling indecencies on the stage
at this moment.'

' My name is Amoretta for the world and for
you.'

' I ask you once more,' he said, with intense
earnestness, ' not to confound me with the world.'

' Why ? ' asked I, with tremulous voice and
palpitating bosom.

' Because,' he answered, with growing passion,
because I am interested in you; because I know
that you are not of the world in which I see you ;
because I see that you are of gentle birth and not

an anonyma ; because I can see and have seen, that
yon are as virtuous as you are beautiful ; because
I feel interested in you, who so young, so passing"
fair, so talented, so brave, have, as I believe,
forced yourself into this life. Because I have
admired you ever since I first saw you. Because
I would help you.^

I answered coldly —

' Your lordship's help would not be of great
use to me.'

^ Ah,^ he cried, ' You, too, are of the world,
and because it has pleased some idle gossip-longer
to bandy my name about, linking it with
foul adventuresses, who, side by side with yon,
have no claim to the name of woman, you, too,
look on me as a vulgar profligate, a common
debauchee, and turn upon me.'

' I do not. I know nothing evil of you ; that
would make no matter with me. Yon are a gentleman;
and be you profligate or no profligate, I
presume you will always be that.'

"what?'

'A gentleman.'

' What do you mean? '

' That I do not care whether you be a profligate
or not, as little as I care whether the gang
of boys who pester me as I leave this hall, and go
home, be profligates or not.'

He stared at me ; then he said —

' You are a very strange girl.'

' Why,' I cried, ' I am no child. I know
exactly what men and women are worth, and T

Tinow my own worth. 1 know what I am exposed
to here. I know the character of the people here,
and the general character of the audience. What
has that to do with me ? I come here to earn my
living, and the living of my little sister ; I earn
it, and that is all. The morality or immorality of
others does not interest me — why should it ? I
have nothing to do with them.'

'^ ' Now you must tell me who you are."

' Why now more than before ? '

'^ ' Because I am more than ever interested in
sou.'

' Why do you want to know ? '

"'ShaUItellyou?'

' I ask you.'

'' ' Well, listen. I am sick of the world. I am
sick of the men and women I meet. I am weary
of flattery, of adulation, of false friendship. I
am disgusted with the town. I am sated with the
subservience paid to my title and to my fortune.
I have long wished to get away from this false,
tinselly, garnish Inferno. I came to London to look
for a wife — nay, do not move away— and have had
all female London trotted out before me, but I
saw at once that it was only my coronet and my
purse that was wanted, and I have the vanity to
wish to be loved for myself. I have long looked
for a pure, tender, beautiful girl who would love
me, and have felt that with her I could be happy.
I will be straightforward with you, I think that I
have found that woman. I love you.'

He put out his arms to me. Oh, how handsome

lie looked, and how my head swam, and how
my heart beat.

' Now will you tell me a little about yourself? *

' My lord, you are joking

' Iso, child, I am not. I really love you. I
feel that with you I could be very happy. I wish
to take you away from this odious town, and you
and I and the little sister would go together to
some pretty cottage in some quiet English village,
where we would live all our lives and be very
happy together. I love you truly and well.'

' Truly and Well, Truly and Well.' "

There LITTLE WORDS.

^^ CoxTiNrE, madam, if sou please' said Charles.

'' Mother, go on,-'-' said Herbert.

Herbert was sitting at his mother's feet, casting
affectionate glances of love and pity at her beautiful
pain-drawn face; Charles, cold, frigid, unpitying,
leant against the mantel shelf gnawing his
nether lip. Mrs. Dixon, fatigued with much
talking, was looking anxiously at her first-born to
see what effect her narrative had produced ; John
Bennett sat at the table taking notes of what she
had said, nodding his head from time to time, as
who should sav, " Yes, yes, that is quite correct ;
we can corroborate that, m^lud."

Presently Mrs. Dixon began again —

"Well, we were married. At least, I never
thought it a real marriage. It did not take place
in a church, but before some witnesses. I almost
forget what the ceremony was. It took place in
Scotland, and Lord Brookshire called it a Scotch
marriage. We went to Scotland a few days after
he had first spoken of love and went through this
ceremony. I entreated Lord Brookshire to marry
me in London, but he refused, saying he did not
wish to give idle scandal-mongers something to
talk about. I was so intoxicated with the delirious

VOL. III. I

passion of a girl's first love that I hardly heeded
what form the marriage took. He assured me that
it was legal, and I believed him, or, rather, I
thought little about it, so I felt his kisses on my
mouth and neck, and his arms about me, and his
heart pulsing against mine. We lived together hia
beautiful little house in a village near Kirkwall
in Scotland, and never was woman as happy
as I was. Oh, how kind he was, how loving, how
devoted ! Ah me, the walks we took together, the
simple rural pleasures we enjoyed, the nectar we
drank from each other's lips, the quiet, the peace,
the devotion of our lives."

^' Under what name did you live thus, madam?"
interrupted Mr. Bennett.

As Mr. and Mrs. St. John."

Ha," cried Charles, '' Mr. Bennett, you have
been laughing at me," and angrily he made for
the door.

Stop," cried Mr. Bennett, '^ do not go. Hear
your mother and then hear me."

As Mr. and Mrs. St. John," continued Mrs.
Dixon, pressing her hand to her heart. " He took
that name when we took the house ; and to me,
Bohemian, that I was, this seemed to give an extra
charm to the romance of our lives."

'' As what did he marry you, mamma? " asked
Herbert.

As the Earl of Brookshire. That took place
near the border, in the town of M — . When we
came to Kirkwall and took our cottage he took
the name of St. John ; I believe I chose it. He

was more precious to me than many saints.
Well, there and thus we lived, and with us the
little sister. In less than a year my eldest boy
was born."

Everybody looked at Charles. He was very pale.

"Another alias, '^ he cried. "Not Charles
Hauberk, not even Charles Benson. !Now it is
Charles St. John Charles Amoretta, Charles
Lovell, Charles Dixon, Charles God knows what.
A goodly company, God's truth ! ''

Nobody made any remark, and Mrs. Dixon continued
—

V\'hen Charles was born and I had got over my
confinement. Lord Brookshire said that now that
we had a son we should no longer live in this way,
and took us all away to Appledean Manor. I
entered this house as his wife, as the Countess
of Brookshire, with my son as Lord Hauberk."

Charles smiled, and walking across the room
took a chair and sat down by Mrs. Dixon's side.

From the very moment I entered Appledean
Manor I felt a change had come over Lord Brookshire.
Was it that, the first transports over, his
passion was cooling down, or that, surrounded by
the symbols, portraits, and relics of his ancestors,
he began to regret his alliance with a girl whom
he had taken from a music hall, I do not know.
What I do know is, that my life at the Manor
became a very anxious one. The causes of my
anxiety were manifold. Firstly, Charles, Lord
Brookshire I mean, became very cold towards me,
and coldness passing into irritability we had frequent

quarrels. Secondly, nobody ever came to
the Manor, neither friends nor visitors, not even
did the parson ever call on me. Thirdly, though
I had been married to him now several months,
and had entered his house as his true and lawful
wife, none of the servants ever addressed me by
my title, nor did my name appear in any of the
lists of nobility that are published yearly. So
gradually the terrible thought began to weigh on
me, that our Scotch marriage was only a farce,
that I was only my lords mistress, and tint my
baby boy was a mere bastard. As this dreadful
misgiving began more and more firmly to occupy
my mind the more angry did I become towards
my husband. I was a proud girl, and I felt
bitterly the position I supposed myself to be in
Being suspicious of Lord Brookshire, and angry
with him, I daresay I was no pleasant companion
for him, and he frequently left me to go to town,
to the town which, as he had once told me, he
hated as a garish, false, tinselly Inferno. Strong as
had been my suspicions before, they almost received
a final confirmation one day when I chanced to
read in one of the London papers a short paragraph
which spoke of a marriage being on the tapis
between a certain Earl of B— and the Lady
Jocelyn M — , daughter of the Duke of S — .

My lord was away at the time or I should have
gone straight to him and have taxed him with
his treachery, the more bitterly because I felt that
soon a second innocent child would be born to
bear also the shame of its mother.

Lord Brookshire^s behaviour towards me when
lie returned quite confirmed mj suspicions. He
was quite a changed man; no longer kind, he
wanted at times even in courtesy towards me,
and by rude speeches or chilling slights showed
me that he looked upon me as one in his way.

"Not only was he unkind to me and to my
baby, but also very harsh towards his servants
and tenants. Often and often did I intercede for
some victim of his evil humours, and as often was
I repelled. The final scene of this miserable life
we were leading together soon came.

'how well do I recall the day ! It was a bleak,
cold day of March, and my lord was in the worst
of tempers. There occupied one of his farms a
deserving, but unfortunate, man named William
Carson, who found scant favour in the eyes of
Lord Brookshire. It appeared that this unhappy
man had for some time past been unable to pay
his rent. Times were bad, his wife was ailing,
some of his children, too, were sick abed, and all
his little capital had gone in coping with these
domestic afflictions. Lord Brookshire, however,
had no pity on him, and had told me that he
meant to enforce an eviction. On the yesterday
of the day when our final rupture took place, I
bad been down to Carson's farm to see these poor
people and to comfort the poor wife, who with her
dying lips had prayed me to use my influence with
their landlord, and to see that she might at least
die in the homestead where she had lived and not
in the fields or in some ditch. I promised to do

A Battered HOifOTJR.

my best, fhougli I well knew how little power I
tad. Well, on that fatal clay I was sitting in my
morning-room in the Manor— it was about midday,
and I had been thinking how best to present
my petition for the unhappy family, when I heard
Lord Brookshire ^' —

Why," interrupted Charles angrily, " do you
always speak of him as ' my lords or as ' Lord
Brookshire,' if indeed he was your husband ? ''

Hush," said Mr. Bennett, "listen."

Listen, Charles," said Mrs. Dixon, " listen.
When I heard Lord Brookshire's step I wondered
rather, for he had of late quite abandoned me. I
lived in my rooms and he in his, and often weeks
passed without our seeing each other. My heart
beat as the pleasant thought came to me that
perhaps he had come to tell me that the old love
had been made new again, and that I was still to
him what I had been before. But this thought
and this hope were but of a moment's duration.
I could hear him speaking in the passage, and to
this day I recall his words. He was speaking to
the under-steward and I heard him say —

' Now you know my orders, James. Carson is
to be evicted tomorrow. You are to give the
strictest orders to the keepers on the estate to
shoot every d — d fox they see. You will see that
the traps and spears are laid about in the coverts ;
Fll teach the hunt to laugh at my riding again.
And if that rascally surveyor comes here again he
is to be thrown into the lake. The scoundrels !
They would run their filthy railway through my

land, would they ? Well I will see who is master
here — I, Earl of Brookshire, or that gang of
Birmingham cotton-spinners. But the most important
things James, is that Carson is to be
turned bag and baggage, out of his farm tomorrow
morning. I won't have such men on my
place — an idle, good-for-nothing pack of ruffians.
Now you know my orders, and take care that you
obey them, and to the letter.'

I heard him stamp his foot ; then he entered
furiously into ni}^ room. My baby was lying in its
cradle by my side. He at once began to find fault
with me for having the boy with me.

' What, Dura,^ he cried, ' is that boy here ?
Have I not told you a hundred times that the
proper place for children is the nursery? Will you
never learn to respect my commands ? '

"commands! Charles,' I retorted, rather indignantly.


' Yes, commands,' he cried.

I rang the bell and bade the servant remove
the baby. Then I went up to him, and timidly
laying my hand on his arm said—

'' ' Tell me, Charles, you do not really mean to
turn poor Carson out tomorrow ? '

' You heard my orders, I suppose ; did you
not ? ' he answered.

*^ ' Yes,' I said pleadingly ; ' but I do not think
you can mean what you say. You were angry
Charlie ; put out, were you not ? Think of the
weather, the cold wind, the snow on the ground*
You' would not abandon homeless to these this

unhappy family, tMs poor man, the dying wife and
all their little children ? '

' Poor man, Dora ! ' he cried. ' Poor man, if
he is indeed poor he has no right to take my farm.
He has not paid a farthing rent for two quarters.
I don't believe his wife is dying ; those people
are always pretending to be ill. As to all their
children — why did t\\Qj have so many if they cannot
feed them ? '

' Oh, Charles I pleaded. ' No, you do not
mean it, I know. Listen. I was at Carson's
yesterday, and saw his wife. Poor woman, she is
indeed dying

^' ^ You were at Carson's yesterday ? ' he cried.

' Yes, Charles.'

' Then what the d — 1 did you mean by going
there ? Have not I forbidden you that house a
hundred times, a thousand times? What business
have you to go secretly planning and plotting
against me with my tenants ? If it is pleasant to
you to play the holy Elizabeth I will be your
Louis, I warrant you. You disobey me everyday.'


' My lord ? '

' Yes,' he shouted, ' and remember that I am
your lord. You forget yourself. You forget what
you were before you came here.'

' Oh, no, I do not,' I answered. ' You do not
let me.'

*' ' I say you do,' he retorted. ' I won't be interrupted.
I took you from the stage of a common,
music hall in London. Do you deny it ? '

"why should I?'

' Aye, you had better not. Tou were a common
singer; I was a fool and fell in love with ^^ou. 1
took you to Scotland and then I brought you here.
I made you mistress of the finest estate in England.
I made you everything ' —

' Except your wife I shouted.

Oh, fool that I was ! Oh madness ! for the sake
of a moment's evil temper to use that taunt. It
stung him for a moment, but the pain recoiled onto
me, and never while my weary life lasts, will I
cease to regret saying those angry words. How
many many times have I struck my lips with all my
force fur uttering those three words. Three lit lie
words, that took but one second in utterance and
yet have rendered my whole life one reproach, one
regret, one long, unceasing, indefatigable misery.
Oh ! bitterly, bitterly have I paid for indulging
my temper then, this seared heart of mine has
bled, if hearts do bleed, till it has become a sapless,
bloodless stone. But for those three wor Is,
I might have lived with my children together near
me, might have enjoyed the sweet delights of
motherhood, have spared myself shame and disgrace,
and, above all, a million times more important
might have spared my dear boy, my first born
.son, my Charles, a life of reproach. Oh, Charlie,
my son, my eldest, my first-born, do not stand
looking at me in angry contempt. If you have
suffered, my poor son, be assured that I have
suffered more, I know I have suffered more. I
know it, for I know that no one, man or woman.

could be tormented in a worse pnrgator j than I have
been. Ah, the sleepless nights I have passed weeping
for your orphan youth, weeping to think that
all your child years were being spent far from me,
your mother, weeping and quivering, as I imagined
what insult, what slights you were suffering,
shuddering to think that the dear baby lips, I had
kissed were formulating curses on me— so horrible
a thought that I have prayed that you might have
died before you learned to hate me. Oh, the many
hours of loneliness, when, thousands of miles away
from you, I have stretched out my arms to you,
have blown kisses to my lost child with wincing
lips, have conjured your dear face up in mj^ mind
for a solace, have beaten the breasts that gave
suck to you for the foolish heart they covered, the
foolish heart that, pulsing with a moment's irritation,
made me utter words that were my undoing,
and the undoing of you, my son. Nay, Herbert,
do not look downcast, you have always been a dear
child to me. I have always loved you, you have
never, never caused me a sorrow, but you can
understand and will understand, that I thought
more of the lost one whom I had not, than of you,
dear boy, whom I had ! "

'' Dear mother, of course you did. I was not
downcast about that. I was thinking how yon
must have sorrowed. I was thinking that I ought
to have shared that sorrow," said Herbert.

LOOK, WHAT SHE HAS DONE ! "

Charles did not make any remark. He was
deeply touched, yes, even prone to tears, by his
mother's passionate outcry, which told him how
she had loved him, how she had longed for him,
what sorrow had been hers. He felt ashamed as
lie remembered how he thought of her, what angry
thoughts he had harboured against her. He felt
very sorry as he watched her beautiful face working
with painful excitement, her dear mouth
wincing with pain, her luminous, love-animated
eyes turning on him with a fervent yet timid expression,
as though she feared that all this came too
late, that he, who had so long foregone her love,
could well forego it now, that, so long abandoned
by her, she was but a stranger to him, that the
story of her anguish, of her blighted life, blighted
by his absence, did not, could not awake, ever so
subdued, an echo in his heart. He felt all this;
and there had come to him once or twice, an impulse
to rush at her, and clasp her neck, and kiss
away her tears and tell her that for that he had
been motherless all these years he needed a mother
ill the more now, to tell her in burning words of
love, that she was no stranger to him, but his
mother, his own mother ; that the past should be
of the past, that the dead dumb years were dead

and dumb, and that the future should atone for
the past, that for the future they would love each
other and be with each other always. But the
impulse of his pride was stronger than the impulse
of his piety. No. All this was nothing now. She
bad abandoned him as a baby, as a man he bad
no need of her. For that she had caused him to
suffer shame, be might have forgiven her, but,
that as a consequence of this act he had lost the
woman beloved , there was no forgiveness. Bereft
of her love, he had been bereft of a dearer love.
Could her tears atone for the tears of Euphrosyne?
Did Euphrosyne pine less because she, whose folly
had cast a slur on him, had pined for him too.
Did these late words of endearment efface the
memory, branded on his heart, of the words of
worldliness, spoken by the Baroness, that had put
him and his lady asunder. While she had been
stretching out ber arms for him, while she had
been blowing kisses to him, he had been roughly
dismissed from arms that were put out to him,
from lips straining to mix with his. So he said
nothing, but hardened his heart, and clenched his
teeth, and listened to her, placid, cold, andimmobile.
Mrs Dixon had looked at him earnestly while
she had been speaking of her longing for him,
and had sometimes risen to cross the room and
take him in her arms, but repelled and disheartened
by his cold face, had as often sunk
back into her chair to plead her cause the more
pitifully, trying to move him, trying to touch his
heart. When, exhausted by the emotion of her

sorrowful remembrances, lie lead paused, her face
seemed to express that she felt that she could say
nothing more, that she had done her best to win
him back, and that, if the recital of the miseries
of her life deprived of him could not do this, that
nothing would, and that, lost to her so long, he was,
now that she had found him, more than ever lost
to her. Her look of hopeless despair, her sigh,
that seemed the breaking of her heart, the feeble
motions of her hands, the tremulous quiver of her
wincing frame, her drooping eyes, the palsied nodding
of her royal head, the pain wrung perspiration
oozed out on to her forehead, the smile of
welcome and the anticipating kiss-pouting, fading
from her blanched lips, as she recognized that her
pleading had been in vain, that her recited agony
had not interested him as much as the mimic
suffering of an actress interests her audience,
should have moved sterner hearts than his. No ;
immobile, pitiless, he stood, seeing not his mother,
but the love-lorn face of the woman whom he had
loved and lost, as he had seen it for the last time
one dawning night in a white olive grove near the
Middle Sea. He had lost Euphrosyne, he had lost
Euphrosyne, the tears of strange women were of
little import to him.

It was too much. Mrs. Dixon, who had till now
borne up against her sorrow with great fortitude,
rose, feebly put out her arms to him, and then fell
back, fainting, into Herbert's arms.

Look, what you have done ! " cried Herbert.

'^ Look, what she has done ! " said Charles.

Mrs. Dixon's weakness did not last long. As
soon as she recovered consciousness she started to
her feet, and cried —

'^ Now listen to the rest of mj story. It was not
all my fault. It is Who have been punished; it
is I, who have been rebuffed ; it is I, who have
suffered injustice.

^' Listen, all of sou, and you, son of mine, who
have refused to comfort me ; listen to me, and
judge whether I or your father caused that you
have suffered.

'when I spoke those angry words Lord Brookshire
started, paused seemed to reflect, smiled as
if a happy thought had struck him, and finally
said —

' Ha ! what do you mean by that ? '

* No,^ I said ; ' no, Charles, I am not blind. I
know my position here. Do not think that I am
deceived.'

'^ ' Are you mad, Dora ? Are you not known
as Lady Brookshire? Is not your son Lord
Hauberk?'

'''^Aye/ cried I, bitterly, for I hardly heeded
what I said , so blinded was I with injured pride,
suspicion, anxiety, and fear — ' aye, to the servants

and the villagers ; but to whom beyond the limits
of our home? Is it not to discard me some day,
when yon shrill have become sated with me that
yon have never taken me to London ; that you
married me in a way that was no marriage ; that
all this time I have never been allowed to mix
in society ; that no one of your class knows of my
existence ; that my name and that of my son is
ignored and omitted from the list of peers ? '

'^ He answered nothing for some time. I could
read what was passing in his mind ; and terrible
it was to me to see that I had suggested to him
the means he had so long sought for of getting
rid of me — that he saw, by confirming my suspicions,
of which he had previously never dreamt,
he could drive me from his house. He seemed
to be congratulating himself on this wonderful
piece of good fortune. Here was the excuse ;
here was the lie ready-made, invented for him
by me, by which he could free himself from me
and my son, who stood between him and the
Lady Jocelyn. I saw him glance at some family
portraits that hung on the wall, as who should
say — 'show often have I reproached myself for
sullying the noble name of my ancestors, by
marrying a common music-hall singers All this
I read as clearly as I read an open book. Suddenly
he turned to me, and said half-apologetically,
half jokingly —

"well, Dora, what more could you expect?
You surely never thought that coronets were given
away so easily, did you ? You could never imagine

that 1, Earl of Brookshire, could really marry
you?'

Fool, fool that I had been ! The regret that
has harassed me all my after years came upon me
then. Yes, I had betrayed myself, and he had
taken advantage of me. It was too late now, for I
had placed the weapon in his hands. Now I began
passionately to show the impossibility of what I
myself had stated to be fact.

' And our marriage in Scotland ? ' I cried.

'* ' Was a mere farce,' he answered ; and from
his tone I saw that he knew that he was lying. But
it was my folly that had dictated the lie ; I fought
on, sick at heart.

' And our living together here as man and
wife?'

'As you very wisely remarked just now,' said
he, gaining confidence, and using his advantage to
the full — ' we only act that charming role before
the servants and a few dolts of villagers.'

'^ ' And our son Charles ? '

'' ' Not our son — your son — Master Charles
Amoretta; that was your name, was it not? '

'' Three words ! Three words ! Three little
words !

' And do you mean what you say ? '

i( i Why,' cried he, ' I am only repeating your
own words — confirming what you said.'

' What I said ? ' I exclaimed ; ' do you think I
ever believed, that I ever could believe, that you
could be guilty of such vile treachery ? '

' Gad, did you not just accuse me of it? '

' Yes, in jest.'

' A curious jest.'

'* ' Yes, Charles,' said, tenderly and pleadingly,
'say it was only a jest. I was foolish, 1 know •
but this dreadful thought has occupied me a longtime.
Why did I never accompany you to London?
Why do none of your friends, none of your
relations, ever come to stay here ? Why do not my
name and that of Charles, my son, appear in this
peerage? '

'•^Eead the title! 'he said.

*" Burke's Peerage

'' *" Aye ; but you overlook the words Corrected
by the Nobility.'

'angry even to madness with my folly in suo
getting these lies to him, angry to madness with
him for taking so cruel an advantage, I cried —

' Ha ! Then it is you who are the cause of this ?
It is you who disown us ? '

He shrugged his shoulders and said —

"you are the strangest woman I ever met.
Did you not, just a minute or two ago, tell me that
you knew all this, that you knew your position, the
position of your son ? '

I saw that it was no use being violent, and,
with a feeling almost akin to despair, I tried to win
him back by tenderness.

'' ' Charles, do not be so cruel,' I said. ' I spoke
foolishly, I know. One sometimes has a strange
wanton pleasure in wilfully supposing one's self
yietim to horrible things ; and, I suppose, I spoke

VOL. III. K

from this feeling. Of course I do not, I cannot,
believe it. I cannot believe that you could live
with, me so long, and in the end tell me that I am
not your wife, and that my son is not your son.
Forgive me my folly. I will never give way to my
idle fancies again. I will never reproach you anymore.
'No, you love me too well to discard me, do
you not? And r know you are proud of our son.
How silly we have been.'

'^ He looked at me a moment with some of his
old tenderness. Then his face grew stern again.
No; he could not let me go back and undo all I
had done for him.

'^ ' I am sorry to say, Miss Amoretta, that your
suspicions have been only too well founded. I will
not attempt to palliate my conduct. I can only
plead the evil school in which I was trained. I
had intended to tell you of the cruel wrong I have
done you, this very day. Circumstances have
arisen, which render it impossible for us to go on
living together. I am very glad to find you so
well prepared for my statement. It saves me an
enormous amount of trouble, and, I may add,
pain.'

* For God's sake, Charles,' I cried, throwing
myself on my knees before him — ' stop this jesting.
I have realised the awf fulness of the position which,
like a foolish, spoilt girl, I arrogated to myself. I
promise you faithfully never to accuse you again.
Stop, I beseech you ; you have punished me
enough ! '

* You do not seem to understand, Dora,' said

lie coldly, ' that I am not jesting ; that the terrible
words sou spoke in silly accusation of me were not
mere idle reproaches, but true, awfully true. I
will make what reparation I can. I will settle an
income on you and on your son, so that you will be
able to live in quiet comfort. I will allow you to
take away with you whichever of the horses, furniture,
pictures (excepting, of course, the family
portraits, which cannot possibly interest you), or
plate you may care to take. My only condition is
that you at once abandon the name you have been
accustomed to bear, and that you ' —

"furniture! Horses! Plate !' I cried, starting,
in furious passion and maddened pride, to my
feet. ' An income for myself ! Abandon my name
brand myself and my son for the sake of furniture,
horses, plate ! No, my lord; I will live and
die the Countess of Brookshire ! '

* In an asylum or refuges he uttered, menacingly.


' What do you mean ? '

' That if, in spite of my disowning you, you
still persist in proclaiming 3-ourself my wife, you
will be treated as insane ; and that if you refuse
my conditions, I will cast you back into the poverty
whence 1 took you ! '

These are the last words I ever heard him
speak. I hardly know what I did, as soon as he
had uttered this threat and had shown me that indeed
all was over, I believe I walked up to him,
raised my hand as if to menace him, that then I
burst out laughing, and then rushed from the room.

determined never to see him again. I resolved to
leave his house that instant, and to take my sister
with me. The boy — I would leave him. I hardly
know now what were my motives in doing what I
have since so bitterly regretted — perhaps in my
rage I turned for a moment against his offspring.

In a few hours I had left Appledean Manor,
and, with Esther by my side, was once more facing
the world, but with no heart this time,

"As my confinement was approaching, I was
obliged to settle down somewhere for a short time,
and chose Richmond as the place. There Herbert
was born. The rest of my history is soon told. I
took my little sister and my baby over to America,
and went back to my first profession in New York,
under my maiden name of Lovell, the name which
I also gave to Herbert. After singing in public
for some time, I received the attentions of Mr.
Dixon, a man of mature age and great wealth,
who after a short time married me. The brewer
behaved better than the earl. I never heard anything
more of Lord Brookshire, except when I
read of his death. When my husband died I
determined to come back to Europe. I wrote to
Herbert, who was staying at Sorrento. He wrote
to me, telling me that he had a friend with him,
called Charles Hauberk. I little dreamt it was
the son I had lost, but fancied it to be the son of
Lord Brookshire by the Lady Jocelyn, not that T
knew whether Lord Brookshire had ever taken the
Lady Jocelyn to wife. I therefore wrote, telling
my son to renounce the company of this friend.

who bore the name that mj son should have borne.
Herbert afterwards wrote to me, saying that
Charles Hanbei-k had left him, and I at once proceeded
to Sorrento. At first I forbade Herbert
to mention the name of his friend ; but gradually
I began to find out who this young man was ; then
you, Mr. Bennett, wrote about this affair, and the
possibility of removing the disgrace that rested
on my children, and that my son was found ; and
at once I came here. That is all I have to says

SHALL MOST Certainly Prosecute MY CLAIM.

As I have already told you, madam," said Mr.
Bennett, " in our previous interview, Lord Brookshire
bitterly repented his conduct to you, and he
did his best to find you. After searching for you
in vain, he became morose and miserable and then
first determined on putting his son out of the
house. He told me then that you had been his
mistress, and that the boy was only an illegitimate
child, and asked me to arrange for its removal
from his house. I believed his story, and, in
answer to an advertisement, placed Charles with
a Mr. John Elphinstone, and gave him at the
same time a cheque for £6,000, to be used on the
child's behalf. So you see that from a worldly
point of view Lord Brookshire did not act badly,
for how many noblemen altogether abandon their
natural children. I believe that he did this with

the intention of marrying Lady , but the

marriage never took place. I could not understand
why it was never consummated, until shortly
before my lord died, when he confessed to me that
he had strong suspicions that his marriage with
Miss Amoretta was a real marriage, and that his
son was his son and heir. He bade me clear up
the matter for you, and, if possible, do justice to
you. I entreated him to make a will, but my

entreaties came too late ; lie died intestate,
nothing was known of the marriage, the earldom
became extinct, and all his property', together
with his second title, passed to his cousin, Philip
Hauberk, Who now enjoys them."

"And did you," cried Charles, "do nothing?
Had you no voice ? Did you put in no claim forme
y "

Certainly, I did my best. Look how I was
placed. Your mother had disappeared. You had
been placed as an orphan, Charles Benson, with a
stranger. Nobody except myself knew of your
paternity. The marriage was contracted in Scotland
— I did not know where. I did not know
before what witnesses. Your father had left no
will. It seemed desperate. I had no evidence
whatever to support any claim I could have made.
I was the only person living who knew that you
were your father's lawful son, and, by a singular
accident, I was rendered unable to do anything
for you. Within four days of my lord's death, I
met with an accident which might have killed me.
I was driving from the Manor to the Brookshire
Arms, when I was thrown out of the trap), and
nearly killed. I escaped with a violent fever,
which affected my memory and even my intellect
for many years. Mean while, of course. Lord Hauberk
was in possession, and you were growing upas
Charles Benson. I had absolutely forgotten
all about you and your father ; in fact, all the life
I had lived before my accident and illness seemed
to me a blank. It was not till I saw your face at

the Oxford railway-station that I began to
remember anything about you. When I saw you
then — you were wrangling with some insolent
fellow or other — I seemed to know your face, but
who you were I could not recollect. I saw you
again at Bletchley, and became more than ever
impressed that I had had something to do with
you some time. By the time I had reached London,
I was certain of it.^'

Mr. Bennett then went on to tell them how all
the matter had gradually come back to him, and
how he had at once set about to fulfil his promise
to the dead man, how he had found the place
where the questioned marriage had taken place,
and the witnesses present thereat, who were still
alive and had made formal and legal affidavits as
to its legality; how he had consulted the most
eminent Scotch counsel as to the validity of such
a marriage, and how they had given a decisive
opinion as to its absolute legality and validity ;
how he had managed to hunt up two servants,
who had lived at the Manor when Lady Brookshire
came there first, who had always known her
as the Countess of Brook shire, and finally, how
chance had enabled him to bring the whole family
together.

'with proofs like these," he concluded, "we
shall have little difficulty in setting all straight,
and soon, my dear Charles, I shall not be the only
one to congratulate you on your honours."

Faugh," said Charles, " I am no legal scholar
my self , but I do see that even with such proofs as

you have, my claim will never be allowed. It is
impossible.'^

Why ? "

Because answered Charles, with an any
look at his mother, '*' because my mother has
proved beyond doubt that she knew the marriage
to be a fictitious one. No jury would believe your
story in face of such evidence as hers.^'

"How?"

*' S fie married again whilst Lord Brookshire was
alive. That will prove that she was absolutely
certain that she was not his wife. What jury
would, in face of that, give me my rights ? ^'

Yes,'^ said Mr. Bennett, " that is an awkward
point, a very awkward point. So I said when I
first saw your mother again. Still, in face of such
evidence, I do not think there is any chance of
failure. It will certainly be very unpleasant to
you, madam."

'' ^Ylly ? '' said Mrs. Dixon.

Because, madam, if you want to prove yourself
Countess of Brookshire, and your sons Hauberks,
you will have to prove your marriage with
Mr. Dixon was no marriage, or at least one carried
out by mistakes'

What' cried Mrs. Dixon, " must I prove that
I deceived my husband ? "

Not your husband. Not your husband," cried
Charles.

That I deceived the best man that ever lived,
the man who for so many years treated me with
so much love and tenderness and kindness. Shall

I, for the sake of a title which will prove me to bethe
wife of one whom I despise, bring shame on
the memory of the dead ? "

Of course not," cried Herbert ; " that would
be too bad. Poor old step-father, he would roll in
his grave. I would far rather not be an Honourable
Herbert Hauberk. Ha , ha! How funny!
The Honourable Herbert Hauberk, indeed.
Wouldn't they laugh at me in Kew York."

Charles looked with intense irritation at his
mother and Herbert ; and, turning to Mr. Bennett,
said —

^' You will put this matter into the hands of a
solicitor, of course. The sooner the better. Lord
Hauberk must be acquainted with my claim without
delay."

'' Oh, Charles," cried Herbert, springing to his
feet, "pause and reflect. Remember our mother."

You have heard me," said Charles. " Justice
shall be done. 1 have no dear step-father whose
memory I need so cherish as to waive my claim.
It is all very well for you to talk about being contented
with your position. You have had an easy
life, and no shame gnawing your heart. I daresay
you would prefer remaining as you are. I will
not. I have a stain on me which I will wipe out."

But think, Charles, what shame it will bring
on our mothers'

I can't help that," said Charles, impatiently,
and I don't see where the shame lies. She
married again under a mistake. She is the Countess
of Brookshire ; how can she be Mrs. Dixon ?

Whatever inclinations she may have for this Mr.
Dixon, however much she may prefer bim to the
Earl of Brookshire, she must do justice, justice
to herself, to her children , and to the relations of
this Mr. Dixon'

What do you say ? " asked Mr. Bennett, turnings
to Mrs. Dixon.

'' I don't know what to say," said that lady. ^' I
see now how very foolish I acted in running away ;
and though I shall never regret it, that I ought
not in justice to myself and to my children, to
have married " —

Do not, I beg of you," cried Charles, '^ talk
about having married this man. You have heard
from Mr. Bennett that you were truly and legally
married to Lord Brooksbire. While he lived,
therefore, you could not legally marry again. You
must see that ; it is very unfortunate, and will be
very unpleasant, I do not doubt ; but surely your
own pride, the lavish love you professedly entertain
for me, will tell you that you must renounce
as a husband this American."

Mrs. Dixon sat in great agitation and evident
perplexity. She did not know what to say. She
felt that the peace and the quiet that she had so
long yearned for were never to be hers. She
shuddered to think that all her life, with its
strange vagaries and adventures, would have to
be exposed to the full light of the day. She knew
very well what the world would say of her ; that
respectability would and could never be hers ; that
even after all had been explained, after it had been

clearly shown her that she was not to blame, but
rather to be pitied, what she had done would bean
everlasting stain on her. When she had fled
from England she had left, as she thought, all
disgrace behind her. TVith a new name, in a
new country, she had found fresh happiness, and
that respectability and social standing which all
women, even those who in their girlhood have been
the wildest and most romantically inclined, yearn
after as they grow older. These she now possessed.
Her marriage with the wealthy American
citizen had cancelled her life of shame with the
English roue; his death had left her possessed of
wealth. A quiet luxurious life now lay before
her ; she might be happy, and, above all, respected.
She did not wish to prove herself the Countess of
Brookshire, since by doing so she would have to
prove that her marriage with the man she had so
loved, was no marriage, that the dead had been
deceived. She did not wish her past life to be
raked np, her girlish foolishness to be exposed, the
terrible misfortune of her life to be commented
upon. The chance of gaining the worldly distinction
of a title which she did not covet, and
which only wakened in her painful memories of
the past, was not, in her mind, at all to be weighed
against the inevitable exposure and scandal that
a public trial would entail, for were she even successful
she would, it is true, be proved to have
been the lawful wife of the Earl of Brookshire,
but also to have been the unlawful bedfellow of
the American brewer ; while, if she were unsuccessful,

she would have to bear all the shame of
her rapport with the Earl, and shame her real
husband's memory, a memory which she dearly
cherished.

In a few words she put this to her sons.

Herbert's answer was short; he said —

Dear mother, I will not in any way disturb
your quiet. I am quite contented. I don't want
any title. I see what such a claim would entail
on you. Were it to gain a kingdom I would not
advance my claim. Be quite easy, dear mother."

But not so Charles. He saw no reason for keeping
quiet when honour, absolution from disgrace,
wealth, position, and, above all, the hand of Euphrosyne
was offered to him. He owed no debt of consideration
to the widow of the late Surat brewer,
no tribute to the memory of the deceased. It was
all very well for Herbert to be generous and magnanimous.
Herbert was well off, his birth was
untarnished, and, from a worldly point of view,
had ver' little to gain by claiming his birthright ;
he was a younger brother, and beyond gaining the
prefix of " honourable," had nothing to look for.
The lady, who sat weeping in the chair, had no
doubt a very sensitive nature, very tender feelings,
which would be wounded by his action in claiming
his name and his inheritance. That was very
probable, only her grief would arise from a damaged
self-interest. He had his own interests to look
after. His interests were of the greatest importance
to himself, and could he possibly, or in
reason, be expected to make them secondary to

those of strangers ? Strangers ? Yes, strangers 1
But that lady with, the imploring look was his
mother ; that young man, looking with pleasant
anticipation for a generous answer on his part,
was his brother. Since when? Since an hour or
two ! That did not make them other than strangers.
It was utterly absurd to expect him to give up the
choicest guerdons of life to suit them. Would,
could a few sentimental phrases, a few stereotyped
sentences of thanks, a few hugs from yonder rather
passed lady, or an unpleasantly warm shake of the
rather large and not very aristocratically-formed
hand, of that rather plebeian-looking young manor
a vague feeling of having acted well and nobly,
counterbalance the loss of his title, of his absolution
from the stain of bastardy, of wealth, of the
power of benefiting others (0 subtle embolism !),
of the lady who might become his wife P Certainly
not.

In one minute his resolution was formed.
Slightly shrugging his shoulders, avoiding the
glances of his mother and of Herbert, he turned
to Mr. Bennett, and said in a husky, ashamed
tone —

"Mr. Bennett, you will kindly put me into communication
with a solicitor. I shall most certainly
prosecute my claim. Lord Hauberk must be
written to at once.^'

Mrs. Dixon rose and, without one word, left the
room.

THE DECISION IS POSTPONED.

** Oh, Charles," cried Herbert, " I would never
have thought it of you. Is your mother's name,
are your mother's feelings worth nothing to you ?
Tou do not, cannot, mean it,"

Charles lit a cigarette and said nothing:. He
felt very uncomfortable. Herbert stood looking
at him reproachfully ; Mr. Bennett sat at the table
with his hands buried in bis hair evidently perplexed.


Charles' cigarette was smoked and he had lit
another before anyone spoke.

Herbert, seeing that Charles would not retract,
began very earnestly to plead his mother's cause.

You always professed yourself a Republican,
Charlie. You used to say that all crowns should
be hammered into gold coin to buy bread for the
people. You used to say that you despised titles,
that you only wanted to have one offered to you in
order to reject it. Come, Charlie, you must remember
when you said that if a baronetcy were
ever to be offered to you you would tell the
Government to keep their red hands off you. You
said you only coveted distinction in order to show
the world that you despised it. Now here is your
chance. You have now a much nobler motive for
refusing distinction. Surely our poor mother has

suffered enough ; lie should not suffer more. Have
pity on her ! Have pity on her ! Let her have a
happy old age ; keep disgrace and scandal from
her. Let us all live quietly and happily together,
happy, loving each other. Oh! we shall be so
happy together. Tou will be the favourite son.
My mother is so proud of you. I saw that. She
will love you very much. And I, who was so
proud of you as a friend, shall be more proud of
you as a brother. Bother titles honourables and
earls and all that nonsense. We are all Republicans,
aren't we, Charlie? We don't care for
names, do we? We want love and affection.
They are worth more than all the titles of the
world put together. You think so, don't you?
Come, brother, let us go and tell our mother that
we are not going to make any fuss about these
titles, but will be " —

'thank you, Herbert," said Charles ; '^ but you
heard me just now. I am not a fool. I don't
despise respectability. I am not going to let this
pass through my fingers. If Mrs. Dixon prefers
to remain Mrs. Dixon to becoming an English
countess I cannot help it. I know what / mean
to do."

In vain Herbert pleaded, and finally appealed to
Mr. Bennett, saying —

"Come, Mr. Bennett, you were a friend of the
family ; don't you think that this had better be
kept quiet ? Do you think that a title, &c., will'
compensate for the shame and scandal that a trial
for I presume any claim would meet with violent

THE DECISION IS POSTPONED. 145

opposition from the man in possession — would
bring upon our mother ? ^'

"Well, my dear Mr. Hauberk," began Mr.
Bennett.

Thank you Mr. Bennett," said Charles.

My dear Mr. Herbert," continued Mr. Bennett,
you see it is a very difficult matter, a very delicate
matter. Is your mother well off ? "

Very."

^' Personally, I mean ? "

Yes, I suppose so."

"How did she become possessed of this
money ? "

Oh, Mr. Dixon, you know, left her his
money."

Besides Mr. Dixon^s fortune, has she any
money of her own ? "

"No, I don't think so."

*' Had Mr. Dixon any living relations at the
time of his death ? "

Oh yes, a brother, who, I believe, was very
vexed at the way in which Mr. Dixon left his
property."

Have you any property of your own ? "

*' Mr. Dixon left me an annuity of £1,000 a year
All my mother's property will come to me at her
death."

So that this £1,000 a year is really all you
two have claim to."

I don't understand."

"It is clear enough, Herbert,'^ cried Charles.

VOL. III. L

'' I see what Mr. Bennett means. You see that
Mr. Dixon left his money to his wife'

Well P ''

And he had no wife."

'how?"

*^ Our mother was Lord Brookshire's wife when
she married him. It was no marriage. She was
not his wife. She cannot use this money. It
belongs to the brother of Mr. Dixon."

'' Ah yes , I see. Well, that does not matter. I
am sure my mother will not care. My £1,000 a year
would keep us all three."

'^ No, no," cried Charles ; '' that is all nonsense.
I must do as I said. I am sure I am right in doing
so. In justice to myself, in justice to you, injustice
to ray mother, in justice to my father, to
my ancestors, and, above all, in justice to one
whom I prize higher than all, I must vindicate
my claim. How utterly absurd," he added irritably,
" how utterly absurd it is of you, Herbert ;
I must and will do it."

Well," said Herbert, '' if you must, you must ;
but I pray you to do nothing hastily. Take a little
time ; take a week. Promise me that."

^' I think, my lord," said Mr. Bennett, '' you
might agree to that delay. This matter would in
any case require time. You can promise the week,
can you not ? "

Mrs. Dixon had re-entered the room while
Herbert was speaking, and she too pleaded Charles
to think,

I know that you will act nobly' she said. " I
feel that you will not, that you cannot be willing
to hurt your poor mother'

All ri<2:ht/' said Charles, shruoforinor ibis
shoulders, '' I will consider for a week ; but I am
certain that I shall be of the same opinion then
as now."

"Then," said Mr. Bennett, "I will come again
in a week. Shall we jpiake these rooms our rendezvous
'? "

Whose rooms are they? " said Charles.

Yours," said Mr. Bennett.

Mines cried Charles ; " I cannot afford rooms
like these''

I took them for you," said Mr. Bennett. " You
will stay here as my guest. '^

"On condition that I repay you when" —

Y"es/' said Mr. Bennett.

This agreed, Mr. Bennett departed. Mrs. Dixon
retired, and Herbert went off' to Palgrave Square
to see Esther. He had spent most of his time
there since he had been in London. Their meeting
had been a very passionate one, and Herbert
was so delighted at seeing her again, that he had
forgotten for the time all about Mr. Hiram.

As soon as Charles was left alone he sat down
and began to smoke, and so sat he smoking for
two or three hours, lost in thought.

Never for a moment did he hesitate ; his purpose
was fixed. He would claim his title.

Suddenly, as if remembering, he started up,

rang the bell, bade the waiter bring him a telegram
form, and sent off the following message to
Keswick : —

"From Chaeles Hauberk,

The Grosvenor Hotel,

"- London,
To Miss Dorothy Ceosthwaite,
Laburnum Cottage,

• " Keswick.

"Am in London. How are you ? . Am rather
more Hauberk than you thought. So there. '^

In about three hours a telegram came from
Keswick : —

"From May Kennedy,

Laburnum Cottage,
Keswick,

To Me. Chaeles Hauberk,

The Grosvenor Hotel,
London, W.
Deae Sie,
Miss Crosthwaite is very ill. Could you come
at once ? Wants to see you ; very important."

When Charles had read the telegram his first
exclamation was, "Oh, bother ! '^ Then he felt
anxious, then bored, finally indifferent. At last
he made up his mind to go to Keswick. He could
pass the week there, and being away from Herbert
and Mrs. Dixon need less fear that they should influence
his decision, or bring him to another state
of mind.

So ringing the bell again lie asked when he
could leave for Keswick, and learnt that a train
started from Euston at midnight.

'' That will suit me very well," said Charles.
*' I shall take that portmanteau with me. See
that a cab is fetched for me in time for that
train'

He occupied the time til midnight in writing
and reading, but the excitement of the day was
strong upon him and he could do little.

Late that evenings, as he was rummaging' in his
pocket for his portfolio, he happened to find the
note which had been given him that morning for
Mr. Bennett by the stranger who had accosted
him outside the hotel.

Enclosing it in another envelope he sent it to
Mr. Bennett through the post.

A few hours afterwards he was in the train on
his way to the north.

It was very early morning when Charles reached
Windermere, and very few people were stirring in
the village, over which there hung a heavy mist,
which veiled all the beautiful scenery as if nature
grudged to the few who were awake so lovely a
sight, and would only then unroll the glorious
panorama when the number of spectators should
have increased. But Charles, tired with his long
journey, enervated by the recent excitement which
the last events of his life had created in him, and
anxious as to the result of his visit, took little heed
of the surroundings, and inquired of a porter when
the first coach to Keswick started, and being informed

that lie would have to wait two hours at
least, decided on being driven there in a carriage.
Whilst this was being got ready for him he paced
up and down the platform of the station, occupied
with many and various thoughts ; and the first and
foremost of these was with what an air of triumph
be would tell Dorothy of his new position, and thus
stultify all she had said about him, and how he
would enjoy her discomfiture at hearing that he had
been right all along in calling himself Hauberk,
and how wrong she had been in advising him to be
humble. Indeed, he felt a spiteful joy in magnifying
poor little Dorothy's well-meant counsels into
taunts, in order to better enjoy the vindication of
his actions. He did not think her very ill, and to
tell the truth felt rather a martyr and like one who
has done some sacrifice for coming down all the
way from London to see her. Miss Kennedy's telegram
gave no reasonable cause for alarm, and he
never for a moment fancied that anything serious
was the matter, or else perhaps his thoughts about
the little old lady who had so befriended him and
loved him, when all others had left him, might
have been less harsh and less vindictive.

The carriage was at last ready, and Charles was
soon on his way.

TB.B END OF Tender Words AND FACES.

He did not much enjoy the beautiful drive
through the fresh and exhilarating morning air,
or the lovely scenery that he passed through, for
he was anticipating the triumph he would have
over her, and planning subtle traps and surprises
with which to commence the attack.

Little did it interest him, the languid, amorous
breasts of Windermere, the eternal embrace of
the twin Languages, the simple homes of the simple
poets, their simpler graves ; little heed did he
take of Eydalmere's murmuring monotone, or of
the louder melodies of Grasmere, kissing ever and
ever its flower-spangled shores ; of lone Helvellyn,
frowning as though jealous of the gentle Nereid
lying at its feet ; jealous of the bright-plum aged
birds that skimmed over her, of the bending trees
mirroring their beauty in her eyes and ever
wooing her with wanton whispers, jealous and
hiding in amber-coloured clouds his swart un-comely
head ; little did he heed all these things, for
poetry has not any biding-place in heads tenanted
by petty worldly thoughts, in hearts lukewarm.

He did not see, he did not recognise, the flowers
that no Coleridge had plucked, the myrtles unheeded
by Southey, the bays that Wordsworth had
forgotten. He did not see, though prouder of

the title of poet than of any earthly title, what
infinite suggestion of limitless passion, of burning
desire, of wasting amorousness, lay symbolized in
the bosom nature was baring before him. He
did not see, dim and horn-eyed as he had become
by foolish wrath, what poets the Lakes should
breed ; that the usurped title of Lake-poet could
and should be wrested from men who had never
deserved it ; that this marvellous Mitylene of
England, weary of being sung in simple tunes,
clamoured for a Sappho, called for who should
sing of her, not as a field for botanists or philosophers,
but as a Garden of Eros, a Paradise of
Houris, called for who should take his eyes from
off the ground, forget the celandine and daffodil,
and sing in music as melodious as the lapping
waves that beat with toying passion against her
warm breasts, musical as the breaths of solus
that fan her burning cheeks, of the masculine
mountains, which Dryads, not idiot boys, frequent,
of her nymphs, the lakes, restless in the granite
couches, tossing with feverish impatience on their
beds, waiting, wearied of the affectionate devotional
kiss of the sun, of the ceaseless wooing of
the rivers, for the silver-belted stars to arise and
to come and sleep all night in their bosoms, of her
fresh glens of many marvellous trees, fitter trys-
ting-place for Diana and Endymion than any
sombre pine-clad mountain of Italy, or any
parched olive-grove of Greece, of what time, Endymion
being faithless,, Diana, all beautifier

imitated Narcissus, and, for a solace, was content
to see herself, a mirrored moon, in a hundred
lakes, a hundred tarns, a hundred hundred
streams ; called for who should show her as a
virgin, as jet unmoved, from whose broad flanks
a more mystic mythology than that of ancient
Rome, or ancient Athens, could be bred ; called
expostulating with the many tongues of moaning
winds and plaintive waters, of shuddering trees
and grumbling mountains, for who should show
her waters worthy of a Hero, her glens fit haunts
for amorous Fauns and timid Dryads, her mountains
read" for the sweetness of Hymettus, the
melody of Parnassus the splendour of Olympus,
her nightingales pining for an Its, her rivers for
the fabled honours of Pactolus, her Flora for a
Zephyrus, her cattle for a Faustitas, her reeds fora
Pan ; called for a second Terpander to add to
the lyre her singers had till then so feebly
touched, the three strings of Humanity, Sex and
Passion — and appease with the melody and n^usic
of his newl}'- fashioned instrument the jarring
tumult of revolted monosyllables ; for an Alcaeus
to do battle against simple formless poetry, who
should not flee and leave, to be hung up by his
enemies in the temple of the Minerva of England,
his troubadours apparel ; for a Pittacus of melody
to do battle for her against a Phrynon of Vacuity
and despatch him with net of Ridicule.

Charles had none of these thoughts, and for any
effect that was produced on his mind and senses

by what was around him, might as well have been
driving in a four-wheeler through Bayswater.
No ; so deadened was he by the stupid purpose
and mean thought then besetting him, that, with
less soul-expansion than is felt by the dullest
artisan from Manchester, or the most banal of
tourists, he drove on, wrapped in his folly, blind
to the piteous face and deaf to the plaintive voice
of poor Lakeland, chained with the adamantine
chains of Precedent and Prejudice to the Rock of
Horn-eyed Blindness and clamouring for another
Perseus to free her ; drove on, leaving poor
Andromeda to continue her plaint ; drove on, I say,
blind, deaf, and doited till he reached Keswick,
which, with its smell of cedarwood and graphite
him up at last.

Laburnum Cottage lay a little way out of Keswick,
close to the shore of Derwentwater, and
thither he directed the driver.

That is Laburnum Cottages' said the driver,
pointing to a little house that stood surrounded by
trees on the margin of the lake.

"Yerywell," said Charles, "stop here, please.
You need not drive up to the house ; the lady is ill,
and the carriage might disturb her."

He paid the driver, and walked rapidly to the
house. As he passed through the gate and walked
up the gravel walk that led to the entrance, all his
plans for snubbing Dorothy vanished, for the
place brought back to his mind memories of the
happy two months he had spent here ; how kind

the little old lady had been to him ; how now
she was ill, in pain perhaps ; how he had loved
her then, and how she had been always kind and
gentle to him all the long time of trial and suffering
he had undergone.

Glancing up at the windows of Dorothy's bedroom,
he saw that the blinds were down, for the
early sun was shining brightly. The house was
ominously quiet. As he walked up to the door and
marked the muffled knocker and the straw strewn
in front of the house, he thought of the many
times he had run in boisterously, calling to
Dorothy to come out on the lake, or to listen to
his latest poem or to come a walk with him, and
of how ready she had always been to break her
afternoon nap, or to put away her work, or her
book, to do the pleasure of her " dear boy." Ashe
thought of this, he wondered why he had never
found this stranger in this selfish world, that one
who was so different to him in every way should
have shown so very large sympathy with him ; was
it conceit, self-sufficiency, or indifference that
made these sacrifices on the part of this old lady
seem to him so much a matter of course ?

He knocked gently at the door, and for sometime
his knock was left unanswered. He did not
like to knock again too soon, for he feared to disturb
the patient, and presently the door was
opened. The face of the servant was new to him,
and he noticed that her eyes were red, as if from
crying.

Can I see Miss Crosthwaite ? " he asked.

'^ I don't know, sir," answered the servant,
"What name, sir?'^

The Earl of — Charles Benson, I mean' said
Charles.

No, he would be Charles Benson here. That
was Dorothy's name for him, and no pride of his
should contradict Dorothy now.

Oh, it's Mr. Benson," said the servant 5 " come
in, sir. She has been talking of you, sir, almost
all night."

Charles entered.

'*■ Is she very bad ? " he asked, pausing at the
foot of the stairs.

'' Oh, dear me, sir, yes. Oh it's terrible, sir.
She's that weak, sir, she can't eat nothing, she
can't sleep. Its fairly heart-rending to see her
going under like that."

Going under ? " said Charles, " What do you
mean ? "

Dying, sir ! "

Dying ? Dorothy dying ? Dying ? "

Aye, sir, doctor says it's about over wi' her."

Charles caught at the balustrade. He could
hardly believe her words, Dorothy dying. The
little old lady dying, before ever he had really felt
grateful to her for her marvellous, infinite kindness
to him ; before he had ever really thanked
her, before he had proved to her by many deeds of
love and by a new life that he was not indifferent
to her and to her advice, before he had shown her
that he looked on her as his dear friend, and not.

as it must have seemed to her, as a mere convenience.
Dorothy dying ?

Then there rushed over his mind, with a bitterness
of remorse that seemed to lacerate his heart,
the remembrance of the many cruel thoughts he
had harboured of her, of the many petty grudges
he had borne her, of the many unkind letters he
had written to her in moments of irritation and
petulancy, things which now nothing could undo
or unsay. Dorothy dying ? Dorothy dying ?

For two or three minutes he stood thus, vexed
with many bitter self-reproaches and feelings of
the wildest remorse, pale, trembling, and clinging
as if for support to the balustrade of the stairs.
Then there came a great yearning, a mighty impulse
to him, to rush upstairs and throw himself
on his knees before her he had so sinned against,
and pray for her pardon.

Is she in her old bedroom ? " he cried at last
to the servant, who was standing wiping her eyes
in the hall.

Yes sir, but I think she is asleep. At least
nurse told me so. She got off to sleep this morning
about eight o'clock, and may be she's asleep
now. You wouldn't disturb her, would you, sir?
She wants a bit of rest, poor thing."

Charles crept upstairs, and, gently pushing open
the door, walked into Dorothy ^s bedroom. Death ^s
bony heel crushes all the weeds of conventionality,
and in the presence of death life throws off its
fig-leaves, and suffering makes all living things
equal and undistinguished.

The room was very dark, and, though it was
broad and sunny daylight without, a little night-light,
which, like the frail human life it was
serving, was flickering in a dying flame, made this
darkness only more apparent. Charles, who had
had the sun in his eyes so long, was at first unable
to distinguish any of the objects in the room, but
stood on its threshold with night in his eyes, cold
night in his heart.

Overcome by the strong feelings that were
agitating him, he forgot what he was doing, and
cried half impatiently, half pitying and pitifully —

Dorothy, where are you ? "

Hush ! '^ said a voice ; and the nurse who had
attended Dorothy throughout her illness arose,
and, coming towards him, repeated her admonition
to silence.

Is she asleep? " said Charles, in a whisper.

Tes ; be very still, she has not closed her eyes
all night. She has been fretting herself about
someone who has not been kind to her. Shame
on him, whoever he be, to cause her trouble
now''

Charles said nothing, but sank into a chair and
covered his face with his hands.

The nurse, curious to see who the new comer
might be, gently opened one of the shutters and let
in a subdued light.

Charles looked up. He found himself sitting at
the foot of the bed, facing the sleeper, upon whom
his eyes at once turned.

"Is that Dorothy ? " he cried in a horror-stricken

whisper, and with a short laugh, which
had more bitterness in it, and expressed more
grief than manifold lamentations — '*' Is that
Dorothy? No, no, no."

Then his feelings overcame him, and he began
to sob so violently that the nurse had to remonstrate
with him once more.

Truly, it was a piteous sight. The little form,
the slight body, was now so shrunken, that but
for the hand and head that appeared above the
bed-clothes, one might have supposed that the
bed was not occupied, so little indication did
the heavy draperies give of anything beneath
them. Then the head and face, — how awful,
and yet how cruelly grotesque ! 1 he head was
shorn of all its hair, and covered with a nightcap
that seemed much too large, and gave one
the idea that the wearers head too had shrunk
with pain. That Dorothy ! Oh, death, doubly
cruel to invest with grotesqueness thy victims.
Is the Sardinian laugh so pleasant to thy fleshless
ear ?

Dorothy never had those wrinkles, and that
yellow, parched, cracking skin, those cheeks so
sunken that the worm seemed to have already begun
its ravages and stripped the skull of its fair panoply.
Were those the lips that had so often smiled on
him, the dear lips that had so often called him by
pleasant names, the dear, kind, good lips that had
so often been pressed to his forehead, in a love
more lovely than a mother's love ; those Dorothy's
lips, those fleshless strips of wrinkled skin, that

seem to cling about the teeth like goldbeater's
skin to an open wound? Ah, but if she can never
again smile on man with her lips, her dear, dear,
blue eyes will yet tell their tale of love. Oh
horrible ! The eyes seemed to have rotted away ;
and the eyelids, glued together and caving in,
seemed to hang over an empty void.

Charles gazed at her with a curiosity that to
him seemed the sin that is unpardonable, with a
horrible fascination, with a wild wish to burst
into shouts of hysterical laughter.

That Dorothy. Oh no ! no ! no !

You mustn't take on like that sir," said the
nurse. " You haven't seen many sick folk, I warrant.
Bless you, she'll be all right by and bye.
Don't disturb her, there's a good gentleman, but
let her sleep on till doctor comes. He'll be gaily
pleased to see her asleep."

For two hours Charles sat where he was, and
those two hours seemed to him the most miserable
a man, this side of eternal punishment, could pass.
He had seen dying people, it is true; he had seen
death in many forms, from the child that drops-off
in its mother's arms, to the old man that reaches
home ; he had seen Death placid. Death horrible.
Death awful, but never had he seen before Death
so cruelly grotesque. He had, it is true, seen
Death making ghastly merriment over his cruel
work ; and once, he well remembered, he had seen
in the Morgue at Paris the form of an old man.

Tvlio had thrown himself, after spending the proceeds
of a hateful and violent robbery in a wild
debauch, into the Seine, whose ruddy cheeks and
spreading grin of mirth seemed to speak of some
honest workman smiling in the fulness of some
pleasant dream, as he lay asleep, instead of the
eternal nightmare of a cruel robber, an abandoned
profligate, a heartless murderer, rotting unclaimed,
unheeded, unknown, in the charnel-house of Crime
and Folly.

But that illness and approaching death should,
could, have wrought so fearful a change in the
pleasant face and comely figure of a God-fearing
little woman ; that nature should have been permitted
by the most High God so to distort, and
ravage and insult her form and to render it so
terribly and fantastically a subject for laughter,
seemed to him so impossible, so dreadful, that all
the time he sat there, he kept repeating to himself—


No, no, no ; that is not Dorothy, that is not
Dorothy."

Why of course it is not Dorothy^s^s. Dorothy^s^s
hand never could have come to be like that, those
thin, bony fingers, curled and twisted like snakes
in agony, or like the fingers of a man dead of
delirium, clutching feverishly the counterpane,
which seem to ooze out between them in woolly
folds beneath their intense pressure, those were
never Dorothy's fingers that she had so often
passed through his hair fondly and lovingly when

VOL. III. M

he had done or said aught to please her. Then
Dorothy's arm was not a jaundiced skin wrapped
tightly round a starting hone. He knew that.
Had not that arm a hundred times been thrown
round his neck ? It was never like that. This
was a weird dream, one of those terribly vivid
dreams, where the sleeper seems to know that he
is dreaming, and yet believes what he sees.

But surely no dream was ever so well furnished,
or put on its phantasmagoric stage with all its
details so painfully exact. The sickly odour of
the chamber, the faint perfume of decaying
flowers, which had been left as tributes by the
friends of the sleeper, had cheered her for a
minute, then had been put away and forgotten
and had died and not been removed, the vapid
aroma of the food of the sick, the vacant smell of
boiled milk and arrowroot, the perfume of wine
from yonder bottles of wine, which can give no
strength now, the oppressive effluvia of medicines,
of opiates, the garnered stuffiness of air breathed
many times by burning lungs. Truly, for a dream,
all the odours of a sick chamber were too correctly
imagined.

The sights — yonder bed, with its soiled linen,
its untidy curtains, yonder face, head, hand.
Yonder attendant, how vivid a dream to show the
red eyes, the pale face, the weary, weary look, the
anxious glances, so vividly and realistically. The
twilight of the room, the corpuscle of a life.
Yonder prayer-book open at the service of the last
sacrament for the sick, the Bible which speaks inlarge

type of the Resurrection. Verily the dream
is well-equipped.

The sounds : The low ticking of the clock, the
suppressed sighs of the nurse, the rustling of the
bed as the patient shifts uneasily in her sleep,
the harsh, rasping cough that breaks from her
now and then, the silence audible at times, the
echoes of the busy world without.

Touch, the tears that drop on the dreamers
hand, the cold clamminess of the dreamer's brow,
the agony that seems to hold him locked in a
stifling grasp and crush the life out of him, like
some foul instrument of torture, the tongue that
clings parched to the dry palate of his mouth.

In all the details of sensibility the dream is too
correct. It is no dream. That is Dorothy. This
is her death room, and remorse comes too late.
Death lords it here.

Charles dismissed all his subtle self-deceiving,
and save the worst and faced it, but with less
courage than he would have faced all the horrors
of a Gehenna.

Nurse's
Yes, miss."
"A drink''
Is she awake ? "
"Yes, hush. There, miss."
'^ Thank you."

Do you feel better, miss ? You have slept a
bit."

Have I been asleep ? I thought I had
fainted'
'* bh dear me, I thought yon were resting."

I don't feel rested. A drink."

There, miss."

Nurse, 1 must speak to her."

No, no, sir, keep quiet please. You must not
startle her."

Can I do anything for you, miss ? "

Yes, prop me up a little. My back is very
tired with lying down. I want to sit up a little.
Another pillow. Oh, thank you."

The nurse arranged the pillows and Dorothy sat
up. She was looking straight at Charles, and
their eyes met. His heart went well nigh to
break, when he saw that she did not recognize
Jim. Then, thinking that that was because he
was sitting with his back to the light, he rose. -

*< Who is that, nurse?"

I don't know — a visitor ; he has been here
some time."

A visitor ? "

"Yes, he made a good deal of noise, but he
didn't wake you."

Nurse, read me that letter I asked you to read
to me yesterday."

'' No, no, miss , it'll only trouble you. It made
you cry yesterday. No, let's have something
cheerful. No more dumps, Miss Crosthwaite, you
are getting well again."

No, nurse, I want to hear it. It's one of the
last my boy wrote to me. Read it."

Yes, I will, oil, I wish I had the writer here."

Charles, who when Miss Crosthwaite had noticed,
his presence in the room, had advanced gentle towards
the bed, to take her by her hand and, on his
knees, beg her pardon, had, when the letter was
mentioned, drawn back, and now leant with burn .
incr cheeks against the wall.

"i thought you more than a friend, but I find you
entertain the same j^rejitdices as the rest of the world,

. . . I do not think bijou mean it, hut I look
on your letter as an insult.''^

Poor boy. Ah, the world is cruel, but then
his Dorothy never meant to be cruel to him, and
what she said she said not as an insult, but because
she knew that it would be better for him not to
be proud. Go on, nurse."

No, miss, I really cannot. It's not fit to read
to you. Whatever did you keep this here letter
for ? I would sent it back sharp to that Orberk,
and something for himself and all."

Ah, Hauberk, Hauberk. He little knew, poor
boy, how I longed to call him by that name. What
memories that name awoke, but it was better,
better, better."

Charles could stand it no longer. He stepped
up to the bed, and seizing Dorothy's hand bent
over it ; and falling on his knees by the bedside,
covered her hand with kisses and hot tears, and
knelt there, not speaking for the passionate grief
that shook him.

When he found utterance, he poured forth a
torrent of words of love, grief and remorse.

Dorothy, Dorothy, why did you ever keep that
letter, why do you read it now? I never, never
meant to hurt you ; I tried to get it back — I did
not know you were ill. Why did not you let me
know ? I would have watched with you always —
I would have shown you, what I cannot now, how
dearly, dearly I love you. Oh, do not think me
ungrateful — I have been a foolish, headstrong boy,
I thought you were well and strong. If I had
thought you were poorly and ill T would never
have been harsh to you. I was a proud fool.
Dorothy, dear, dear, kind Dorothy, why did you
not let me know you were ill ? Oh, don't think,
because I never wrote to you that I had forgotten
you — no, Dorothy, I have always thought of you,
and always loved you ; and if I have been a cause
of pain to you, I would willingly die now to help
you. Oh it is terrible to find you so ill, it is
terrible, terrible. But you will get well again,
Dorothy, and" —

I told you so, sir, you've startled her and now
she's fainted. So you are Orbuck; I wish you
was my boy, Td teach you manners."

Dorothy, dear Dorothy, speak to me. Tell me
you forgive me."

"Ease my hand, Charlie ; there, place it on
your head. Your Dorothy is very weak now."

'^ Tell me you forgive me, oh, tell me that you
forgive me. I am on my knees, Dorothy."

'•' Not on your knees to me, dear boy, not to me.

I am only a poor, weak, sinful little woman, going
home, home, ah, home to mj dear old father, and
to my brothers. Silly boy, do not cry ; why forgive
you ? You never offended me. Tut, child ! You
didn't write, but I could not expect it and I did
not expect it. You were in the world, and courted
by it. You are young, clever, full of genius, and
why, I should have been foolish to expect you
to be always thinking of me. I have always loved
you, dear."

How could you, when I was such a brute ? "

Oh, I loved you ; I loved you for yourself, for
jour handsome face, your wit , your poetry, and for
-your bright soul; and then — there is another
reason — you won't laugh, will you ? "

Dorothy ! "

"Well, it's a silly thing, and might sound funny
from a plain, insignificant old maid like me, but
the plain old maid was young once, and the young
think of love and like to be loved, and think of
marriage and husbands. Little Dorothy was very
plain, very insignificant, and nobody noticed her.
I felt rather hurt, for I was my father's eldest
daughter, and, for my dear mother died when I
was very young, mistress of my father's house, and
so I thought myself rather important, and did not
like to be overlooked. Then, other girls round
got lovers, plain, simple Dorothy got none ; other
girls got husbands and happy homes, Dorothy was
fast becoming an old maid. The few gentlemen
who came to my father's house took no notice of
me, hardly spoke to me, and I felt all that very

much. One daj a gentleman called, a fine, noble,
handsome man, splendidly dressed. Charles, mj
boy, that man was a nobleman, he was the Earl of
Brookshire. He was very kind to me and spoke tome,
went a walk with me, and asked me many
things, and was so handsome and kind to me that,
that — I felt how much I should have liked to be
his wife ; that was very silly of me, of course, and
very presumptuous. Of course so grand a man
could never have thought of me, and yet I loved
him. Well, Charlie, therefore, when I first saw
you, you so reminded me of him that my heare at
once opened out to sou ; I loved you for the memory
your bright face awoke in my lone heart ; the
memory of the foolish love and the foolish hope I
had had once, and, when I heard first from you
that you were his son, I loved you more and
thought that I would be a mother to the son of
the man I had so longed to marry. I have been a
Bad mother to you dear, but then I have been
weak and " —

Charles's sobs were all the answer he gave.

Dorothy, exhausted with the long speech she
had made, fell back and began to mutter things
incoherent, in which Charles' name and that of
her sister could alone be distinguished.

*' Doctor, is there no hope ? ^'

"No."

Not one ? No chance ? Dying ? "

"Aye, 1 fear so""

*^ You are not going? "

"No; I will stay till the end."

"The end! oh! oh! oh ! ^'

Dorothy ? "

'^ Dear boy."

**• Tell me what must I do ; I have had news " —

"Do? Do what is right, and love your
Dorothy well. She will watch over you and wait
for you. Charles Hauberk, give me your hand.
Now keep quiet and sit there. I will hold your
hand, and — Go down on your knees, still
holding my hand. God bless my boy; keep
him in Thy sight, and — Our Father which
art in — Yes, in heaven. Father, I am coming.
Good-bye, dear, I am going to your father. He
will know it now, and he will not " —

Her poor, little, withered hand tightened over
his. Her dim eyes, turned on his, became fixed
and rigid. Her lank chin dropped, her haggard
head fell back, and this simple little woman, this
child in all but years, had left the world.

The day passed, evening came. Night came
and still Charles Hauberk knelt there, like a man
frozen in his sleep.

Even n'eST VRAI QUE LE Beat.

From the side of that death-bed, Charles Hauberk-rose
a changed man. He had at last recognised
the miserable frailty of life, the unerring, inevitable
stroke of death. In the fervour of his
youth , in the warmth of his blood, in the glow of
his passion, in the seeming eternity of his
strength, he had thought that life was made for
enjoyment, and that he lived wisest who lived
best. But the sight of the ugly claw of Death,
stretched out before his very eyes, to grab a victim
in one so very dear to him, had awakened in him
a new train of thought, and had given him a new
view of life. He saw now that in so brief a
sojourn, so limited a span of existence, there were
surely better things to be gained than mere enjoyment,
and that it was his call, and hence his duty
to raise for himself a monument more lasting than,
bronze, to inscribe his name on the golden roll of
illustrious creators of beauty, and not to live a life
of nothingness, which the poppied sleep that overtakes
all men would cover with the greater
nothingness of death.

Pleasure palls in the end, ambition can be
gratified to the full of its extent, and, gratified,
become satiated ; the sweet joys of love or the

fierce delirium of lust will some time or another
grow cold and dead; vanity can be satiated;
hatred hateth not for ever — nothing lasts of
human passion, of human feeling, save one thing
only, the power of being impressed by beauty.

Beauty is eternal, has been from all time, is,
and shall be. Gods rise and fall back into the
dust of their ruined temples ; dynasties of kings,
which for a while seem to be eternal in the splendour
of their pomp, the magnificence of their
strength, are raised up, live a span, and finally
fall unremembered before the eternal principle of
change; what in one age were held axioms of
science and postulates of learning, in another age
are but the subjects of jest and derision. Creeds
and kings have passed away, are even now passing,
shall pass ; whatever in man or God we worship,
we worship but for a little while, knowing surely
that the time will come when the throne shall be
vacant and unrewarded, when the altar shall bestrewn
with ashes and the temple laid low.

But beauty lasts for ever, and from all time hasher
worship been, is, and shall always be. Her
influence is felt not for a little while only, not in
some one place only, but for ever and ever, universally.


Those who dwell in the precincts of her temple
need not fear that heresy, or regeneration, or rebellion
will offend their queen ; for as long as
the moon rises, as long as the flowers blossom, as
long as the form lies hidden in the marble, or the
picture in the colour, or the song in the reed, solomon

shall she reign, so long shall she be worshipped.


These were the thoughts that came to Charles
as he walked one sad evening after the death of
Dorothy by the shores of the lake. How pitiful
seemed to him all that he had been striving after,
all he had longed for, all that he had so earnestly
desired all his life-time honos.

strongly did beauty speak to him now, calling
him, who had tarried so long among the foolish
burghers of the outer world, to come and lie at her
feet, to bring his offering, however small, and to
be admitted in that garden where the flowers
never fade, where the linnet by day and the
nightingale by night are never silent, where the
lyre is ever attuned, and the wind ever melodious
amid the reeds.

Far off he could hear the nugent bittern bumping
in the marsh, and in the trees the homeless
cuckoo, sad rogue and vagabond, calling for some
Bohemian clamour. Around him in the gardens
and on the hills he marked the many lights, now
red, now white, glinting from the chest nut trees
with their coloured candelabra, the argent and
amber azaleas, the rock-ruby rhododendron, the
languid laburnums with their many grape-like clusters
of golden flowers, the hawthorn, which does
for our English woodlands what the gorgeous oleander
does for the hillsides of Italy, glowing here
and there with a flush of rare and radiant colour,
on which the eye, wearied of the many tints and
shades of green, rests with pleasure and is relieved

; and that tree, very plentiful upon our
English hills, that takes its name from the month
when the trees do burgeon and all the flowers
blossom ; in the fields, the buttercups with leaves
glossy and glazed like enamel of gold, the
querulous, questioning daisies , the somnolent,
yellow poppies, the full-throated, purpled pansies,
the honey-coloured cowslips, the broad-leaved
Bacchus bole, the earnest star-faced narcissi, the
anxious marguerites, and that flower which loves
her sisters and cannot well live alone, the hyacinth
that pales and pines when no other hyacinths
grow near to bear her company; and on the lake
the nenuphar, or water-lily, sweet bringer of
nepenthe to those who love too well, with leaves
which, as they rise and fall with the undulations
of the moving mere, seem for all the world like
pulsing hearts ; and on the lake, too, the reflected
splendours of the sky, aflame with the setting sun,
gleaming and dancing with varied lights that
looked to him now like vipers of burnished gold
gilding over polished porphyry, now like quoits of
black iron with rims luminous with red flame
skimming over a floor of marvellous mosaic, now
like lights dancing in red wine spilt on white
marble.

So hath it beene cried, ^' so shall it always
be — beauty, beauty alone is eternal. All else is
voiceless, all else is pulseless, all else is but for a
season, and dead and dumb for ever after. I have
been all wrong, I have been blind, I have not
known myself. What is the dirty world to me?

What to me is its blame ? What to me is its
applause ? What to me its honours ? Let them
eat and drink ; let them fatten on mast and
acorns ; let them gladden themselves with empty-words
and ?mptj thoughts ; let them tread their
barren paths to their barren graves. I give
myself to art I give myself to beauty. I hold
higher than any earthly honour, any mundane
honour of princedom or duchy, marquisate or
earldom, county or baronage, the name of poet.
Death, v^hen it comes to me, shall find me doing,
not enjoying'

In this state of mind he turned away and retraced
his steps to Keswick, where he had taken
lodgings. Dorothy was to be buried on the
morrow, and he was staying on to pay her the
last mournful tribute of friendship.

It would be difficult to analyse the exact effect
that the sudden shock of this awful death had had
on the young man. For the first day or two he was
simply stunned, and walked listlessly about,
muttering, " Dorothy is dead." " Poor old
Dorothy is dead' '^ Poor old Dorothy is dead."
Then he became more composed, but found that
all his ideas had changed. His conduct by the
side of Derwentwater has been described ; perhaps
a deeper feeling than the one he professed
underlay his sudden expression of contempt for
Worldly honours. Perhaps the regret he had felt
as he knelt by the side of the little woman who
had tried to be a mother to the son of the man

she had loved, had given him a foretaste of what
his regret would be if some day he should have to
kneel by the death-bed of his own, his real, his
corporeal mother, and have to accuse himself that
hut for him her life too might have been a happier
one, and that but for him her dear eyes would
have reddened with fewer tears. It was with this
awakened feeling of tenderness in his heart
towards his mother that he had gone out for his
walk, and when the heart is mollified the whole
soul is more impressionable.

Whatever the cause might be, he walked home
to his lodgings with the firm purpose to respect
his mother's feelings, and in her life-time at least
to advance no claim, the establishing of which might
cause her, who had already so suffered, to suffer
more, but to live quietly and retiredly, and to work
out the noble thoughts within him, and to live as a
creator of beauty should live.

Dorothy's funeral was very simple, and there
were but few mourners. Colonel Markham, the
Eev. John Troutbeck, and Charles were the only
gentlemen present, and Mary Kennedy and two
or three other ladies formed with these the whole
procession. Charles stayed behind in the churchyard
after the service was over, and the thoughts
to which the solemn and sad ritual had given
birth strengthened him in the resolution he had
formed.

When he got back to Laburnum Cottage he
heard that Dorothy's will was going to be read,

and partly from curiosity, partly for diversion, lie ^
entered the room where this formality was to take
place.

Under Dorothy's frugal management the
General's £20,000 had increased to £30,000, all
well invested in good securities ; and all this was
left to different poor relations, not one of her
many needy cousins being forgotten. Some of
the clauses were very funny, for the testatrix
frequently added to her legacies pieces of sound
advice.

To Rebecca Hirdon, my cousin, £100. (She
had better not travel first-class.) "

"To Jane Cranfield, my cousin, £200. (Late
dinners only mean increased expenses.) "

To Lucy Eiggan, my cousin, £500. (Gowns
are made cheaper in Keswick than in London.) "

And so on.

One clause, it was last, ran thus —

"To my dear friend, Charles Hauberk Benson, I
bequeath £1,000, free of legacy duty. (May it
help him to become a very worthy member of
society, only he should not smoke so much.) '■'

Her "dear sister Sabine Hiram" she appointed
residuary legatee, making at the same time a few
remarks about her brother-in-law, Bartlemy, which
were not exactly complimentary, though no doubt
shrewd and to the point.

As soon as this was all over, Charles left Keswick,

stayed a day or two at Amalekite, and went
up to London in time to keep* his second interview
with his mother and Mr. Bennett.

As soon as he reached London he drove to the
Grosvenor Hotel, and once more took possession
of the apartments reserved for him there. He
reached this hotel on the evening before the day
appointed by Mr. Bennett on which, he was to give
his final decision with reference to his laying claim
to the Brookshire title and estates. !Neo sooner
had he entered the hotel and enjoyed once more
the luxury of adulation paid by the menials to his
supposed grandeur, and tasted the practical sweets
of worldly wealth, when he began once more to be
sorely exercised in his mind as to whether he was
not acting very foolishly in renouncing the
splendid position and illustrious name that he
might secure for himself.

A very trivial circumstance had almost brought
him to recant. As he drove up to the door of the
Grosvenor, and was calling to a porter to come
and take his box off the cab, another carriage, a
brougham, adorned as to its panels with the illustrious
coat of arms of the ,
surmounted by a baronial coronet, drove
up also. La the carriage he saw the portly figure
of the brewer, the father of his late friend, who,
as he had read in the papers, had just received
his peerage patent. Of course, the poi-ter was
more inclined to serve a real live lord than any
commoner, and hastened to attend to my Lord

VOL. III. s

Mangles, leaving Charles furious at this neglect.
But he had been too deeply impressed by the
death of his little friend, he had too fully learnt to
appreciate the value of human love, and the
nobility of manliness to forget his purpose or alter
his determination for the sake of a pique.

By refusing these honours'' he said to himself
as he walked upstairs to his rooms, " I shall be
nobler than he, nobler than yonder man; and
Dorothy, poor old Dorothy, will think better of
me, better of me."

When he had rested himself a little he wrote to
!Euphrosyne a final letter —

"• Grosvenor Hotel,

"London, W.
^'Mt Vert Dear Girl, —

I write to you to tell you that I can
never prove myself other to your mother, the
Baroness, than what she thinks me to be. As to
you, I know very well, that that is a matter of very
small import, of no significance at all. I shall be
detained in London but for a few days longer,
and directly that it is possible will come to
violence. I have had much to suffer this last
month, perhaps most of all that I was not able to
write to you; but very many strange things have
come across me, and I have been much perplexed.
But, s'^osa mia, I have all this time been buoyed
up by a vague feeling of hope, I know not whence
arising, that you are true to me in deed as well as
in heart, and that you still love me as much as

sou told me. You remember, do you not,
Euphrosyne, the road to Massa? And I feel
certain, I know not how or why, that I shall soon
have you for ever my own.

In a week at the latest I shall be with you. Till
then oppose your mother. When I come I will
take you away — by force if by no other means.
You belong to me. You have given yourself tome.
I will have you ; no other man, prince or
peasant, shall go even near to 3'ou. Dishonoured
as I am, I shall be honoured in you; poor, I shall
be exceeding rich in the possession of my darling ;
outcast, I shall find shelter in your arms. Bohemian,
I shall find a dear fatherland in your presence.

"What one week ago I telegraphed to you I
now repeat; hope and be loyal, Euphrosyne, hope
and be loyal.

Ever you's,

Charles."

This letter cost Charles no little struggle with
himself; these words of self-abasement taxed the
strength of the noble resolution he had formed, to
no small degree. Indeed, he spent upwards of four
hours in writing and re-writing this letter, and at
least a score of letters of a different tenor were
torn up with a hesitating hand. For, though for
himself he was willing to forego all the advantages,
all the fame, all the enjoyment of the position
which was lawfully his, though for the sake of a
mother whom he had never known and whom he
had scant cause to love, he was willing to do an

act of great and noble gallantry , though ready to
bring a sacrifice of unparalleled unselfishness, for
the sake of a poor, distressed woman, who bad
.been very cruelly wronged, tbougb for the sake of
a principle of the biggest nobility, the purest
generosity, be bad resolved to abandon what be
bad all bis life so eagerly coveted, so passionately,
nay even so morbidly longed for, yet, when be
reflected that bis sacrifice might entail another
sacrifice greater than be could bear, the loss of the
dear lady wbo bad become part and parcel of ibis
being, be felt indeed bow very weak is the flesh ;
and at times, as he thought of the dreadful loss
be might incur, he felt inclined, nay, be even
felt it a duty, to change his mind, and, opposing
the sorrows of Euphrosyne to the sorrows of his
mother, to consider the dear girl whom he loved
rather than the mother whom he had never known.

But manliness, and honour, and strength of purpose,
and unselfishness, and the true nobility that
lay in him, conquered at last and thus it came
that his letter to Euphrosyne contained not the
faintest indication of what he really was, but
pleaded for plain Charles, what plain Charles bad
won.

Ob ! bow be longed to write her a different
letter ; bow he longed to tell her that the world
bad lied after all, that her mother had been wrong
and unjust ; that loaded with wealth, and resplendent
with one of the most glorious names of
the glorious nobility of England, be came to her
always the same lowly admirer, lowly slave, self-abased

before her peerless beauty, her gorgeous
worth; that, as the son of a hundred earls, he was
still very proud to claim what the pariah had won,
and as a man of large fortune saw still greater
value in what the beggared outcast had so highly
appraised.

It was a terrible temptation, and a mighty
struggle in all truth; but Charles Gentleman
conquered over Charles Nobleman, and the letter,
as written above, was the one he sent.

Before he went to bed he walked to his window
and looked out — it was a starlight night. He
stood thus, looking at the heavens for some time
in silence, then he spoke, saying —

"Have I done well, Dorothy? Have I done
well?"

Charles Gentleman had tears in his eyes when
he went to bed.

A BARTERED HONOUR.

At noon of the next day Charles was sitting in
his drawing-rooms awaiting the arrival of Mrs.
Dixon and Herbert. He was dressed in mourning,
which seemed to render the pallor of his face still
more distinct. He was very pale, for he had passed
a very bad night, anxious, excited, and too fatigued
by mental and bodily strains to sleep.

The first to arrive was Herbert. He came alone.

"Charlie," he cried, 'what is the matter?
What has happened?"

What should have happened ? "

You are in mourning ! "

Dorothy, Dorothy Crosthwaite is dead."

"What!" cried Herbert, "not Dorothy, the
little old woman who was so kind to you, who
rescued my poor darling Esther " —

Yes ; I have just come from her death-bed."

Poor Charles ! I can hardly tell you how
startled, how very, very sorry I am. Do you know?"
I had meant to go to Keswick myself to see the
dear old lady, and to thank her for her great
goodness to you and to poor, poor Esther. '^

'^ She is buried in the Keswick churchyard. If
there is any truth in the Christian religion she is
being thanked by the angels now," said Charles.

Tell me, Charles, tell me all about it ; how did

she die ? Tell me how did she first get to know
sou ? What was she like ? It is not cariosity,
jon know. She was good to you, my brother."

I can hardly bear to think of her, of her
death, I mean, much less to speak of it. Some
day, some day T will speak about it. Believe me,
Herbert, there are many martyrs who never
suffered martyrdom, many saints whom the world
never canonizes."

Yes, yes," said Herbert, " I am certain of it.
Never mind talking about Dorothy, then, if you
don't like. I heard from Esther how kind she
had been to her, and I wanted " —

"Tell me," said Charles. " So you have found
Esther again. "What was your first meeting
like ? "

There was warm love on both sides," said
Herbert ; " with that any meeting between two
persons is pleasant, is it not?"

*' Yes, yes, I daresay. Did she explain her
eccentric behaviour with that Hiram, or whatever
his name was ? "

It was some time before I cared to touch on
that subject, but I wanted to know about it, and
after we had talked of many things, I said,
'Esther, whatever made you run away with' —
She interrupted me before I had done speaking,
and passed her hand wearily over her forehead,
saying, * Don't ask me, Herbert; I hardly know.
Do you know that I sometimes feel here that
I am not quite responsible for all I do. Impulses,
impulses drive me to do things, the regret

comes afterwards, but it always comes too late.'
When I heard my mother's story, for the first
time, I remembered Esther's words impulses,
impulses.' Have you not, Charlie, felt in yourself
how ready you are to act on impulse ? I myself
have."

Yes ; I never knew why. When I heard Mrs.
Dixon^s story, I understood that that part of my
nature was inherited. I have often thought — so
mad have my actions been — that T am partly mad,
but it seems to me to be a family affliction. Did
Mrs. Dixon ever tell j^ou that an^^ of her people — -
.any of the Lovell were — were deranged ? "

Herbert laughed. " No-oho," he said ; " it
looks rather like it, though— I declare I am the
only steady one of the lot. Poor mother, how
headstrong she was ; then Esther, whatever could
have possessed her, and you, Charles, haven't you
added about ? "

'like a ship without ballast or rudder," said
Charles. " Still I make no self-reproaches. Oh,
yes, I do, Herbert ; there is one thing I want to
says

no, no," said Herbert; 'you shall not
say one word about it. You wrote to me afterwards;
it is all right. You must not think of it
it is all bygones. We are brothers now."

"Well," said Charles, "it is very generous of
you to forget so gross an outrage. I have not
forgotten it; I never shall. Well, well, as you
wish it, I won't say anything about it. But I

want one question. Did sou. know at the time
that , that we were" —

Brothers, no ; why ? "

You said something I did not understand at
the time. You said — don't you remember ? —
You have struck your ' — What did you mean ? "

'' I don't know, Charles. I tell you I have forgotten
all about it. I did not know that you were
my brother then, though I loved you as one. I
suppose I was going to say your best friend.'
Do you think if I had ever even dreamt that we
were brothers, that I should not have behaved very
differently to you ? "

'you behaved very well to me, Herbert, better
than I deserved. Hark, I hear someone coming —
it is the Countess" —

Herbert went up to his brother, and throwing
his arm round his neck, whispered, "No, no,
Charles; not the Countess, not Mrs. 'Dixon, but
01^?* mother, our another."

Mrs. Dixon entered the room. She looked
anxiously at Charles ; her nervous air and pale
face told very distinctly what a week of suspense
the last had been ; indeed, she had been very
very anxious since her last interview. Charles
had appeared so utterly indifferent to her sorrow,
so careless as to what the consequences of his prosecuting
his claim might be to her, so ready, apparently,
to dismiss all considerations of sentiment
from his counsels, and to merely treat the matter
from a purely business point of view, that she felt

that there was abundant ca-use to fear that she
would not be considered, and that the whole of
her wretched life, with its fatal ambiguities, would
have to be laid bai-e before the world, thrust cruelly
into the pillory of publicity.

To tell the truth, Herbert, too, had been
very anxious, for he loved his poor mother so-dearly
that any sorrow that might threaten her
threatened him with a double menace. He had
not had the courage to speak to Charles when he
first came in ; he feared too much to hear a cold,
worldly answer. This fear had been gradually
dispelled by the unusually kind treatment he had
received from his brother, only to grow stronger
when he heard Charles speak of his mother as
the Countess."

Even then he did not dare to make a last endeavour
to soften Charles' heart, but had merely
appealed to him to remember that the lady was
their mother.

Charles answered nothing to Herbert's exclamation,
but went up to Mrs. Dixon, took her handled
her to a seat, and seated himself beside her.
Herbert stood looking on in anxious silence.

Tell me," said Charles, " are you my mother,,
my real, my own mother ? "

Yes, Charles, I am your mother."

Charles said nothing, but took his mother's
hand into his, and sat thus in silence for several
minutes. At last he spoke.

Tell me, mother, did you often want me when,
you were away from me % "

** Every day, every hour, my boy'

How did you feel without me ? "

Yery lonely, Charles, very, very lonely."

'* Did you want me very much ? "

"Yes, yes, very much."

Were you pleased when you heard. I was found,'
that you were going to see me ? "

"I had not a moment's peace till I did see you."

Another silence. After awhile Charles spoke
again. '^ Were you very disappointed when you
saw me ? "

'' Charlie ? "

I mean, was I, was I very unkind to you ? "

"You did not know me, you know."

"Are you very glad to have me here sitting by
yen ? Do I not seem strange to you? You must
have forgotten me ? "

A mother never forgets her son dear."

Do you love me now ? "

Charlie, why less now than ever ? Have I not
found you whom I had lost, my eldest, my firstborn,
my darling boy ? "

Her words were eloquent, but more than eloquent
were her tears.

Will you forget that I have been unkind to
you, dear mother ? Will you kiss me ? "

Would she kiss him? Would she kiss him
once, twice, ten times, a hundred times. Ah !
Charles, do you not feel that if all the gold in the
world were minted and coined into sterling currency,
not even all that wealth could buy one
such kiss?

Would she kiss him ? Would she kiss him ?
Did not she feel, when she held him in ber arms,
that she cared not whether each kiss was the last,
so sweet it seemed, that life could bring her now
no greater joy, that death might come and take
her away before she awoke and found that the
delirious glow of gratified maternity was nothing
but a dream ? Had not her lips yearned a thousand
times to touch his? Had she not kissed the
empty air in day-dream, in night-dream, for him
and to him ? Would she kiss him now when she
held him, doubly-found, in her arms ?

Herbert looked on with a pleasant, beaming
smile on his face.

Charles saw this, and strange to say it irritated
him.

He found himself betrayed into what was odious
to him — a sentimental scene, a thoroughly bourgeois
Porte-St.-Martin pose.

He rose from the sofa and from revelling finality,
and asked Herbert when Mr. Bennett was coming.

'' I hear him now," said Herbert, '^ dear Charles'

Curious young man, Charles. These two words
of endearment nearly made him change his mind;
he felt irritated with his mother and with Herbert.
Why, he could by no means explain to himself.

Mr. Bennett entered.

Good morning, my lord," he said cheerfully.

Herbert started and looked at Charles. Mrs.
Dixon, still overcome with emotion, sat still on the
sofa.

Charles had walked to the window and stood

looking ont with his back to the room. He stood
thus some time, while Mr. Bennett was exchanging
civilities with Mrs. Dixon and Herbert. These
mutual salutations did not take long, and silence
soon obtained. Charles, however, kept his place
at the window with his back to the room, saying
nothing. Why did he not speak ?

What would he say ?

Nobody will ever know, nobody can ever know
what passed through his mind as he stood there.
The struggle in his mind, now that it had come
to the last moment, when he was to speak finally
and decisively, was nearly driving him mad. All
the bitter past, Euphrosyne, the triumph over
the lying world, wealth, honour, fame, acquittal,
revenge, love, all clamouring on the one hand,
contempt of the world, filial affection, Republicanism,
duty, and a vague feeling of what would be
truly noble, truly generous, on the other. He felt
as if he was paralyzed, as if he could not turn
round and speak ; he felt he ought to have more
time ; another month, a week, a day, an hour,
nay, a few more minutes, before finally settling a
matter of such paramount importance.

Why did he not speak ? WTiat would he say ?

They stood watching him inferrible suspense.
Would he never speak ?

What was that sentence written in letters of
fire on the cloudy London fog outside ?

A8 the mother of Euphrosyne, daughter of Gilleroy
de Bienaimee, 1 cannot overlook the bar sinister J"*

Should he prove that she lied ? Could he give

up the power of making the proud lady recant, or
should he be silent for ever beneath the reproach
and venerate the memory of the dead brewer, who
had lived so respectable alife/had died so honourable
a death?

Who was that man, down there in the street,
that the crowd were doing so much obeisance,
making so many bows to ? Was it not Lord Drier ?
Let us see. The Hauberks received their peerage
patent from Charles I. ; Lord Drier signed the roll
a month ago ; ten months ago nobody knew him.
Would not the crowd be a hundred times more
polite, more subservient to him — a Hauberk of
ultra-Conquest ancestry ? It would be pleasant to
be bowed to ! Pleasant ? To be bowed to, and
made way for, and looked after, and pointed out
as a higher being, by the insolent bourgeois, who
till then had passed him as an unclean thing, a
pariah, a chance-child, a bastard ; who had said
"hush" when his name was mentioned, who had
pointed him out but as someone to be avoided, or
to point an unctuous homily to their children on
the desirability of vice, and the advantages,
social and theological, of honest wedlock; who
had called him, till then, the son of nobody, or,
grosser insult still, the son sprung from the grimy
loins of the people.
Filius Nullius. Earl.

Euphrosyne, wife of the son of the people')
Euphrosyne, Countess, lady of the people. \
Clear off the reproach, and be happy. ^
Bear it, and respect Dixon. J

Why did he not speak ? What would he say ?
What wretched refrain is that that is now ringing
in his ears —

J'aim-e mieux ma mere, ague
J'aim-e mieux ma mere.

Yes, but one lives with one's mother all one's
life to love her like that. Anyone can understand
a person making a great sacrifice for a
mother who has sacrificed all her life in his service
— but r 1671 pour rien, nothing for nothing

? Dorothy tried to be a mother. Dorothy
dead. Regret. Ah! it is all clear now.

Charles tore himself from the window, and
almost jerked himself round. They started to seethe
pallor and pain on his face. What would he
say?

Mr. Bennett," he said, very deliberately and
gravely, '' you addressed me as ' my lord ' just
now. You must never do so again. I am only
Charles — Benson, that is all."

He said it, and walked tremblingly to his
mother. Kneeling down before her he hid his
face in her lap, and said —

Be happy, dear mother, I have atoned. The
past shall be the past."

When he was sufficiently composed he begged
them to leave him alone — he was very tired he said,
he wanted no thanks. " I am being thanked elsewhere,"
he said. Would they all come again in a
day or two. Yes, the morrow would do ; so they
left him alone then.

They all went silently from the room. Charles
Benson threw himself on the sofa and lay therefor
a long lime ; his face was hidden in his
hands, his whole body trembled from time to
time.

A DREAM WHICH WAS NOT ALL A Dream.

As he lay on the sofa, weary and exhausted,
trembling with the reaction from the excitement
he had just undergone, many and various were
the anxious and perplexing questions and thoughts
that occupied his head. Scarcely knowing
whether what he had done were matter for self-congratulation
or for grudging regret, the probable
consequences of his decision alone occupied
his thoughts.

Euphrosyne — what would she say ? What would
she do ? Would she be as ready to bring sacrifice
as he had been ? Would she, the timid girl and
affectionate daughter, have the strength, or even
the will, to so oppose her mother as to leave her
home, and run away with him ? Even to him, who
was ready to form the wildest plans, to dream of
the most imaginary and imaginative undertakings,
this project of his seemed too wild, too impossible.
And as this forced itself more and more sternly
on his mind, the greater did his excitement become,
the greater did his sacrifice appear. What
was he to do ? Was he to put away all the habits,
uses, prejudices, and pursuits of his past, forget
or destroy all that had gone before, and go away

VOL. III. o

as Charles Lovell or as Charles Dixon, with his
newly-found mother and brother, and live with
them on Herbert's annuity of £1,000 a year, a
pensioner of that Dixon whose ill-fated uxoriousness
had been the indirect means of causing him
to lose all the richest prizes of life.

Indeed there seemed very little else for him
to do. His means, even when subsidised with
Dorothy^s^s generous legacy, were far too small to
keep him even in comfort, and he had very little
power of self-denial. Silks, cigarettes, perfumes,
travels, his tastes for horses and dogs, and other
luxuries swallowed up more than his yearly income,
leaving no margin for the bread and cheese
necessary to this life, and the books necessary to
his life. All counted, and barring the very slight
probability of getting any further restitution from
his guardian, John LukeElphinstone, all he had to
look to was a meagre £1 50 a year, quite insufficient
for his wants. How was he to live on this,
and, very much more important question, how was
he to keep a wife, and such a wife as Euphrosyne,
on such an income ? He was far too keenly appreciative
of the pleasures of refined life to have any
foolish anticipations of the delights to be found
in a " love in a cottage ■" life. When one is very-young,
and passion is but a sensual dream, there
seems a subtle delight in the idea of poverty
sweetened by the delirious ecstasies of love ; but
one soon finds out that passion needs Burgundy,
not ginger beer, for its drink, and truffles, not

onions, for its food, and that the dear one we
worship would soon bore us in cotton prints.

One thing he was very certain of, and that was
that he was not going to take a farthing of
Dixon^s money. Indeed, he thought that it would
be much better for both sides if he saw as little
of his mother and brother as possible. Their
tastes and his were different. He was a Bohemian,
they were settled folk. He was an artist, they
were bourgeois. No ; it was evident that he must
work for his living, but how ? So far his poetry
had been a failure ; he could not see any dollars
in that. What he had seen of journalism had disgusted
him, though at the time he had been glad
to earn sos. a week by contributing to the Clapham
Mercury. He foresaw that journalistic
writing would inevitably spoil his style, and style
was to him the essential of his art. Besides, the
few journalists he had met had so set his teeth on
edge that he could not bring himself to fancy himself
one of them. He well remembered dining
with one very celebrated contributor to the press,
whom, supposing him to be an artist also, he had
consulted on the subject of taste in poetry. The
celebrated journalist had shrugged his shoulders.
Free Speech on Peckham Rye, and the Outlook
in the Sandwich Islands et *similis were more in
his '' line " than prickly, but he must say he
liked " We are seven," and Macaulay's "Lays of
ancient Rome," had never read Shelley, thought
Swinburne immoral, k.t.l. So he did not care to

hope for literary fame from a pursuit of the
journalistic profession.

His future seemed to him a tangled maze of conflicting
purposes and projects.

Charles jumped to his feet, and paced about the
room. Then, as was his habit when he felt
puzzled, he lit a cigarette,, and, returning to the
sofa, sat down to smoke it. But one cannot well
enjoy the relaxing luxuries of tobacco in an uneasy
posture, and so presently he lay once more
stretched out on the sofa. Finding that thinking
began to bore him, he presently abandoned it, and
occupied himself with blowing, or trying to blow,
into the air curled kisses of vapoury rings from his
cigarette. Soothed by the opiate, tired by the
events and excitements of the day, wooed by the
luxurious softness of his couch, he began to feel
drowsy, drowsy, drowsier, drowsier, and soon was
fast asleep.

He had had many strange dreams in his life, but
never was dream so strange as the dream that came
to him as he lay sleeping on that sofa.

For it seemed to him at first that he was as a
pilgrim walking, footsore and weary unto death,
through a doleful valley, a troublesome desert,
where all was dim and dark, and where biting
winds of evil savour buffeted his face and that in
his hands was the dust of wasted years and dead
days, and round his temples a tight cord that bit
as with fire into his head, and that by his side

there was a sort of shadow that kept pace with
him with equal steps, but which unlike other
shadows, was not an opaque silhouette of his
form, but in the shade of a note of interrogation,
an eternal question, a wherefore P a why ?
a whether ? a whence ? a doubt of his raison
d'etre.

And that from first wondering at the curious
form of this, his shadow, he soon began to be
annoyed, perplexed, and startled at its shape, and
at its ever following him pertinaciously ; that
presently this feeling of annoyance grew into fear,
and fear into abhorrence, and that, though weary
and full of lassitude, he began to run through the
gloomy valley, hoping to escape from this terrible
companion, but that it was all in vain, for the
terrible

still followed him.

Then he ran on, not straight before him, but
through devious ways, trying to avoid the terrible
phantom beside him with an incommunicable, indefatigable
feeling that he could never do this,
but that this fearful, self-accusing, eternal

would flicker by his side as long as he lived ; that,
at last, too weary to continue his flight, too disheartened
any longer to cope with the haunting
ghoul that dogged his steps, he flung himself
upon the brown and harmless ground and lay

there in terror ; but that presently there came
one who touched his shoulder with a kindly hand,
and looking up, he beheld, standing beside him,
no longer grim and ungainly, but glorified and
effulgent, the form of Dorothy, who spoke to
him kindly and bade him arise ; and who, taking
him by the hand, led him out of the valley of
sorrow and self-reproach into a beautiful garden,
where no shadowy phantom by his side did vex
him and looking round, he saw that the shadowy

had left him ; that he felt that in this garden he
would find the one he loved, but stood perplexed,
not knowing which path to take, for in front of
him there was a path which led through heavy-scented
magnolias to a bower of flowering
myrtles ; and on the left another path that was
fringed with weeping willows, and which led to a
grove of burnished laurels that were watered by a
stream of flowing tears ; and to the right was a
sloping path that wended up a steep incline,
through jagged rocks and prickly briars, to a maze
of shrubs and flowers, which had all the gleam
and glory of gold ; and behind him was another
path that sloped downwards, through a double row
of sombre Judas trees, into an abyss that he could
not fathom, but where all was shrouded in dark,
cruel, unsavoury night.

Here he stood hesitating, not knowing which
path to take, for he knew that one would lead him
to the dear form of his beloved, yet which he could

not tell. And then he took counsel of his guide
asking which road he should take. She answered
saying —

The names and the interpretations of the paths
are these. The one leading to the fragrance of
the flowering myrtle is the path of Passion ; the
one that leads through weeping willows to the
garlanding laurels is the path of Poetry ; the
steep and perilous incline that brings the wanderer
to the golden wealth of the shrubs and
flowers is the path of Worldly Success ; the gloomy
downward slope between the Judas trees is the
way of Treachery."

But still he stood hesitating, and knew not
which to choose.

Euphrosyne ! Euphrosyne ! Euphrosyne !
There are you ? " he cried , for he seemed to feel
her presence very nigh unto him.

I am here, Caro, I am kere.^'

Where ? " he cried.

"Here, dear one, here by your side."

He started and woke, and, raising himself on
his elbow, looked round. His eyes were heavy with
sleep and blinded by the light that streamed in
through the window, and he saw nothing.

How strange a dream ! " he said, falling back
on the couch. " I thought I heard her voice,
I thought I heard her say — ' I am here, dear
one, here by your side' — and it was only a dream
after all."

^' I am here."

What ? " he cried, starting to his feet, " that

voice again? What? Eupliros^'iie? Here? Bianca?
It is really sou, or am I still dreaming ? Speak,
speak. '^

Yes, sjposo mio, I am here. Come, that I may
kiss you."

In all sooth it was Euphrosyne that stood thereby
the side of his sofa, and not less surely was that
Bianca di Caserta with her. Both were di-esse in
travelling costumes, and both were radiant with
excitement and merry with smiles. Never had
Euphrosyne looked so pretty, never so desirable,
never so full of love.

Charles, who was still in doubts as to whether
he were dreaming or not, had little doubts as
to what to do, but, rushing across the room,
he caught his darling in his arms, and covered
her face and hands with kisses, only pausing
now and then to receive in exchange the sweeter
tribute of her lips.

When for very satiety he ceased, he walked
away a few steps and looked at them. Yes, there
they were. It was no dream. That was Euphrosyne,
whom he had supposed to be pining in
Florence, that was Bianca, her friend.

He had all his life through so little heeded the
conventionalities of the world, that there seemed
to him nothing very strange or very unnatural in
their sudden appearance in his room. All he knew
was that he felt very glad, very happy, very, very,
thankful at having them so near.

So he did not, as no doubt he should have done,
had he been what is known as a well-behaved.

steady, rational jouiio; man, pour forth such questions
as " Whatever did you come for? Is it not
rash ? " &c., &c., but he simply made them sit down,
Bianca on a chair, and Euphrosyne by his side on
the sofa.

Looking from one to the other, longest at the
other, he burst out laughing, saying —

However did you come here ? '■'

Straight from Florence ! " said Euphrosyne,
lauofhino^.

How long have you been in London ? "

Half an hour," said Bianca.

However did you find me out ? "

'^ Your telegram, you know," said Euphrosyne,
drawing it from her pocket.

'' Of course," said Charles. " Well, I suppose
you were anxious at not hearing from me, and " —

"Very," said Euphrosyne, and her tone confirmed
what she said.

So you came. Well, darling, it proves what
was proven before, that you love me ; but the
Baroness, is she " —

Euphrosyne looked pleadingly at him as though
to deprecate a word of blame, then, turning to
Bianca, she said —

Sorely mia, tell him all about it."

Taking Euphrosyne's warm little hand in his,
and winding his arm round her waist, Charles also
begged Bianca to explain it to him.

I have not much to tell," said Bianca ; " we did
not have many adventures on the way, though
we cere stared at a good deal, but nowhere more

than in this hotel when we asked for Mr. Charles
Hauberk. The English are a strange people, and
though they say their time is money they seem
to occupy a good part of it with other people's
affairs. Well, Charles, having attacked your bella
patria, I will tell you what you want to know.
You did not write. La Baroness wanted my
brother for a son-in-law, he wanted our darling
for his wife, and our darling's money for his
creditors. Never was a girl so hemmed in as
Euphrosyne. She was formally engaged at a very
splendid fia7igailles, and all Florence congratulated
my brother, and wished her happiness. I did not,
I knew where her love was, and told Arnolfo so,
only he was not noble enough to desist. He was
in earnest, and so was poor little Mina. You should
have seen how she treated the dress she appeared
in that evening."

"What did you do, darling?" said Charles.

'' I tore it off and stamped on it. I was engaged
to you, you know."

*' Dear little Euphrosyne ! "

Well' continued Bianca, " everything was
settled. The Baroness would not hear of any
delay, there was no delay to be hoped for from my
brother. His creditors were too pressing. Now
was the time when you should have come — only
you did not. Euphrosyne was in despair ; you had
not answered her last letter " —

I could not, I could not," cried Charles.

Of course you could not or you would, I know
that," said Euphrosyne.

No," said Bianca, " we thought that perhaps
you had never got it. Euphrosyne did not know
where you were, or she would have written to you
to come. We waited and waited, and no news
came from you ; and, well you should have seen
our darling pale and pine, as day after day passed
and she had not one comfort from you. At last
within seven days of the day fixed for her
marriage with my brother, on the day when a
dressmaker had come to try on her wedding
dress, she had an interview with him, and begged
him, oh ! she did beg him, to have pity on her
and to at least delay the marriage. But it was no
use ; Arnolfo, who formerly was the most
generous, the most noble of men, had become so
changed with his changing fortunes that I hardly
knew him as the man whom I had once so admired,
so loved. He kept her to what was fixed, and
but for a strange accident this cruel sacrifice would
have been consummated, and you would have had
no little Euphrosyne to sit by your side. That same
night Arnolfo disappeared. Two notes were left
at our house saying that business had called him
away to Rome, and that the marriage might be
deferred. We never found out what the business
was, but Arnolfo certainly did keep away, and the
day when poor little Euphrosyne was to have been
married passed by quietly enough. Meanwhile
we had not been idle, and Euphrosyne had made
up her mind to do what would free her from her
troubles. Of course the darling came to me and
told me about it, and equally of course I was only

too glad to help her. She had made up her mind
to run away. ' Well I said to her, ^ I will go
with you. Whither ? ' Whither should it be but
to you, whom she loved. She said that you might
be poor or ill, and that anyhow you were surely
wanting her, and that she would go to England
and find you, wherever you might be, and that she
was sure that love would help her to find you.
She wanted to go the next day, but I dissuaded
her, saying that as now the marriage day was
postponed she might well wait, seeing that each
day might bring news from you. Well, we waited ;
and at last your telegram did come, and in a few
days, on the pretence of a visit to an aunt of mine
who lives at Pisa, we left Florence, accompanied
by a maid servant " —

Where is she now ? '^ asked Charles.

'sin the hotel, downstairs," said Euphrosyne.

We came straight to England through Paris,
and only arrived in London an hour ago."

And the Baroness ? "

She will as yet know nothing about it. She
fancies us at Pisa. It is only three days since we
left her."

"You are all to me, Charles," said Euphrosyne
clasping her hands round his neck, " and for you 1
did this. For you and for myself, for I cannot
live without you."

Darling," cried Charles, pressing her in his
arms, " how can I thank you ; and you, Bianca,
what a friend you have been to me."

I have my reward," said Bianca with a sad
smile, suppressing a sigh.

"Well," said Euphrosyne, passing her fingers
through her hair, '' and do I find my boy well or
unhappy ? What grand rooms these are. This
does not look like poverty. Do you know, Charles,
I had hoped to find you in rags."

^' So that you might comfort me, darling. Well,
these are sadder than rags," said he, touching his
mourning clothes.

Yes," said Euphrosyne. ^' I notice them now.
Has anything very sad happened P "

'^ A dear friend has just left me. Oh Euphrosyne,
had I been in the most tattered of rags, in
the direst misery, your dear presence could not
comfort me more than it does now. Oh, you
thought rightly, my pretty little Euphrosyne, I
was wanting you ; I was ! I was ! I was dreaming
of you when you came. I am thinking of you
always. I cannot live without you""

You shall not," said Euphrosyne. " I have
come away from my home and from my mother
to tell you that you are dearer to me than home,
far dearer to me than my mother."

'' But, darling," said Charles drawing her closer
to his side, " can I, shall I, do you think, make upto
you for all that you will lose ? "

I lose nothing," interrupted Euphrosyne, '^if
I have you."

Then,'^ said Charles, "will you take me as I
am — poor, dishonoured, nameless ? "

"Yes."

Poor ? "

"Don't be silly."

Dishonoured ? "

How dishonoured ? "

Well, you know. Your mother told you it
all."

"Yes, yes. You are not dishonoured in my
eyes."

Nameless ? "

"Your name is for me Lover. What name is
sweeter ? "

But, Euphrosyne, when I tell you that I can
never, never clear off the reproach on ray name,
that I shall always be an unclean thing among
men?"

You silly boy, how dare you talk such nonsense.
What do I care for ^ men ' since I find all,
all I want in you."

Still, Euphrosyne, think that I am worse off
in every way than when I first knew you ; that I
had hope then, but now I know that all that was
said of me was truth. Will you ally yourself,
your father's name, to such as I ? You are an
angel, I know, but the angel is a girl, and you do
not see things as you will see them ten years
hence. Believe me, darling, it is terrible to be
proud, and yet to know one's self lower than the
hewers of wood and the drawers of water; it is
terrible to have good blood in one's veins and yet
only to feel it mantling one's cheeks with blushes
at one's own position; it would be more than
terrible for me, who am pretty well accustomed to

insult by now, to see you, my wife, insulted too.
Oh ! the scorn of the world is hard to bear, very,
very hard to bear."

Why so abase yourself ? " said Euphrosyne.
I tell you I love you, I tell you that I do not care
for the world. I tell you that I can see that you
are a gentleman ; I tell you that I know that you
have power in you to make yourself greater than
the great. But after all what can I say more than
that I love you ? ^'

Nothing, darling, nothings'

Bianca, who had been sitting looking quietly on
while the lovers were speaking, rose, and with her
hand pressed against her heart walked to the window
aud looked out. There were no tears in
Bianca's eyes, but a sorrow too strong for tears
\\as in Bianca^s heart.

Charles sat still; he was thinking. He was
thinking that a still greater sacrifice had to be
made, tJiat he could not take advantage of the
blind love of the girl to make her his wife without
her mother's knowledge. It took him some time
and cost him no little struggle to arrive at this
decision, but he did arrive at it, and said —

How long were you to stay at Pisa ? "

A fortnight."

'' Do you write much to your mother when you
are away from her ? "

"No, not often."

Then she won't have missed you ? "

^' I do not think so."

Euphrosyne, do you really love me ? "

Euphrosyne answered with a kiss.

Do you love me enough to do all I wish ? ''

The same mute answer.

Then, Euphrosyne you wall go back to Florence
with Bianca and the maid ; I will come with you,
I will go to the Baroness and tell her all about myself,
I will tell her how I love you and how you
love me ; I will tell her that only for the sake of
my — no, no, I won't tell her that — but I will make
her see that it is wrong, that it is cruel to keep us
from each other. I cannot take this advantage of
her. You must not do, dearest, what you may
regret. You are a dear, dear girl, and what you
have done for me is almost too beautiful to think
of ; but we must go back, Euphrosyne, for your
sake, darling, we must go back, and nobody need
ever knows'

Since you wish it, Charles. Do I not love
you ? ''

'' You do, dear girl. And is Bianca willing?"

Bianca goes where Euphrosyne goes."

And do you not think what I suggest will be
best?"

If after it the Baroness refuses to see your
nobility she must be blind. Euphrosyne would
have married you to-day had you wished it."

For her sake, for your sake, Bianca, I think it
better to go back. I can take my chance""

'^ We had weighed all the consequences," said
Bianca turning round from the window. '' We
foresaw what they would say, that we were wild,
maidenly, and so on ; but when a girl loves she

is desperate. Tes perhaps it would be better to go.
When shall it be ? ''

"Toil must be tired said Charles, "or I
would say at once. It is awkward, I can hardly
take rooms for you here. They would talk, the
scoundrels ; and yet there is a lady here whom I
know. Xo, that would not do, I don-'t want her
advice. I don't want Herbert to beam at them.
I do not know what to do or whom to consults'

VOL. III.

Hullo, Mr. Hauberk said Mr. Bennett rushing
in. " Oh ! I beg pardon, I thought you were
alone' he added, bowing to the ladies.

I asked you to come tomorrow," said Charles.

Yes, yes, my dear sir," said Mr. Bennett. '' I
know you did, but I have a bit of news for you, or
rather, two or three bits for you ; and as I thought
you would like to hear them at once I dashed off
to tell you. But, as I see you are engaged, I will
come again, say tomorrow."

"No,'^ said Charles, "no, I may have left
London by tomorrow. You had better tell me all
now ; and, indeed, I am rather glad you have come,
I want your advice. Euphrosyne, il faut que je
parle un petit moment a Monsieur, je reviendrai tout
a Heures

With these words he drew Mr. Bennett into the
next room and asked him to tell him his news.

"It is short," said Mr. Bennett. "The two
scoundrels who attempted to make money out
of their knowledge of your rights have been
arrested."

"Indeed. Where?"

Hiram was arrested in Granville, whither he
had been traced by a detective from Paris. You
remember that note that was given to you by a

stranger at the door of this hotel? WeU, that
told me that they were on his path. A telegram
from Granville to-days tells me that he is arrested.'^

'^ And Snowfield, or whatever his name was ? "

Was arrested at Liverpool.'^

'swell, as long as I am not to be bored with
them any longer I am glad of it.'^

Yes, but I have a better bit of news.-"

'what is it?'-'

I have had a letter from Lord Hauberk."

"Now, Mr. Bennett, you know that you must
not tempt me ; I made up my mind and don't
want to be unsettled. God knows it was a
struggles

Yes, it must have been. You acted nobly, sir.
Still I suppose you only mean to keep silence as
long as Mrs. Dixon lives. There will be no need to
forego your rights after that."

Ah, I did not think of that''

Well, will you hear this letter ? "

Yes, only my mind is made up."

'^ Do not think for one instant that I wish to
persuade you to alter your opinion. I can appreciate
generosity, and I fully understand your
motive. Well, it appears that the scoundrel
Hiram had an interview with Lord Hauberk,
told him of your existence and of your rights, and
tried to induce Lord Hauberk to pay him for his
silence."

'' Indeed."

Yes, but Lord Hauberk, who is a dried old
bookworm did not enter at all into Hiram's view

of the case, but sent Mm away without in any
words. He now writes to me —

Appledean.
'dear Sir, —
I have of late had reason to believe that I am
not rightfully in possession of this estate and of
the title I hold. It appears that my cousin, the
late earl, from whom I inherited, was clandestinely
married and had issue. Your name has
been mentioned to me as the legal representative
of the young man, Lord Brookshire^s son. Should
his claim be a just one, I have no intention of
opposing it. Could you come down to Appledean
at once and tell me all about it ?
"Yours,

"Hauberk pro tem.),^^

^' !Now, sir, I want to know what I am to do ? "

Charles hesitated.

You see'd said Mr. Bennett, " that no opposition
will be made when I bring the proofs I
possesses

'^ I don't want my mother's name brought into
it,^' said Charles. " You heard my promise, did
you not ? "

'^ Yes, but still I think that I had better go
down. Will you leave it to me r I will promise
that your mother shall not be disturbed."

How can you effect that ? "

By getting Lord Hauberk to draw up a formal
acknowledgment of your right, in the shape of a

will or other lesral instrument. You need not use
this as long as Mrs. Dixon lives, but after her
death you may " —

Well," said Charles, '' I will leave it to you.
I have to leave England for a short time. Look
here, Mr. Bennett, you have been a good friend.
Will you advise me on something ? "

^' To the best of my ability."

*^ You saw those two ladies ? "

'^Yes.^'

"Well, I am engaged to be married to one of
them. You will perhaps understand now why I
at first so persisted on my rights. That girl has
run away from home, where they were forcing
her into a marriage with a man she detests, in
order to find me. Of course I cannot take
advantage of her blind love for me, and I wish
to take her back to Florence. Yes, she came all
the way from Florence. They are too tired to
return to-night, or I would leave London at
once. I want to know where they can go for the
night?"

"Oh," said Mr. Bennett, "that is no difficult
matter. My friend Mrs. Carter, of Palgrave Square,
would make them very comfortable."

Well," said Charles, " you take it coolly. Are
you not surprised ? "

nothing would surprise me after this morning's
experience."

Could I act otherwise ? " said Charles.

^' No-o, I suppose not. It was wonderful, after

all YOn have suffered too. And gad, I see now
what made you so terribly in earnest. The lady,
oh, oh , oh."

'■^ The lady takes me as I am."

^'And she does well. You are a fine fellow,
Mr. Charles, a deuced fine fellow. Always count
on me as a friend."

Well, as an act of friendship will you see that
these ladies " —

Yes, certainly."

"' I leave London tomorrow. I suppose you are
in communication with Mrs. Dixon and my — Mr.
Lovell. Would you tell them I am gone for sometime.
I would really rather not go through a
farewell with them. I feel still rather sore, and I
have had too many emotions lately to care for anymore."


But look here, Mr. Charles. How are your
funds ? I don't think you can be well off.^^

'' Oh, well enough. I have about £3,000, and a
good many thousands in my brains, I hope."

The Appledean estates are worth at least forty
thousand a year."

I daresay ; but for forty times forty thousand
a year I would not " —

'' Of course not, I was only thinking about something.
Look here, Charles, you won't be offended,
will you? You can't remain with only £150 a
year. That's nonsense."

I won't touch Dixon's money."

"No, nor do I think your mother will. I wrote
to Hezekiah Dixon, the brother of the late Mr.

Dixon, for her, offering to refund all she had inherited,
minus of course the annuity of £1,000
which Herbert had left him'

I am glad of that," said Charles. " Hezekiah
Dixon, indeed."

*'!N"o ," said Mr. Bennett, '^I was not thinking
of that, when I said that sou can't remain as you
are. Now, if a couple of thousand would do you
any"-

No," said Charles, " thank you all the same,
but I am of a curious nature and hate the golden
mediocrity. I would rather be a loafer with £150
a year, than a bourgeois kind of fellow with £300
a year. £300 a year means suburban villa residences,
the Crystal Palace, &c. No ; aut Caesar,
aut nullus. Either Monte Christ or Lazarus. I
like adventures and lotteries. £300 a year is too
definite. You are very kind, but, no, I cannot
accept it. Oh, by the way, are these rooms paid
for?"

"Yes."

'' By whom ? "

By me."

"What was it?"

Never mind ; I took them for a certain purpose.
Of course I will pay for themes

Well, but they must be given up tomorrow.
I must not live in rooms like these."

'^ No, for the present, I suppose not."

Will you do as I asked you about the ladies ? "

*' Yes ; I will go to Palgrave Square immediately,
and see " —

Hullo, what is that ? " cried Charles and Mr.
Bennett, simultaneously.

A loud scream had been heard in the next room.
Another ! and another !

Charles flew to the door and tore it open, rushed
in, and suddenly stopped short. He found himself
face to face with

Madame La Bayonne de Bienaimee
who was standing, pale and indignant, in the
middle of the room. Euphrosyne had rushed to
the sofa, where she was lying with her face buried
in her hands.

Bianca, with an air of splendid defiance, stood
between the furious lady and Charles, as though
to shield him and protect him.

They remained thus a little while in perfect
silence. At last the storm broke.

Base ! Base ! I knew you were," cried the
Baroness, " but so vile a traitor never. But what
could one expect from such as you ? What can
honour be but an empty sound to a " . . .

Hush, hush, madam," cried Bianca.

Charles hung his head ; he could find no words.
He was thinking how much poor little Euphrosyne
must be suffering.

''I will speak," cried the Baroness. " Cur that
you are, had you no respect, no regard — but I
waste words. The vileness of your birth explains
your conduct. 1 will speak. What can honour
be"—

Hush, I say," cried Bianca. " You shall not
say it."

■ " Silence, girl," cried the Baroness. '^ What
can honour be but an empty sound to a
BASTARD ! ''

Charles winced, and looked imploringly at the
lady , pointing at the same time to Euphrosyne, as
though to deprecate the use of such a word in the
girl's presence.

x\h/' cried the Baroness. " You did not consider
her when you made your vile plans. Her
honour, my honour, the honour of her ancestors
was as nothing to you when — but. Bastard !
Bastard ! BASTARD ! " she shrieked.

'' Silence, madam ; my son is no bastard. He is
better born than anyone. You shall not insult him."

It was Mrs. Dixon who spoke. During the
Baroness's last words, the door of the room had
been pushed open, and she had entered, pale but
imperious.

With a grave and stately walk she crossed the
room, walked to the side of her son, put her arm
round his neck, kissed him. Then she stepped
into the middle of the room and faced the Baroness,
with her hand uplifted, commanding silence.

The mothers stood thus for a few minutes confronting
each other, both pale as death, but both
haughty and imperious.

The Baroness spoke first. Gathering her dress
about her with an air of disgust, she moved away
a few steps, then she cried —

And you, woman, who may you be ? "

Mrs. Dixon drew herself up to the fulness of

her stately height, tossed her imperial head, and
answered slowly, but with authority —

I ? I am a peeress of England. I answer no
questions from you."

Hush, mother," said Charles, " not for my
sake. Mother, the cup was bitter, but for your
sake I would feio'n drink it to the dress."

''!N"o, my son," said she. 'you shall not; I
can bring sacrifice too. Come. Tour name,
madam ? "

La Baronne de Bienaimee," said the Baroness,
almost awed by the authoritative dignity of her
questioner.

Allow me, Madame la Baronne de Bienaimee,.
to present you to my son, the Right Honourable
the Earl of Brookshire, Twelfth Viscount pericles,
Ninth Baron Hauberk of Carrickfergus in
Ireland, and Hereditary Lord Warden of Leicester
Castle."

As if bowed down by the splendour of these
titles, the Baroness made a deep obeisance to
Charles, who, hardly knowing what he did, stepped
forward and caught her hand and kissed it.

Come," said the Countess of Brookshire ; " one
act of courtesy deserves another. Present your
daughter to me."

The Baroness crossed the room, took Euphrosyne
by the hand, led her up to Charles, placed her
little hand in his, and said —

The Earl of Brookshire will do that for me."

Mother," cried Charles, as his eyes filled with

tears, " but no, it is too much, too much. My head
swims'

The Countess of Brookshire darted forward, and,
catching Euphrosyne in her arms, kissed her, and
said —

'' You need no introduction, my dear girl. Your
bright eyes tell me. You are his wife, and my
daughter."

Soit,^' said the Baroness.

THE LAST.

About three years after the events related in the
last chapter, the following memorandum was put
into the hands of Mr. Jonas Hawkrigg, stone-cutter,
of Melton Mowbray, one morning, by a servant
dressed in the Brookshire livery.

From Miles Barton, Bailiff, Appledean Hall, to
Mr. Jonas Hawkrigg, Stonecutter, Melton.
Deae Sie,

I am directed by the Earl of Brookshire
to ask you to send over one of your men to make
a slight alteration in the memorial slab to his
lordship's father, in the Park Church. His lordship
wishes this to be done at once. The words

Seventh and last Earl of Brookshire '
are to be altered to

Seventh Earl of Brookshire.'
Please see to this at once."

Yes; Mrs. Dixon had proved that she could
make a sacrifice too, and for the sake of her son
she had put forward her claim. Lord Hauberk
had made no opposition, being convinced of the
genuineness of the claim, but had retired from
Appledean, stipulating merely to be allowed to
take away with him from the Hall library the
works of the Due de la Rochefoucauld, in whose

favour he had quite abandoned the lesser Vauven-
argues. Charles had had little difficulty in legally
establishing himself the heir; and on the very
morrow of the day on which he had signed the
rolls, and had been congratulated thereon by the
Lord Chancellor, he married Euphrosyne, in whom
he found all his boyish dreams of happiness
realised.

His mother, weary of the world, had retired to
a little cottage in a secluded part of the island of
her birth, where she lived many years of peace and
quiet, in the company of her sister Esther.

Hiram, arrested at Granville, was brought before
the Cour despises of that town, convicted of forgery,
and condemned to travaux forces perpetuate
penal sei-virtute for life.

Ohizzlem Snorker, arrested in Liverpool for
theft and conspiracy, was summarily disposed of
for the former offence, no witnesses appearing
against him on the latter count. He suffered a
few months' imprisonment, performed, as he said,
on his head — a figure of speech probably akin to
the one known as inverted attraction. He afterwards
went to San Francisco, where he disappeared.


Sabine, robbed of her husband, became pious.
She wanders forlornly about the Continent from
one boarding-house to another. She is a soured
old lady, but essentially religious. She anxiously
asks every new acquaintance, if ever they have
read a book written in King Henry the Fourth's
reign — " On Scurvy Leeches or the Morale Blood

Suckers." On being asked the author's name,
she simpers.

The Duke di Caserta was released from the
bondage of the Signor Cittadini a few days after
the eighth Earl of Brookshire succeeded to his
estates, and lived at Genoa on a yearly pension
paid him by that nobleman, till he fell in with
the widow of an American pork butcher, whose
millions gild his ducal coronet with a luminous
lustre.

Bianca, poor womanly Bianca, carried the secret
of her love to her grave. She lies now in a tomb
in the Campo Santo at Florence and the cyclamen
and other wild flowers are sweet above her ; perhaps
some day — ah well !

Valentine Pimmins had no reason to regret
having written to Mr. Bennett, and his grandmother
lacked not in snuff to charm her old age.

Mrs. Martin received the price of many mangles.

Jonas Hawkrigg is obeying his lordship's command.
Jonas Hawkrigg executes the order in
person. No subordinate is worthy of so great a
task. Jonas Hawkrigg with his own hands is
removing the tablet.

At the church door stands Euphrosyne, Countess
of Brookshire; glorious sunlight dances in her
hair, in her eyes ; very glorious sunlight dances
in her heart.

Seventh and last ?

Take it out , Jonas Hawkrigg, bear it carefully
home, and there deep as chisel can cut, low as file
can file, remove those words. Last, indeed, Jonas !

No, not for two generations at any rate, though
Tve cannot promise more at present ; but, say,
Jonas, your own private opinion as a family man
do you think you will live to see the words,
^' and last ^' once more graven on a tablet to the
Earls of Brookshire ?

Sturdy little Philip is at your knees, Jonas;
look at him before you speak — little Philip, Lord
Hauberk, just two years old to-day. Well, Jonas,
you are heavily burdened — we won't trouble you
with questions now.

Where is Charles to-day?

In a retired corner of the churchyard by the
waters of the Derwent, surrounded by the solemn
grandeur of the eternal hills, there is, shaded by
patriarchal yews and made gay by many flowers, a
quiet grave. The stone bears the simple inscription
—

Dorothy.

Visitors often pause and wonder who Dorothy
was. Her resting place is so lovingly tended, and
made so lovely with flowers, that one might think
of some sweet girl who died before she had entered
on the sweetness of her life, whom her many lovers
cannot forget. And many who knew her not stop
gladly here and weep for Dorothy, and bring
flowers for Dorothy, and, even when far away feel
better for the thought of the holy simple grave of
the unknown girl whose name wakes in their

heart, it may be, some faint imaginings of the
goodliness and godliness that might be everywhere
if men loved each other, and God were indeed held
to be the Good Giver of all things.

To-day, there bend over this grave the forms of
three persons — two men and a woman.

"Look, brother," says Charles, ^^ there is
Dorothy Crosthwaite. Sister Mildred, there lies
one who old, was as a little child, a loyal, loving,
little woman. Herbert, Herbert, only think.
She, little Dorothy, loved our father, and only
told me when she was dying and begged me not
to laugh at her for her presumption. Think of
that, Herbert. She tried to be a mother to me,
Herbert, for his sake and " —

Mildred took from her bosom a flower, and laid
it on Dorothy's grave, saying — '' Sleep well, little
mother." Then she drew her husband's arm into
hers and whispered to him, saying, " Come,
Herbert, he will join us presently. Come away
now."

Reverently they passed on.

And long he tarried there, with his head uncovered
and with manly tears in his eyes, who had
offended and atoned, holding silent commune with
his Dorothy. And who shall say that she was not
glad of her boy that day ?

FINIS.
