OF THE
UN Diversity
OF ILLINOIS



Sh8j



v.\

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

m

L161 — O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/johninglesantrom01shor

9 Romance

'AyaTnjTOL, vvv reKva Qeov icr/xev, /ecu
o&7ru ecpavepwdr] rl iaofieda.

VOL. I.

3lonDort

MACMILLAN AND CO.


TO

RA WD ON LEVETT, Esq.

MY DEAR LEVETT,

I dedicate these volumes to you, that I may have an
opportunity of calling myself your friend.

J. HENRY Storehouse.

LANSDOWNE, EDGBASTOX,
May i, 1S81.

OF

MR. JOHN Inelegant
SOMETIME SERVANT TO KING CHARLES I.

WITH

AN ACCOUNT OF HIS BIRTH, EDUCATION, AND TRAINING BY
THE JESUITS

AND

A PARTICULAR RELATION OF THE SECRET SERVICES
IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED

ESPECIALLY IN CONNECTION WITH THE LATE
IRISH REBELLION

WITH

SEVERAL OTHER REMARKABLE PASSAGES AND OCCURRENCES.

ALSO

HISTORY OF HIS RELIGIOUS DOUBTS AND EXPERIENCES

AND OF THE Colonists OR QUIETISTS IN ITALY
IN WHICH COUNTRY HE RESIDED FOR MANY YEARS

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF

THE ELECTION OF THE LATE POPE

AND

MANY OTHER EVENTS AND AFFAIRS.

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.

DURING my second year at Oxford I became acquainted
with a Roman Catholic gentleman, the eldest son of a
family long resident on the borders of Shropshire towards
Vales. My friend, whose name was Fisher, invited me to his
home, and early in my last long vacation I accepted his invitation.
The picturesque country was seen to great advantage in
the lovely summer weather. That part of Shropshire partakes
somewhat of the mountain characteristics of Wales, combined
with the more cultivated beauties of English rural scenery.
The ranges of hills, some of which are lofty and precipitous,
which intersect the country, form wide and fertile valleys which
are watered by pleasant streams. The wide pastures are
bordered by extensive plantations covering the more gradual
ascents, and forming long lines along the level summits. We
had some miles to drive even from the small station on the
diminutive branch line of railway which had slowly conveyed
us the last dozen miles or so of our journey. At last, just at
the foot of one of the long straight hills, called Edges in that
country, we came upon my friend's house, seen over a flat
champaign of pasture land, surrounded by rows of lofty trees,
and backed by fir and other wood, reaching to the summit of
the hill behind it. It was an old and very picturesque house,

VOL. I. b

jumbled together with the additions of many centuries, from the
round tower-like staircase with an extinguisher turret, to a handsome
addition of two or three years ago. Close by was the
mutilated tower of a ruined priory, the chancel of which is used
as the parish church. A handsome stone wing of one story,
built in the early Gothic style, and not long completed, formed
the entrance hall and dining-room, with a wide staircase at the
back. The hall was profusely hung with old landscapes and
family portraits. After a short introduction to my friend's
family, we were soon assembled in the newly finished diningroom,
with its stone walls and magnificent overhanging Gothic
fireplace. The dinner party consisted of my friend's father
and mother, his two sisters, and a Roman Catholic clergyman,
the family chaplain and priest of a neighbouring chapel which
Mr. Fisher had erected and endowed. The room was hung
entirely with portraits, several of them being ecclesiastics indifferent
religious costumes, contrasting, to my eyes, strangely
with the gay cavaliers and the beautiful ladies of the Stuart'
Court, and the not less elaborately dressed portraits of the last
century, and with those of my host and hostess in the costume
of the Regency. I was struck with the portrait which happened
to be opposite me, of a young man with a tonsured
head, in what appeared to me to be a very simple monk's
dress, and I asked the Priest, a beautiful and mild-looking old
man, whom it was intended to represent.

A singular story is attached to that portrait," he said,
which, it may surprise you to learn, is not that of a — a member
of our communion. It is the portrait of a young Englishman
named Inglesant, a servant of King Charles the First,
who was very closely connected with the Roman Catholics of
that day, especially abroad, and was employed in some secret
negotiations between the King and the Catholic gentry; but
the chief interest connected with his story consists in some very
remarkable incidents which took place abroad, connected with

the murderer of his only brother — incidents which exhibit this
young man's character in a noble and attractive light. He is
connected with Mr. Fisher's family solely through the relations
of his brother's wife, but, singularly, he is buried not far from
here, across the meadows. In the latter years of his life he
purchased an estate in this neighbourhood, though it was not
his native country, and founded an almshouse or rather hospital,
for lunatics, in the chapel in which his tomb is still
standing. That portrait, in which he appears in the dress of a
novice," he continued, turning to the one before me, "was
taken in Rome, when he was residing at the English college,
where he certainly was received, as he appears to have been
generally when abroad, into full communion with us. As a
contrast to it, I will show you another in the drawing-room, by
Vandyke, which, though it really was intended for his brother,
yet may equally well represent himself, as, at that period, the
two brothers are said to have been so exactly alike that they
could not be known apart. On his tomb at Monk's Lydia,
as you may see if you incline to take the trouble to walk sofar
— and it is a pleasing walk — he is represented in his gown
of bachelor of civil law, a degree which he received at Oxford
during the civil war, and he is there also represented with tonsured
head. I have often thought," continued the Priest,
musingly, " of arranging a considerable collection of papers
referring to this gentleman's story, which is at present in the
library ; or at least of writing out a plain statement of the
facts ; but it would be better done, perhaps, by a layman. I
have the authority of these young ladies," he continued, with a
smile, turning to the Miss Fishers, " that the story is a more
entertaining and even exciting one than the sensational novels
of the day, of which, I need not say, I am not a judge."

The young ladies confirmed this as far as their knowledge
went ; but they had heard only fragments of the story, and
were urgent with the clergyman to set about the task. He,

however, replied to their entreaties only by a shake of the head ;
and the ladies soon after left the room.

When we went into the drawing-room, I was eager to seethe
Vandyke, and was shown a magnificent picture at one end
of the room, representing a singularly handsome young man,
in a gorgeous satin court dress of the reign of Charles the
First, whose long hair and profusion of lace and ornament
would probably, in the work of another artist, have produced
an unpleasing impression, but, softened by the peculiar genius
of Vandyke, the picture possessed that combination of splendour
and pathos which we are in the habit of associating only
with his paintings. His satin shoes and silk stockings contrasted
curiously with the grass on which the cavalier stood,
and the sylvan scene around him ; and still more so with his
dogs and two horses, which were held at some little distance
by a page. His face was high and noble, but on closely comparing
it — as I did several times — with that of the Monk in
the dining-room, I arrived at the conclusion that either the
likeness between the brothers was exaggerated, or the expression
of the survivor must have altered greatly in after years ;
for no difference in dress, great as was the contrast between
the coarse serge of the novice and the satin of the cavalier,
and between the close-cropped tonsured head and the flowing
love locks, would account for the greater strength and resolve of
the portrait in the dining-room, combined, strangely, as this
expression was, with a slightly wild and abstracted look, indicating
either religious enthusiasm, or perhaps unsettlement of
the reason within ; this latter expression being totally wanting
in the face of the cavalier.

The next day was Sunday, and I opened my window on a
lovely prospect of lawn and water, with the fir woods sweeping
up the hill-sides beyond. Walking out in the avenue when I
was dressed, I met the family returning from low mass at the
chapel. I attended high mass with them at eleven o'clock.

The Chapel was picturesquely built higher up in the wood than
the house. It had a light and graceful interior, and the coverings
of the altar were delicate and white. The exquisite plaintive
music, the pale glimmer of the tapers in the morning
sunlight, the soothing perfume of the incense, the sense of
pathetic pleading and of mysterious awe, as if of the possibility
of a Divine Presence, produced its effect on me, as it does, I
imagine, on most educated Churchmen ; but this effect failed
in convincing me (then, as at other times) that there was more
under that gorgeous ceremonial than may be found under the
simpler Anglican ritual of the Blessed Sacrament. After
church, my friend, who had some engagement with the Priest,
accepted my assurance that I was fond of solitary walks ; and
I set off alone on my quest of the tomb of John Inglesant.

I followed a footpath which led direct from the ruined
Church near the house, across the small park-like enclosure,
into the flat meadows beyond. The shadows of the great
trees lay on the grass, the wild roses and honeysuckle covered
the hedges, a thousand butterflies fluttered over the fields.
That Sunday stillness which is, possibly, but the echo of our
own hearts, but which we fancy marks the day, especially in
the country, soothed the sense. The service in the morning
had not supplied the sacrament to me, but it had been far
from being without the sense of worship; and the quiet
country in the lovely summer weather, in connection with it,
seemed to me then, as often, the nearest foretaste we can
gain of what the blissful life will be. As I went on the distant
murmur of Church bells came across the meadows, and following
a footpath for a couple of miles, I came to the Hospital or
Almshouse, standing amid rows of elms, and having a small
village attached to it, built probably since its erection. The
bells which I had heard, and which ceased a little before I
reached the place, were in a curious turret or cupola attached
to the Chapel, which formed one side of the court. The

buildings were of red brick, faced with stone, in the latest
style of the Stuart architecture. The door of the Chapel was
wide open, and I entered and dropped into a seat just as the
Psalms began. The room was fitted in a style exactly corresponding
to the outside ; a circular recess at the upper end
took the place of chancel, lighted with three windows, which
were filled with innumerable small panes of glass. The altar
was richly draped ; and on it, besides vases of flowers, were
two massive candlesticks of an antique pattern, and an old
painting, apparently of the Virgin and Child. The lower
walls of the chancel and of the whole Chapel were panelled,
and the whole had a flat ceiling of panelled oak, painted in
the centre with a sun with rays. Partly in the chancel, and
partly in the Chapel, the surpliced choir was accommodated
in stalls or pews, and the organ and pulpit, in elaborate
carved mahogany, completed the interior. There was a good
congregation ; and from this, and from many tablets on the
walls, I gathered that the Chapel was used by the neighbourhood
as probably being nearer than the Parish Churches.
The soft afternoon light filled the place, gilding the old brass-work,
and lighting up the dark carving and the sombre narrow
pews. The music was of a very high class, deliciously sung,
and I found afterwards that there was an endowment especially
for the choir, and that the chaplains were required to be
musical. The service bore comparison favourably with the
morning's mass, and a short sermon followed. When all was
over, and the people were gone out into the sunshine, I began
to look for the tomb I had come to see, and the chaplain,
having come out of the vestry, and seeming to expect it, I
went up and spoke to him. I told him I had walked from
Lydiardrd — my friend's house — to see the tomb of the founder,
to which I had been directed by the Roman Catholic gentleman
who resided there. He was well acquainted with Father
Arnold, he told me, and took me at once to the tomb, which

was in a recess by the altar, screened from view by the choir
seats. There he lay, sure enough, just as the Priest had told me,
carved from head to foot in alabaster, in his gown of bachelor
of civil law, and his tonsured head. The sculptor had understood
his work ; the face was life-like, and the likeness to the
portrait was quite perceptible. The inscription was curious —
sub marre into Johannes Inglesant, Spectator, usque ad
judicium late, expectant revelation filiform Dei."

I told the chaplain what Father Arnold had told me of
this man's story, and of the materials that existed for writing
it He had heard of them too, and even examined them.

"The Priest will never write it," he said

Why do not you ? " I asked.

He laughed. " I am a musician," he said, " not an author.
You seem more interested in it than most people ; you had
better do it."

As I came back across the fields I pondered over this
advice ; and after dinner I asked the Priest the story. He
told me the outline, and the next morning took me into the
library, and showed me the papers.

The library at Lydiardrd is a very curious room below the
level of the ground, and in the oldest part of the house. It
adjoins the tower with the extinguisher turret, by which there
is communication with the bed chambers, and with the leads
and garrets at the top of the house. The room was large,
and had several closets besides a smaller room beyond, which
had no visible communication except into the library; but
the Priest showed me a secret doorway and staircase, which,
he said, descended into the cellars. Both these rooms and
the closets were crammed with books, the accumulation of
four hundred years — most of them first editions, and clean as
when they came from the binder, but browned and mellowed
with age. Early works of the German press, a Caxton, the
scarce literature of the sixteenth century — all the books which

had once been fashionable — Cornelius Agrippa, and Cardan,
two or three editions of the Euphues, folios of Shakespeare
and the dramatists, and choice editions of the literature of the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, down to our own day.
Besides this general literature, there was a large collection of
Roman Catholic works and pamphlets, many privately printed
at home or published abroad ; biographies of Seminary Priests
who had suffered death in England, reports of trials, private
instructions, and even volumes of private letters, for Lydiardrd
had always been a secure hiding-place for the hunted priests,
and more than one had died there, leaving all his papers in
the library. No fitter place could exist in which to attempt
the task I had already determined to undertake, and I
obtained leave of the Priest, promising to make nothing public
without his approval. I had the whole vacation before me ;
too idle and desultory to read for honours, I had always been
fond of literature and the classics, and was safe for my degree,
and I gave myself up unreservedly to my task. I have
endeavoured, as Father Arnold said, to tell a plain story. I
have no pretensions to dramatic talent, and I deprecate the
reader's criticism. If I have caught anything of the religious
and social tone of the seventeenth century, I am more than

content.

GEOFFREY MONK, Mea.

CHAPTER I.

WHEN Cromwell, Earl of Essex, was in the zenith of
his power, and was engaged in completing the suppression
of the smaller monasteries before commencing on the
greater, — he had in his service a young gentleman named
Richard Inglesant, the son of a knight, and descended from a
knightly family, originally of Flanders, who had come into
England with the Princess of Hainault. This young man was
of an attractive person, a scholar, active and useful in many
ways, and therefore a favourite with his master. One evening
in the end of June 1537, he was sent for by Cromwell into
the great gallery of his magnificent house in Throgmorton
Street, where he found his master walking up and down in
thought.

You must be ready to depart at once, Richard," he said,
"into Wiltshire. I have in this commission appointed you
Visitor of the Priory of Westacre, six miles south of Salisbury,
on the way into Somerset, which they call the Priory in
the Wood. The King's Grace is resolved on the suppression
of this house, as a priory ; but note very carefully what I tell
you ; — it will be for your guidance. Great interest has been
made to his Grace's Highness on behalf of this house, both by
many of the gentry dwelling thereabout, and also by the common
people by the mouth of the Mayor of Malmsbury. They
say the house is without any slander or evil fame ; that it
stands in a waste ground, very solitary, keeping such hospitality,
that except with singular good management it could not

be maintained though it had half as much land again as it has,
such a number of the poor inhabitants nigh thereunto are daily
relieved. The Prior is a right honest man, and well beloved
of all the inhabitants therewith adjoining, having with him, in
the house, eight religious persons, being priests of right good
conversation, and living religiously. They spend their time in
writing books with a very fair hand, in making garments for
the poor people, in printing or graving. Now the prayer of
these people is that the King's Highness shall translate this
priory into a college, and so continue as many of the priests
as the lands will maintain for the benefit of the neighbours ;
and the King is much inclined to do this. Now, on the other
hand, this house has a proper lodging, where the Prior lay,
with a fair garden and an orchard, very mete to be bestowed
on some friend of mine, and some faithful servant of the King's
Grace. There is no small number of acres ready sown with
wheat, the tithes ordered for barley ; the house and grounds
are well furnished with plate, stuff, corn, cattle ; the woods
well saved, and the hedgerows full of timber, as though the
Prior had looked for no alteration of his house. I had set
mine hand on this house for a friend of mine, but the King's
Grace is determined upon this : — if the Prior will surrender the
house in a discreet and frank manner, and will moreover, on
Sunday next, which is the Feast of the most Precious Blood,
after mass, to which all the neighbouring people shall have
been called, in his sermon, make mention of the King's title of
Supreme Head, and submit himself wholly, in all matters
spiritual, to the King's Grace, under Christ, the house shall be
continued as a college, and no man therein disturbed, and
not so much as an ounce of plate taken, that they may pray
God Almighty to preserve the King's Grace with his blessed
pleasure. Now I send you on this mission because, if things
go as I think they may, I mean this house for you; and there
is so much clamour about this business that I will have no

more hands in it than I can help. Take two or three of the
men with you whom you can trust ; but see you fail not in one
jot in the course you take with the Prior, for should it come
to the King's ears that you had deceived the Prior — and it
surely would so come to his Grace — your head would not be
your own for an hour, and I should doubt, even, of my own
favour with the King."

Richard Inglesant was on horseback before daylight the
next morning ; and riding by easy stages, arrived at Salisbury
at last, and slept a night there, making inquiries about
the way to VVestacre. At Malmsbury, and at all the villages
where he stopped, he heard nothing but what agreed with what
Cromwell had told him ; and what he heard seemed to make
him loiter still more, for he slept at Malmsbury a second night,
and then did not go forward to Westacre till noonday. In
the middle of the summer afternoon he crossed the brow of
the hilly common, and saw the roofs of the Priory beneath him
surrounded by its woods. The country all about lay peaceful
in the soft, mellow sunlight ; wide slopes of wood, intermixed
with shining water, and the quiet russet downs stretching
beyond. Richard had sent on a man the day before to warn
the Prior, who had been expecting his coming all day. The
house stood with a little walled court in front of it, and a
gate-house ; and consisted of three buildings — a chapel, a
large hall, and another building containing the Prior's parlour
and other rooms on the ground floor, and a long gallery or
dormitory above, out of which opened other chambers ; the
kitchens and stables were near the latter building, on the right
side of the court. The Prior received Inglesant with deference,
and took him over the house and gardens, pointing out
the well-stocked fish-ponds and other conveniences, with no
apparent wish of concealing anything. Richard was astonished
at the number of books, not only in the book-room, but also
in the Prior's own chamber; these latter the Prior seemed

anxious he should not examine. As far as Richard could see,
they were, many of them, chemical and magical books. He
supped with the Prior in Hall, with the rest of the household,
and retired with him to the parlour afterwards, where
cakes and spiced wine were served to them, and they
remained long together. Inglesant delivered his commission
fairly to his host, dwelling, again and again, on every particular,
while the Prior sat silent or made but short and inconclusive
replies. At last Inglesant betook himself to rest in the guest-chamber,
a room hung with arras, opening from the gallery
where the monks slept, towards the west ; one of his servants
slept also in the dormitory near his door. The Prior's care had
ordered a fire of wood on the great hearth that lighted up the
carved bed and the hunting scene upon the walls. He lay
long and could not sleep. All night long, at intervals, came
the sound of chanting along the great hall and up the stairs
into the dormitory, as the monks sung the service of matins,
lauds, and prime. His mind was ill at ease. A scholar, and
brought up from boyhood at the Court, he had little sympathy
with the new doctrines, and held the simple and illiterate
people who mostly followed them in small esteem. He was
strongly influenced by that mysterious awe which the Romish
system inspires in the most careless, even when it is not strong
enough to influence their lives. The mission he had undertaken,
and the probable destruction of this religious house, and
the expulsionTof its inmates for his benefit, frightened him,
and threatened him with unknown penalties and terrors hereafter
which he dared not face. He lay listlessly on his bed
listening to the summer wind, and when at last he fell asleep,
it was but a light fitful slumber, out of which he woke ever and
anon to hear the distant chanting of the monks, and see by
the flickering fire-light the great hounds coursing each other
over the walls of his room.

In the morning he heard mass in the chapel, after which

the Prior sent a message to explain his absence, informing him
that he was gone to Malmsbury to consult with his friends
there how he might best serve the King's Grace. All that
morning Richard Inglesant sat in the hall receiving the
evidence of all who came before him (of whom there was no
lack) — of the neighbours, gentry, and country people. He
evidently examined them with great care and acuteness, noting
down every answer, in a fair clerkly hand, exactly as he received
it, neither extenuating anything nor adding the least
word. He also in the same report kept an exact account of
how he passed his time while at Westacre. There appears
as Cromwell had said — not to have been the least breath of
scandal against the Prior or any of the priests in the house.
The only report at all injurious to the character of the Prior
seems to have been an opinion — oftentimes hinted at by the
witnesses — that he was addicted to the study of chemistry and
magic ; that, besides his occult books, he had in his closet in
his chamber a complete chemical apparatus with which he
practised alchemy, and was even said to be in possession of
the Elixir of Life. These reports Inglesant does not appear
to have paid much attention to, probably regarding them as
not necessarily coming within the limits of his commission ;
and, indeed, there is evidence of his having acted with the
most exact fairness throughout the investigation, more than
once putting questions to the witness, evidently for the purpose
of correcting misapprehensions which told against the Prior.
After dinner he rode out to the downs to a gentleman who
had courteously sent him word that he was coursing with greyhounds
: he, however, was not absent from the Priory long,
declining the gentleman's invitation to supper. After he had
supped he spent the rest of the evening in his own chamber,
reading what he calls " Ovidii Masons metamorphoses libri
moralist," an edition of which, printed at Leipsic in 15 10,
he had found in the Prior's room.

The next forenoon he spent in the same manner as the
last, the people mocking in voluntarily to give their evidence
in favour of the house. A little after noon the Prior came
back, travelling on foot and alone. As he came along he was
thinking of the words of the gospel which promise great things
to him who gives up houses and land for the Lord's sake.

When he reached the brow of the hill from which he could
see the three red-tiled roofs of the Priory peeping out from
among the trees, with the gardens and the green meadows,
and the cattle seen here and there, he stood long to gaze.
The air was soft and yet fresh, and the woods stretching up
the rising-grounds about the Priory were wavering and shimmering
all over with their myriad rustling leaves, instinct with
life and beauty both to the ear and eye ; a perpetual change
from light to shadow, from the flight of the fleecy clouds,
would have made the landscape dazzling but for the green on
which the eye dwelt with a sense of rest to the wearied and
excited brain. A gentle sound and murmur, as of happy and
contented beings, made itself softly felt rather than heard,
through the noontide air. " Omnes qui delinquent patron,
domes, uxorem," said the Prior; but his eyes were so dim
that he stumbled as he went on down the hill.

Richard Inglesant and he were some time alone together
that evening. Whether the Prior prepared him at all for the
course he had determined to pursue, does not appear, but
certainly he did not, to any great extent.

The next day was Sunday, being the " Feast of the most
Precious Blood " — a Sunday long remembered in that countryside.
The people, for a score of miles round, thronged to
hear the Prior's sermon. The Mayor of Malmsbury was there ;
but the clergy of the Abbey, it was noticed, were not present.
The little Chapel would not hold a tithe of the people — indeed,
few more than the gentry and their ladies, who came in great
numbers, were allowed admission. Richard Inglesant and the

Sheriff had Fall-stools in front of the altar, where they remained
kneeling the whole of mass. The doors and windows of the
Chapel were opened, that the people outside might assist at
the celebration. They stood as thick as they could be packed
in the little courtyard, and up the sloping fields around the
Priory, listening in silence to the music of the mass ; and at
the sound of the bell the whole multitude fell on their knees
as one man, remaining so for several minutes. Mass being
over, the Prior came in procession from the Chapel to where a
small wooden pulpit had been set up just outside the gatehouse,
in front of which seats were placed for the Sheriff and
Inglesant, and the chief gentry. The silence was greater than
ever, when the Prior, who had changed the gorgeous vestments
in which he had celebrated mass, and appeared only asa
simple monk, ascended the pulpit and began to preach.
The Prior was a great preacher; a small and quiet man
enough to look at, when he entered the pulpit he was transfigured.
His form grew dignified, his face lighted up with
enthusiasm, and his voice, even in the open air, was full and
clear, and possessed that magical property of reaching the
hearts of all who heard him, now melted into tenderness, and
now raised to firm resolve. He began with the text that had
haunted his memory the day before, and the first part of his
sermon was simply an earnest and eloquent exhortation to
follow Christ in preference to anything beside on earth.
Then, warming in his subject, he answered the question
(speaking that magnificent English tongue that even now rings
in the pages of Fore), Where was Christ? and urging the
people to follow Him as He manifested Himself in the
Church, and especially in the sacrament of the altar. Then
suddenly throwing aside all reserve, and with a rapidity of
utterance and a torrent of eloquence that carried his hearers
with him, he rushed into the question of the day, brought
face to face the opposing powers of the State and Christ,

hurled defiance at the former, and while not absolutely naming
the King or his council, denounced his policy in the plainest
words. Then, amid the swaying of the excited crowd, and a
half stifled cry and murmur, he suddenly dropped his voice,
pronounced the formal benediction, and shrank back, to all
appearance, into the quiet, timid monk.

It is needless to describe the excitement and astonishment
of the crowd. The Prior and his procession with difficulty
returned to the chapel through the press. The Sheriff and
Richard Inglesant, who with the other leading gentry had
affected perfect unconsciousness that anything unusual was
taking place, entered the hall of the Priory, and the Prior had
a message sent into the sacristy that the King's commissioner
desired to see him immediately in the parlour.

When the Prior entered, Inglesant was standing upon the
hearth ; he was pale, and his manner was excited and even
fierce.

You are a bold man, master Prior," he said almost before
the other was in the room ; " do you know that you have this
day banished yourself and all your fellowship into the world
without shelter and without help ? Nay, I know not but the
King's Grace may have you up to answer for this day with your
life ! Do you know this?"

The Prior looked him steadily in the face, but he was
deadly pale, and his manner was humble and cowed.

Yes, I know it," he said.

Well," continued the other still more excitedly, " I call
you to witness, master Prior, as I shall before the throne of
God Almighty, that I have neither hand nor part in this day's
work ; that you have brought this evil upon yourself by your
own deed and choice, by no want of warning and no suddenness
on my part, but by your own madness alone."

It is very true," said the Prior.

I must to horse," said Inglesant, scarcely heeding him,

and ride post to my lord It is as much as my head is
worth should any rumour of this day's business reach the
King's Grace by any other tongue than mine. You will stay
here under the Sheriffs guard ; but I fear you will too soon
hear what a tragedy this day's play has been for you ! God
have you in his keeping, Prior ! for you have put yourself out
of all hope of mercy from the King's Grace."

He might have said more, but an alarming noise made
him hasten into the hall. The most lawless and poorest of
the people — of whom numbers had mingled in the crowd in
the hope of spoil, taking for granted that the house was dissolved
— had made an attack upon the Chapel and the Prior's
lodging, and it was some time before the Sheriff, assisted
by Inglesant and the other gentlemen and their sen-ants,
all of whom were armed, could restore order. When this
was done, and the peaceable people and women reassured,
Inglesant's horses were brought out, and he mounted and
rode off through the dispersing but still excited and lawless
crowds, leaving the Priory to a strong guard of the Sheriffs
men. As he rode up the hill — the people shrinking back tolet
him pass — he muttered, bitterly :

A fine piece of work we have set our hands to, with all
the rascal people of the country to aid. And why should not
the Poverty get some of the droppings, when the Gentry cuts
the purse ? "

Travelling at a very different pace from that at which he
had ridden from London, he reached the city the next night,
and went at once to the Lord Cromwell, who, the next morning,
took him to the King, to whom he gave a full account of
what had occurred. Henry — who appears to have been
induced to form his previous intention by the influence of a
gentleman at Court who probably had his private expectations
with regard to the future possession of the Priory — seems to
have really cared little about the matter. He was, however,
vol. 1. c

highly incensed at the Prior's sermon, and made no difficulty
of immediately granting the Priory to Richard Inglesant. A
pursuivant was sent down to bring the Prior up to London to
be examined before the Council, but it does not appear that
he ever was examined. Probably Inglesant exerted his influence
with Cromwell in his behalf, for Cromwell examined
him himself, and appears to have informed the King that he
was harmless and mad. At any rate, he was set at liberty ;
and his troubles appear to have actually affected his reason,
for he is said to have returned to the neighbourhood of
Malmsbury, and to have wandered about the Priory at nights.
The other inmates of the Priory had been dispersed, and the
house taken possession of by Inglesant's servants ; but he
himself seems to have taken but little pleasure in his new
possession, for it was more than a year before he visited it ;
and when he did so, events occurred which increased his
dislike to the place.

It was late in October when his visit took place, and the
weather was wild and stormy. He slept in the Prior's guest-chamber,
which was in the same state as when he had occupied
it before. The wind moaned in the trees, and swept
over the roofs and among the chimneys of the old house. In
the early part of the night he had a terrible dream, or what
was rather partly a dream and partly a feverish sense of the
objects around him. He thought he was lying in the bed in
the room where he really was, and could not sleep ; a fierce
contention of the elements and of some powers more fearful
than the elements seemed going on outside. The room
became hateful to him, with its dark, hearse-like bed, and the
strange figures on the tapestry, which seemed to his bewildered
fancy to course each other over the walls with a rapidity and
a fantastic motion which made his senses reel. He thought
that, unable to remain where he was, he rose and went out
into the old dormitory, now silent and deserted, from one end

of which he could look into the courtyard, while from the
other he could see a dark mass of woodland, and a lurid
distant sky. On this side all was quiet ; but the courtyard
seemed astir. The moon shone with the brightness of day on
the mouldering, ivy-grown walls, and on the round pebble
stones between which the long grass was growing all over the
court. The wind swept fiercely across it, and splashes of
rain, every now and then, made streaks in the moonlight like
fire; strange voices cried to him in an unknown language,
and undistinguished forms seemed passing to and fro. The
Chapel was all alight, and low and mournful music proceeded
from it, as for the dead. Fascinated with terror, he left the
gallery and descended into the court. An irresistible impulse
led him to the Chapel, which was open, and he went in. Ashe
did so, voices and strange forms seemed to rush forward to
enter with him, and an overwhelming horror took possession
of him. Inside, the Chapel was hung with black; cowled
forms filled the stalls, and chanted, with hollow, shadowy
voices, a dirge for the departed. A hooded and black form
stood before the altar, celebrating the mass. The altar was
alight with tapers, and torches were borne by sable attendants
on either side of the choir. The ghostly forms that entered
with him now thronged about him in the form and habit of
living men. Voices called from without, and were answered
from within the Chapel; rushing sounds filled the air as
though the trees were being torn up, and the Chapel and
house rocked. There was no coffin nor pall, nor any sign of
mourning ; and it seemed to Inglesant that he was present at
the celebration of some obyte, or anniversary of the death of
one long departed, over whom a wild and ghostly lamentation
was made by beings no longer of the earth. An inexpressible
dread and sorrow lay upon him — an overwhelming dread, as
if the final Reckoning were near at hand, and all hope taken
away — sorrow, as though all whom he had ever loved and

known lay before him in death, with the solemn dirge and
placebo said over them by the ghostly choir. The strain was
too intense and painful to be borne, and with a cry, he awoke.
Utterly incapable of remaining where he was, he dressed,
and went out into the gallery, and down into the courtyard.
The court was lighted by the moonlight as brightly as in his
dream for one moment, and then was totally dark from the
passing clouds flitting over the moon. All was calm and still.
A small door in the corner of the court near the Chapel was
open, and, surprised at this, Inglesant crossed over and passed
through it It led into the graveyard of the Priory outside the
Chapel, where the monks and some of the country people had
been used to bury their dead. It was walled round, but the
wall at the farther side was old and ruinous, and had partly
fallen down. As Inglesant reached the postern door, the
moon shone out brightly, and he saw, between himself and
the ruined wall, a wasted and cowled figure slowly traversing
the rows of graves. For a moment he felt a terror equal to
that of his dream, but the next the thought of the Prior flashed
upon his mind, and he crossed the graveyard and followed
silently in the track of the figure. The ghostly form reached
the opposite wall, and commenced, with some substance that
shone like fire, to draw magic figures upon the stones of one
of its most perfect parts. Placing himself in a position
evidently indicated by these geometrical figures, he carefully
observed the precise spot where his shadow was projected on
the wall before him by the moonlight, and going to this spot,
he carefully loosened and removed a stone. By this time
Inglesant was close upon him, and saw him take from within
the wall an antique glass or vial of a singular and occult shape.
As he raised it, some slight motion the other made caused him
to turn round, and at the sight of Inglesant he dropped the
magic glass upon the stone he had removed, and shattered it
to pieces. When he saw what had happened, the strange and



weird creature threw his arms above his head, and with a
piercing cry that rang again and again through the chill night
air, fell backwards senseless, and lay in the pale moonlight
white and still among the graves. Inglesant removed him
into the house, and he was restored to sense, but scarcely to
reason. He lived for more than five years, never leaving the
Priory, where Inglesant directed that all his wants should be
attended to, wandering about the gardens, and sometimes poring
over his old books, which still remained upon his shelves.
Inglesant never saw him again ; but when he died the old
man sent him his blessing, and was buried before the altar in
the Chapel, where all the Priors of the house had lain before
him ; he on whom the evil days, which they perhaps had
merited but had escaped, had fallen, and had crushed.

CHAPTER II.

RICHARD INGLESANT never, till the last few years of
his life, lived at Westacre, and visited it very seldom.
He was a successful courtier ; and at Cromwell's fall became
a servant of the King. He married, and lived entirely at the
Court. He was all his life a Catholic at heart, but conformed
outwardly to the religion of the hour. He had one son,
named after him, who was educated at Oxford, and intended
for the bar, but his father left him so considerable a fortune
that he was independent of any profession. That Richard
Inglesant left no more than he did, shows that he adhered
through life to the line of conduct we have seen him pursue at
Westacre — conduct which probably satisfied his conscience as
being rigidly exact and honest. On Henry's death he still
retained one of his places about the Court; but on King
Edward's death, being a partisan of Queen Mary's and a hearty
conformer, he became a great favourite, and held a lucrative
post. He visited Westacre more frequently, and built a stately
range of buildings on one side of the court, where formerly
the old stables and kitchen were, no doubt for his son's sake,
enlarging the garden on that side to form a terrace in front of
the new rooms. At Queen Mary's accession service was
recommenced in the Prior's Chapel, which was repaired and
fitted up afresh, and a regular priest appointed to serve it
Inglesant's name does not appear in the trials of the Protestants,
a circumstance which makes it appear probable that
he was true to the temporising policy of his youth, and kept

his zeal under good control. When Elizabeth came to
the throne, the service in the Chapel underwent some modification,
King Edward's Service Book being used. The service
then had been found so useful to the neighbours that the
parish petitioned for its continuance, and it was legally settled
as a chapelry. The priest conformed to the new order of
things, and Richard Inglesant — who at that time resided constantly
at Westacre — attended the service regularly. He
remained a Catholic, but during the first seven years of Queen
Elizabeth's reign, which were all he lived to see, the Catholics
generally came to their parish churches until forbidden by the
Pope's Bull. It remained, therefore, for his son, who was
eighteen years of age at his father's death, to declare himself;
and he conformed to the usage of the English Church. He
resided entirely at Westacre, with an occasional visit to Court,
keeping open-handed hospitality, and slightly embarrassing
the estate, though, like his father, he had only one child.
He was a favourer of the Papists, and once or twice was in
trouble on that account ; but being perfectly loyal, and a very
popular man, he was rather a favourite with the Queen, who
always noticed him when he came to Court, and was wont to
say that " the dry crust Dick Inglesant gave a Papist should
never choke him while she lived." He lived beyond the
term of years usual in his family, and died in 1629, at the age
of eighty-two, having been for the last twenty years of his life,
since the death of the Queen, entirely under the guidance of
his son, very much to his own advantage, as during those
black years for the Papists, he would most probably have
committed imprudences which might have been his ruin.
His son, whose name was Eustace, was a shrewd lawyer and
courtier. He was — much more than his father — a Papist at
heart, but he conformed strictly to the English Church, and
possessed considerable indirect influence at Court. He was
thought much of by the Catholics, who regarded him as one

of their most powerful friends. He married young, in 1593,
but he had no children by his first wife, who died in 1 6 1 o ;
and in 1620 he married again, a Catholic lady who was his
ward. With this lady he came to reside at Westacre; but
two years after, his wife died in giving birth to two boys ; and,
disgusted with the country, he left the two infants to their
grandfather's care and returned to London, visiting Westacre,
however, regularly at intervals; where, with a small number
of servants, the old gentleman, totally forgetful of his old
hospitality, and of his friends the Papists, spent his last days
with the greatest delight, in anxiously watching over his little
grandchildren. They were beautiful boys, so exactly alike
that it was impossible to tell them apart, and from their
earliest infancy so united in love to each other that they
became a proverb in the neighbourhood. The eldest was
named Eustace, after his father; but the youngest, at the entreaty
of his young mother — uttered in her faint and dying
voice, as the children lay before her during the few moments
that were given her in mercy to look at them before her eyes
were closed on these dearly purchased treasures and all other
earthly things — was named John, after her brother, a Seminary
priest of Douay, executed in England for saying mass, and
refusing the oath of supremacy.

Little need be told of the infancy of these boys : traditions
remain, as in other cases, of their likeness to each other, needing
different coloured ribbons to distinguish them ; and of the
old man's anxious doting care over them. Many a pretty
group, doubtless, they made, on warm summer afternoons, on
the shady terrace; but the old grandfather died when they
were seven years old, and slept with his father beneath the
Chapel floor. After the funeral, Eustace Inglesant had intended
taking both the children back with him to London,
but he had discovered — or fancied he had discovered — that
the youngest was sickly, and would be better for the country

air ; and therefore kept him at Westacre, when he returned to
the city with his brother. The truth appears to be that he
was a worldly, selfish man, and while fully conscious of the
advantage of an heir, he was by no means desirous of giving
himself more trouble than was necessary about either of his
children The old Priory, however, was, at this time, not a
bad place to bring up a child in, though it had been neglected
during the last ten or eleven years ; though the woods were
overgrown, and the oaks came up, in places, close to the
house ; though the Prior's fish-ponds had transformed themselves
into a large pool or lake ; though the garden was a
tangled wilderness, and centaury, wood sorrel, and sour herbs
covered the ground; though the old courtyard and the
Chapel itself were mouldering and ruinous, yet the air of the
rich vales in the north of Wiltshire is more healthy than that
of the higher downs, which are often covered with fogs when
the vales are clear, and the sky is bright and serene. It was
remarked that people lived longer in the valleys than at places
that would be supposed peculiarly healthy on the hills ; that
they sang better in the churches ; and that books and rooms
were not so damp and mouldy in the low situations as they
were in those which stood very high, with no river or marsh
near them. The fogs at times, indeed, came down into the
valleys ; and in the courtyard of the Priory dim forms had
been seen flitting through the mist, in reality the shadows of
the spectators thrown upon the mist itself, from the light of a
lanthorn. Such sights as these in such a place, so haunted
by the memories of the past, gave rise to many strange stories
to which young Inglesant listened with wonder, as he did,
also, to others of the ignis fatuus, which, called by the people
Kit of the Candlestick," used, about Michaelmas, to be very
common on the downs, and to wander down to the valleys
across the low boggy grounds — stories of its leading travellers
astray, and fascinating them. The boy grew up among such

I

strange stories, and lived, indeed, in the old world that was
gone for ever. His grandfather's dimly remembered anecdotes
were again and again recalled by others, all of the same kind,
which he heard every day. Stories of the rood in the Chapel,
of the mass wafer with its mysterious awfulness and power,
of the processions and midnight singing at the Priory. The
country was full of the scattered spoil of the monasteries ; old
and precious manuscripts were used everywhere by the schoolboys
for covering their books, and for the covers of music ;
and the glovers of Malmsbury wrapped their goods in them.
In the churchyards the yew-trees stood thick and undecayed,
scarcely grown again from the last lopping to supply bows for
the archers of the King's army. The story was common of
the Becket's path, along which he had been used to pass
when cure priest at Winterbourn, and which could be seen
through the deepest snow, or if ploughed up and sown with
corn. Indeed the path itself could be seen within a pleasant
ride across the downs from Westacre.

The boy's first instructor was the old curate of the Chapel,
who taught him his Church Catechism and his latin grammar.
This man appears to have been one of those ministers so
despised by the Puritans as " mere grammar scholars," who
knew better, how to read a homily than to make a sermon ; yet
John Inglesant learnt of him more good lessons than he did,
as he himself owned, afterwards from many popular sermons ;
and in his old age he acknowledged that he believed the only
thing that had kept him back in after years, and under great
temptations, from formally joining the communion of the
Church of Rome, was some faint prejudice, some lingering
dislike, grounded on the old man's teaching. Other teachers,
of a different kind, the child had in plenty. The old servants
who still remained in the house ; the woodsmen and charcoal
burners ; the village girls whom the housekeeper hired from
year to year at Malmsbury fair ; the old housekeeper who had

been his mother's maid, and whom the boy looked on as his
mother, and who could coax him to her lap when he was quite
a tall boy, by telling him stories of his mother ; one or two
falconers or huntsmen who lingered about the place, or watched
the woods for game for the gentry around. When he was ten
years old, in 1632, the curate of the Chapel died; and Mr.
Inglesant did not at once replace him, for reasons which will
appear presently. John led a broken scholastic life for a year,
going to school when it was fine enough to make a pleasant

walk attractive to , where the Vicar taught some boys their

grammar and latin Terence in the Church itself; and where
there was a tradition that the great antiquary, Master Camden,
Clarencieux King of Arms, coming on his survey to examine
the Church, found him, and spoke to him and his scholars.
At the end of a year, however, his father coming into the
country, arranged for him to go to school at Ashley, where he
was to stay in the house with the Vicar, a famous schoolmaster
in the west country. This gentleman, who was a delicate and
little person, and had an easy and attractive way of teaching,
was a Greek scholar and a Platonist, a Rosicrucian and a
believer in alchemy and astrology. He found in little Inglesant
an apt pupil, an apprehensive and inquisitive boy, mild of
spirit, and very susceptible of fascination, strongly given to
superstition and romance : of an inventive imagination though
not a retentive memory ; given to day dreaming, and, — what
is more often found in children than some may think, though
perhaps they could not name it, — metaphysical speculation.
The Vicar taught his boys in the hall of his Vicarage — a large
room with a porch, and armorial bearings in the stained glass
in the windows. Out of this opened a closet or parlour where
he kept his books, and in this he would sit after school was
over, writing his learned treatises, most of which he would
read to John Inglesant, some of them in latin. This, with
his readings in Plato, assisted by his eager interest, gave John,

as he grew older, a considerable acquaintance with both languages,
so that he could read most books in either of them,
and turn over the remnants of the old world learning that
still remained in the Prior's Library, with that lazy facility
which always gives a meaning, though often an incorrect one —
not always a matter of regret to an imaginative reader, as adding
a charm, and, where his own thought is happy, a beauty.
Here he imbibed that mysterious Platonic philosophy, which
seen through the reflected rays of Christianity — becomes, as
his master taught him, in some sort a foreshadowing of it, as
the innocent and heroic life of Socrates, commended and
admired by Christians as well as heathens, together with his
august death, may be thought, in some measure, to have borne
the image of Christ ; and, indeed, not without some mystery
of purpose, and preparation of men for Christianity, has been
so magnified among men. Here, too, he eagerly drank in
his master's Rosicrucian theories of spiritual existences; of
the vital congruity and three several vehicles of the soul ; the
terrestrial, in which the soul should be so trained that she may
stay as short a time as possible in the second or aerial, but
proceed at once to the third, the etherial, or celestial j " that
heavenly chariot, carrying us, in triumph, to the great happiness
of the soul of man." Of the aerial genii, and souls
separate, and of their converse with one another, and with
mankind. Of their dress, beauty, and outward form ; of their
pleasures and entertainments, from the Divinest harmony of
the higher orders, who, with voices perfectly imitating the
passionate utterance of their devout minds, melt their souls
into Divine Love, and lose themselves in joy in God ; while
all nature is transformed by them to a quintessence of crystalline
beauty by the chemical power of the spirit of nature, acting
on pure essences. Of the feasting and wild dances of
the lower and deeply lapsed, in whom some sad and fantastic
imitation of the higher orders is to be traced ; and of those

aerial wanderers to whom poetical philosophers or philosophical
poets have given the rivers and springs — the mountains
and groves ; with the Dii Tutelage of cities and countries ;
and the Lares familiars, who love the warmth of families and
the homely converse of men. These studies are but a part of
the course of which occult chemistry and the lore of the stars
form a part; and that mysterious Platonism which teaches
that Pindar's story of the Argo is only a secret recipe for the
philosopher's stone ; and which pretends that at this distance
of time the life of Priam can be read more surely in the stars
than in history.

More than three years passed in these pursuits, when
Inglesant, — now a tall, handsome, dreamy-looking boy of
fourteen, was suddenly recalled to Westacre by his father, who
had unexpectedly arrived from London. His master, who
was very fond of him, gave him many words of learned
advice ; for he expected, as proved to be the case, that his
school-days — at least as far as he was concerned, — were
ended. He concluded with these words : —

I have done my best to show you those hidden truths
which the heathen divines knew as well as we; how much
more, then, ought we to follow them, who have the light of
Christ ! Do not talk of these things, but keep them in your
heart ; hear what all men say, but follow no man : there is
nothing in the world of any value but the Divine Light, —
follow it. What it is no man can tell you ; but I have told
you many times, and you know very well it is not here nor
there, as men shall tell you, for all men say they have it who
are ignorant of its very nature. It will reveal itself when the
time shall come. If you go to the Court, as I think you will,
attach yourself wholly to the King and the Church party, the
foundations of whose power are in the Divine will. I foresee
dark clouds overhanging the Church, but let not these affright
you ; behind, the Divine Light shineth — the Light that shineth

JOHN INGLES ANT ; [chap. ii.

from the hill of God. I have taught you to clear your soul
from the mists of carnal error, but I have never told you to
act freely in this world : you are not placed here to reason (as
the sectaries and precisians do), but to obey. Remember it
is the very seal of a gentleman — to obey : remember the Divine
words of Plato, in the Crit, when Socrates was about to suffer;
how he refused, when urged, to break those laws under which
he was falsely condemned. Let those words ring in your ears
as they did in his ; so that, like the worshippers of Cybele,
who heard only the flutes, you shall hear nothing but the
voice of God, speaking to you in that rank in which He has
placed you, through those captains whom He has ordained to
the command. Whenever — and in whatever place — the Divine
Light shall appear to you, be assured it will never teach you
anything contrary to this."

There was no horse sent for John, but he was obliged to
ride in an uncomfortable manner before the serving man who
was sent to fetch him ; children, and especially younger sons,
being treated as little better than servants, and they were
indeed often tyrannised over by the latter. When he reached
Westacre, he was told his father was in one of the rooms in
the new wing of the house, and on entering, he found him in
company with three other persons. One of these was the newly
appointed curate of the Church, whom Johnny had never yet
seen ; the other was a fine, handsomely dressed man, with a
lofty, high-bred look, and in the window was a beautiful boy
of about John's own age, in the costly dress of a page.
Inglesant knew that this must be his brother Eustace; and
after humbly receiving his father's rather cold greeting, he
hastened to embrace him, and he returned the greeting with
warmth. But his father immediately presented him to the
gentleman who stood by him ; telling him that this gentleman
would probably spend some time at Westacre, and that it was
chiefly that he should attend him, that he had sent for him

home ; charging him, at the same time, to serve and obey him
implicitly, as he would his father or the King.

He is a mere country lad," he said, " very different from
his brother, but he is young, and may be useful in after days."

The gentleman looked at Johnny kindly, with a peculiar
expression which the boy had never before seen, penetrating
and alluring at the same time.

He is, as you say, Esquire, a country lad, and wants the
fine clothes of my friend the page, nevertheless he is a gallant
and gentle boy, and were he attired as finely, would not shame
you, Mr. Inglesant, more than he does. And I warrant," he
continued, " this one is good at his books."

And sitting down, he drew Johnny on his knee, and
taking from his pocket a small book, he said : " Here, my
friend, let us see how you can read in this."

It was the Phaeton of Plato, which Johnny knew nearly by
heart, and he immediately began, with almost breathless
rapidity, to construe with, here and there, considerable
freedom, till the gentleman stopped him with a laugh.
Gently, gently, my friend. I saw you were a scholar, but
not that you were a complete Platonist ! I fear your master
is one who looks more to the Divine sense than to the
grammar ! But never mind, you and I shall be much
together, and as you are so fond of Plato, you shall read him
with me. You shall go to your brother, who, if he cannot
read ' In Phaeton,' can tell you many wonderful things of
the Court and the city that no doubt you will hear very
gladly;" and letting Johnny go, he turned to his father,
saying, in an undertone, which, however, the boy heard;
The lad is apt, indeed ! more so than any of us could have
dreamt; no fitter soil, I could wager, we could have found
in England ! "

Johnny went to his brother, and they left the room
together. The two boys, — as the two children had been, —

were remarkably alike ; the more so as this likeness of form
and feature, which to a casual observer appeared exact, was
consistent with a very remarkable difference of expression and
manner — the difference being, as it were, contained in the
likeness without destroying it. Their affection for each
other, which continued through life, was something of the
same nature, arising apparently from instinct and nature,
apart from inclination. Their tastes and habits being altogether
different, they pursued their several courses quite contentedly,
without an effort to be more united, but once united,
or once recalled to each other's presence or recollection even
in the most accidental manner, they manifested a violent and
overpowering attachment to each other. On the present
occasion they wandered through the gardens and neighbourhood
of the Priory ; and as the strange gentleman had foretold,
Johnny took the greatest interest in the conversation of
his brother, whom, indeed, he both now and afterwards most
unfeignedly admired, and to whose patronage he invariably
submitted with perfect satisfaction. Eustace, who had lately
been admitted one of the junior supernumerary pages to the
King, talked incessantly of the King's state and presence
chamber, of the yeomen of the guard, of the pageants and
masques, and of banquets, triumphs, interviews, nuptials, tilts,
and tournaments ; the innumerable delights of the city ; of
the stage players, tumblers, fiddlers, innkeepers, fencers,
jugglers, dancers, mountebanks, bear-wardens ; of sweet odours
and perfumes, generous wines, the most gallant young menthe
fairest ladies, the rarest beauties the world could afford,
the costly and curious attire, exquisite music, all delights and
pleasures which, to please the senses, could possibly be devised
; galleries and terraces, rowing on the Thames, with
music, on a pleasant evening, with the goodly palaces, and the
birds singing on the banks.

All this Johnny listened to with admiration, and made

little reply to his brother's disparaging remarks on the miserable
life he had led in the country, or to his sage advice to
endeavour, by some means, to come to London to the Court.

Johnny remembered his master's counsel, and was silent
on his own pleasures and pursuits. His pleasant walks by
the brook side, pleasant shade by the sweet silver streams,
good air, and sweet smell of fine, fresh meadow flowers, his
walks among orchards, gardens, green thickets, and such-like
pleasant places, in some solitary groves between wood and
water, meditating on some delightful and pleasant subject —
he thought his brother would only ridicule these things. It
is true the next day when they went to the Avon to see an
otter hunted, Johnny occupied the foremost place for a time ;
he was known to the keepers, and to two or three gentlemen
who were at the sport, and was familiar with the terms in
tracing the mark of the otter, and following through all the
craft of the hunting, tracing the marks in the soft and moist
places to see which way the head of the chase was turned. He
carried his otter spear as well as any of the company, while the
hounds came trailing and chanting along by the river-side,
venting every tree root, every osier bed and tuft of bulrushes,
and sometimes taking to the water, and beating it like spaniels.
But as soon as the otter, escaping from the spears, was killed
by the dogs, or, having by its wonderful sagacity and craft
avoided the dogs, was killed by the spears, Eustace assumed
his superior place, coming forward to talk to the gentlemen,
who were delighted with him, while Johnny fell back into the
quiet, dreamy boy again.

The two brothers were left together for several days, their
father, with the strange gentleman — whose name Eustace told
Johnny was Hall — having departed on horseback, on a visit
to a gentleman in Gloucestershire. Eustace observed great
caution in speaking of Mr. Hall, telling Johnny he would know
all about him soon from himself. The boys passed the time
vol. 1. d

happily enough. Johnny's affection for his brother increased
every day, and withstood not only Eustace's patronage, but —
what must have been much more hard to bear — the different
way in which the servants treated the two boys. Eustace,
who, though only a few minutes older than his brother, was
the heir, was treated with great deference and respect ; which
might possibly also be owing to his being a stranger and to his
Court breeding. Johnny, on the contrary, though he was
quite as tall as his brother, they treated like a child : the
housekeeper took him up to bed when it pleased her ; the old
butler would have caned him without hesitation had he
thought he deserved it ; and the maids alternately petted and
scolded him, the first of which was more disagreeable to him
than the last. The hard condition of children, and especially
of younger brothers, is a common theme of the writers of the
periods and Johnny's experience was not different from that of
others. His disposition, however, was not injured by it,
though it may have made him still fonder of retirement and
of day-dreaming than he would have been. This hard discipline
made him resolve to be silent on those wonderful
secrets and the learning that his master had taught him,
and to meditate increasingly upon them in his heart. He
delighted more and more in wandering by the riverside,
building castles in the air, and acting an infinite variety of
parts. When his brother left him, this became still more
delightful to him, and but for other influences he might have
gone on in this fascinating habit till he realised Burton's
terrible description, and from finding these contemplations and
fantastical conceits so delightful at first, might have become
the slave of vain and unreal fancies, which may be as terrible
and dismal as pleasing and delightful.

After about a fortnight's absence, Mr. Inglesant and Mr.
Hall returned from their visit, or visits, for they appeared to
have stayed at several places \ and the next day Eustace and

his father departed for London. His father displayed more
affection than usual on leaving Johnny behind him, assuring
him of his love, and that if he heard a good account of him
from Mr. Hall, he should come up to London and see the
Court. Eustace's grief at losing his brother again was much
lessened by his joy at returning to his congenial life in London ;
but Johnny watched him from the old gatehouse in front of
the Priory with a sad heart.

While he is standing looking after his father and brother, as
they ride up the hill by the same path which the Prior came
down that fine summer morning long years before, we will take
a moment's time to explain certain events of which he was perfectly
ignorant, but which were about to close about him and
involve him in a labyrinth from which he may have been said
never to have issued during his life. We call ourselves free
agents ; — was this slight, delicate boy a free agent, with a mind
and spirit so susceptible, that the least breath affected them :
around whom the throng of national contention was about to
close; on whom the intrigue of a great religious party was
about to seize, involving him in a whirlpool and rapid current
of party strife and religious rancour? Must not the
utmost that can be hoped, — that can be even rationally wished
for — be, that by the blessing of the Divine guidance, he maybe
able to direct his path a little towards the Light ?

The laws oppressing the Roman Catholics, which had been
stringently enforced during the greater part of James's reign,
had been considerably relaxed when he was negotiating with
the Spaniards for the marriage of his son, and again on King
Charles's marriage with Henrietta Maria of France. From that
time greater and greater leniency was shown them, not only by
the exertion of Catholic influence at Court, but also through
Puritan jealousy; the juries refusing to punish Popish recusants,
because Puritan separatists were included in the lists.
Spasmodic exertions of severity were made from time to time

by the King and the Church party ; but, on the whole, the
Papists enjoyed more and more liberty, especially between
1630 and 1640. Advantage was taken by the party of this
freedom to the fullest extent ; money was amassed abroad, an
army of missionary priests poured into England, agents were
sent from the Pope, and every effort made in every part of
England to gain converts, and confirm uncertain members.
Many Papists who had conformed to the authority of the
English Church beginning to entertain hopes of the ultimate
success of the old religion, fell away and became recusants —
that is, ceased to attend their Parish Church. Mr. Inglesant,
who — through all his life — had watched the progress of affairs
with a careful and far-reaching penetration, had, from the first,
been in communication with chiefs of the popish party ; but
he was far too important a friend where he was to allow of
any change in his behaviour, and he still rigidly conformed to
the Established Church. The Roman Catholics were divided
into two parties, holding two opinions, which, under different
aspects, actuate all religious parties at the present day. The
one viewed the English Church and its leader Archbishop
Laud with hatred, regarding him, and doubtless with great
truth, as their most formidable opponent, as occupying a place
in the country and in the allegiance of the majority of Englishmen
which otherwise could only have been filled by the older
Church : the other looking more at the resemblances between
the two Churches, held the opinion that little was needed to
bring the Established Church into communion and submission
to the Papal See, and by that means, at once, and without
trouble, restore the papal authority in England. The efforts
of this party were of a more political nature than those of the
other ; they endeavoured to win over Archbishop Laud to a
conference, and a Cardinal's hat was offered to him more than
once. To this party Mr. Inglesant belonged. Occupying a
neutral position himself, and possessed of the confidence of

members of both Churches, he was peculiarly fitted for such
negotiations, and was in constant communication with those
Churchmen, very numerous at Court, and among the clergy and
the country gentry, who were favourably disposed to the Papists,
though at the same time sincere members of their own Church.
The value of emissaries possessing in this way the confidence
of Church people and Papists alike was so obvious, that Mr.
Inglesant and his friends did all they could to add to their
number, especially as they were not very easy to procure, great
jealousy existing, among nearly all Church people, of any foreign
or armed interference in England on the part of the Romanists,
who were always suspected of such intentions. Mr. Inglesant,
therefore, whom nothing escaped, had marked out his younger
son's temperament as one peculiarly fitted to be trained for
such a purpose, and had communicated this idea to his intimate
associate among the Papists, Father Sancta Clara, as he was
called, of an English family named St Clare, a Jesuit missionary
priest who travelled in England under the name of Mr. Hall.
The latter was a man of great influence, unbounded devotion
to his order, and unflinching courage ; a profound scholar, and,
according to the knowledge of that day, a man of science,
trained, indeed, in every variety of human learning, and taking
advantage of every scrap of knowledge and information for
the advancement of his purpose. Of elegant and fascinating
manners, and accustomed to courtly life abroad, he was, perhaps,
the most influential agent among the thousand mission
priests at that time scattered through England. His time, of
course, was fully taken up with his difficult embassy, but he
was interested in the account Inglesant gave of his son ; and the
idea of training him to such usefulness in three or four years'
time, when their plans might be expected to be ripe, commended
itself exceedingly to his peculiar genius and habit of mind.
He was at this time Superior over part of the south-west of
England, and was much engaged among the gentry in those

parts — a position of peculiar difficulty, as the people of the
greater part of that district were strongly Puritan, and the
gentry hostile to Rome. So secluded and convenient a position
as Westacre Priory was exactly adapted to aid him in his
mission, and he resolved to take up his quarters there, from
whence he could, with great hopes of escaping observation,
continue his work in the adjoining country. Mr. Inglesant,
with an eye to such a contingency, had purposely omitted to
appoint a chaplain at the Priory for some time, and now

nominated a Mr. , a graduate of Oxford, a man who was

ex animo " a Papist, and who only waited a suitable time to
declare himself one. The number of such men was very great,
and they were kept in the English Church only by the High
Church doctrines and ceremonies introduced by Archbishop
Laud j affording one out of numberless parallels between that
age and the present. It is perhaps not necessary to say more
in this place to explain the presence of Mr. Hall (otherwise
Father Sancta Clara) at Westacre, nor the future that lay before
Johnny Inglesant as he stood by the gatehouse of the old Priory
looking after his father and Eustace as they rode up the hill.

CHAPTER III.

FATHER SANCTA CLARA was obliged to remain quiet
at Westacre for some time, and devoted himself entirely
to gaining an influence over Johnny. Of course in this he
was entirely successful There was a good library, for that
day, at the Priory; the Prior's old books were still on the
shelves, and Richard Inglesant, who we have seen was a
scholar, added largely to them, bringing all his books into the
country when he came to live at Westacre. The difference
between Johnny's former master and this present one was that
between a theorist and dreamer and a statesman and man of
the world and critical student of human nature. The Father
made Johnny read with him every day, and by his wealth of
learning and acquaintance with men and foreign countries,
made the reading interesting in the highest degree. In this
way he read the classics, making them not dead school books,
but the most human utterances that living men ever spoke ;
and while from these he drew illustrations of human life when
reading Plato — which he did every day — he led his pupil to
perceive, as he did more fully when he grew older, that wonderful
insight into the spiritual life and spiritual distinctions
which even Christianity has failed to surpass. He led him,
step by step, through that noble resolve by which Socrates —
at frightful odds, and with all ordinary experience against him —
maintains the advantage to be derived from truth ; he pointed
out to him the three different elements to be found in Plato :
the Socratic or negative argument, simply overthrowing received

opinion ; the pseudo-scientific, to which Plato was liable from
the condition of knowledge in his day; and, finally, the
exalted flight of the transcendental reason, which, leaving
alike the scepticism of the negative argument and the dreams
of false science, flies aloft into the pure ether of the heavenly
life. He read to him Aristophanes, pointing out in him the
opposing powers which were at work in the Hellenic life as in
the life of every civilised age. He did not conceal from him
the amount of right there is on the popular side of plain
common sense, nor the soundness of that fear which hesitates
to overthrow the popular forms of truth, time-honoured and
revealed, which have become in the eyes of the majority, however
imperfect they may really be, the truth itself. Nor did
he fail to show him the unsuitability of the Socratic argument
to the masses of the people, who will stop at the negative part,
and fail of the ethereal flight beyond ; and he showed him
how it might be possible, and even the best thing for mankind,
that Socrates should die, though Socrates at that
moment was the noblest of mankind : as, afterwards, though
for a different reason, it was expedient that a nobler than
Socrates should die for the people, — nobler, that is, in that he
did what Socrates failed in doing, and carried the lowest of
the people with him to the ethereal gates. And in this entering
into sympathy with the struggle of humanity, he prepared
his pupil to receive in after years (for it is a lesson that cannot
be fully learned until middle life is approached) that kindly
love of humanity ; that sympathy with its smallest interests ;
that toleration of its errors, and of its conflicting opinions ;
that interest in local and familiar affairs, in which the highest
culture is at one with the unlearned rustic mind.

The boy drank in all this with the greatest aptitude, and
would have listened all day, but his tutor insisted on his taking
his full amount of exercise, and himself commanded his admiration
as much by skill in the sports of the field as by learning.

He made no effort to draw his mind away from the English
Church, farther than by giving him a crucifix and rosary, and
teaching him the use of them, and pointing out the beauties
of the Roman use ; he even took pains to prevent his becoming
attached to Popery, telling him that his father would not wish
him to leave the Church of England ; and though that Church
was at present in schism, it would probably soon be reunited,
and that meanwhile the difference was unimportant and slight.
He knew, indeed, that from the excitable and enthusiastic
nature of his pupil, if he once became attached strongly to
Roman theology, all his use as a mediator between the two
parties would at once be lost ; and he therefore contented
himself with securing his own influence over Johnny ; which
he accomplished to the most unlimited extent.

After certain preparations had been made, and some
needful precautions taken, a great change took place in the
life at Westacre Priory. Strangers were constantly arriving,
stayed a few hours, and departed, mostly coming in the night,
and leaving, also, after sunset. Several, however, remained a
longer time, and took great pains to conceal themselves. They
all had long interviews with the Father. Services were also
performed in the Chapel, frequently in Latin. It was death
to say mass in England, except in the Queen's Chapels at St.
James's, at Somerset House, and at Woodstock, nevertheless
mass was said in all parts of England, and it was said at
Westacre. One night, after Johnny had been asleep for some
hours, he was awakened by Father St. Clare, who told him
to dress himself and come with him, and, at the same time,
charged him never to tell any one what he might be about to
see — an injunction which the boy would have died rather than
disobey. The long streaks of the summer dawn stretched
across the sky before them as they crossed the courtyard
towards the Chapel, and the roofs stood out sharp and distinct
in the dim, chill air. The Chapel was lighted, and on the

white cloth of the altar were tapers and flowers. Half awake
in the sweet fresh morning air, Johnny knelt on the cold flagstones
of the Chapel and saw the mass. Strangers who had
come to the Priory on purpose were present, and some gentlemen
of the neighbourhood whom Johnny knew. It is strange
that the Jesuit should have placed so much trust in the prudence
and fidelity of a boy ; but he probably knew his pupil, and
certainly had no cause to repent. This was not the only time
mass was said ; for one winter night — or rather morning — an
old peasant known in the neighbourhood as Father Wade had
been to Marlborough wake, and being benighted, bethought
himself of asking a lodging at the Priory, and approached it
by a pathway from the east, which, crossing the meadows beyond
the Chapel, came round to the gatehouse at the front. He,
however, never reached the gate, and being found at home the
next day, and questioned as to where he passed the night, he
was at first evasive in his replies, but on being pressed, told
a mysterious story of strange lights and shapes of men he had
seen about the Priory ; and approaching — he said — fearfully
along the path, there, sure enough ! were the old monks passing
up in procession from the graveyard through the wall into the
Chapel, as through a door ; and he heard the long-remembered
chanting of the mass, and saw the tapers shining through the
east window, as he had seen them when a little boy.

This manner of life went on for about a year, at the end
of which time Father St. Clare's absences became more
frequent, and Johnny was left much alone. The Father's
mission in the west of England was not prospering, for the
very simple reason that he was too good for the work. As
far as the duties of a Superior went, everything was satisfactory.
The country was mapped out in districts, and emissaries
were appointed to each ; but for the peculiar mission of Father
St. Clare — that of personal influence — there was no scope.
It was the habit of the Jesuits, by the charms of their conversation

and learning, by their philosophical theories, and in
some cases by their original systems of science, to gain the
confidence and intimacy of the highest both in station and
intellect. And for this seed to spring up, there must be first
a suitable soil for it to be sown in, and this soil was particularly
scarce in Wiltshire. All the refinement and learning of
Father St. Clare was thrown away upon the country squires ;
any boon companion would have influenced them quite as
well. Becoming conscious of this, the Jesuit rode frequently
to London, where work which required the highest skill and
talent was going on ; and in his absence Johnny w r as left very
much to his own devices. During one of these absences a
priest who had remained concealed several days at the
Priory, and who had taken a fancy to the boy, gave him at
parting, a little book, telling him to read it carefully, and it
would be of use to him through life. It w r as entitled, " The
Flaming Heart, or the Life of St. Theresa," of which a later
edition, printed in 1642, was dedicated to Henrietta Maria.
It opened a new world of thought to Johnny, w r ho was now
sixteen years of age, and he read it many times from beginning
to end. A great deal of it was so strange to Inglesant,
that he was repelled by it The exaggeration of the duty of
self-denial, the grotesque humility, the self denunciation for
the most trifling faults, — most of the details indeed appeared
to him either absurd or untrue ; but, running through all the
book, the great doctrine of Divine Illumination fascinated
him. The sublime but mysterious way of devotion pointed
out in it, while quite different from anything he had previously
heard of, was still sufficiently in accordance with the romantic
habit of his mind, and with the mystic philosophy in which
his old master had trained him, to cause him to follow it
with an eager sympathy. The natural and inspired writings
of the great mystics, indeed, breathe a celestial purity, entirely
distinct from those of their inferior disciples, who brought

down their spiritual system to earth and earthly purposes.
The rest from individual effort, the calm after long striving,
the secret joy in God, the' acquiescing in His will, in which
the true elevation of devotion lies, and which is not the effect
of lively imaginations or of fruitful inventions — of these, all
men are not capable, but all may reach the silent and humble
adoration of God which arises out of a pure and quiet mind,
just as when a man enters into an entire friendship with
another ; then the single thought of his friend affects him more
tenderly than all that variety of reflections which may arise
in his mind where this union is not felt. This inward calm
and quiet in which men may in silence form acts of faith and
feel those inward motions and directions which, as this book
taught, follow all those who rise up to this elevation, and
which lead them onward through the devious paths of this
life, — what must this be but the Divine Light of which his old
master had so often told him he was ignorant, but whose
certain coming he had led him constantly to expect? Enticed
by such thoughts as these, he passed the days, hardly
knowing what he did ; and wandered in this perplexed
labyrinth without a guide. Without a guide ! but this book
of his told him of a guide — a spiritual guide ! — nay, even
recommended obedience and entire submission to this director;
and dissuaded from self-confidence. Where, then, was
this guide, to whom, in the midst of such spiritual light and
life, and after such ecstatic visions, he should turn ? The
book said it was the priest — any priest would do — but still it
was the priest. This seemed to John Inglesant, whose perceptions
the Jesuit had sharpened, but whose unrestrained
romance he had not crushed, to be very different from that
Divine Light of which his master spoke, from that transcendental
voice of the Platonic Reason speaking in the silence
of the soul ; nay, it seemed to him to be a fall even from the
teaching of the book itself. Meditating on these things,

Johnny thought he would visit his old master, to see what he
had to say about this new doctrine.

It was a fine summer morning when he made the visit ;
he had a horse of his own now, and a servant if he chose,

but he preferred to-day to go alone. He found Mr.

had discontinued his school, and was entirely buried in his
books ; only reading morning and evening prayers, and a
homily, or one of his old sermons in the Church on Sundays.
He never left his study on other days, except for a turn in his
little garden. His house was by the wayside, with a small
paved court before the hall ; and by the side of this court, the
garden, into which the window of the study, in a gabled
wing adjoining the hall, looked towards the road. He was
pleased to see Inglesant, though he very dimly remembered
him, and questioned him of his studies. Johnny read him
some Plato with the Jesuit's comments, of which the old
gentleman took notes eagerly, and afterwards incorporated
them in his book. The book he was writing was upon Talismanic
figures, but he was not particular what he put into it ;
anything of an occult and romantic character being welcome,
and introduced with not a little ingenuity. He had no sense
nor understanding of anything else in the world but such subjects
and his books ; and being exceedingly infirm, he could
scarcely lift some of the larger folios which lay heaped about
him within reach. He blessed God that his eyesight was so
good, and that he could still read Greek — the contracted
Greek type of that day. After some conversation, Inglesant
opened his mind to him, told him what he had been reading, and
asked his opinion. The old scholar pricked up his ears, and
set to work with great delight, taking notes all the time ; and
Johnny found, years afterwards, when he happened to read his
book in London, that all he told him was introduced into it.

I find nothing, my dear pupil," he said, " in the Christian
Church, very old, concerning this doctrine — for that

author who goes by the name of Dionysius the Areopagite is
of far later date — but I will discover to you some mysteries
concerning it, which, so far as I know, have never been
brought to light by any man. I find the germ of this doctrine
in those fragments of metaphysics which go under Theophrastus,
his name ; who was a disciple of Aristotle, and succeeded
him in his school ; and was an excellent philosopher,
certainly, by the works by him which remain to this day.
Here he says that the understanding joined to the body, can
do nothing without the senses, which help it as far as they
can to distinguish sensible things from their first causes, but
that all knowledge and contemplation of the first causes must
be by very touching and feeling of the mind and soul ; which
knowledge, thus gained, is not liable to error. Synesius, a
man well known amongst scholars, being vexed that this new
divinity began in his day to be in request amongst Christians ;
and some illiterate monks and others taking advantage of it
to magnify ignorance, to bring themselves into repute ; —
Synesius, I say, wrote that exquisite treatise, which he inscribed
' Dio,' to prove the necessity of human learning and
philosophy to all who will contemplate high things with
sobriety and good success. ' God forbid,' he says, ' that we
should think that if God dwell in us, He should dwell in any
other part of us than that which is rational, which is His own
proper temple.'

"Now whether the writings of some ancient and later
Platonistss, Greeks and Arabs, Heathens and Mahometan bea
sufficient ground and warrant for them that profess to
ascribe more to the Scriptures, by which sobriety of sense is so
much commended unto us, than to the opinions of heathen
philosophers, I leave you to consider."

Then Inglesant left him, for he seemed more desirous to
put ideas into his book than to impart them, and rode home
across the downs. As he went, he overtook a gentleman riding

an easy-going palfrey, whom he found to be one whom he
knew ; one, indeed, of those who had attended the early morning
mass in the ChapeL This gentleman, who was one of
those called Church Papists, that is, Papists who saved themselves
from the charge of recusancy by sometimes attending
their Parish Church, knowing Johnny, and placing faith in him,
began at once to relate his troubles. He dwelt sadly on the
fines he had to pay, and his difficulties in avoiding the communion
at Easter ; but his greatest troubles were caused by
his wife, who was much more zealous than he was, and refused
to go to Church once a month to keep off the Church-wardens.
Her religion, indeed, was so costly to him, that he had rather
have had a city lady with her extravagant dress. He was very
particular in inquiring after Father St. Clare, and whether
Inglesant knew of anything he was engaged in ; but John could
give him no information, not knowing anything of the Jesuit's
plans. They were hard times, he said, for a good quiet subject
who wished to live at peace with his King and with his
clergyman ; but what with the fear of the apparitor on one
hand, and of his wife and her advisers among the Catholics on
the other — he had a hard time of it. He was a cheerful man
naturally, however, and leaving this discourse, which he thought
would tire his companion, he entertained him for some time
with the news of the country, of which he gathered great
abundance in his rides. Among other things, he told him of
a clergyman at a parish not far off, who, he said, must be a
Catholic in his heart, for his piety was so great and his punctuality
in reading common prayer, morning and evening in the
Church alone in his surplice so regular, that — so the common
report ran — he had brought down an angel from heaven, who
appeared to him in the Church one evening, in the glow of the
setting sun, and told him many wonderful and heavenly things.
When the gentleman had related this, they came to the point
where their roads parted, and he invited Johnny — for he was

very courteous — to come on to his house, and sup with him.
To this Inglesant consented, visits being a rare pleasure to him,
and they rode together to the gentleman's house, which stood
on the edge of the downs, with a courtyard and gatehouse
before it, and at the back a fair hall and parlour, having a wide
prospect over the valley and the distant view. Johnny was
courteously received by the popish lady and her sister, who
was devout and very pretty. The supper would have been
very plain — the day being a fast — but the gentleman insisted
on waiting while a rabbit was cooked for his friend ; and when
it came, he partook of it himself, in spite of his wife's remonstrances
— out of courtesy to his guest, he said, and also to
enable him to get over his next fine, which, he said, it ought
to do. The ladies asked John Inglesant many questions about
the Father, and what took place at the Priory ; also about his
brother the Page. This made him leave early, for though he
knew nothing of any plots or treason, he was constantly afraid
of saying something he ought not to do ; nothing was said,
however, about the morning mass, which was too serious a
matter to be lightly spoken of.

As he rode away through the soft evening light, he thought
so much of the story the gentleman had told him, that he made
up his mind to ride to the village and see the clergyman whose
goodness was so manifest and so rewarded. He, surely — if no
one else could — would show him the true path of Devotion.

Two or three days afterwards he took the ride, and arrived
at the small old Church at a very opportune moment, for the
clergyman in his surplice was just going into it to read the
evening prayers. Inglesant attended devoutly, being the only
person present ; for the sexton's wife, who rang the bell, did
not consider that her duty extended farther. Prayers being
over, the parson invited Johnny to supper — a much better one
than he had had at the Papist's — and Inglesant stated his difficulties
to him, and asked his advice. The Parson showed him

several small books which he had written ; one on bowing and
taking off the hat at the name of Jesus ; another on the cross
in baptism, and kneeling at the communion ; a third on turning
to the east, which last appeared to be mostly quotations and
enlargements from Dr. Donne ; a fourth on the use of the
surplice. He repudiated being popishly inclined ; having disproved,
he said, that any of these practices were popish, in
all his books, all of which, as far as Johnny could see, displayed
considerable ingenuity ; and while he inserted many trivial and
weak passages, he seemed to have been well read in the Fathers
and other old authors, and to have been a loyal, honest, and
zealous advocate, according to his capacity, of the Church of
England. He evidently looked on forms and ceremonies with
the greatest reverence, and was totally incapable of telling his
visitor anything of that mystical life he was so anxious to
realise. Johnny inquired about the angel, but his host, while
not appearing displeased at the reports being spread abroad,
professed to deny all knowledge of it, but in such a way as to
make Inglesant think he would like to have acknowledged it,
had he dared. He rode away disappointed, and began to think
he must consult Father St. Clare ; which, for some reason or
other he had felt a disinclination to do.

While he was in this perplexity, he bethought himself of his
first schoolmaster, the man who taught in the Church where
Camden visited him. He had forgotten all about this man,
except that he was of a mild and kind nature ; but he was so
anxious for direction that he went to him at once. This man
had been very poor, and brought up a large family, all of whom,
however, he had put forward in life, some at the University and
the Church, and some among the clothiers and glove-makers at
Malmsbury and the other towns of Wiltshire. Johnny found
him living alone — for his wife was dead — in a small cottage
no better than a countryman's, with a few books, which with
his garden were all the wealth he possessed. He was a great
vol. 1. e

herbalist, and famous in the country for his cures and for his
sermons, though no two people could agree why they admired
the latter ; all uniting in considering him a simple and rather
poor preacher. This Inglesant learnt from a countryman who
walked at his horse's side as he came near the village; but
when he found the old gentleman sitting on a bench before his
study window, and he rose and met his look, Inglesant saw at
once — thanks to the cultivation of his perception by the
Jesuit's teaching — what it was that gained him the people's love.
He had large and melting eyes that looked straight into the
hearts of those who met him, as though eager to help them and
do them good. He received Johnny with great kindness,
though he had quite forgotten him, and did not even remember
when he told him who he was. But when Inglesant, who found
it very easy to speak to him of what had brought him there,
told him of his difficulties, he listened with the greatest interest
and sympathy. When he had finished speaking, he remained
some minutes silent, looking across the garden where the hot
mid-day air was playing above the flowers.

You have been speaking," he said at length, " of very
high and wonderful things, into which, it would seem, even
the angels dare not look ; for we are, as would appear, taught
in Scripture that it is in man's history that they see the workings
of Divine Glory. And indeed, worthy Mr. Inglesant,
when you have lived to the limit of my many years, you will
not stumble at this ; nor think this life a low and poor place
in which to seek the Divine Master walking to and fro. These
high matters of which you speak, and this heavenly life, is
not to be disbelieved, only it seems to me — more and more
that the soul or spirit of every man in passing through life
among familiar things is among supernatural things always,
and many things seem to me miraculous, which men think
nothing of, such as memory, by which we live again in place
and time — and of which, if I remember rightly, for I am a

**

very poor scholar, you doubtless know, St. Augustine says
many pertinent things — and the love of one another, by which
cesare led out of ourselves, and made to act against our own
nature by that of another, or, rather, by a higher nature than
that of any of us ; and a thousand fancies and feelings which
have no adequate cause among outward things. Here, in this
book which I was reading when you so kindly came to seeme,
are withered flowers, which I have gathered in my rambles,
and keep as friends and companions of pleasant places, streams
and meadows, and of some who have been with me, and now
are not. There is one, this single yellow flower — it is a tormenting,
which is good against the plague — what is it, that,
as I hold it, makes me think of it as I do ? Faded flowers
have something, to me, miraculous and supernatural about
them j though, in fact, it is nothing wonderful that the texture
of a flower being dried survives. It is not in the flower, but in
our immortal spirit that the miracle is. All these delightful
thoughts that come into my mind when I look at this flower
thoughts, and fancies, and memories — what are they but the
result of the alchemy of the immortal spirit, which takes all
the pleasant, fragile things of life, and transmutes them into
immortality in our own nature ! And if the poor spirit and
intellect of man can do this, how much more may the supreme
creative intellect mould and form all things, and bring the
presence of the supernatural face to face with us in our daily
walk ! Earth becomes to us, if we thus think, nothing but
the garden of the Lord, and every fellow-being we meet and
see in it, a beautiful and invited guest; and, as I think I
remember, many of the heathen poets, after their manner, have
said very fine things about this j that we should rise cheerfully
from this life, as a grateful guest rises from an abundant feast ;
and though doubtless they were very dark and mistaken, yet
I confess they always seemed to me to have something of a
close and entire fellowship with the wants of men, which I

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUftOi

think the Saviour would have approved. If you, sir, can
receive this mystery, and go through the honourable path of
life which lies before you, looking upon yourself as an immortal
spirit walking among supernatural things — for the natural
things of this life would be nothing were they not moved and
animated by the efficacy of that which is above nature — I
think you may find this doctrine a light which will guide your
feet in dark places ; and it would seem, unless I am mistaken,
that this habit of mind is very likely to lead to the blessedness
of the Beatific Vision of God, on the quest of which you have
happily entered so young : for surely it should lead to that
state to which this vision is promised — the state of those who
are Pure in Heart. For if it be true, that the reason we see
not God is the grossness of this tabernacle wherein the soul
is encased, then the more and the oftener we recognise the
supernatural in our ordinary life, and not only expect and find
it in those rare and short moments of devotion and prayer,
the more, surely, the rays of the Divine Light will shine through
the dark glass of this outward form of life, and the more our
own spirit will be enlightened and purified by it, until we
come to that likeness to the Divine Nature, and that purity
of heart to which a share of the Beatific Vision is promised,
and which, as some teach, can be attained by being abstract
from the body and the bodily life. As we see every day that
the supernatural in some men gives a particular brightness of
air to the countenance, and makes the face to shine with an
inimitable lustre, and if it be true that in the life to come we
shall have to see through a body and a glass however transparent,
we may well practise our eyes by making this life
spiritual, as we shall have also to strive to do in that to which
we go. My predecessor in this living, doubtless a very worthy
man (for I knew him not), has left it recorded on his tombstone
— as I will show you if you will come into the Church —
that he was ' full of cares and full of years, of neither weary,

but full of hope and of heaven. 5 I should desire that it maybe
faithfully recorded of me that I was the same ! "

John went with him into the Church, and read the old
vicar's epitaph, and several more — for he was very much taken
with the old gentleman's talk, and indeed stayed with him the
whole day : his host adding a dish of eggs and a glass of small
beer to his daily very frugal meal. Johnny invited him to
come to the Priory, and so left him, more pleased and satisfied
with this than with any of his other visits. As he rode back
through the darkening valley, and through the oak wood before
the Priory gate, he little thought that not only should he not
see the old Parson again, but that his quiet contemplative life
was come to an end, and his speculations would now be chased
away by a life of action ; and for the future the decision, often
to be made at once, as to what he ought to do, would appear
of more consequence than that other decision, which had
seemed to him, sometimes, the only important one, as to what
it was right to think

"When he reached the Priory, he found the Jesuit had
returned, and when at supper he inquired of Johnny if his
ride had been a pleasant one, as the servant had told him he
had been out since the morning, Johnny began at once, and
told him all that had been passing in his mind since the priest
had given him the book, and of all the directors he had sought
for his guidance. Father St. Clare listened (though it may be
doubted whether the recital was altogether agreeable to him)
with great attention, and seemed pleased and amused at the
boy's descriptions, which showed his pupil's fine perception of
character.

You have taken a wise course," he said, " which has led
you to see much of the workings of the minds of men : this is
the most useful study you can follow, and the most harmless
to yourself, if you keep your own counsel, and gain knowledge
without imparting it. I am glad you have told me all this,

because it shows me I have not been deceived in you, but
that the time is fully ripe for you to play the part your father
and I have destined for you, and to play it — to great extent —
alone. The day after tomorrow we shall go up to London ;
on the way, I will open to you the position of parties, the
crisis of affairs — a position and a crisis such as never was
before in this or any other country ! You are very young, but
you are years older in mind than most of your age, and your
youth renders you all the more fit for the work I have for you
to do. I trust you without reserve ; I shall commit to your
keeping secrets which would, if revealed, bring the highest
heads in England, not to speak of my own, to the block. I
have no fear of you."

Inglesant listened breathlessly and with open eyes to this
address. It made his heart beat high with delight and excitement.
Death — nay, the bitterest torture — would be nothing
to him, if only he could win this man's approval, and be not
only true but successful in his trust. His entire devotion to
the Jesuit cannot be looked upon as anything wonderful, for
the whole mental power of the latter, directed by the nicest
art — a power and an art at that time not surpassed in Europe
had been directed to this end upon the boy's susceptible
nature, and the result could not be doubtfuL

The Jesuit might well say that the crisis was imminent,
and the position of affairs peculiar. Plotters were at work in
all directions, and for different ends ; but the schemes of all
miscarried, and the expectations of all proved to be miscalculations
: those of the Roman Catholics — with whom St. Clare
was associated — more than all. Their expectations were at
the highest pitch. The Court influence was with them to a
large extent. The Church of England was at its highest
summit of glory and power, and its standing-point was almost
their own. Laud was partly gained. He had refused a
cardinal's hat ; but in such a way that the offer was immediately

renewed, and remained open. It seemed, indeed, as
though little more remained to do, when this goodly edifice
began to crumble, slowly, indeed, but surely, and with accelerating
speed. A new power appeared in the country ; hostile,
indeed, to Catholicism, but, what was much worse, also slightly
contemptuous of it, directing its full force against the Church
and the Crown. The Church collapsed with wonderful suddenness
j and the Crown was compelled to seek its own preservation,
extending what little aid it might be able to render
to the Church ; neither had the least power or time to give to
the assistance of their former allies. All this had not happened
when the Jesuit and Johnny rode up to London, but it was
foreshadowed clearly in the immediate future.

CHAPTER IV.

FATHER ST. CLARE and Johnny set out the next day,
accompanied by two servants on horseback. The road
was quite new to Inglesant after they left Malmsbury ; and he
was greatly delighted and amused with all he saw. The fair
landscapes, the prospects of goodly cities with the towers and
spires of their Churches rising into the clear smokeless air ; the
stately houses and gardens, the life of the country villages, the
fairs and markets, strolling players, the morris dancing, the
drinking and smoking parties, the conjurors and mountebanks,
peasants quarrelling " together by the ears," and buying and
selling; wandering beggars, and half-witted people called
Tom o' Bedlam " who were a recognised order of mendicants
— everything amused and delighted him, especially with
his companion's witty and penetrating comments upon all they
met with.

At Windsor they walked on the terrace, from which
Johnny saw the view, which was then considered only second
to that of Greenwich, of the river and many pleasant hills and
valleys, villages and fair houses, far and near. As they rode
along, at every suitable opportunity, and at night after supper
at the inns, the Jesuit explained to Johnny the position of
public affairs. He told him that though the power of the
King and the Archbishop was apparently at its greatest height,
as the trial and condemnation of Laud's traducers, Prynne,
Berwick, and Burton had just been decided, and the trial of
Hampden for refusal to pay ship-money was about to commence,

yet nevertheless, the impossibility of governing without
a Parliament was becoming so evident, and the violent and
aggressive temper of the people was so marked, that he, and
those like him, who possessed the best information of what
was passing throughout all classes, and among all parties, however
secret, considered that changes of a very remarkable character
were imminent. The temper of the people, he said,
was the more remarkable, because in the one case, libellers
like Prynne would have been put to death without mercy in
either of the preceding reigns, and no notice taken by the
people ; and the tax, called ship's money, was so light and so
fairly levied, as to be scarcely felt. The Archbishop, he said,
was determined to force the service book upon the Scots ; a
most unwise and perilous proceeding at the present moment,
and he was informed by the emissary priests then in the north
of England and Scotland, that the resistance to it would be
determined, and that the Scottish malcontents were supported
by the Puritan party in the English Parliament. Under these
circumstances, he explained to Johnny, that a change had
taken place in the policy of some of the Roman Catholic
party, who had formerly acted with Mr. Inglesant and Father
St. Clare, and they had arrived at the conclusion that the
Church of England was no longer worth the pains of humouring
and conciliating. The Queen had been advised to attempt
the perversion of the Parliamentary leaders, and several of the
Catholic plotters had undertaken a similar enterprise. Father
St. Clare told Johnny candidly, that he neither sympathised
entirely with these views nor altogether with those of the party
to which he had hitherto belonged. On the one hand, he had
arrived at the conclusion that Laud was a true servant of the
Church of England, and would never consent to submission
to Rome, except on terms which could not be granted, but on
the other, he had so long regarded the Church as the natural
ally of Rome, and the uselessness of attempting to win over

the Puritans was so apparent that he had not entered warmly
into these new schemes. He, however, was inclined to think
that were a change to take place, and the Puritan party to
gain the supreme power in the State, the reaction among the
upper classes would be so great, that the Romish faith would
gain numberless converts. He finally pressed upon Johnny
the necessity of great prudence, telling him that he should be
immediately placed about the person of the Queen as one of
her pages ; and, as soon as possible, transferred to the King's
service in as high a post as the influence to be exerted could
command, in order that he should possess as much influence
as possible : that in the meantime his business would be simply
to become acquainted with as many of all parties as he possibly
could, and to gain their confidence, opportunities for
doing which should be given him both in the assemblies he
would meet at his father's house, and in other company into
which he should be introduced. He warned him against
crediting anything he heard, unless assured of its truth by
himself — the most exaggerated reports upon every subject, he
said, prevailing in the Court and city. The conversions to
Romanism, he told him, though numerous, were nothing like
so many as were reported, as might be supposed when the
reputed ones included such men as Mr. Endymion Porter, the
most faithful servant of the King and a firm Church of England
man, though, like many others, entertaining very friendly
opinions of the Papists.

Conversing in this way, they entered London one afternoon
at the beginning of August 1637. Johnny, as may be supposed,
was all eyes as they entered London, which they did
by Kensington and St. James's Park. The beautiful buildings
at Kensington, and the throng of gentry and carriages in the
park astonished him beyond measure. As they passed through
the park many persons recognised Father St. Clare, but they
passed on without stopping, through the gateway by the side

of the beautiful banqueting-house into the narrow street that
led by Charing Cross and the Strand. The crowds were now
of a different kind to those they had passed in the park. They
passed several groups assembled round quack doctors and
itinerant speakers, one of whom was relating how the congregation
of a Parish Church the Sunday before had been alarmed
by an insurrection of armed Papists — stories of this kind being
then a common invention to excite and stir up the people. Atone
of these groups they were startled by hearing a man who
was selling books, announce the name as " Jesus' Worship
Confuted;" as the thing was new to the Jesuit, he stopped and
ordered one of his men to dismount and bring him one, when
it was found to be a tract against ceremonies, and especially
against bowing at the name of Jesus. They resumed their
passage down the Strand, Father St. Clare remarking on the
strange ideas a stranger would attach to the state of religion
in England if he listened only to the opposing cries. All down
the Strand the Jesuit pointed out the beautiful houses of the
nobility, and the glimpses of the river between them. They
stopped at last at Somerset House, then a large rambling
series of buildings extending round several courts with gardens
and walks on the river banks, and a handsome water-gate leading
to the river. They went to the lodgings of Father Cry,
the Queen's confessor, who was at home, and received them
hospitably. Johnny was so taken up with all the astonishing
sights around him, especially with the wonderful view up and
down the river, with the innumerable boats and barges, the
palaces and gardens, and churches and steeples on the banks,
that it was a day or two before he could talk or think calmly
of anything. The next morning the Jesuit took him to his
father's house on the north side of the Strand, where he saw
both his father and brother, it not being the latter's turn in
waiting at the Court. Mr. Inglesant was not more affectionate
to his son than usual ; he appeared anxious and worn, but he

told him he was pleased at his arrival, that he must obey
Father St. Clare in all things, and that he would become a
useful and successful man. Father St. Clare had sent for a
Court tailor, and ordered a proper dress and accoutrements
for Johnny, who was astonished at his own appearance when
attired in lace and satin, and his long hair combed and dressed.
The Jesuit regarded him with satisfaction, and told him they
were going at once to the Queen. Mr. Inglesant's coach was
sent for them, and was waiting in one of the courts ; and
entering, they were driven through London to Whitehall.

It was the third of August, and the Archbishop was
marrying the Duke of Lennox to the Lady Mary Villiers, the
daughter of the great Duke of Buckingham, in his Chapel at
Lambeth. The King was expected to go to Lambeth to be
present at the ceremony, but this was of no consequence to the
Jesuit, who wished to introduce his protege to the Queen alone.
When they reached Whitehall, however, they found that both
their Majesties had gone to the wedding, and the day being
very rainy, news had been sent from Lambeth immediately
after the ceremony that the Queen was returning, and she was
then on the water. The Jesuit and Johnny left their carriage
and went down to the water-gate. The Jesuit was evidently
well known at the Court, and way was made for him everywhere.
At that time the greatest laxity was allowed to the Catholics,
and other priests besides the Queen's confessors were tolerated
openly in London. As they reached the water-gate, the rain
had ceased for a time, and a gleam of sunlight shone upon the
river, and rested on the Queen's barge as it approached.
Johnny's heart beat with excitement, as it reached the steps
amid a nourish of trumpets, and the guard presented arms.
The Queen, splendidly dressed, came from under the awning
and up the steps, accompanied by her gentlemen and the ladies
of her Court. Johnny never forgot the sight to his dying day,
and it was doubtless one to be long remembered by those who

saw it for the first time. When the Queen was near the top of
the stairs and saw St. Clare, she stopped, and extending her
hand she welcomed him to the Court. She seemed to remember
something, and spoke to him rapidly in French, to which
he replied with the utmost deference, in the same language.
Then falling back, he indicated Johnny to the Queen, saying —
This is young John Inglesant, your Majesty, of whom I spoke
to your Grace concerning the business you wot of."

The Queen looked kindly at the boy, who indeed was
handsome enough to incline any woman in his favour.

"They are a handsome race," she said, still speaking
French ; " this one, I think, still more so than his brother."

This is a refined spirit, your Majesty," said the Jesuit, ina
low voice, " of whom I hope great things, if your Majesty
will aid."

You wish to be one of my servants, my pretty boy," said
the Queen, extending her hand to Johnny, who kissed it on
one knee ; " Father Hall will tell you what to do."

And she passed on, followed by her train, who looked at
St. Clare and the boy with curiosity, several nodding and
speaking to the Jesuit as they proceeded.

Johnny was duly entered the next day as one of the supernumerary
pages without salary, and entered upon his duties at
once, which consisted simply of waiting in anterooms and
following the Queen at a distance in her walks. This life, however,
was beyond measure interesting to Johnny : the beautiful
rooms and galleries in the palace, with their wonderful contents
were an inexhaustible source of delight to him ; especially
the King's collection of paintings which was kept in a single
apartment, and was admired over Europe. Father Hall took
him also to many gentlemen's virtuoso collections of paintings
and curiosities, where his intelligence and delight attracted the
interest and kindness of all his hosts. Father St. Clare also
gave him from time to time, small editions of the classics and

other books which he could keep in his pocket, and read in
the anterooms and galleries when he was in waiting. He would
have been astonished, if the Jesuit had not told him it would
be so, at the number of persons of all ranks and opinions in
the Court who spoke to him and endeavoured to make his
acquaintance, that they might remember him at a future time,
evidently at the request of the priest.

Shortly after he came to London he was present at the
Chapel Royal, at Whitehall, when the King took the sacrament
and presented the gold pieces coined especially for this purpose.
The sight impressed Johnny very much. The beautiful
Chapel, the high altar on which candles were burning, the
Bishops and the Dean of the Chapel in their copes, the brilliant
crowd of courtiers, the King — devout and stately — alone
before the altar, the exquisite music, and the singing of the
King's choir, which was not surpassed in Rome itself. As the
sunlight from the stained windows fell on this wonderful scene,
it is not surprising that young Inglesant was affected by it, nor
that this young spirit looking out for the first time on the world
and its surprising scenes, and pageants, and symbols, realised
the truth of what the old Parson had told him, and converted
all these sights into spiritual visions; this one in particular,
which led back his thoughts, as it was meant, to the three kings
of old, who knelt and offered gifts before the mysterious Child.

Johnny saw his brother frequently, as the latter had grown
out of his page-hood, and held another post about the Court,
which gave him much leisure. The two young courtiers were
at this time more alike than ever, and were much admired at
Court as a pair. At one of the Queen's Masques, about this
time, they acted parts somewhat similar to the brothers in
Comus, but requiring greater resemblance, as in Shakespeare's
Comedy of Errors, and both their acting and appearance was
applauded by the King himself, who began to take notice of
Johnny. Mr. Inglesant, the elder, had never been a favourite

with the King, who was aware of his leaning to Popery, and
indeed, at this time, both he and his friend the Jesuit were
very much discouraged at the aspect of affairs. The position
of the Papists had never been so good as at present, but this
very circumstance was the ruin of their party. All restraints
and reproaches of former times seemed forgotten ; a public
agent from Rome resided openly at the Court, and was magnificently
feted and caressed; the priests, though to avow
popish orders was by law punishable with death, went about
and preached openly without fear ; and it was related as a sign
of the times, that a Jesuit at Paris who was coming into
England, coolly called on the English ambassador there, who
knew his profession, offering his services in London, as though
there were no penal law to condemn him the moment he
landed ! High Mass at Somerset House was attended at noonday
by great numbers of the Papists, who returned together
from it through the streets as openly as the congregation of
the Savoy, and the neighbouring churches. Their priests succeeded
in converting several ladies of some of the greatest
families, thereby provoking the anger of their relations, and
causing them to long for their suppression. They held large
political conferences openly, and ostentatiously subscribed a
large sum of money to assist the King against the Scots.
Clarendon, indeed, says that they acted as though they had
been suborned by these latter to root out their own religion.

It would seem, indeed, that the English mind is not habituated
to plotting, and that the majority of any party are not
equal to a sustained and concealed effort. The Jesuit, Mr.
Inglesant, and the other astute members of their party perceived
with sorrow the course things were taking without
being able to remedy it. The former desisted from all active
efforts, contenting himself with assisting the Queen in her attempts
to win over members of the Parliament to her interest,
and in opposing and counteracting the intrigues of a small and

fanatical section of the Papists who were attempting a wild
and insane plot against the King and the Archbishop, which
was said to extend to even the attempting their death. As
neither of these occupations was very arduous, he had little
need of Johnny's assistance, and left him very much to himself.
Inglesant, therefore, continued the cultivation of his
acquaintance with both parties pretty much in his own way.
He had several friends whose society he much valued among
the Papists, and he frequently attended mass when not obliged
to by his attendance upon the Queen ; but he was rather more
inclined to attach himself to the members of the Laudian
and High Church party, who presented many qualities which
interested and attracted him. He read with delight the books
of this party, Dr. Donne's and Herbert's Poems, and the writings
of Andrews and Bishop Cousin's Devotions, which last was
much disliked by the Puritans, and, indeed, the course he
took could not have been more in accordance with the Jesuit's
plan of preparing him for future service, should the time ever
arrive when such usefulness should be required. In his mind
he was still devoted, though in a halting and imperfect manner,
to that pursuit of the spiritual life and purity which had
attracted him when so young, and he lost no opportunity of
consulting any on these mysterious subjects who he thought
would sympathise with his ideas. In this he had no assistance
from his brother, who was devoted to the pursuit of
pleasure — of worldly pleasure, it is true, in its most refined
aspect — but still of such pleasures as are entirely apart from
those of the soul.

One of his friends had presented Inglesant with a little
book, " Divine Considerations of those things most profitable
in our Christian profession," written in Spanish by John
Valdesso, a Papist, and translated by a gentleman of whom
Johnny heard a great deal, and was exceedingly interested in
what he heard. In this book the author says several very

high and beautiful things concerning the Spiritual life, and of
the gradual illumination of the Divine Light shed upon the
mind, as the sun breaks by degrees upon the eyes of a traveller
in the dark. But though Johnny was attracted to the
book itself, he was principally interested in it by what he heard
of the translator. This was Mr. Nicholas Ferrar, who had
founded a religious house at Little Gidding, in Huntingdonshire,
or, as it was called in the world, the " Protestant Nunnery,"
in which he lived with his mother and several nephews
and nieces, in the practice of good works and the worship of
God. Extraordinary attention had been attracted to this
establishment by the accounts of the strange and holy life of
its inmates j and still more by the notice which the King had
condescended to take of it, not only visiting it on his journey
to Scotland, in 1633, but also requesting and accepting
presents of devotional books, which it was part of the occupation
of the family to prepare.

The accounts of this religious house, and of the family
within it, so excited Johnny's imagination that he became
exceedingly desirous to see it, especially as it was said that
Mr. Ferrar was very infirm, and was not expected to survive
very long.

It was late in the autumn when he made this visit, about
two months before Mr. Ferrar's death. The rich autumn
foliage was lighted by the low sun as he rode through the
woods and meadows, and across the sluggish streams of Bedford
and Huntingdon. He slept at a village a few miles
south of Little Gidding, and reached that place early in the
day. It was a solitary, wooded place, with a large manor
house, and a little Church close by. It had been for sometime
depopulated, and there were no cottages nor houses near.
The manor house and Church had been restored to perfect
order by Mr. Ferrar, and Inglesant reached it through a grove
of trees planted in walks, with latticed paths and gardens on

VOL. I. F

both sides. A brook crossed the road at the foot of the
gentle ascent on which the house was built. He asked to see
Mr. Ferrar, and was shown by a man-servant into a fair
spacious parlour, where Mr. Ferrar presently came to him.
Inglesant was disappointed at his appearance, which was plain
and not striking in any way, but his speech was able and
attractive. Johnny apologised for his bold visit, telling him
how much taken he had been by his book, and by what he
had heard of him and his family; and that what he had heard
did not interest him merely out of curiosity, as he feared it
might have done many, but out of sincere desire to learn
something of the holy life which doubtless that family led.
To this Mr. Ferrar replied that he was thankful to see anyone
who came in such a spirit, and that several, not only of his
own friends, as Mr. Crashaw the poet, but many young students
from the University at Cambridge came to see him in a like
spirit, to the benefit, he hoped, of both themselves and of him.
He said with great humility, that although on the one hand very
much evil had been spoken of him which was not true, he had
no doubt that, on the other, many things had been said about
their holiness and the good that they did which went far
beyond the truth. For his own part, he said he had adopted
that manner of life through having long seen enough of the
manners and vanities of the world ; and holding them in low
esteem, was resolved to spend the best of his life in mortifications
and devotion, in charity, and in constant preparation for
death. That his mother, his elder brother, his sisters, his
nephews and nieces, being content to lead this mortified life,
they spent their time in acts of devotion and by doing such
good works as were within their power, such as keeping a
school for the children of the next parishes, for teaching of
whom he provided three masters who lived constantly in the
house. That for ten years they had lived this harmless life,
under the care of his mother, who had trained her daughters

and grand-daughters to every good work ; but two years ago
they had lost her by death, and as his health was very feeble
he did not expect long to be separated from her, but looked
forward to his departure with joy, being afraid of the evil times
he saw approaching.

When he had said this, he led Inglesant into a large handsome
room upstairs, where he introduced him to his sister,
Mrs. Collet, and her daughters, who were engaged in making
those curious books of Scripture Harmonies which had so
pleased King Charles. These seven young ladies, who formed
the junior part of the Society of the house, and were called
by the names of the chief virtues, the Patient, the Cheerful,
the Affectionate, the Submiss, the Obedient, the Moderate,
the Charitable, were engaged at that moment in cutting out
passages from two Testaments, which they pasted together so
neatly as to seem one book, and in such a manner as to enable
the reader to follow the narrative in all its particulars
from beginning to end without a break, and also to see which
of the sacred authors had contributed any particular part.

Inglesant told the ladies what fame reported of the nuns
of Gidding, of two watching and praying all night, of their
canonical hours, of their crosses on the outside and inside of
their Chapel, of an altar there richly decked with plate, tapestry,
and tapers, of their adoration and inflexions at their entering.
He told Mr. Ferrar that his object in visiting him was
chiefly to know his opinion of the Papists and their religion,
as, having been bred among them himself, and being very
nearly one of them, he was anxious to know the opinions of
one who was said to hold many of their doctrines without
joining them or approving them. Mr. Ferrar appeared at
first shy of speaking, but being apparently convinced of the
young man's sincerity, and that he was not an enemy in
disguise, he conversed very freely with him for some time,
speaking much of the love of God, and of the vanity of

worldly things ; of his dear friend Mr. George Herbert, and
of his saintly life; of the confused and troublesome life he
had formerly led, and of the great peace and satisfaction which
he had found since he had left the world and betaken himself
to that retired and religious life. That, as regards the Papists,
his translating Vanessa's book was a proof that he knew that
among them, as among all people, there were many true
worshippers of Jesus, being drawn by the blessed Sacrament
to follow Him in the spiritual and divine life, and that there
were many things in that book similar to the mystical religion
of which Inglesant spoke, which his dear friend Mr. George
Herbert had disapproved, as exalting the inward spiritual life
above the foundation of holy Scripture : that it was not for
him, who was only a deacon in the Church, to pronounce any
opinion on so difficult a point, and that he had printed all Mr.
Herbert's notes in his book, without comment of his own :
that though he was thus unwilling to give his own judgment,
he certainly believed that this inward spiritual life was open
to all men, and recommended Inglesant to continue his
endeavours after it, seeking it chiefly in the holy Sacrament
accompanied with mortification and confession.

While they were thus talking, the hour of evening prayer
arrived, and Mr. Ferrar invited Johnny to accompany him to
the Church ; which he gladly did, being very much attracted
by the evident holiness which pervaded Mr. Ferrar's talk and
manner. The family proceeded to Church in procession, Mr.
Ferrar and Inglesant walking first. The Church was kept in
great order, the altar being placed upon a raised platform
at the east end, and covered with tapestry stretching over
the floor all round it, and adorned with plate and tapers.
Mr. Ferrar bowed with great reverence several times on approaching
the altar, and directed Inglesant to sit in a stalled
seat opposite the reading pew, from which he said the evening
prayer. The men of the family knelt on the raised step

before the altar, the ladies and servants sitting in the body of
the Church. The Church was very sweet, being decked with
flowers and herbs ; and the soft autumn light rested over it.
From the seat where Inglesant knelt, he could see the faces
of the girls as they bent over their books at prayers. They
were all in black, except one, who wore a friar's grey gown ;
this was the one who was called the Patient, as Inglesant had
been told in the house, and the singularity of her dress attracted
his eye towards her during the prayers. The whole
scene, strange and romantic as it appeared to him, the devout
and serious manner of the worshippers — very different from
much that was common in churches at that day — and the
abstracted and devout look upon the faces of the girls, struck
his fancy, so liable to such influences, and so long trained to
welcome them ; and he could not keep his eyes from this one
face from which the grey hood was partly thrown back. It
was a passive face, with well-cut delicate features, and large
and quiet eyes.

Prayers being over, the ladies saluted Inglesant from a
distance, and left the Church with the rest, in the same order
as they had come, leaving Mr. Ferrar and Johnny alone.
They remained some time discoursing on worship and Church
ceremonies, and then returned to the house. It was now
late, and Mr. Ferrar, who was evidently much pleased with
his guest, invited him to stay the night, and even extended
his hospitality by asking him to stay over the next, which was
Saturday, and the Sunday, upon which, as it was the first
Sunday in the month, the holy Sacrament would be administered,
and several of Mr. Ferrar's friends from Cambridge
would come over and partake of it, and to pass the night and
day in prayer and acts of devotion. To this proposition
Inglesant gladly consented, the whole proceeding appearing
to him full of interest and attraction. Soon after they returned
to the house supper was served, all the family sitting

down together at a long table in the hall. During supper
some portion of the book of the Martyrs was read aloud.
Afterwards two hours were permitted for diversion, during
which all were allowed to do as they pleased.

The young ladies having found out that Inglesant was a
Queen's page, were very curious to hear of the Court and
royal family from him, which innocent request Mr. Ferrar
encouraged, and joined in himself. One reason of the success
with which his mother and he had ruled this household
appears to have been his skill in interesting and attracting all
its inmates by the variety and pleasant character of their
occupations. He was also much interested himself in what
Johnny told him, for in this secluded family, themselves
accustomed to prudence, Inglesant felt he might safely speak
of many things upon which he was generally silent ; and after
prayers, when the family were retired to their several rooms,
Mr. Ferrar remained with him some time, while Johnny
related to him the aspect of religious parties at the moment,
and particularly all that he could tell, without violating confidence,
of the Papists and of his friend the Jesuit.

The next morning they rose at four, though two of the
family had been at prayer all night, and did not go to rest till
the others rose. They went into the oratory in the house itself
to prayers, for they kept six times of prayer during the day.
At six they said the psalms of the hour, for every hour had its
appropriate psalms, and at half-past six went to Church for
matins. When they returned at seven o'clock they said the
psalms of the hour, sang a short hymn, and went to breakfast.
After breakfast, when the younger members of the family were
at their studies, Mr. Ferrar took Inglesant to the school, where
all the children in the neighbourhood were permitted to come.
At eleven they went to dinner, and after dinner there was no
settled occupation till one, every one being allowed to amuse
himself as he chose. The young ladies had been trained not

only to superintend the house, but to wait on any sick persons
in the neighbourhood who came to the house at certain times
for assistance, and to dress the wounds of those who were hurt,
in order to give them readiness and skill in this employment,
and to habituate them to the virtues of humility and tenderness
of heart. A large room was set apart for this purpose,
where Mr. Ferrar had instructed them in the necessary skill,
having been himself Physic Fellow at Clare Hall, in Cambridge,
and under the celebrated Professors at Padua, in Italy. This
room Inglesant requested to see, thinking that he should in
this way also see something of and be able to speak to the
young ladies whose acquaintance he had hitherto not had
much opportunity of cultivating. Mr. Ferrar told his nephew
to show it him — young Nicholas Ferrar, a young man of
extraordinary skill in languages, who was afterwards introduced
to the King and Prince Charles, some time before his early
death. When they entered the room Inglesant was delighted
to find that the only member of the family there was the young
lady in the Grey Friar's habit, whose face had attracted him so
much in Church. She was listening to the long tiresome tale
of an old woman, following the example of George Herbert,
who thought on a similar occasion, that " it was some relief to
a poor body to be heard with patience."

Johnny, who in spite of his Jesuitical and Court training
was naturally modest, and whose sense of religion made him
perfectly well-bred, accosted the young lady very seriously, and
expressed his gratitude at having been permitted to stay and
see so many excellent and improving things as that family had
to show. The liking which the head of the house had evidently
taken for Inglesant disposed the younger members in
his favour, and the young lady answered him simply and
unaffectedly, but with manifest pleasure.

Inglesant inquired concerning the assumed names of the
sisters and how they sustained their respective qualities, and

what exercises suited to these qualities they had to perform.
She replied that they had exercises, or discourses, which they
performed at the great festivals of the year, Christmas and
Easter; and which were composed with reference to their
several qualities. All of these, except her own, were enlivened
by hymns and odes composed by Mr. Ferrar, and set to music
by the music master of the family, who accompanied the voices
with the viol or the lute. But her own, she said, had never
any music or poetry connected with it ; it was always of a
very serious turn, and much longer than any other, and had
not any historical anecdote or fable interwoven with it, the
contrivance being to exercise that virtue to which she was
devoted. Inglesant asked her with pity if this was not very
hard treatment, and she only replied, with a smile, that she
had the enjoyment of all the lively performances of the others.
He asked her whether they looked forward to passing all their
lives in this manner, or whether they allowed the possibility of
any change, and if she had entirely lost her own name in her
assumed one, or whether he might presume to ask it, that he
might have wherewithal to remember her by, as he surely
should as long as he had life. She said her name was Mary
Collet ; and that as to his former question, two of her sisters
had had, at one time, a great desire to become veiled virgins,
to take upon them a vow of perpetual chastity, with the
solemnity of a Bishop's blessing and ratification, but on going
to Bishop Williams he had discouraged, and at last, dissuaded
them from it.

Inglesant and the young lady remained talking in this way
for some time, young Nicholas Ferrar having left them ; but
at last she excused herself from staying any longer, and he
was obliged to let her go. He ventured to say that he hoped
they would remember him, that he was utterly ignorant of the
future that lay before him, but that whatever fate awaited him,
he should never forget the " Nuns of Gidding " and their

religious life. She replied that they would certainly remember
him, as they did all their acquaintance, in their daily prayer,
especially as she had seldom seen her uncle so pleased with a
stranger as he had been with him. With these compliments
they parted, and Inglesant returned to the drawing-room, where
more visitors had arrived.

In the afternoon there came from Cambridge Mr. Crashaw
the poet, of Penthouse, who afterwards went over to the
Papists and died Canon of Lorenzo, and several gentlemen,
undergraduates of Cambridge, to spend the Sunday at Gidding,
being the first Sunday of the month. Mr. Crashaw, when
Inglesant was introduced to him as one of the Queen's pages,
finding that he was acquainted with many Roman Catholics,
was very friendly and conversed with him apart. He said he
conceived a great admiration for the devout lives of the
Catholic saints, and of the government and discipline of the
Catholic Church, and that he feared that the English Church
had not sufficient authority to resist the spread of Presbyterianism,
in which case he saw no safety except in returning
to the communion of Rome. Walking up and down the
garden paths, after evening prayers in Church, he spoke a great
deal on this subject, and on the beauty of a retired religious
life, saying that here at Little Gidding and at Little St. Marie's
Church, near to Penthouse, he had passed the most blissful
moments of his life, watching at midnight in prayer and
meditation.

That night Mr. Crashaw, Inglesant, and one or two others
remained in the Church from nine till twelve, during which
time they said over the whole Book of Psalms in the way of
antiphony, one repeating one verse and the rest the other.
The time of their watch being ended they returned to the
house, went to Mr. Ferrar's door and bade him good-morrow,
leaving a lighted candle for him. They then went to bed, but
Mr. Ferrar arose according to the passage of Scripture "at

midnight I will arise and give thanks," and went into the
Church, where he betook himself to religious meditation.

Early on the Sunday morning the family were astir and
said prayers in the oratory. After breakfast many people from
the country around and more than a hundred children came
in. These children were called the Psalm children, and were
regularly trained to repeat the Psalter, and the best voices
among them to assist in the service on Sundays. They came
in every Sunday, and according to the proficiency of each were
presented with a small piece of money, and the whole number
entertained with a dinner after Church. The Church was
crowded at the morning service before the Sacrament. The
service was beautifully sung, the whole family taking the
greatest delight in Church music, and many of the gentlemen
from Cambridge being amateurs. The Sacrament was administered
with the greatest devotion and solemnity. Impressed
as he had been with the occupation of the preceding day and
night, and his mind excited with watching and want of sleep
and with the exquisite strains of the music, the effect upon
Inglesant's imaginative nature was excessive. Above the altar,
which was profusely bedecked with flowers, the antique glass
of the East window, which had been carefully repaired, contained
a figure of the Saviour of an early and severe type.
The form was gracious and yet commanding, having a brilliant
halo round the head, and being clothed in a long and apparently
seamless coat; the two fore-fingers of the right hand
were held up to bless. Kneeling upon the half-pace, as he
received the sacred bread and tasted the holy wine, this
gracious figure entered into Inglesant's soul, and stillness and
peace unspeakable, and life, and light, and sweetness, filled
his mind. He was lost in a sense of rapture, and earth and
all that surrounded him faded away. When he returned a
little to himself, kneeling in his seat in the Church, he thought
that at no period of his life, however extended, should he ever

forget that morning or lose the sense and feeling of that touching
scene, of that gracious figure over the altar, of the bowed
and kneeling figures, of the misty autumn sunlight and the
sweeping autumn wind. Heaven itself seemed to have opened
to him and one fairer than the fairest of the angelic hosts to
have come down to earth.

After the service, the family and all the visitors returned to
the mansion house in the order in which they had come, and
the Psalm children were entertained with a dinner in the great
hall ; all the family and visitors came in to see them served,
and Mrs. Collet, as her mother had always done, placed the
first dish on the table herself to give an example of humility.
Grace having been said, the bell rang for the dinner of the
family, who, together with the visitors, repaired to the great
dining-room, and stood in order round the table. While the
dinner was being served they sang a hymn to the organ at the
upper end of the room. Then grace was said by the Priest
who had celebrated the communion, and they sat down. All
the sen-ants who had received the Sacrament that day sat at
table with the rest. During dinner one of the young people
whose turn it was, read a chapter from the Bible, and when
that was finished conversation was allowed ; Mr. Ferrar and
some of the other gentlemen endeavouring to make it of a
character suitable to the da)-, and to the service they had just
taken part in. After dinner they went to Church again for
evening prayer ; between which service and supper Inglesant
had some talk with Mr. Ferrar concerning the Papists and Mr.
Crashaw's opinion of them.

I ought to be a fit person to advise you," said Mr. Ferrar
with a melancholy smile, " for I am myself, as it were, crushed
between the upper and nether millstone of contrary reports,
for I suffer equal obloquy — and no martyrdom is worse than
that of continual obloquy — both for being a Papist and a
Puritan. You will suppose there must be some strong reason

why I, who value so many things among the Papists so much,
have not joined them myself. I should probably have escaped
much violent invective if I had done so. You are very young,
and are placed where you can see and judge of both parties.
You possess sufficient insight to try the spirits whether they
be of God. Be not hasty to decide, and before you decide to
join the Romish communion, make a tour abroad, and if you
can, go to Rome itself. When I was in Italy and Spain, I
made all the inquiries and researches I could. I bought many
scarce and valuable books in the languages of those countries,
in collecting which I had a principal eye to those which treated
on the subjects of spiritual life, devotion, and religious retirement,
but the result of all was that I am now, and I shall die,
as I believe and hope shortly, in the Communion of the English
Church. This day, as I believe, the blessed Sacrament
has been in the Church before our eyes, and what can you or
I desire more?"

The next morning before Inglesant left, Mr. Ferrar showed
him his foreign collections, his great treasure of rarities and of
prints of the best masters of that time, mostly relative to historical
passages of the Old and New Testaments. Inglesant
dined with the family, of whom he took leave with a full heart,
saluting the ladies with the pleasant familiarity which the
manners of the time permitted. Mr. Ferrar went with him
to the borders of the parish, and gave him his blessing. They
never saw each other again, for two months afterwards Nicholas
Ferrar was in his grave.

CHAPTER V.

THE next year of Inglesant's life contained several
incidents which had very important results. The first
of these was the illness and death of his father, which occurred
shortly after Johnny's return to London. His end was doubtless
hastened by the perplexity and disappointment of many of
his political projects, for his life in many respects was a failure.
Though a rich man he had spent large sums in his political
intrigues, and the property he left was not large. His lands
and all his money he left to his eldest son, but he left Johnny
some houses in the city, which Inglesant was advised to sell.
He therefore disposed of them to a Parliament man, and
deposited the money with a goldsmith to be ready in case of
need. The possession of this money made him an important
person, and he was advised to purchase a place about the
Court, which, with his interest with the Queen's advisers,
would secure his success in life. He endeavoured to act on
this advice, but it was some time before he was successful.

After his return to London Inglesant saw Mr. Crashaw two
or three times, when that gentleman was in London, and his
conversation led him to think more of the Roman Catholics
than he had hitherto done, and inclined him more and more
to join them. Nothing would have recommended him so
much to the Queen as such a step, and his feelings and sympathies
all led him the same way. He was exceedingly disgusted
with the conduct and conversation of the Puritans, and
the extreme lengths to which it was evident they were endeavouring

to drive the people. Most of his friends, even those
who were themselves sound Churchmen, looked favourably on
the Papists, and it was thought the height of ill breeding to
speak against them at Court. It is probable, therefore, that
Inglesant would have joined them openly but for two very
opposite causes. The one was his remembrance of the Sacrament
at Little Gidding, the other was the influence of his
friend the Jesuit. The first of these prevented that craving
after the sacrifice of the Mass, which doubtless is the strongest
of all the motives which lead men to Rome ; the other was
exerted several ways.

It was one of the political maxims of this man that he
never, if possible, allowed anything he had gained or any
mode of influence he had acquired to be lost or neglected,
even though circumstances had rendered it useless for the
particular purpose for which he had at first intended it. In the
present case he had no intention of permitting all the care and
pains he had been at in Inglesant's education to be thrown
away. It is true the exact use to which he had intended to
devote the talents he had thus trained no longer existed, but
this did not prevent his appreciating the exquisite fitness of
the instrument he had prepared for such or similar use.
Circumstances had occurred which in his far-seeing policy
made the Church of England scarcely worth gaining to the
Catholic side, but in proportion as the Church might cease to
be one of the great powers in the country, the Papists would
step into its place : and in the confused political struggles
which he foresaw, the Jesuit anticipated ample occupation for
the peculiar properties of his pupil. In the event of a struggle,
the termination of which none could foresee, a qualified agent
would be required as much between the Papists and the popular
leaders as between the Catholics and the Royal and Church
Party. Acting on these principles, therefore, the Jesuit was
far from losing sight of Inglesant, or even neglecting him. Sofar

indeed was he from doing so, that he was acquainted with
most that passed through his mind, and was well aware of his
increased attraction towards the Church to which he himself
belonged. Now for Inglesant to have become actively and
enthusiastically a Papist would at once have defeated all his
plans for him, and rendered him useless for the peculiar needs
for which he had been prepared. He would doubtless have
gone abroad, and even if he had not remained buried in some
college on the Continent, he would have returned merely as
one of those mission priests (for doubtless he would have
taken orders) of whom the Jesuit had already more than he
required. It was even not desirable that he should associate
exclusively with Papists. He was already sufficiently known
and his position understood among them for the purposes ot any
future mission on which he might be engaged ; and it : would
be more to the purpose for him to extend his acquaintance
among Church of England people, and gain their confidence.
To this end the Jesuit thought proper to remove him from
the immediate attendance on the Queen, where he saw few
except Papists, and to assist in his endeavours to purchase a
place about the King's person. In this he was successful, and
about the end of 1639 Inglesant purchased the place of one
of the Esquires of the Body who relinquished his place on
account of ill health. This post, which followed immediately
after that of the gentlemen of the Privy Chamber, was looked
upon as a very important and influential one, and cost Inglesant
a large sum of money before he obtained it. He was,
as we have seen, rather a favourite with the King, who had
noticed him more than once, and he began to be regarded asa
rising courtier whose friendship it would be well to keep.

When the Jesuit had seen him settled in his new post, he
put in motion another and still more powerful engine which
he had prepared for preventing his pupil from joining the
Romish Church. He had himself inculcated as much as possible

a broad and philosophical method of thought upon his
pupil, but he was necessarily confined and obstructed in this
direction by his own position and supposed orthodoxy, and he
was therefore anxious to infuse into Inglesant's mind a larger
element of rational inquiry than in his sacred character it was
possible for him to accomplish without shocking his pupil's
moral sense. If I have not failed altogether in representing
that pupil's character, it will have been noticed that it was one
of those which combine activity of thought with great faculty of
reverence and of submission to those powers to which its fancy
and taste are subordinated. These natures are enthusiastic,
though generally not supposed to be so, and though little sign
of it appears in their outward conduct ; for the objects of their
enthusiasm being generally different from those which attract
most men, they are conscious that they have little sympathy
to expect in their pursuit of them, and this gives their enthusiasm
a reserved and cautious demeanour. They are not, however,
blindly enthusiastic, but are never satisfied till they have
found some theory by which they are able to reconcile in their
own minds the widest results to which their activity of thought
has led them, with the submission and service which it is their
delight and choice to pay to such outward systems and authorities
as have pleased and attracted their taste. This theory
consists generally in some, at times half-formed, conception of
the imperfect dispensation in which men live, which makes
obedience to authority, with which the most exalted reason
cannot entirely sympathise, becoming and even necessary.
This feeling more than anything else, gives to persons of this
nature a demeanour quite different from that of the ordinary
religious or political enthusiast, a demeanour seemingly cold
and indifferent, though courteous and even to some extent
sympathetic, and which causes the true fanatic to esteem them
as little better than the mere man of the world, or the minion
of courtly power. The enthusiastic part of his character had

been fully cultivated in Inglesant, the reasoning and philosophic
part had been wakened and trained to some extent by
his readings in Plato under the direction of the Jesuit ; it remained
now to be still more developed, whether to the ultimate
improvement of his character it would be hard to say.

The Jesuit took him one day into the city to Devonshire
House, where, inquiring for Mr. Hobbes, they were shown
into a large handsome room full of books, where a gentleman
was sitting whose appearance struck Inglesant very much.
He was tall and very erect, with a square mallet-shaped head
and ample forehead. He wore a small red moustache, that
curled upward, and a small tuft of hair upon his chin. His
eyes were hazel and full of life and spirit, and when he spoke
they shone with lively light ; when he was witty and laughed
the lids closed over them so that they could scarcely be seen,
but when he was serious and in earnest they expanded to their
full orb, and penetrated, as it seemed, to the farthest limit of
thought. He was dressed in a coat of black velvet lined with
fur, and wore long boots of Spanish leather laced with ribbon.
When the first compliments were over, the Jesuit introduced
Inglesant to him as a young gentleman of promise, who
would derive great benefit from his acquaintance, and whose
friendship he hoped might not prove unacceptable to Mr.
Hobbes.

Inglesant came often to Mr. Hobbes, whose conversation
delighted him. It frequently referred to the occurrences of
the day, in which Mr. Hobbes sided with the Government,
having a great regard for the King personally, as had Harrington
afterwards, and most of the philosophers — all their sympathies
and theories being on the side of law and strong
government ; but their discourse frequently went beyond this,
and embraced those questions of human existence which interest
thinking men. He soon found out Inglesant's tendency
towards Catholicism, and strongly dissuaded him from it.

VOL. I. g

Your idea of the Catholic system," he said, " is a dream,
and has no real existence among the Papists. Your ideal is
an exalted Platonic manifestation of the divine existence diffused
among men : the reality is a system of mean trivial details,
wearisome and disgusting to such men as you are. Instead
of the perfect communion with the Divine Light, such
as you seek, you will have before you and above you nothing
but the narrow conceptions of some ignorant priest to whom
you must submit your intellect. What freedom of thought or
existence will remain to you when you have fully accepted the
article of transubstantiation, and truly believe that the priest
is able of a piece of bread to make absolutely and unconditionally
our Saviour's body, and thereby at the hour of death
to save your soul ? Will it not have an effect upon you to make
you think him a god, and to stand in awe of him as of God
Himself if He were visibly present?"

I suppose it would," said Inglesant.

One of our divines of the English Church, writing much
above their wont — for they are much stronger in their lives than
in their writings — puts this very plainly in the matter of the
judgment of the priest in confession. ' Yet this extorted confession
on Pain of Damnation is not the stripping a man to
his naked body, but the stripping him of his body, that they
may see his naked heart, and so, by the force of this superstition,
break into those secrets which it is the only due privilege
of Almighty God to be acquainted with, who is the only
rightful Searcher of hearts.' These men may well pretend to
be followers of Aristotle, who reason only from the names of
things, according to the scale of the Categories ; but of those
of the better sort, as you and I take ourselves to be, who
follow Plato, and found our doctrine on the conceptions and
ideas of things, we must ever submit to be called heretics by
them as a reproach, though we, doubtless, and not they, are the
true sacramentalists, that is, the seekers for the hidden and

the divine truth. It is for this reason that I take the Sacrament
in the English Church, which I call in England the
Holy Church, and believe that its statutes are the true Christian
Faith."

There seems to me," he went on after a pause, "something
frightfully grotesque about the Romish Church as a reality.
Showing us on the one side a mass of fooleries and ridiculous
conceits and practices, at which, but for the use of them, all
men must needs stand amazed ; such rabble of impossible relics,
the hay that was in the manger, and more than one tail of the
ass on which Christ rode into Jerusalem, besides hundreds
which for common decency no man in any other case would so
much as name. To look on these, I say, on one side, and on
the other to see those frightful and intolerable cruelties, so
detestable that they cannot be named, by which thousands
have been tormented by this holy and pure Church, has something
about it so grotesque and fantastic that it seems to me
sometimes more like some masque or dance of satyrs or devils
than the followers of our Saviour Christ."

All this," said Inglesant, " I partly believe, yet I imagine
that something may be said upon the other side of the argument,
and I should suppose that there is not one of these
doctrines and practices but what has some shadow of truth in
it, and sprang at first from the wellspring of truth."

Doubtless," said the philosopher, " there is nothing but
has had its origin in some conception of the truth, but are we
1 for this cause,' as that same divine says, ' also to forsake the
Truth itself, and devotionally prostrate ourselves to every
evanescent and far-cast show of Him — shadows of shadows —
in infinite myriads of degenerations from Him?' Surely not."

What is truth?" said Inglesant; " who shall show us any
good?"

"Truth," said the philosopher, "is that which we have
been taught, that which the civil government under which we

live instructs us in and directs us to believe. Our Saviour
Christ came as the Messiah to establish His kingdom on earth,
and after Him the Apostles and Christian Princes and Commonwealths
have handed down His truth to us. This is our
only safe method of belief."

"But should we believe nothing of Christianity," said
Inglesant, " unless the civil government had taught it us?"

How can you believe anything," said Hobbes, " unless
you have first been taught it? and in a Christian Commonwealth
the civil government is the vicar of Christ. I know the
Jesuits," said Hobbes, " and they me ; when I was in France,
some of them came to trouble me about something I had said.
I quieted them by promising to write a book upon them if
they did not let me be : what they seek is influence over the
minds of men \ to gain this they will allow every vice of which
man is capable. I could prove it from their books. It is not
for me, whom you scarcely know, to say anything against a
friend whom you have known so long ; but, as I understand
you, your friend does not advise you to become a Papist. I
do not suppose, though possibly you may do so, that he has
no other object in view than your welfare. He has doubtless
far-reaching reasons of which we know nothing ; nevertheless,
be not distrustful of him, but in this especially follow his advice.
Shakespeare, the play-writer, says ' there's a divinity that shapes
our ends,' or, I should say, the ends that others work out for
us, to His higher purpose. Let us have faith in this beneficent
Artist, and let Him accomplish His will on us."

But this," said Inglesant, " is very different from what my
reading and experience in mystical religion has taught me. Is
there then no medium between the Divine Life and ourselves
than that of the civil government? This would seem to me
most repulsive and contrary to experience."

If you pretend to a direct revelation," said Hobbes with
a smile, " I have nothing to allege against it, but, to the rest

of us, Christian sovereigns are the supreme pastors and the
only persons we now hear speak from God. But because God
giveth faith by means of teachers, therefore I call hearing the
immediate cause of faith. In a school where many are taught,
some profit, others profit not; the cause of learning in them that
profit is the Master, yet it cannot be thence inferred that
learning is not the gift of God. All good things proceed from
God, yet cannot all that have them say that they are inspired,
for that implies a gift supernatural and the immediate hand of
God, which he that pretends to, pretends to be a prophet"

I am loth to believe what you say," said Inglesant ; " I am
no prophet, yet I would willingly believe that God is speaking
to me with an immediate voice, nay, more, that I may enter
into the very life that God is leading, and partake of His nature.
Also, what you now say seems to me to contradict what you
said before, that we should endeavour to found our doctrine on
the conceptions and ideas of things, which I take to mean a
following after divine truth : nor do I see why you take the
sacrament, as you say you do, except you expect some immediate
communication from God in it."

The philosopher smiled. " One may see you have been
taught in the Jesuits' college," he said, " and are a forward
pupil and a close reasoner. But what I have said concerning
faith coming by hearing need not prevent that afterwards God
may convey other gifts to men by other means. Yet I confess
I am not a proficient in this divine knowledge or life of which
you speak j nor do I follow your master Plato very far into the
same conclusions which many profess to find in him. One
disputant grounds his knowledge upon the infallibility of the
Church, and the other on the testimony of the private spirit.
The first we need not discuss, but how do you know that your
private spirit, that this divine life within you, is any other thana
belief grounded on the authority and arguments of your
teachers ? "

Inglesant made no reply, which the philosopher perceiving,
began to talk of something else, and the other soon after took
his leave. Hobbes's doctrine was new to him, as it was to
every one in that day, indeed, the particular form it took was
peculiar to Hobbes, and perished with him ; but the underlying
materialism which in some form or other has presented itself to
the thinkers of every age, and which now for the first time
came before Inglesant's mind, was not without its effect.
How do I know indeed," he said, " that this divine life within
me is anything but an opinion formed by what I have heard
and read ? How do I know that there is any such thing as a
divine life at all?"

Such thoughts as these, if they produced no other effect,
yet gradually lessened that eagerness in his mind towards
divine things which had been so strong since his visit to Little
Gidding, and quite satisfied him to defer at any rate any
thoughts of joining the Church of Rome. But his thoughts
were turned into other channels by the events which were
occurring in the political world, and which began now to
assume a very exciting character.

CHAPTER VI.

ON the 20th of August 1640 the King set out for York
on his way to Scotland, in some haste, and Inglesant
accompanied or rather preceded him, his duty being to provide
apartments for the King. The King advanced no farther
than North Atherton, Lord Strafford being at Darlington, and
a large part of the army at Newburn-upon-Tyne, from whence
they retreated before the Scots almost without fighting. It
was at this time that Inglesant began to see more of the real
state of affairs among the leaders of the royal party, and
became aware of the real weakness of their position. He
appears to have formed the opinion that Lord Strafford, in
spite of his great qualities, had failed altogether in establishing
himself on a firm and lasting footing of power, and was deficient
in those qualities of a statesman that ensure success,
and incapable of realising the necessities of the times. His
army, on which he relied, was disorganised, and totally without
devotion or enthusiasm. It melted away before the Scots,
or fraternised with them, and the trained bands and gentry
who came in to the King's standard and to the Earl, prefaced
all their offers of service with petitions for the redress of
grievances and the calling together a Parliament. Inglesant
had already formed the opinion that the Archbishop, who
was now left at the head of affairs in London with the Privy
Council, and was vainly endeavouring to prevent the citizens
from sending up monster petitions to the King, was even
more at variance with the inevitable course of events, and

more powerless to withstand them than the Earl; and he
appears to have written to his friend the Jesuit, for his guidance,
careful explanations of his own views on these subjects.
Father Hall, however, was not a man hastily to change his
course. He had belonged from the beginning to that section
of the popish party whose policy had been to support the
High Church party rather than to oppose it, and this policy
was strengthened now that the royal power itself began to be
attacked. Whatever others of the popish party might think,
those with whom the Jesuit acted, and the party at Rome
which directed their conduct, were undeviating supporters of
the King, and were convinced that all advantage which the
Papists might in future achieve was dependent upon him. It
is not apparent what action the Jesuit was taking at this
moment, probably he was contented to watch the course of
events ; but this much is certain, that his efforts to induce
Churchmen to work with him were increased rather than
diminished.

While the King was at York, the Marquis of Montrose,
who was in the Covenanters' army, carried on a correspondence
with him, and copies of his letters were believed to be
stolen from the King's pockets at night by one of the gentlemen
of the bed-chamber, and sent to the leader of the Scots'
army. Montrose retired into Scotland, and as the King was
desirous of continuing a correspondence which promised so
much, he decided upon sending a special messenger to the
Marquis. Inglesant was fixed upon for this mission, as being
known by the Royalists as a confidential agent of the Court,
but at the same time almost entirely unknown to the opposite
party. He found Montrose at Edinburgh, at a time when
the Marquis was endeavouring to form a party among the
nobility of Scotland, in opposition to the Covenant. Inglesant
was probably little more in this negotiation than an
accredited letter-carrier ; but a circumstance occurred in connection

with his stay in Scotland which is not without interest
with reference to his future character. Among the gentlemen
with whom Montrose was in connection were some of the
Highland chiefs, and to one of these the Marquis sent Inglesant
as a safe agent, being perfectly unknown in Scotland.
This gentleman, understanding that the messenger of Montrose
was coming to meet him, travelled down from the Highlands
with a great retinue of servants, and sent on one of his gentlemen,
with a few attendants, to meet the young Englishman on
the borders of Perthshire. Inglesant had ridden from Stirling,
and the night being stormy and dark, he had stopped at a
gentleman's house in a lonely situation at the foot of the
Badenoch Hills. Here, late in the evening, his entertainers
met him, and they passed the night in company. After supper,
as they were sitting in front of the fire with the master of the
house and several more, the conversation turned upon the
faculty of second sight, and the numberless instances of its
certainty with which the Highland gentlemen were acquainted.
While they were thus discoursing, the attention of the gentleman
who had come to meet Inglesant was attracted by an old
Highlander who sat in the large chimney, and he inquired
whether he saw anything unusual in the Englishman, that
made him regard him with such attention. He said no, he
saw nothing in him fatal or remarkable more than this, that
he was much mistaken if that young man was not a seer himself,
or, at any rate, would be able before many months were
over to see apparitions and spirits. Inglesant thought little
of this at the time, but he remembered it afterwards when an
event occurred on his return to London which recalled it to
his recollection.

The treaty having been settled with the Scots, and the writs
issued for a new Parliament, the King returned to London.

One day in September, Inglesant received a visit from one
of the servants of the Archbishop of Canterbury, who brought

a message from Laud expressing a wish to see Mr. Inglesant
at his dinner at Lambeth Palace on any day that would suit
his convenience. He went the next day by water at the
proper hour, and was ushered into the great hall of the palace,
where dinner was laid, and many gentlemen and clergymen
standing about in the windows and round the tables, waiting
the Archbishop. Inglesant's entrance was remarked at once,
.his dress and appearance rendering him conspicuous, and his
person being well known, and occasioned some surprise ; for
the Archbishop had not been latterly on friendly terms with
the Queen, whom he had opposed on some questions relating
to Papists, to whose party, even since his being in the King's
household, Inglesant was considered to belong. The servants
had evidently received orders concerning him, for he was
placed very high at table and waited upon with great attention.
On the Archbishop's entrance he noticed Inglesant
particularly, and expressed his pleasure at seeing him there.
The conversation at dinner turned entirely on the Scotch
rebellion, and the failure of the Earl of Strafford to repress it ;
and on the King's return to London, which had not long taken
place. Several gentlemen present had been with the army,
and spoke of the insubordination among the officers, especially
such as had been Parliament men. The elections for the new
Parliament were expected shortly to take place, and many of
the officers were deserting from the army, and coming up to
London and other places to secure their return. The utmost
dissatisfaction and insubordination prevailed over the whole
country, for Laud and Strafford, after exciting the animosity
of the people, had proved themselves weak, and the people
began to despise as well as hate them — not perceiving that
this probably proved that they were not the finished tyrants
they were supposed to be. Strafford's army, raised by himself,
having proved powerless against the Scots and insubordinate
against its master, the popular party was encouraged

to attack him, whom they hated as much as ever, though they
began to fear him less. The violent excitement of the popular
party against the High Churchmen and against ceremonies was
also a subject of conversation. The wildest rumours were
prevalent as to the probable conduct of the new Parliament,
but all agreed that the Lord Lieutenant and the Archbishop,
and probably the Lord Keeper, would be impeached. After
dinner the Archbishop rose from table, and retired into one of
the windows at the upper end of the hall, overlooking the
river, requesting Inglesant, to whom he pointed out the beauties
of the view, to follow him. Having done this, he said a few
words to him in a low voice, explaining his regret at the difference
which had arisen between himself and the Queen, whose
most faithful servant he protested he had ever been, and whom
he was most desirous to please. He then went on to say that
he both could and intended to inform Her Majesty of this
through other channels than Mr. Inglesant, though he bespoke
his good offices therein ; but he wished principally to speak to
him of another matter, which would require privacy to explain
fully to him ; but thus far he would say, that although he had
always been a true servant of the Church of England, and had
never entertained any thoughts inconsistent with such fidelity,
yet he believed the Roman Catholics were aware that he had
always behaved with great toleration to them, and had always
entertained a great respect for their religion, refusing to allow
it to be abused or described as Antichrist in the English pulpits;
that it was notorious that he had excited the enmity of the
popular party by this conduct; and that whatever he might
suffer under the new Parliament would be in consequence of
it. He was aware that Mr. Inglesant was in the confidence of
that party, and especially the particular friend of Father Hall,
the leader of the most powerful section of it ; and he entreated
his services to bring the Jesuit and himself to some understanding
and concerted action, whereby, at least, they might

ward off some of the blows that would be aimed at them.
The Archbishop said that many of the wisest politicians considered
that the two parties who would divide the stage between
them would be the popular party and the Papists ; and
if this were really the case (though he himself thought that the
loyal Church party would prove stronger than was thought),
it was evident that Mr. Inglesant's friend would be well able
to return any kindness that the Archbishop had shown the
Romanists.

Inglesant went to the Jesuit as soon as possible, and related
his interview with the Archbishop. Father Hall listened to it
with great interest.

He has been like a true ecclesiastic," he said, " blind to
facts while he was in the course of his power, astonished and
confounded when the natural results arrive. Nevertheless, I
fancy he will make a good fight, or at least a good ending.
The people know not what they want, and might have been
led easily, but it is too late. What was the real amount of
tyranny and persecution the people suffered? The Church
officers were blamed on the one hand for not putting the laws
in force against the Papists, and on the other, for putting them
in force against the Puritans. However, he has a right view
of the power of the Church party, in which I join him. We
shall see the good fight they will make for the King yet. The
gentry and chivalry of England are rather rusty for want of
use, but we shall see the metal they are made of before long.
However, the Catholics will be ready first, are ready in fact
now, and I have great hopes of the use that we shall make of
these opportunities. I am much mistaken if such a chance as
we shall have before many months are over will not be greater
than we have had for a century. I shall count on you. We
have been long delayed, and you must have thought all our
pains would come to nothing; but we must have long patience
if we enter on the road of politics.

You are now," said the Jesuit, " embracing the cause full
of enthusiasm and zeal, and this is very well ; how else could
we run out the race, unless we began with some little fire ?
But this will not last, and unless you are warned, you may be
offended and fall away. When you have lived longer in this
world and outlived the enthusiastic and pleasing illusions of
youth, you will find your love and pity for the race increase
tenfold, your admiration and attachment to any particular party
or opinion fall away altogether. You will not find the royal
cause perfect any more than any other, nor those embarked in
it free from mean and sordid motives, though you think now
that all of them act from the noblest. This is the most
important lesson that a man can learn — that all men are really
alike ; that all creeds and opinions are nothing but the mere
result of chance and temperament ; that no party is on the
whole better than another; that no creed does more than
shadow imperfectly forth some one side of truth ; and it is
only when you begin to see this that you can feel that pity for
mankind, that sympathy with its disappointments and follies,
and its natural human hopes, which have such a little time of
growth, and such a sure season of decay.

I have seen nothing more pathetic than touches in the
life of some of these Puritans — men who have, as they thought
in obedience to the will of the Deity, denied themselves pleasure
— human pleasure — through their lives, and now and then
some old song, some pleasant natural tale of love flashes across
their path, and the true human instinct of the sons of Adam
lights up within them.

Nothing but the Infinite pity is sufficient for the infinite
pathos of human life.

As you know, we have many parties in our Church, nay,
in our own order : different members may be sent on opposing
missions ; but it is no matter, they are all alike. Hereafter it
will be of little importance which of these new names, Cavalier

or Roundhead, you are called by, whether you turn Papist or
Puritan, Jesuit or Jansenist, but it will matter very much
whether you acted as became a man, and did not flinch
ignobly at the moment of trial. Choose your part from the
instinct of your order, from your birth, or from habit or whatnot;
but having chosen it, follow it to the end. Stand by your
party or your order, and especially in the hour of trial or
danger be sure you never falter ; for, be certain of this, that no
misery can be equal to that which a man feels who is conscious
that he has proved unequal to his part, who has deserted the
post his captain set him, and who, when men said ' such and
such a one is there on guard, there is no need to take further
heed,' has left his watch or quailed before the foeman, to the
loss, perhaps the total ruin, of the cause he had made his
choice. I pray God that such misery as this may never be
yours."

The elections being over, London became very full. The
new members hastened up. The nobility and country gentry
came crowding in, and all the new houses in the Strand and
Charing Cross were occupied, and a throng of young Cavaliers
filled the courts and precincts of the palace. As soon as the
King arrived, Inglesant went into waiting in his new post, in
which great responsibility in the keeping of the royal household,
especially at night, devolved upon him. His post came immediately
after that of the gentlemen of the privy chamber, with
whom the immediate attendance on the person of the King
stopped, but the charge of the King's rooms brought him continually
into the royal presence.

As soon as the Parliament met, the impeachment of
Strafford began; and as it proceeded, the excitement grew
more and more intense. It was not safe for the courtiers
to go into the city, except in numbers together, and a court
of guard was kept by the Cavaliers before Whitehall towards
Charing Cross.

One day Inglesant received a letter from the Jesuit, whom
he seldom saw, as follows : —

"Jack, tell your friend, the Archbishop, that Lambeth
House will be attacked two nights from this, by a rabble of
the populace. The Parliament leaders will not be seen in this,
but they can be felt. Burn this, but let the Archbishop know
the hand from which it comes."

On receiving this warning the Archbishop fortified his
house, and crossed the water to his chamber in Whitehall,
where he slept that night and two others following. His
house was attacked by a mob of five hundred men ; one of
them was wounded and afterwards executed ; not much
damage was done.

History can furnish few events so startling and remarkable
as the trial and death of Lord Strafford — events which, the more
they are studied, the more wonderful they appear. It is not
easy to find words to express the miserable weakness and want
of statesmanship which led to, and made possible, such an
event; and one is almost equally surprised at the comparatively
few traces of the sensation and consternation that such
an event must have produced. I am not speaking of the
justice or the injustice of the sentence, nor of the crime or innocence
of the accused, — I speak only of a great minister and
servant of the Crown, in whose policy and support the whole
of the royal power, the whole strength of the national establishment,
was involved and pledged. That such a man, by the
simple clamour of popular opinion, should have been arrested,
tried, and executed in a few days, with no effort but the most
degrading and puny one made on his behalf by his royal
master and friend, certainly must have produced a terror and
excitement, one would think, unequalled in history. That the
King never recovered from it is not surprising; one would have
thought he would never have held up his head again. That the
royal party was amazed and confounded is not wonderful ; one

would have thought it would have been impossible ever to
have formed a royal party afterwards. What considerations
were powerful enough in the King's mind to induce him to
consent to an act of such wretched folly and meanness we
shall never know.

It was two nights after the execution. The guard was set
at Whitehall and the " all night " served up. The word for
the night was given, and the whole palace was considered asunder
the sole command of Inglesant, as the esquire in waiting.
He had been round to the several gates, and seen that the
courts and anterooms were quiet and clear of idlers, and then
came up into the anteroom outside the privy chamber, and sat
down alone before the fire. In the room beyond him were
two gentlemen of the privy chamber, who slept in small beds
drawn across the door opening into the royal bedchamber
beyond. The King was in his room, in bed, but not asleep ;
Lord Abergavenny, the gentleman of the bedchamber in waiting,
was reading Shakespeare to him before he slept. Inglesant
took out a little volume of the classics, of the series printed
in Holland, which it was the custom of the gentlemen of the
Court, and those attached to great nobles, to carry with them
to read in antechambers while in waiting. The night was perfectly
still, and the whole palace wrapped in a profound quiet
that was almost oppressive to one who happened to be awake.
Inglesant could not read ; the event that had just occurred,
the popular tumults, the shock of feeling which the royal party
had sustained, the fear and uncertainty of the future, filled his
thoughts. The responsibility of his post sat on him to-night
like a nightmare, and with very unusual force; a sense of
approaching terror in the midst of the intense silence fascinated
him and became almost insupportable. His fancy filled
his mind with images of some possible oversight and of some
unseen danger which might be lurking even then in the precincts
of the vast rambling palace. Gradually, however, all

these images became confused and the sense of terror dulled,
and he was on the point of falling asleep when he was startled
by the ringing sound of arms and the challenge of the yeoman
of the guard, on the landing outside the door. The next
instant a voice, calm and haughty, which sent a tremor through
every nerve, gave back the word " Christ." Inglesant started
up and grasped the back of his chair in terror.

Gracious Heaven! who was this that knew the word? In
another moment the hangings across the door were drawn
sharply back, and with a quick step, as one who went straight
to where he was expected and had a right to be, the intruder
entered the antechamber. It wore the form and appearance
of Strafford — it was Strafford — in dress, and mien, and step.
Taking no heed of Inglesant, crouched back in terror against
the carved chimney-piece, the apparition crossed the room
with a quick step, drew the hangings that screened the door of
the privy chamber, and disappeared. Inglesant recovered in a
moment, sprang across the room, and followed the figure through
the door. He saw nothing; but the two gentlemen raised themselves
from their couches, startled by his sudden appearance
and white, scared look, and said, "What is it, Mr. Esquire?"

Before Inglesant, who stood with eyes and mouth open, the
picture of terror, could recover himself, the curtain of the bedchamber
was drawn hastily back, and the Lord Abergavenny
suddenly appeared, saying in a hurried, startled voice : —

"Send for Mayernnnn; send for Dr. Mayernnnn, the King is
taken very ill ! "

Inglesant, who by this time was recovered sufficiently to
act, seized the opportunity to escape, and, hurrying through
the antechamber and down the staircase to the guard-room,
he found one of the pages, and despatched him for the Court
physician. He then returned to the guard at the top of the
staircase.

"Has any one passed?" he asked.

VOL. I. H

"No," the man said; "he had seen no one."
"Did you challenge no one a moment ago?"
The man looked scared, but finally acknowledged what
he feared at first to confess, lest it should be thought he had
been sleeping at his post, that he had become suddenly conscious
of, as it seemed to him, some presence in the room, and
found himself the next moment, to his confusion, challenging
the empty space.

Failing to make anything of the man, lnglesant returned
to the privy chamber, where Lord Abergavenny was relating
what had occurred.

I was reading to the King," he repeated, " and His
Majesty was very still, and I began to think he was falling
asleep, when he suddenly started upright in bed, grasped the
book on my knee with one hand, and with the other pointed
across the chamber to some object upon which his gaze was
fixed with a wild and horror-stricken look, while he faintly tried
to cry out. In a second the terror of the sight, whatever it was,
overcame him, and he fell back on the bed with a sharp cry."
Mr. lnglesant saw something," said both the gentlemen
at once ; " he came in here as you gave the alarm."

I saw nothing," said lnglesant ; " whatever frightened me
I must tell the King."

Dr. Mayernn, who lodged in the palace, soon arrived ; and
as the King was sensible when he came, he merely prescribed
some soothing drink, and soon left. The moment he was
gone the King called Abergavenny into the room alone to
him, and questioned him as to what had occurred. Aber-ravenna
told him all he knew, adding that the esquire in waiting,
Mr. lnglesant, was believed to have seen something by
the gentlemen of the privy chamber, whom he had aroused,
lnglesant was sent for, and found the King and Abergavenny
alone. He declined to speak before the latter, until the King
positively commanded him to do so. Deadly pale, with his

eyes on the ground, and speaking with the greatest difficulty,
he then told his story; of the deep silence, his restlessness,
the sentry's challenge, and the apparition that appeared.
Here he stopped.

And this figure," said Abergavenny in a startled whisper,
did you know who it was ?"

Yes, I knew him," said the young man ; " would to God
I had not."

"Who was it?"

Paler, if possible, than before, and with a violent effort,
Inglesant forced himself to look at the King.

A contortion of pain, short but terrible to see, passed over
the King's face, but he rose from the chair in which he sat (for
he had risen from the bed and even dressed himself) and,
with that commanding dignity which none ever assumed better
than he, he said, —

Who was it ? Mr. Esquire."

My Lord Strafford."

Abergavenny stepped back several paces, and covered his
face with his hands. No one spoke. Inglesant dared not
stir, but remained opposite to the King, trembling in every
limb, and his eyes upon the ground like a culprit. The King
continued to stand with his commanding air, but stiff and
rigid as a statue; it seemed as though he had strength to
command his outward demeanour, but no power besides.

The silence grew terrible. At last the King was able to
make a slight motion with his hand. Inglesant seized the
opportunity, and, bowing to the ground, retired backward to
the door. As he closed the door the King turned towards
Abergavenny, but the room was empty. The King was left
alone.

CHAPTER VII.

IN the beginning of 1642 the King left Whitehall finally,
and retired with the Queen to Hampton Court, from
which he went to the south to see Her Majesty embark, and
without returning to London proceeded to the north. Very
few attendants accompanied him, and Inglesant was left at
liberty to go where he pleased. His brother was in France,
and he was at the moment ignorant where the Jesuit was.
Several motives led him to go to Gidding, where he felt sure of
a welcome, though Mr. Ferrar was dead, and he accordingly
rode there in the end of March. Mr. Nicholas Ferrar jun.
had been dead nearly a year, having not long survived his
uncle, and the household was governed by Mr. John Ferrar,
Mr. Nicholas Ferrar's brother. Their usual quiet and holy
life seemed quieter and more holy ; a placid melancholy and
a sort of contented sorrow seemed to fill the place, which was
not disturbed even by those expectations of approaching
trouble and danger which all felt. They received Inglesant
with kindness and even affection, and begged him to remain
as long as he pleased. Mary Collet, who, secretly he acknowledged
to himself, was the principal reason of his coming down,
met him frankly, and seemed more attractive and beautiful
than before. He felt awed and quieted in her presence, yet
nothing was so delightful to him as to be in the room or garden
with her, and hear her speak. He endeavoured to assist
her in her work of attending to the poor and sick, and intending
the garden, and became like a brother to her, without

saying or desiring to say one word of gallantry or of love.
The Puritans of the neighbouring towns, who had always disliked
the Ferrara, came more frequently into their neighbourhood,
and endeavoured to set the country people against them,
and even to stir them up to acts of violence ; but the Ferrara
remarked that these annoyances were lessened by the efforts
of a Puritan gentleman, who was possessed of considerable
property in Peterborough, and who had latterly taken advantage
of several excuses to come to Little Gidding.

Inglesant saw this gentleman once or twice, and became
rather attracted towards him in a strange way. He appeared
to him to be a man in whom a perpetual struggle was going on
between his real nature and the system of religion which he
had adopted, but in whom the original nature had been subdued
and nearly extinguished, until some event, apparently of
recent occurrence, had renewed this conflict, and excited the
conquered human nature once more to rebellion. This alone
would have afforded sufficient interest and attraction to a man
of Inglesant's temperament; but this interest was increased
tenfold when he perceived, as he did very soon, that this disturbing
event and the reason which brought Mr. Thome to
Gidding, were in fact one and the same, the same indeed
which brought himself there — attraction to Mary Collet. The
peaceful half-religious devotion with which he regarded his
friend prevented him from being incited to any feeling of
jealousy by this discovery, and indeed would have made the
idea of such a sentiment and opposition almost ridiculous.
He treated Mr. Thorne, when they met at table or elsewhere,
with the most marked courtesy — a courtesy which the other
very imperfectly returned; at first ignoring Inglesant altogether,
and when this was no longer possible, taking every opportunity
to reprove and lecture him in the way the Puritans took upon
them to do, all of which Inglesant bore good-humouredly.
Things had gone on this way for several weeks, and Mr.

Thome's visits had grown less frequent, when one summer
afternoon he rode over, and after seeing Mr. John Ferrar,
came to seek Mary Collet. He found her and Inglesant
alone in one of the small reading parlours looking on the
garden. Inglesant had been reading aloud in Mr. Crashaw's
poems; but on the other's entering the room, he rose and stood
behind Mary Collet's chair, his hand resting on the high back.
His attitude probably annoyed Mr. Thorne, whose manner was
more severe and stern than usual He made the lady a formal
greeting, and took slight heed of Inglesant, who wished him
Good-day.

The days are far from good, sir," he said severely, " and
the night of the soul is dark ; nevertheless, there is a path
open to the saints of God, which will lead to a brighter time."

He looked hard at Mary Collet as he spoke.

I should hope, sir," said Inglesant, with a conciliatory
smile, "that you and I may one day stand together in a
brighter dawn."

The other's face slightly softened, for indeed the indescribable
charm of Inglesant's manner few could resist, but he
hardened himself instantly, and replied, —

It is a fond hope, sir. How can two walk together
unless they are agreed ? What fellowship is there between
the saints (however unworthy) and the followers of the pleasures
of this world ? And how may you, on whom the Prince
of this world has bestowed every brilliant gift and power, stand
at the resurrection amongst the poor and despised saints of
God?"

Mary Collet moved slightly, and put her hand back upon
the chair elbow, so that it partly and slightly touched Inglesant's
hand, at which movement, a spasm, as of pain, passed
over Mr. Thome's features, and he drew himself up more
sternly than before.

But I am idling my time vainly and sinfully here," he

said, " in chambering and wantonness, when I should be buckling
on my armour. Mistress Collet, I came here to wish you
farewell. I am going to London in the good cause, and I
shall in all human probability never see you more. I intreat
you to listen to the bridegroom's voice, and from my heart I
wish you God-speed."

As she rose, he pressed her hand lightly, and raised his
eyes to heaven, as the Puritans were ridiculed for doing ; then
he bowed stiffly to Inglesant, and was gone.

Inglesant followed him to the courtyard, where his horses
were standing, but he took no further notice of him, and rode
off through the gate. Johnny stood looking after him down
the alley, between the latticed walks of the garden. At last
he stopped and looked back. When he saw Inglesant still
there, he seemed to hesitate, but finally dismounted and led
his horse back. Inglesant hastened to meet him, with his
plumed hat in his hand.

Mr. Inglesant," said the Puritan, speaking slowly and
with evident hesitation, " I am going to say something which
will probably make you regard with increased contempt not
only myself, which you may well do, but the religion which I
profess to serve, but which I betray, in which last you will
commit a fatal sin. But before I say it, I beg of you, if a few
moments ago I said anything that was unnecessarily severe
and more than my Master would warrant, that you will forgive
it. Woe be to us if we falter in the truth, and speak pleasant
things when we should set our face as a flint ; nevertheless,
there is no need for us to go beyond the letter of the Spirit,
and I almost feel that the Lord has disowned my speech,
seeing that so soon after I fear I myself am fallen from Grace.

He stopped, and Inglesant wondered what this long preamble
might mean.

He assured him that he bore no ill-feeling, but very much
the contrary ; but the Puritan scarcely allowed him to finish

before he began again to speak, with still greater difficulty and
hesitation.

I came here to-day, sir, with the intention, at which I
have arrived not without long wrestling in prayer, of proposing
in the Lord's name a treaty of marriage with Mrs. Mary Collet.
In this I have sought direction, as I say, for a long time before
addressing her. At length, yesterday, sitting all alone, I felt
a word sweetly arise in me as if I heard a voice, which said,
Go and prevail !' and faith springing in my heart with the
word, I immediately arose and went, nothing doubting. But
when I came into her presence, and found her with you, upon
whom I have ofttimes apprehended that her affections were
fixed ; when I thought of the disadvantage at which doubtless,
in the world's eye at least, I should be thought to stand with
regard to you ; when I considered her breeding and education
in every sort of prelatical and papistical superstition — which
latter has all through been a great stumbling-block to me, and
to some others of the godly to whom I have opened this
matter; — when I thought of these things, I, wretched man
that I am ! I mistrusted the Lord's power. I was deaf to the
voice that spoke within me, and I left my message unsaid.
What my sin is in this cannot be told. It may be that I have
frustrated the Lord's will and purpose with regard to her, not
only as regards calling her out of that empty show and profession
in which she is, but, which doubtless will seem of more
force to you, of providing her with some refuge from the storm
which assuredly is not far from this household. I have
already, if you will believe me, done something in warding off
the first advances of that storm, and think I do not deceive
myself that I have power sufficient to continue to do so. I
entreat you, Mr. Inglesant, to think of this, if you have not
yet done so, for her sake, and not for mine." He spoke these
last words in a different manner, and with an altered voice, as
though they were not part of what he had originally intended

to say, but had been forced from him by the spectacle his
mind presented of danger to her whom it was evident he
unselfishly loved. " I am not so ignorant in the world's
ways," he went on, "as not to know how absurd such an
appeal to you must seem ; probably it will afford amusement
to your friends in after days. Nevertheless, I cannot refrain
myself. I am distracted between two opinions, and as I rode
away it came into my mind, that I might after all be flying
away from a shadow, and that there might be no such relation
between you as that which I have supposed — no other than
that of a free and fair friendship ; in which case I entreat you,
Mr. Inglesant, though I confess I have no right nor claim upon
you even for the commonest courtesy, to let me know it."

Inglesant had listened to this singular confession at first
with surprise, but as the man went on, he became profoundly
touched. There was something extremely pathetic in the
sight of the human nature in this man struggling within him
beneath the force of his Puritanism, the one now urging him
to conciliate, and the next moment the old habit breaking out
in insult and denunciation ; the one opening to him glimpses
of human happiness which the other immediately closed.
And what he said was doubtless very true, and pointed plainly
to Inglesant what men would say was his duty. What ground
had he to oppose himself to this man — he, with scarcely any
formed purpose of his own ? If the lofty Strafford had fallen,
and the Archbishop had proved powerless to protect himself,
how was he to protect any who might trust to him ? Even if
he had thought nothing of this, it would have been impossible
to have been angry with the distracted man before him,
untrained to conceal his thoughts, nay, taught by his religion
that self-restraint or concealment is a sin, and that to keep
back a word or a thought is a frustration of the will of God —
a training that would lay him open at every point before the
polished pupil of the Jesuit and the Court.

These reflections gave to his ordinary courtesy an additional
charm, which plainly commanded the confidence of his
rival, and he said, —

What do you wish me to do, Mr. Thorne ? I am willing
to leave everything to Mrs. Collet's decision."

I will take nothing on myself again," said the other ; " I
will leave everything in the Lord's hands. If it is His will
that we be brought together, we shall be so brought I will
not stay now — indeed I am in no fit state of mind — but in a
few days I will come again, and whatever the Lord shall do
in the meanwhile, His will be done."

The inconsistency of this last resolution with the denunciation
of the Ferrar family, and especially of Inglesant, which
he had before expressed, struck Inglesant as so extraordinary
that he began to doubt the sanity of his companion ; but finding
that Mr. Thorne was determined to go, he parted from
him with mutual courtesy, and returned at once into the house.

As he entered the room where Mary Collet was still sitting
alone, she looked up with a smile, and was about to
speak, no doubt to palliate the rudeness of their guest; but
seeing from his manner that something extraordinary had
occurred, she stopped, and Inglesant, who had resolved to tell
her all that the Puritan had said, began at once and related
simply, and, as closely as he could, word for word, what had
happened. As he went on, the sympathy which the strange
conflict he had witnessed in the other's breast had excited in
his own, and the feeling he had of the truth of the other's
power to protect, inspired his manner so that he spoke welland
eloquently of his rival's nature, and of the advantages
that alliance with him would bestow ; but honest as his purpose
was, no course more fatal to his rival's chance could
probably have been taken, while at the same time he seriously,
if he had any cause himself, jeopardised that also.

Mary Collet listened with ever increasing surprise, and

the light in her eyes died away to coldness as she continued
to look at Inglesant. Her calm look suffered no other change ;
but that acute perception which Inglesant's training had given
him — perception which the purest love does not always give —
showed him what was passing in his friend's mind : he stopped
suddenly in his pleading, and knew that he had said too much
not to say more. He sank on the ground before the chair,
and rested his hands upon the carved elbow, with his face, to
which excitement gave increased beauty, raised to Mary
Collet's eyes.

It is all true, Mary," he said. It was the first time he had
called her by her name, and it sounded so sweetly that he said
it again. "It is all true, Mary ; I might have spoken to you
of another, would many times have spoken, if all this had not
been true. As he said to me, dark days are coming on, the
State is shaken to its base, the highest in the realm are disgraced
and ruined, and even harried to death; what will
happen the wisest heads cannot think ; the King is a fugitive ;
I am all but penniless, should be homeless but for you. This
even is not all ; if it had been I might have spoken, but there
is more which must be told. I am not my own. I am but
the agent of a mighty will, of a system which commands unhesitating
obedience — obedience which is part of my very being.
I cannot even form the thought of violating it. This is why,
often, when I tried to speak, my tongue refused its office, my
conscience roused itself to keep me still. But if, happily forme,
I have been wrong ; if, even for me, the gates of heaven
may still open, — the gates that I have thought were inexorably
closed, — I dare not face the radiance that even now issues
through the opening space. Mary, you know me better than
I know myself; I am ignorant and sinful and worldly ; you are
holy as a saint of God. Do with me what you will, if there
is anything in me worthy of you, take me and make it more
worthy; if not, let me go : either way I am yours — my life

belongs to you — neither life nor death is anything to me except
as it may advantage you."

The light shone full on Mary Collet's face, looking down
on him as he spoke. The odour of the garden flowers filled
the room. The stillness of the late afternoon was unbroken,
save by the murmur of insect life. Her eyes — those wonderful
eyes that had first attracted him in the Church — grew larger
and more soft as they looked down on him with a love and
tenderness which he had never seen before, and saw only once
again. For some seconds she did not — perhaps could not —
speak, for the great lustrous eyes were moist with tears. He
would have lain there for ever with no thought but of those
kindly eyes. At last she spoke, and her voice was tender, but
low and calm; "Johnny," — it was the first time she had called
him so, and she said it twice, — "Johnny, you were right, I know
you better than you know yourself. Your first instinct was
right ; but it was not your poverty, nor the distraction of the
time, nor yet this mysterious fate that governs you, which kept
you silent ; poverty and the troubles of the times we might
have suffered together; this mysterious fate we might have
borne together, or have broken through. No," she continued
with a radiant smile, " cavalier and courtier as you are, you
also, in spite of Mr. Thorne, have heard a voice behind you
saying, ' This is the way, walk in it.' That way, Johnny, you
will never leave for me. As this voice told you, this is not a
time for us to spend our moments like two lovers in a play ;
we have both of us other work to do, work laid out for us,
from which we may not shrink ; a path to walk in where there
is neither marrying nor giving in marriage. As for me, if I
can follow in any degree in the holy path my uncle walked in,
growing more into the life of Jesus as he grew into it, it is
enough for me ; as for you, you will go on through the dark
days that are at hand, as your way shall lead you, and as the
divine voice shall call; and when I hear your name, as I

shall hear it, Johnny, following as the divine call shall lead,
you may be sure that my heart will beat delightedly at the
name of a very noble gentleman who loves me, and whom
—I love."

The evening sun that lighted all the place went down
suddenly behind the hedges of the garden, and the room grew
dark.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE manner of life at Gidding went on after this without
the least alteration, and Inglesant's position in the
family remained the same. Two or three days after, Mr.
Thorne returned, and had an interview with Mary Collet alone.
She told him she had not thought of marriage with any one,
but had dedicated her life to other work. He attempted a
flowing discourse upon the evils of celibacy, and managed to
destroy by his manner much of the kindly feeling which Mary
had conceived for him. He met John Ferrar and Inglesant
coming from the Church, and Inglesant tried to exchange
some kindly words with him ; but he avoided conversation with
him, and soon left. Inglesant passed most of his time (for he
was not quite so much with Mary Collet as before) in reading,
especially in Greek, and in assisting some of the family in preparing
that great book, which was afterwards presented to
Prince Charles. The influence of Mr. Hobbes's conversation
wore off in the peaceful religious talk and way of life of this
family. It was here that he had first obtained glimpses of
what the divine life might be, and it was here alone that he
felt any power of approach to it in his own heart His love
for Mary Collet, which was increased tenfold by the acknowledgment
she had made to him, and which grew more and
more every day that he spent at Gidding, associated as it was
with all the teachings and incidents of these quiet holy days,
made this life of devotion more delightful than can be told,
and, indeed, made that life more like to heaven than any other

that Inglesant ever lived. As he knelt in Church during the
calm hours of prayer, and now and again looked up into Mary
Collet's face from where he knelt, he often felt as though he
had found the Beatific Vision already, and need seek no more,
so closely was her beauty connected with all that was pure and
holy in his heart. In these happy days all pride and trouble
seemed to have left him, and he felt free in heart from all self-will
and sin. It was a dream and unreal, doubtless ; but it
was allowed him not altogether without design, perhaps, in the
divine counsel, and it could not be without fruit in his
spiritual life.

The long summer days that passed so quietly at Gidding
were days of disturbance all over England, the King's friends
and those of the Parliament endeavouring to secure the counties
for one or other of the contending parties. Nearly the whole
of the eastern counties were so strong for the Parliament that
the King's friends had little chance, and those gentlemen who
attempted to raise men or provide arms for the King were
crushed in the beginning. But Huntingdonshire was more
loyal, and considerable preparation had been made by several
gentlemen, among others Sir Capet Betel and Richard Stone,
the High Sheriff, to repair to the King's quarters when the
standard should be set up. Inglesant was waiting to hear
from his brother, who had returned from France, and was in
Wiltshire with the Lord Pembroke, who had set in force the
commission of array in that county. Inglesant would have
joined him but for the close neighbourhood of the King, who
might be expected in those parts every day. Accordingly, one
afternoon, the King, accompanied by the Prince, afterwards
Charles the Second, and the Duke of Lennox, and by Prince
Rupert, whom some called the Palsgrave after his father, came
to Huntingdon. Inglesant rode into Huntingdon that evening,
and found the King playing at cards with the Palsgrave. The
King received him graciously, and spoke to him privately of

Father St. Clare, who had latterly, he said, been very active
among the Catholics of Shropshire and Staffordshire, from
whom he soon expected to receive large sums of money. He
said the Jesuit had told him where Inglesant was, and that he
intended on the next day to come by Little Gidding on his
way, and should spend some hours there, as he was very
desirous again to see a place which had so pleased him, and
of whose inmates he had formed so high an opinion from
what he had seen of them. Inglesant slept that night in
Huntingdon, but very early on the fine summer morning he
rode out to Little Gidding to warn the family of the honour
that was intended them. Accordingly, about noon, they saw
from the windows of the house the royal party approaching at
the bottom of the hill. The whole family went out to meet
them to the boundary of the lordship at a little bridge that
spans the brook.

When the King approached foremost of all, they went to
meet him, and kneeling down, prayed God to bless and preserve
His Majesty, and keep him safe from his enemy's malice.
The King rode up the hill at a foot pace, and alighted at the
Chapel, which he examined carefully, and was then shown over
the whole house, being particularly pleased with the almshouses,
for whose inmates he left five pieces of gold, saying it was all
he had. He had won them from the Palsgrave the night
before at cards.

When he was come into the house, the great book that
was being prepared for the Prince was brought him, and he
spent some time in examining it and admiring the prints of
which it was full, pointing out to the Palsgrave, who appeared
to understand such things, the different style of each engraver.
When he had sufficiently admired the book and walked about
the house, admiring the pleasant situation upon a little hill,
the sun beginning to go down, the horses were brought to the
door, and the King and the rest mounted. The whole family,

men and women, knelt down as the King mounted, and prayed
God to bless and defend him from his enemies, and give him
a long and happy reign. " Ah ! " said the King, raising his
hat, " pray for my safe and speedy return again," and so rode
away, not knowing that he should return there again once
more, in the very dead of night, a fugitive, and almost alone.
*****

When John Inglesant had said to Mary Collet that he
was almost penniless, he had used rather a strong hyperbole,
for at that time the sum of money his father had left him was
almost untouched. Upon leaving London, he had managed
to get it transferred from the goldsmith with whom he had
deposited it to another at Oxford, by a bill of exchange on
the latter, as was the custom in transmitting sums of money in
those days. This bill being now due, Inglesant decided on
going to Oxford to secure possession of the money. He
lodged at first at Mr. Martin Lippiard's, a famous apothecary ;
but after a few days he entered himself at Wadham College,
where he got rooms which were of great use to him afterwards,
when the Court came to Oxford.

No place could have been found which offered more to
interest and delight a man of Inglesant's temperament than
Oxford did at this time. It was still at the height of that
prosperity which it had enjoyed under the King and Laud for
so many years, but which was soon to be so sadly overcast.
The colleges were full of men versed and intelligent in all
branches of learning and science, as they were then taught.
The halls and chapels were full of pictures and of rich plate
soon to be melted down; the gardens and groves were in
beautiful order, and the bowling greens well kept. The utmost
loyalty to Church and State existed. Many old customs of the
Papists' times, soon to be discontinued, still survived. One of
the scholars sang the Gospel for the day in Hall at the latter
end of dinner. The musical services in the Chapels on Sun-vol.

1. 1

days, Holy Days, and Holy Day Eves, were much admired,
and the subject of great care. Music was studied deeply as a
science, antiquity and every foreign country being ransacked
for good music, and every gentleman pretending to some
knowledge of it. The High Church party, which reigned
supreme, were on excellent terms with the Papists, and indeed
they were so much alike that they mixed together without
restraint. No people in England were more loyal, orthodox,
and observant of the ceremonies of the Church of England
than the scholars and generality of the inhabitants.

Every kind of curious knowledge was eagerly pursued ;
many of the Fellows' rooms were curious museums of antiquities
and relics, and scarce books and manuscripts. Alchemy
and astrology were openly practised, and more than one Fellow
had the reputation of being able to raise Spirits. The niceties
of algebra and the depths of metaphysics were inquired into
and conversed upon with eagerness, and strange inquiries upon
religion welcomed. Dr. Cressy, of Merton, was the first who
read Socinus's books in England, and is said to have converted
Lord Falkland, who saw them in his rooms. A violent controversy
was going on among the physicians, and new schools
had risen up who practised in chemical remedies instead of
the old-fashioned vegetable medicines.

The members of the University had put themselves into
array and a posture of defence, for as yet there was no garrison
at Oxford, and divers parties of soldiers were passing through
the country, sent by the Parliament to secure Banbury and
Warwick. The deputy Vice-chancellor called before him in
the public schools every one who had arms, and the recruits
were trained in the quadrangles of the colleges and other places.
Matters being in this state, late in October, in the middle of the
week, news reached Oxford that the King had left Shrewsbury
with his army, and was marching through Warwickshire on his
way to London. The Parliamentary army was following from

Worcester, and, as was thought, the two armies would soon
engage. Numbers of volunteers immediately started to meet
the King's army ; many of the undergraduates stealing out of
Oxford secretly, and setting forth on foot. Inglesant joined
himself to a company of gentlemen who had horses, and who,
with their servants, made quite a troop.

Some way out of Oxford he overtook a young undergraduate,
the elder brother of Anthony Wood, afterwards the famous
antiquary (who had stolen out of Oxford as above), and made
one of his servants take him up behind him. They went by
Woodstock and Chipping Norton, and slept the Friday night
at Shipston-upon-Stour, and early the next morning obtained
news of the royal army, which arrived under the Wormleighton
Hills in the evening of Saturday. The King lodged that night
at Sir William Chauncey's, at Ratoll Bridge, some distance from
the army, where Inglesant went late in the evening. These
quiet woodland places, some of the most secluded in England,
both then and now — so much so, that it was said in those days
that wolves even were found there — were disturbed unwonted
bustle these dark October nights, parties marching and counter-marching,
recruits and provisions arriving. It was not known
where Lord Essex's army was, but after it was dark it was
discovered by the Prince of Wales's regiment, which had been
quartered in two or three villages under Wormleighton Hills.
The whole regiment was drawn out into the fields, and
remained there all night, provisions being brought to them
from the villages, and news was sent to the King and Prince
Rupert.

At Sir William Chauncey's Inglesant found the Jesuit and
some other Catholic gentlemen whom he knew; for the number
of Papists in the royal army was very great. Father Hall was
dissatisfied at seeing Inglesant, and tried hard to persuade him
to keep out of the battle, saying he had different and more
useful work for him to do ; but Inglesant would not consent,

though he agreed not to expose himself unnecessarily. The
Jesuit told him that his brother was with the Prince's regiment,
but counselled him not to join him, but stay in the King's
bodyguard, which his place at Court might well account for his
doing. He enlarged so much upon the coming danger, that
Inglesant, who had never seen a battle, became quite timid,
and was glad when the Jesuit was sent for to the King.
Inglesant slept in a farm house, not far from Sir William's, with
several other gentlemen, — for those were fortunate who had half
a bed, — and on the morning rode with the King's pensioners
to the top of Edgehill. The Church bells were ringing for
morning service as they rode along. The King was that day
in a black velvet coat lined with ermine, and a steel cap,
covered with velvet. He rode to every brigade of horse and to
all the tertian of foot, and spoke to them with great courage and
cheerfulness, to which the army responded with loud huzzahs.
An intense feeling of excitement prevailed as this battle — the
first fought in England for more than a century — was joined.
Numbers of country people crowded the heights, and the army
was full of volunteers who had only just joined, and had no
idea of war. The King was persuaded with difficulty to remain
on a rising-ground at some little distance, with his guard of
pensioners on horseback ; but Inglesant did not remain with
him, but joined his brother in the Prince's regiment under the
Palsgrave, and rode in the charge against the enemy's horse,
whom the Prince completely routed and chased off the field.
Inglesant, however, did not share in the glory of this victory, for
his horse was killed under him at the first shock of the encounter,
and he went down with him, and received more than
one kick from the horses' hoofs as they passed over him,
rendering him for some time senseless. On recovering himself
he managed to get on his feet, and crossed the field to the
royal foot, but unfortunately joined the foot guards at the
moment they were attacked and routed by the Parliamentary

horse and foot. The Earl of Lindsay and his son were taken
prisoners, and the royal Standard was taken. At this moment
the King was in great danger, being with fewer than a hundred
horse within half a musket shot of the enemy. The two
regiments of his reserve, however, came up, and Charles was
desirous of charging the enemy himself. Inglesant remained
with the broken regiment of the guard who retreated up the
road over the hill, along which the enemy's horse advanced,
but, the early October evening setting in, the enemy desisted
and fell back upon their reserves. It was a hard frost that
night, and very cold. The King's army marched up the hills
which they had come down so gallantly in the morning.
Inglesant remained with the broken foot guards and the rest
of the foot, which were confusedly mixed together, all night.
The men made fires all along the hill top to warm themselves,
and gathered round them in strange and motley groups. Many
of the foot were very badly armed, the Welshmen, especially,
having only pitchforks and many only clubs ; but Prince
Rupert the next day made a descent upon Keinton, and
carried off several waggon loads of arms, which were very useful.
The officers and men were mixed up together round the fires
without distinction. As Inglesant was standing by one of them
stiff and stunned with the blows he had received, and weak from
a sabre cut he had received on the arm, he heard some one who
had come up to the fire inquiring for him by name. It was
the Jesuit, who had given him up for dead, as he had met
his brother who had returned with Prince Rupert when he
rejoined the King, and had learnt from him that Inglesant had
fallen In the first charge. He told him that Eustace had gone
down into the plain to endeavour to find him, which surprised
and touched Inglesant very much, as he suspected his brother
of caring very little for him. Father St. Clare stayed with
Inglesant at the fire all night, for the latter was too stiff to
move, £nd made himself quite at home with the soldiers, as he

could with people of every sort, telling them stories and encouraging
them with hopes of high pay and rewards when the
King had once marched to London and turned out the
Parliament. Inglesant dozed off to sleep and woke up again
several times during this strange night, with a confused consciousness
of the flaring fire lighting up the wild figures, and
the Jesuit still talking and still unwearied all through the
night.

One of the first men he saw in the morning was Edward
Wood, whom he had helped on his way from Oxford. This
young man had been much more fortunate than Inglesant, for
he had come on foot without arms, and he had succeeded in
getting a good horse and accoutrements.

You are much more lucky than I am," said Inglesant ; " I
have lost my horses and servants and all my arms, and am
beaten and wounded, as you see, till I can scarcely stand,
while you seem to have made your fortune."

I shall certainly get a commission," said the young man,
who was only eighteen, and certainly was very much pleased
with himself; "but never mind, Mr. Inglesant," he continued
patronizingly, " it is your first battle, as it is mine, and you. have
no doubt learnt much from it that will be useful to you.'"'

It had been one of the principal parts of Inglesant's tr, aiming
to avoid assumption himself, and to be amused with! it in
others, so he took his patronage meekly, and wished him success
on his return, to Oxford, where he really was made an office**
in the King's service soon after.

Soon after he was gone Inglesant found his brother, and
with him his own servants, with an additional horse they had
managed to secure, with which he replaced the one lie had
lost ; and the next morning he rode with the Palsgrave into
Keinton, where they surprised the rear of the Parliamentary
army, and took much spoil of the arms and ammunition, and
many wounded officers and other prisoners ; but his wound

being very painful, and being sick and weary of the sight of
fighting, and especially of plundering, he left the Prince in
Keinton and returned to Oxford, where he was very glad to
get back to his pleasant rooms in Wadham. After the King
had wasted his time in taking Banbury and Boughton Castle,
he marched to Oxford with his army, where he was received
with demonstrations of joy, and stayed some days.

After the King had rested a short time at Oxford, he proceeded
to march to London ; but Inglesant did not accompany
him. The blows he had received about the head, together
with his wound and the excitement he had gone through,
brought on a fever which kept him in his rooms for some time.
The Jesuit stayed with him as long as he could, but many other
of Inglesant's friends at Oxford showed him great kindness.
When he recovered he found himself, to his great surprise,
something of a hero. Though, as we have seen, few men could
have done less at Edgehill than Inglesant did, or have had less
influence on the event of the day, yet, as he had been in the
charge of the Prince's horse, and also in the rout of the foot
guards, and had been wounded in both, and above all was,
especially with the ladies, something of a favourite, of whom
no one objected to say a good word, he gained a decided
reputation as a soldier. It was indeed reported and believed
at Little Gidding that he had performed prodigies of valour, had
saved the King's life several times, and retrieved the fortunes
of the day when they were desperate. In some respects this
reputation was decidedly inconvenient to him ; he was looked
upon as a likely man to be in all foraging parties and in expeditions
of observation sent out to trace the marching and
countermarchings of the enemy. Now, as he was pledged to
the Jesuit not to expose himself to unnecessary danger, these
expeditions were very troublesome to him, besides taking him
away from the studies to which he was anxious to apply himself,
and from the company of the leaders of both the Churchmen

and Papists, to obtain the acquaintance and confidence of
whom he still applied himself, both from inclination and in
accordance with the Jesuit's wish. It is true, however, that in
these expeditions about the country he formed several friendships
of this kind, which might afterwards be useful.

CHAPTER IX.

THE King returned to Oxford in December, and the Court
was established at Christ Church College. There has
perhaps never existed so curious a spectacle as Oxford presented
during the residence of the King at the time of the
civil war. A city unique in itself became the resort of a Court
under unique circumstances, and of an innumerable throng of
people of every rank, disposition, and taste, under circumstances
the most extraordinary and romantic. The ancient
colleges and halls were thronged with ladies and courtiers ;
noblemen lodged in small attics over baker's shops in the
streets ■ soldiers were quartered in the college gates and in the
kitchens; yet, with all this confusion, there was maintained both
something of a courtly pomp, and something of a learned and
religious society. The King dined and supped in public, and
walked in state in Christ Church meadow and Merton Gardens
and the Grove of Trinity, which the wits called Daphne. A
Parliament sat from day to day ; service was sung daily in all
the Chapels ; books both of learning and poetry were printed
in the city ; and the distinctions which the colleges had to offer
were conferred with pomp on the royal followers, as almost the
only rewards the King had to bestow. Men of every opinion
nocked to Oxford, and many foreigners came to visit the King.
There existed in the country a large and highly intelligent
body of moderate men, who hovered between the two parties,
and numbers of these were constantly in Oxford, — Harrington,

the philosopher, the King's friend, Hobbes, Lord Falkland,
Lord Paget, the Lord Keeper, and many others.

Mixed up with these grave and studious persons, gay
courtiers and gayer ladies jostled old and severe divines and
college heads, and crusty tutors used the sarcasms they had
been wont to hurl at their pupils to reprove ladies whose conduct
appeared to them at least far from decorous. Christmas
interludes were enacted in Hall, and Shakespeare's plays performed
by the King's players, assisted by amateur performers ;
and it would have been difficult to say whether the play was
performed before the curtain or behind it, or whether the
actors left their parts behind them when the performance was
over, or then in fact resumed them. The groves and walks of
the colleges, and especially Christ Church meadow and the
Grove at Trinity, were the resort of this gay and brilliant
throng ; the woods were vocal with song and music, and love
and gallantry sported themselves along the pleasant river banks.
The poets and wits vied with each other in classic conceits and
parodies, wherein the events of the day and every individual
incident were pourtrayed and satirized. Wit, learning, and
religion joined hand in hand as in some grotesque and brilliant
masque. The most admired poets and players and the
most profound mathematicians became " Romanists " and
monks, and exhausted all their wit and poetry and learning in
furthering their divine mission, and finally, as the last scenes
of this strange drama came on, fell fighting on some hardly-contested
grassy slope, and were buried on the spot, or in the
next village churchyard, in the dress in which they played
Pilaster, or the Court garb in which they wooed their mistress,
or the doctor's gown in which they preached before the King,
or read Greek in the schools.

This gaiety was much increased the next year, when the
Queen came to Oxford, and the last happy days of the ill-fated
monarch glided by. It was really no inapt hyperbole of

the classic wits which compared this motley scene to the
marriage of Jupiter and Juno of old, when all the Gods were
invited to the feast, and many noble personages besides, but
to which also came a motley company of mummers, maskers,
fantastic phantoms, whispers, thieves, runners, gulls, wizards,
and monsters, and among the rest Crystals, a Persian Prince,
bravely attended, clad in rich and gay attire, and of majestic
presence, but otherwise an ass; whom the Gods at first,
seeing him enter in such pomp, rose and saluted, taking
him for one worthy of honour and high place; and whom
Jupiter, perceiving what he was, turned with his retinue into
butterflies, who continued in pied coats roving about among
the Gods and the wiser sort of men. Something of this kind
here happened, when wisdom and folly, vice and piety, learning
and gaiety, terribly earnest even to death and light frivolity,
jostled each other in the stately precincts of Parnassus and
Olympus.

With every variety and shade of this strange life Inglesant
had some acquaintance ; the philosophers knew him, the Papists
confided in him; Cave, the writer of news-letters for the Papists,
sought him for information ; the Church party, who knew his
connection with the Archbishop, and the services he had
rendered him, sought his company; the ladies made use of
his handsome person and talents for acting, as they did also
that of his brother. He had the entree to the King at all
times, and was supposed to be a favourite with Charles, though
in reality the King's feelings towards him were of a mixed
nature. No man certainly was better known at Oxford, and
no man certainly knew more of what was going on in England
than Inglesant did.

Among the chief beauties of the Court the Lady Isabella
Thynne was the most conspicuous and the most enterprizing :
the poet Waller sang her praise, music was played before her
as she walked, and she affected the garb and manner of an

angel. She was most beautiful, courteous, and charitable ; but
she allowed her gaiety and love of intrigue to lead her into
very equivocal positions. She was intimately acquainted with
Eustace Inglesant, who was one of her devoted servants, and
assisted her in many of her gaieties and gallant festivals and
sports ; but she was shy of Johnny, and told Eustace that his
brother was too much of a monk for her taste. She had a
bevy of ladies, who were her intimate friends, and were generally
with her, some of whom she did not improve by her
friendship.

There was in Oxford a gentleman, a Mr. Richard Bentham,
who was afterwards knighted, a member of the Prince's council,
and a person of great trust with the King. This gentleman
had been at school with Eustace Inglesant at that famous
schoolmaster's, Mr. Farnabie, in Cripplegate Parish in London,
a school at one time frequented by more than three hundred
young noblemen and gentlemen, for whose accommodation he
had handsome houses and large gardens. One day Bentham
took Eustace Inglesant to call on two young ladies, the
daughters of Sir John Harris, who had lately come to Oxford
to join their father, who had suffered heavy losses in the royal
cause, and had been made a baronet They found these two
young ladies, to the eldest of whom Fentham was engaged, ina
baker's house in an obscure street, ill-furnished and mean-looking.
They were both, especially the eldest, extremely
beautiful, and had been brought up in a way equal to any
gentlemen's daughters in England, so that the gentlemen could
not help condoling with them on this lamentable change of
fortune, to which they were reduced by their father's devotion
to the royal cause. The eldest young lady, Ann, a spirited,
lively girl, confessed it was " a great change from a large well-furnished
house to a very bad bed in a garret, and from a
plentiful table to one dish of meat — and that not the best
ordered, — with no money, for they were as poor as Job, and had

no clothes," she said, " but what a man or two had brought in
the cloak bags." Eustace Inglesant pursued the acquaintance
thus begun ; and both he and his brother were at Wolverton
Church some time afterwards, when Richard Fentham and
Mistress Ann were married in the presence of Sir Edward
Hyde, afterwards the Lord Chancellor, and Geoffry Palmer,
the King's attorney. Lady Fentham was much admired and
sought after, and became one of Lady Isabella's intimate
friends. She was a lively, active girl, and fond of all kinds of
stirring exercise and excitement, and was peculiarly liable to
be led into scrapes in such society. Besides Lady Isabella, she
was also exposed to other temptations from political ladies, who
endeavoured to persuade her that a woman of her talent and
energy should take some active part in public affairs, and get
her husband to trust to her the secrets of the Prince's Council.
They succeeded so far as to cause her to press her husband on
this matter, and to cause some unpleasant feeling on her part,
which, but for his kind and forgiving conduct, might have led
to a serious breach. This danger passed over, but those
springing from the acquaintance with Lady Isabella were much
more serious. Sir Richard was much away at Bristol with the
Prince, and during his absence Lady Isabella promoted an

intimacy between Lord H , afterwards the Duke of

P , and her young friend. In this she was assisted by

Eustace Inglesant, who appeared to be actuated by some very
strange personal motive, which Johnny, who saw a great deal
of what was going on, could not penetrate.

Matters were in this state when one day Shakespeare's play
of " The Comedy of Errors," or an adaptation of it, was given
by the gentlemen of the Court, assisted by the King's players,
in the Hall at Christ Church. The parts of the brothers Anti-pious
were taken by the two Inelegant, who were still said
to be so exactly alike that mistakes were continually being
made between them. The play was over early, and the brilliant

company streamed out into the long walk at Christ
Church, which was already occupied by a motley throng. The
players mingled with the crowd, and solicited compliments on
their several performances. The long avenue presented a singular
and lively scene — ladies, courtiers, soldiers in buff coats,
clergymen in their gowns and bands, doctors of law and
medicine in their hoods, heads of houses, beggars, mountebanks,
jugglers and musicians, popish priests, college servants,
country gentlemen, Parliament men, and townspeople, all confusedly
intermixed ; with the afternoon sun shining across the
broad meadow, under the rustling leaves, and lighting up the
windows of the Colleges and the windings of the placid river
beyond.

John Inglesant, in the modern Court dress in which, according
to the fashion of the day, he had played Antipodes of
Ephesus, was speaking to Lord Falkland, who had not been at
the play, but who, grave and melancholy, with his dress
neglected and in disorder, was speaking of the death of Hampden,
which had just occurred, when a page spoke to Inglesant,
telling him that Lady Isabella desired his presence instantly.
Rather surprised, Inglesant followed him to where the lady was
walking, a little apart from the crowd, in a path across the
meadows leading from the main walk. She smiled as Inglesant
came up.

I see, Mr. Esquire Inglesant," she said, " that the play is
not over. It was your brother I sent for, whom this stupid
boy seemingly has sought in Ephesus and not in England."

I am happy for once to have supplanted my brother,
madam," said Johnny, adapting from his part. " I have run
hither to your grace, whom only to see now gives me ample
satisfaction for these deep shames and great indignities."

I am afraid of you, Mr. Inglesant," said the lady ; " you
have so high a reputation with grave and religious people, and
yet you are a better cavalier than your brother, when you condescend

that way. That is how you please the Nuns of
Gidding so well."

Spare the poor Nuns of Gidding your raillery, madam,"
said Inglesant ; " surely Venus Aphrodite is not jealous of the
gentle dove."

I will not talk with you, Mr. Inglesant," said the lady
pettishly; "find your brother, I beseech you; his wit is duller
than yours, but it is more to my taste."

Inglesant went to seek his brother, but before he found
him his attention was arrested from behind, and turning round

he found his scarf held by Lord H , who said at once,

Is the day fixed, and the place? have you seen the lady?"

"My lord," said Inglesant, "the play really is over, though
no one will believe it. ' I think you all have drunk of Circe's
Cup.' I am afraid as many mishaps wait me here as at
Ephesus."

Lord H saw his mistake. "I beg your pardon,"

he said ; " I took you for your brother, who has some business
of mine in hand I wish you good day."

I must get to the bottom of the mischief that is brewing,"
said Inglesant; "there is some mystery which I cannot fathom.
The lady no doubt is pretty Lady Fentham, but Eustace surely
can never mean to betray his friend in so foul a way as this."

That evening he sought his brother, and telling him all he
had noticed, and what he had overheard, he begged him to tell
him the plain facts of what was going on, lest he might add
to the confusion in his ignorance. Eustace hesitated a little,
but at last he told him all.

There is no real harm intended, except by Lord

H ," he said; " Lady Isabella simply wants to make

mischief and confusion all around her. She has persuaded

Ann Fentham to encourage Lord H a little, to lead

him into a snare in which he is to be exposed to ridicule.
There is a lady in Oxford, whom you no doubt know, Lady

Cardiff, whom, if you know her, you know to be one of the
most fantastic women now living, to bring whom into connection
with Lord H Mrs. Fentham has conceived would

be great sport; now, to tell you a secret, this lady, who
entered into this affair merely for excitement and sport, is
gradually becoming attached to me. I intend to marry her
with Lady Isabella's help. She has an immense fortune and
large parks and houses, and has connections on both sides in
this war, so that her property is safe whatever befalls. This
is a profound secret between me and the Lady Isabella, who
is under obligations to me. Mrs. Fentham knows nothing of

it, and is occupied solely with bringing Lord H and

Lady Cardiff together. The ladies are going down to Newnham

tomorrow. I meet them there, and Lord H is

to be allowed to come. I intend to press my suit to Lady
Cardiff, and certainly by this I shall spoil Lady Fentham's
plot ; but this is all the harm I intend. What will happen
besides I really cannot say, but nothing beyond a little honest
gallantry, doubtless."

But is not such sport very dangerous?" said John. " Suppose
this intimacy came to Richard Fentham's ears, what
would he say to it? You told me there had already been
some mischief made by some of the women between them."

"If he hears of it," said Eustace, carelessly, " it can be
explained to him easily enough ; he is no fool, and is not the
man to misunderstand an innocent joke."

Inglesant was not satisfied, but he had nothing more to
say, and changed the subject by inquiring about Lady Cardiff,
of whom he knew little.

This lady was a peeress in her own right, having inherited
the title and estates from her father. She had been carefully
educated, and was learned in many languages. She had acted
all her life from principles laid down by herself, and different
from those which governed the actions of other people. She

had bad health, suffering excruciating pain at frequent intervals
from headache, which it is supposed unsettled her reason. At
her principal seat, Oulton, in Dorsetshire, she collected around
her celebrities and uncommon persons, " Eccentric " as they
were called, principally great physicians and quacks, and
religious persons and mystic theologians. Van Helmont, the
great alchemist, spent much time there, attempting to cure her
disorder or allay her sufferings, and Dr. Henry More of Cambridge
condescended to reside some time at Oulton. It was
a great freestone house, surrounded by gardens, and by a park
or rather chase of great extent, enclosing large pieces of water,
and surrounded by wooded and uncultivated country for many
miles. At the time at which we are arrived, however, her
health was better than it afterwards became, and she was
chiefly ambitious of occupying an important position in politics,
and of seeing every species of life. She was connected with
some of the principal persons on both sides in the civil contention,
and passed much time both in London and in Oxford.
In both these places, but especially in the royal quarters,
where greater license was possible, she endeavoured to be
included in anything of an exciting and entertaining character
that was going on. "Whatever it was, it afforded her an insight
into human nature and the manners of the world. Such a
character does not seem a likely one to be willing to submit
to the restraints of the married life, and indeed Lady Cardiff
had hitherto rejected the most tempting offers, and, as she had
attained the mature age of thirty-two, most people imagined
that she would not at that time of life exchange her condition.
It appeared, however, that her fate had at last met her in the
handsome person of Eustace Inglesant, and the secret which
Eustace had told his brother was already beginning to be
whispered in Oxford, and opinions were divided as to whether
the boldness of the young man or his good fortune were the
most to be admired.

vol. 1. K

When Inglesant left his brother and walked under the
starry sky to his lodgings at Wadham, his mind was ill at ease.
He had taken a great interest in Lady Fentham and her husband
; indeed, his feelings towards the former were those of an
attached friend, attracted by her lively innocence and good
nature. He was, as the reader will remember, still very young,
being only in his twenty-second year. He was sincerely and
vitally religious, though his religion might appear to be kept
in subordination to his taste, and he had formed for himself,
from various sources, an ideal of purity, which in his mind
connected earth to heaven, and which, at this period of his
life at any rate, he may have been said faultlessly to have
carried out. The circumstances of his youth and early training,
which we have endeavoured to trace, acting upon a constitution
in which the mental power dominated, rendered self-restraint
natural to him, or rather rendered self-restraint needless.
It was one of the glories of that age that it produced
such men as he was, and that not a few ; men who combined
qualities such as, perhaps, no after age ever saw united ; men
like George Herbert, Nicholas Ferrar, Falkland, the unusual
combination of the courtier and the monk. Yet these men
were naturally in the minority, and even while moulding their
age, were still regarded by their age with wonder and a certain
kind of awe. It is not meant that John Inglesant was altogether
a good specimen of this high class of men, for he was
more of a courtier than he was of a saint. He was a sincere
believer in a holy life, and strongly desirous of pursuing it ; he
endeavoured conscientiously to listen for the utterances of the
Divine Voice ; and provided that Voice pointed out the path
which his tastes and training had prepared him to expect, he
would follow it even at a sacrifice to himself; but he was not
capable of a sacrifice of his tastes or of his training. On the
other hand, as a courtier and man of the world, he was profoundly
tolerant of error and even of vice (provided the latter

did not entail suffering on any innocent victim), looking upon
it as a natural incident in human affairs. This quality had its
good side, in making him equally tolerant of religious differences,
so that, as has been seen, it was not difficult to him to
recognize the Divine prompting in a Puritan and an opponent.
He was acutely sensitive to ridicule, and would as soon have
thought of going to Court in an improper dress as of speaking
of religion in a mixed company, or of offering any advice or
reproof to any one. In the case which was now disturbing
his mind, his chief fear was of making himself ridiculous by
interfering where no interference was necessary.

He passed a restless night, and the next morning went to
Trinity Chapel, then much frequented for the high style of the
music. He was scarcely here before Lady Isabella and young
Lady Fentham, who lodged in that college, came in, as was
their habit, dressed to resemble angels in loose and very
inadequate attire. At another time he might not have thought
much of it, but, his suspicions being aroused, he could not
help, courtier as he was, contrasting the boldness of this
behaviour with the chaste and holy life of the ladies at Little
Gidding; and it made him still more restless and uncertain
what to do. He avoided the ladies after Chapel, and returned
to his own rooms quite uncertain how to act. It came at last
into his mind to inquire of the Secretary Falkland whether
Sir Richard Fentham was expected shortly in Oxford, as his
journeys were very irregular, and generally kept a profound
secret He went to Lord Falkland and asked the question,
telling him that he did so from private reasons unconnected
with the State. Falkland declined at first to answer him ; but
on Inglesant's taking him a little more into his confidence,
he confided to him, as a great secret, that Sir Richard was
expected that very night, and further, that he would pass
through Newnham in the afternoon, where he would meet a
messenger with despatches. Upon learning this startling piece

of news, Inglesant hastened to his brother's rooms, but found
he was too late, Eustace having been gone more than two
hours, and as he started considerably after the ladies' coach,
there could be no doubt but that the party was already at
Newnham. Inglesant went to the stables where his horses
were kept, and having found one of his servants, he ordered
his own horse to be saddled, as he was going to ride alone.
While it was being prepared he attempted to form some plan
upon which to act when he arrived at Newnham, but his
ingenuity completely failed him. Merely to walk into a room
where some ladies and gentlemen were at dinner, to which he
was not invited, and inform one of the ladies that her husband
was in the neighbourhood, appeared an action so absurd that
he discarded the intention at once. When his horse was
brought out and he mounted and rode out of Oxford towards
the south, telling his servant he should be back at night, he
probably did not know why he went. He rode quickly, and
arrived in about an hour. The Plough at Newnham (it has
long disappeared) stood upon the banks of the river, in a picturesque
and retired situation, and was much frequented by
parties of pleasure from Oxford. The gardens and bowling-greens
lay upon the river bank, and the paths extended from
them through the fields both up and down the river. It was
apparent to Inglesant that a distinguished party was in the
house, from the servants loitering about the doors, and coming
ill and out. More than one of these he recognized as belonging
to Lord H . The absurdity of suspecting any mischief
from so public a rendezvous struck Inglesant as so great,
that he was on the point of passing the house. He however
alighted and inquired of one of the men whether any of his
brother's servants were about The man, who knew him,
replied that Mr. Eustace Inglesant had dined there with his
lordship and the ladies, but was then, he believed, either in the
garden or the fields with Lady Cardiff; he had brought no

servants with him. Having got thus into conversation with
the man, Inglesant ventured to inquire, with as careless a
manner as he could assume, if Lady Isabella were there.

Lady Isabella, the man said, had dined there, but after
dinner had gone on a little farther in her coach, and attended
by her servants, he believed to make some call in the neighbourhood.


Then Inglesant knew that he had done right to come.

I have a message to Lady Ann Fentham," he said to the
man, " but not being of the party, I would rather have sent it
through my brother. As I suppose it is useless to attempt to
find him, I shall be glad if you will tell me in which room the
lady is, for I suppose his lordship is with her."

His lordship left orders that he was not to be disturbed,"
said the man insolently ; " you had better try and find your
brother."

Nevertheless, I must give her my message," said Inglesant
quietly; "therefore, pray show me upstairs."

I don't know the room," said the man still more rudely,
and you cannot go upstairs ; his lordship has engaged the
house."

During the conversation the other men had gathered round,
and it seemed to Inglesant that his lordship must have brought
all his servants with him, for the house appeared full of them.
None of the ordinary servants of the place were to be seen.

Inglesant had no arms but his riding sword, and even if
he had had, the use of them would have been absurd.

You know who I am," he said, looking the man steadily
in the face, " one of the King's gentlemen whom they call the
Queen's favourite page. I bring a message to Lady Fentham
from her husband, the Secretary to the Prince's council ; do you
think your lord will wish you to stop me ?"

As he spoke he made a step forward as though to enter,
and the man, evidently in doubt, stepped slightly on one side,

making it possible to enter the house. The rest took this
movement to imply surrender, and one of the youngest, probably
to gain favour, said, " The lady is in the room opposite
the stairs, sir." Inglesant walked up the low oak staircase to
the door, the men crowding together in silence at the bottom
of the stairs.

Inglesant tried the latch of the door, though he did not
intend to go in without knocking.

The door was fastened, and he knocked.

For a moment there was silence, and then a voice said,
angrily, "Who is there?"

A message from Sir Richard Fentham," said Inglesant

There was another and a longer pause, and then the same
voice said, —

Is Sir Richard without?"

No," replied Inglesant ; " but he may be here any moment
; he is on the road."

The door was immediately opened by his lordship, and
Inglesant walked in.

The moment he did, Lady Fentham, who was in the
further part of the room, started up from the seat in which
she was lying, and throwing herself on Johnny's shoulder
said, —

"Help me, Mr. Inglesant, I have been cruelly deceived."

Inglesant took no notice of her, but turning to Lord
H he said with marked politeness, —

u I have to beg your lordship's pardon for intruding upon
your company, but I am charged to let Lady Fentham know
that Sir Richard is expected in Oxford to-night, and may pass
this house at any time, probably in a few minutes. I thought
Lady Fentham would wish to know this so much that I
ventured to knock, though your servants told me you wished
to be private."

His words were so chosen and his manner so faultless and

devoid of suspicion, that Lord H could find nothing

in either to quarrel with, though he was plainly in a violent
passion, and with difficulty controlled himself. sit had also
the effect of calming Lady Fentham, who remained silent ;
indeed, she appeared too agitated to speak. It was an awkward
pause, but less so to Inglesant than to the other two.

I wished," he continued, still speaking to Lord H ,

to have sent my message by my brother, but I find he is
walking in the fields, and Lady Isabella appears to have gone
in her carriage to make a call in the neighbourhood. I presume
she will call for you, Lady Fentham, on her way back."

Lady Fentham made a movement of anger, and Lord
H roused himself at last to say, —

I am much obliged to you, Mr. Inglesant, for the great
trouble you have taken. I assure you I shall not forget it.
Lady Fentham, as Sir Richard will so soon be here" — he
stopped suddenly as an idea struck him, and looking full at
Inglesant, said slowly and with marked emphasis, " Supposing
Mr. Inglesant to " — to have spoken the truth he would have
said, but Johnny's perfectly courteous attitude of calm politeness,
the utter absence of any tangible ground of offence, and
his own instincts as a gentleman, checked him, and he continued,
— " has not been misinformed, you will not need my
protection any further. I will leave you with Mr. Inglesant ;
probably Lady Cardiff will be back before long."

He took his leave with equal courtesy both to the lady
and Inglesant, and went down to his men.

Ann Fentham sank into her chair, and began to sob
bitterly, saying, —

What shall I say to my husband, Mr. Inglesant ? He will
be here directly, and will find me alone. What would have
happened to me if you had not come?"

If I may offer any advice, madam, I should say, Tell your
husband everything exactly as it happened. Nothing has

happened of which you have need to be ashamed. Sir Richard
will doubtless see that you have been shamefully deceived by
your friends, as far as I understand the matter. You can trust
to his sympathy and kindness."

She did not reply, and Inglesant, who found his situation
far more awkward than before, said, " Shall I seek for Lady
Cardiff, madam, and bring her to you ? "

No, don't leave me, Mr. Inglesant," she said, springing
up and coming to him ; " I shall bless your name for ever for
what you have done for me this day."

Inglesant stayed with the lady until it was plain Lord

H had left the house with his servants, and he then

left her and went into the garden to endeavour to find his
brother and Lady Cardiff; but in this he was not successful,
and returned to the house, where he ordered some dinner — for
he had eaten nothing since the morning — and seated himself at
the window to wait for Sir Richard. He had sat there about
an hour when the latter arrived, and drew his rein before the
house before dismounting. Inglesant greeted him and went
out to him in the porch. Fentham returned his greeting
warmly.

Your wife is upstairs, Sir Richard," Inglesant said ; "she
came down with Lady Isabella Thynne, and is waiting for her
to take her back."

Fentham left his horse with the servant and ran upstairs
straight to his wife, and as Inglesant followed him into the
house he met Lady Cardiff and his brother, who came in from
the garden. Eustace Inglesant was radiant, and introduced
Lady Cardiff to his brother as his future wife. He took them
into a private room, and called for wine and cakes. Johnny
thought it best not to tell them what had occurred, but merely
said that Sir Richard and his wife were upstairs ; upon which
Eustace sent a servant up with his compliments, asking them
to come and join them. Both Lady Cardiff and Eustace

appeared conscious, however, that some blame attached to
them, for they expressed great surprise at the absence of Lady
Isabella, and took pains to inform Johnny that they had left
Lady Fentham with her, and had no idea she was going away.
Sir Richard and Lady Fentham joined the party, and appeared
composed and happy, and they had not sat long before Lady
Isabella's coach appeared before the door, and her ladyship
came in. The ladies returned to Oxford in the coach, and
the gentlemen on horseback. Nothing was said by the latter
as to what had occurred until after they had left Eustace at
his lodgings, and Johnny was parting with Fentham at the door
of Lord Falkland, to whom he was going. Then Sir Richard
said, —

Mr. Inglesant, my wife has told me all, and has told me
that she owes everything to you, even to this last blessing, that
there is no secret between us. I beg you to believe two
things, — first, that nothing I can do or say can ever repay the
obligation that I owe to you ; secondly, that the blame of this
matter rests mostly with me, in that I have left my wife too
much."

Inglesant waited for several days in expectation of hearing
from Lord H , but no message came. They met

several times and passed each other with the usual courtesies.
At last Eustace Inglesant heard from one of his lordship's
friends that the latter had been very anxious to meet Johnny,
but had been dissuaded.

"You have not the slightest tangible ground of offence
against young Inglesant," they told him, " and you have every
cause to keep this affair quiet, out of which you have not
emerged with any great triumph. Inglesant has shown by the
line of conduct he adopted that he desires to keep it close.
None of the rest of the party will speak of it for their own
sakes. Were it known, it would ruin you at once with the
King, and damage you very much in the estimation of all the

principal men here, who are Sir Richard's friends, and such
as are not would resent such conduct towards a man engaged
on his master's business. Besides this you are not a remarkably
good fencer, whereas John Inglesant is a pupil of the
Jesuits, and master of all their arts and tricks of stabbing.
That he could kill you in five minutes if he chose, there can
be no doubt."

These and other similar arguments finally persuaded Lord

H to restrain his desire of revenge, which was the

easier for him to do as Inglesant always treated him when they
met with marked deference and courtesy.

The marriage of Lady Cardiff and Eustace Inglesant was
hurried forward, and took place at Oxford some weeks after
the foregoing events ; the King and Queen being present at
the ceremony. It was indeed very important to attach this
wealthy couple unmistakably to the royal party, and no
efforts were spared for the purpose. Lady Cardiff and her
husband, however, did not manifest any great enthusiasm in
the royal cause.

The music of the wedding festival was interrupted by the
cannon of Newbury, where Lord Falkland was killed, together
with a sad roll of gentlemen of honour and repute. Lord
Clarendon says, — " Such was always the unequal fate that attended
this melancholy war, that while some obscure, unheard-of
colonel or officer was missing on the enemy's side, and some
citizen's wife bewailed the loss of her husband, there were on
the other above twenty officers of the field and persons of
honour and public name slain upon the place, and more of the
same quality hurt." In this battle Inglesant was more fortunate
than in his first, for he was not hurt, though he rode in the
Lord Biron's regiment, the same in which Lord Falkland was
also a volunteer.

The King returned to Oxford, where Inglesant found everyone
in great dejection of mind ; the conduct of the war was

severely criticized, the army discontented, and the chief commanders
engaged in reproaches and recriminations.

One afternoon Inglesant was sent for to Merton College,
where the Queen lay, and where the King spent much of his
time ; where he found the Jesuit standing with the King in one
of the windows, and Mr. Jermyn, who had just been made a
baron, talking to the Queen. The King motioned Inglesant
to approach him, and the Jesuit explained the reason he had
been sent for.

The trial of Archbishop Laud was commencing, and in
order to incite the people against him Mr. Prynne had published
the particulars of a popish plot in a pamphlet which
contained the names of many gentlemen, both Protestant and
Catholic, the publication of which at such a moment excited
considerable uneasiness among their relations and friends.

I wish you, Mr. Inglesant," said the King, " to ride to
London. Mr. Hall has provided passes for you, and letters to
several of his friends. The new French Ambassador is landing
; I wish to know how far the French Court is true to me.
Prynne's wit has overreached himself. His charges have
frightened so many, that a reaction is setting in in favour of
the Archbishop, and many are willing to testify in his favour
in order to exonerate themselves. You will be of great use in
finding out these people. Seek every one who is mentioned in
Prynne's libel ; many of them are men of influence. Your
familiar converse with Papists, in other respects unfortunate,
may be of use here."

Inglesant spent some time in London, and was in constant
communication with Mr. Bell, the Archbishop's secretary. He
was successful in procuring evidence from among the Papists
of their antipathy to Laud, and in various other ways in providing
Bell with materials for defence. Laud was informed
of these acts of friendship, and being in a very low and broken
state, was deeply touched that a comparative stranger, and one

who had been under no obligation to him, should show so
much attachment, and exert himself so much in his service, at
a time when the greatest danger attended any one so doing,
and when he seemed deserted both by his royal master and by
those on whom he had showered benefits in the time of his
prosperity. He sent his blessing and grateful thanks, the
thanks of an old and dying man, which would be all the more
valuable as they never could be accompanied by any earthly
favour. Inglesant's name was associated with that of the
Archbishop, and the Jesuit's aim in sending him to London
was accomplished.

CHAPTER X.

INGLESANT was of so much use in gaining information,
and managed to live on such confidential terms with many
in London in the confidence of members of the Parliament,
that he remained there during all the early part of the year,
and would have stayed longer ; but the enemies of the Archbishop,
who pursued him with a malignant and remorseless
activity, set their eyes at last upon the young envoy, and he
was advised to leave London, at any rate till the trial was
over. He was very unwilling to leave the Archbishop, but
dared not run the risk of being imprisoned and thwarting the
Jesuit's schemes, and therefore left London about the end of
May, and returned straight to Oxford.

He left London only a few days before the allied armies
of Sir W. Waller and the Earl of Essex, and had no sooner
arrived in Oxford than the news of the advance of the Parliamentary
forces caused the greatest alarm. The next day
Abingdon was vacated by some mistake, and the rebels took
possession of the whole of the country to the east and south
of Oxford ; Sir William Waller being on the south, and the Earl
of Essex on the east. It was reported in London that the
King intended to surrender to the Earl's army, and such a
proposition was seriously made to the King by his own friends
a few days afterwards in Oxford. The royal army was massed
about the city, most of the foot being on the north side ; Inglesant
served with the foot in Colonel Lake's regiment of musketeers
and pikes, taking a pike in the front rank. It was a

weapon which the gentlemen of that day frequently practised,
and of which he was a master. Several other gentlemen
volunteers were in the front rank with him. The Earl's army
was drawn up at Slip, on the other side of the river Chigwell,
having marched by Oxford the day before, in open file, drums
beating and colours flying, so that the King had a full view of
them on the bright fine day. The Earl himself, with a party
of horse, came within cannon shot of the city, and the King's
horse charged him several times without any great hurt on
either side. It was a gay and brilliant scene to any one who
could look upon it with careless and indifferent eyes.

The next morning a strong party of the Earl's army endeavoured
to pass the Chigwell at Gosport bridge, where Sir
Jacob Ashley commanded, and where the regiment in which
Inglesant served was stationed. The bridge was barricaded
with breastworks and a bastion, but the Parliamentarian army
attempted to cross the stream both above and below. They
succeeded in crossing opposite to Colonel Lake's regiment,
under a heavy fire from the musketeers, who advanced rank
by rank between the troops of pikes and a little in advance of
them, and after giving their fire, wheeled off to the right and
left, and took their places again in the rear. The rebels
reserved their fire, their men falling at every step ; but they
still advanced, supported by troops of horse, till they reached
the Royalists, when they delivered their fire, closed their ranks,
and charged, their horse charging the pikes at the same time.
The ranks of the royal musketeers halted and closed up, and
the pikes drew close together shoulder to shoulder, till the
rapiers of their officers met across the front. The shock was
very severe, and the struggle for a moment undecided ; but
the pikes standing perfectly firm, owing in a great measure to
the number of gentlemen in the front ranks, and the musketeers
fighting with great courage, the enemy began to give
way, and having been much broken before they came to the

charge fell into disorder, and were driven back across the
stream, the Royalists following them to the opposite bank, and
even pursuing them up the slope. Inglesant had noticed an
officer on the opposite side who was fighting with great
courage, and as they crossed the river he saw him stumble
and nearly fall, though he appeared to struggle forward on the
opposite slope to where an old thorn tree broke the rank of
the pikes. Johnny came close to him, and recognized him
as the Mr. Thorne whom he had known at Gidding. As he
knew the regiment would be halted immediately, he fell out
of his rank, leaving his file to the bringer-up or lieutenant
behind him, and stooped over his old rival, who evidently was
desperately hurt. He raised his head, and gave him some
aqua vita from his flask. The other knew him at once, and
tried to speak ; but his strength was too far gone, and his utterance
failed him. He seemed to give over the effort, and lay
back in Inglesanfs arms, staining his friend with his blood.
Inglesant asked him if he had any mission he would wish performed,
but the other shook his head, and seemed to give
himself to prayer. After a minute or two he seemed to rally,
and his face became very calm. Opening his eyes, he looked
at Johnny steadily and with affection, and said, slowly and
with difficulty, but still with a look of rest and peace, —

"Mr. Inglesant, you spoke to me once of standing
together in a brighter dawn; I did not believe you, but it
was true ; the dawn is breaking — and it is bright."

As he spoke a volley of musketry shook the hill-side, and
the regiment came down the slope at a run, and carrying
Inglesant with them, crossed the river, and, halting on the
other side, wheeled about and faced the passage in the same
order in which they had stood at first. This dangerous
manoeuvre was executed only just in time, for the enemy
advanced in great force to the river-side ; but the Royalists
being also very strong, they did not attempt to pass. After

facing each other for some time, the fighting having ceased all
along the line, Inglesant spoke to his officer, and got leave to
cross the river with a flag of truce to seek his friend. An
officer from the other side met him, most of the enemy's
troops having fallen back some distance from the river. He
was an old soldier, evidently a Low-country officer, and not
much of a Puritan, and he greeted Inglesant politely as a
fellow-soldier.

Inglesant told him his errand, and that he was anxious to
find out his friend's body, if, as he feared, he would be found
to have breathed his last. They went to the old thorn, where,
indeed, they found Mr. Thorne quite dead. Several of the
rebel officers gathered round. Mr. Thorne was evidently
well known, and they spoke of him with respect and regard.
Inglesant stopped, looking down on him for a few minutes,
and then turned to go.

Gentlemen," he said, raising his hat, " I leave him in
your care. He was, as you have well said, a brave and a
good man. I crossed his path twice — once in love and once
in war — and at both times he acted as a gallant gentleman and
a man of God. I wish you good day."

He turned away, and went down to the river, from which
his regiment had by this time also fallen back, the others
looking after him as he went.

Who is that?" said a stern and grim-looking Puritan officer.
He does not speak as the graceless Cavaliers mostly do."

His name is Inglesant," said a quiet, pale man, in dark
and plain clothes ; "he is one of the King's servants, a concealed
Papist, and, they say, a Jesuit. I have seen him often
at Whitehall."

Thou wilt not see him much longer, brother," said the
other grimly, " either at Whitehall or elsewhere. It were a
good deed to prevent his further deceiving the poor and
ignorant folk," and he raised his piece to fire.

Scarcely," said the other quietly, " since he came to do
us service and courtesy." But he made no effort to restrain
the Puritan, looking on, indeed, with a sort of quiet interest as
to what would happen.

Thou art enslaved over much to the customs of this
world, brother," said the other, still with his grave smile ;
knowest thou not that it is the part of the saints militant to
root out iniquity from the earth?"

He arranged his piece to fire, and would no doubt have
done so ; but the Low-country officer, who had been looking
on in silence, suddenly threw himself upon the weapon, and
wrested it out of his hand.

"By my soul, Master Fight-the-fight," he said, " that
passes a joke. The good cause is well enough, and the saints
militant and triumphant, and all the rest of it ; but to shoot a
man under a flag of truce was never yet required of any saint,
whether militant or triumphant."

The other looked at him severely as he took back his
weapon.

Thou art in the bonds of iniquity thyself," he said, " and
in the land of darkness and the shadow of death. The Lord's
cause will never prosper while it puts trust in such as thou."
But he made no further attempt against Inglesant, who,
indeed, by this time had crossed the river, and was out of
musket shot on the opposite bank.

A few days afterwards the King left Oxford and went into
the West. Inglesant remained in garrison, and took his
share in all the expeditions of any kind that were undertaken.
The Roman Catholics were at this time very strong in Oxford;
they celebrated mass every day, and had frequent sermons, at
which many of the Protestants attended ; but it was thought
among the Church people to be an extreme thing to do, and
any of the commanders who did it excited suspicion thereby.
The Church of England people were by this time growing
vol. 1. l

jealous of the power and unrestrained license of the Catholics,
and the Jesuit warned Inglesant to attach himself more to the
English Church party, and avoid being much seen with
extreme Papists. Colonel Gage, a Papist, was appointed
governor by the King ; but being a very prudent man and a
general favourite, as well as an excellent officer, the appointment
did not give much offence. Inglesant was present at
Cropped Bridge, which battle or skirmish was fought after the
King returned to Oxford from his hasty march through Worcestershire,
and was wounded severely in the head by a
sword cut — a wound which he thought little of at the time, but
which long afterwards made itself felt. Notwithstanding this
wound he intended following the King into the West, for His
Majesty had latterly shown a greater kindness to him, and a
wish to keep him near his person ; but Father St. Clare, after
an interview with the King, told Inglesant that he had a
mission for him to perform in London, and so kept him in
Oxford.

The trial of the Archbishop was dragging slowly on
through the year, and the Jesuit procured Inglesant another
pass, and directed him to endeavour in every way to assist the
Archbishop in his trial, without fear of his prosecutors, telling
him that he could procure his liberation even if he were put
in prison, which he did not believe he would be. Inglesant,
therefore, on his return to London, gave himself heartily to
assisting the counsel and secretary of the Archbishop, and
found himself perfectly unmolested in so doing. He lodged
at a druggist's over against the Goat Tavern, near Toy Bridge
in the Strand, and frequented the ordinary at Haycock's, near
the Palsgrave's Head Tavern, where the Parliament men much
resorted. Here he met among others Sir Henry Blunt, who
had been a gentleman pensioner of the King's, and had waited
on him in his turn to York and Edgehill fight, but then, returning
to London, walked into Westminster Hall, with his

sword by his side, so coolly as to astonish the Parliamentarians.
He was summoned before the Parliament, but pleading that
he only did his duty as a servant, was acquitted. This man,
who was a man of judgment and experience, was of great use
to Inglesant in many ways, and put him in the way of finding
much that might assist the Archbishop; but it occurred to
Inglesant more than once to doubt whether the latter would
benefit much by his advocacy, a known pupil of the Papists ashe
was. This caused him to keep more quiet than he otherwise
would have done ; but what was doubtless the Jesuit's
chief aim was completely answered ; for the Church people,
both in London and the country, who regarded the Archbishop
as a martyr, becoming aware of the sincere and really useful
exertions that Inglesant had made with such untiring energy,
attached themselves entirely to him, and took him completely
into their confidence, so that he could at this time have depended
on any of them for assistance and support. The different
parties were at this time so confused and intermixed
the Papists playing in many cases a double game — that it
would have been difficult for Inglesant, who was partly in the
confidence of all, to know which way to act, had he stood
alone. He saw now, more than he had ever done, the intrigues
of that party among the Papists who favoured the Parliament,
and was astonished at their skill and duplicity. At
last the Commons, failing to find the Archbishop guilty of
anything worthy of death, passed a Bill of Attainder, as they
had done with Lord Strafford, and condemned him with no
precedence of law. The Lords hesitated to pass the Bill, and
on Christmas Eve, 1644, demanded a conference with the
Commons. The next day was the strangest Christmas Day
Inglesant had ever spent. The whole city was ordered to fast
in the most solemn way by a special ordinance of Parliament,
and strict inquisition was made to see that this ordinance was
carried out by the people. Inglesant was well acquainted with

Mr. Hale, afterwards Chief Justice Hale, one of the Archbishop's
counsel, then a young lawyer in Lincoln's Inn, who,
it was said, had composed the defence which Mr. Hern, the
senior counsel, had spoken before the Lords. Johnny spent
part of the morning with this gentleman, and in the afternoon
walked down to the Tower from Lincoln's Inn. The streets
were very quiet, the shops closed, and a feeling of sadness
and dread hung over all — at any rate in Inglesant's mind. At
the turnstile at Lowborn he went into a bookseller's shop kept
by a man named Turner, a Papist, who sold popish books and
pamphlets. Here he found an apothecary, who also was useful
to the Catholics, making " Hosts " for them. These both
immediately began to speak to Inglesant about the Archbishop
and the Papists, expressing their surprise that he should exert
himself so much in his favour, telling him that the Papists, to
a man, hated him and desired his death, and that a gentleman
lately returned from Italy had that very day informed the
bookseller that the news of the Archbishop's execution was
eagerly expected in Rome. The Lords were certain to give
way, they said, and the Archbishop was as good as dead already.
They were evidently very anxious to extract from Inglesant
whether he acted on his own responsibility or from the directions
of the Jesuit ; but Inglesant was much too prudent to
commit himself in any way. When he had left them he went
straight to the Tower, where he was admitted to the Archbishop,
whom he found expecting him. He gave him all the
intelligence he could, and all the gossip of the day which he
had picked up, including the sayings of the wits at the taverns
and ordinaries respecting the trial and the Archbishop, of whom
all men's minds were full. Laud was inclined to trust somewhat
to the Lords' resistance, and Inglesant had scarcely the
heart to refute his opinion. He told him the feeling of the
Papists, and his fear that even the Catholics at Oxford were
not acting sincerely with him. After the failure of the King's

pardon, Laud entertained little hope from any other efforts
Charles might be disposed to make; but Inglesant promised
him to ride to Oxford, and see the Jesuit again. This he did
the next day, before the Committee of the Commons met the
Lords, which they did not do till the 2d of January. He
had a long interview with the Jesuit, and urged as strongly ashe
could the cruelty and impolicy of letting the Archbishop
die without an effort to save him.

What can be done?" said the Jesuit; " the King can do
nothing. All that he can do in the way of pardon he has
done : besides, I never see the King ; the feeling against the
Catholics is now so strong, that His Majesty dare not hold
any communications with me.

Inglesant inquired what the policy of the Roman Catholic
Church really was; was it favourable to the King and the
English Church, or against it ?

The Jesuit hesitated, but then, with that appearance of
frankness which always won upon his pupil, he confessed that
the policy of the Papal Court had latterly gone very much
more in favour of the party who wished to destroy the English
Church than it had formerly done ; and that at present the
Pope and the Catholic powers abroad were only disposed to
help the King on such terms as he could not accept, and at
the same time retain the favour of the Church and Protestant
party ; and he acknowledged that he had himself under-estimated
the opposition of the bulk of English people to Popery.
He then requested Inglesant to return to London, and continue
to show himself openly in support of the Archbishop, assuring
him that in this way alone could he fit himself for performing
a most important service to the King, which, he said, he should
be soon able to point out to him. The old familiar charm,
which had lost none of its power over Johnny, would, of itself,
have been sufficient to make him perfectly pliant to the
Jesuit's will. He returned to London, but was refused admission

to the Archbishop until after the Committee of the
Commons had met the Lords, and on the 3d of January the
Lords passed the Bill of Attainder. When the news of this
reached the Archbishop, he broke off his history, which he had
written from day to day, and prepared himself for death. He
petitioned that he might be beheaded instead of hanged, and
the Commons at last, after much difficulty, granted this request.
On the 6th of January it was ordered by both Houses that
he should suffer on the 10th. On the same day Inglesant
received a special message from the Jesuit in these words, in
cypher: — "Apply for admission to the scaffold; it will be
granted you."

Very much surprised, Inglesant went to Alderman Penning-ton,
and requested admission to attend the Archbishop to the
scaffold, pleading that he was one of the King's household,
and attached to the Archbishop from a boy.

Bennington examined him concerning his being in London,
his pass, and place of abode, but Inglesant thought more from
curiosity than from any other motive ; for it was evident that
he knew all about him, and his behaviour in London. He
asked him many questions about Oxford and the Catholics,
and seemed to enjoy any embarrassment that Inglesant was
put to in replying. Finally he gave him the warrant of admission,
and dismissed him. But as he left the room he called
him back, and said with great emphasis, —

I would warn you, young man, to look very well to your
steps. You are treading a path full of pitfalls, few of which
you see yourself. All your steps are known, and those are
known who are leading you. They think they hold the wires
in their own hands, and do not know that they are but the
puppets themselves. If you are not altogether in the snare of
the destroyer, come out from them, and escape both destruction
in this world and the wrath that is to come."

Inglesant thanked him and took his leave. He could not

help thinking that there was much truth in the alderman's description
of his position.

The next three days the Archbishop spent in preparing for
death and composing his speech ; and on the day on which
he was to die, Inglesant found when he reached the Tower,
that he was at his private prayers, at which he continued
until Bennington arrived to conduct him to the scaffold.
When he came out and found Inglesant there, he seemed
pleased, as well he might, for excepting Stern, his chaplain,
the only one who was allowed to attend him, he was alone
amongst his enemies. He ascended the scaffold with a brave
and cheerful courage, some few of the vast crowd assembled
reviling him, but the greater part preserving a decent and
respectful silence. The chaplain and Inglesant followed
him close, and it was well they did so, for a crowd of people,
whether by permission or not is not known, pressed up upon
the scaffold, as Dr. Heylyn said, " upon the theatre to see the
tragedy," so that they pressed upon the Archbishop, and
scarcely gave him room to die. Inglesant had never seen
such a wonderful sight before — once afterwards he saw one
like it, more terrible by far. The little island of the scaffold,
surrounded by a surging, pressing sea of heads and struggling
men, covering the whole extent of Tower Hill; the houses
and windows round full of people, the walls and towers behind
covered too. People pressed underneath the scaffold; people
climbed up the posts and hung suspended by the rails that
fenced it round ; people pressed up the steps till there was
scarcely room within the rails to stand. The soldiers on guard
seemed careless what was done, probably feeling certain that
there was no fear of any attempt to rescue the hated priest.

Inglesant recognized many Churchmen and friends of the
Archbishop among the crowd, and saw that they recognized
him, and that his name was passed about among both friends
and enemies. The Archbishop read his speech with great

calmness and distinctness, the opening moving many to tears,
and when he had finished, gave the papers to Stern to give to
his other chaplains, praying God to bestow His mercies and
blessings upon them. He spoke to a man named Hind, who
sat taking down his speech, begging him not to do him wrong
by mistaking him. Then begging the crowd to stand back
and give him room, he knelt down to the block ; but seeing
through the chinks of the boards the people underneath, he
begged that they might be removed, as he did not wish that
his blood should fall upon the heads of the people. Surely no
man was ever so crowded upon and badgered to his death.
Then he took off his doublet, and would have addressed himself
to prayer, but was not allowed to do so in peace ; one Sir
John Allworthy, an Irishman, pestering him with religious
questions. After he had answered one or two meekly, he
turned to the executioner and forgave him, and kneeling down,
after a very short prayer, to which Hind listened with his head
down and wrote word for word, the axe with a single blow cutoff
his head. He was buried in All Hallows Barking, a great
crowd of people attending him to the grave in silence and
great respect, — the Church of England service read over him
without interruption, though it had long been discontinued in
all the Churches in London.

News of his death spread rapidly over England, and was
received by all Church people with religious fervour as the
news of a martyrdom ; and wherever it was told, it was added
that Mr. John Inglesant, the King's servant, who had used
every effort to aid the Archbishop on his trial, was with him
on the scaffold to the last. Inglesant returned to Oxford,
where the Jesuit received him cordially. He had, it would
have seemed, failed in his mission, for the Archbishop was
dead ; nevertheless, the Jesuit's aim was fully won.

On the King's leaving Oxford, before the advance of
General Fairfax, Inglesant accompanied him, and was present

at the battle of Naseby, so fatal to the royal cause. No mention
of this battle, however, is to be found among the papers
from which these memoirs are compiled ; and the fact that
Inglesant was present at it is known only by an incidental reference
to it at a later period. Amid the confusion of the
flight, and the subsequent wanderings of the King before he
returned to Oxford, it is impossible to follow less important
events closely, and it does not seem clear whether Inglesant
met with the Jesuit immediately after the battle or not.
Acting, however, there can be no doubt, with his approval, if
not by his direction, he appears very soon after to have found
his way to Gidding, where he remained during several weeks.

CHAPTER XI.

THE autumn days passed quickly over, and with them the
last peaceful hours that Inglesant would know for a
long time, and that youthful freshness and bloom and peace
which he would never know again. Such a haven as this, such
purity and holiness, such rest and repose, lovely as the autumn
sunshine resting on the foliage and the grass, would never be
open to him again. It was long before rest and peace came to
him at all, and when they did come, under different skies and
an altered life, it was a rest after a stern battle that left its scars
deep in his very life ; it was apart from every one of his early
friends; it was unblest by first love and early glimpse of heaven.
It was about the end of October that he received a message
from the Jesuit, which was the summons to leave this paradise,
sanctified to him by the holiest moments of his life. The
family were at evening prayers in the Church when the messenger
arrived, and Inglesant, as usual, was kneeling where he
could see Mary Collet, and probably was thinking more of her
than of the prayers. Nevertheless he remembered afterwards,
when he thought during the long lonely hours of every moment
spent at Gidding, that the third collect was being read, and
that at the words " Lighten our darkness " he looked up at
some noise, and saw the sunshine from the west window shining
into the Church upon Mary Collet and the kneeling women,
and, beyond them, standing in the dark shadow under the
window, the messenger of the Jesuit, whom he knew. He got

up quietly and went out. From his marriage feast, nay, from
the table of the Lord, he would have got up all the same had
that summons come to him.

His whole life from his boyhood had been so formed upon
the idea of some day proving himself worthy of the confidence
reposed in him (that perfect unexpressed confidence which
won his very nature to a passionate devotion capable of the
supreme action, whatever it might be, to which all his training
had tended), that to have faltered at any moment would have
been more impossible to him than suicide, than any self-contradictory
action could have been — as impossible as for a
proud man to become suddenly naturally humble, or a merciful
man cruel. That there might have been found in the universe
a power capable of overmastering this master passion is possible
; hitherto, however, it had not been found.

Outside the Church the messenger gave him a letter from
the Jesuit, which, as usual, was very short.

Johnny, come to me at Oxford as soon as you can. The
time for which we have waited is come. The service which
you and none other can perform, and which I have always
foreseen for you, is waiting to be accomplished. I depend on
you."

Inglesant ordered some refreshment to be given to the
messenger, and his own horses to be got out. Then he went
back into the Church, and waited till the prayers were over.

The family expressed great regret at parting with him • they
were in a continual state of apprehension from their Puritan
neighbours ; but Inglesant's presence was no defence but rather
the contrary, and it is possible that some of them may have
been glad that he was going.

Mary Collet looked sadly and wistfully at him as they
stood before the porch of the house in the setting sunlight, the
long shadows resting on the grass, the evening wind murmuring
in the tall trees and shaking down the falling leaves.

Do you know what this service is?" she said at last.

I cannot make the slightest guess," he answered.

"Whatever it is you will do it?" she asked again.

Certainly; to do otherwise would be to contradict the tenor
of my life."

It may be something that your conscience cannot approve,"
she said.

It is too late to think of that," he said, smiling ; " I should
have thought of that years ago, when I was a boy at Westmoreland
this man came to me as an angel of light— to me a weak,
ignorant, country lad — to me, who owe him everything that I
am, everything that I know, everything — even the power that
enables me to act for him."

Did she remember how he had once offered himself without
reserve to her, then at least without any reservation in favour
of this man? Did she regret that she had not encouraged this
other attraction, or did she see that the same thing would have
happened whether she had accepted him or no ? She gave no
indication of either of these thoughts.

I think you owe something to another," she said, softly ;
to One who knew you before this Jesuit ; to One who was
leading you onward before he came across your path ; to One
who gave you high and noble qualities, without which the Jesuit
could have given you nothing; to One whom you have professed
to love ; to One for whose Divine Voice you have desired to
listen. Johnny, will you listen no longer for it?"

He never forgot her, standing before him with her hands
clasped and her eyes raised to his, — the flush of eager speaking
on her face, — those great eyes, moistened again with tears, that
pierced through him to his very soul, — her trembling lip, — the
irresistible nobleness of her whole figure, — her winning manner,
through which the love she had confessed for him spoke in
every part. He never saw her again but once — then in how
different a posture and scene; and the beauty of this sight never

went out of his life, but it produced no effect upon his purpose;
indeed how could it, when his purpose was not so much a part
of him as he was a part of it ? He looked at her in silence,
and his love and admiration spoke out so unmistakably in his
look that Mary never afterwards doubted that he had loved
her. He had not power to explain his conduct ; he could not
have told himself why he acted as he did. Amid the distracting
purposes which tore his heart in twain he could say nothing
but, —

It may not be so bad as you think."

Mary gave him her hand, turned from him, and went into
the house ; and he let her go — her of whom the sight must have
been to him as that of an angel — he let her go without an effort
to stay her, even to prolong the sight. His horses were waiting,
and one of his servants would follow with his mails ; he mounted
and rode away. The sun had set in a cloud, and the autumn
evening was dark and gloomy, yet he rode along without any
appearance of depression, steadily and quietly, like a man going
about some business he has long expected to perform. I
cannot even say he was sad : that moment had come to him
which from his boyhood he had looked forward to. Now at
last he could prove, at any rate to himself, that he was equal
to that effort which it had been his ideal to attempt.

When Inglesant reached Oxford he sought out the Jesuit
and found him alone. The royal affairs were at the lowest
ebb. Since the battle of Naseby the King had done little but
wander about like a fugitive. He was now at Oxford ; but it
was doubtful whether he could stay there in safety through the
winter, and certainly he would not be able to do so after the
campaign began, unless some change in his fortunes meanwhile
occurred. All this Inglesant knew only too well. The ruin
of the royal cause, entailing his own ruin and that of all his
friends, was too palpable to need description. The Jesuit
therefore at once proceeded to the means which were prepared

to remedy this disastrous state of things. The Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland, the Duke of Ormond, had, with the consent of the
King, concluded a truce with the Irish, who, after long years
of oppression, spoliation and misery, had, a few years before,
broken out suddenly in rebellion, and massacred hundreds of
the unprepared Protestants, men, women, and children, under
circumstances, as is admitted by Catholics, and is perhaps
scarcely to be wondered at, of frightful cruelty. A feeling of
intense hatred and dread of these rebels had consequently
filled the minds of the English Protestants, both Royalists and
Parliamentarians ; a feeling in which horror at murderous
savages — for as such they not unnaturally regarded the Irish —
was united with the old hatred and fear of popish massacres
and cruelties. The Parliament had remonstrated with the
King for his supineness in not concluding the war by the extirpation
of these monsters, and when at last a truce was concluded
with them, the anger of the Parliament knew no bounds,
and even loyal Churchmen, although they acknowledged the
hard necessity which obliged the King to such a step, yet
lamented it as one of the severest misfortunes which had
befallen them. The King hoped by this peace not only to be
able to recall the soldiers who had been engaged against the
rebels to his own assistance, but also to procure a detachment
of Irish soldiers for the same purpose from the popish leaders.
But the popish demands being very excessive, Ormond had
not been able to advance far towards a settled peace, when, in
the previous spring, the Lord Herbert (afterwards Earl of
Glamorgan), the son of the Marquis of Worcester, of a devoted
Catholic family and of great influence, announced his intention
of going to Ireland on private business, and offered to assist
the King with his influence among the Catholics. He had
married a daughter of the great Irish house of Lomond, and
undoubtedly possessed more influence in that island among the
Papists than any other of the royal party.

The King eagerly accepted his assistance, and Glamorgan
afterwards produced a commission, undeniably signed by the
King, in which he gives him ample powers to treat with the
Papists, and to grant them any terms whatever which he
should find necessary, consistent with the royal supremacy
and the safety of the Protestants. In this extraordinary commission
he creates him Earl of Glamorgan, bestows on him
the Garter and George, promises him the Princess Elizabeth
as a wife for his son, gives him blank patents of nobility to fill
up at his pleasure, and promises him on the word of a King to
endorse all his actions. The only limit which appears to have
been set to the Earl was an obligation to inform the Lord
Lieutenant of all his proceedings ; and the only doubt respecting
this commission appears to be whether it was filled up
before the King signed it, or written on a blank signed by the
King, in accordance with conclusions previously agreed upon
between him and the Earl.

The Earl left Oxford for Ireland, where the nuncio from
the Pope had arrived, and proceeded in his negotiations with
this dignitary and the Supreme Council of the rebel Papists
and Irish — negotiations in which he found endless difficulties
and delays, owing chiefly to a mutual distrust of all parties
towards each other ; — a distrust of the King not unnatural on
the part of the Irish, who knew that nothing but the utmost
distress induced the King to treat with them at all, and that
to treat with them, or at least to make any important concessions
to them, was to alienate the whole of the English Protestants
— both Royalists and Parliamentarians — to an implacable
degree. The Irish demanded perfect freedom of religion;
the possession of all Cathedrals and Churches; and
that all the strong places in Ireland, including Dublin, should
be in the hands at any rate of English Roman Catholics ;
that the English Papists should be relieved from all disabilities
; and that the King in the first Parliament, or settlement

of the nation, should ratify and secure all these advantages to
them. In return for this the Pope offered a large present of
money, and the Earl was promised 10,000 men from the
rebel forces — 3000 immediately for the relief of Chester, and
7000 to follow before the end of March.

In order to realize how repulsive such a proceeding as
this would appear to the whole English nation, it is necessary
to recollect the repeated professions of attachment to Protestantism
on the part of the King, and of his determination
to repress Popery ; the intense hatred of Popery on the part
of the Puritan party, and of most of the Church people ; and
the horror caused in all classes by the barbarities of the Irish
massacre — something similar to the feeling in England during
the Sepoy rebellion. No Irish ever came into England, and
the English knew them only by report as ferocious, half-naked
savages, to which state, indeed, centuries of oppression had
reduced them. So universal was this feeling, that the King
dared only proceed in the most secret manner; and in a
letter to Glamorgan he acknowledges that the circumstances
are such that he cannot do more than hint at his wishes,
promising him again, on the word of a King, to ratify all his
actions, and to regard his proceedings with additional gratitude
if they were conducted without insisting nicely on positive
written orders, which it was impossible to give.

Communications between the Earl and the Court continued
to be kept up, and the former represented the progress of
the negotiations as satisfactory ; but the state of the King's
affairs became so pressing, especially with regard to the relief
of Chester, which was reduced to great distress, that it was
absolutely necessary that some envoy should be sent to Ireland
to hasten the treaty, and if possible assist the Earl to
convince the Supreme Council of the good faith of the King ;
and it was also as important that an equally qualified agent
should go to Chester to prepare the leaders there to receive

the Irish contingent, and to encourage them to hold out
longer in expectation of it

There is no man so suited to both these missions as
yourself," said the Jesuit. "You are a King's servant and a
Protestant, and you will therefore have weight with the rebel
Council in Ireland. Still more, as you are a Churchman and
a favourite with the Church people — especially since the death
of the Archbishop — you will be able to prepare the mind of
the Lord Biron and the commanders at Chester to receive
the Irish troops favourably ; they will believe that you act by
the King's direction, and will not know anything of the concessions
which have been made in Ireland. You are ready
to undertake it?"

Inglesant hesitated for a moment, but then he said simply
and without effort, —

I am ready ; I will do my best : but there are some
things I should like to ask."

"Ask what you will," said the Jesuit, quickly; "everything
I know I will tell you."

"As a Churchman," said Inglesant, " if I lend myself to
this plan I shall be considered by all Churchmen to have
betrayed my religion, and to have done my best to ruin my
country as a Protestant country. Is not this the case ? "

Probably," said the Jesuit, after a moment's hesitation.

Shall I have any authority direct from the King for what
I do?"

I have advised not," said the Jesuit ; " but His Majesty
thinks that you will need some other warrant, both in Ireland
and at Chester, than the mere fact of your belonging to the
Household. He therefore intends to give you an interview,
and also a written commission signed by himself."

And in case the whole scheme miscarries and becomes
public ? " said Inglesant.

I cannot answer," said the Jesuit, " for what course His
vol. i. m

Majesty may be advised to take ; but in your case it will, of
course, be your duty to preserve the strictest silence as to
what has passed between the King and yourself."

Then if I fall into the hands of the Parliament," Inglesant
said, "my connection with the King will be repudiated?"

"His Majesty pledges his word as a King," began the
Jesuit.

Inglesant made a slight impatient motion with his head,
which the other saw, and instantly stopped.

He raised his eyes to Inglesant, and looked fully in his
face for a moment, then, with that supreme instinct which
taught him at once how to deal with men, he said : —

If the necessities of the State demand it, all knowledge
of this affair will be denied by the King."

That is all I have to say," said Inglesant ; " I am ready
to go."

The next day Inglesant saw the King. The interview was
very short The King referred him to Father St. Clare for all
instructions, telling him distinctly that all the instructions he
would receive from him would have his approval, urging him
to use all his efforts to assist Lord Glamorgan, but at all events
to lose no time, after seeing his Lordship, in getting to Chester,
and, when there, to use every exertion to induce the Cavaliers
to receive the Irish troops, as they, no doubt, would be glad
in their extremity to do. He received a few lines written by
the King in his presence and signed, requiring all to whom he
might show them to give credit to what he might tell them as
if it came direct from the King. The King gave him his
hand to kiss, and dismissed him.

Inglesant lost no time in reaching Bristol, taking with him
all that remained of his money, considerable sums of which he
had from time to time lent to the King. He found a vessel
sailing for Waterford, and was fortunate enough to reach that
harbour without loss of time. He did not stay by the ship

while she went up to the city, but landed at Dunmore, and
immediately took horses to Kilkenny. There he found the
Earl and the Papal Nuncio engaged in negotiations with each
other, and with the Supreme Council, the principal difficulty
being an intense distrust of the King. The Nuncio, John
Baptista Renuccini, Archbishop of Fermo, was of a noble
family of Florence, and of long experience at the Court of
Rome. He appeared pleased to see Inglesant, and came to
visit him privately at his lodgings, where he entered into a
long discourse with him, endeavouring to find out the real
standing and authority of the Earl, and whether the King could
be trusted or not. Inglesant, who spoke both French and
Italian as well as Latin, was able to enter very fully and freely
into the state of affairs with him. He told him that the only
way to gain any advantages which the Catholics might have in
view was to assist the King promptly and effectively at once ;
that the King could only be enabled to fulfil his promises by
being placed in a strong and independent position ; and that if,
by delays and half measures, the help was postponed till it was
too late, or the negotiations became publicly known, the King
would be powerless to fulfil his promises, and would be compelled
to repudiate them altogether. He submitted to the
Nuncio that, even supposing the King's good faith was doubtful,
he was much more likely to be favourable to the Catholics,
when restored to power, than the Parliament and the Puritan
faction would ever be ; he reminded the Nuncio of the great
favour and leniency which had ever been shown to the Romanists
during the King's reign, and he spoke warmly of the base
ingratitude which had been shown to the King by that party
among the Catholics who had intrigued with the Parliament
against a King, very many of whose troubles had arisen from
his leniency towards their religion.

The Nuncio was evidently much impressed with Inglesant's
arguments, and was very courteous in his expressions of

regard, assuring Inglesant that he should not forget to mention
so excellent and intelligent a friend of the Romish Church in
Rome itself, and that he hoped he might some time see him
there, and receive him into closer relations to that glorious
and tender mother.

Inglesant saw the Earl immediately after this interview; he
found him perplexed and discouraged with the difficulties of
his position. He introduced Inglesant to several of the
Supreme Council, and many days were taken up in argument
and negotiations. At last both Inglesant and the Earl agreed
that the most important thing for him to do was to get to
Chester without loss of time, as the delays and negotiations
were so great that there was imminent danger that the city
would be surrendered before the treaty could be completed.
Inglesant therefore left Kilkenny immediately, and, posting to
Dublin without loss of time, embarked for Anglesey, and
arrived there on the 29th of December. Here he procured
horses, and, crossing the island, he passed over into Flintshire
and proceeded towards Chester. It was exceedingly unfortunate
that he had not arrived a few days before, as the Parliamentary
army, having lately received a reinforcement of
Colonel Booth and the Lancashire forces who had just reduced
Fathom House, had now entirely surrounded the city,
guarding with sufficient force every gate and avenue, causing
a great scarcity of provisions, and rendering it almost impossible
for any one to gain admission to the garrison.

CHAPTER XII.

LORD Iron and some of the commissioners who were
associated with him in the defence of the city were at
supper in a long, low room in the castle on the evening of the
1 2 th of January. Lord Biron and more than one of the noblemen
and gentlemen then in Chester had their ladies with them,
but they lived apart, mostly at Sir Francis Gammul's house in
the Lower Bridge Street, opposite to St. Slave's Church, and
were provided for rather better than the rest ; but the commanders
partook of exactly the same food as the rest of the
besieged, and their supper that night consisted of nothing but
boiled wheat, with water to drink. The conversation was very
flat, for the condition of the besieged was becoming utterly
hopeless ; and although they had rejected several offers of
capitulation, they foresaw that it could not be long before they
should be obliged to submit The town had been singularly
free from discontent and mutiny, and Lord Biron's high position
and renown made him particularly fitted for the post he
filled ; but he felt that the task before him was well-nigh hopeless.
He sat buried in thought, few of the other gentlemen
present spoke, and they were on the point of separating, Lord
Biron to make the round of the walls, when a servant came up
from the court below, saying that there was a man below in
the dress of a miner, who said he was Mr. Inglesant, the
King's gentleman, and wished to see his lordship.

"Who did you say?" exclaimed Lord Biron, and the others
crowded round in excitement, "Inglesant, the King's Esquire?"

"John Inglesant"

"The Esquire of the Body?"

No doubt from Oxford and the King."

How could he have got in?"

"In the dress of a miner, he says."

Perhaps the King is near at hand ?"

At any rate he has not forgotten us."

He has used his Jesuit's teaching to some purpose."

These and many other exclamations were uttered while
Lord Biron told the servant to send Inglesant up at once.
He entered the room in his miner's dress, his hands and face
stained with dust, his hair matted and hanging over his eyes.
He carried a large kind of bag, such as the miners used, and
his first action was to place it on the table, and to remove from
it five or six bottles of claret, a large ham, and a goose.

I knew you were somewhat short here," he said, " and I
ran the risk of bringing these things, though I do not know,
if I had been caught, that it would have told much against me,
for we miners live well, I can tell your lordship."

But how on earth did you get in ?" said Lord Biron, " and
where have you come from?"

I thought I never should have got in," he replied. " The
leaguer is well kept, and there is scarcely a weak point But
I fear," he added sadly, " from the state I find you in, it really
mattered little whether I got in or not."

Oh, never say that," said Lord Biron cheerily ; " the sight
of you is a corps of relief in itself. Come in here and let me
hear what you have to say. I will not keep the news a moment
from you, gentlemen," he added courteously to the rest.

If you will pardon me, my lord," said Inglesant, " and
allow me a moment to wash this dirt off, and if some one
would lend me a suit of clothes, it would be a courtesy. I had
to leave my own in Flintshire, and these are none of the
pleasantness. My news will keep a few minutes, and your lordship

will be all the better for a glass or two of this claret,
which is not the worst you ever drank."

Lord Biron took him into another room, and left him to
change his dress, lending him one of his own suits of clothes.
Inglesant really wished to gain time, and also to say what he
had to say with every advantage of appearance and manner,
for he felt that his mission was a difficult one — how difficult he
felt he did not know.

When he came back he found the gentlemen had opened
one of the bottles, and were drinking the wine very frugally,
but with infinite relish. They were warm in their thanks to
Inglesant, and in congratulations on his improved appearance.
Lord Biron took him on one side at once.

Inglesant had a letter for him from the Duke of Ormond,
which the Duke had given him unsealed, telling him to read
it. John Inglesant had done so several times during his
journey, and did not altogether like its contents. The Duke
alluded by name to Lord Glamorgan, and mentioned the
number (10,000) of the troops intended to be sent to England.
Neither fact would Inglesant have wished to communicate
himself, at any rate at once, and he had resolved not to deliver
the letter until he saw how Lord Biron took the rather vague
information he intended to give him. But . there is always
this difficulty with negotiations of this kind, that while the first
requisite is entire frankness, the least caution, even at the
beginning, may convey a sense of suspicion which nothing
afterwards can remove. Inglesant felt, therefore, that he
should have to watch Lord Biron most closely, and decide
instantly, and on the spur of the moment, when to trust him
and to what extent.

He began, after Lord Biron had expressed his cordial
admiration at his exploit and his sense of obligation, by telling
him he came direct from Lord Ormond, in Dublin, and that
his object in getting into Chester was to let them know that

they might expect relief from Ireland, at most within a few
days, and to urge them to hold out to the last moment and
the last bag of wheat.

Without appearing to do so, he watched Lord Biron
narrowly as he spoke, and saw that he expected to hear a great
deal more than this vague account

He went on telling him of his interview with Ormond, of
the King's great anxiety for the relief of Chester, and the difficulties
the Lord Lieutenant met with in treating with the Irish ;
but he saw that Lord Biron was manifestly getting impatient.
At last the latter said, —

"But you have not told me, Mr. Inglesant, where this
relief is to come from. Ormond has no troops to spare — he
has told us so often ; indeed, all the troops that could be spared
passed through Chester years ago when the truce was first proclaimed.
He must keep all his to keep those murderous
villains, the Irish Papists, in check. They will respect no truce.
We hear something of Lord Glamorgan ; have you seen him
in Ireland? Have you no letter from Ormond to me?"

Inglesant saw that he must trust him at once to a very
great extent.

I have a letter from the Duke to you," he said ; " but I
wish first to show you this warrant the King gave me at
Oxford, that you may see I do not speak without his authority.
When he gave me that, he told me all the negotiations which
the Duke was engaged in, at his desire, with the Irish Papists ;
and all that I tell you has been done with his sanction. As
to Lord Glamorgan, I saw him at Kilkenny ; he is striving all
he can to second the Lord Lieutenant's efforts with the Irish
and the Papal Nuncio, and he has the fullest warrant from the
King."

Lord Biron read the warrant from the King carefully more
than once ; then returned it, and took Lord Ormond's letter,
which he also read once or twice.

Inglesant walked to the window and looked out.

The letter is not sealed, Mr. Inglesant," Lord Biron said.

No," said Inglesant, " the Duke insisted on my bringing
it open, and on my reading it. I requested him to seal it, but
he refused."

And you have read it ?"

"Certainly."

I see he speaks of a very large contingent — 10,000 men,
and that Glamorgan is to get them entirely from the Irish
Papists. Ten thousand Irish Papists and murderers in England,
Mr. Inglesant, is not what I should like to see, and I do
not like the negotiation being entrusted so much to Glamorgan,
a determined Papist. We know not what concessions he may
make unknown to the King. I beg your pardon for my plain
speaking; — they say you are half a Papist yourself."

"You will only have 3000 men sent here," said Inglesant,
and from what I saw in Ireland I fear it may be some time
before the rest follow. Besides, surely, my lord, nothing can
be worse than your present state here."

It is sad enough, certainly, but there may be things much
worse. I tell you, sir, I would rather die of hunger on these
walls than see my country given over to murderous Irish
rebels and savage Kerns. And bad as the King's affairs are
at present, I am convinced that His Majesty would endure all
gladly, rather than make any concessions to such as these, —
much less expose England to their ravages."

The troops who will be sent will be under the strictest
orders, and commanded by gentlemen of honour and rank,"
said Inglesant ; " and I assure your lordship, upon my sacred
word of honour as a Christian, that nothing will be attempted
but what has His Majesty's cordial consent."

Lord Biron was unsatisfied, but Inglesant considered he
had achieved a success; his lordship had plainly not the
least suspicious feeling towards him, all his dissatisfaction

arising from his dislike to the means proposed for his relief.
He would, moreover, hold out as long as possible, and this all
the more as he saw help approaching, from whatever source it
came.

They went back to the other officers, and communicated
the news to them, rather to their disappointment ; for Inglesant
having spoken some words of encouragement to the soldiers of
the guard below, the report had run through Chester that the
King was at hand with 3000 horse. The effect, however,
which Inglesant's news produced in Chester was altogether
exhilarating. Officers, soldiers, and inhabitants set to work
with redoubled vigour, and Inglesant became a hero wherever
he went, and was introduced to Lady Biron and the ladies,
who received him with gratitude, as though he had already
raised the siege. He was himself, however, very far from
being at ease, as day after day passed and no signs of help
appeared. Lord Biron, though showing the greatest signs of
confidence openly, had evidently become more and more
hopeless, and continually sought opportunities of speaking to
Inglesant privately ; and Inglesant found it impossible to avoid
letting him see more and more into the real facts of the case ;
so that the Duke and his share in the negotiations fell, day by
day, deeper into the shade, and Lord Glamorgan and his share
appeared every day in greater prominence. Lord Biron expressed
himself increasingly dissatisfied, and suspicious that
such negotiations did not originate with the King ; but as no
help or troops of any kind appeared, these imaginary dangers
were not of much import. Sir William Brereton, the Parliamentary
commander, was continually sending letters summoning
them to surrender. Nine of these they refused, but when
there appeared no longer any hopes of succour, Lord Biron
answered the tenth. To this Sir William answered, upbraiding
Lord Biron with having delayed so long, " every day producing
loss of blood and expense of treasure," but offering to appoint

commissioners to treat on the terms of surrender. This letter
was received on the 26th of January, and the same day Lord
Biron replied. Sir William's answre came the next day, and
the same morning, that is on the 27 th of January, an event
occurred which decided Lord Biron to surrender, and at the
same time sealed Inglesant's fate.

Early in the forenoon a rumour spread through Chester,
the source of which could not be discovered, but which no
doubt arose from some soldiers' gossip between the outposts.
It was said that some great Earl (Lord Glamorgan's name was
immediately introduced into the report, but whether it was in
the original rumour is doubtful) had been arrested in Ireland,
for having concluded in the King's name, but without his
sanction, a treaty with the Irish rebels and Papists, by which
the latter were relieved from all disabilities and restored to
the command of the island, in return for which they agreed to
march a large army into England, to destroy the Parliament
and the Protestant party, and restore the King and Popery.
This report, garnished with great variety of additional horrors,
spread rapidly through the city, and about ten o'clock reached
Lord Biron's ears. Chiming in as it did with his worst suspicions,
it excited and alarmed him not a little. His first
thought was of Inglesant, and he sent at once to his lodgings
to know if he was within. Inglesant had spent the whole of
the night at one of the advanced bastions, where, having some
reason to believe that the enemy were working a mine, the
garrison made a sortie, and, wearied out, had come home to
his room in the Bridge Street to rest. His wounds, and
especially the one in his head, which had been supposed to
be cured, began to affect him again, probably through exhaustion,
excitement, and want of food, and for several days he
had felt a giddiness and confusion of brain which at times was
so great that he scarcely knew what he did. He had scarcely
fallen asleep on the great bed in the small room, crowded with

the valuables of the good people of the house in which he
lodged, when the messenger from the governor entered the
room and aroused him. Sending the man back before him he
waited a few minutes to collect his faculties and arrange his
dress, and then followed him to the Castle. He found Lord
Biron in the state dining-room, a noble room, handsomely
furnished, with large windows at the end over-looking the Dee
estuary, and a great carved fireplace, before which Lord Biron
was standing, impatiently awaiting him.

Mr. Inglesant," he said, as he entered the room, " you
showed me once a commission from His Majesty; will you let
me see it again?"

Inglesant, who had heard nothing of the rumour that had
caused such dismay, and who suspected nothing, immediately
produced the paper and handed it to Lord Biron, who took
out another from his pocket, and compared the two carefully
together, going to the window to do so.

Then, coming back to Inglesant, and holding the two
papers fast in his hand, he said : —

Mr. Inglesant, I have heard this morning, what I have
reason to believe is true, that the Lord Glamorgan has been
arrested in Dublin by the King's Council for granting the
Papists terms in the King's name, and conspiring to bring over
a Papist army into England. Have you any knowledge of
such matters as these ? "

Inglesant's astonishment and dismay were so unfeigned
that Lord Biron saw at once that such news was most unexpected
by him. He had indeed, among all the dangers he
was on his guard against, never calculated upon such as this.
Distasteful as he supposed the negotiations with the Papists
would be to numbers of the Church party, the idea never
entered his mind that any loyal authorities would take upon
them, without communicating with the King, the responsibility
of arresting the negotiations or making them public, and this

with a high hand, presupposing that they were without the
King's sanction. But, supposing this extraordinary news to
be true, he saw at once an end to his efforts, — he saw himself
at once helpless and deserted, nothing before him but long
imprisonment and perhaps death.

He stood for some moments looking at Lord Biron, the
picture of astonishment and dismay. At last he said, —

"I cannot think, my lord, that such news can be true.
What possible motive could the Council have to take such a
step? I give you my word of honour as a Christian, that
Lord Glamorgan has done nothing but what he had authority
for from the King."

You are much in his confidence evidently, sir," said Lord
Biron severely ; " but I am inclined to believe my information
nevertheless."

But he had commission and warrants signed by the King
himself; and private letters from him, which would have removed
all suspicion," said Inglesant,

Yes, sir, no doubt he had commissions, professedly from
the King, as you have," said Lord Biron still more severely.
Your commission names Lord Glamorgan, and you are evidently
of one council with him. Will you pledge me your
honour that this paper was written by the King?"

And he held out Inglesant's commission,

Johnny hesitated : the circumstances of the case were beginning
to arrange themselves before him, racked and weary
as his brain was. If this news were true, if the Lord Lieutenant
and the Council had really disclaimed, in the King's name,
the negotiations, and boldly before the world proclaimed them
unauthorized, and the warrants a forgery, the game was evidently
played out, and his course clear before him, dark and
gloomy enough. Yet he thought he would make one effort to
recover the paper, a matter, whatever might turn out, of the
first importance to the King.

If I swear to you, Lord Biron, that the King wrote it,
will you give it me back?"

"lam sorry, sir, that I cannot," said Lord Biron, " I am
grieved at my heart to do anything which would seem to doubt
in the least the word of a gentleman such as I have always
believed you to be ; but in the post I hold, and in the crisis
of an affair so terribly important as this, I must act as my
poor judgment leads me. I cannot give this paper up to anyone
until I learn more of this distressing business."

If I swear to you," said Inglesant, beaten at every point,
but fighting to the last, " that it is the King's writing, will you
give me your word of honour that you will burn it immediately?"

No, sir," said the other loftily; " what the King has been
pleased to write, it can be the duty of no man to conceal."

Then it is not the King's," said Inglesant.

Lord Biron stared at him for a moment, then folded up the
papers carefully, and replaced them in his pocket-case. Then
he went to the door of the dining-room at the top of the stairs
and called down.

"Without ! send up a guard."

Inglesant unhooked his sword from the scarf, and handed
it to Lord Biron without a word. Then he said, —

It can be of no advantage to me now, may probably tell
against me, when I entreat your lordship to believe me when
I tell you, as I hope for salvation before the throne of God,
that if you burn that paper now you will be glad of it everyday
you live."

I certainly shall not burn it, sir," said the other, speaking
now with a cold disdain. And he turned his back upon
Inglesant, and stood looking at the fire.

Johnny went to the window and looked out. The bright
winter's sun was shining on the walls and roofs of the town,
on the dancing waves of the estuary, and on the green oak
banks of Flintshire beyond. He remembered the view long

afterwards, as we remember that on which the eye rests almost
unconsciously in any supreme moment of our lives.

Presently the guard came up.

This gentleman is under arrest," said Lord Biron to the
sergeant ; " you will secure him in one of the strong rooms of
the tower, and see that he has fire and his full share of provisions
until the garrison is relieved; but no one must be
admitted to see him, and you are responsible for his person
to me. You can send word to your servant to bring you anything
you may want from your lodgings, Mr. Inglesant," he
said, " but he must not come to you, and all the things must
pass through my hands."

Inglesant bowed, " I have to thank you for the courtesy,
Lord Biron," he said ; " I have nothing to complain of in your
treatment of me."

The other turned away, half impatiently, and Inglesant
followed the sergeant to his room, the guard following one by
one, through the passages and up the narrow staircase of the
tower.

It was a pleasant room enough, fitted with glass windows
strongly barred. The sergeant caused a fire to be lighted, and
left Inglesant to himself.

It was the first time he had ever been imprisoned, and as
the door locked upon him that terrible feeling crept over him
which the first sense of incarceration always brings, — a nameless
dread and a frantic desire of escape, of again mixing with
fellow-men. But to Inglesant this sad feeling was increased
immensely by the circumstances that surrounded him, and
the peculiar nature of his position. The very nature of his
position debarred him from all hope, cut him off from all help
alike from friend and foe. Those who in any other case would
be most forward to help him were now his jailers, nay, he was
turned by this strange reverse into his own jailer and enemy ;
debarred from attempting anything to help himself, he must

actually employ all his energies in riveting the chains more
tightly on his limbs, in preparing the gallows himself. Exposed
to the contempt and hatred of all his friends, of those
dearer to him than friends, he could make no effort to clear
himself, nay, every word he spoke must be nicely calculated
to increase their aversion and contempt. He was worn and
ill and half-starved, and his brain was full of confusion and
strange noises, yet the idea of faltering in his course never so
much as presented itself to him. The Jesuit's work was fully
done.

The next day the Commissioners for the surrender of the
city met, and the day after Sir William Brereton's commissioners
made a formal announcement of the news that had
been received from Ireland. Lord Glamorgan, they said, had
arrived in Dublin from Kilkenny. The 26th of December
was fixed for him to appear before the Council, but in the
meantime letters were received by several persons in Dublin
giving an account of some papers found on the person of the
titulary Archbishop of Team, who was slain in an encounter
at Sligo in October. The papers contained the details of the
treaty come to between Lord Glamorgan and the Papists,
which details threw the Council into such dismay that they
concluded that if such things were once published, and they
could be believed to be done by his Majesty's authority, they
could have no less fatal an effect than to make all men conclude
all the former scandals cast upon His Majesty of the
inciting the Irish Rebellion true ; that the King was a Papist,
and designed to introduce Popery even by ways the most
unkingly and perfidious ; and consequently, that there would
be a general revolt of all good Protestants from him. Now,
the Council, considering all this, and also hearing that the
affair was already public through Dublin, and beginning to
work such dangerous effects that they did not consider themselves
safe, they concluded that the only course open to them

was to arrest Lord Glamorgan in the Council, which was
accordingly done on the 26th of December.

The Commissioners also informed Lord Biron that they
were told that there were many Irish in Chester, born of
Irish parents, who had formerly served in the rebel armies in
Ireland, and that also there was even then in Chester an
emissary from Lord Glamorgan. They therefore demanded
that these Irish should be exempted from the general terms of
surrender, and made over to them as prisoners of war, and
that the emissary from Lord Glamorgan should also be given
up to them as a traitor, seeing that he was condemned by the
royal party as well as by themselves.

To this it was answered by Lord Biron's Commissioners
that the Irish — such at least as were born of Irish parents and
had served with the rebels — should be delivered as they
requested, and that as to Mr. Inglesant, the emissary alluded
to, he was already under arrest on the charge of treason, and
should remain so until more of this affair could be known,
when, if the truth appeared to be as was supposed, he should
be given up also.

With this the Parliamentary Commissioners professed
themselves satisfied, and the treaty was proceeded with, and
on the 3d of February Chester was formally surrendered.
On the same day Sir William Brereton informed Lord Biron
that the King, in a message to the Parliament, dated from
Oxford, January 29th, utterly repudiated all knowledge of the
Earl of Glamorgan's proceedings, and denied that he had
given him any authority whatever to treat with the Irish
Papists. Sir William added, he supposed Lord Biron would
no longer have any scruple to surrender the person of Lord
Glamorgan's emissary, as by so doing could he alone convince
men of the sincerity of his belief in the King's freedom from
complicity in his designs. Lord Biron answered that he had
nothing to object to in this, and would give Mr. Inglesant up,

VOL. I. N

and indeed it was not in his power to do anything else. On
the 3d day of February the Parliamentary forces were marched
into the town, and Lord Biron with his lady, and the rest of
the noblemen and gentlemen and their ladies, prepared to
leave. According to the articles of the treaty, carriages were
provided for them and their goods, and a party of horse
appointed to convey them to Conway. The ladies and gentlemen
were assembled at Sir Francis Gammul's in the lower
Bridge Street. The street was blocked with carriages and
horses, and carts full of goods ; companies of foot were forcing
their way through ; the overhanging rows and houses were full
of people, the Church bells were ringing, the Parliamentary
officers passing to and fro. There was a certain amount of
relief and gaiety in all hearts ; the Royalists were relieved from
the hardships of the siege, and were expecting to go to their
homes ; the Parliamentarians, of course, were jubilant. The
principal inhabitants of Chester were the worst off, but even
they looked forward to a time of quiet, and to the possibility
of at last retrieving their losses and their position in the town.
Amid all this confusion and bustle, a sergeant's guard entered
the room where Inglesant was confined, and desired him to
accompany them to the commander, that the transfer of his
person might be arranged. He followed them out of the
castle, by St. Mary's Church, and up the short street into the
Bridge Street, at the corner of which Sir Francis Gammul's
house stood. Forcing his way through the crowd that gaped
and pressed upon them, the sergeant conducted Inglesant into
the house, and up into one of the principal rooms, where the
commanders and the ladies and many others were assembled.
A crowd of curious spectators pressed after them to the door as
soon as it was known whom the sergeant had brought ; a dead
silence fell upon the whole company, and the two commanders,
who were seated at a table, on which were the articles of surrender,
rose and gazed at Inglesant. A confused murmur, the

nature of which it would have been difficult to describe, ran
through the room, and the ladies pressed together, with mingled
timidity and curiosity, to look on. Inglesant was thin and pale,
his clothes shabby and uncared for, his hair and moustache
undressed, his whole demeanour cowed and dispirited — very
different in appearance from the fine gentleman who had
played Pilaster before the Court. Doubtless, many among
the Royalists pitied him j but at present no doubts were felt, or
at any rate had time to circulate, of the King's sincerity, and
the dislike to the Jesuits, even by the High Church Loyalists,
closed their hearts against him. The Lord Biron asked him
whether he had anything to say before he was delivered over
to Sir William, to which he replied, —
No."

He made no effort to speak to any one, or to salute Lady
Biron or any of his acquaintances, but stood patiently, his eyes
fixed on the ground.

Sir William asked whether he adhered to his statement
that the commission he had exhibited was a forgery ?
At which he looked up steadily, and said, —
Yes ; it was not written by the King."
As he made the avowal a murmur of indignation passed
through the room, and Sir William ordered him to be removed,
telling him he should be examined tomorrow, the account of
his answers sent up to London, and the will of the Parliament
communicated to him as soon as possible. Inglesant bowed
in reply and turned to leave the room, making no effort to
salute or take leave of any one ; but Lord Biron stopped him
with a gesture, and said, probably actuated by some feeling
which he could not have explained, —

I wish you good-day, Mr. Inglesant. I may never see
you again."

Inglesant looked up, a slight flush passing over his features,
and their eyes met.

I wish you good-day, my lord," he said ; " you have acted
as a faithful servant of the King."

Lord Biron made no further, effort to detain him, and he
left the room.

The next day he was brought up before Sir William Bretton,
and examined at great length. He stated that the plot
had originated with the Roman Catholics, especially the Jesuits,
whose envoy Lord Glamorgan was ; that all the warrants and
papers were forged by them, and that he had received his instructions
and the King's commission from Father St. Clare
himself. He stated that if the design failed, the King was to
know nothing of it, and if it succeeded it was supposed that
he would pardon the offenders on consideration of the benefits
he would receive. A vast mass of evidence was taken by Sir
William from Irish soldiers, inhabitants of Chester, and people
of every description, relative to what had taken place in the
city, and all was sent to London to the Parliament. In the
course of a few days orders came down to bring Inglesant upto
town, together with some of the most important witnesses,
to be examined before a Committee of the House of Commons ;
and this was accordingly done at once, Sir William Brereton
accompanying his prisoner and conveying him by easy stages
to London, where he was confined in St. James's palace till
the will of the Parliament should be known.

CHAPTER XIII.

WHEN the news of the arrest of the Earl of Glamorgan
reached Oxford, it caused the greatest consternation,
and the King wrote letters, in his own name and in that of the
Chancellor, to the Parliament and to all the principal politicians
denying all participation in or knowledge of his negotiations.

The most violent excitement prevailed on the subject allover
England. All parties, except the Papists, joined in
expressing the most lively horror and indignation at proposals
which not only repudiated the policy of the last hundred years,
and let loose the Papists to pursue their course unimpeded,
but also placed England at the mercy of the most repulsive
and lawless of the followers of the Roman Catholic faith. The
barbarities of the Irish rebels, which were sufficiently horrible,
were magnified by rumour on every side ; and the horror which
the English conceived at the thought of their homes being laid
open to those monsters, was only equalled by their indignation
against those who had conceived so treasonable and unnatural
a plot. Besides this, the King having denied all knowledge
of such negotiations, the indignation of all loyal Churchmen
was excited against those who had so treasonably and miserably
done all they could to compromise the King's name, and
make him odious to all right-thinking Englishmen. The
known actors in this affair being very few, consisting, indeed,
only of the Earl and Inglesant, and of the Jesuits (which last
was a vague and intangible designation, standing in the ordinary
English mind merely as a synonym for all that was wicked, base,

and dangerous), and the Earl being, moreover, out of reach, the
public indignation concentrated on Inglesant, and his life would
have been worth little had he fallen into the hands of the mob.
When the news of the fall of Chester and of Inglesant's arrest
and subsequent transference to the Parliamentary commander,
reached Oxford, the King sent for the Jesuit privately, and
received him in his cabinet at Christ Church.

The King appeared anxious and ill, and as though he did
not know where to turn or what to do.

"You have heard the news, Father, I suppose," he said.
Lord Biron, as well as Digby, has taken upon himself to
keep the King's conscience, and know the King's mind better
than he does himself. How many Kings there are in England
now, I do not know, but I have ever found my most faithful
servants my most strict masters. You know Jack Inglesant
has been given over to the rebels ? What are we to do for
him?"

Your Majesty can do nothing," said the Jesuit. " All
that could be done has been done, and as far as may be has
been done well. All that your Majesty has to do now is to
be silent."

"Then Inglesant must be given up," said the King.

He must be given up. Your Majesty has no choice."

Another ! " said the King, bitterly. " Strafford, whose
blood tinges every sight I see ! Laud, Glamorgan, now
another! What right have I to suppose my servants will
be faithful to me, when I give them up, one by one, without
a word?"

"Your Majesty does not discriminate," said the Jesuit;
"your good heart overpowers your clearer reason. It is as
much your duty, for the good of the State, to be deaf to the
voice of private feeling and friendship, as it is for your servants
to be deaf to all but the call of duty to your Majesty ; and
this your servants know, and do not dream that they have any

cause to complain. Strafford and the Archbishop both acknowledged
this, and now it will be the same again. There is no
fear of John Inglesant, your Majesty."

No," said the King, rising and pacing the closet with
unequal steps, "there is no fear of John Inglesant, I believe
you. There is no fear that any man will betray his friends,
and be false to his Order and his plighted word, except the
King ! — except the King ! "

Apparently the Jesuit did not think it worth while to
answer this outbreak, for he said, after a pause, —

"Your Majesty has written to Glamorgan?"

"Yes, I have told him to keep quiet," said the King, sitting
down again ; " he is in no danger — I am clear of him.
But do you mean to say, Father, that Inglesant must be left
to the gallows without a word ? "

No, I do not say that, your Majesty," said the other; " the
rebels will do nothing in a hurry, you may depend. They will
do all they can to get something from him which may be useful
against your Majesty, and it will be months before they
have done with him. I have good friends among them, and
shall know all that happens. When they are tired of him, and
the thing is blown over a little, I shall do what I can."

"And you are sure of him," said the King; "any evidence
signed by him would be fatal indeed."

Your Majesty may be quite easy," said the other, "lam
sure of him."

"They will threaten him with the gallows," said the King,
"life is sweet to most men."

I suppose it is," said the Jesuit, as if it were an assertion
he had heard several times lately, and began to think he must
believe; "I have no experience in such matters. But, however
sweet it may be, its sweetness will not induce John
Inglesant to utter a syllable against the cause in which he is
engaged."

You are very confident of your pupil," said the King. " I
hope you will not be deceived."

The Jesuit smiled, but did not seem to think it necessary
to make any further protestations, and soon after left the closet.
*****

Inglesant remained some time in confinement at St. James's
before he was summoned before the Parliamentary Committee ;
but at the beginning of March another of those extraordinary
events occurred which seemed arranged by some providential
hand to fight against the King. A packet boat put into pastor,
in Cornwall, supposing it to be a royal garrison ; on discovering
their mistake, and some slight resistance having been
overpowered, the captain threw a packet of letters and some
loose papers overboard. The papers were lost, but the packet
was fished out of the sea, and proved to contain the most important
of the correspondence from Lord Digby, describing
the discovery of the plot, the articles of agreement with the
Papists, the copy of the warrant from the King to the Earl of
Glamorgan, and several letters from the Earl himself, all asserting
his innocence of any actions but those directed and approved
by the King. These letters were published in extenso
by the Parliament in a pamphlet which appeared on the 17 th
of March. The information contained in these papers was of
the greatest use to the Parliament, for, though there was nothing
in them absolutely to inculpate the King (indeed the letters of
Lord Digby, as far as they went, were strong proofs to the
contrary), yet it placed it in their power to make assertions and
inquiries based upon fact, and it brought forward Lord Glamorgan
as an evidence on their side. If they could now have
produced a confession signed by Inglesant to the same effect,
the case would have been almost complete — at any rate few
would have hesitated to call the moral proof certain. A Committee
of the Commons was appointed to examine Inglesant,
and he was summoned to appear before them.

On the day appointed he was brought from St. James's
across the park in a sedan, guarded by soldiers, and not being
recognised escaped without any notice from the passers-by.

The Committee sat in one of the rooms of the Parliament
House, and began by asking Inglesant his name.

I understand," said one of the members savagely, " that
your name is Inglesant, of a family of courtiers and sycophants,
who for generations have earned their wretched food by doing
any kind of dirty work the Court set them ; and that they
never failed to do it so as to earn a reputation even among
the mean reptiles of the Court precincts. This is true, is it
not ? And you have held some of those posts which an honest
man would scorn."

Inglesant had recovered his health during his imprisonment,
thanks to rest and sufficient food, and his manner was
quiet and confident. To the attack of the Parliamentarian he
answered simply, —

My name is Inglesant j I have been Esquire of the Body
to the King."

The Chairman checked the warmth of the Puritan, and
began to question Inglesant concerning the plot, endeavouring
to throw him off his guard by mentioning facts which had come
to their knowledge through the recent discoveries. But Inglesant
was prepared with his story. Though he was surprised
at the amount of knowledge the Committee possessed, yet he
stood to his assertion that he knew nothing of any instructions
except those which he had himself received, and that the
whole plot originated with the Jesuits, as far as he knew, and
had every reason to believe. When he was asked how he, a
Protestant and a Churchman, could lend himself to such a
plot, he replied that he was very much inclined to the Romish
Church, and that he thought the King's affairs so desperate
that the plan of obtaining help from the Irish rebels appeared
to him and to Father St. Clare as almost the only resource

ordered Inglesant to be brought in through a side door ; and
he came up to the bar.

His appearance was so altered, and his manner so cowed
and embarrassed, that a murmur ran through the room, and
Lord Biron could not restrain an exclamation of pity. Inglesant
started when he saw him, for he had been kept in complete
ignorance of what had occurred, and his mind immediately
recurred to the commission. He was evidently
making the greatest efforts to collect himself, and keep
himself calm. Nothing could have told more against himself,
or in favour of the part he was playing, than his whole
demeanour.

He was examined minutely on the circumstances of his
arrest, and related everything exactly as it occurred, which,
indeed, he had done before — both his relations tallying
exactly with Lord Biron's.

When asked what his business was in Chester, he said —
to prepare the Cavaliers to receive the Irish help ; and
added that he had been obliged to communicate a great deal
more to Lord Biron than he had wished or intended, and that
Lord Biron had always manifested the greatest suspicion of
him and of his mission.

He gave his evidence steadily, but without looking at
Lord Biron, or indeed at any one.

When asked why he wished to recover possession of the
commission, or at least to induce Lord Biron to burn it, he
replied, —

Lest it should serve as evidence against myself."

This seemed to most present a very natural answer ; yet it
caused Lord Biron to start, and to fix a searching glance on
Inglesant.

As a gentleman of high breeding and instinctive honour,
it jarred upon his instinct, and conveyed a sudden suspicion
that Inglesant was acting. That the latter might be so utterly

perverted by his Jesuit teaching as to be lost to all sense of
right and truth, he was prepared to believe ; that he might
have been led into treason knowingly or inadvertently, he was
willing to think ; but the low and pitiful motive that he gave
was so opposed to his previous character, notorious for a
fantastic elevation and refinement of sentiment, that it supposed
him a monster, or that some miracle had been wrought
upon him. A terrible doubt — a doubt which Biron had once
or twice already seen faintly in the distance — approached
nearer and looked him in the face.

The Committee had examined the commission one by
one, comparing it with some of the King's writing which they
had before them ; finally it passed into the hands of a Mr.
Greenway, a lawyer, and skilled in questions of evidence and
of writing, who examined it attentively.

It was curious to see the behaviour of the two men under
examination while this was going on ; Lord Biron, as a noble
gentleman, from whose mind the doubt of a few minutes ago
had passed, standing erect and confident, looking haughtily
and freely at the expert, secure in his own honour and in that
of his King ; Inglesant, cowed and anxious, leaning forward
over the bar, his eyes fixed also on the lawyer — pale, his lips
twitching, — the very picture of the guilty prisoner in the dock.

The expert looked at both the men curiously, then threw
down the paper contemptuously.

"It is a palpable forgery," he said; "and not even a
clever imitation of the King's hand."

And indeed, from some accident or other, the letters were,
some of them, formed in a manner unusual to the King.

Inglesant, weakened with illness and anxiety, could not
restrain a movement of intense relief. He drew a long breath
and stood erect, as if relieved from an oppressive weight. He
raised his eyes, and they caught those of Lord Biron, which
had been attracted towards him, and were fixed full on his face.

ordered Inglesant to be brought in through a side door ; and
he came up to the bar.

His appearance was so altered, and his manner so cowed
and embarrassed, that a murmur ran through the room, and
Lord Biron could not restrain an exclamation of pity. Inglesant
started when he saw him, for he had been kept in complete
ignorance of what had occurred, and his mind immediately
recurred to the commission. He was evidently
making the greatest efforts to collect himself, and keep
himself calm. Nothing could have told more against himself,
or in favour of the part he was playing, than his whole
demeanour.

He was examined minutely on the circumstances of his
arrest, and related everything exactly as it occurred, which,
indeed, he had done before — both his relations tallying
exactly with Lord Biron's.

When asked what his business was in Chester, he said —
to prepare the Cavaliers to receive the Irish help ; and
added that he had been obliged to communicate a great deal
more to Lord Biron than he had wished or intended, and that
Lord Biron had always manifested the greatest suspicion of
him and of his mission.

He gave his evidence steadily, but without looking at
Lord Biron, or indeed at any one.

When asked why he wished to recover possession of the
commission, or at least to induce Lord Biron to burn it, he
replied, —

Lest it should serve as evidence against myself."
This seemed to most present a very natural answer ; yet it
caused Lord Biron to start, and to fix a searching glance on
Inglesant.

As a gentleman of high breeding and instinctive honour,
it jarred upon his instinct, and conveyed a sudden suspicion
that Inglesant was acting. That the latter might be so utterly

perverted by his Jesuit teaching as to be lost to all sense of
right and truth, he was prepared to believe \ that he might
have been led into treason knowingly or inadvertently, he was
willing to think ; but the low and pitiful motive that he gave
was so opposed to his previous character, notorious for a
fantastic elevation and refinement of sentiment, that it supposed
him a monster, or that some miracle had been wrought
upon him. A terrible doubt — a doubt which Biron had once
or twice already seen faintly in the distance — approached
nearer and looked him in the face.

The Committee had examined the commission one by
one, comparing it with some of the King's writing which they
had before them; finally it passed into the hands of a Mr.
Greenway, a lawyer, and skilled in questions of evidence and
of writing, who examined it attentively.

It was curious to see the behaviour of the two men under
examination while this was going on ; Lord Biron, as a noble
gentleman, from whose mind the doubt of a few minutes ago
had passed, standing erect and confident, looking haughtily
and freely at the expert, secure in his own honour and in that
of his King; Inglesant, cowed and anxious, leaning forward
over the bar, his eyes fixed also on the lawyer — pale, his lips
twitching, — the very picture of the guilty prisoner in the dock.

The expert looked at both the men curiously, then threw
down the paper contemptuously.

"It is a palpable forgery," he said; "and not even a
clever imitation of the King's hand."

And indeed, from some accident or other, the letters were,
some of them, formed in a manner unusual to the King.

Inglesant, weakened with illness and anxiety, could not
restrain a movement of intense relief. He drew a long breath
and stood erect, as if relieved from an oppressive weight. He
raised his eyes, and they caught those of Lord Biron, which
had been attracted towards him, and were fixed full on his face.

Biron started again ; there was not the least doubt that
Inglesant rejoiced in the proof of the forgery of the warrant.
That terrible doubt stood close now before his lordship and
grasped him by the throat.

Suppose, after all, this man whom he had imprisoned and
despised, whose mission he had thwarted — this man whom all
the royal party were calling by every contemptuous name, who
stood there pale, cowed, beaten down ; — suppose, after all, that
this man, alone against these terrible odds, was all the time
fighting a desperate battle for the King's honour, forsaken by
God and men ! But the consequences which would follow, if
this view of the matter were the true one, were, in Lord Biron's
estimation, too terrible to be thought of.

I wish to say," said Inglesant, looking straight before
him, " that the Lord Biron obtained possession of that paper
when he was in possession of information of which I was
ignorant. His lordship would probably have behaved differently,
but he thought he was speaking to a thief."

There was something in this covert reproach, so worded,
which so exactly accorded with what was passing in Lord
Biron's mind that it cut him to the quick.

"I assure you, Mr. Inglesant," he said eagerly, "you are
mistaken. Whatever I may think of the cause in which you
are engaged, I have always wished to behave to you as to a
gentleman. If you consider that you have cause of complaint
against me, I shall be ready, when these unhappy complications
are well over, as I trust they may be, to give you satisfaction
and to beg your pardon afterwards."

He said these last words so pointedly that Inglesant started,
and saw at once that his fear had been well founded, and that,
thrown off his guard by the success of the examination of the
warrant, he had made a mistake. He looked up quickly at
Biron — a strange terror in his face — and their eyes met.

That they understood each other is probable ; at any rate

Inglesant's look was so full of warning that Biron understood
that if nothing more, and restrained himself at once. All this
had passed almost unnoticed by the Committee, who were
consulting together.

Lord Biron left the room, and Inglesant was taken back
to the Tower as he had come. Mr. Secretary Milton, who
had been present as a spectator, left the Parliament House
and proceeded at once to Clerkenwell Green to the house of
General Cromwell, and related to him and to General Ireton,
who was with him, what had occurred.

"They have gained nothing by getting this warrant," he
said ; " nay, you have lost rather. You have brought up Lord
Biron, who comes forward in the light of day and with the
utmost confidence, and challenges this paper to be a forgery,
and your own lawyers bear him out in it I have not the least
doubt it is the King's ; but some of the letters, either purposely
or more probably by accident, are not in his usual hand, and
the best judges cannot agree on these matters. Out of Inglesant
you will get nothing. He is a consummate actor, as I
have known of old. He is prepared at every point, and carefully
trained by his masters the Jesuits. I know these men,
and have seen them both here and abroad. Acting on select
natures the training is perfect. They will go to death more
indifferently than to a Court ball. You may rack them to the
extremity of anguish, and in the delirium of pain they will
say what they have been trained to say, and not the truth.
You may wear him out with fasting and anxiety until he makes
some mistake ; he made two to-day, besides one which was a
necessity of the case, — for I do not see what else he could have
said, — that was so slight that no one saw it but Biron. Weakened
by anxiety, doubtless, he could not restrain a movement
of relief when the expert declared the warrant a forgery ;
Biron saw that too, for I watched him. Last, which was the
greatest mistake of all, and would show that his training is not

entirely perfect, were we not to make allowance for his broken

health, he forgot his part, and suffered his passion to get the

better of him, and to taunt Lord Biron in such a way that

Biron, who I think till then honestly believed the King's word,

very nearly let out the truth in his astonishment. But what

do you gain by all this ? It rather adds to the apparent truth

of the man's story, and gives life to his evidence. Nothing

but his written testimony will be of any use, and this you will

never get."

He shall be tried for his life at any rate," said Cromwell.

"You have threatened him with that already."

Threatening is one thing," replied the General ; " to stand

beneath the gallows condemned to death another."

*****

News of the taking of Chester and of the arrest of John
Inglesant on such a terrible charge — a charge at once of
treason against the King, his country, and his religion — as it
travelled at once over England, reached Gidding in due course.
It caused the greatest dismay and distress in that quiet household.
About the middle of April a gentleman of Huntingdon,
a Parliament man, who had lately come from London, dined
with the family. He told them during dinner that he had
been present in the Committee room when Mr. Inglesant had
been examined. When dinner was over Mr. John Ferrar, who
was now at the head of the family, remained at table with this
gentleman, being anxious to hear more, and Mary Collet also
stayed to hear what she could of her friend, watching every
word with eager eyes. In that family, where there was nothing
but love and kindliness and entire sympathy, it was thought
only natural that she should do so, and no ill-natured thought
occurred to any member of it. The Parliament man described
more at full the examination before the Committee, and Inglesant's
worn and guilty appearance, — sad news, indeed, to both
his hearers. He described Lord Biron's examination and the
production of the forged warrant.

"And did John Inglesant admit that it was forged?" said
Mr. Ferrar.

Yes, he said from his own knowledge that it was prepared
by Father St. Clare the Jesuit."

It is a strange world," said Mr. Ferrar dreamily, " and
the Divine call seems to lead some of us into slippery places —
scarcely the heavenly places in Christ of which the Apostle
dreamt."

The gentleman did not understand him, nor did Mary
Collet altogether until afterwards.

Presently Mr. Ferrar said, —

"And what do you think of it all? Was the warrant
forged or not?"

I am somewhat at a loss what to think," said the other,
"I am not, as you know, Mr. Ferrar, and without wishing to
offend you, an admirer of the King, but I do not believe him
to be a fool and mad. There is no doubt that he has tampered
with the Papists throughout, yet I cannot think, unless he is
in greater extremities than we suppose, that he would have
practised so wild and mad a scheme as this one of the Irish
rebels and murderers. On the other hand, I can conceive
nothing too bad for the Jesuits to attempt ; and it seems to me
that I can discern something of their hand in this — an introduction
of an armed Papist force into the country, to be joined,
doubtless, by all the English Papists ; only I should have
thought they could have procured this without bringing in the
King's name, but doubtless they had some reason for this also.
The general opinion among the Parliament men is that the
warrant is the King's, and that he has planned the whole thing.
On the other hand, it is plain the Cavaliers do not believe it,
or Lord Biron would never have come boldly up of his own
accord, and brought up the warrant so confidently."

But does not the warrant itself prove something one way
or the other?" said Mr. Ferrar.

vol. 1. o

These things are very difficult to judge upon," said the
gentleman. " The expert to whom the Committee gave it
pronounced it a forgery upon the spot, but he has been greatly
blamed for precipitancy ; and others to whom it has been shown
pronounce it genuine. Some of the letters certainly are not
like the King's, but the style of the hand is the King's, they
say, even in these unusual letters. By the way, if you had
seen Inglesant's guilty look when the expert took the paper in
his hand, you would say with me it was a forgery. You could
not, to my mind, have a stronger proof."

But if the King had ordered this, would not he help Mr.
Inglesant?" Mary Collet ventured to say.

Help ? madam," said the gentleman warmly, " when did
the King help any of his friends ?"

Whichever way it is," said Mr. Ferrar mildly, " he cannot
help. To help would be to condemn himself in public opinion,
which in these unhappy distractions he dare not do. Did Lord
Biron speak to Mr. Inglesant, sir?"

"Very little. They taunted each other once, and seemed
about to come to blows. All the evidence went to show that
Lord Biron suspected him from the first.

The gentleman soon after left. Mr. Ferrar returned to
the dining-room after seeing him to his horse, and found
Mary Collet sitting where they had left her, lost in sad and
humiliating thought.

He sat down near her and said kindly, —
My dear Mrs. Mary, I hardly know which of the two
alternatives is the best for your friend — for my friend; but it is
better at least for you to know the truth, and I think I can
now pretty much tell which is the true one. If this plot were
altogether the Jesuits', John Inglesant would not say it. If
the King had no hand in it, proof would be given a thousand
ways without having recourse to this. There are other facts
which to my mind are conclusive that this way of thinking is

the right one, but I need not tell them all to you. What I
have said I should say to none but you. You will see that it
is of the utmost importance that you say nothing of it to any.
I believe you may comfort yourself in thinking that, according
to the light which is given him, John Inglesant is following
what he believes to be his duty, and none can say at any rate
that it is a smooth and easy path he has chosen to walk in."

Mary Collet thanked him, her beautiful eyes full of tears,
and left the room.

A few days afterwards the news ran like wildfire over England
that the King had left Oxford secretly, and that no one
knew where he was ; and a night or two afterwards Mr. John
Ferrar was called up by a gentleman who said he was Dr. Hudson,
the King's Chaplain, and that the King was alone, a few paces
from the door, and that he would immediately fetch him in.

Mr. Ferrar received His Majesty with all possible respect.
But fearing that Gidding, from the known loyalty of the family,
might be a suspected place, for better concealment he conducted
the King to a private house at Coppingford, an obscure
village at a small distance from Gidding, and not far from
Stilton. It was a very dark night, and but for the lantern Mr.
Ferrar carried, they could not have known the way. As it
was, they lost their way once, and wandered for some time ina
ploughed field. Mr. Ferrar always spoke with the utmost
passionate distress of this night, as of a night the incidents of
which must have awakened the compassion of every feeling
heart, however biassed against the King. As a proof of the
most affecting distress, the King, he said, was serene and even
cheerful, and said he was protected by the King of kings.
His Majesty slept at Coppingford, but early in the May morning
he was up, and parted from Mr. Ferrar, going towards
Stamford. Mr. Ferrar returned to his house, and two days
after it was known that the King had given himself up to the
Scottish army.

CHAPTER XIV.

INGLESANT remained in prison, and would have thought
that he had been forgotten, but that every few weeks he
was sent for by the Committee and examined. The Committee
got no new facts from him, and indeed probably did
not expect to get any ; but it was very useful to the Parliament
party to keep him before the public gaze as a Royalist and a
Jesuit. It was a common imputation upon the Cavaliers that
they were Papists, and anything that strengthened this belief
made the King's party odious to the nation. Here was a
servant of the King's, an avowed Jesuit, and one self-condemned
in the most terrible crimes. It is true he was disowned
by the royal party, apparently sincerely ; but the general
impression conveyed by his case was favourable to the Parliament,
and they therefore took care to keep it before the world.
These examinations were looked forward to by Inglesant with
great pleasure, the row up the river and the sight of fresh faces
being such a delight to him. He was not confined to his
room, being allowed to walk at certain hours in the court of
the Tower, and he found a box containing a few books, a
Lucretius, and a few other Latin books, probably left by some
former occupant of the cell. These were not taken from him,
and he read and re-read them, especially the Lucretius, many
times. They saved him from utter prostration and despair, —
they, and a secret help which he acknowledged afterwards, — a
help, which to men of his nature certainly does come upon
prayer to God, to whatever source it may be ascribed j — a help

which in terrible sleepless hours, in hours of dread weariness
of life, in hours of nervous pain more terrible than all, calms
the heart and soothes the brain, and leaves peace and cheerfulness
and content in the place of restlessness and despair.
Inglesant said that repeating the name of Jesus simply in the
lonely nights kept his brain quiet when it was on the point of
distraction, being of the same mind as Sir Charles Lucas,
when, " many times calling upon the sacred name of Jesus,"
he was shot dead at Colchester.

More than a year passed over him. From the scraps of
news he could gather from his jailer, and from the soldiers in
the court during his walks, he learnt that the King had been
given up by the Scots, had escaped from Hampton Court, had
been retaken and sent to Carisbrooke, and was soon to come
to London, the man said, for his trial.

It was soon after he had learnt this last news that his jailer
suddenly informed him that he was to be tried for his life.

Accordingly, soon after, a warrant arrived from Bradshaw,
the President of the Council of State, to bring him before that
body.

The Council sat in Essex House, and some gentlemen,
who had surrendered Pembroke upon terms that they should
depart the country in three days, but — accounting it base to
desert their prince, and hoping that there might be farther occasion
of service to His Majesty, — had remained in London,
were upon their trial. When Inglesant arrived with his guard
these gentlemen were under examination, and one of them,
who had a wife and children, was fighting hard for his life,
arguing the case step by step with the lawyers and the Council.
Inglesant was left waiting in the anteroom several hours ; from
the conversation he overheard, the room being constantly full
of all sorts of men coming and going — soldiers, lawyers,
divines — he learnt that the King's trial was coming on very
soon, and he fancied that his name was mentioned as though

the nearness of the King's trial had something to do with his
own being hurried on. It was a cold day, and there was a
large fire in the anteroom. Inglesant had had nothing to eat
since morning, and felt weak and faint. He wished the other
examinations over that his own might come on; his, he thought,
would not take long. At last the gentlemen were referred to
the Council of War, to be dealt with as spies, and came out
of the Council chamber with their guards. The one was a
plain country gentleman, and neither of them knew Inglesant,
but, stopping a moment in the anteroom, while the guard prepared
themselves, one of them asked his name, saying he was
afraid they had kept him waiting a long time. This was
Colonel Eustace Powell, and Inglesant met him again when
he thought he had only a few minutes to live.

The Council debated whether they should hear Inglesant
that day, as it was now late in the afternoon, and the candles
were lighted, but finally he was sent for into the Council.

As soon as he came to the bar, Bradshaw asked him suddenly
when he saw the King last, to which he replied that he
had not seen the King since Naseby field.

"You were at Naseby, then?" said Bradshaw.

Yes," said Inglesant.

"And you ran away, I suppose?"

"Yes," said Johnny, "I ran away."

"Then you are a coward as well as a traitor," said Bradshaw.

I am not braver than other men," said Inglesant.

Inglesant was then examined more in form, but very
shortly ; everything he said having been said so often before.

The President then told him that, by his own confession,
he was guilty of death, and should be hanged at once if he persisted
in it, but that the Council did not believe his confession —
indeed, had evidence and confessions from others to prove the
reverse ; and therefore, if he persisted in his course, he was his
own murderer, and could hope for no mercy from God. That

if he would sign the declaration which they offered him, which
they knew to be true, and which stated that he had only acted
under the King's orders, he should not only have his life
spared, but should very shortly be set at liberty.

To this he replied that if they had evidence to prove what
they said, they did not want his ; that he could not put his
name to evidence so contrary to what he had always confessed,
and was prepared to stand by to death ; that, as to his fate
before God, he left his soul in His hands, who was more
merciful than man.

To this Bradshaw replied that they were most merciful to
him, and desired to save him from himself; that, if he died,
he died with a lie upon his lips, from his own obstinacy and
suicide.

Making no answer to this, he was ordered back to the
Tower, and warned to prepare himself for death. He saw
clearly that their object was to bring out evidence signed by
him on the eve of the King's trial, which no doubt would have
been a great help to their cause. As he went back in his
barge to the Tower, he wondered why they did not publish
something with his name attached, without troubling themselves
about his consent. As they went down the river, the
darkness became denser, and the boat passed close to many
other wherries, nearly running them down ; the lights on the
boats and the barges glimmered indistinctly, and made the
course more difficult and uncertain. They shot the bridge
under the mass of dark houses and irregular lights, and proceeded
across the pool towards the Tower stairs. The pool
was somewhat clear of ships, and the lanterns upon the
wharves and such vessels as were at anchor made a clearer
light than that above the bridge. As they crossed the pool, a
wherry, rowed by a single man, came towards them obliquely
from the Surrey side, so as to approach near enough to discern
their persons, and then, crossing their bows, suffered itself to

be run down before the barge could be stopped. The waterman
climbed in at the bows, as his own wherry filled and went
down. He seemed a stupid, surly man, and might be supposed
to be either deaf or drunk. To the abuse of the soldiers
and watermen he made no answer but that he was an up-river
waterman, and was confused by the lights and the current of
the bridge. The officer called him forward into the stern, and
as he came towards them Inglesant knew him in [spite of his
perfect disguise. It was the Jesuit. He answered as many
of the officer's questions as he appeared to understand, and
took no manner of notice of Inglesant, who of course appeared
entirely indifferent and uninterested. When they landed at
the stairs, the waterman, with a perfectly professional manner,
swung himself over the side into the water, and steadied the
boat for the gentlemen to land, which act the officer took as
an awkward expression of respect and gratitude. As Inglesant
passed him he put his hand up for his to rest on, and Johnny
felt a folded note passed into it. Without the least pause, he
followed the officer across the Tower wharf, and was conducted
to his room. As soon as he was alone he examined the paper,
which contained these words only : —

You are not forgotten. Keep on a little longer. The
end is very near."

It made little impression upon him, nor did it influence his
after conduct, which had already been sufficiently determined
upon. He expected very little help from any one, though he
believed that Father St. Clare would do what he could. The
Jesuit would have died himself at any moment had his purpose
required it, and he could not think that he would regard as of
much importance the fall of another soldier in the same rank.
He was mistaken, but he did not know it; the Jesuit, beneath
his placid exterior, retained for his favourite and cleverest pupil
an almost passionate regard, and would have done for him far
more than he would have thought worth the doing for himself.

Meanwhile, Inglesant translated his words into a different language,
and thought more than once that doubtless they were
very true, and that, though in a sense not intended, the end
was very near.

This took place at the beginning of December, and about a
week afterwards the jailer advised Inglesant to prepare for
death, for the warrant to behead him was signed, and would be
put into execution that day week at Charing Cross. He immediately
sent a petition to the Council of State, that a Priest,
either of the Roman Catholic or the English Church, he was
indifferent which, might be sent him. To this an answer was
sent immediately that he was dying with a lie upon his lips, and
that the presence of no priest or minister could be of any use
to him, and would not be granted. The same day a Presbyterian
minister was admitted to him, who used the same arguments
for some time without effect, representing the fearful
condition that Inglesant was in as an unrepentant sinner.
Inglesant began to regret that he had made any application,
and this regret was increased two days afterwards when a man,
who offered him certain proofs that he was a Roman Catholic
Priest, was admitted, and gave him the same advice, refusing
him Absolution and the Sacrament unless he complied. Upon
this Inglesant became desperate, and refused to speak again.
The Priest waited some time and then left, telling him he
was eternally lost.

This was the severest trial he had yet met with ; but his
knowledge of the different parties in the Romish Church, and
the extent to which they subordinated their religion to their
political intrigues, was too great to allow him to feel it so much
as he otherwise would. He resigned himself to die unassisted.
He applied for an English Prayer Book, but this also was
refused. He remembered the old monastic missals he had
possessed at Westacre, and thought over all those days with
the tenderest regret.

The fatal morning arrived at last. Inglesant had passed
a sleepless night ; he had not the slightest fear of death, but
excitement made sleep impossible. He thought often of his
brother, but he had learned that he was in Paris alone ; and
even had he been in England, he felt no especial desire to
see him under circumstances which could only have been intensely
painful. Mary Collet he thought of night and day, but
he knew it was impossible to obtain permission to see her, and
he was tired of fruitless requests. He was tired and wearied
of life, and only wished the excitement and strain over, that he
might be at rest. It struck him that the greatest harshness
was used towards him ; his food was very poor and of the
smallest quantity, and no one was admitted to him ; but he
did not wonder at this, knowing that his case differed from any
other Loyalist prisoner.

At about eight o'clock on the appointed morning, the same
officer who had conducted him before entered his room with
the lieutenant of the Tower, bringing the warrant for his death.
The lieutenant parted from him in a careless and indifferent
way. They went by water and landed by York Stairs, and
proceeded by back ways to a house nearly adjoining Northumberland
House, facing the wide street about Charing Cross.
From one of the first floor windows a staircase had been contrived,
leading up to a high scaffold or platform on which the
block was fixed. Inglesant had not known till that morning
whether he was to be hanged or beheaded ; like every other
thought, save one, it was indifferent to him — that one, how
he should keep his secret to the last. In the room of this
house opening on the scaffold, he found Colonel Eustace
Powell, whom he had met at Essex House, who was to precede
him to death. He greeted Inglesant with great kindness, but,
as Johnny thought, with some reserve. He was a very pious
man, strongly attached to the Protestant party in the Church
of England, and he had passed the last three days entirely in

the company of Dr. S , who was then in the room with

him, engaged in religious exercises, and his piety and resignation
had attached the Doctor to him very much. The Doctor
now proceeded to ask the Colonel, before Inglesant and the
others, a series of questions, in order that he should give some
account of his religion, and of his faith, charity, and repentance,
to all of which he answered fully ; that he acknowledged his
death to be a just punishment of God for his former sins ;
that he acknowledged that his just due was eternal punishment,
from which he only expected to escape through the satisfaction
made by Christ, by which Mediator, and none other, he hoped
to be saved. The Doctor then asking him if, by a miracle
(not to put him in vain hope), God should save him that day,
what life he would resolve to lead hereafter ? he replied, " It
is a question of great length, and requires a great time to
answer. Men in such straits would promise great things, buta
vow I would make, and by God's help endeavour to keep it,
though I would first call some friend to limit how far I should
make a vow, that I might not make a rash one, and offer the
sacrifice of fools."

In answer to other questions, he said, — " He wished well
to all lawful governments ; that he did not justify himself in
having ventured against the existing one ; he left God to judge
it whether it be righteous, and if it be, it must stand. He
desired to make reparation to any he had injured, and he forgave
his enemies."

The Doctor then addressed him at length, saying, —
Sir, I shall trouble you very little farther. I thank you
for all those heavenly colloquies I have enjoyed by being in
your company these three days, and truly I am sorry I must
part with so heavenly an associate. We have known one
another heretofore, but never so Christianity before. I have
rather been a scholar to learn from you than an instructor. I
wish this stage, wherein you are made a spectacle to God,

angels, and the world, may be a school to all about you ; for
though I will not diminish your sins, yet I think there are few
here have a lighter load upon them than you have, and I only
wish them your repentance, and that measure of faith that God
hath given you, and that measure of courage you have attained
from God."

The Colonel, having wished all who were present in the
room farewell, went up on the scaffold accompanied by the
Divine. The scaffold was so near that Inglesant and the
officers and the guards, who stood at the window screened
from the sight of the people, could hear every word that passed.
They understood that the whole open place was densely
crowded, but they could scarcely believe it, the silence was so
profound.

Colonel Powell made a speech of some length, clearing
himself of Popery in earnest language, not blaming his judges,
but throwing the guilt on false witnesses, whom, however, he
forgave. He bore no malice to the present Government, nor
pretended to decide controversies, and spoke touchingly of the
sadness and gloom of violent death, and how mercifully he was
dealt with in being able to face it with a quiet mind. He
finally thanked the authorities for their courtesy in granting him
the death of the axe — a death somewhat worthy of his blood,
answerable to his birth and qualification — which courtesy had
much helped towards the pacification of his mind.

Inglesant supposed the end was now come, but to his surprise
the Doctor again stepped forward, and before all the
people repeated the whole former questions, to each of which
the Colonel replied in nearly the same words.

Then, stepping forward again to the front of the scaffold,
the Colonel said, speaking to the people in a calm and tender
voice, —

There is not one face that looks upon me, though many
faces, and perhaps different from me in opinion and practice

but methinks hath something of pity in it; and may that
mercy which is in your hearts now, be meted to you when
you have need of it ! I beseech you join with me in prayer."

The completest silence prevailed, broken only by a faint
sobbing and whispering sound from the excited and pitying
crowd. Colonel Powell prayed for a quarter of an hour with
an audible voice ; then taking leave again of his friends and
directing the executioner when to strike, he knelt down to the
block, and repeating the words, " Lord Jesus, receive me," his
head was smitten off with a blow.

A long deep groan, followed by an intense silence, ran
through the crowd. The officer who accompanied Inglesant
looked at him with a peculiar expression ; and, bowing in
return, Inglesant passed through the window, and as he
mounted the steps and his eyes came to the level of, and then
rose higher than the interposing scaffold, he saw the dense
crowd of heads stretching far away on every hand, the house
windows and roofs crowded on every side. He scarcely saw
it before he almost lost the sight again. A wild motion that
shook the crowd, a roar that filled the air and stunned the
sense, a yell of indignation, contempt, hatred, hands shook
and clutched at him, wild faces leaping up and staring at
him, cries of " Throw him over ! " " Give over the Jesuit tous
! " " Throw over the Irish murderer ! " made his senses reel
for a moment, and his heart stop. It was inconceivable that
a crowd, the instant before placid, pitiful, silent, should in a
moment become like that, deafening, mad, thirsting for blood.
The amazing surprise and reaction produced the greatest
shock. Hardening himself in a moment, he faced the people,
his hat in his hand, his pale face hard set, his teeth closed.
Once or twice he tried to speak ; it would have been as easy
to drown the Atlantic's roar. As he stood, apparently calm,
this terrible ordeal had the worst possible effect upon his
mind. Other men came to the scaffold calm in mind, prepared

by holy thoughts, and the sacred, tender services of the
Church of their Lord, feeling His hand indeed in theirs.
They spoke, amid silence and solemn prayers, to a pitying
people, the name of Jesus on their lips, the old familiar words
whispered in their ears, good wishes, deference, respect all
around, their path seemed smooth and upward to the heavenly
gates. But with him — how different ! Denied the aid of
prayer and sacrament, alone, overwhelmed with contempt
and hatred, deafened with the fiendish noise which racked his
excited and overwrought brain. He was indifferent before;
he became hardened, fierce, contemptuous now. Hated, he
hated again. All the worst spirit of his party and of his age
became uppermost. He felt as though engaged in a mad
duel with a despised yet too powerful foe. He turned at
last to the officer, and said, his voice scarcely heard amid the
unceasing roar, —

You see, sir, I cannot speak ; do not let us delay any
longer."

The officer hesitated, and glanced at another gentleman,
evidently a Parliament man, who advanced to Inglesant, and
offered him a paper, the purport of which he knew by this
time too welL

He told him in his ear that even now he should be set at
liberty if he would sign the true evidence, and not rush upon
his fate and lose his soul. He repeated that the Parliament
knew he was not guilty, and had no wish to put him to death.

Inglesant saw the natural rejoinder, but did not think it
worth his while to make it. Only get this thing over, and
escape from this maddening cry, tearing his brain with its
terrible roar, to something quieter at any rate.

He rejected the paper, and turning to the officer he said,
with a motion towards the people of inexpressible disdain, —

These good people are impatient for the final act, sir ;
do not let us keep them any longer."

The officer still hesitated, and looked at the Parliament
man, who shook his head, and immediately left the scaffold.
The officer then leaned on the rail, and spoke to his lieutenant
in the open space round the scaffold within the barriers.
The latter gave a word of command, and the soldiers fell out
of their rank so as to mingle with the crowd. As soon as the
officer saw this manoeuvre completed, he took Inglesant's arm,
and said hurriedly, — " Come with me to the house, and
be quick." Not knowing what he did, Inglesant followed
him hastily into the room. They had need to be quick. A
yell, to which the noise preceding it was as nothing — terrible
as it had been, — a shower of stones, smashing every pane of
glass, and falling in heaps at their feet, — showed the fury of a
maddened, injured people, robbed of their expected prey.

The officer looked at Inglesant, and laughed.

I thought there would be a tumult," he said; " we are not
safe here ; the troops will not oppose them, and they will
break down the doors. Come with me."

He led Inglesant, still almost unconscious, through the
back entries and yards, the roar of the people still in their
ears, till they reached a stair leading to the river, where was a
wherry and two or three guards. The officer stepped in after
Inglesant, crying, "Pull away! The Tower!" then, leaning
back, and looking at Inglesant, he said, —

"You stood that very well. I would rather mount the
deadliest breach than face such a sight as that."

Inglesant asked him if he knew what this extraordinary
change of intention meant.

To which he replied, —

No ; I acted to orders. Probably you are of more use to
the Parliament alive than dead; besides, I fancy you have
friends. I should think you are safe now."

That afternoon, a report spread through London that
Inglesant, the King's servant, had confessed all that was

required of him upon the scaffold, and had his life given him
in return. This report was believed mostly by the lower
orders, especially those who had been before the scaffold ; but
few of the upper classes credited it, and even these only did
so for a day or two. The Parliament made no further effort ;
and Inglesant was left quietly in prison.

This happened on the 19th of December, and on the 20th
of January the King's trial began. That could scarcely be
called a trial which consisted entirely in a struggle between
the King and the Court on a point of law. In the charge of
high treason, read in Westminster Hall against the King,
special mention was made of the commission which he " doth
still continue to the Earl of Ormond, and to the Irish rebels
and revolters associated with him, from whom further invasions
upon the land are threatened." There appear to have been
no witnesses examined on this point, all that were examined
during three days, in the painted chamber, simply witnessing
to having seen the King in arms. Indeed, all witnesses were
unnecessary, the sentence having been already determined
upon, and the King utterly refusing to plead or to acknowledge
the Court The King, indeed, never appeared to such
advantage as on his trial ; he was perfectly unmoved by any
personal thought ; no fear, hesitation, or wavering appeared in
his behaviour. He took his stand simply on the indisputable
point of law that neither that Court, nor indeed any Court, had
any authority to try him. To Bradshaw's assertion that he
derived his authority from the people, he in vain requested a
single precedent that the Monarchy of England was elective,
or had been elective, for a thousand years. In his abandonment
of self, and his unshaken constancy to a point of principle,
he contrasted most favourably with his judges, whose
sole motive was self. That none of the Parliamentary leaders
were safe while the King lived is probable ; but sound statesmanship
does not acknowledge self-preservation as an excuse

for mistaken policy, and the murder of the King was not morea
crime than it was a blunder. Having been condemned by
this unique Court, he was, with the most indecent haste, hurried
to his end. A revolting coarseness marks every detail of the
tragic story ; the flower of England on either side was beneath
the turf or beyond the sea, and the management of affairs was
left in the hands of butchers and brewers. Ranting sermons,
three in succession, before a brewer in Whitehall, is the medium
to which the religious utterance of England is reduced, and
Ireton and Harrison in bed together, with Cromwell and
others in the room, signed the warrant for the fatal act. The
horror and indignation which it impressed on the heart of the
people may be understood a little by the fact, that in no
country so much as in England the peculiar sacredness of
Monarchy has since been carried so far. The impression
caused by his death was so profound, that, forty years afterwards,
when his son was arrested in his flight, the only thing
that during the whole course of that revolution caused the
least reaction in his favour was (according to the Whig Burnet)
the fear that the people conceived that the same thing was
going to be acted over again, and men remembered that saying
of King Charles — "The prisons of princes are not far from their
graves." He walked across the park from the garden at St.
James's that January morning with so firm and quick a pace
that the guards could scarcely keep the step, and stepping
from his own banqueting house upon the scaffold, where the
men who ruled England had so little understood him as to
provide ropes and pulleys to drag him down in case of need,
he died with that calm and kingly bearing which none could
assume so well as he, and by his death he cast a halo of
religious sentiment round a cause which, without the final act,
would have wanted much of its pathetic charm, and struck
that keynote of religious devotion to his person and the
vol. 1. * p

Monarchy which has not yet ceased to reverberate in the
hearts of men.

"That thence the royal actor borne
The tragic scaffold might adorn,
While round the armed bands
Did clap their bloody hands :
He nothing common did, nor mean,
Upon that memorable scene ;
But with his keener eye
The axe's edge did try ;
Nor called the gods with vulgar spite
To vindicate his helpless right,
But bowed his comely head
Down, as upon a bed."

The Republic an, Andrew Marvell.

CHAPTER XV.

INGLESANT remained in the Tower for several months
after the King's death. The Lords Hamilton, Holland,
and Capet were the first who followed their royal master to
the block, and many other names of equal honour and little
inferior rank followed in the same list. In excuse for the
murders of these men there is no other plea than, as in the
case of their master — self-preservation. But the purpose was
not less abortive than the means were criminal. The effect
produced on the country was one of awe and hatred to the
ruling powers. Thousands of copies of the King's Book,
edged with black, were sold in London within the few days
following his death, and Milton was obliged to remonstrate
pitifully with the people for their unaccountable attachment to
their King. The country, it is true, was for the moment
cowed, and, although individual gentlemen took every opportunity
to rise against the usurpers, and suffered death willingly
in such a cause, the mass of the people remained quiet. The
country gentlemen indeed were, as a body, ruined ; the head
of nearly every family was slain, and the widows and minors
had enough to do to arrange, as best they might, with the
Government agents who assessed the fines and compositions
upon malignant' estates. It required a few years to elapse
before England would recover itself, and declare its real mind
unmistakably, which it very soon did ; but during those years
it never sank into silent acquiescence to the great wrong that
had been perpetrated. It is the custom to regard the Commonwealth

as a period of great national prosperity and peace.
Nothing can be a greater mistake. There never was a
moment's peace during the whole of Cromwell's reign of power.
He began by destroying that Parliament utterly, for seeking
the arrest of five members of which the King lost his crown
and was put to death. The best of the Republican party
were kept in prison or exiled, just as the King had been
seized and executed by Cromwell, independently of the Parliament.
But the oppressed sections of the Puritan party never
ceased to hate the usurper as much as the Royalists did, and
the want of their support insured the fall of the Republic the
moment the master hand was withdrawn.

After a few months Inglesant's imprisonment was much
lighter; he was allowed abundance of food, and liberty to walk
in the courtyards of the Tower, and was allowed to purchase
any books he chose. He had received a sum of money from
an unknown hand, which he afterwards found to have been
that of Lady Cardiff, his brother's wife, and this enabled him
to purchase several books and other conveniences. He
remained in prison under these altered circumstances until
the end of January 1650, when, one morning, his door opened,
and without any announcement his brother was admitted to
see him. Eustace was much altered ; he was richly dressed,
entirely in the French mode, his manner and appearance were
altogether those of a favourite of the French Court, and he
spoke English with a foreign accent He greeted his brother
with great warmth, and it need not be said that Johnny was
delighted to see him.

Eustace told his brother at once that he was free, and
showed him the warrant for his liberation.

I was in Paris," he said, " on the eve of starting for
England on affairs which I will explain to you in a moment,
when ' votre ami ' the Jesuit came to see me. He told me he
understood I was going to England on my private affairs, but

he thought possibly I might not object to do a little service
for my brother ; — you know his manner. He said if I would
apply in certain quarters, which he named to me, I should
find the way prepared, and no difficulties in obtaining your
release. The words were true, and yesterday I received this
warrant As soon as it is convenient to you I shall be glad
for you to leave this sombre place, as I want you to come with
me to Oulton, to my wife, — my wife, who is indeed so perfectly
English in all her manners, as I shall proceed to explain to
you. Since you were at Oulton my wife has been growing
worse and worse in health, and more and more eccentric and
crotchety \ every new remedy and every fresh religious notion
she adopts at once. She has filled the house with quacks, of
whom Van Helmont is chief, mountebanks, astrologers, and
physicians, — a fine collection of beaux-esprits. The last time I
was there I could not see her once, though I stayed a fortnight
; she was in great misery, extremely ill, and said she was
near her last. Since I have been in Paris I have been obliged
to give up many of my suppers with the French King and
Lords, from her letters saying she is at the point of death.
She is ill at present, and no one has seen her these ten days ;
but I suppose it is much after the same sort ; and she sends
me word that Van Helmont has promised that she shall not
be buried, but preserved by his art till I can come and see her.
To crown all, she has lately become a Quaker, and in my
family all the women about my wife, and most of the rest, are
Quakers, and Mons. Van Helmont is governor of that flock, —
an unpleasing sort of people, silent, sullen, and of reserved
conversation, though I hear one of the maids is the prettiest
girl in all the county. These and all that society have free
access to my wife, but I believe Dr. More, the Platonist, who
is a scholar and gentleman, if an enthusiast, though he was in
the house all last summer, did not see her above once or twice.
She has been urging me for months to search all over Europe

for an eagle's stone, which she says is of great use in such
diseases as hers ; and when I, at great labour and expense,
found her one, she sends back word that it is not one, but that
some of her quacks were able to decipher it at once, and that
it is a German stone, such as are commonly sold in London
at five shillings apiece. I have grown learned in these stones,
by which the fairies in our grandfather's time used to preserve
the fruits from hail and storms. There is a salamander stone.
This eagle stone is one made after a cabalistic art and under
certain stars, and engraved with the sign of. an eagle. I could
prove their virtue to you," he continued laughing, " throughout
all arts and sciences, as Divinity, Philosophy, Physic,
Astrology, Physiognomy, Divination of Dreams, Painting,
Sculpture, Music, and what not This affair of the stone, and
these reports of sickness and death, however, and doleful
stories of coffins prepared by art, and of open graves, would
not have brought me over, but for another circumstance of
much greater moment. When I was in Italy and stayed sometime
at Venice, and was desirous of engaging in some of the
intrigues and amusements of the city, I was recommended to
an Italian, a young man, who made himself useful to several
of the nobility, as a man who could introduce me to, and
show me more of that kind of pleasure, than any one else. I
found him all that had been represented to me, and a great
deal more, for, not to tell you too long a story, he was an
adept at every sort of intrigue, and was acquainted at any rate
with every species of villany and vice that the Italians have
conceived. The extent to which they carry these tastes of
theirs cannot be described, and from them the wildest of the
gallants of the rest of Europe start back amazed. To cut this
short, I was very deeply engaged to him, and in return I held
some secrets of his, which he would not even now have known.
At last, upon some villanous proposal made by him, I drew
upon him. We had been dining at one of the Casinos in St.

Mark's Place, and I would have run him through the body,
but the crowd of mountebanks, charlatans, and such stuff,
interposed and saved him. I have often wished since I had.
He threatened me highly, but as I was a foreigner and
acquainted with most of the principal nobles, he could do meno
harm. He endeavoured to have me assassinated more
than once, and one Englishman was set upon and desperately
wounded in mistake for me; but by advice I hired bravoes
myself who baffled his plots, for I had the longest purse. I
knew nothing of him afterwards until I heard that he had left
Italy, a ruined and desperate man, whose life was sought by
many ; and the next thing I heard, not many weeks ago, was
that he was at Oulton, having gained admission to my wife asa
foreign physician who had some especial knowledge of her
disease. She fancies herself much the better for his nostrums,
and gives herself entirely to his directions, and I believe he
professes Quakerism, or some sort of foreign mysticism allied
to it, which has established him with the rest of her confidants.
I no sooner heard this pleasing information than I resolved to
come over to England at once, and at least drive away this
villain from my family, even if I had no other way to do it
than by running him through the body, as I might have done
in Italy. I, however, sent a messenger to my wife to inform
her that I was coming, and on my reaching London a few
days ago, I found him waiting for me with a packet from
Oulton. In a letter my wife desires me earnestly not to come
to Oulton to see her, as she is assured by good hands that
some imminent danger awaits me if I do, and she encloses
this horoscope, which no doubt one of her astrologers has prepared
for her. Now I have no doubt the Italian is at the
bottom of all this, and that, at his instigation, the horoscope
has been drawn out ; yet I confess that it appears to me to
have something about it that looks like the truth, something
beyond what would be written at the instigation of an enemy.

You can read it and judge for yourself. I have dabbled a
little in astrology as in other arts."

John Inglesant took the paper from his brother and examined
it carefully. At the top was an astrological scheme, or
drawing of the heavens, taken at some moment when the
intention of Eustace to come to Oulton had first become
known to his wife. Beneath was the judgment of the adept,
in the following words : —

Saturn, the signification of the queried, being in conjunction
with Venus, I judge him to have gained by ladies to a
considerable extent, to be much attached to them, greatly
addicted to pleasure, and very fortunate where females are
concerned, and to be a man of property. The signification
being affected both by Mercury, lord of the eighth in the
figure, and also by Mars, the lord of the queried's eighth
house, and the aspect of separation of the moon being bad, —
namely, conjunction of Jupiter and square of Mercury, who is
ill aspect to Jupiter, and is going to a square of the sun on
the cusp of the mid-heaven, — I judge that the queried is in
imminent danger of death ; and the lord of the third house
being in the eighth, and the signification being combust, in
conjunction with the lord of the eighth, and the hyleg afflicted
by the evil planets, makes it more certain. His signification
being in the eleventh house denotes that at the present time
he is well situated and with some near friend (I should judge,
as he is well aspect with the moon, the lady of the third
house, a brother), and happy. Mars being in the ascendant,
and the cusp of the first house wanting only three degrees of
the place of the evil planet in a common sign, I judge the
time of death to occur in three weeks' time, and that it will
be caused by a sword or dagger wound, by which Mars kills.
The danger lies to the south-west — south, because the quarter
of the heaven where the lord of the ascendant is, is south —
west, because the sign where he is, is west."

John Inglesant read this paper two or three times, and
returned it to his brother with a smile. "I should not be
greatly alarmed at it," said he; "that is not a true horoscope,
or rather it is a true horoscope tampered with. The
man who erected the scheme, I should say, was an honest
man, though not a very clever astrologer. It has, however, as
most schemes have, a glimmering of a truth not otherwise
known (you and I being together, which no one at Oulton
could have thought of, though you see he was wrong as to the
time) ; but some other hand has been at work upon the judgment,
and a very unskilful one. It contradicts itself. What
is most important, however, is that the artist has no ground to
take Saturn for your signification, which should be either the
lord of the third house, the cusp of the third, or the planets
therein, neither of which Saturn is. Besides, he takes the
place of Fortune to be hyleg, for which he has no ground.
He has taken Saturn as signification, as suiting what he knows
of your character, and I think there is no doubt the Italian's
hand is in this. Now I should rather say that Venus, the lady
of the third, being signification and applying to a friendly trine
of Jupiter, lord of the ascendant, and Saturn being retrograde,
and Venus also casting a sextile to the cusp of the ascendant,
is a very good argument that the queen should see the
queried speedily, and that in perfect health. I would have
you think no more of this rubbish, with which a wicked man
has tried to make the heavens themselves speak falsely."

I did not know you were so good an astrologer, Johnny,"
said his brother.

Father St. Clare taught it me among other things," said
Inglesant ; " and I have seen many strange answers that he has
known himself; but it is shameful that the science should be
made a tools by designing men."

Eustace returned the papers to his pockets, and requested
his brother again to prepare to leave the Tower at once.

After taking leave of the Lieutenant, and feeing the warders,
the two brothers departed in a coach in which Eustace had
come to the Tower, and went to the lodgings of the latter in
Lowborn. Eustace furnished his brother with clothes until he
could procure some for himself, and gave him money liberally,
of which he seemed to have no stint. He wished his brother
to come with him to all the places of resort in the city, but
Johnny prudently declined. Indeed, the city was so quiet
and dull, that few places of amusement remained. The
theatres were entirely closed. Whitehall was sombre and
nearly empty, and the public walks were filled only with the
townspeople in staid and sober attire. The two brothers were
therefore reduced to each other's society, and it seemed as
though absence or a sense of danger united them with a
warmth of affection which they had seldom before known.

To John Inglesant, who had always been devotedly
attached to his brother, this display of affection was delightful,
cut off as he had been so long from all sympathy and
friendliness. Dressed in his brother's clothes, the likeness
which had once been so striking returned again, and as they
walked the streets people turned to look at them with surprise.
The brothers felt in their hearts old feelings and
thoughts returning, which had long been forgotten and had
passed away ; and to John Inglesant especially, always given to
half melancholy musings and brooding over the past, all his
happiest recollections seemed to concentrate themselves on
his brother, the last human relation that seemed left to him,
since he had, as he thought, lost the favour of all his friends,
relations, and acquaintances in the world. Possibly a sense
of a great misfortune made this sentiment more tender and
acute, for, as we shall see, there were some things in his
brother's position, and in the horoscope he had shown him,
which Inglesant did not like. At present, however, his whole
nature, so long crushed down and lacerated, seemed to expand

and heal itself in the light of his brother's love and person,
and to concentrate all its powers into one intense feeling, and
to lose its own identity in this passion of brotherly regard.

This feeling might also be increased by his own state of
health, which made him cling closer to any support His long
imprisonment, and the sudden change from his quiet cell to
all the bustle of the city life, affected his mind and brain painfully.
He was confused and excited among a crowd of
persons and objects to which he had been so long unaccustomed
; his brain and system had received a shock from which
he never entirely recovered, and for some time, at any rate, he
walked as one who is in a dream, rather than as a man engaged
in the active pursuits of life.

After two or three days Eustace told his brother one
morning that he was ready to go into the west, but before
starting he said he wished Johnny to accompany him to a
famous astrologer in Lambeth Marsh, to whom already he had
shown the horoscope, and who had appointed a meeting that
night to give his answer, and who had also promised to consulta
crystal, as an additional means of obtaining information of
the future.

Accordingly, late in the afternoon, they took a wherry at
the Temple Stairs, and were ferried over to Lambeth Marsha
wide extent of level ground between Southwark and the
Bishop's Palace, on which only a few straggling houses had
been built. The evening was dark and foggy, and a cold
wind swept across the marsh, making them wrap their short
cloaks closely about them. It was almost impossible to see
more than a yard or two before them, and they would probably
have found great difficulty in finding the wizard's house had
not a boy with a lantern met them a few paces from the river,
who inquired if they were seeking the astrologer. This was
the wizard's own boy, whom, with considerable worldly prudence
at any rate, he had despatched to find his clients and

bring them to his house. The boy brought them into a long
low room, with very little furniture in it, a small table at the
upper end, with a large chair behind it, and three or four high-backed
chairs placed along the wall. On the floor, in the
middle of the room, was a large double circle, but there were
no figures or signs of any kind about it. On the table was a
long thin rod. A lamp which hung from the roof over the
table cast a faint light about the room, and a brazier of lighted
coals stood in the chimney.

The astrologer soon entered the room with the horoscope
Eustace had left with him in his hand. He was a fine-looking
man, with a serious and lofty expression of face, dressed in a
black gown, with the square cap of a divine, and a fur hood
or tippet. He bowed courteously to the gentlemen, who
saluted him with great respect. His manner was coldest to
John Inglesant, whom he probably regarded with suspicion as
an amateur. He, however, acknowledged that Inglesant's
criticisms on the horoscope were correct, but pointed out to
him that in his own reading of it many of the aspects were
very adverse. John Inglesant knew this, though he had chosen
to conceal it from his brother. The astrologer then informed
them that he had drawn out a scheme of the heavens himself
at the moment when first consulted by Eustace, and that, in
quite different ways, and by very different aspects, much the
same result had been arrived at. " As, however," he went onto
say, " the whole question is to some extent vitiated by the
suspicion of foul play, and it will be impossible for any of us
to free our minds entirely from these suspicions, I do not
advise any farther inquiry; but I propose that you should
consult a consecrated beryl or crystal — a mode of inquiry
far more high and certain than astrology, so much so, indeed,
that I will seriously confess to you that I use the latter
but as the countenance and blind ; but this search in the
crystal is by the help of the blessed spirits, and is open only

to the pure from sin, and to men of piety, humility, and
charity."

As he said these words he produced from the folds of his
gown a large crystal or polished stone, set in a circle of gold,
supported by a silver stand. Round the circle were engraved
the names of angels. He placed this upon the table, and
continued, —

We must pray to God that He will vouchsafe us some
insight into this precious stone ; for it is a solemn and serious
matter upon which we are, second only to that of communication
with the angelical creatures themselves, which, indeed, is
vouchsafed to some, but only to those of the greatest piety, to
which we may not aspire. Therefore let us kneel down and
humbly pray to God."

They all knelt, and the adept, commencing with the Prayer-book
collect for the festival of St. Michael, recited several
other prayers, all for extreme and spotless purity of life.

He then rose, the two others continuing on their knees,
and struck a small bell, upon which the boy whom they had
before seen entered the room by a concealed door in the wainscot.
He was a pretty boy, with a fair and clean skin, and was
dressed in a surplice similar to those worn by choristers. He
took up a position by the crystal, and waited his master's
orders.

I have said," continued the adept, " that these visions
can be seen only by the pure, and by those who, by long and
intense looking into the spiritual world, have at last penetrated
somewhat into its gloom. I have found these mostly to be
plain and simple people, of an earnest faith, — country people,
grave-diggers, and those employed to shroud the dead, and
who are accustomed to think much upon objects connected
with death. This boy is the child of the sexton of Lambeth
Church, who is himself a godly man. Let us pray to God."

Upon this he knelt down again and remained for sometime

engaged in silent prayer. He then rose and directed the
boy to look into the crystal, saying, " One of these gentlemen
desires news of his wife."

The boy looked intently into the crystal for some moments,
and then said, speaking in a measured and low voice, —

I see a great room, in which there is a bed with rich
hangings ; pendant from the ceiling is a silver lamp. A tall
dark man, with long hair, and a dagger in his belt, is bending
over the bed with a cup in his hand."

"It is my wife's room," said Eustace in a whisper, " and it
is no doubt the Italian ; he is tall and dark."

The boy continued to look for some time into the crystal,
but said nothing ; then he turned to his master and said, " I
can see nothing ; some one more near to this gentleman must
look ; this other gentleman," he said suddenly, and turning to
John Inglesant, " if he looks will be able to see."

The astrologer started. " Ah !" he said, " why do you say
that, boy?"

I can tell who will see aught in the crystal, and who will
not," replied the boy ; " this gentleman will see."

The astrologer seemed surprised and sceptical, but he
made a sign to Inglesant to rise from his knees, and to take
his place by the crystal.

He did so, and looked steadily into it for some seconds,
then he shook his head.

I can see nothing," he said.

Nothing !" said the boy ; " can you see nothing?"

No. I see clouds and mist."

You have been engaged," said the boy, " in something
that was not good — something that was not true ; and it has
dimmed the crystal sight. Look steadily, and if it is as I
think, that your motive was not false, you will see more."

Inglesant looked again ; and in a moment or two gave a
start, saying, — " The mist is breaking ! I see ; — I see a large

room, with a chimney of carved stone, and a high window at
the end ; in the window and on the carved stone is the same
coat many times repeated — three running greyhounds proper,
on a field vert."

"I know the room," said Eustace; "it is the inn parlour
at Mintern, not six miles from Oulton. It was the manor of
the Linings before the wars, but is now an inn ; that was
their coat."

Do you see aught else ? " said the adept.
Inglesant gave a long look; then he stepped back, and
gazed at the astrologer, and from him to his brother, with a
faltering and ashy look.

I see a man's figure lie before the hearth, and the hearthstone
is stained, as if with blood Eustace, it is either you
or I ! "

Look again," said the adept eagerly, " look again ! "
I will look no more ! " said Inglesant, fiercely ; " this is
the work of a fiend, to lure men to madness or despair ! "

As he spoke, a blast of wind — sudden and strong — swept
through the room ; the lamp burnt dim ; and the fire in the
brazier went out. A deathly coldness filled the apartment,
and the floor and the walls seemed to heave and shake. A
loud whisper, or muffled cry, seemed to fill the air ; and a
terrible awe struck at the hearts of the young men. Seizing
the rod from the table, the adept assumed a commanding
attitude, and waved it to and fro in the air ; gradually the
wind ceased, the dread coldness abated, and the fire burned
again of its own accord. The adept gazed at Inglesant with
a stern and set look.

You are of a strange spirit, young sir," he said ; " pure in
heart enough to see things which many holy men have desired
in vain to see ; and yet so wild and rebellious as to anger the
blessed spirits with your self-will and perverse thoughts. You
will suffer fatal loss, both here and hereafter, if you learn not

to give up your own will, and your own fancies, before the
heavenly will and call."

Inglesant stared at the man in silence. His words seemed
to him to mean far more than perhaps he himself knew.
They seemed to come into his mind, softened with anxiety for
his brother, and shaken by these terrible events, with the light
of a revelation. Surely this was the true secret of his wasted
life, however strange might be the place and action which
revealed it to him. Whatever he might think afterwards of
this night, it might easily stand to him as an allegory of his
own spirit, set down before him in a figure. Doubtless he was
perverse and headstrong under the pressure of the Divine
Hand ; doubtless he had followed his own notions rather than
the voice of the inward monitor he professed to hear : henceforth,
surely, he would give himself up more entirely to the
heavenly voice.

Eustace appeared to have seen enough of the future, and
to be anxious to go. He left a purse of gold upon the
wizard's table ; and hurried his brother to take his leave.

Outside the air was perfectly still ; a thick motionless fog
hung over the marsh and the river ; not a breath of wind
stirred.

That was a strange wind that swept by as you refused to
look," said Eustace to his brother ; " do you really think the
spirits were near, and were incensed ? "

Inglesant did not reply ; he was thinking of another spirit
than that the wizard had evoked.

They made their way through the fog to Lambeth, and
took boat again to the Temple stairs.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE next morning, when the brothers awoke and spoke
to each other of the events of the night, Eustace did
not seem to have been much impressed by them ; he ridiculed
the astrologer, and made light of the visions in the crystal ; he,
however, acknowledged to his brother that it might be better
to avoid the inn parlour at Mintern, and said they might reach
Oulton by another route.

There is a road," he said, " after you leave Cern Abbas,
which turns off five or six miles before you come to Mintern ;
it is not much farther, but it is not so good a road, and not
much frequented. It will be quite good enough for us, however,
and will not delay us above an hour. But I own I feel
ashamed of taking it."

John Inglesant, however, encouraged him to do so ; and
towards middle day they left London on the Windsor Road.
Inglesant noticed, as they started, that his brother's favourite
servant was absent, and asked his brother where he was. He
replied that he had sent him forward early in the morning to
inform his wife of their coming.

I would not have let them know of your intention," said
Johnny.

Eustace shrugged his shoulders with a peculiar gesture,
saying in French, —

It is not convenient for me to come into my family unannounced.
I do not know what I might find going forward."
vol. 1. Q

Johnny thought that his brother had bought his fortune
rather dear ; but he said nothing more upon the subject.

They slept that night at Windsor, and hoped to have
reached Andover the next day ; but their servants' horses, and
those with the mails, were not equal to so long a distance,
and they slept at Basingstoke, not being able to get farther.
The weather was pleasant for the season and, to Inglesant
especially — so long confined within stone walls — the journey
was very agreeable. It reminded him of his ride up to
London with the Jesuit long ago when a boy, when everything
was new and delightful to him, and the future open and
promising. The way had then been enlivened and every
interest doubled by the conversation of his friend, who had
known how to extract interest and amusement from the most
trivial incidents ; but it was not less made pleasant now by
the society of his brother. A great change seemed to becoming
over Eustace. He was affectionate and serious. He
spoke much of past years, of their grandfather, and of the old
life at Westacre ; of his early Court life, before Johnny came
to London, and of the day when he came down to Westacre
with his father and the Jesuit, and saw his brother again. He
asked Johnny much about his own life, and listened attentively
to all Inglesant thought proper to tell him of his
religious inquiries. He asked about the Ferrara, and told
Inglesant some of the things that had been said at Court
about him and them. A sense of danger — even though it
made little impression upon him — seemed to have called forth
kindly feelings which had been latent before ; or perhaps some
foreboding sense hung over him, and — by a gracious Providence
— fitted and tuned his mind for an approaching fate.
Inglesant felt his heart drawn towards him with an intensity
which he had never felt before. The whole world seemed for
the time to be centred in this brother; and he looked forward
to life associated with him.

They slept at Andover j and the next day made a shorter
journey to Salisbury, where they slept again. The stately
cathedral was closed and melancholy-looking, and knowing no
one in the town, they passed the long evening alone in the inn.
The next morning early they set out. They halted at Cern
Abbas about one o'clock, and dined. Eustace made some
inquiries about the road he had mentioned to his brother, but
seemed more and more unwilling to take it, and it required all
Inglesant's persuasion to keep him to his promise. The people
at the inn seemed surprised that anyone should think of taking
it, and made out that the delay would be very great, and
the chance of missing the way altogether not a little. At this,
however, Eustace laughed, saying that he knew the country
very well. Indeed, his desire to show the truth of this assertion
rather assisted his brother's purpose, and they left Cern
Abbas with the full intention of taking the unusual route. The
country was thickly wooded, many parts of the ancient forest
remaining, and here and there rather hilly. In descending
one of these hills John Inglesant's horse cast a shoe, just as
they reached the point where the two roads diverged, the right
hand one of which they were to take. As it was impossible
for them to proceed with the horse as it was, Johnny proposed
sending it back with one of the servants to Cern Abbas, and
taking the man's horse instead, who could easily follow them.
As they were about to put in practice this scheme, however,
one of the men said there was a forge about a mile beyond, on
the road before them, where it would be easy to get the shoe
put on. Eustace immediately approved of this plan, and
Johnny was obliged at last reluctantly to yield. It seemed to
him as though the impending fate came nearer and nearer at
every step. The man proved himself to be an uncertain guide
as to distance, and it was fully two miles before they reached
the forge. When they reached it they found that a gentleman's
coach, large and unwieldy, had broken some portion of its

complicated machinery, and was taxing all the efforts of the
smith and his assistants to repair it. The gentlemen dismounted
and accosted the two ladies who had alighted from
the coach, and whom Eustace remembered to have met before
at Dorchester. The coach was soon mended, and the ladies
drove off; but by this time Eustace had grown impatient, and,
saying carelessly to his brother, "You will follow immediately,"
he mounted, and turned his horse's head still along the main
road, his men mounting also.

You are not going on that way," said Johnny ; " you said
we should turn back to the other road."

Oh, we cannot turn back now," said his brother ; "we
have come farther than I expected. We will not stop at Mintern,"
he added significantly.

And so saying, he rode away after the carriage, followed
by his men.

Inglesant looked after him anxiously, a heavy foreboding
filling his mind. He saw his brother mount the little hill
before the forge, between the bare branches of the trees on
either side of the road; then a slight turn of the way concealed
him, but, for a moment or two more, he could see glimpses of
the figures as the leafless boughs permitted, then, when he
could see even these no longer, he went back into the forge.
It was some ten minutes before the horse was ready, and then
Inglesant himself mounted, and rode off quickly after his
brother. He had felt all the day, and during the one preceding
it, a weariness and dulness of sense, the result, no doubt,
of fatigue acting upon his only partially recovered health, and
on a frame shattered by what he had gone through. As he
rode on, his brain became more and more confused, so that
for some moments together he was almost unconscious, and
only by an effort regained his sense of passing events. The
woods seemed to pass by him as in a dream, the thick winter
air to hang about him like the heavy drapery of a pall; whether

he was sleeping or waking he could scarcely tell. What added
to his distress was an abiding sense of crisis and danger to his
brother, which required him at that moment, above all others,
to exert a strength and a prescience of which he felt himself
becoming more and more incapable. He was continually
making violent efforts to retain his recollection of what was
passing, and of what it behoved him to do, — efforts which each
time became more and more painful, and of the futility of
which he became more and more despairingly conscious.
Words cannot describe the torture of such a condition as this.
At last he overtook some of his brother's servants with
the led horses, whom he scarcely recognized, so far were his
senses obscured. Their master had ridden on before with two
servants, they told him ; he would have to ride hard to overtake
them. He seemed eager, they said, to be at home. Inglesant
could scarcely sit his horse, much less expect to overtake his
brother — who was well mounted and an impetuous rider —
nevertheless he gave his horse the spur, and the animal, also a
good roadster, soon left the servants far behind. The confusion
of mind which he suffered increased more and more as he rode
along, and the events of his past life came up before his eyes
as clearly and palpably as the objects through which he was
riding, so that he could not distinguish the real from the
imaginary, the present from the past, which added extremely
to his distress. He stood again amid the confusion and carnage
of Naseby field ; once more he saw the throng of heads,
and heard that terrible cry that had welcomed him to the
scaffold ; again he looked into the fatal crystal, and strange
visions and ghostly shapes of death and corruption came out
from it, and walked to and fro along the hedgerows and across
the road before him, making terrible the familiar English fields;
a tolling of the passing bell rang continually in his ear, and his
horse's footfalls sounded strange and funereal to his diseased
sense. He knew nothing of the road, nor of what happened

as he rode along, nor what people he passed ; but he missed
the direct turning, and reached Mintern at last by another lane
which led him some distance round. The servants with the
led horses were there before him, standing before the inn door,
and other strange servants in his brother's liveries, and several
horses stood about.

The old manor that was now an inn stood close to the
Church, at the opening of the village, with a little green before
it and a wall, in the centre of which was a pair of gates flanked
with pillars. The iron gates were closed, but the wall had been
thrown down for some yards on either side, thus giving ample
access to the house within. It was a handsome house with a
large high window over the porch, in the upper panes of which
Inglesant could see coats of arms. Amid the tracery of the
iron gates running greyhounds were interlaced.

John Inglesant saw all this as in a dream, and he saw
besides creatures that were not real walking among the living
men ; haggard figures in long robes, and others beneath the
grave shrouds, ghostly phantoms of his disordered brain. He
made a desperate effort for the hundredth time to clear his
sense of these terrible distracting sights, of this death of the
brain that disabled all his faculties, and for the hundredth time
in vain. It appeared to him — whether it was a vision or a
reality, he did not know — that one of his brother's servants
came to his horse's side, and told him something of a gentleman
of his lady's, a foreign physician, having met his master
purposely, and that they were within together. Inglesant dismounted
mechanically and entered the hotel, telling the
servant to come with him. He had some dim feeling of
dragging his brother away from a great danger, and a desire of
gathering about him, if he could but distinguish them, such as
would assist him and were of human flesh and blood. Inside
the porch, and in the narrow hall beyond, the place swarmed
with these distracting visions walking to and fro ; the staircase

at the farther end was crowded with them going up and down.
He saw, as he thought, his brother, attended by a dark, handsome
man, in the gown of a physician, come down the stairs
to meet him, but when they came nearer they dissolved themselves
and vanished into air.

The host came to meet him, saying that his brother and
the foreign gentleman were upstairs in the parlour; he had
thought they were having some words a while ago, but they
were quiet now. The whole house, Inglesant thought, was
deadly quiet, though seemingly to him so full of life. To
what terrible deed were all these strange witnesses and
assistants summoned? He told the host to follow him, as he
had told the man before j and he did so, supposing he meant
to order something. They went up the two nights of the oak
stairs, and entered the room over the hall and porch. It was
a large and narrow room, and was seemingly empty. Opposite
them, in the high window, and on the great carved
chimney to the right, running greyhounds coursed each other,
as it seemed to Inglesant, round the room. A long table hid
the hearth as they came in. With a fatal certainty, as if
mechanically, Inglesant walked round it towards the fire, the
others with him ; there they stopped — sudden and still. On
the white hearthstone — his hair and clothes steeped in blood
lay Eustace Inglesant, the Italian's stiletto in his heart.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE sight of his brother's corpse seemed to steady
Inglesant's nerves, and clear his brain. He turned
to the host, and said, "What way can the murderer have
escaped ? "

The host shook his head ; he was incapable of speech, or
even thought. The three men stood looking at each other
without a word. Then Inglesant knelt down by the body,
and raised the head ; there was no doubt that life was extinct
indeed, the body must have been nearly drained of blood ;
the fine line of steel had done its work fully, and with no loss
of time. Inglesant rose from the ground ; his sight, his recollection,
his senses were speedily failing him ; nothing kept
him conscious but the terrible shock acting with galvanic
effect upon his frame. The back of the premises was
searched, and mounted messengers were sent to the neighbouring
towns and to the cross roads, and notice sent to the
nearest Justice of the Peace. The country rose in great numbers,
and came pouring in to Mintern before the early evening
set in. The body was deposited on the long table in the
parlour where the deed was committed ; and more than one
Justice examined the room that afternoon. Inglesant saw
that the guard was set, and proper care taken ; and then he
mounted to ride to Oulton. He was not fit to ride ; but to
stay in the house all night was impossible — to lie down equally
so. In the night air he rode to Oulton, through the long wild
chase, by the pools of water — from which the flocks of birds

rose startled as he passed, and by the herds of deer. The
ride settled his nerves, and when he reached the house he
was still master of himself. The news had preceded him ;
Lady Cardiff was said to be in a paroxysm of grief; but, as
no one had seen her for days except her immediate servants,
Inglesant did not attempt to obtain an interview with her.
He was received by Dr. More and the superior servants, and
sat down to supper. Not a word was spoken during that
sombre meal except by the doctor, who pressed Inglesant to
eat and drink, and offered to introduce him to Van Helmont,
who was not present. The doctor said grace after supper ;
but when he had done, one of the female servants, a
Quakeress, stood up, and spoke some words recommending
patience and a feeling after God, if perchance He might be
found to be present, and a help in such a terrible need. The
singularity of this proceeding roused Inglesant from the
lethargy in which he was, and the words seemed to strike upon
his heart with a familiar and not uncongenial sense. The
mystical doctrine which he had studied was not unlike much
that he would hear from Quaker lips. He went to his room
after supper, intending to rise early next morning ; but before
daybreak he was delirious and in a high fever, and Van
Helmont was sent for to his room, and bled him freely, and
administered cordials and narcotic draughts. The skilful
treatment caused him to sleep quietly for many hours ; and
when he awoke, though prostrate with weakness, he was free
from fever, and his brain was calm and clear.

From inquiries which he made, it appeared that the
Italian had been making preparations for leaving for several
days, probably doubting the success of his attempt to win over
Eustace to tolerate his continued stay at Oulton. Inglesant
was told that it was supposed that he had not intended to
murder his brother; but that Eustace had probably threatened
him, and that in the heat of contention the blow was

struck. The Italian had destroyed all his papers, and everything
that could give any clue to his conduct or history ; but
he had left a very bad reputation behind him, independently
of his last murderous act ; and his influence with Lady Cardiff
was attributed to witchcraft.

The funeral of Eustace Inglesant took place a few days
after, at the Church on the borders of the chase. Snow had
fallen in the meanwhile; and the train of black mourners
passed over the waste of white that covered the park. A
multitude of people filled the churchyard, and crowded round
the outside of the hall. Lady Cardiff, by lavish almsgiving
and other vagaries, had always attracted a number of vagrant
and masterless people to Oulton ; and there were always some
encampments of such people in the chase. She particularly
favoured mountebanks and quacks of all kinds, and numbers
of them were present at the funeral. Some few of the country
gentry attended ; but Eustace being almost unknown in the
county, and his wife by no means popular, many who otherwise
would have been present were not so. The Puritan
authorities of the neighbourhood suspected Lady Cardiff's
establishment as a haunt of recusants. Dr. More was a known
Royalist; Eustace had been only restrained from active exertion
on the same side by his love of pleasure and his wife's
prudence; and the Puritans regarded the Quakers with no
favour. The herd of idle and vicious people, as the authorities
considered them, who frequented Oulton, was an abomination
in their eyes ; and understanding that a number of them
would be at the funeral, two or three Puritan magistrates, with
armed servants and constables, assembled to keep order, as
they said ; but, as it proved, to provoke a riot. To make
matters worse, Dr. More began to read the Prayer Book
service, which was forbidden by law. The Justices interposed;
the mob of mountebanks, and players, and idle people sided
with the Church party, which had always given them a friendly

toleration, and commenced an assault upon the constables
and Justices' servants, driving them from the grave side with a
storm of snowballs. The funeral was completed with great
haste, and the mourning party returned to the house, whither
the mob also resorted, and were regaled with provisions of all
kinds during the afternoon, being with difficulty induced to
disperse at night.

Inglesant took no part in this riot, being indeed still too
weak and ill to exert himself at all. He expected to be
arrested and sent back to London ; but the authorities did not
take much notice of the riot, contenting themselves with dispersing
the people, and seeing that most of them left the
neighbourhood, which they were induced to do by being set in
the village stocks, and otherwise imprisoned and intimidated.

Lady Cardiff had sent messages to Inglesant every day,
expressing her interest in him, and she now sent Van Helmont
to him with the information that a large sum of money, which
she had assigned to his brother, would now be his. This sum,
which amounted to several thousand pounds, she was ready to
pay over to Inglesant whenever he might desire it. She hoped
he would remain at Oulton till his health was more established,
but she hinted that she thought it was for his own interest
that neither his stay there, nor indeed in England, should be
unnecessarily prolonged. Meanwhile, she recommended him
to Dr. More and to the Quakers; the teaching which he would
derive from both sources, she assured him, would be much to
his benefit. Inglesant returned a courteous message expressive
of his obligation for her extraordinary generosity, and assuring
her that he should endeavour to benefit by whatever her inmates
might communicate to him. He informed her that he
intended, as soon as his strength was sufficiently established, to
go to Paris, where the only friend he had left was, and that any
sum of money she was so generous as to afford him might be
transmitted to the merchants there. He had some thoughts,

he said, of going to Gidding, but had learnt that soon after the
execution of the King, the house had been attacked by a mob
of soldiers and others, and that the family, who had timely
warning of their intention, had left the neighbourhood and
were dispersed. He concluded by hoping that before he left
he might be allowed to thank his benefactress in person.

Some weeks passed over at Oulton with great tranquillity,
and Inglesant regained his strength and calmness of mind.
There was a large and valuable library in the house, and the
society of Dr. More was pleasant to Inglesant, though in many
ways they were far from congenial ; indeed, there was more in
Van Helmont's character and tastes that suited his tone of
mind. During these weeks, however, Inglesant began to
adapt himself to a course of religious life from which he never
altogether departed, and which, after some doubts and many
attempts on the part of others to divert him from it, he followed
to the end of his life. He was no doubt strengthened at the
beginning of this course by the conversation of Dr. More and
also of the Quakers. These latter, whom Inglesant had been
led to regard with aversion, he found harmless and sober
people, whose blameless lives, and the elevated mysticism of
their conversation, commended them to him.

The transient calm of this existence was, however, broken
by one absorbing idea — the desire of being revenged upon his
brother's murderer, of tracking the Italian's path, and bringing
him to some terrible justice. It was this that induced him to
seek the Jesuit, whom at one time he had been inclined to shun.
No one, he considered, would have it in his power, from the
innumerable agents in every country with whom he had connection,
to assist him in his search so much as the Jesuit; and
he believed that he had deserved as much at his master's hand.
But it was not natural that, at any rate at once, he should
suppose that such a motive as this would be any hindrance to

him in a religious life, and for a long time he was unconscious
of any such idea.

It will be as well here to endeavour to understand something
of the peculiar form which Christianity had assumed in
Inglesant's mind — a form which was not peculiar to himself,
but which he possessed in common with most in that day
whose training had been more or less similar to his own. It
was similar in many respects to that which prevails in the
present day in most Roman Catholic countries, and may be
described as Christianity without the Bible. It is doubtful
whether, except perhaps once or twice in College Chapel, he
had ever read a chapter of the Bible himself in his life. Certainly
he never possessed a Bible himself; of its contents,
excepting those portions which are read in Church and those
contained in the Prayer Book, he was profoundly ignorant
It was not included in the course of studies set him by the
Jesuit Of the Protestant doctrines of justification by faith
and by the blood of Christ, and of the Calvinistic ones of predestination
and assurance, he was only acquainted in a vague
and general way, as he might have heard mention of them in
idle talk, mostly in contempt and dislike. It is true the Laudian
School in the Church, in which he had been brought upheld
doctrines which, in outward terms, might seem to bear
some affinity with some, if not all of these ; but they were in
reality very different The Laudian School held, indeed, that
the sacrifice of Christ's blood had removed the guilt of sin,
and that by that, and that only, was salvation secured of men ;
but they held that this had been accomplished on the Cross,
once for all, independently of anything that man could do or
leave undone. The very slightest recognition, on the part of
man, of this Divine sacrifice, the very least submission to the
Church ordinances, combined with freedom from outward sin,
was sufficient to secure salvation to the baptized ; and indeed
the Church regarded with leniency and hope even the wild and

reprobate. It is true that the Laudian press teemed with holy
works, setting the highest of pure standards before its readers,
and exhorting to the following of a holy life ; but this life was
looked upon rather as a spiritual luxury and privilege, to which
high and refined natures might well endeavour to attain, rather
than as absolutely necessary to salvation. With this view the
Church regarded human error with tolerance, and amusements
and enjoyments with approbation, and as deserving the highest
sanctions of religion. Inglesant's Christianity, therefore, was
ignorant of doctrine and dogma of almost every kind, and concentrated
itself altogether on what may be called the Idea of
Christ, that is, a lively conception of and attraction to the
person of the Saviour. This idea, — which comes to men in different
ways, and which came to Inglesant for the first time in
the sacrament at Gidding, being, I should suppose, a purely
intellectual one, — would no doubt be inefficient and transitory,
were it not for the unique and mysterious power of attraction
which it undoubtedly possesses. In the pursuit of this idea
he received little assistance either from Dr. More. The school
to which the doctor belonged, — the Christian Platonistss, — had
no tendency to that exclusive worship of the person of Jesus,
which, in some religious schools, has almost superseded the
worship of God. This he had received from the Jesuits and
the mystical books of Catholic devotion which had had so great
an influence over him. The Jesuits, with all their faults, held
fast by the motive of their founder, and the worship of Jesus
was by them carried to its fullest extent. Dr. More's theology
was more that of a philosophical Deism, into which the person
and attributes of Christ entered as a part of an universal
scheme, in which the universe, mankind, the all-pervading
Spirit of God, and the objects of thought and sense, played
distinct and conspicuous parts.

One fine and warm day in the early spring, Inglesant and
the doctor were walking in the garden at the side of the house

bordering on the chase and park. The wide expanse of grassy
upland stretched before them ; overhead, the arch of heaven,
chequered by the white clouds, was full of life and light and
motion ; across the water of the lakes the Church bells, rung
for amusement by the village lads, came to the ear softened
and yet enriched in tone ; the spring air, fanned by a fresh
breeze, refreshed the spirits and the sense. The doctor
began, as upon a favourite theme, to speak of his great sense
of the power and benefit of the fresh air.

I would always," he said, " be ' sub dio] if it were possible.
Is there anything more delicious to the touch than the
soft, cool air playing 'on our heated temples, recruiting and
refrigerating the spirits and the blood ? I can read, discourse,
or think nowhere as well as in some arbour, where the cool
air rustles through the moving leaves ; and what a rapture of
mind does such a scene as this always inspire within me ! To
a free and divine spirit how lovely, how magnificent is this
state for the soul of man to be in, when, the life of God actuating
her, she travels through heaven and earth, and unites
with, and after a sort feels herself the life and soul of this
whole world, even as God? This indeed is to become
Deform — not by imagination, but by union of life. God doth
not ride me whither I know not, but discourse with me as a
friend, and speaks to me in such a dialect as I can understand
fully, — namely, the outward world of His creatures \ so that I
am in fact ' Incola coeli in terra, 1 an inhabitant of paradise
and heaven upon earth ; and I may soberly confess that sometimes,
walking abroad after my studies, I have been almost
mad with pleasure, — the effect of nature upon my soul having
been inexpressibly ravishing, and beyond what I can convey
to you."

Inglesant said that such a state of mind was most blessed,
and much to be desired ; but that few could hope to attain toit,
and to many it would seem a fantastic enthusiasm.

No," said the doctor, " I am not out of my wits, as some
may fondly interpret me, in this divine freedom ; but the love
of God compelled me; and though you yourself know the
extent of fancy, when phantoms seem real external objects,
yet here the principle of my opponents, the Quakers (who, it
may be, are nearer to the purity of Christianity — for the life
and power of it — than many others), is the most safe and
reasonable, — to keep close to the Light within a man."

You agree with the Quakers, then, in some points ? "
said Inglesant.

They have indeed many excellent points, and very nobly
Christian, which I wish they would disencumber from such
things as make them seem so uncouth and ridiculous ; but the
reason our lady has taken so to them as to change some of
her servants for Quakers, and to design to change more, is
that they prove lovers of quiet and retirement, and they fit
the circumstances that she is in, that cannot endure any noise,
better than others; for the weight of her affliction lies so
heavy upon her, that it is incredible how very seldom she can
endure any one in her chamber, and she finds them so still,
quiet, and serious, that their company is very acceptable to
her ; and she is refreshed by the accounts of their trials and
consolations, and their patience and support under great distress.
Baron Van Helmont frequents their meetings."

What do you think of the Baron ? "

I think he knows as little of himself, truly and really, as
one who had never seen him in his life."

Inglesant did not try to penetrate into this oracular
response ; but said, —

Have you seen Mr. Fox, the famous Quaker ? "

Yes ; I saw him once," replied the doctor ; " and in conversation
with him I felt myself as it were turned into brass,
so much did his spirit and perversity oppress mine."

There are some men," the doctor went on, after a pause

but Inglesant did not know of whom he was thinking —
that by a divine sort of fate are virtuous and good, and this
to a very great and heroical degree ; and come into the world
rather for the good of others, and by a divine force, than
through their own proper fault, or any immediate or necessary
congruity of their natures. All which is agreeable to that
opinion of Plato, that some descend hither to declare the
being and nature of the gods, and for the greater health,
purity, and perfection of this lower world. I would fain
believe, Mr. Inglesant," he continued, to the other's great surprise,
" that you are one of those. Ever since I first saw you
I have had some thought of this ; and the more I see of you
the more I hope and believe that some such work as this is
reserved for you. You have, what is very happy for you,
what I call an ethereal sort of body — to use the Pythagoras
phrase — even in this life, a mighty purity and plenty of the
animal spirits, which you may keep lucid by that conduct and
piety by which you may govern yourself. And this makes it
all the more incumbent on you to have a great care to keep
in order this uniform vehicle of the soul, as the Platonistss
call it ; for there is a sanctity of body which the sensually
minded do not so much as dream of. And this divine body
should be cultivated as well as the divine life ; for by how
much any person partakes more of righteousness and virtue,
he hath also a greater measure of this divine body or celestial
matter within himself; he throws off the baser affections of
the earthly body, and replenishes his inner man with so much
larger draughts of ethereal or celestial matter ; and to incite
you still more to this effort, you have only to consider that
the oracle of God is not to be heard but in His holy temple,
that is to say, in a good and holy man, thoroughly sanctified
in spirit, soul, and body."

vol. 1.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SHORTLY after the conversation recorded in the previous
chapter, Inglesant, who appeared completely restored
to health, — thanks to the Baron Van Helmont and to rest of
body, — left Oulton, and, without going to London, went to
Rye, and sailed thence to France, where he arrived about the
middle of May 1651. He had taken a passage in a vessel
sailing to Dieppe, and from thence he posted to Paris, this
route being thought much safer than the one through Calais,
which was much infested by robbers.

He found Paris full of the fugitive Royalists in a state of
distress and destitution, which was so great, that on the Queen
of England's going to St. Germain's on one occasion, her
creditors threatened to arrest her coach. The young King
Charles was in Scotland, previous to his march into England,
which terminated in the battle of Worcester. Inglesant was
well received by the Royalists to whom he made himself
known on his arrival. The Glamorgan negotiations were by
this time pretty well understood among the Royalists, and
Inglesant's conduct fairly well appreciated. He had the reputation
of being a useful and trustworthy agent, and as such
was well received by the heads of the party. He presented
himself at the Louvre, where the Queen was, who received
him graciously, and expressed a wish that he would remain in
Paris, as she had been speaking not many days ago with
Father St. Clare concerning him. Inglesant inquired where
the Jesuit was, and was told, at St. Germain's with the French

Court, and that he would be in Paris again shortly. After
leaving the Queen, Inglesant applied to the merchants with
whom his money was to have been lodged ; but found that by
some misunderstanding a much smaller sum had arrived than
he had expected. Such as it was, however, he was able from it
to make advances to the Royalist gentlemen, many of whom of
the highest rank were in absolute distress; and he even advanced
a considerable sum indirectly to the Queen, and, through the
Duke of Ormond, to the young Duke of Gloucester.

It is not necessary to enter into any details with regard to
the state of France or the French Court at that time. The
Court had been obliged to leave Paris some time before, owing
to the violence of the populace, and was at present much embarrassed
from the same cause. It was therefore quite unable
to afford any help to the distressed fugitives from England,
had it wished to do so, and even the Queen Henrietta, — a
daughter of France, — could scarcely obtain assistance, and was
reduced to the greatest pecuniary distress. The Duke of
Ormond parted with his last jewel to procure money for the
use of the Duke of Gloucester, whose guardian he was, and
the inferior Royalists were reduced to still greater necessities.
No sooner, therefore, was it known that Inglesant had means
at his disposal, than he became once more a person of the
greatest consequence, and every one sought him out, or, if not
before acquainted with him, desired an introduction. He
frequented the Chapel of Sir Richard Browne, who had been
ambassador from Charles the First, and still retained his
privileges, his chapel, and his household, being accredited
from the young fugitive King to the French Court. This
was the only Anglican place of worship in Paris, or indeed at
that time, perhaps, in the world. Ordinations were performed
there, and it was frequented by the King and the two young
Princes, the Duke of York and the Duke of Gloucester, and
by all the Royalist fugitives then in Paris.

Inglesant was the more welcome, as many of the Royalist
gentlemen who had any money at all, refused to stay in Paris,
where there were so many claims upon them, but went on to
other countries, especially Italy. He found many of these
gentlemen in a very excited state, owing to the efforts of the
Queen Mother to discourage the English Church, and to win
over perverts to Romanism. The King and the Duke, it is
true, received the sacrament in the Ambassador's Chapel, partaking
of it together before the other communicants, Lord
Biron, Inglesant's old friend, and Lord Wilmot, holding a
white cloth before the two Princes; but the Queen Mother
was making every effort to pervert the young Duke of Gloucester,
and throwing all the weight of her influence and
patronage on the side of the Papists. Several of the maids of
honour had been discharged shortly before Inglesant's arrival
in Paris, for refusing to conform to the Romish Mass. Dr.
Cousin, the Dean of Peterborough, a profound Ritualist, but at
the same time devoted to the Anglican Church, had preached
a sermon in the Chapel comforting and supporting these
ladies. Inglesant being with the Queen at the Palais Royal,
one morning, as she was going to her private mass, was commanded
to accompany her ; and upon his readily complying,
the Queen afterwards spoke to him on the subject of religion,
inquiring why he, who had so long been so closely connected
with the Catholic Church, did not become one of its members.
Inglesant pleaded that the Jesuit, Father St. Clare, had
discouraged him from joining the Papists, as not convenient in
the position in which he had been placed. The Queen said
that the reasons which actuated the Father did not any longer
exist, but that she would wait till she could take his advice j
in the meantime requesting Inglesant to attend the Romish
services as much as possible, which he promised to do. As a
matter of choice, he preferred the English communion to the
mass, but he regarded both as means of sacramental grace,

and endeavoured at low mass to bring his mind into the same
devout stillness and condition of adoration as at a communion.
It would appear that about this time he must have been formally
received into the Romish Church, for he confessed and
received the sacrament at low mass ; but no mention of the
ceremony occurs, and it is possible that the priests received
instructions respecting him, while there is clear proof that he
attended the services at the Ambassador's Chapel, and once
at any rate partook of the sacrament there.

Here he met with Mr. Hobbes, who expressed himself
pleased to see him, and entered into long discourses with him
respecting the Glamorgan negotiations and the late King's
policy generally, — discourses which were very instructive to
Inglesant, though he felt a greater repugnance to the man
than when he formerly met him in London. The religious
thoughts which had filled Inglesant's mind at Oulton were
far from forgotten, and when he arrived in Paris, his first feeling
had been one of dissatisfaction at finding himself at once
involved again in political intrigue ; but his affection for the
Jesuit, apart from his desire to discover the Italian by his
means, made him desire to meet him ; and he continued in
Paris, waiting with this intention, when an event occurred
which altogether diverted his thoughts.

He spent his time in many ways, — partly in acts of religion,
partly in studies, frequenting several lectures, both in letters
and in science, such as Mons. Rebus's course of chemistry.
He also frequented the tennis court in the Rue Verdelet,
where the King of England, and the princes and nobles, both
of that country and of France, amused themselves. He had
been at this latter place one morning, and something having
happened to prevent the gentleman who had arranged to play
the match from appearing, Inglesant, who was a good tennis
player, had been requested to take his place against Mons.
Saucers, the great French player. There was a large and

brilliant attendance to watch the play, and Inglesant exerted
himself to the utmost, so much so, that he earned the applause
and thanks of the company for the brilliant match played
before them. Having at last been beaten, which occurred
probably when the great player considered he had afforded
sufficient amusement to the spectators, Inglesant turned to
leave the court, having resumed his dress and sword, when
he was accosted by an English nobleman whom he very
slightly knew; who, no doubt, influenced by the applause and
attention which Inglesant had excited, asked him to dine with
him at a neighbouring place of entertainment. After dinner
the gentleman told Inglesant that he was in the habit, together
with many other English who wished to perfect their knowledge
of French, of resorting to one or other of the convents
of Paris, to talk with the ancient sisters, whose business it was
to receive strangers, and had several such acquaintances with
whom he might " chat at the grates, for the nuns speak a
quaint dialect, and have besides most commonly all the news
that passes, which they are ready to discourse upon as long as
you choose to listen, whereby you gain a greater knowledge
of the most correct and refined manner of speaking of all
manner of common and trifling events than you could otherwise
gain." He said that he had received a parcel of English
gloves and knives from England the day before, some of
which he intended that afternoon taking to one of his " devote
" (as they call a friend in a convent, he said, in Spain),
and would take Inglesant with him if the latter wished to
come. Inglesant willingly consented, and they went to a

convent of the in the Rue des Terres Fortes. They

found the ancient nun — a little courtly old lady — as amusing
and pleasant as they expected; and she was on her part
apparently equally pleased with Lord Cheney's presents, and
with Inglesant's courteous discourse and good French. She
invited Inglesant to visit her again, but the next day he

received a message which was brought by a servant of the
convent, who had found his lodgings with some difficulty
through Lord Cheney, requesting him to come to the convent
at once. It lay in a retired and rather remote part of the
city, and but for his friend's introduction he would never have
visited it. Thinking the message somewhat strange, he complied
with the request, and in the afternoon found himself
again in the convent parlour. The nun came immediately to
the grate.

"Ah, monsieur," she said, "I am glad that you are come.
You. think it strange, doubtless, that I should send for you so
soon ; but I spoke of you last night to an inmate of this house,
who is a compatriot of yours, and who, I am sorry to say, is
very ill, — nay, I fear at the point of death, — and she told me
she had known you very well — ah, very well indeed — in times
past ; and she entreated me to send to you if I could find out
your residence. I only knew of you through Milord Chine,
but I sent to him."

What is this lady's name, madame ? " said Inglesant, who,
even then, did not guess who it was.

Ah, her name," said the nun ; " her name is College —
Mademoiselle Marie College."

She had the door in the grate opened for Inglesant, and
took him through the house, and past a court planted with
trees, to a small and quiet room overlooking the distant woodlands.
There, upon a little bed — her face white, her hands
and form wasted to a shadow, only her wonderful eyes the
same as ever — lay Mary Collet, her face lighting up and her
weak hands trembling as he came in. On his knees by the
bedside, his face buried in his hands, her white fingers playing
over his hair, Inglesant could not speak, dare not even lookup.
The old nun looked on kindly for some few minutes,
and then left them.

Mary was the first to speak, and as she spoke, Inglesant

raised his head and fixed his eyes on hers, keeping down the
torrent of grief that all but mastered him as he might.

She spoke to him of her joy at seeing him — she so lonely
and lost in a foreign land, separated from all her friends and
family, — not knowing indeed where they were ; of the suffering
and hardships she had passed through since they had left
Gidding — hardships which had caused the fever of which she
lay dying as she spoke. She had come to Paris after parting
from her uncle in Brittany, where they had suffered much deprivation
with the Lady Blunt, and had been received into
this convent, where she had meant to take the veil ; but the
fever grew upon her, and the physicians at last gave her no
hope of recovery. There she had lain day after day, tended
by the kind nuns with every care, yet growing weaker and
more weary — longing for some voice or face of her own
country or of former days. While she had been well enough
to listen, the nuns had told her all the little scraps of news
relating to her own countrymen and to the Queen which had
reached them ; but Inglesant's arrival was not likely to be
among these, and Mary had heard nothing of his being in
Paris till the night before, when the kindly old nun, finding
her a little better than usual, had thought to amuse her by
speaking of the pleasant young Englishman who spoke French
so well, and whose half foreign name she could easily remember,
and who, Lord Cheney had told her, had been one of the
most faithful servants of the poor murdered King.

The start of the dying girl before her, her flushed face as
she raised herself in bed and threw herself into her friend's
arms, entreating her that this old friend, the dearest friend she
had ever known — ah ! dearer now than ever — might be sent
for at once while she had life and strength to speak to him,
showed the nun that this was yet again a reacting of that old
story that never tires a woman's heart. The nuns were not
strict — far from it — and, even had Mary already taken the veil,

the sisters would have thought little blame of her even for
remembering that once she dreamt of another bridegroom than
the heavenly Spouse. The nun had promised to send early in
the morning to Lord Cheney, who, no doubt, knew the abode
of his friend ; and Mary, as she finished telling all this in her
low and weak speech, lay still and quiet, looking upon her
friend almost with as calm and peaceful a glance of her
absorbing eyes as when she had looked at him in the garden
parlour at Gidding years ago. He himself said little ; it was
not his words she wanted, could he have spoken them. That
he was there by her, looking up in her face, holding her hand,
was quite enough. At last she said, —

"And that mission to the Papist murderers, Johnny, you
did not wish to bring them into England of your own accord
or only as a plot of the Jesuits? Surely you were but the
servant of one whom you could not discover."

I had the King's own commission for all I did, for every
word I said," said Inglesant eagerly — " a commission written
by himself, and signed in my presence, which he gave me
himself. That was the paper the Lord Biron would not burn."
I knew it must be so, Johnny • my uncle told me it must
be so. It seems to me you have served a hard master, though
you do not complain. We heard about the scaffold at Charing
Cross. Will you serve your heavenly Master as well as
you have served your King?"

I desire to serve Him, am seeking to serve Him even now,
but I do not find the way. Tell me how I can serve Him,
Mary, and I swear to you I will do whatever you shall say."

He must teach you, Johnny, not I. I doubt not that
you follow Him now, will serve Him hereafter much better
than I could ever show you — could ever do myself. Whatever
men may think of the path you have already chosen, no
one can say you have not walked in it steadily to the end.
Only walk in this way as steadily, Johnny, — only follow your

heart as unflinchingly, when it points you to Him. I will do
nothing night and day while I live, Johnny, but pray to Jesus
that He may lead you to Himself."

The old familiar glamour that shed such a holy radiance
on the woods and fields of Gidding, now, to Inglesant's senses,
filled the little convent room. The light of heaven that
entered the open window with the perfume of the hawthorn,
was lost in the diviner radiance that shone from this girl's face
into the depths of his being, and bathed the place where she
was in light. His heart ceased to beat, and he lay, as in a
trance, to behold the glory of God.

CHAPTER XIX.

INGLESANT was present at the funeral in the cemetery of
the convent, and caused a white marble cross to be set
over the grave. He remained in his lodgings several days,
melancholy and alone. His whole nature was shaken to the
foundation, and life was made more holy and solemn to him
than ever before. The burden of worldly matters became intolerable,
and the coil that had been about his life so long grew
more oppressive till it seemed to stifle his soul. He desired to
listen to the Divine Voice, but the voice seemed silent, or to
speak only the language of worldly plans and schemes. He
desired to live a life of holiness, but the only life that seemed
possible to him was one of business and intrigue. What was
this life of holiness that men ought to lead ? Could it be followed
in the world ? Or must he retire to some monastic solitude
to cultivate it ; and was it certain that it would nourish
even there ? It seemed more and more impossible for him to
find it ; he was repulsed and turned back upon his worldly life
at every attempt he made. He almost resolved to give up the
Jesuit, and to seek some more spiritual guide. He remembered
Cressy, who had become a Romanist, and a Benedictine
monk of the Monastery at Douay, and was at that moment in
Paris.

When Inglesant had been last in Oxford, the secession of
Hugh Pauline Cressy, as he had been named at the font in
Wakefield Church, — Serenus de Cressy, as he called himself in
religion, — had created a painful and disturbed impression. A

Fellow of Merton, the chaplain and friend of Lord Strafford,
and afterwards of Lord Falkland, a quick and accurate disputant,
a fine and persuasive preacher, a man of sweet and
attractive nature, and of natural and acquired refinement, — he
was one of the leaders of the highest thought and culture of
the University. When it was known, therefore, that this man,
so admired and beloved, had seceded to Popery, the interest
and excitement were very great, and one of Archbishop Usher's
friends writes to him in pathetic words of the loss of this bright
ornament of the Church, and of the danger to others which
his example might cause.

He was at present in Paris, where the conjuncture of
religious affairs was very exciting. There was much in the
discussions which were going on, singularly fitted to Inglesant's
state of mind, and in some degree conducive to it. The
Jesuits, both in Rome and Paris, were occupied, as they had
been for several years, in that great controversy with the followers
of Jansenist, which, a few years afterwards, culminated
in those discussions and that condemnation in the Sorbonne
so graphically described by Pascal. We have only to do with
it as it affected Inglesant, and it is therefore not necessary to
inquire what were the real reasons which caused the Jesuits
to oppose the Jansenistss. The point at which the controversy
had arrived, when Inglesant was in Paris, was one which
touched closely upon the topics most interesting to his heart.
This was the doctrine of sufficient grace. The Jesuits, on this
as in all other matters, had taken that side which is undoubtedly
most pleasing to the frailty of the human heart, — an
invariable policy, to which they owed their supremacy over the
popular mind.

When the faithful came to the theologians to inquire what
was the true state of human nature since its corruption, they
received St. Augustine's answer, confirmed by St. Bernard and
St. Thomas Aquinas, and finally adopted by the Jansenistss, —

That human nature has no more sufficient grace than God is
pleased to bestow upon it, and that fresh efficacious grace must
constantly be given by God, which grace God does not give
to all, and without which no man can be saved." In opposition
to this, the Jesuits, about the time of the Reformation, came
forward with what was called a new doctrine, — that sufficient
grace is given to all men, as men, but so far compliant with
free-will that this latter makes the former efficacious or inefficacious
at its choice, without any new supply from God.
The Jansenistss retorted that this doctrine rendered unnecessary
the efficacious grace of Jesus Christ ; but that this does
not follow is plain, for this efficacious grace of God that is given
to all men once for all, may be owing to the sacrifice of Christ.
To many natures this universal gracious beneficent doctrine
of all-pervading grace, which includes all mankind, was much
more pleasing than the doctrine of the necessity of special grace,
involving spiritual assumption in those who possess it or say
they do, and bitter uncertainty and depression in humble, self-doubting,
and thoughtful minds. It resembled also the doctrines
of the Laudian School, in which Inglesant had been
brought up. So attractive indeed was it, that the Benedictines
were compelled to profess it, and to pretend to side with the
Jesuits, while in reality hating their doctrine.

When Inglesant remembered Cressy, and remembered also
that he belonged to the Benedictines, the polished and learned
cultivators of the useful arts, and was told that Cressy had
chosen this order that he might have leisure and books to prosecute
his studies and his writings, he conceived great hope
that from him he should learn the happy mean he was in search
of, between the worldliness of the Jesuits on the one hand, and
the narrow repulsiveness of the Mendicant orders and the
Calvinists on the other. In this frame of mind he sought an
interview with Cressy. The directions of the Jesuits and of the
Laudian School seemed to Inglesant to have failed ; to have

associated himself with the Jansenistss or Calvinists would have
been distasteful to him, and almost impossible. He sought in
the Benedictine monk that compromise which the heart of man
is perpetually seeking between the things of this world and the
things of God. But though for the time the influence of the
training of his life was somewhat shaken, it was far from removed,
and an event occurred which, even before he saw Cressy, reformed
the chains upon him to some extent. One Sunday
evening, the day before he was to meet Cressy, walking along
the Rue St Martin from the Boulevard where he had lodgings,
he turned into the Jesuits' Church just as the sermon had
begun. The dim light found its way into the vast Church from
the stained windows ; a lamp burning before some shrine shone
partially on the preacher, as he stood in the stone pulpit by a
great pillar, in his white surplice and rich embroidered stole.
He was a young man, thin and sad-looking, and spoke slowly,
and with long pauses and intervals, but with an intense eagerness
and pathos that went to every heart. The first words
that Inglesant heard, as he reached the nearest unoccupied
place, were these : —

Ah ! if you adored a God crowned with roses and with
pearls, it were a matter nothing strange ; but to prostrate yourselves
daily before a crucifix, charged with nails and thorns, —
you living in such excess and superfluity in the flesh, dissolved
in softness, — how can that be but cruel? Ah, think of that crucifix
as you lie warm in silken curtains, perfumed with eau de
nasse, as you sit at dainty feasts, as you ride forth in the sunshine
in gallantry. He is cold and naked ; He is alone ;
behind Him the sky is dreary and streaked with darkening
clouds, for the night cometh — the night of God. His locks
are wet with the driving rain ; His hair is frozen with the sleet j
His beauty is departed from Him ; all men have left him — all
men, and God also, and the holy angels hide their faces. He
is crowned with thorns, but you with garlands ; He wears

nothing in His hands but piercing nails ; you have rubies and
diamonds on yours. Ah ! will you tell me you can still be
faithful though in brave array ? I give that answer which
Tertullian gave, — ' I fear this neck snared with wreaths and
ropes of pearls and emeralds. I fear the sword of persecution
can find no entrance there.' No ! hear you not the voice of
the crucifix? Follow me. We are engaged to suffer by His sufferings
as we look on Him. Suffering is our vow and profession.

Love which cannot suffer is unworthy of the name of love."
# * # * #

The next day, at the appointed hour, he went to the Benedictine
Monastery, in the Rue de Varennes, and sent in his
name to Father de Cressy. He was shown, not into the
visitors' room, but into a private parlour, where Cressy came
to him immediately. Dressed in the habit of his order, with
a lofty and refined expression, he was a striking and attractive
man ; differing from the Jesuit in that, though both were
equally persuasive, the latter united more power of controlling
others than the appearance of Cressy implied. He had
known Inglesant slightly at Oxford, and greeted him with
great cordiality.

I am not surprised that you are come to me, Mr. Inglesant,"
he said, with a most winning gesture and smile ; " De
Genera, who was himself both a courtier and a recluse, says
that the penance of religious men was sweeter than the pleasures
of courtiers. Has your experience brought you to the
same conclusion?"

Inglesant thanked him for granting him an interview ; and
sitting down, he told him shortly the story of his life, and his
early partiality for the mystical theology ; of his wishes and
attempts ; of his desire to follow the Divine Master ; and of
his failures and discouragements, his studies, his Pagan sympathies
; and how life and reality of every kind, and inquiry,
and the truth of history, and philosophy, even while it sided

with or supported religion, still seemed to hinder and oppose
the heavenly walk.

I do not know, Mr. Inglesant," said De Cressy, "whether
your case is easier or more difficult than that of those who
usually come to me ; I have many come to me ; and they
usually, one and all, come with the exact words of the blessed
gospel on their lips, ' Sir, we would see Jesus.' And I look
them in the face often, and wonder, and often find no words
to speak. See Jesus, I often think, I do not doubt it ! who
would not wish to see Him who is the fulness of all perfection
that the heart and intellect ever conceived, in whom all creation
has its centre, all the troubles and sorrows of life have
their cure, all the longings of carnal men their fruition ? But
why come to me ? Is He not walking to and fro on the earth
continually, in every act of charity and self-sacrifice that is
done among men ? Is He not offered daily on every altar,
preached continually from every pulpit ? Why come to me ?
Old men of sixty and seventy come to me with these very
words, * Sir, we would see Jesus.' If the course of sixty years,
if the troubles and confusions of a long life, if He Himself has
not revealed this Beatific Vision to them, — how can I ? But
with you it is very different By your own story I know that
you have seen Jesus ; that you know Him as you know your
dearest friend. This makes our discourse at first much the
easier, for I need waste no words upon a matter to enlarge
upon which to you would be an insult to your heart. But it
makes it more difficult afterwards, when we come to ask
how it is that, with this transcendental knowledge, you are
still dissatisfied, and find life so difficult a path to tread. I
make no apology for speaking plainly; such would be as
much an insult to you as the other. You remind me of the
rich oratories I have seen of some of our Court ladies, where
everything is beautiful and costly, but where a classic statue
of Apollo stands by the side of a crucifix, a Venus with Our



Lady, a Cupid near St. Michael, and a pair of beads hanging
on Mercury's Caduceus.

You are like the young man who came to Jesus, and
whom Jesus loved, for you have great possessions. You have
been taught all that men desire to know, and are accomplished
in all that makes life delightful. You have the knowledge of
the past, and know the reality of men's power, and wisdom,
and beauty, which they possess of themselves, and did possess
in the old classic times. You have culled of the tree of knowledge,
and know good and evil ; yea, the good that belongs to
this world, and is part of it, and the strength and wisdom
and beauty of the children of this world ; yea, and the evil
and ignorance and folly of the children of light Let us
grant — I am willing to grant — that Plato has a purer spiritual
instinct than St. Paul. I will grant that Lucretius has the
wisdom of this world with him ; ay, and its alluring tongue.
Paul did not desire spiritual insight ; he wanted Jesus. You
stand as a god free to choose. On the one hand, you have the
delights of reason and of intellect, the beauty of that wonderful
creation which God made, yet did not keep ; the charms
of Divine philosophy, and the enticements of the poet's art :
on the other side, Jesus. You know Him, and have seen Him.
I need say no more of His perfections.

I do not speak to you, as I might speak to others, of
penalties and sufferings hereafter, in which, probably, you do
not believe. Nor do I speak to you, as I might to others, of
evidences that our faith is true, of proofs that hereafter we
shall walk with Christ and the saints in glory. I am willing
to grant you that it may be that we are mistaken ; that in the
life to come we may find we have been deceived ; nay, that
Jesus Himself is in a different station and position to what
we preach. This is nothing to your purpose. To those who
know Him as you know Him, and have seen Him as
you have, better Jesus, beaten and defeated, than all the
vol. 1. s

universe besides, triumphing and crowned. I offer to you
nothing but the alternative which every man sooner or later
must place before ' himself. Shall he turn a deaf ear to
the voice of reason, and lay himself open only to the light of
faith ? or shall he let human wisdom and human philosophy
break up this light, as through a glass, and please himself with
the varied colours upon the path of life ? Every man
must choose ; and having chosen, it is futile to lament
and regret ; he must abide by his choice, and by the different
fruit it brings. You wish this life's wisdom, and to walk with
Christ as well ; and you are your own witness that it cannot
be. The two cannot walk together, as you have found. To
you, especially, this is the great test and trial that Christ
expects of you to the very full. We of this religious order
have given ourselves to learning, as you know ; nay, in former
years, to that Pagan learning which is so attractive to
you, though of late years we devote ourselves to producing
editions of the Fathers of the Church. But even this you
must keep yourself from. To most men this study is no
temptation; to you it is fatal. I put before you your life,
with no false colouring, no tampering with the truth. Come
with me to Douay; you shall enter our house according to the
strictest rule ; you shall engage in no study that is any delight
or effort to the intellect: but you shall teach the smallest
children in the schools, and visit the poorest people, and perform
the duties of the household — and all for Christ. I
promise you on the faith of a gentleman and a priest — I
promise you, for I have no shade of doubt — that in this path
you shall find the satisfaction of the heavenly walk ; you shall
walk with Jesus day by day, growing ever more and more like
to Him; and your path, without the least fall or deviation,
shall lead more and more into the light, until you come
unto the perfect day ; and on your death-bed — the deathbed
of a saint — the vision of the smile of God shall sustain

you, and Jesus Himself shall meet you at the gates of eternal
life."

Every word that Cressy spoke went straight to Inglesant's
conviction, and no single word jarred upon his taste. He
implicitly believed that what the Benedictine offered him he
should find. There was no doubt — could be no doubt — that
it was by such choice as this that such men as Cressy gained
for themselves a power in the heavenly warfare, and not only
attained to the heavenly walk themselves, but moved the earth
to. its foundations, and drew thousands into the ranks of Christ.
He saw the choice before him fairly, as Cressy had said, and
indeed it was not for the first time. Then his mind went back
to his old master, and to that school where no such thing as
this was required of him, and yet the heavenly light offered to
him as freely as by this man. The sermon of the night before
came into his mind again ; surely, where such doctrine as that
was preached, might he not find rest ? It was true that his
coming there, and his confession, closed his lips before Cressy ;
but might he not have been too hasty ? Life was not yet over
with him ; perchance he might yet find what he sought in some
other way. He saw the path of perfect self-denial open before
him, — renunciation, not of pleasure, nor even of the world, but
of himself, of his intellect, of his very life, — and distinctly of
his free choice he refused it. This only may be said for him :
he was convinced that every word the Benedictine had said to
him was true, — that in the life he offered him he should follow
and find the Lord ; but he was not equally convinced that it
was the will of Christ that he should accept this life, and
should follow and find Him in this way, and in no other.
Had he been as clear of this as of the truth of Cressy's words,
then indeed would his turning away have been a clear denial
of Jesus Christ ; but it was the voice of Cressy that spoke to
him, and not the voice of Christ; it came to him with a
conviction and a power all but irresistible, but it failed to carry

with it the absolute conviction of the heavenly call. How
could it? The heavenly call itself must speak very loud
before it silences and convinces the unwilling heart.

He rose from his seat before the monk, and looking sadly
down upon him, he said, —

I believe all that you say and all that you promise, and
that the heavenly walk lies before me in the road that you
have pointed out ; but I cannot follow it — it is too strait. I
return your kindness and your plainness with words equally
plain ; and while you think of me as lost and unworthy, it maybe
some well-earned satisfaction to you to remember that none
ever spoke truer, or nobler, or kinder words to any man than
you have spoken to me."

I do not look on you as lost, Mr. Inglesant, — far from it,"
said Cressy, rising as he spoke ; " I expect you will yet witness
a good confession for Christ in the world and in the Court ;
but I believe you have had to-day a more excellent way shown
you, which, but for the trammels of your birth and training,
you might have had grace to walk in, for your own exceeding
blessedness and the greater glory of the Lord Christ I wish
you every benediction of this life and of the next ; and I shall
remember you at the altar as a young man who came to Jesus,
and whom Jesus loves."

Inglesant took his leave of him, and left the monastery.
He came away very sorrowful from Serenus de Cressy.
Whether he also, at the same time, was turning away from
Jesus Christ, who can tell?

The next day the Jesuit arrived in Paris.

CHAPTER XX.

Inelegant was much struck with the change in the
Jesuit's appearance. He was worn and thin, and looked
discouraged and depressed. He was evidently extremely
pleased to see his pupil again, and his manner was affectionate
and even respectful. He appeared shaken and nervous, and
Inglesant fancied that he was rather shy of meeting him ; but
if so, it soon passed off under the influence of the cordial
greeting with which he was received.

To Inglesant's inquiry as to where he had been, the Jesuit
answered that it did not matter ; he had succeeded very
imperfectly in his mission, whatever it had been. He asked
Inglesant whether he had met with Sir Kenelm Digby, or
heard anything of him. In reply to which Inglesant told him
the reports which he had heard concerning him.

He is mad," said the Jesuit, " and he is not the less
dangerous. He was sent to Rome by the Queen, where he
made great mischief, and offended the Pope by his insolence.
He has sided with the Parliament in England, and is engaged
on a scheme to persuade Cromwell to recall the King, and seat
him on the throne as an elective monarch. The Queen does
not wish to break with him altogether, both because he has
great influence with some powerful Catholics, and because, if
nothing better can be done, she would perforce accept the
elective monarchy for her son. But the scheme is chimerical,
and will come to nothing. Cromwell intends the crown for
himself. You see, Johnny," continued St. Clare with a smile, " all

our plans have failed. The English Church is destroyed, and
those Catholics who always opposed it are thought much of at
Rome now, and carry all before them. I have not altered my
opinion, however, and I shall die in the same. But we must
wait. I do not wish to influence you any more, nor to involve
you any longer in any schemes of mine, but the Queen wants
you to go as an agent to Rome on her behalf; and it would be
of great service to me, and to any plans which I may in future
have, if I had such a friend and correspondent as yourself in
that city. If you have no other plans, I do not see that you
could do much better than go. You shall have such introductions
to my friends there — cardinals and great men — that you
may live during your stay in the best company and luxury, and
without expense. One of my friends is the Cardinal Renuc-
cinna, brother of the Legate the Bishop of Fermo, whom you
met in Ireland, and who, by the by, was much impressed with
you. You cannot fail to make friends with many who will
have it in their power to be of great use to you j and you may
establish yourself in some lucrative post, either as a layman, or,
if you choose to take orders, as a priest. You will believe
me, also, when I say, — what I say to very few, — that I am under
obligations to you which I can never repay, and nothing will
give me greater pleasure than to see you rich and prosperous,
and admired and powerful in the Roman Court. You have
the qualities and the experience to command success. You
will be backed by the whole power of my friends, with whom
to make your fortune will be the work of an after-dinner's talk.
You will see Italy, and delight yourself in the sight of all
those places and antiquities of which we have so often talked ;
and with your cultivated and religious tastes you will enter,
with the most perfect advantage, into that magic world of sight
and sound which the churches and sacred services in Rome
present to the devout. I cannot see that you can do better
than go."

Inglesant sat looking at the Jesuit with a singular expression
in his eyes, which the latter did not understand. Yes,
surely it was a very different offer from that of Serenus de
Cressy, yet Inglesant did not delay to answer from any indecision
; from the moment the Jesuit began to speak he knew
that he should go. But he took a kind of melancholy pleasure
in contrasting the two paths, the two men, the different choice
they offered him, and in reading a half sad, half sarcastic
commentary on himself.
After a minute or two, he said, —

I thank you much for your good-will and quite undeserved
patronage. It is by far too good an offer to be refused,
and I gladly accept it. You know, doubtless, what has
happened to me, especially within these last few days, and that
I have no friend left on earth save yourself; such a journey
as that which you propose to me will, at the least, distract my
thoughts from such a melancholy fate as mine."

"I knew of your brother's murder," said the Jesuit; "I
have heard of the man before — one of those utterly lost and
villanous natures which no country but Italy ever produced.
Do you wish to seek him?"

Inglesant told him that one of his principal objects in staying
in Paris was to seek his assistance for that purpose ; and
that he felt it a sacred duty, which he owed to his brother,
that his murderer should not escape unpunished.

I have no doubt I can learn where he is," said the other ;
but I do not well see what you can do when you have found
him, unless it happens to be in a place where you have powerful
friends. It is true that he is so generally known and hated
in Italy, that you might easily get help in punishing him
should you meet him there ; but he is hardly likely to return
to his native country, except for some powerful reason."

"If I can do nothing else," said Inglesant bitterly, " I can
tell him who I am and shoot him dead, or run him through

the body. He murdered my brother, just as he had come back
to me — to me in prison and alone, and was a loving friend
and brother to me, and would have been through life. Do
you suppose that I should spare him, or that any moment will
be so delightful to me as the one in which I see him bleed to
death at my feet, as I saw my poor brother, struck by his hand,
as he shall be by mine ? "

The Jesuit looked at Inglesant with surprise. The terrible
earnestness of his manner, and the unrelenting and grim
pleasure he seemed to take at the prospect of revenge, seemed
so inconsistent with the refined and religious tone of his ordinary
character, approaching almost to weakness ; but the next
moment he thought, " Why should I wonder at it ? The man
who has gone through what he did without flinching must have
a strength of purpose about him far other than some might
think."

He said aloud, —

"Well, I doubt not I can find him; he is well known in
France, in Spain, and in Italy, and if he goes to Germany he
can be traced. But what was the other sad misfortune you
spoke of? — something within the last few days, you said."

Inglesant had been looking fixedly before him since he had
last spoken, with a steady blank expression, which, since his
imprisonment, his face sometimes wore, — part of a certain wildness
in his look which bespoke a mind ill at ease and a confused
brain. He was following up his prey to the death.

He started at the Jesuit's question, and seemed to recollect
with an effort ; then he said, —

"Mary Collet died at the convent of the Nuns of the

last week. I only found her out the night before;"

and as he spoke, the contrast arose in his mind of the deathbed
of the saint-like girl, and the Italian's bleeding body struck
down by his revenge. The footsteps of the Saviour he had
promised his friend to follow, surely could not lead him to such

a scene as that. If this were the first-fruits of his refusal to
follow Serenus de Cressy, surely he must also have turned his
back on Christ Himself

He covered his face with his hands, and the Jesuit saw
that he wept. He supposed it was simply from grief at the
death of his friend, and he was surprised at the strength of
his attachment. Like others, he had thought Inglesant's love
a rather cool and Platonic passion.

I always thought him one of those nice and coy lovers,"
he said to himself, " who always observe some defect in the
thing they love, which weakens their passion, and shows them
that the reality is so much inferior to their idea, that they easily
desist from their enterprize, and vanish as if they had not so
much intention to love as to vanish, and had more shame to
have begun their courtship than purpose to continue it. He
must be much shaken by his suffering and by his brother's
death."

He waited a few moments, and then spoke to Inglesant
about his health, of his brother's death, and of his imprisonment.
He spoke to him of the late King, and of his distress
at the necessity under which he lay of denying Inglesant's commission
; and he said many other things calculated to cheer
his friend and please his self-regard.

Inglesant listened to him not without pleasure, but he said
little. An idea had taken possession of his mind, which he
carried with him into Italy and for long afterwards. He was
more than half convinced that, in rejecting Cressy's advice,
he had turned his back on Christ ; and he was the more confirmed
in this belief because never had the image of the Italian,
nor the desire of revenge, taken so strong a hold upon his
imagination as now. It occurred to his excited imagination
that Christ had deserted him, and the Fiend taken possession,
and that the course and intention of the latter would be to
lure him on, by such images, to some terrible and lonely place,
vol. 1. t

where the Italian and he together should be involved in one
common ghastly deed of crime, one common and eternal ruin.
The sense of having had a great act of self-denial placed
before him and having refused it, no doubt weighed down and
blunted his conscience ; and once placed, as he half thought,
upon the downward path, nothing seemed before him but the
gradual descent, adorned at first by some poor show of gaudy
flowers, but ending speedily — for there was no self-delusion to
such a nature as his, which had tasted of the heavenly food —
in miserable and filthy mire, where, loathing himself and
despised by others, nothing awaited him but eternal death
He answered the Jesuit almost mechanically, and on parting
from him at night promised indifferently to accompany him
on the morrow to an audience with the Queen.

END OF VOL. I.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

OF THE

UN I Verity

Of ILLINOIS



ShSj



v.Z

m

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

i

^ ^jg



FEE2'»
MAR 1 1978

APR 7 m

APR 71975

L161 — O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

j^

http://www.archive.org/details/johninglesantrom02shor

a iRximance

^AryairriTot, vvv reKva Quod ia/xev, scat
offTTW iipavepudt] tel iao/j-eda.

VOL. 11.

Mention

MACMILLAN AND CO.


JOHN INGLESANT.

CHAPTER I.

INGLESANT travelled to Marseilles, and by packet boat
to Genoa. The beauty of the approach by sea to this
city, and the lovely gardens and the country around gave him
the greatest delight. The magnificent streets of palaces,
mostly of marble, and the thronged public places, the galleries
of paintings, and the museums, filled his mind with astonishment;
and the entrance into Italy, wonderful as he had expected
it to be, surpassed his anticipation. He stayed sometime
in Genoa, to one or more of the Jesuit fathers in which
city he had letters. Under the guidance of these cultivated
men he commenced an education in art, such as in these days
can be scarcely understood. From his coming into Italy a
new life had dawned upon him in the music of that country.
Fascinated as he had always been with the Church music at
London and Oxford, for several years he had been cut off from
all such enjoyment, and, at its best, it was but the prelude to
what he heard now. For whole hours he would remain on
his knees at mass, lost and wandering in that strange world of
infinite variety, the mass music — so various in its phases, yet
with a monotone of pathos through it all. The musical parties
Were also a great pleasure. He played the violin a little
in England, and rapidly improved by the excellent tuition he

VOL. II. B

met with here. He became, however, a proficient in what the
Italians called the viola d'amore, a treble viol, strung with
wire, which attracted him by its soft and sweet tone. Amid a
concord of sweet sounds, within hearing of the splash of fountains,
and surrounded by the rich colours of an Italian interior,
the young Englishman found himself in a new world of delight.
As the very soul of music, at one moment merry and the next
mad with passion and delightful pain, uttered itself in the long-continued
tremor of the violins, it took possession in all its
power of Inglesant's spirit. The whole of life is recited upon
the plaintive strings, and by their mysterious effect upon the
brain fibres, men are brought into sympathy with life in all its
forms, from the gay promise of its morning sunrise to the
silence of its gloomy night.

From Genoa he went to Sienna, where he stayed sometime
— the dialect here being held to be very pure, and fit for
foreigners to accustom themselves to. He spoke Italian before
with sufficient ease, and associating with several of the religious
in this city he soon acquired the language perfectly.
There can be nothing more delightful than the first few days
of life in Italy in the company of polished and congenial men.
Inglesant enjoyed life at Sienna very much; the beautiful
clean town, all marble and polished brick, the shining walls
and pavement softened and shaded by gardens and creeping
vines, the piazza and fountains, the cool retired walks with
distant prospects, the Duomo, within and without of polished
marble inexpressibly beautiful, with its exceeding sweet music
and well tuned organs, the libraries full of objects of the
greatest interest, the statues and antiquities everywhere interspersed.


The summer and winter passed over, and he was still in
Sienna, and seemed loth to leave. He associated mostly with
the ecclesiastics to whom he had brought letters of introduction,
for he was more anxious at first to become acquainted

with the country and its treasures of art and literature than to
make many acquaintances. He kept himself so close and
studious that he met with no adventures such as most travellers,
especially those who abandon themselves to the dissolute
courses of the country, meet with, — courses which were said
at that time to be able to make a devil out of a saint. He
saw nothing of the religious system but what was excellent and
delightful, seeing everything through the medium of his friends.
He read all the Italian Literature that was considered necessary
for a gentleman to be acquainted with ; and though the learning
of the Fathers was not what it had been a century ago, he
still found several to whom he could talk of his favourite
Lucretius and of the divine lessons of Plato.

When he had spent some time in this way in Italy, and
considered himself fitted to associate with the inhabitants
generally, the Benedictines took Inglesant to visit the family
of Cardinal Chili, who was afterwards Pope, and who was a
native of Sienna. The cardinal himself was in Rome, but his
brother, Don Mario, received Inglesant politely, and introduced
him to his son, Don Flavio, and to two of his nephews.
With one of these, Don Agostino di Chili, Inglesant became
very intimate, and spent much of his time at his house. In
this family he learnt much of the state of parties in Rome,
and was advised in what way to comport himself when he
should come there. The Cardinal Panzirollo, who with the
Cardinal-Patron (PamphiHo), had lately been in great esteem,
had just died, having weakened his health by his continued
application to business, and the Pope had appointed Cardinal
Chili his successor as first Secretary of State. The Pope's
sister-in-law. Donna Olympia Maldachini, was supposed to be
banished, but many thought this was only a political retreat,
and that she still directed the affairs of the Papacy. At any
rate she soon returned to Rome and to power. This extraordinary
woman, whose loves and intrigues were enacted on

the stage in Protestant countries, was the sister-in-law of the
Pope, and was said to Hve with him in criminal correspondence,
and to have charmed him by some secret incantation —
the incantation of a strong woman over a weak and criminal
man. For a long time she had abused her authority in the
most scandalous manner, and exerted her unbounded ascendency
over the Pope to gratify her avarice and ambition, which
were as unbounded as her power. She disposed of all benefices,
which she kept vacant till she was fully informed of their
value ; she exacted a third of the entire value of all offices,
receiving twelve years' value for an office for life. She gave
audience upon public affairs, enacted new laws, abrogated
those of former Popes, and sat in council with the Pope with
bundles of memorials in her hands. Severe satires were daily
pasted on the statue of Pasquin at Rome ; yet it seemed so
incredible that Cardinal PanziroUo, backed though he was by
the Cardinal-Nephew, should be able to overthrow the power
of this woman by a representation he was said to have made
to the Pope, that when Innocent at length, with great reluctance
banished Olympia, most persons supposed it was only a
temporary piece of policy.

The Chili were at this time living in Sienna, in great
simplicity, at their house in the Strada Romana, and in one or
two small villas in the neighbourhood; but they were of an
ancient and noble family of this place, and were held in great
esteem, and were all of them men of refinement and carefully
educated. They had made considerable figure in Rome
during the Pontificate of Julius II. ; but afterwards meeting
with misfortunes, were obliged to return to Sienna, where they
had continued to reside ever since. At this time there was
no idea that the Cardinal of this house would be the next
Pope, and though well acquainted with the politics of Rome,
the family occupied themselves mostly with other and more
innocent amusements — in the arrangement of their gardens

and estates, in the duties of hospitality, and in artistic, Literary,
and antiquarian pursuits. The University and College of
Sienna had produced many excellent scholars and several
Popes, and the city itself was full of remains of antique art,
and was adorned with many modern works of great beauty —
the productions of that school which takes its name from the
town. Among such scenes as these, and with such companions,
Inglesant's time passed so pleasantly that he was in
no hurry to go on to Rome.

The country about the city was celebrated for hunting,
and the wild boar and the stag afforded excellent and exciting,
if sometimes dangerous sport. Amid the beautiful valleys,
rich with vineyards, and overlooked by rocky hills and castled
summits, were scenes fitted both for pleasure and sport ; and
the hunting gave place, often and in a moment, to al fresco
banquets, and conversations and pleasant balance with the
ladies, by the cool shade near some fountain, or under some
over-arching rock. Under the influence of these occupations,
so various and so attractive both to the mind and body, and
thanks to so many novel objects and continual change of
scene, Inglesant's health rapidly improved, and his mind
recovered much of the calm and cheerfulness which were
natural to it. He thought little of the Italian, and the terrible
thoughts with which he had connected him were for the time
almost forgotten, though, from time to time, when any accident
recalled the circumstances to his recollection, they
returned upon his spirits with a melancholy effect.

The first time that these gloomy thoughts overpowered him
since his arrival at Sienna was on the following occasion. He
had been hunting with a party of friends in the valley of Mon-talking
one day in early autumn. The weather previously had
been wet, and the rising sun had drawn upward masses of
white vapour, which wreathed the green foliage and the vine
slopes, where the vintage was going on, and concealed from

sight the hills on every side. A pale golden light pervaded
every place, and gave mystery and beauty to the meanest
cottages and farm-sheds. The party, having missed the stag,
stopped at a small sterna at the foot of a sloping hill, and
Inglesant and another gentleman wandered up into the vineyard
that sloped upwards behind the house. As they went
up, the vines became gradually visible out of the silvery mist,
and figures of peasant men and women moved about — vague
and half-hidden until they were close to them ; pigeons and
doves flew in and out. Inglesant's friend stopped to speak to
some of the peasant girls ; but Inglesant himself, tempted by
the pleasing mystery that the mountain slope — apparently full
of hidden and beautiful life — presented, wandered on, gradually
climbing higher and higher, till he had left the vintage far
below him, and heard no sound but that of the grasshoppers
among the grass and the olive trees, and the distant laugh of
the villagers, or now and then the music of a hunting horn,
which one of the party below was blowing for his own amusement.
The mist was now so thick that he could see nothing,
and it was by chance that he even kept the ascending path.
The hill was rocky here and there, but for the most part was
covered with short grass, cropped by the goats which Inglesant
startled as he came unexpectedly upon them in the mist.
Suddenly, after some quarter of an hour's climbing, he came
out of the mist in a moment, and stood under a perfectly clear
sky upon the summit of the hill. The blue vault stretched
above him without a cloud, all alight with the morning sun ;
at his feet the grassy hill-top sparkling in dew, not yet dried
up, and vocal with grasshoppers, not yet silenced by the heat.
Nothing could be seen but wreaths of cloud. The hill-top
rose like an island out of a sea of vapour, seething and rolling
round in misty waves, and lighted with prismatic colours of
every hue. Out of this sea, here and there, other hill-tops, on
which goats were browsing, lay beneath the serene heaven ;

and rocky points and summits, far higher than these, reflected
back the sun. He would have seemed to stand above all
human conversation and walks of men, if every now and then
some break in the mist had not taken place, opening glimpses
of landscapes and villages far below ; and also the sound of
bells, and the music of the horn, came up fitfully through the
mist. Why, he did not know, but as he gazed on this, the
most wonderful and beautiful sight he had ever seen, the
recollection of Serenus de Cressy returned upon his mind
with intense vividness ; and the contrast between the life he
was leading in Italy, amid every delight of mind and sense,
and the life the Benedictine had offered him in vain, smote
upon his conscience with terrible force. Upon the lonely
mountain top, beneath the serene silence, he threw himself
upon the turf, and, overwhelmed with a sudden passion,
repented that he had been born. Amid the extraordinary
loveliness, the most gloomy thoughts took possession of him,
and the fiend seemed to stand upon the smiling mount and
claim him for himself So palpably did the consciousness of
his choice, worldly as he thought it, cause the presence of evil
to appear, that in that heavenly solitude he looked round for
the murderer of his brother. The moment appeared to him,
for the instant, to be the one appointed for the consummation
of his guilt. The horn below sounding the recall drew his
mind out of this terrible reverie, and he came down the hill
(from which the mist was gradually clearing) as in a dream.
He rejoined his company, who remarked the wild expression
of his face.

His old disease, in fact, never entirely left him; he
walked often as in a dream, and when the fit was upon him
could never discern the real and the unreal. He knew that
terrible feeling when the world and all its objects are slipping
away, when the brain reels, and seems only to be kept fixed
and steady by a violent exertion of the will ; and the mind is

confused and perplexed with thoughts which it cannot grasp,
and is full of fancies of vague duties and acts which it cannot
perform, though it is convinced that they are all important to
be done.

The Chili family knew of Inglesant's past life, and of his
acquaintance with the Archbishop of Fermo, the Pope's
Nuncio, and they advised him to make the acquaintance of
his brother, the Cardinal Rinuccini, before going to Rome.

If you go to Rome in his train, or have him for a patron
on your arrival, you will start in a much better position than
if you enter the city an entire stranger, — and the present is
not a very favourable time for going to Rome. The Pope is
not expected to live very long. Donna Olympia and the Pam-philip,
or pretended Pamphili (for the Cardinal Nephew is
not a Pamphili at all), are securing what they can, using every
moment to enrich themselves while they have the power.
The moment the Pope dies they fall, and with them all who
have been connected with them. It is therefore useless to goto
Rome at present, except as a private person to see the
city, and this you can do better in the suite of the Cardinal
than in any other way. You may wonder that we do not
offer to introduce you to our uncle the Cardinal Chili ; but we
had rather that you should come to Rome at first under the
patronage of another. You will understand more of our
reasons before long; meanwhile, we will write to our uncle
respecting you, and you may be sure that he will promote
your interests as much as is in his power."

The Cardinal Rinuccini was at that time believed to be at
his own villa, situated in a village some distance from Florence
to the north, and Don Agostino offered to accompany Inglesant
so far on his journey.

This ride, though a short one, was very pleasant, and
endeared the two men to each other more than ever. They
travelled simply, with a very small train, and did not hurry

themselves on the route. Indeed, they travelled so leisurely
that they were very nearly being too late for their purpose.
On their arrival at the last stage before reaching Florence,
they stopped for the night at a small sterna, and had no
sooner taken up their quarters than a large train arrived at
the inn, and on their inquiry they were informed it was the
Cardinal Rinuccini himself on his way to Rome. They immediately
sent their names to his Eminence, saying they had
been coming to pay their respects to him, and offering to
resign their apartment, which was the best in the house. The
Cardinal, who travelled in great state, with his four-post bed
and furniture of all kinds with him, returned a message that
he could not disturb them in their room ; that he remembered
Mr. Inglesant's name in some letters from his brother ; and
that he should be honoured by their company to supper.

The best that the village could afford was placed on the
Cardinal's table, and their host entertained the two young men
with great courtesy.

He was descended from a noble family in Florence, which
boasted among its members Octavo Rinuccini the poet, who
came to Paris in the suite of Marie de Medicis, and is said by
some to have been the inventor of the Opera. Besides the
Pope's Legate another brother of the Cardinal's, Thomas baptista
Rinuccini, was Great Chamberlain to the Grand Duke of
Tuscany. All the brothers had been carefully educated, and
were men of literary tastes ; but while the Archbishop had
devoted himself mostly to politics, the Cardinal had confined
himself almost entirely to literary pursuits. He owed his
Cardinal's hat to the Grand Duke, who was extremely partial
to him, and promoted his interests in every way. He was a
man of profound learning, and an enthusiastic admirer of
antiquity, but was also an acute logician and theologian, and
perfectly well-read in Church history, and in the controversy
of the century, both in theology and philosophy. Before the

end of supper Inglesant found that he was acquainted with
the writings of Hobbes, whom he had met in Italy, and of
whom he inquired with interest, as soon as he found Inglesant
had been acquainted with him.

The following morning the Cardinal expressed his sorrow
that the business which took him to Rome was of so important
a nature that it obliged him to proceed without delay. He
approved of the advice that Inglesant had already received,
and recommended him to proceed to Florence with Don
Agostino, as he was so near ; so that he might not have his
journey for nothing, and might see the city under very favourable
circumstances. Inglesant was the more ready to agree
to this as he wished to see as much of Italy as he could, unshackled
by the company of the great, which, in the uncertain
state of health both of his body and mind, was inexpressibly
burdensome to him. He had already seen in this last
journey a great deal of the distress and bad government which
prevailed everywhere ; and he wished to make himself acquainted,
in some measure, with the causes of this distress
before going to Rome. As he rode through the beautiful
plains he had been astonished at the few inhabitants, and at
the wretchedness of the few. Italy had suffered greatly in her
commerce by the introduction of Indian silks into Europe.
Some of her most flourishing cities had been depopulated,
their nobles ruined; and long streets of neglected palaces,
deserted and left in magnificent decay, presented a melancholy
though romantic spectacle. But bad government, and the
oppression and waste caused by the accumulated wealth and
idleness of the innumerable religious orders, had more to do
in ruining the prosperity of the country than any commercial
changes ; and proofs of this fact met the traveller's eye on
every hand.

It seemed to Inglesant that it was very necessary that he
should satisfy himself upon some of these points before becoming

involved in any political action in the country; and he
shrank from entering Rome at present, and from attaching
himself to any great man or any party. In a country where
the least false step is fatal, and may plunge a man in irretrievable
ruin, or consign him to the dungeons of the Holy Office,
it is certainly prudent in a stranger to be wary of his first steps.
Having communicated these resolutions to his friend, the two
young men, on their arrival at Florence, took lodgings privately
in the Piazza del Spirit Santo ; and occupied their time for
some days in viewing the city, and visiting the churches and
museums, as though they had been simply travellers from
curiosity.

Inglesant believed the Italian to be in Rome, which was a
further reason for delaying his journey there. He believed
that he was going to engage in some terrible conflict, and he
wished to prepare himself by an acquaintance with every form
of life in this strange country. The singular scenes that strike
a stranger in Italy — the religious processions, the character
and habits of the poorer classes, their ideas of moral obligation,
their ecclesiastical and legal government — all appeared
to him of importance to his future fate.

As he was perfectly unacquainted with the person of his
enemy, there was a sort of vague expectation — not to say dread
always present to his mind ; for, though he fancied that it
would be in Rome that he should find the Italian, yet it was
not at all impossible that at any moment — it might be in
Florence, or in the open country — he might be the object of
a murderous attack. His person was doubtless known to the
murderer of his brother, and he thus walked everywhere in the
full light, while his enemy was hidden in the dark.

These ideas were seldom absent from his mind, and the
image of the murderer was almost constantly before his eyes.
Often, as some marked figure crossed his path, he started and
watched the retreating form, wondering whether the object of

JOHN INGLESANT ; [chap. i.

his morbid dread was before him. Often, as the uncovered
corpse was borne along the streets, the thought struck him
that perhaps his fear and his search were aUke needless, and
that before him on the bier, harmless and strewn with flowers,
lay his terrible foe. These thoughts naturally prevented his
engaging unrestrainedly in the pursuits of his age and rank,
and he often let Don Agostino go alone into the gay society
which was open to them in Florence.

In pursuit of his intention Inglesant took every opportunity,
without incurring remark, of associating with the lower
orders, and learning their habits, traditions, and tone of
thought. He chose streets which led through the poorer
parts of the town in passing from one part to another, and in
this way, and in the course of his visits to different churches
and religious houses, he was able to converse with the common
people without attracting attention. In excursions into the
country, whether on parties of pleasure or for sport, he was
also able to throw himself in the same way among the peasantry.
Under the pretence of shooting quails he passed several
days in more than one country village, and had become acquainted
with several of the cures, from whom he gained much
information respecting the habits of the people, and of their
ideas of crime and of lawful revenge.

One of these cures — a man of penetration and intellect —
strongly advised him to see Venice before he went to Rome.

Venice," he said to him, " is the sink of all wickedness,
and as such it is desirable that you should see the people there,
and mix with them ; besides, as such, it is not at all unlikely
that the man you seek may be found there."

V{\\dX is the cause of this wickedness ? " asked Inglesant.

There are several causes," replied the priest. " One is
that the Holy Office there is under the control of the State, and
is therefore almost powerless. Wickedness and license of all
kinds are therefore unrestrained."

Inglesant mentioned this advice to Don Agostino, and his
desire to proceed to Venice ; but as the other was unwilling to
leave Florence till the termination of the Carnival, which was
now approaching, he was obliged to postpone his intention for
some weeks.

On one of the opening days of the Carnival, Inglesant had
accompanied Don Agostino to a magnificent supper given by
the Grand Duke at his villa and gardens at the Loggia
Imperial, some distance outside the Romana gate.

Inglesant had succeeded in throwing off for a time his
gloomy thoughts, and had taken his share in the gaiety of the
festival; but the effort and the excitement had produced a
reaction, and towards morning he had succeeded in detaching
himself from the company, many of whom — the banquet being
over — were strolling in the lovely gardens in the cool air
which preceded the dawn, and he returned alone to the city.
As this was his frequent custom, his absence did not surprise
Don Agostino, who scarcely noticed his friend's eccentricities.

■\\Tien Inglesant reached Florence, the sun had scarcely
risen, and in the miraculously clear and solemn light the
countless pinnacles and marble fronts of the wonderful city
rose with sharp colour and outline into the sky. It lay with
the country round it studded with the lines of cypress and
encompassed by the massy hills — silent as the grave, and
lovely as paradise ; and ever and anon, as it lay in the morning
light, a breeze from the mountains passed over it, rustling
against the marble facades and through the belfries of its
towers, like the whisper of a God. Now and again, clear and
sharp in the liquid air, the musical bells of the Campanili
rang out the time. The cool expanse of the gardens, the
country walk, the pure air, and the silent city, seemed to lira
to chide and reprove the license and gaiety of the night.
Excited by the events of the Carnival, his mind and imagination
were in that state in which, from the inward fancy, phantoms

are projected upon the real stage of life, and, playing
their fantastic parts, react upon the excited sense, producing
conduct which in turn is real in its result.

As Inglesant entered the city and turned into one of the
narrow streets leading up from the Arno, the market people
were already entering by the gates, and thronging up with
their wares to the Piazze and the markets. Carpenters were
already at work on the scaffolds and other preparations for the
concluding festivals of the Carnival ; but all these people, and
all their actions, and even the sounds that they produced, wore
that unreal and unsubstantial aspect which the very early
morning light casts upon everything.

As Inglesant ascended the narrow street, between the white
stone houses which set off the brilliant blue above, several
porters and countrywomen, carrying huge baskets and heaps
of country produce, ascended with him, or passed him as he
loitered along, and other more idle and equivocal persons,
who were just awake, looked out upon him from doorways and
corners as he passed. He had on a gala dress of silk, somewhat
disordered by the night and by his walk, and must have
appeared a suitable object for the lawless attempts of the
ladrone of a great city ; but his appearance was probably not
sufficiently helpless to encourage attack.

Half-way up the street, at the corner of a house, stood an
image of the Virgin, round which the villagers stopped for a
moment, as much to rest as to pay their devotions. As Inglesant
stopped also, he noticed an old man of a wretched and
abject demeanour, leaning against the wall of the house as
though scarcely able to stand, and looking eagerly at some of
the provisions which were carried past him. True to his custom,
Inglesant — when he had given him some small coin as an
alms — began to speak to him.

You have carried many such loads as these, father, I
doubt not, in your time, though it must be a light one now."

I am past carrying even myself," said the other, in a
weak and whining voice ; " but I have not carried loads all
my life. I have kept a shop on the Goldsmith's Bridge, and
have lived at my ease. Now I have nothing left me but the
sun — the sun and the cool shade."

Yours is a hard fate."

It is a hard and miserable world, and yet I love it. It
has done me nothing but evil, and yet I watch it and seek
out what it does, and listen to what goes on, just as if I
thought to hear of any good fortune likely to come to me.
Foolish old man that I am ! What is it to me what people
say or do, or who dies, or who is married ? and why should I
come out here to see the market people pass, and comb this
street to hear of the murder that was done here last night, and
look at the body that lies in the room above?"

What murder ? " said Inglesant. " Who was murdered,
and by whom ? "

He is a foreigner ; they say an Angles — a traveller here
merely. Who murdered him I know not, though they do say
that too."

Where is the body ? " said Inglesant. " Let us go up."
And he gave the old man another small coin.

The old man looked at him for a moment with a peculiar
expression.

Better not, Signore," he said ; " better go home."

*' Do not fear for me," said Inglesant ; " I bear a charmed
life ; no steel can touch me, nor any bullet hurt me, till my
hour comes; and my hour is not yet."

The old man led the way to an open door, carved with
tracery and foliaged work, and they ascended a flight of stairs.
It was one of those houses, so common in Italian towns, whose
plain and massive exterior, pierced with few and narrow windows,
gives no idea of the size and splendour of the rooms
within. When they reached the top of the stairs, Inglesant

saw that the house had once, and probably not long before,
been the residence of some person of wealth. They passed
through several rooms with carved chimney-pieces and
cornices, and here and there even some massive piece of
furniture still remained. From the windows that opened on
the inner side Inglesant could see the tall cypresses of a
garden, and hear the splash of fountains. But the house had
fallen from its high estate, and was now evidently used for the
vilest purposes. After passing two or three rooms, they
reached an upper hall or dining-room of considerable length,
and painted in fresco apparently of some merit. A row of
windows on the left opened on the garden, from which the
sound of voices and laughter came up.

The room was bare of furniture, except towards the upper
end, where was a small and shattered table, upon which the
body of the murdered man was laid. Inglesant went up and
stood by its side.

There was no doubt whose countryman he had been. The
fair English boy, scarcely bordering upon manhood — the heir,
probably, of bright hopes — traveling with a careless or incompetent
tutor, lay upon the small table, his long hair glistening
in the sunlight, his face peaceful and smiling as in sleep. The
fatal rapier thrust, marked by the stain upon the clothes, was
the sole sign that his mother — waking up probably at that
moment in distant England, with his image in her heart— was
bereaved for ever of her boy. Inglesant stood silent a few
moments, looking sadly down ; that other terrible figure, upon
the white hearthstone, was so constantly in his mind, that this
one, so like it, scarcely could be said to recall the image of his
murdered brother ; but the whole scene certainly strengthened
his morbid fancy, and it seemed to him that he was on the
footsteps of the murderer, and that his fate was drawing near.
His steps are still in blood," he said aloud j " and it is
warm ; he cannot be far off."

He turned, as he spoke, to look for the old man, but he
was gone, and in his place a ghastly figure met Inglesant's
glance.

Standing about three feet from the table, a little behind
Inglesant, and also looking fixedly at the murdered boy, was
the figure of a corpse. The face was thin and fearfully white,
and the whole figure was wrapped and swathed in graveclothes,
somewhat disordered and loosened, so as to give play
to the limbs. This form took no notice of the other's presence,
but continued to gaze at the body with its pallid ghastly face.

Inglesant scarcely started. Nothing could seem more
strange and unreal to him than what was passing on every
side. That the dead should return and stand by him seemed
to him not more fearful and unreal than all the rest.

Suddenly the corpse turned its eyes upon Inglesant, and
regarded him with a fixed and piercing glance.

"You spoke of the author of this deed as though you
knew him," it said.

I am on the track of a murderer, and my fate is urging
me on. It seems to me that I see his bloody steps."

This was no murder," said the corpse, in an irritated and
impatient voice. " It was a chance melee, and an unfortunate
and unhappy thrust ; we do not even know the name of
the man who lies there. Are you the avenger of blood, that
you see murder at every step?"

"I am in truth the avenger of blood," said Inglesant
in a low and melancholy voice ; " would I were not."

The corpse continued to look at Inglesant fixedly, and
would have spoken, but the voices which had been heard in
the garden now seemed to come nearer, and hurried steps
approached the room. The laughter that Inglesant had heard
was stilled, and deep and solemn voices strove together, and
one above the rest said, " Bring up the murderer."

The corpse turned round impatiently, and the next moment

VOL. II. c

from a small door, which opened on a covered balcony and
outside staircase to the garden, there came hurriedly in a troop
of the most strange and fantastic figures that the eye could
rest upon. Angels and demons, and savage men in lions' skins,
and men with the heads of beasts and birds, swarmed tumultuously
in, dragging with them an unfortunate being in his
night-clothes, and apparently just out of bed, whom they
urged on with blows. This man, who was only half-awake,
was evidently in the extremity of terror, and looked upon
himself as already in the place of eternal torment. He addressed
now one and now another of his tormentors, as well
as he could find breath, in the most abject terms, endeavouring,
in the most ludicrous manner, to choose the titles and
epithets to address them most in accordance with the individual
appearance that the spectre he entreated wore to his
dazzled eyes — whether a demon or an angel, a savage or a
man-beast. When he saw the murdered man, and the terrible
figure that stood by Inglesant, he nearly fainted with terror ;
but, on many voices demanding loudly that he should be
brought in contact with the body of his victim, he recovered
a little, and recognizing in Inglesant, at least, a being of an
earthly sphere, and by his dress a man of rank, he burst from
his tormentors, and throwing himself at his feet, he entreated
his protection, assuring him that he had been guilty of no
murder, having just been dragged from a sound sleep, and
being even ignorant that a murder had been committed.

Inglesant took little notice of him, but the corpse interposed
between the man and the fantastic crew. It was still
apparently in a very bad humour, especially with Inglesant,
and said imperiously, — 'ewe have enough and too much of
this foolery. Have not some of you done enough mischief
for one night ? This gentleman says he is on the track of a
murderer, and will have it that he sees his traces in this unfortunate
affair."

At these words the masquers crowded round Inglesant
with wild and threatening gestures, apparently half earnest and
half the result of wine, and as many of them were armed \\'ith
great clubs, the consequences might have seemed doubtful to
one whose feelings were less excited than Inglesant's were.

He, however, as though the proceeding were a matter of
course, merely took off his hat, and addressed the others in
explanation.

I am indeed in pursuit of a murderer, the murderer of
my brother — a gallant and noble gentleman who was slain
foully in cold blood. The murderer was an Italian, his name
Malvolti. Do any of you, signori, happen to have heard of
such a man?"

There was a pause after this singular address, but the next
moment a demon of terrific aspect forced his way to the front,
saying in a tone of drunken consequence, —

"I knew him formerly at Lucca; he was well born and
my friend."

He was, and is, a scelerat and a coward," said Inglesant
fiercely. " It would be well to be more careful of your company,
sir."

Have I not said he was my friend, sir ?" cried the demon,
furious with passion. "Who will lend me a rapier?"

A silent and melancholy person, with the head of an owl,
who had several under his arm, immediately tendered him one
with a low bow, and the masquers fell back in a circle, while
the demon, drawing his weapon, threw himself into an attitude
and attacked Inglesant, who, after looking at him for a
moment, also drew his rapier and stood upon his guard. It
soon appeared that the demon was a very moderate fencer ;
in less than a minute his guard was entered by Inglesant's
irresistible tierce, and he would have been infallibly run
through the body had he not saved himself by rolling ignominiously
on the ground.

This incident appeared to restore the corpse to good
humour; it laughed, and turning to the masquers said, —

Gentlemen, let me beg of you to disperse as quickly as
possible before the day is any farther advanced. You know
of the rendezvous at one o'clock. I will see the authorities
as to this unhappy affair. Sir," he continued, turning to
Inglesant, " you are, I believe, the friend of Don Agostino di
Chili, whom he has been introducing into Florentine society ;
if it will amuse you to see a frolic of the Carnival carried out,
of which this is only the somewhat unfortunate rehearsal, and
will meet me this afternoon at two o'clock, at the Great Church
in the Via Large, I shall be happy to do my best to entertain
you; a simple domino will suffice. I am the Count Capece."

Inglesant gave his name in return. He apologized for not
accepting the Count's courtesy, on the plea of ill-health, but
assured him he would take advantage of his offer to cultivate
his acquaintance. They left the house together, the Count
covering himself with a cloak, and Inglesant accompanied him
to the office of police, from whence he went to his lodging
and to his bed.

He arose early in the afternoon, and remembering the
invitation he had received, he went out into the Via Large.
The streets formed a strange contrast to the stillness and calm
of the cool morning. The afternoon was hot, and the city
crowded with people of every class and rank. The balconies
and windows of the principal streets were full of ladies and
children ; trophies and embroideries hung from the houses
and crossed the street Strings of carriages and country carts,
dressed with flowers and branches of trees, paraded the streets.
Every variety of fantastic and grotesque costume, and every
shade of colour, filled and confused the eye. Music, laughter,
and loud talking filled the ear. Inglesant, from his simple
costume and grave demeanour, became the butt of several
noisy parties ; but used as he was to great crowds, and to the

confused revelries of Courts, he was able to disentangle himself
with mutual good-humour. He recognized his friends of
the morning, who were performing a kind of comedy on a
country cart, arched with boughs, in imitation of the oldest
form of the itinerant theatre. He was recognized by them
also, for, in a pause of the performance, as he was moving
do\sTi a bye-street, he was accosted by one of the company,
enveloped in a large cloak. He had no difficulty in recognizing
beneath this concealment his antagonist of the morning,
who still supported his character of demon.

I offer you my apologies for the occurrences of this morning,
signore," he said, " having been informed by my friends
more closely concerning them than I can myself recollect. I
am also deeply interested in the person of whom you spoke,
who formerly was a friend of mine ; and I must also have been
acquainted with the signore, your brother, of which I am the
more certain as your appearance every moment recalls him
more and more to my mind. I should esteem it a great
favour to be allowed to speak at large with you on these
matters. If you will allow me to pay my respects at your
lodgings, I will conduct you to my father's house, il Conte
Person di Salvo, where I can show you many things which
may be of interest to you respecting the man whom I understand
you seek."

Inglesant replied that he should gladly avail himself of his
society, and offered to come to the Count's house early the
next day.

He found the house, a sombre plain one, in a quiet street,
with a tall front pierced with few windows. At the low door
hung a wine-flask, as a sign that wine was sold within ; for the
sale of wine by retail was confined to the gentry, the common
people being only allowed to sell wholesale. The Count was
the fortunate possessor of a very fine vineyard, which made his
wine much in request, and Inglesant found the whole ground-floor

of his house devoted to this retail traffic. Having inquired
for the Count, he was led up the staircase into a vestibule,
and from thence into the Count's own room. This was
a large apartment with windows looking on to the court, with
a suite of rooms opening beyond it. It was handsomely furnished,
with several cages full of singing birds in the windows.
Outside, the walls of the houses forming the courtyard were
covered with vines and creeping jessamine and other plants,
and a fountain splashed in the centre of the court, which was
covered with a coloured awning.

The old Count received Inglesant politely. He was a tall,
spare old man, with a reserved and dignified manner, more
like that of a Spaniard than of an Italian. Rather to Inglesant's
surprise he introduced him to his daughter, on whom,
as she sat near one of the windows, Inglesant's eyes had been
fixed from the moment he had entered the room. The Italians
were so careful of the ladies of their families, and it was so
unusual to allow strangers to see them, that his surprise was
not unnatural, especially as the young lady before him was
remarkably beautiful. She was apparently very young, tall
and dark-eyed, with a haughty and indifferent manner, which
concentrated itself entirely upon her father.

The Count noticed Inglesant's surprise at the cordiality of
his reception, and seemed to speak as if in explanation.

*' You are no stranger to us, signore," he said ; " my son
has not only commended you to me, but your intimacy with
Count Agostino has endeared you already to us who admire
and love him."

As Agostino had told him the evening before that he knew
little of these people, though he believed the old Count to be
respectable, this rather increased Inglesant's surprise; but he
merely said that he was fortunate in possessing a friend whose
favour procured him such advantages.

My son's affairs," continued the old man, " unavoidably

took him abroad this morning, but I wait his return every
moment."

Inglesant suspected that the Cavaliere, who appeared to
him to be a complete debauchee, had not been at home at all
that night ; but if that were the case, when he entered the
room a few moments afterwards, his manner was completely
self-possessed and quiet, and showed no signs of a night of
revelry.

As soon as they were seated the Cavaliere began to explain
to Inglesant that both his father and himself were anxious to
see him, to confer respecting the unfortunate circumstances
which, as they imagined, had brought him to Italy upon a
mission which they assured him was madly imprudent.

"Our nation, signore," said the Cavaliere, "is notorious
for two passions — jealousy and revenge. Both of these, combined
with self-interest, induced Malvolti to commit the foul
deed which he perpetrated upon your brother. While in Italy
your brother crossed him in some of his amours, and also resented
some indiscretions, which the manners of our nation
regard with tolerance, but which your discreet countrymen
resent with unappeasable disgust. Our people never forgive
injuries; nay, they entail them on their posterity. We ourselves
left our native city, Lucca, on account of one of these feuds,
which made it unsafe for us to remain ; and I could show you
a gentleman's house in Lucca whose master has never set foot
out of doors for nine years, nay, scarcely looked out of window,
for fear of being shot by an antagonist who has several times
planted ambushes to take away his life. It is considered a
disgrace to a family that one of its members has forgiven an
injury ; and a mother will keep the bloody clothes of her murdered
husband, to incite her young sons to acts of vengeance.
You will see, signore, the evil which such ideas as these winds
about our lives ; and how unwise it must be in a stranger to
involve himself needlessly in such an intrigue, in a foreign

JOHN INGLESANT ; [chap. i.

country, unknown and comparatively without friends. Italy
swarms with bravos hired to do the work of vengeance ; merchants
are assaulted in their warehouses in open day ; in the
public streets the highest personages in the land are not safe.
What will be the fate then of a stranger whose death is necessary
to the safety of an Italian?"

I understand you, signore," said Inglesant, " and I thank
you for your good-will, but you are somewhat mistaken. I
am not seeking the man of whom we speak, though, I confess,
I came to Italy partly with the expectation of meeting him,
when it is the will of God, or the will of the Devil whom He
permits to influence the affairs of men, that this man and I
should meet. I shall not attempt to avoid the interview; it
would be useless if I did. The result of that meeting who
can tell ! But as I said yesterday to the Count Capece, till
my hour comes I bear a charmed life that cannot be taken,
and any result I regard with supreme indifference, if so be I
may, by any means, escape in the end the snares of the Devil,
who seeks to take me captive at his will"

The two gentlemen regarded Inglesant with profound
astonishment as he uttered these words ; and the young lady
in the window raised her eyes towards him as he was speaking
(he spoke very pure Italian) with some appearance of interest.
After a pause Inglesant went on, " I also venture to think,
signore," he said, "that you are unaware of the position of
this man, and of the condition to which his crimes have
brought him. I am well informed from sure sources that he
is without friends, and that his crimes have raised him more
enemies in this country even than elsewhere ; so that he is
afraid to appear openly, lest he fall a victim to his own
countrymen. He is also in abject poverty, and is therefore to
a great extent powerless to do evil."

The CavaUere smiled. " You do not altogether know this
country, signore," he said; "there are always so many different

25'

factions and interests at work that a daring useful man is never
without patrons, who will support and further his private interests
in return for the service he may render them; and (though
you may not be fully aware of it) it is because it is notorious
that you are yourself supported and protected by a most
powerful and widely spread faction, that your position in this
country is as assured and safe as it is."

His words certainly struck Inglesant. The idea that he
was already a known and marked man in this wonderful
country, and playing an acknowledged part in its fantastic
drama, was new to him, and he remained silent.

From all ordinary antagonists," continued the Cavaliere,
this knowledge is sufficient to secure you ; no man would
wish, unless ruined and desperate, to draw on his head the
swift and certain punishment which a hand raised against your
life would be sure to invoke. But a reckless despairing man
stops at nothing; and should you, by your presence even,
endanger this man's standing in the favour of some new-found
patron, or impede the success of some freshly planned scheme
perhaps the last hope of his ruined life — I would not buy
your safety at an hour's rate."

"While the Cavaliere was speaking it was evident that his
sister was listening with great attention. The interest that she
manifested, and the singular attraction that Inglesant felt towards
her, so occupied his thoughts that he could scarcely
attend to what the other was saying, though he continued
speaking for some time. It is possible that the Cavaliere
noticed this, for Inglesant was suddenly conscious that he was
regarding him fixedly and with a peculiar expression. He
apologized for his inattention on the ground of ill-health, and
soon after took his leave, having invited the Cavaliere to visit
him at his lodgings.

As Inglesant walked back through the streets of the city,
he was perplexed at his own sensations, which appeared so

different from any he had previously known. The attraction
he experienced towards the lady he had just seen was quite
different from the affection he had felt for Mary Collet. That
was a sentiment which commended itself to his reason and
his highest feelings. In her company he felt himself soothed,
elevated above himself, safe from danger and from temptation.
In this latter attraction he was conscious of a half-formed fear,
of a sense of glamour and peril, and of an alluring force independent
of his own free-will. The opinion he had formed of
her brother's character may have had something to do with
these feelings, and the sense of perpetual danger and insecurity
with which he walked this land of mystery and intrigue no
doubt increased it. He half resolved not to visit the old nobleman
again ; but even while forming the resolution he knew that
he should break it.

The circumstances in which he was placed, indeed, almost
precluded such a course. The very remarkable beauty of the
young lady, and the extraordinary unreserve with which he had
been introduced to her — unreserve so unusual in Italy — while
it might increase the misgiving he felt, made it very difficult for
him to decline the acquaintance. The girl's beauty was of a
kind unusual in Italy, though not unknown there, her hair being
of a light brown, contrasting with her magnificent eyes, which
were of the true Italian splendour and brilliancy. She had
doubtless been kept in the strictest seclusion, and Inglesant
could only wonder what could have induced the old Count to
depart from his usual caution.

The next day, being Ash Wednesday, Inglesant was present
at the Duomo at the ceremony of the day, when the vast congregation
received the emblematic ashes upon their foreheads.
The Cavaliere was also present with his sister, whose name
Inglesant discovered to be Lauretta. Don Agostino, to whom
Inglesant had related the adventure, and the acquaintance to
which it had led, was inclined to suspect these people of some

evil purpose, and made what inquiries he could concerning
them ; but he could discover nothing to their discredit, further
than that the Cavaliere was a well-known debauchee, and that
he had been involved in some intrigue, in connection with
some of the present Papal family, which had not proved successful.
He was in consequence then in disgrace with Donna
Olympia and her faction, — a disappointment which it was
said had rendered his fortunes very desperate, as he was very
deeply involved in debts of all kinds. Don Agostino, the
Carnival being over, was desirous of returning to Sienna, unless
Inglesant made up his mind to go at once to Venice, in
which case he offered to accompany him. His friend, however,
did not appear at all desirous of quitting Florence, at any
rate hastily, and Don Agostino left him and returned home,
the two friends agreeing to meet again before proceeding to
Venice.

His companion gone, Inglesant employed himself in frequenting
all those churches to which Lauretta was in the habit
of resorting during the Holy Season ; and as every facility appeared
to be given him by her friends, he became very intimate
with her, and she on her part testified no disinclination to his
society. It will probably occur to the reader that this conduct
was not consistent with the cautious demeanour which
Inglesant had resolved upon ; but such resolutions have before
now proved ineffectual under similar circumstances, and doubtless
the like will occur again. Lauretta looked round as a
matter of course, as she came out of the particular church she
had that day chosen, for the handsome cavalier who was certain
to be ready to offer the drop of holy water ; and more than one
rival whom the beautiful devotee had attracted to the service,
noticed with envy the kindly look of the masked eyes which
acknowledged the courtesy ; and, indeed, it is not often that
ladies' eyes have rested upon a lover more attractive to a girl
of a refined nature than did Lauretta's, when, in the dawn of

the March mornings, she saw John Inglesant waiting for heron
the marble steps. It is true that she thought the CavaHere
Angles somewhat melancholy and sad, but her own disposition
was reserved and pensive; and in her presence Inglesant's
melancholy was so far charmed away that it became only an
added grace of sweetness of manner, and of tender deference
and protection. The servant of the polished King of England,
the companion of Falkland and of Carnarvon, the French
Princess's favourite page, trained in every art that makes life
attractive, that makes life itself the finest art, with a memory
and intellect stored with the poetry and learning of the antique
world, — it would have been strange if, where once his fancy
was touched, Inglesant had not made a finished and attractive
lover.

The familiar streets of Florence, the bridges, or the walks
by the Arno, assumed a new charm to the young girl, when
she saw them in company with her pleasant and courteous
friend ; and whether in the early morning it was a few spring
flowers that he brought her, or a brilliant jewel that he placed
upon her finger as he parted in the soft Italian night, it was
the giver, and the grace with which the gift was made, that
won the romantic fancy of the daughter of the south. Their
talk was not of the kind that lovers often use. He would
indeed begin with relating stories of the English Court, in the
bright fleeting days before the war, of the courtly refined
revels, of the stately dances and plays, and of the boating
parties on the wooded Thames ; but most often the narrative
changed its tone instinctively, and went on to speak of sadder
and higher things ; of self-denial and devotion of ladies and
children, who suffered for their King without complaint; of
the Ferrara and their holy life j of the martyred Archbishop and
of the King's death ; and sometimes perhaps of some sight of
battle and suffering the narrator himself had seen, as when
the evening sun was shining upon the glassy slope of Newbury,

and he knelt beside the dying Carnarvon, unmindful
of the bullets that fell around.

You have deserve-ed well of the King," he whispered :
have you no request that I may make to him, nothing for
your children, or your wife?"

And with his eyes fixed upon the western horizon the Earl
replied, —

No, I will go hence with no request upon my lips but to
the King of kings."

How all this pleasant dalliance would have terminated,
had it continued, wee have no means of knowing, for a sudden
and unexpected end was put to it, at any rate for a time.

Easter was over, and the Cavaliere had invited Inglesant
to join in a small party to spend a day or two at his vineyard
and country house among the Apennines, assuring him that
at that time of the year the valleys and hill-slopes were very
delightful.

The evening before the day on which the little company
was to start, Inglesant had an engagement at one of the
theatres in Florence, where a comedy or pantomime was being
performed. The comedies in Italy at this time were paltry
in character in everything except the music, which was very
good. Inglesant accompanied a Signore Gabriotto, a violin
player, who was engaged at the theatre, and of whom Inglesant
had taken lessons, and with whom he had become intimate.
This man was not only an admirable performer on the violin,
but was a man of cultivation and taste. He had given much
study to the music of the ancients, and especially to their
musical instruments, as they are to be seen in the hands of
the Apollos, muses, fauns, satyrs, bacchanals, and shepherds
of the classic sculptors. As they walked through the streets
in the evening sunlight, he favoured his companion, whom he
greatly admired as an excellent listener, with a long discourse
on this subject, showing how useful such an inquiry was, not

only to obtain a right notion of the ancient music, but also to
help us to obtain pleasant instruments if possible than those
at present in use.

Not, signore," he said, " that I think we have much to
learn from the ancients ; for if we are to judge their instruments
by the appearance they make in marble, there is not one that
is comparable to our violins ; for they seem, as far as I can
make out, all to have been played on either by the bare fingers
or the plectrum, so that they could not add length to their
notes, nor could they vary them by that insensible swelling
and dying away of sound upon the same string which gives so
wonderful a sweetness to our modern music. And as far as I
can see, their stringed instruments must have had very low
and feeble voices from the small proportion of v/ood used
(though it is difficult to judge of this, seeing that all our
examples are represented in marble), which would prevent the
instruments containing sufficient air to render the strokes full
or sonorous. Now my violin," continued the Italian with
enthusiasm, " does not speak only with the strings, it speaks
all over, as though it were a living creature that was all voice,
or, as is really the case, as though it were full of sound."

You have a wonderful advantage," said Inglesant, " you
Italians, that is, in the cultivation of the art of Hfe ; for you
have the unbroken tradition, and habit and tone of mind,
from the old world of pleasure and art — a world that took the
pleasures of life boldly, and had no conscience to prevent its
cultivating and enjoying them to the full. But I must say
that you have not, to my mind, improved during the lapse of
centuries, nor is the comedy we shall see to-night what might
be expected of a people who are the descendants of the old
Italians who applauded Terence."

The comedy to-night," said the Italian, " would be nothing
without the music, the acting is a mere pretence."

"The comedy itself," said Inglesant, "would be intolerable

but for the buffoons, and the people show their sense in
demanding that place shall be found in every piece for these
worthies. The play itself is stilted and unreal, but there is
always something of irony and wit in these characters, which
men have found full of satire and humour for four thousand
years : Harlequin the reckless fantastic youth, Pantaleone the
poor old worn-out ' Senex,' and Coniello the rogue. In their
absurd impertinences, in their impossible combinations, in
their mistakes and tumbles, in their falling over queens and
running up against monarchs, men have always seemed to see
some careless, light-hearted, half-indifferent sarcasm and satire
upon their own existence."

When they reached the theatre, the slant rays of the setting
sun where shining between the lofty houses, and many people
were standing about the doors. Inglesant accompanied the
violinist to the door of the playhouse, and took his place near
the orchestra, at either end of which were steps leading up onto
the stage. The evening sunlight penetrated into the house
through Venetian blinds, lighting up the fittings and the audience
with a sort of mystic haze. The sides of the stage were
crowded with gentlemen, some standing, others sitting on small
stools. Many of the audience were standing, the rest seated on
benches. The part occupied in modern theatres by the boxes
was furnished with raised seats, on which ladies and people of
distinction were accommodated. There was no gallery.

As the first bars of the overture struck upon Inglesant's
ear, with a long-drawn tremor of the bass viols and a shrill
plaintive note of the treble violins, an irresistible sense of
loneliness and desolation and a strange awe crept over him
and weighed do\\Ti his spirits. As the fantastic music continued,
in which gaiety and sadness were mysteriously mingled,
the reverberation seemed to excite each moment a clearer perception
of those paths of intrigue and of danger in which he
seemed to walk. The uneasy sentiment which accompanied,

he knew not why, his attachment to Lauretta, and the insidious
friendship of the Cavaliere, the sense of insecurity which followed
his footsteps in this land of dark and sinful deeds, passed
before his mind. It seemed to his excited fancy at that
moment that the end was drawing very near, and amid the
fascination of the lovely music he seemed to await the note
of the huntsman's horn which would announce that the toils
were set, and that the chase was up. From, the kind of trance
in which he stood he was aroused by hearing a voice, distinct
to his ear and perfectly audible, though apparently at some
considerable distance, say —

Who is that man by the curtain, in black satin, with the
Point de Venice lace?"

And another voice, equally clear, answered, " His name is
Inglesant, an agent of the Society of the Jesu."

Inglesant turned; but, amid the crowd of faces behind
him, he could discern nothing that indicated the speakers, nor
did any one else seem to have noticed anything unusual. The
next moment the music ceased, and with a scream of laughter
Harlequin bounded on the stage, followed by Pantaleone in an
eager and tottering step, and after them a wild rout of figures,
of all orders and classes, who flitted across the stage amid the
applause of the people, and suddenly disappeared ; while Harlequin
and Pantaleone as suddenly reappearing, began a lively
dialogue, accompanied by a quick movement of the violins.
As Inglesant took his eyes off the stage for a moment, they
fell on the figure of a man standing on the flight of steps at
the farther end of the orchestra, who regarded him with a fixed
and scrutinizing gaze. It was a tall and dark man, whose
expression would have been concealed from Inglesant but for
the fiery brilliancy of his eyes. Inglesant's glance met his as
in a dream, and remained fixed as though fascinated, at which
the gaze of the other became, if possible, more intense, as
though he too were spell-bound and unable to turn away. At

this moment the dialogue on the stage ceased, and a girl
advanced to the footlights with a song, accompanied by the
band in an air adapted from the overture, and containing a
repetition of the opening bars. The association of sound broke
the spell, and Inglesant turned his eyes upon the singer ; when
he looked again his strange examiner was gone.

The girl who was singing was a Roman, reputed the best
treble singer then in Italy. The sun by this time was set, and
the short twilight over. The theatre was sparsely lighted by
candles, nearly the whole of the available light being concentrated
upon the stage. This arrangement produced striking
effects of light and shade, more pleasing than are the brilliantly
lighted theatres of modern days. The figures on the stage came
forward into full and clear view, and faded again into obscurity
in a mysterious way very favourable to romantic illusion, and
the theatrical arrangements were not seen too clearly. The
house itself was shadowy, and the audience unreal and unsubstantial;
the whole scene wore an aspect of glamour and
romance wanting at the present day.

"Wien the girl's song was over there was a movement among
the gentlemen on the stage, several coming down into the
house. Inglesant took advantage of this, and went up on the
stage, from which he might hope to see something of the
stranger who had been watching him so closely, if he were
still in the theatre.

Several of the actors who were waiting for their turn mingled
with the gentlemen, talking to their acquaintance. The strange
light thrown on the centre of the stage in which two or three
figures were standing, the multitude of dark forms in the
surrounding shadow, the dim recesses of the theatre itself full
of figures, the exquisite music, now soft and plaintive, anon gay
and dance-like, then solemn and melancholy, formed a singular
and attractive whole. Lauretta had declined to come that
night, but Inglesant thought it was not improbable that the

VOL. II. D

Cavaliere would be there, and he was curious to see whether
he could detect him in company with the mysterious stranger.
From the moment that he had heard the distant voice inquiring
his name, the familiar idea had again occurred to his mind that
this could be none other than the murderer of his brother, of
whom he was in search ; but this thought had occurred so
often, and in connection with so many persons, that had it not
been for the fixed and peculiar glance with which the stranger
had regarded him, he would have thought little of it. He was,
however, unable to distinguish either of the persons of whom
he was in search from the crowd that filled the theatre; and his
attention was so much diverted by the constantly changing
scene before him that he soon ceased to attempt to do so.
At that moment the opening movement of the overture was
again repeated by the band, and was made the theme of an
elaborate variation, in which the melancholy idea of the music
was rendered in every variety of shade by the plaintive violins.
Every phase of sorrow, every form and semblance of grief that
Inglesant had ever known, seemed to float through his mind,
in sympathy with the sounds which, inarticulate to the ear,
possessed a power stronger than that of language to the mental
sense. The anticipation of coming evil naturally connected
itself with the person of Lauretta, and he seemed to see her
lying dead before him upon the lighted stage, or standing in
an attitude of grief, looking at him with wistful eyes. This last
image was so strongly presented to his imagination that it partook
almost of the character of an apparition ; and before it the
crowded theatre, the gaily dressed forms upon the stage, the
fantastic actors, seemed to fade, and alone on the deserted
boards the figure of Lauretta, as he had last seen it, slight and
girl-like, yet of noble bearing, stood gazing at him with wild
and apprehensive eyes. Curiously too, as his fancy dwelt
upon this figure, it saw in her hand a sealed letter fastened
with a peculiarly twisted cord.

The burden of sorrow and of anticipated evil became at
last too heavy to be borne, and Inglesant left the theatre and
retired to his lodgings. But here he could not rest Though
he had no reason to visit the Count that night, and though
it was scarcely seemly, indeed, that he should do so, yet, impelled
by a restless discomfort which he sought to quiet, he
wandered again into the streets, and found himself not unnaturally
before the old nobleman's dwelling. Once here, the
impulse was too strong to be denied, and he knocked at the
low sunken door. The house seemed strangely quiet and
deserted, and it was some time before an old servant who
belonged to the lower part of the establishment, devoted to
the sale of the wine, appeared at the wicket, and, on being
assured whom it was 1H10 knocked at that unseasonable hour,
opened the door.

The house was empty, he averred. The emily had suddenly
departed, whither he knew not If the signore was pleased to
go upstairs, he believed he would find some letters for him left
by the Cavaliere.

Inglesant followed the old man, who carried a common
brass lamp, which cast an uncertain and flickering glare, the
sense of evil growing stronger at every step he took. His
guide led him into the room in which he had first seen
Lauretta, which appeared bare and deserted, but showed no
sign of hasty departure. Upon a marble table inlaid with
coloured stones were two letters, both directed to Inglesant
The one was fi-om the Cavaliere, excusing their departure on
the ground of sudden business of the highest political importance,
the other fi-om Lauretta, written in a hasty trembling
hand. It contained but a few lines — " that she was obliged
to follow her father ; " but Inglesant hesitated a moment before
he broke the seal, for it was tied round with a curiously twisted
cord of blue and yellow silk, as he had seen in the vision his
excited fancy had created.

CHAPTER II.

Laureate's letter had informed Inglesant that she
would endeavour to let him know where she was ; and
with that hope he was obliged to be content, as by no effort
he could make could he discover any trace of the fugitive's
route. Florence, however, became distasteful to him, and he
would have left it sooner but for an attack of fever which
prostrated him for some time. Few foreigners were long in
Italy, in those days, without suffering from the climate and the
miasmas and unhealthy vapours, which, especially at night,
were so hurtful even to those accustomed to the country. In
his illness Inglesant was carefully nursed by some of the Jesuit
fathers, and those whom they recommended ; and it is possible
that they took care that he should not be left too much to the
care of the physicians, whose attentions, at that period at any
rate, were so often fatal to their patients. In the course of a
few weeks he was sufficiently recovered to think of leaving
Florence, and he despatched a messenger to Don Agostino,
begging him to meet him at Lucca, where they might decide
either to visit Venice or go on straight to Rome. It was not
without some lingering hope that he might find Lauretta in
the town of her birth, that he set out for Lucca, but misfortune
followed his path. It was reported that the plague had broken
out in Florence, and travellers who were known to have come
from thence were regarded with great suspicion. Inglesant's
appearance, recently recovered from sickness, was not in his
favour ; and at Fucecchio, a small town on the road to Lucca,

he was arrested by the authorities, and confined by them in the
pest-house for forty days. It was a building which had formerly
been a gentleman's house, and possessed a small garden
surrounded by a high wall. In this dreary abode Inglesant
passed many solitary days, the other inmates being three or
four unfortunates like himself, — travellers on business through
the country, — who, their affairs being injured by their detention,
were melancholy and despondent. He was short of money,
and for some time was unable to communicate with any of his
friends either in Florence or Sienna. With nothing but his
own misfortunes to brood upon, and with the apprehension of
the future, which almost amounted to religious melancholy,
frequently before his mind, it is surprising that he kept his
reason. To add to his misfortunes, when the greater portion
of the time fixed for his detention was expired, one of the inmates
of the pest-house suddenly died; and although the
physicians pronounced his disease not to be the plague, yet
the authorities decreed that all should remain another forty
days within its dreary walls. The death of this person greatly
affected Inglesant, as he was the only one of the inmates with
whom he had contracted any intimacy.

During the first part of his sojourn here, there was brought
to the house, as an inmate, a wandering minstrel, who, the
first evening of his stay, attracted the whole of the gloomy
society around him by his playing. He played upon a small
and curiously shaped instrument called a vielle, somewhat like
a child's toy, with four strings, and a kind of small wheel instead
of a bow. It was commonly used by blind men and beggars
in the streets, and was considered a contemptible instrument,
though some of these itinerant performers attained to such
skill upon it that they could make their hearers laugh and
dance, and it was said even weep, as they stood around them
in the crowded streets. Inglesant soon perceived that the
man was no contemptible musician, and after his performance

was over he entered into conversation with him, asking him
why he, who could play so well, was content with so poor an
instrument. The man, who appeared to have a great deal of
intelligence and humour, said that he was addicted to a wandering
and unsettled life, among the poorer and disorderly
classes in the low quarters of cities, in mountain villages, and
in remote hostelries and forest inns ; that the possession of a
valuable viol, or other instrument, even it he should practice
sufficient self-denial to enable him to save money to purchase
such a one, would be a constant anxiety to him, and a source
of danger among the wild companions with whom he often associated.
" Besides, signore," he said, " I am attached to this
poor little friend of mine, who will speak to me though to none
else. I have learnt the secrets of its heart, and by what means
it may be made to discourse eloquently of human life. You
may despise my instrument, but I can assure you it is far
superior to the guitar, though that is so high bred and genteel
a gentleman, found in all romances and ladies' bowers.
For any music that depends upon the touch of a string, and
is limited in the duration of the distinct sounds, is far inferior
to this little fellow's voice."

"You seemed trained to the profession of music," said
Inglesant.

*' I was serving-lad to an old musician in Rome, who not
only played on several instruments, but gave a great deal of
time to the study of the science of harmony, and of the mysteries
of music. He was fond of me, and taught me the violas
I was apt to learn."

I have heard of musicians," said Inglesant, " who have
written on the philosophy of sound. He was doubtless one
of them."

"There are things concerning musical instruments," said
the man, " very wonderful ; such as the laws concerning the
octaves of flutes, which, make them how you will, you can

never alter, and which show how the principles of harmony
prevail in the dead things of the world, which we think so
blockish and stupid ; and what is more wonderful still, the
passions of men's souls, which are so wild and untamable, are
all ruled and kept in a strict measure and mean, for they are
all concerned in and wrought upon by music. And what can be
more wonderful than that a maestro in the art can take delight
in sound, though he does not hear it ; and when he looks at
some black marks upon paper, he hears intellectually, and
by the power of the soul alone ? "

You speak so well of these things," said Inglesant, '' that
I wonder you are content to wander about the world at village
fairs and country weddings, and do not rather establish yourself
in some great town, where you might follow your genius
and earn a competence and fame."

I have already told you," replied the man, " that I am
wedded to this kind of life ; and if you could accompany me
for some months, with your viol d'amore, across the mountains,
and through the deep valleys, and into the old towns where
no travellers ever come, and where all stands still from century
to century, you would never leave it, any more than I shall.
I could tell you of many strange sights I have witnessed, and
if we stay long in this place, perhaps you will be glad to hear
some tales to while away the time."

You spoke but now," said Inglesant, " of the power that
music has over the passions of men. I should like to hear
somewhat more of this,"

I will tell you a curious tale of that also," said the man.

THE VIELLE-PLAYER's STORY.

Some twenty-five years ago there lived in Rome two
friends, who were both musicians, and greatly attached to each
other. The elder, whose name was Giacomo Andria, was

maestro di capella of one of the churches, the other was an
accomplished lutinist and singer. The elder was a cavaliers
and a man of rank ; the younger of respectable parentage, of
the name of Vanneo. The style of music in which each was
engaged was sufficiently different to allow of much friendly
contention ; and many lively debates took place as to the
respective merits of ' Sonate da Chest ' and ' Sonate da
Camera.' Their respective instruments also afforded ground
for friendly dispute. Vanneo was very desirous that his friend
should introduce viols and other instruments into the service,
in concert with the voices, in the Church in which Vanneo
himself sang in the choir ; but the Cavaliere, who considered
this a practice derived from the theatre, refused to avail himself
of any instrument save the organ. Vanneo was more
successful in inducing his friend to practice upon his favourite
instrument the lute, though Andria pretended at first to despise
it as a ladies' toy, and liable to injure the shape of the performer.
His friend, however, though devoted to secular
music, brought to the performance and composition of it so
much taste and correct feeling, that Andria was ravished in
spite of himself, and of his preference to the solemn music of
the Church. Vanneo excelled in contrasting melancholy and
pensive music with bright and lively cords, mingling weeping
and laughter in some of the sweetest melodies that imagination
ever suggested. He accompanied his own voice on the lute,
or he composed pieces for a single voice with accompaniment
for violins. In a word, he won his friend over to this grave
chamber music, in some respects more pathetic and serious
than the more monotonous masses and sonatas of the Church
composers. Vanneo composed expressly for this purpose
fantasies on the chamber organ, interposed, now and then,
with stately and sweet dance music, such as Pains (so named
from the walk of a peacock) Apennines, and other delightful
airs, upon the violins and lute. In these fancies he blended,

as it were, pathetic stories, gay festivities, and sublime and
subtle ideas, all appealing to the secret and intellectual faculties,
so that the music became not only an exponent of Use
but a divine influence. After these delightful meetings had
continued for several years, circumstances obliged Vanneo to
accompany a patron to France, and from thence he went over
into England, to the great King of that nation, as one of his
private musicians ; for the Queen of England was a French
Princess, and was fond of the lute. His departure was a
great grief to the Cavaliere, who devoted himself more than
ever to Church music and to the offices of religion. He was
a man of very devout temper, and was distinguished for his
benevolent disposition, and especially for his compassion for
the poor, whom he daily relieved in crowds at his own door,
and in the prisons of Rome, which he daily visited. From
time to time he heard from his friend, to whom he continued
strongly attached."

I was brought up at the English Court," said Inglesant,
and have been trying to recall such a man, but cannot recollect
the name you mention, though I remember several lutinists
and Italians."

I tell the story as I heard it," replied the other. " The
man may have changed his name in a foreign country. One
day the Cavaliere had received a letter from his friend, brought
to him by some English gentleman traveling to Rome. Having
read it, and spent some time with the recollections that its
perusal suggested to his mind, he set himself to the work in
which he was engaged — the composition of a motet for some
approaching festival of the Church ; but although he attempted
to fix his mind upon his occupation, and was very anxious to
finish his work, he found himself unable to do so. The remembrance
of his friend took complete possession of his mind ;
and his imagination, instead of dwelling on the solemn music
of the motet, wandered perversely into the alluring world of

phantasies melody which Vanneo had composed. Those sad
and pensive adagios, passing imperceptibly into the light gaiety
of a festival, never seemed so delightful as at that moment.
He rose from time to time, and walked to and fro in his
chamber, and as he did so he involuntarily took up a lute
which Vanneo had left with him as a parting gift, and which
always lay within reach. As he carelessly touched the strings,
something of his friend's spirit seemed to have inspired him,
and the lute breathed again with something of the old familiar
charm. Each time that he took it up, the notes formed themselves
again under his hand into the same melody, and at last
he took up a sheet of paper, intended for the motet, and scored
down the air he had involuntarily composed. His fancy being
pleased with the occurrence, he elaborated it into a lesson,
and showed it to several of his associates. He gave it the
name of ' gli amici,' and it became very popular among the
masters in Rome as a lesson for their pupils on the lute.
x\mong those who thus learnt it was a youth who afterwards
became page to a Florentine gentleman, one Bernard Gascon,
who went into England and took service under the King of
that country, who, as you doubtless know better than I do,
was at war with his people."

I know the Cavaliere Guasconi," said Inglesant, " and
saw him lately in Florence, where he is training running horses
for the Grand Duke."

"This war," continued the man, "appears to have been the
ruin of Vanneo ; for the English people, besides hating their
King, took to hating all kinds of music, and all churches and
choristers. Vanneo lost his place as one of the King's musicians,
and not being able to earn his living by teaching music
where so few cared to learn, he was forced to enlist as a soldier
in one of the King's armies, and was several times near losing
his life. He escaped these dangers, however ; but the army in
which he served being defeated and dispersed, he wandered

about the country, wounded, and suffering from sickness and
want of food. He supported himself miserably, partly by
charity, especially among the Loyalist families, and partly by
giving singing lessons to such as desired them. He was without
friends, or any means of procuring money to enable him
to return to Italy. As he was walking in this manner one
day in the streets of London, without any hope, and with
scarcely any life, he heard the sound of music. It was long
since the melody of a lute, once so familiar, had fallen on
his ear ; and as he stopped to Hasten, the notes came to him
through the thick moist air like an angelic and divine murmur
from another world. The music seemed to come from a small
room on the ground-floor of a poor inn, and Vanneo opened
the door and went in. He found a young man, plainly dressed,
playing on a double-necked theorbo-lute, which, from the
number of its strings, enables, as you know, the skilful lutinist
to play part music, with all the varieties of fugues and other
graces and ornaments of the Italian manner. The piece which
the young man was playing consisted of an allegro and yet
sweet movement on the tenor strings, with a sustained harmony
in thorough bass. The melody, being carefully distributed
through the parts, spoke to Vanneo of gaiety and cheerfulness,
as of his old Italian life, strangely combined at the same time
with a soothing and pathetic melancholy, like a corpse carried
through the streets of a gay city, strewn with flowers and accompanied
with tapers and singing of boys. The whole piece
finished with a pastorale, or strain of low and sweet notes. As
Vanneo listened he was transported out of himself It was not
alone the beauty of the music which ravished him, but he was
conscious that a mysterious presence, as of his friend the
Cavaliere, was with him, and that at last the perfect sympathy
which he had sought so long was established ; and that in the
music he had heard a common existence and sphere of life was
at last created, in which they both lived, not any longer separate

from each other, but enjoying as it were one common being of
melody and ecstatic life of sound. When the music ceased
Vanneo accosted the lutinist, and inquired the name of the
composer; but this the young man could not tell him. He
only knew it was a favourite lesson for skilful pupils among the
music-masters in Rome, and as such he had learnt it Vanneo
was confident the piece had been written by Andria, and by
none other, and told the young man so. By this time they had
discovered that they were fellow-countrymen, and the lutinist
sent for refreshments, of which Vanneo stood very much in need.
He also told him that his name was Scacchi, and that he was
page to the Signore Bernard Guasconi, who was then in arms
for the King, and was besieged in some town of which I have
forgotten the English name."

It was Colchester," said Inglesant ; " I was in prison at
the time of the siege ; but I know the history of it and its sad
ending."

Becoming very familiar with Vanneo, he advised him to
accompany him to Colchester. His master, he said, would
doubtless be set at Liberty immediately as a foreigner and a
friend of the Grand Duke's, and he could accompany him
home to Italy as a domestic. As no better prospect was open
to Vanneo of returning to his native country, he gladly accepted
the page's offer, and agreed to accompany him next day. The
besiegers of the town which you call Colchester were engaging
persons from all parts of the country to work their trenches,
and the town not being far from London, many persons went
from that place to earn the wages offered. Many of the
Loyalists also took advantage of this pretext, intending to join
the besieged if a favourable opportunity offered. To one of
these parties Vanneo and the page joined themselves. You
may wonder that I know so much of these matters, but I have
heard the story several times repeated by the page himself
The weather was very cold and wet, and the companions underwent

much hardship on their march. They travelled through
a flat and marshy country, full of woods and groves of trees,
and crossed with dykes and streams. Vanneo, however, who
had endured so much privation and suffering, began to sink
under his fatigues. After travelling for more than two days
they arrived at the leaguer. They were told that the besieged
were expected every day to surrender at discretion ; but they
were sent into the trenches with several other volunteers to
relieve those already there, many of whom were exhausted with
the work, and were deserting. As they arrived at the extreme
limit of the lines the besiegers had planted four great pieces
of battering cannon against the town, and fired great shot all
the forenoon, without, however, doing much damage. The
Royalists mustered all their troops upon the line, intending,
as it afterwards appeared, to break out at night and force their
way through the leaguer. The lines were so close that the
soldiers could throw stones at each other as they lay in the
trenches ; and Vanneo and the page could see the King's
officers plainly upon the city walls. The Royalists did not
fire, being short of ammunition, and in the night a mutiny took
place among some of the foot-soldiers, which prevented the
project of cutting their way out from taking effect. The
soldiers of both annie were now already mixed on many places
upon the line, and no fire was given on either side, as though
the Royalists were already prisoners. The page left Vanneo,
who was worn-out and ill, and easily made his way into the
town, where he found his master. When he returned to the
trenches he found Vanneo very ill, and a physician with him,
a doctor of the to\\Ti, named Gibson, as I remember, who told
the page that he thought his companion was dying. Vanneo,
in fact, appeared to be insensible, his eyes were closed, and
he was perfectly pale. He lay in a small house, just within
the lines, which had been deserted by its inhabitants, who were
weavers. The gentlemen were under arrest in the town, and

it was reported that several were to be immediately shot,
of whom it was whispered the Signore Guasconi was to be
one. About two in the afternoon the general of the besieging
army entered the town, and a great rabble of the soldiers with
him. The latter broke into many houses to search for plunder,
and among them into that in which Vanneo was lying. As
they came into the room and saw the dying man, they stopped
and began to question the page as to who he was. Before he
could reply Vanneo opened his eyes with a smile, raised himself
suddenly from the straw on which . he lay, and, stretching
out his hand eagerly as one who welcomes a friend, exclaimed
in Italian, ' Cavaliere, the consonance is complete ;' and having
said this he fell back upon the straw again, and, the smile still
upon his face, he died."

The musician stopped a moment, and then glancing at
Inglesant with a curious look said, " It is confidently said that
about that very moment the Cavaliere Andria died at Rome ;
at any rate when the page returned to Italy and inquired for
him at Rome, he was dead. He caught a fever in one of his
visits to the prisons, and died in a few days."

Did the page tell you of the two gentlemen who were
shot at Colchester?" said Inglesant.

Yes, he told me that Guasconi stood by with his doublet
off expecting his turn ; but when the others were shot he was
taken back to his prison. They only found out he was an
Italian by his asking leave to write to the Grand Duke."

I have been told," he continued, " that this poor King
was a great lover of music, and played the bass viol himself"

He was a great admirer of Church music," said Inglesant ;
I have often seen him appoint the service and anthems himself"


As the conversation of this man was a great entertainment
to Inglesant, so his sudden and unexpected death was a great
shock to him. The physician could give no clear explanation

of his decease, and the general opinion was that he died of the
plague, though it was, of course, the interest of every one in the
pest-house that this should not be acknowledged.

A few days after the burial two of the Jesuit Fathers arrived
from Florence, accompanied by Don Agostino, who, having in
vain waited for his friend at Lucca, had sought him at Florence,
and finally traced him to his dreary prison. By their influence
Inglesant was allowed to depart ; and actuated still by his
desire to see Venice, set out, accompanied by Don Agostino,
in the hope of reaching that city. They crossed the Apennines,
and journeyed by Modena, Mantua, Verona, and Padua.
These places, which at other times would have excited in
Inglesant the liveliest interest, were passed by him now as ina
dream. The listless indifference which grew day by day,
developed at Padua into absolute illness ; and Agostino took
lodgings for his friend in one of the deserted palaces of which
the city was full. A few days' rest from travel, and from the
excitement produced by novel scenes and by the scorching
plains, had a soothing and beneficent effect ; but Venice being
reported to be at that time peculiarly unhealthy, and Inglesant
becoming sensible that he was physically unable to prosecute
any inquiries there, the friends resolved to abandon their
journey in that direction, and to return towards Rome. At
this juncture Don Agostino received letters which compelled
him to return hastily to Sienna, and after spending a few days
with his friend, he left, promising to return shortly and accompany
Inglesant to Rome, when he was sufficiently recruited by
a few weeks' repose.

The failure of the silk trade, owing to the importation of
silk from India into Europe, had destroyed the prosperity of
many parts of Italy ; and in Padua long streets of deserted
mansions attested by their beauty the wealth and taste of the
nobility, whom the loss of the rents of their mulberry groves
had reduced to ruin. Many houses being empty, rents were

exceedingly cheap, and the countrymen very plentiful in produce,
and the air very good, a little money went a long way in
Padua. There was something about the quiet gloomy town,
with its silent narrow streets and its long and dim arcades, — by
which you might go from one end of the city to the other
under a shady covert, — that soothed Inglesant's weary senses
and excited brain.

His was that sad condition in which the body and the
mind, being equally, like the several strings of an ill-kept lute,
out of tune, jarred upon each other, the pains of the body
causing phantasms and delusions of the mind. His disappointment
and illness at Florence, his long confinement in
the pest-house, and the sudden death of his friend the poor
musician, preyed upon his spirits and followed him even in his
dreams ; and his body being weakened by suffering, and his
mind depressed by these gloomy events and images, the old
spiritual terrors returned with augmented force. Nature herself,
in times of health and happiness so alluring and kind,
turns against the wretch thus deprived of other comfort. The
common sights and events of life, at one time so full of interest,
became hateful to him ; and amid the solemn twilights
and gorgeous sunsets of Italy, his imagination was oppressed
by an intolerable presentiment of coming evil. Finally, he
despaired of himself, his past life became hateful to him, and
nothing in the future promised a hope of greater success. He
saw himself the mere tool of a political faction, and to his disordered
fancy as little better than a hireling bravo and mercenary.
The rustling of leaves, the falling of water, the summer
breeze, uttered a pensive and melancholy voice, which was not
soothing, but was like the distant moaning of sad spirits foreboding
disaster and disgrace. On his first arrival in Padua
Don Agostino had introduced him to two or three ecclesiastics,
whose character and conversation he thought would please
his friend ; but Inglesant made little effort to cultivate their

acquaintance. His principal associate was the Prior of the
Benedictine monastery, a mile or two beyond the Ferrara Gate,
who, becoming at last distressed at his condition, advised him
to consult a famous physician named Signore Giovanni Mecca.

This man had the reputation of a wit, maintained chiefly
by a constant study of Boccalini's " Parnassus," with quotations
from which work he constantly adorned his discourse. He
found Inglesant prostrate on a couch in his apartment, with
the Prior by his side. The room had been the state reception
room of the former possessor, and the windows, which were
open, looked upon the wide space within one of the gates. It
was the most busy part of the city, and for that reason the
rooms had been chosen by Don Agostino, as commanding the
most agreeable and lively prospect.

The Prior having explained to the physician the nature of
Inglesant's malady, as far as he was acquainted with it, inquired
whether the situation of the rooms seemed suitable to the
doctor, or whether it would be well to remove to some country
house. The scene from the windows indeed was very lively,
and might be considered too distracting for an invalid. The
prospect commanded the greater part of the Piazza, or Place
d'Armes, the gate and drawbridges and the glacis outside,
with a stretch of country road beyond, lined with poplars.
This extensive stage was occupied by ever-varying groups, —
soldiers on guard in stiff and picturesque uniform, men carrying
burdens, pack-horses, oxen, now and then a carriage with
a string of horses and with running footmen, peasant women,
priests, children, and beggars, with sometimes a puppet-show,
or a conjuror with apes, and side by side with these last, in
strange incongruity, the procession of the Host.

From what I know of this gentleman's malady and disposition,"
said the physician, " I should suppose that these
sights and sounds, though perhaps hurtful to his physical
nature, are so dear to his moral nature that to speak against

VOL. II. E

them were useless. These sounds, though physically unpleasant,
contain to the philosophic mind such moral beauty as to
be attractive in the highest degree, and to such a nature as
this my patient possesses offer a fascination which it would
be unwise to contend against."

If," said the Prior to Inglesant with a smile, " your case
requires philosophic treatment, you are fortunate in having
secured the advice of Signore Zecca, who has the reputation
of a philosopher and wit, as well as that of a most skilful
physician."

With respect to my calling as a physician, I may make
some claim certainly," said the doctor, "if descent has any
title to confer excellence, for my great-grandfather was that
celebrated Giovanni Zecca, after whom I am named, the Physician
of Bologna, whom you will find mentioned in the most
witty ' Ragguagli ' of messer Trajan Boccalini ; therefore, if
I fail in my profession, it is not for want of generations of
experience and precept ; but as regards my proficiency as a
philosopher, I have no one to depend upon but myself, and
my proficiency is indeed but small."

You are pleased to say so, Signore Fisico," said Inglesant
languidly, " with the modesty usual with great minds ; nevertheless
the remark which you have just made shows you to be
familiar with the deepest of all philosophy, that of human life.
It is my misfortune that I am too deeply impressed already
with the importance of this philosophy, and it is my inadequate
following of its teaching which is killing me."

*' It is a subject of curious study," said the physician, "for
perplexity perhaps, certainly for much satire, but scarcely, I
should think, for martyrdom. The noblest things in Hfe are
mixed with the most ignoble, great pretence with infinite substance,
vain-glory with solidness. The fool of one moment,
the martyr of the next : as in the case of that Spaniard mentioned
by Messer Boccalini, whose work doubtless you know,

signore, but if not, I should recommend its perusal as certain
to do much to work your cure. This man — the Spaniard, I
mean — dying most gallantly upon the field of honour, entreated
his friend to see him buried without clothing him ; and ^\'ith
these words died. His body, being afterwards examined, it
was found that he who was so sprucely dressed, and who had
a ruff about his neck so curiously wrought as to be of great
value, had never a shirt on his back. This discovery caused
great laughter among the vulgar sort of mankind ; but by order
of Apollo, the great ruler of learning and philosophy, this
Spaniard was given a public and splendid funeral, equal to a
Roman triumph ; and an oration was pronounced over him,
who was so happy that, in his great calamity, he was careful
of his reputation before his life. His noble funeral seems tome
rather to proclaim the fact that our worst meanness cannot
deprive us of the dignity of that pity which is due to
human nature standing by the brink of an open grave. A
man has mistaken the secret of human life who does not look
for greatness in the midst of folly, for sparks of nobility in the
midst of meanness ; and the well-poised mind distributes with
impartiality the praise and the blame."

It is my misfortune," replied Inglesant, " that may mind
is incapable of this well-poised impartiality, but is worn out by
the unworthy conflict which the spirit within us wages with the
meanness of life. As the Psalmist says, ' The very abjects
make mouths at me, and cease not.' "

'' You are Hke those people, signore," said the physician,
mentioned by Messer Boccahni, whom the greatest physicians
failed to cure, but who were immediately restored to active
health by the simple and common remedies of a quack. You
seek for remedies among the stars and the eternal verities of
creation, whereas your ailment of mind arises doubtless from
some physical derangement, which perchance a learner in
healing might overcome."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY Of [{UHOIS

"The fatal confusion of human life," said Inglesant, "is
surely too obvious a fact to be accounted for by the delusions
of physical disease."

The physician looked at Inglesant for a moment and
said, —

Some time, signore, I will tell you a story, not out of
Boccalini, which perchance will convince you that, strange as
it may seem, the realities of life and the delusions of disease
are not so dissimilar as you think."

If it be so," said Inglesant, " your prescription is more
terrible than my complaints

I do not see that," reeked the other. "I have said nothing
but what should show you how unwise you will be, if you overlook
the bodily ailment in searching into the diseases of the
soul."

I am well aware," replied Inglesant, " that my ailment is
one of the body as well as of the mind ; but were my body
made perfectly whole and sound, my cure could scarcely be
said to be begun."

I hold that most of the sorrows and perplexities of the
mind are to be traced to a diseased body," replied the physician,
not paying much attention to what his patient said ; " the
passion of the heart, heavy and dull spirits, vain imaginations,
the vision of spectres and phantoms, grief and sorrow without
manifest cause, — all these things may be cured by purging away
melancholy humours from the body, especially as I conceive
from the mesmeric veins ; and the heart will then be comforted,
in the taking away the material cause of sorrow, which is not
to be looked for in the world of spirits, nor in any providential
government of God, nor even in outward circumstances and
perplexities, but in the mechanism of the body itself."

What cures do you propound that may be hoped to work
such happy results?" said the Prior, for Inglesant did not
speak.

We have many such cures in physics — physics studied
by the light of the heavenly science," said the physician ; " such
as the Satiric Sancti Julian, which grows plentifully on the
rough cliffs of the Tyrrhenian Sea, as the old Greek chronographers
called it, called St. Julian's Rock ; the Epithelium,
or thyme, which is under Saturn, and therefore very fitted for
melancholy men; the Febrifuga, or, in our Italian tongue,
Artemisia Tenuifolia, good for such as be melancholy, sad,
pensive, and without power of speech ; the distilled water of the
Fraga, or Strawberry, drunk with white wine revived the spirits,
and as the holy Psalmist says, ' Laetitia cor hominis;' and
the herb Panax, which grows on the top of the Apennine,
and is cherished in all the gardens of Italy for its wonderful
healing qualities ; but the liquor of it, which you may buy in
Venice, is not distilled in Italy, but is brought from Alexandria,
a city of Egypt."

You do not speak of the chemical medicines," said Inglesant,
" which were much thought of in England when I was
in Oxford ; and many wonderful cures were worked by them,
though I remember hearing that the young doctor who first
introduced them, and wrought some great cures, died himself
soon after."

I have indeed no faith in the new doctrine of chemical
compositions and receipts," said the physician, " which from
mere empiric must needs be very dangerous, but from a man
that is well grounded in the old way may do strange things.
The works of God are freely given to man. His medicines
are common and cheap ; it is the medicines of the new physicians
that are so dear and scarce to find."

Signore Zecca soon after took his leave, promising to send
Inglesant a cordial, the ingredients of which he said were
gathered on "a Friday in the hour of Jupiter," and which
would be sufficient to give sleep, pleasant dreams, and quiet
rest to the most melancholy man in the world. For, as he

sensibly observed, "waking is a symptom which much tortures
melancholy men, and must therefore be speedily helped, and
sleep by all means procured. To such as you especially, who
have what I call the temperament of sensibility, are fearful of
pain, covet music and sleep, and delight in poetry and romance,
sleep alone is often a sufficient remedy."

The doctor frequently visited Inglesant, who found his
humour and curious learning entertaining ; and on one occasion,
when they were alone together, he reminded him of his
promise to relate a story which would prove his assertion that
the ills of the soul were occasioned by those of the body.

*****

Note. — The MSS. are here imperfect.

CHAPTER III.

IN spite, however, of the reasonings and prescriptions of the
physician, the oppression upon Inglesant's brain became
more intolerable. Every new object seemed burnt into it by
the sultry outward heat, and by his own fiery thoughts. The
livid scorched plains, with the dark foliage, the hot piazzas
and highways, seemed to him thronged with ghastly phantoms,
all occupied more or less in some evil or fruitless work. As
to his physical sense all objects seemed distorted and awry, so
to his mental perception the most ordinary events bore in
them the germs, however slight, of that terrible act of murderous
terror that had marred and ruined his own life. In
some form or other, in the passionate look, in the gambler's
gesture, in the lover's glance, in the juggler's grimace, in the
passion of the little child, he saw the stealthy trail of the
Italian murderer, before whose cowardly blow his brother fell.
The cool neglected courts of Padua afforded no reef to his
racked brain, no solace to his fevered fancy. He frequented
the shadowed churches and the solemn masses daily without
comfort ; for his conscience was once more weighted with the
remembrance of Serenus de Cressy, and of his own rejection
of the narrow path of the Holy Cross. A sense of oppression
and confusion rested upon him mentally and physically, so
that he could see no objects steadily and clearly ; but without
was a phantasmagoria of terrible bright colours, and within a
mental chaos and disorder without a clue. A constant longing
filled his mind to accept De Cressy's offer, and he would have

returned to France but for the utter impossibility of making
the journey in his condition of health. He withdrew himself
more and more from society, and at last, without informing
his friends of his intention, he retired to a small monastery
without the city, about a mile from the Treviso Gate, and
requested to be admitted as a novice. The result of this step
at the outset was beneficial ; for the perfect seclusion, and the
dim light of the cells and shaded garden, relieved the brain,
and restored the disordered sense of vision.

It was some time before Don Agostino received intelligence,
through the Prior, of this step of his friend's. He
immediately came to Padua, and had several interviews with
Inglesant, but apparently failed to produce any impression
upon him. He then returned to Florence, and induced the
Cardinal Rinuccini, from whose influence upon Inglesant he
hoped much, to accompany him to Padua.

The Cardinal was a striking-looking and singularly handsome
man, his countenance resembling the reputed portraits
of Moliere, whose bust might be taken for that of a pagan god.
There was the same open free expression, as of a man who
confined his actions by no bounds, who tasted freely of that
tree of good and evil, which, it is reported, transforms a man
into a god, and of that other tree which, since the flaming
sword of the cherubim kept the way to the true, has passed
in the world for the tree of life ; who had no prejudices nor
partialities, but included all mankind, and all the opinions of
men, within the wide range of perfect tolerance and lofty
indifference. He found Inglesant in his novice's dress, walking
in the small walled-in garden of the monastery, beneath
the mulberry trees, his breviary in his hand. After the first
greeting the Cardinal inquired touching his health.

You are familiar with English, Eminence," replied Inglesant,
" and remember Hamlet ; and you will therefore understand
the state of a man for whom the world is too strong."



"It is only the weak," replied the Cardinal, " for whom the
world is too strong, You know what Terence says, ' Ita vita
est hominem quasi cum lucas tesseris,' or, as we should rather
say, ' Life is like a game of cards;' you cannot control the cards,
but of such as turn up you must make the most."

Illud quod cecilia forte, id arte ut corrigas."

The freewill, the reason, and the power of self-command,
struggle perpetually with an array of chance incidents, of
mechanical forces, of material causes, beyond foresight or control,
but not beyond skilful management. This gives a delicate
zest and point to Hfe, which it would surely want if we
had the power to frame it as we would. We did not make the
world, and are not responsible for its state ; but we can make
life a fine art, and, taking things as we find them, like wise
men, mould them as may best serve our own ends."

We are not all wise, your Eminence, and the ends that
some of us make our aim are far beyond our reach."

I was ever moderate in my desires," said the Cardinal
with a smile ; " I shoot at none of these high-flying game. I
am content to live from day to day, and leave the future to
the gods ; in the meantime sweetening life as I can with some
pleasing toys, here and there, to relish it."

You have read Don Quixote, Eminence," said Inglesant ;
"and no doubt hold him to have been mad."

He was mad, doubtless," replied the Cardinal smiling.

I am mad, like him," replied the other.

I understand you," said the Cardinal ; " it is a noble
madness, from which we inferior natures are free ; nevertheless,
it may be advisable for a time to consult some worldly physician,
that by his help this nobleness may be preserved a
little longer upon earth and among men."

No worldly physician knows the disease, much less the
cure," said Inglesant. " Don Quixote died in his bed at last,
talked down by petty common-place, acknowledging his madness,

and calling his noble life a mistake ; how much more
shall I, whose life has been the more ignoble for some transient
gleams of splendour which have crossed its path in vain ! The
world is too strong for me, and heaven and its solution of life's
enigma too far off."

There is no solution, believe me," said the Cardinal, " no
solution of life's enigma worth the reading. But suppose there
be, you are more likely to find it at Rome than here. Peut off
that monk's dress, and come with me to Rome. What solution
can you hope to find, brooding on your own heart, on this
narrow plot of grass, shut in by lofty walls ? You, and natures
like yours, make this great error; you are moralizing and speculating
upon what life ought to be, instead of taking it as it is ;
and in the meantime it sips by you, and you are nothing, and
life is gone. I have heard, and you doubtless, in a fine concert
of viols, extemporary descant upon a thorough bass in the
Italian manner, when each performer in turn plays such variety
of descant, in concordance to the bass, as his skill and present
invention may suggest to him. In this manner of play the
consonances invariably fall true upon a given note, and every
succeeding note of the ground is met, now in the unison or
octave, now in the concords, preserving the melody throughout
by the laws of motion and sound. I have thought that this is
life. To a solemn bass of mystery and of the unseen, each
man plays his own descant as his taste or fate suggests ; but
this manner of play is so governed and controlled by what
seems a fatal necessity, that all melts into a species of harmony ;
and even the very discords and dissonances, the wild passions
and deeds of men, are so attempted and adjusted that without
them the entire piece would be incomplete. In this way
I look upon life as a spectacle, ' in theatre lusus.' Have you
sat so long that you are tired already of the play?"

I have read in some books said Inglesant, " that it is not
1 What this book is I do not know. The remark was made by Jean
Paul, in Hesperus, some hundred years after Inglesant's day.

the play — only the rehearsal. The play itself is not given till
the next life. But for the rest your Eminence is but too right.
There is no solution within my own heart, and no help within
these walls."

There can be little doubt that had Inglesant remained
much longer in the monastery, he would have sunk into a
settled melancholy. The quiet and calm, while it soothed his
brain, and relieved it of the phantoms that distracted it, allowed
the mind to dwell exclusively upon those depressing thoughts
and ideas which were exhausting his spirit and reducing him
well-nigh to despair. However undesirable at other times the
Cardinal's philosophic paganism might be, no doubt, at this
moment, his society was highly beneficial to Inglesant, to whom,
indeed, his conversation possessed a peculiar charm. It could,
indeed, scarcely fail to attract one who himself sympathized
with that philosophy of tolerance of, and attraction to, the
multiform aspects of life which Paganism and the Cardinal
equally followed. On the other hand, Rinuccini had from the
first been personally strongly attracted towards Inglesant, and,
as a matter of policy, attached just importance to securing his
services, both on account of what he had learnt from his
brother, and from the report of the Jesuits.

After some further conversation the Cardinal returned to
Padua in triumph, bringing Inglesant with him, whom he loaded
with kindness and attention. A suite of apartments was placed
at his disposal, certain of the Cardinal's servants were ordered
to attend him, and the finest horses were devoted to his use
on the approaching journey. After waiting in Padua some
days, to make preparations which were necessary in the neglected
state of Inglesant's affairs, they set out for Rome. Don
Agostino was still in Florence, the politics of his family not
suffering him to visit the papal city at present.

Their first day's journey took them, through the fertile and
well-cultivated Venetian States, to Rovigo, where they crossed

the Po, dividing the territory of the Republic from the Fer-rarest,
which State had lately been acquired by the Pope.

This country, which, while it possessed princes of its own,
had been one of the happiest and most beautiful parts of Italy,
was now abandoned and uncultivated to such an extent that
the grass was left unmown on the meadows. At Ferrara, a vast
city which appeared to Inglesant like a city of the dead as he
walked through streets of stately houses without an inhabitant,
the chief concourse of people was the crowd of beggars who
thronged round the Cardinal's coach. After dinner Inglesant
left his companion, who liked to linger over his wine, and
walked out into the quiet streets. The long, deserted vistas of
this vast city, sleeping in the light and shadow of the afternoon
sun, disturbed now and then only by a solitary footstep, pleased
his singular fancies as Padua had done. He entered several of
the Churches, which were mean and poorly adorned, and spoke
to several of the priests and loiterers. Everywhere he heard
complaints of the poverty of the place, of the misery of the
people, of the bad unwholesome air, caused by the dearth of
inhabitants to cultivate the land. When he came to inquire
into the causes of this, most held their peace ; but one or two
idlers, bolder or more reckless than the rest, seeing that he
was a foreigner, and ignorant that he was riding in the train of
a Cardinal, whispered to him something of the severity of the
Papal government, and of the heavy taxes and frequent confiscations
by which the nephews of several Popes had enriched
themselves, and devoured many of the principal families of the
city, and driven away many more. " They talk of the bad air,"
said one of these men to Inglesant ; " the air was the same a
century ago, when this city was flourishing under its own
princes — princes of so eminent a virtue, and of so heroical a
nobleness, that they were really the Fathers of their country.
Nothing," he continued with a mute gesture of the hands,
can be imagined more changed than this is now."

"But Bologna is under the Pope, also," said Inglesant,
"and is flourishing enough."

Bologna," he answered, " delivered itself up to the Popedom
upon a capitulation, by which there are many privileges
reserved to it. Crimes there are only punished in the persons
of those who commit them. There are no confiscations of
estates ; and the good result of these privileges is evident, for,
though Bologna is neither on a navigable river nor the centre
of a sovereignty where a Court is kept, yet its happiness and
wealth amaze a stranger ; while we, once equally fortunate, are
like a city in a dream."

Inglesant returned to the inn to the Cardinal, and related
what he had heard ; to all which dismal stories the Prelate only
replied by significant gesture.

The next morning, however, as he was entering his carriage
followed by his friend, he seemed to take particular notice of
the crowd of beggars that surrounded the inn. In Inglesant's
eyes they only formed part (together with the strange, quiet
streets, the shaded gardens, and the ever changing scenes of
their journey) in that shifting phantasm of form and colour,
meaningless to him, except as it might suddenly, and in some
unexpected way, become a part and scene of the fatal drama
that had seized upon and crippled his life. But to the Cardinal,
who had the training of a politician, though he subordinated
politics to enjoyment, these swarms of beggars and these
decaying states had at times a deeper interest.

These people," he said, as the carriage moved on, " certainly
seem very miserable, as you told me last night. To
those whose tastes lay that way it would not be a useless business
to inquire into these matters, and to try to set them right.
Some day, probably far distant, some of us, or those Hke us
who clothe in scarlet and fine linen, will have to pay a reckoning
for these things."

They are less unhappy than I am," said Inglesant. " As

to the luxurious persons of whom you speak, it has been my
fate to be of their party all my life, and to serve them for very
poor reward ; and I doubt not that, when their damnation, of
which your Eminence speaks, arrives, I shall share it with them.
But it might seem to one who knows little of such things that
some such attempt might be looked for from a sworn soldier
and prince of the Church."

The Cardinal smiled. The freedom with which Inglesant's
sarcastic humour showed itself at times, when the melancholy
fit was upon him, was one of the sources of attraction which
attached the young Englishman to his person.

Life is short," he said, " and the future very uncertain ;
martyrs have died, nay, still harder fate, have lived long lives
of such devotion as that which you wish me to attempt, and
we see very little result. Christianity is not of much use apparently
to many of the nations of the earth. Now, on my
side, as I pass my life, I certainly enjoy this world, and I as
certainly have cultivated my mind to sustain, as far as I can
foresee the probable, the demand and strain that will be put
upon it, both in the exit from this life, and in the entrance
upon another. Why then should I renounce these two positive
goods, and embrace a life of restless annoyance and discomfort,
of antagonism to existing systems and order, of certain
failure, disappointment, and the peevish protestation of a
prophet to whom the world will not listen ?"

"There is no reason why, certainly," said Inglesant, "fora
sane man like your Eminence. I see clearly it must only
have been madmen who in all ages have been driven into the
fire and upon the sword's point in pursuit of an idea which
they fancied was worth the pain, but which, as they never
realized it, they could never put to the test."

I perceive your irony," said the Cardinal, " and I recognize
your wit. What astonishes me is the interest you take

in these old myths and dreary senses. The charm of novelty
must have worn itself out by this time."

Christ is real to many men," said Inglesant, " and the
world seems to manifest within itself a remedial power such
as may be supposed to be His."

I do not dispute such a power," replied the Cardinal ;
I only wonder at the attachment to these old myths which
profess to expound it."

The world has now been satisfied with them for some
centuries," said Inglesant ; " and for my own part, even in the
blaze of a purer Myths, I cannot help thinking that some of
us will look back with longing to ' one of the days of the Son
of man.' I do not perceive either that your Eminence attempts
to improve matters."

I can afford to wait," replied the Cardinal, with lofty indifference
; " the myths of the world are slow to change."

This one certainly," replied Inglesant, with a smile, "has
been slow to change, perhaps because men found in it something
that reminded them of their daily ite. It speaks of
suffering and of sin. The cross of Christ is composed of many
other crosses — is the centre, the type, the essence of all crosses.
We must suffer with Christ whether we achieve in Him or not.
We must suffer for the sin of others as for our own ; and in this
suffering we find a healing and purifying power and element.
That is what gives to Christianity, in its simplest and most unlettered
form, its force and life. Sin and suffering for sin : a
sacrifice, itself mysterious, offered mysteriously to the Divine
Nemesis or Law of Sin, — dread, undefined, unknown, yet sure
and irresistible, with the iron necessity of law. This the intellectual
Christ, the Platonic-socrates, did not offer: hence his
failure, and the success of the Nazarene. Viginti Galilee. "

CHAPTER IV.

AMONG the letters of introduction to persons in Rome
which Inglesant carried with him, was one from Father
St. Clare to the Rector of the English College, a Jesuit. The
Cardinal had invited him to remain an inmate of his family,
but there were several reasons which induced Inglesant to decline
the offer. He was desirous of observing the situation and
habits of the great city in a more unfettered way than he would
probably be able to do if attached to the household of a great
man. This reason alone would probably have decided him,
but it was not the only one. In proportion as his mind
recovered its natural tone, and was able to throw off the depression
which had so long troubled him, another source of perplexity
had taken its place. Most men, in those days, with the
exception of very determined Puritans, approached Rome with
feelings of veneration and awe. Inglesant's training and temperament
inclined him to entertain these feelings as strongly
perhaps as any man of the day ; but since he had been in Italy,
his eyes and ears had not been closed, and it had been impossible
for him to resist a growing impression, scarcely perhaps
amounting to conviction, that the nearer he approached the
Papal capital the more wretched and worse governed did the
country appear on every side. In the muttered complaints
which reached his ear these evils were charged partly upon
the abuses of the Papal chair itself, but principally upon the
tyranny and oppression of the society of the Jesuits. Inglesant
made these observations mostly in the taverns or cafe's in the

evenings when those who were present, perceiving him to be a
foreigner, were more disposed to be communicative than they
otherwise would have been. But the Cardinal was known to
associate rather with the Fathers of the Oratory than with the
Jesuits ; and men did not hesitate therefore to speak somewhat
freely on these matters to his familiar companion. These
accusations did not destroy Inglesant's faith in the Society,
but they made him anxious to hear the other side, and to see,
if possible from within, the working of this great and powerful
organization, and to understand the motives which prompted
those actions which were so much blamed, and which were
apparently productive of such questionable fruits. If this were
to be done, it must be done at once. He came to Rome recommended
to the Jesuits' College, almost an accredited agent.
He would be received without suspicion, and would probably
be enabled to obtain an insight into much of their policy. But
if at the outset he associated himself with persons and interests
hostile, or at least indifferent, to those of the party to which he
belonged, and which he wished to understand, this opportunity
would doubtless soon be lost to him. Acting upon these considerations,
he parted from the Cardinal, to whom he confided
his motives, and made his way to the English College or house,
which was situated in the street leading to St. Peter's and the
Vatican, and not far from the Bridge and Castle of St. Angelo.
The College was a large and fair house, standing in several
courts and gardens. Inglesant was received with courtesy by
the rector, who said that he remembered seeing him in London,
and that he had also been at his father's house in Wiltshire.
He named to him several Priests who had also been there ; but
so many Papists had been constantly coming and going at
Westacre, during the time that Father St. Clare had resided
there, that Inglesant could not recall them to mind. The
rector, however, mentioned one whom he remembered, the
gentleman who had given him St. Theresa's Life. He advised

VOL. II. F

Inglesant to remain some days at the College, as the usual
and natural resort of all Englishmen connected in any way with
the Court and Church of Rome, promising him pleasant rooms.
He showed him his apartment, a small but handsome guest-chamber,
looking upon a garden, with a sort of oratory or closet
adjoining, with an altar and crucifix. The bell rang for supper,
but the rector had that meal laid for himself and his guest in
his private room. The students, and those who took their
meals at the common table, had but one good meal in the
day, that being a most excellent one. Their supper consisted
of a glass of wine and a manchet of bread.

The rector and Inglesant had much talk together, and
after the latter had satisfied his host, as best he could, upon
all those points — and they were many — connected with the state
of affairs in England upon which he desired information, the
rector began in his turn to give his guest a description of
affairs in Rome, and of those things which he should see, and
how best to see them.

I will not trouble you now," he said, " with any policy
or State affairs. You will no doubt wish to spend the next
few days in seeing the wonderful sights of this place, and in
becoming familiar with its situation, so that you may study
them more closely afterwards. A man must indeed be ill-endowed
by nature who does not find in Rome delight in every
branch of learning and of art. The libraries are open, and
the students have access to the rarest books ; in the Churches
the most exquisite voices are daily heard, the palaces are
crowded with pictures and with statues, ancient and modern.
You have, besides, the stately streets and noble buildings of
every age, the presence of strangers from every part of the
world, villas covered with 'bassi relieve,' and the enjoyment
of nature in enchanting gardens. To a man who loves the
practices of devotion I need not mention the life-long employment
among the Churches, relics, and processions. It is this

last that gives the unique completeness of the Roman life
within itself. To the abundance of its earthly wealth, to the
delights of its intellectual gratifications, is added a feeling of
unequalled security and satisfaction, kept alive, in a pious
mind, by the incessant contemplation of the objects of its
reverence. I do not know if you are by taste more of a
scholar than of a religious, but both tastes are worthy of cultivation,
nor is all spiritual learning necessarily confined to the
last. There is much that is very instructive in the lessons
which the silent stones and shattered monuments of the fallen
cities over which we walk teach us. It has been well observed
that everything that has been dug out of the ruins of ancient
Rome has been found mutilated, either by the barbarians,
fanaticism, or time ; and one of our poets, Janus Vitalis, seeing
all the massive buildings smouldered or mouldering away,
and the ever-changing Tiber only remaining the same, composed
this ingenious and pleasing verse —

Dice hinc quid posset fortuna ; iota labascunt ;
Et quae perpetuo sunt fluitura, manet.'

You will find that the Italian humour delights much in such
thoughts as these, which make the French and other nations
accuse us of melancholy. The Italian has a strong fancy, yet
a strong judgment, and this makes him delight in such things
as please the fancy, while at the same time they are in accordance
with judgment and with reason. He delights in music,
medals, statues, and pictures, as things which either divert his
melancholy or humour it; and even the common people, such as
shoemakers, have formed curious collections of medals of gold,
silver, and brass, such as would have become the cabinet of a
prince. Do you wish to begin with the Churches or with the
antiquities?"

Inglesant said he wished to see the Churches first of all.

You will, no doubt," said the rector, " find a great satisfaction

in such a choice. You will be overcome with the
beauty and solemnity of these sacred places, and the sweetness
of the organs and of the singing will melt your heart. At the
same time, I should wish to point out to you, to whom I wish
to speak without the least reserve, that you will no doubt see
some things which will surprise you, nay, which may even
appear to you to be, to say the least, of questionable advantage.
You must understand once for all, and constantly bear in
mind, that this city is like none other, and that many things
are natural and proper here which would be strange and ill-fitted
elsewhere. Rome is the visible symbol and representation
of the Christian truth, and we live here in a perpetual
masque or holy interlude of the life of the Saviour. As in
other countries and cities, outward representations are placed
before the people of the awful facts and incidents on which
their salvation rests, so here this is carried still farther, as indeed
was natural and almost inevitable. It was a very small
step from the representation of the flagellation of Christ to the
very pillar on which He leant. Indeed, where these representations
were enacted, the simple country people readily and
naturally conceived them to have taken place. Hence, when
you are shown the three doors of Pilate's house in which
Jesus passed and repassed to and from judgment, the steps up
which He walked, the rock on which He promised to build
His Church, the stone on which the cock stood and crowed
when Peter denied Him, part of His coat and of His blood,
and several of the nails of His cross, — more possibly than were
originally used, over which the heretics have not failed to make
themselves very merry ; — when you see all these things, I say,
and if you feel, as I do not say you will feel — but if you feel
any hesitancy or even some repulsion, as though these miraculous
things were to you matters more of doubt than worship,
you will not fail at once to see the true nature and bearing
of these things, nor to apply to them the solution which your

philosophy has doubtless given already to many difficult
questions of this life. These things are true to each of us
according as we see them ; they are, in fact, but shadows and
likenesses of the absolute truth that reveals itself to men indifferent
ways, but always imperfectly and as in a glass. To
the simple-hearted peasant that pavement upon which in his
mind's eye he sees Jesus walking, is verily and indeed pressed
by the Divine feet; to him this pillar, the sight of which
makes the stinging whips creep along his flesh, is the pillar to
which the Lord was tied. Our people, both peasant and
noble, are of the nature of children — children who are naughty
one moment and sincerely penitent the next. They are now
wildly dissolute, the next day prostrate before the cross j and
as such, much that is true and beautiful in their lives seems
otherwise to the cold and world-taught heart. But our Lord
honoured the childlike heart, and will not send away our poor
peasants when they come to Him with their little offerings,
even though they lay them at the feet of a Bambino doll."

But do you not find," said Inglesant, " that this devotion,
which is so ephemeral, is rather given to the sensible object
than to the unseen Christ?"

It may be so," said the rector ; " there is no good but
what has its alloy ; but it is a real devotion, and it reaches
after Christ. Granted that it is dark, no doubt in the darkness
it finds Him, though it cannot see His form."

Doubtless," said Inglesant, who saw that the rector did
not wish to dwell on this part of the subject, " as we say in
our service in England, we are the sheep of His pasture, and
we are all branded with the mark which He puts upon His
sheep — the innate knowledge of God in the soul. I remember
hearing of a man who believed that he had a guardian
spirit who awoke him every morning with the audible words,
Who gets up first to pray ? ' If this man was deluded, it could
not have been by Satan."

JOHN INGLES ANT ; [chap. iv.

In the morning, when Inglesant awoke, he saw from his
window, over the city wall, the Monte Mario, with its pine
woods, and the windows of its scattered houses, lighted by the
rising sun. The air was soft and balmy, and he remained at
the open window, letting his mind grow certain of the fact that
he was in Rome. In the clear atmosphere of the Papal city
there was a strange shimmer of light upon the distant hills, and
on the green tufts and hillocks of the waste ground beyond the
walls. The warm air fanned his temples, and in the stillness
of the early morning a delicious sense of a wonderful and unknown
land, into the mysteries of which he was about to enter,
filled his mind.

It was indeed a strange world which lay before him, and
resembled nothing so much as that to which the rector had
aptly compared it the night before, a sacred interlude full of
wild and fantastic sights; Churches more sublime than the
dreams of fancy painted, across whose marble pavements saints
and angels moved familiarly with men ; pagan sepulchres and
banqueting chambers, where the phantoms flickered as in
Tartarus itself; vaults and Christian catacombs, where the cry
of martyrs mingled with the chanting of masses sung beneath
the sod, and where the torch-light flashed on passing forms of
horror, quelled everywhere by the figure of the Crucified, that
at every turn kept the place ; midnight processions and singing,
startling the darkness and scaring the doers of darkness, mortal
and immortal, that lurked among the secret places, where
the crimes of centuries stood Hke ghastly corpses at every step ;
and above all and through all the life of Jesus, enacted and
re-enacted year after year and day by day continually, not in
dumb show or memorial only, but in deed and fact before the
eyes of men, as if, in that haunt of demons and possessed, in
that sink of past and present crime, nothing but the eternal
presence and power of Jesus could keep the fiends in check.
The rector took Inglesant over the College, and showed



him the life and condition of the inmates under its most pleasing
aspect. As he then saw it it reminded him of a poem he
had heard Mr. Crashaw read at Little Gidding, describing a
religious house and condition of life, and he quoted part of it
to the rector : —

No cruel guard of diligent cares, that keep
Crowned woes awake, as things too wise for sleep :
But reverend discipline, and religious fear,
And soft obedience, find sweet biding here ;
Silence and sacred rest, peace and pure joys."

"mien they had seen the College the rector said, —

We will go this morning to St. Peter's. It is better that
you should see it at once, though the first sight is nothing.
Then at three o'clock we will attend vespers at the Capelle
del Corn, where there is fine music every day in the presence
of a cardinal ; afterwards, as Rome is very full, there will be a
great confluence of carriages in the Piazza of the Farnese
Palace, which is a favourite resort. There I can show you
many of the great ones, whom it is well you should know by
sight, and hear something of, before you are presented to them."

As they passed out into the street of the city the rector
began a disquisition on the discovery of antiquities in Rome.
He advised Inglesant to study the cabinets of medals which
he would meet with in the museums and palaces, as they
would throw great light upon the statues and other curiosities.

A man takes a great deal more pleasure," he said, " in
surveying the ancient statues, who compares them sith medals,
than it is possible for him to do without some such knowledge,
for the two arts illustrate each other. The coins throw a great
light upon many points of ancient history, and enable us to
distinguish the kings and consuls, emperors and empresses,
the deities and virtues, with their ensigns and trophies, and a
thousand other attributes and images not to be learnt or understood
in any other way. I have a few coins myself, which I

shall be glad to show you, and a few gems, among which is
an Anxious cut in a carnelian which I value very highly. It
represents him in the habit of a Mercury, and is the finest
IntagHo I ever saw. I obtained it by accident from a peasant,
who found it while digging in his vineyard."

Inglesant was too much occupied watching the passers-by
in the thronged streets to pay much attention to what he said.
The crowded pavements of Rome offered to his eyes a spectacle
such as he had never seen, and to his imagination a fanciful
pageant such as he had never pictured even in his dreams.
The splendid equipages with their metal work of massive
silver, the strange variety of the clerical costumes, the fantastic
dresses of the attendants and papal soldiers, the peasants and
pilgrims from all countries, even the most remote, crossed his
vision in an entangled maze.

As they crossed the bridge of St. Angelo, the rector informed
him of the invaluable treasures of antique art which
were supposed to lie beneath the muddy waters of the river.
They passed beneath the castle, and a few moments more
brought them to the piazza in front of the Church.

The colonnade was not finished, one side of it being then
in course of completion; but in all its brilliant freshness, with the
innumerable statues, white from the sculptor's hand, it had an
imposing and stately effect. The great obelisk, or Guglia, as
the Italians called it, had been raised to its position some
seventy years before, but only one of the great fountains was
complete. Crossing the square, which was full of carriages,
and of priests and laymen on foot, the rector and Inglesant
ascended the marble stairs which had formed part of the old
Basilica, and up which Charlemagne was said to have mounted
on his knees, and passing through the gigantic porch, with its
enormous pillars and gilt roof, the rector pushed back the
canvas-lined curtain that closed the doorway, and they entered
the Church.

The masons were at work completing the marble covering
of the massive square pillars of the nave ; but though the work
was unfinished, it was sufficient to produce an effect of inexpressible
richness and splendour. The vast extent of the
pavement, prepared as for the heavenly host with inlaying of
colours of polished stone, agate, serpentine, porphyry, and
chalcedony ; the shining walls, veined with the richest marbles,
and studded with gems; the roof of the nave, carved with
foliage and roses overlaid with gold ; the distant walls and
chambers of imagery, dim with incense, through which shone
out, scarcely veiled, the statues and tombs, the paintings and
crucifixes and altars, with their glimmering lights ; — all settled
down, so to speak, upon Inglesant's soul with a perception of
subdued splendour, which hushed the spirit into a silent feeling
which was partly rest and partly awe.

But when, having traversed the length of the nave without
uttering a word, he passed from under the gilded roofs, and
the spacious dome, lofty as a firmament, expanded itself above
him in the sky, covered with tracery of the celestial glories and
brilliant nth mosaic and stars of gold ; when, opening on all
sides to the wide transepts, the limitless pavement stretched
away beyond the reach of sense ; when, beneath this vast work
and finished effort of man's devotion, he saw the high altar,
brilliant with lights, surmounted and enthroned by its panoply
of clustering columns and towering cross; when, all around
him, he was conscious of the hush and calmness of worship,
and felt in his inmost being the sense of vastness, of splendour,
and of awe ; — he may be pardoned if, kneeling upon the polished
floor, he conceived for the moment that this was the house of
God, and that the gate of heaven was here.

CHAPTER V.

T T is almost Impossible for a man to form in his imagine
tion," said the rector to Inglesant, as they left the
Church, " such beautiful and glorious scenes as are to be met
with in the Roman Churches and Chapels. The profusion of
the ancient marble found within the city itself, and the many
fine quarries in the neighbourhood, have made this result
possible ; and notwithstanding the incredible sums of money
which have been already laid out in this way, the same work
is still going forward in other parts of Rome ; the last effort
still endeavouring to outshine those that went before it."

Inglesant found this assertion to be true. As he entered
Church after Church, during the first few days of his sojourn in
Rome, he found the same marble walls, the same inlaid tombs,
the same coloured pavements. In the sombre autumn afternoons
this splendour was toned down and veiled, till it produced
an effect which was inexpressibly noble, — a dim brilliance,
a subdued and restrained glory, which accorded well with
the enervating perfume and the strains of romantic music that
stole along the aisles. In these Churches, and in the monasteries
adjoining, Inglesant was introduced to many priests and
ecclesiastics, among whom he might study most of the varieties
of devout feeling, and of religious life in all its forms. To
many of these he was not drawn by any feeling of sympathy ;
many were only priests and monks in outward form, being in
reality men of the world, men of pleasure, or antiquarians and
artists. But, introduced to the society of Rome in the first

place as a "devote," he became acquainted naturally with
many who aspired to, and who were considered to possess,
exceptional piety. Among these he was greatly attracted by
report towards a man who was then beginning to attract attention
in Rome, and to exert that influence over the highest and
most religious natures, which, during a period of twenty years,
became so overpowering as at one time to threaten to work a
complete revolution in the system and policy of Rome. This
was Michael de Molinos, a Spanish monk, who, coming to
Rome some years before, began to inculcate a method of
mystical devotion which he had no doubt gathered from the
followers of St. Theresa, who were regarded with great veneration
in Spain, where the contemplative devotion which they
taught was held in high esteem. On his first coming to Rome
Mounts refused all ecclesiastical advancement, and declined
to practise those austerities which were so much admired. He
associated with men of the most powerful minds and of the
most elevated thoughts, and being acknowledged at once to
be a man of learning and of good sense, his influence soon
became perceptible. To all who came to him for spiritual
comfort and advice he insisted on the importance of mental
devotion, of daily communion, and of an inward application of
the soul to Jesus Christ and to His death. So attractive were
his personal qualities, and so alluring his doctrine to minds
which had grown weary of the more formal ceremonies and
acts of bodily penance and devotion, that thousands thronged
his apartments, and " the method of Molinos " became not only
a divine message to many, but even the fashionable religion
of Rome.

It spoke to men of an act of devotion, which it called the
contemplative state, in which the will is so united to God and
overcome by that union that it adores and loves and resigns
itself up to Him, and, not exposed to the wavering of the mere
fancy, nor wearied by a succession of formal acts of a dry

religion, it enters into the life of God, into the heavenly places
of Jesus Christ, with an indescribable and secret joy. It taught
that this rapture and acquiescence in the Divine Will, while it
is the highest state and privilege of devotion, is within the reach
of every man, being the fruit of nothing more than the silent
and humble adoration of God that arises out of a pure and
quiet mind ; and it offered to every man the prospect of this
communion — a prospect to which the very novelty and vagueness
gave a hitherto unknown delight — in exchange for the
common methods of devotion which long use and constant
repetition had caused to appear to many but as dead and lifeless
forms. Those who followed this method generally laid
aside the use of the rosary, the daily repeating of the breviary,
together with the common devotion of the saints, and applied
themselves to preserve their minds in an inward calm and
quiet, that they might in silence perform simple acts of faith,
and feel those inward motions and directions which they believed
would follow upon such acts.

To such a doctrine as this, taught by such a man, it is not
surprising that Inglesant was soon attracted, and he visited
Molinos's rooms several times. On one of these occasions he
met in the anteroom a gentleman he had seen more than once
before, but had never spoken to. He was therefore somewhat
surprised when he accosted him, and seemed desirous of some
private conference. Inglesant knew that he was the Count
Vespasian, and had heard him described as of a noble and
refined nature, and a hearty follower of Molinos. They left
the house together, and driving to the gardens of the Borghese
Palace, they walked for some time.

The Count began by expressing his pleasure that at so early
a period of his residence in Rome Inglesant had formed the
acquaintance of Molinos.

You are perhaps," he said, " not aware of the importance
of the movement, nor of the extent to which some of us are not

without hope that it may ultimately reach. Few persons are
aware of the numbers already devoted to it, including men of
every rank in the Church and among the nobility, and of every
variety of opinion and of principle. It cannot be supposed that
all these persons act thus under the influence of any extraordinary
elevation of piety or devotion. To what then can their
conduct be ascribed ? It cannot have escaped your notice,
since you have been in Italy, that there is much that is rotten
in the state of government, and to be deplored in the condition
of the people. I do not know in what way you may have
accounted for this lamentable condition of affairs in your own
mind ; but among ourselves (those among us at any rate who
are men of intelligence and of experience of the life of other
countries, and especially Protestant ones) there is but one solution
— the share that priests have in the government, not only
in the Pope's territory, but in all the other courts of Italy
where they have the rule. This does not so much arise from
any individual errors or misdoing as from the necessary unfitness
of ecclesiastics to interfere in civil affairs. They have not
souls large enough nor tender enough for government ; they are
trained in an inflexible code of morals and of conduct from
which they cannot swerve. To this code all human needs must
bow. They are cut off from sympathy with their fellows on
most points ; and their natural inclinations, which cannot be
wholly suppressed, are driven into unworthy and mean channels;
and they acquire a narrowness of spirit and a sourness of mind,
together with a bias to one side only of Hfe, which does not
agree with the principles of human society. All kinds of
incidental evils arise from these sources, in stating which I do
not wish to accuse those ecclesiastics of unusual moral turpitude.
Among them is the fact that, having individually so
short and uncertain a time for governing, they think only of
the present, and of serving their own ends, or satisfying their
own conceptions, regardless of the ultimate happiness or misery

which must be the consequence of what they do. Whatever
advances the present interests of the Church or of themselves,
for no man is free altogether from selfish motives — whatever
enriches the Church or their own families, for no man can help
interesting himself in those of his own house, — is preferred to
all wise, great, or generous counsels. You will perhaps wonder
what the mystic spiritual religion of MoHnos has to do with all
this, but a moment's explanation will, I think, make it very clear
to you. The hold which the priests have upon the civil government
is maintained solely by the tyranny which they exercise
over the spiritual life of men. It is the opinion of Molinos
that this function is misdirected, and that in the place of a
tyrant there should appear a guide. He is about to publish
a book called ' II Guida Spiritual,' which will appear with
several approbations before it, — one by the general of the
Franciscans, who is a Qualificator of the Inquisition, and
another by a member of the society to which you are attached,
Father Martin de Sparta, also one of the Qualifications. This
book, so authorized and recommended, cannot fail not only
to escape censure, but to exert a powerful influence, and will
doubtless be highly esteemed. Now the importance of Molinos's
doctrine lies in this, that he presses the point of frequent communion,
and asserts that freedom from mortal sin is the only
necessary qualification. At the same time he guards himself
from the charge of innovation by the very title and the whole
scope of his book, which is to insist upon the necessity of a
spiritual director and guide. You will see at once what an
important step is here gained ; for the doctrine being once admitted
that mortal sin only is a disqualification for receiving
the sacrament, and the necessity of confession before communion
being not expressed, the obligation of coming always
to the priest, as the minister of the sacrament of penance,
before every communion, cannot long be insisted upon. Indeed,
it will become a rule by which all spiritual persons who

adhere to Mollnos's method will conduct their penitents, that
they may come to the sacrament when they find themselves
out of the state of mortal sin, without going at every time to
confession ; and it is beginning to be observed already in Rome
that those who, under the influence of this method, are becoming
more strict in their lives, more retired and serious in
their mental devotions, are become less zealous in their whole
deportment as to the exterior parts of religion. They are
not so assiduous at mass, nor in procuring masses for their
friends, nor are they so frequent at confession or processions.
I cannot tell you what a blessing I anticipate for mankind
should this method be once allowed ; what a freedom, what
a force, what a reality religion would obtain ! The time is ripe
for it, and the world is prepared The best men are giving
their adherence ; I entreat you to lend your aid. The Jesuits
are wavering; they have not yet decided whether the new
method will prevail or not. The least matter will turn the
scale. You may think that it is of little importance which side
you take, but if so, you are mistaken. You are not perhaps
aware of the high estimation in which the reports and letters
which have preceded you have caused you to be held at the
Jesuits' College. You are supposed to have great influence
with the English Catholics and Protestant Episcopalians, and
the idea of promoting Catholic progress in England is the
dearest to the mind of the Roman Ecclesiastic."

Inglesant listened to the Count attentively, and did not
immediately reply. At last he said, —

What you have told me is of the greatest interest, and
commends itself to my conscience more than you know. As
to the present state and government of Italy I am not competent
to speak. One of the things which I hoped to learn
in Rome was the answer to some complaints which I have
heard in other parts of Italy. I fear also that you may be too
sanguine as to the result of such freedom as you desire. This

age is witness of the state to which too much freedom has

brought England, my own country, a land which a few years

ago was the happiest and wealthiest of all countries, now utterly

ruined and laid waste. The freedom which you desire, and

the position of the clergy which you approve, is somewhat the

same as that which existed in the Protestant Episcopal Church

of England ; but the influence they possessed was not sufficient

to resist the innovations and wild excesses of the Sectaries.

The freedom which I desire for myself I am willing to renounce

when I see the evil which the possession of it works among

others and in the State. What you attempt, however, is an

experiment in which I am not unwilling to be interested ; and

I shall be very curious to observe the result. The main point

of your method, the freedom of the blessed sacrament, is a

taking piece of doctrine, for the holding of which I have always

been attracted to the Episcopal Church of England. It is, as

you say, a point of immense importance, upon which in fact

the whole system of the Church depends. I have been long

seeking for some solution of the mysterious difficulties of the

religious life. It may be that I shall find it in your society,

which I perceive already to consist of men of the highest and

most select natures, with whom, come what may, it is an

honour to be allied. You may count on my adherence ; and

though I may seem a half-hearted follower, I shall not be

found wanting when the time of action comes. I should wish

to see more of Molinos."

I am not at all surprised," said the Count, " that you do
not at once perceive the full force of what I have said. It
requires to be an Italian, and to have grown to manhood in
Italy, to estimate justly the pernicious influence of the clergy
upon all ranks of society. I have travelled abroad, and when
I have seen such a country as Holland, a land divided between
land and sea, upon which the sun rarely shines, with a
cold and stagnant air, and liable to be destroyed by inundations;

when I see this country rich and flourishing, full of
people, happy and contented, with every mark of plenty, and
none at all of want ; when I see all this, and then think of my
o\sTi beautiful land, its long and happy summers, its rich and
fruitful soil, and see it ruined and depopulated, its few inhabitants
miserable and in rags, the scorn and contempt instead
of the envy of the world ; when I think of what she was an
age or two ago, and reflect upon the means by which such a
fall, such a dispelling, and such a poverty, has befallen a
nation and a climate like this ; — I dare not trust myself to speak
the words which arise to my lips. Those with whom you
associate will doubtless endeavour to prevent these melancholy
truths from being perceived by you, but they are too evident
to be concealed. Before long you will have painful experience
of their existence."

"You say," said Inglesant, "that one or two ages ago
Italy was much more prosperous than at present j were not
the priests as powerful then as now ? "

I do not deny," replied the Count, " that there have
been other causes which have tended to impoverish the country,
but under a different government many of these might have
been averted or at any rate mitigated. When the commerce
of the country was flourishing the power of the wealthy merchants
and the trading princes was equal or superior to that
of the priests, especially in the leading States. As their influence
and wealth declined, the authority of the clergy increased.
A wiser policy might have discovered other sources of wealth
and of occupation for the people ; they only thought of establishing
the authority of the Church, of adorning the altars, of
filling the Papal coffers."

Inglesant may have thought that he perceived a weak
point in this explanation, but he made no reply, and the Count
supposed he was satisfied.

VOL. II. G

A few days afterwards he had the opportunity of a long
and private conversation with MoHnos.

The Spaniard was a man of tall and graceful exterior, with
a smile and manner which were indescribably alluring and
sweet. Inglesant confided to him something of his past history,
and much of his mental troubles and perplexities. He
spoke of De Cressy and of the remorse which had followed
his rejection of the life of self-denial which the Benedictine
had offered him Molinos's counsel was gentle and kindly.

It was said to me long ago," said Inglesant, " that ' there
are some men born into the world with such happy dispositions
that the cross for a long time seems very light, if not altogether
unfelt. The strait path runs side by side with the broad and
pleasant way of man's desires ; so close are they that the two
cannot be discerned apart So the man goes on, the favourite
seemingly both of God and his fellows ; but let him not think
that he shall always escape the common doom. God is preparing
some great test for him, some great temptation, all the
more terrible for being so long delayed. Let him beware lest
his spiritual nature be enervated by so much sunshine, so that
when the trial comes, he may be unable to meet it. His conscience
is easier than other men's ; what are sins to them are
not so to him. But the trial that is prepared for him will be no
common one ; it will be so fitted to his condition that he cannot
palter with it nor pass it by ; he must either deny his God or
himself This was said to me by one who knew me not ; but
it was said with something of a prophetic instinct, and I see
in these words some traces of my own fate. For a long time
it seemed to me that I could serve both the world and God,
that I could be a courtier in kings' houses and in the house
of God, that I could follow the earthly learning and at the
same time the learning that is from above. But suddenly the
chasm opened beneath my feet ; two ways lay before me, and I
chose the broad and easy path ; the cross was offered to me.

and I drew back my hand ; the winnowing fan passed over the
floor, and I was swept away with the chaff."

I should prefer to say," replied the Spaniard, — and as he
spoke, his expression was wonderfully compassionate and
urbane, — "I should prefer to say that there are some men
whom God is determined to win by love. Terrors and
chastisements are fit for others, but these are the select
natures, or, as you have yourself termed them, the courtiers of
the household of God. Believe me, God does not lay traps
for any, nor is He mistaken in His estimate. If He lavishes
favour upon any man, it is because he knows that that man's
nature will respond to love. It is the habit of kings to assemble
in their houses such men as will delight them by their
conversation and companionship, ' amor ac delicate generis
humani,' whose memory is fresh and sweet ages after, when they
be dead. Something like this it seems to me God is wont todo,
that He may win these natures for the good of mankind and
for His own delight. It is true that such privilege calls for a
return ; but what will ensure a return sooner than the consideration
of such favour as this ? You say you have been unworthy
of such favour, and have forfeited it for ever. You cannot have
forfeited it, for it was never deserved. It is the kingly grace
of God, bestowed on whom He will. If I am not mistaken in
your case, God will win you, and He will win you by determined
and uninterrupted acts of love. It may be that in
some other place God would have found for you other work ;
you have failed in attaining to that place ; serve Him where
you are. If you fall still lower, or imagine that you fall lower,
still serve Him in the lowest room of all. Wherever you may
find yourself, in Courts or pleasure-houses or gardens of delight,
still serve Him, and you will bid defiance to imaginations
and powers of evil, that strive to work upon a sensitive and
excited nature, and to urge it to despair. Many of these
thoughts which we look upon as temptations of God are but

the accidents of our bodily temperaments. How can you,
nursed in Courts, delicately reared and bred, trained in
pleasure, your ear and eye and sense habituated to music and
soft sounds, to colour and to beauty of form, your brain developed
by intellectual effort and made sensitive to the slightest
touch — how can religious questions bear the same aspect to
you as to a man brought up in want of the necessaries of life,
hardened by toil and exposure, unenlightened by learning and
the arts, unconscious of the existence even of what is agony
or delight to you ? Yet God is equally with both of these ; in
His different ways He will lead both of them, would they but
follow, through that maze of accident and casualty in which
they are involved, and out of the tumult of which coil they
complain to the Deity of what is truly the result of their own
temperaments, ancestry, and the resentments of Hfe. I tell
you this because I have no fear that it will exalt you, but to
keep you from unduly depreciating yourself, and from that
terrible blasphemy that represents God as laying snares for
men in the guise of pretended kindness. God is with all,
with the coarse and dull as with the refined and pure, but He
draws them by different means, — those by terror, these by love."
Inglesant said little in answer to these words, but they
made a deep impression upon him. They lifted a weight
from his spirits, and enabled him henceforward to take some
of the old pleasure in the light of heaven and the occurrences
of life. He saw much of Molinos, and had long conferences
with him upon the solution of the greatest of all problems,
that of granting religious freedom, and at the same time
maintaining religious truth. Molinos thought that his system
solved this problem, and although Inglesant was not altogether
convinced of this, yet he associated himself heartily, if not
wholly, with the Quietists, as Molinos's followers were called, in
so much that he received some friendly cautions from the
Jesuit College not to commit himself too far.

It must not be supposed, however, that he was altogether
absorbed in such thoughts or such pursuits. To him, as to all
the other inhabitants of Rome, each in his own degree and
station, the twofold aspect of existence in the strange Papal
city claimed his alternate regard, and divided his life and his
intellect. The society of Rome, at one moment devout, the
next philosophic, the next antiquarian, artistic, pleasure-seeking,
imparted to all its members some tincture of its Protean character.
The existence of all was coloured by the many-sided
prism through which the light of every day's experience was
seen. Inglesant's acquaintance with the Cardinal introduced
him at once to all the different coteries, and procured him the
advantage of a companion who exerted a strong and cultivated
mind to exhibit each subject in its completest and most fascinating
aspect. Accompanied by the Cardinal, and with one
or other of the literati of Rome, each in his turn a master of
the peculiar study to which the day was devoted, Inglesant
wandered day after day through all the wonderful city, through
the palaces, ruins, museums, and galleries. He stood among
the throng of statues, that strange maze of antique life, which
some enchanter's wand seems suddenly to have frozen into
marble in the midst of its intricate dance, yet so frozen as to
retain, by some mysterious art, the warm and breathing Hfe.
He saw the men of the old buried centuries, of the magic and
romantic existence when the world was young. The beautiful
gods with their white wands ; the grave senators and stately
kings ; the fauns and satyrs that dwelt in the untrodden
woods ; the pastoral flute players, whose airs yet linger within
the peasant's reeds ; the slaves and craftsmen of old Rome,
with all their postures, dress, and bearing, as they walked those
inlaid pavements, buried deep beneath the soil, whose mosaic
figures every now and then are opened to the faded life of
to-day. Nor less entrancing were those quaint fancies upon
the classic tombs, which showed in what manner the old pagan

looked out into the spacious ether and confronted death, — a
child playing with a comic masque, bacchanals, and wreaths
of flowers, hunting parties and battles, images of life, of
feasting and desire ; and finally, the inverted torch, the fleeting
seasons ended, and the actor's part laid down.

Still existing as a background to this phantom life was the
stage on which it had walked ; the ruined splendour of Rome,
in its setting of blue sky and green forage, of ivy and creeping
plants, of laurels and ilex, enfolded in a soft ethereal radiance
that created everywhere a garden of romance.

Nothing delights and entertains me so much in this
country," said Inglesant one day to a gentleman with whom
he was walking, " as the contrasts which present themselves
on every hand, the peasant's hut built in the ruins of a palace,
the most exquisite carving supporting its tottering roof, cattle
drinking out of an Emperor's tomb, a theatre built in a mausoleum,
and pantomime airs and the "plaudits" heard amid the
awful silence of the grave ; here a Christ, ghastly, naked, on a
cross ; there a charming god, a tender harmony of form and
life ; triumphal arches sunk in the ruins not of their own only,
but of successive ages, monuments far more of decay and
death than of glory or fame ; Corinthian columns canopied
with briars, ivy, and wild vine, the delicate acanthus wreaths
stained by noisome weeds. The thoughts that arise from the
sight of these contrasts are pleasing though melancholy, such
ideas, sentiments, and feelings as arise in the mind and in the
heart at the foot of antique columns, before triumphal arches,
in the depths of ruined tombs, and on mossy banks of fountains;
but there are other contrasts which bring no such
soothing thoughts with them, nothing but what may almost be
called despair ; profusion of magnificence and wealth side by
side with the utmost wretchedness ; Christ's altar blazing with
jewels and marble, misery indescribable around ; luxury, and
enjoyment, and fine clothes almost hustled by rags, and sores.

and filth. Amid the lesson of past ages, written on every ruined
column and shattered wall, what a distance still exists between
the poor and the rich ! Should the poor man wish to overpass
it, he is driven back at once into his original wretchedness, or
condemned more mercifully to death, while every ruined
column and obelisk cries aloud, ' Let everything that creeps
console itself, for everything that is elevated falls'"

We Romans," said the gentleman, " preserve our ruins as
beggars keep open their sores. They are preserved not always
from taste ; nor from a respect of antiquity, but sometimes from
mere avarice, for they attract from every corner of the world
that crowd of strangers whose curiosity has long furnished a
maintenance to three-fourths of Italy. But you were speaking
of the charming gods of the ancients. We are not inferior to
them. Have you seen the Apollo of Bernini pursuing Daphne,
in the Borghese Palace ? His hair waves in the wind, you
hear the entreaties of the god."

"Yes, I have seen it," said Inglesant ; "it is another of
those wonderful contrasts with which Rome abounds. Weare
Catholic and Pagan at the same time."

It is true," said the other ; " nevertheless, in the centre of
the blood-stained Colisseo stands a crucifix. The Galilean
has triumphed."

Inglesant stopped. They were standing before the Apollo
in the Belvedere gardens. Inglesant took from beneath his
vest a crucifix in ivory, exquisitely carved, and held it beside
the statue of the god. The one the noblest product of buoyant
life, the proudest perfection of harmonious form, purified from
all the dross of humanity, the head worthy of the god of day
and of the lyre, of healing and of help, who bore in his day
the self-same name that the other bore, "the great physician ;"
the other, worn and emaciated, helpless, dying, apparently
without power, forgotten by the world. " Has the Galilean
triumphed? Do you prefer the Christ?" he said.

The gentleman smiled. "The benign god," he said, "has
doubtless many votaries, even now."

It is probable that the Hfe of Rome was working its effect
upon Inglesant himself. Under its influence, and that of the
Cardinal, his tone of thought became considerably modified.
In a strange and unexpected way, in the midst of so much
religion, his attention was diverted from the religious side of
life, and his views of what was philosophically important underwent
considerable change. He read Lucretius less, and Terence
and Aristophanes more. Human life, as he saw it existing
around him, became more interesting to him than theories and
opinions. Life in all its forms, the Cardinal assured him, was
the only study worthy of man ; and though Inglesant saw that
such a general assertion only encouraged the study of human
thought, yet it seemed to him that it directed him to a truth
which he had hitherto perhaps overlooked, and taught him to
despise and condemn nothing in the common path of men in
which he walked. If this were true, the more carefully he
studied this common life, and the more narrowly he watched
it, the more worthy it would appear of regard ; the dull and
narrow streets, the crowded dwellings, the base and vulgar life,
the poverty and distress of the poorer classes, would assume
an interest unknown to him before.

This life and interest," the Cardinal would say, " finds its
best exponent in the old pantomime and burlesque music of Italy.
The real, every-day, commonplace, human life, which originates
absolutely among the people themselves, speaks in their own
music and street airs ; but when these are touched by a master's
hand, it becomes revealed to us in its essence, refined and
idealized, with all its human features, which, from their very
familiarity, escape our recognition as we walk the streets. In
the peculiarity of this music, its graceful delicacy and lively
frolic and grotesqueness, I think I find the most perfect presentment,
to the ear and heart, of human life, especially as the

slightest variation of time or setting reveals in the most lively
of these airs depths of pathos and melodious sorrow, completing
thus the analogy of life, beneath the gayest phases of which lie
unnoticed the saddest realities."

I have often felt," said Inglesant, " that old dance-music
has an inexpressible pathos ; as I listen to it I seem to be
present at long past festivities, whose very haunts are swept
away and forgotten ; at evenings in the distant past, looked
forward to as all-important, upon whose short and fleeting hours
the hopes and enjoyments of a lifetime were staked, now lost
in an undistinguished oblivion and dust of death. The young
and the beautiful who danced to these quaint measures, in a
year or two had passed away, and other forms equally graceful
took their place. Fancies and figures that live in sound, and
pass before the eyes only when evoked by such melodies, float
down the shadowy way and pass into the future, where other
gay and brilliant hours await the young, to be followed as
heretofore by pale and disappointed hopes and sad realities,
and the grave."

"What do you mean," said the Cardinal, " by figures that
live in sound?"

It seems to me," said Inglesant, " that the explanation of
the power of music upon the mind is, that many things are
elements which are not reckoned so, and that sound is one of
them. As the air and fire are said to be peopled by fairy
inhabitants, as the spiritual man lives in the element of faith,
so I believe that there are creatures which live in sound. Every
lovely fancy, every moment of delight, every thought and thrill
of pleasure which music calls forth, or which, already existing,
is beautified and hallowed by music, does not die. Such as
these become fairy existences, spiritual creatures, shadowy but
real, and of an inexpressibly delicate grace and beauty, which
live in melody, and float and throng before the sense whenever
the harmony that gave and maintains their life exists again in

sound. They are children of the earth, and yet above it ; they
recall the human needs and hopes from which they sprang.
They have shadowy sex and rank, and diversity of bearing, as
of the different actors' parts that fill the stage of Hfe. Poverty
and want are there, but, as in an allegory or morality, purified
and released from suffering. The pleasures and delights of
past ages thus live again in sound, the sorrows and disappointments
of other days and of other men mingle with our own,
and soften and subdue our hearts. Apollo and Orpheus
tamed the savage beasts ; music will soften our rugged nature,
and kindle in us a love of our kind and a tolerance of the
petty failings and the shortcomings of men."

It was not only music that fostered and encouraged in
Rome an easy tolerant philosophy. No society could be more
adapted than that of the Papal city to such an end. A people
whose physical wants were few and easily supped (a single
meal in such a climate, and that easily procured, sufficing for
the day) ; a city full of strangers, festivals and shows ; a conscience
absolutely at rest ; a community entirely set apart from
politics, absolutely at one with its government by habit, by interest,
and by religion ; — constituted a unique state anc mental
atmosphere, in which such philosophy naturally flourished.
The early hours of the day were spent in such business as was
necessary for all classes to engage in, and were followed by the
dinner of fruit, vegetables, fish, and a little meat. From dinner
all went to sleep, which lasted till six o'clock in the evening.
Then came an hour's trifling over the toilette, all business was
at an end, and all the shops were shut. Till three o'clock in
the morning the hours were devoted to enjoyment. Men,
women, and children repaired to the public walks, to the corso
and squares, to conversation in coteries, to assemblies in
arcaded and lighted gardens, to collations in taverns. Even
the gravest and most serious gave themselves up to relaxation
and amusement till the next day. Every evening was a festival;

every variety of character and conversation enlivened these
delicious hours, these soft and starry nights.

Nothing pleased Inglesant's fancy so much, or soothed his
senses so completely, as this second dawn of the day and rising
to pleasure in the cool evening. Soothed and calmed by sleep,
the irritated nerves were lulled into that delicious sense for
which we have no name, but which we compare to flowing
water, and to the moistening of a parched and dusty drought.
All thoughts of trouble and of business were banished by the
intervening hours of forgetfulness, from which the mind, half-aroused
and fresh from dreamland, awoke to find itself in a
world as strange and fantastic as the land of sleep which it
had left ; a land bathed in sunset light, overarched by rainbows,
saluted by cool zephyrs, soothed by soft strains of music,
delighted and amused by gay festivals, peopled by varied crowds
of happy people, many-coloured in dress, in green walks sparkling
with fairy lamps, and seated at al fresco suppers, before
cosy taverns famous for delicious wines, where the gossip of
Europe, upon which Rome looked out as from a Belvedere,
intrigue, and the promotions of the morning, were discussed.

Inglesant had taken lodgings in an antique villa on the
Aventine, surrounded by an uncultivated garden and by vineyards.
The house was partly deserted and partly occupied by
a family of priests, and he slept here when he was not at the
Cardinal's palace, or with other of his friends. The place was
quiet and remote from the throng and noise of Rome ; in the
gardens were fountains in the cool shade ; frescos and paintings
had been left on the walls and in the rooms by the owner of
the villa ; the tinkling of convent bells sounded from the slopes
of the hills through the laurels and ilex and across the vines ;
every now and then the chanting of the priests might be heard
from a small Chapel at the back of the house.

Inglesant awoke from his mid-day sleep one evening to the
splash of the fountain, and the scent of the fresh-turned earth

in the vineyard, and found his servant arranging his room for
his toilette. He was to sup that evening at the Cardinal's
with some of the Fathers of the Oratory, and he dressed, as
was usual with him even in his most distracted moods, with
scrupulous care. A sedan was waiting for him, and he set out
for the Cardinal's palace.

It was a brilliant evening ; upon the hill-sides the dark
trees stood out against the golden sky, the domes and pinnacles
of the Churches shone in the evening light. In the
quiet lanes, in the neighbourhood of the Aventine, the perfume
of odoriferous trees was wafted over lofty garden walls ; quiet
figures flitted to and fro, a distant hum of noisy streets scarcely
reached the ear, mingled with the never-ceasing bells. That
morning, before he went to sleep, Inglesant had been reading
"The Birds" of Aristophanes, with a voluminous commentary
by some old scholar, who had brought together a mass of
various learning upon the subject of grotesque apologue, fable,
and the fanciful representation of the facts and follies of human
life under the characters of animals and of inanimate objects.
A vast number of examples of curious pantomime and other
stage characters were given, and the idea preserved throughout
that, by such impersonations, the voices of man's existence
were able to speak with clearness and pathos, and were more
sure of being Hastened to than when they assumed the guise
of a teacher or divine. Beneath a grotesque and unexpected
form they conceal a gravity more sober than seriousness itself,
as irony is more sincere than the solemnity which it parodies.
Truth drops her stilted gait, and becomes natural and real, in
the midst of ludicrous and familiar events. The broad types
of life's players into which the race is divided, especially the
meanest, — thieves, beggars, outcasts, — with whom life is a reality
stripped of outward show, will carry a moral and a teaching
more aptly than the privileged and affected classes. Mixed
with these are animals and familiar objects of household life,



to which everyday use has given a character of their own.
These, not in the literal repulsiveness or dulness of their
monotonous existence, but abstracted, as the types or emblems
of the ideas associated with each one — not a Literal beggar, in
his dirt and loathsomeness, but poverty, freedom, helplessness,
and amusing knavery, personified in the part of a beggar — nota
mere article of household use in its inanimate stupidity, but
every idea and association connected with the use of such
articles by generations of men and women ; — these and such
as these, enlivened by the sparkle of genius, set forth in gay
and exquisite music, and by brilliant repartee and witty dialogue,
certainly cannot be far behind the very foremost delineation
of human life.

Educated in the Court of King Charles to admire Shakespeare
and the Elizabethan stage, Inglesant was better able to
understand these things than the Italians were, suggestive as
the Italian life itself was of such reflections. The taste for
music and scenery had driven dialogue and character from the
stage. Magnificent operas, performed by exquisite singers,
and accompanied by mechanical effects of stupendous extent,
were almost the only scenic performances fashionable in Italy ;
but this was of less consequence where every street was a
stage, and every festival an elaborate play. The Italians were
pantomimic and dramatic in the highest degree without perceiving
it themselves. The man who delights in regarding
this life as a stage cannot attach an overwhelming importance
to any incident ; he observes Hfe as a spectator, and does not
engage in it as an actor ; but the Italian was too impetuous
to do this — he took too violent an interest in the events
themselves.

The narrow streets through which Inglesant's chair passed
terminated at last in a wide square. It was full of confused
figures, presenting to the eye a dazzling movement of form and
colour, of which last, owing to the evening light, the prevailing

tint was blue. A brilliant belt of sunset radiance, like molten
gold along the distant horizon, threw up the white houses into
strong relief. Dark cypress trees rose against the glare of the
yellow sky, tinged with blue from the fathomless azure above.
The white spray of fountains flashed high over the heads of
the people in the four corners of the square, and long lance-like
gleams of light shot from behind the cypresses and the
white houses, refracting a thousand colours in the flashing
water. A murmur of gay talk filled the air, and a constant
change of varied form perplexed the eye.

Inglesant alighted from his chair, and, directing his servants
to proceed at once to the Cardinal's, crossed the square on
foot. Following so closely on his previous dreamy thoughts,
he was intensely interested and touched by this living pantomime.
Human life had never before seemed to him so
worthy of regard, whether looked at as a whole, inspiring
noble and serious reflections, or viewed in detail when each
separate atom appears pitiful and often ludicrous. The infinite
distance between these two poles, between the aspirations
and the exhortations of conscience, which have to do with
humanity as a whole, and the actual circumstances and capacities
of the individual, with which satirists and humorist have
ever made free to jest, — this contrast, running through every
individual life as well as through the mass of existence, seemed
to him to be the true field of humour, and the real science of
those " Humanities" which the schools pedantically professed
to teach.

Nothing moved in the motley crowd before him but what
illustrated this science, — the monk, the lover, the soldier, the
improvisatore, the matron, the young girl ; here the childish
hand brandishing its toy, there the artisan, and the shop girl,
and the maid-servant, seeking such enjoyment as their confined
life afforded j the young boyish companions with interlaced
arms, the benignant priest, every now and then the stately

carriage slowly passing by to its place on the corso, or to the
palace or garden to which its inmates were bound.

Wandering amid this brilliant fantasia of Use, Inglesant's
heart smote him for the luxurious sense of pleasure which he
found himself taking in the present movement and aspect of
things. Doubtless this human philosophy, if we may so call
it, into which he was drifting, has a tendency, at least, very
different from much of the teaching which is the same in every
school of religious thought. Love of mankind is inculcated asa
sense of duty by every such school ; but by this is certainly
not intended love of and acquiescence in mankind as it is.
This study of human life, however, this love of human existence,
is unconnected with any desire for the improvement
either of the individual or of the race. It is man as he is, not
man as he might be, or as he should be, which is a delightful
subject of contemplation to this tolerant philosophy which
human frailty finds so attractive. Man's failings, his self-inflicted
miseries, his humours, the effect of his very crimes
and vices, if not even those vices themselves, form a chief part
in the changing drama upon which the student's eyes are so
eagerly set, and without these it would lose its interest and
attraction. A world of perfect beings would be to such a man
of all things the most stale and unprofitable. Humour and
pathos, the grotesque contrast between a man's aspirations and
his actual condition, his dreams and his mean realities, would
be altogether wanting in such a world. Indignation, sorrow,
satire, doubt, and restlessness, allegory, the very soul and vital
salt of fife, would be wanting in such a world. But if a man
does not desire a perfect world, what part can he have in the
Christian warfare? It is true that an intimate study of a
world of sin and of misfortune throws up the sinless character
of the Saviour into strong relief ; but the student accepts this
Saviour's character and mission as part of the phenomena of
existence, not as an irreconcilable crusade and battle-cry

against the powers of the world on every hand. The study of
life is indeed equally possible to both schools \ but the pleased
acquiescence in life as it is, with all its follies and fantastic
pleasures, is surely incompatible with following the footsteps of
the Divine Ascetic who trod the wine-press of the wrath of
God. With all their errors, they who rejected the world and
all its allurements, and taught the narrow life of painful self-denial,
must be more nearly right than this.

Nevertheless, even before this last thought was completely
formed in his mind, the sight of the moving people, and of the
streets of the wonderful city opening out on every side, full of
palaces and glittering shops and stalls, and crowded with life
and gaiety, turned his halting choice back again in the opposite
direction, and he thought something Uke this : —

How useless and even pitiful is the continued complaint
of moralists and divines, to whom none lend an ear, whilst
they endeavour, age after age, to check youth and pleasure,
and turn the current of life and nature backward on its course.
For how many ages in this old Rome, as in every other city,
since Terence gossipped of the city Hfe, has this frail faulty
humanity for a few hours sunned itself on warm afternoons in
sheltered walks and streets, and comforted itself into life and
pleasure, amid all its cares and toils and sins. Out of this
shifting phantasmagoria comes the sound of music, always
pathetic and sometimes gay ; amid the roofs and belfries peer
the foliage of the public walks, the stage upon which, in every
city, life may be studied and taken to heart; not far from
these walks is, in every city, the mimic stage, the glass in
which, in every age and climate, human life has seen itself
reflected, and has delighted, beyond all other pleasures, in
pitying its own sorrows, in learning its own story, in watching
its own fantastic developments, in foreshadowing its own fate,
in smiling sadly for an hour over the still more fleeting representation
of its own fleeting joys. For ever, without any

change, the stream flows on, spite of moralist and divine, the
same as when Phaedra and Thais loved each other in old
Rome. We look back on these countless ages of city life,
cooped in narrow streets and alleys and paved walks, breathing
itself in contained courts and shaded arcades, where
youth and manhood and old age have sought their daily sustenance
not only of bread but of happiness, and have with
difficulty and toil enough found the one and caught fleeting
glimpses of the other, between the dark thunder clouds, and
under the weird, wintry sky of many a life. Within such a
little space how much life is crowded, what high hopes, how
much pain ! From those high windows behind the flower-pots
young girls have looked out upon life, which their instincts
told them was made for pleasure, but which year after year
convinced them was, somehow or other, given over to pain.
How can we read this endless story of humanity with any
thought of blame ? How can we watch this restless quivering
human life, this ceaseless effort of a finite creature to attain to
those things which are agreeable to its created nature, alike in
all countries, under all climates and skies, and whatever change
of garb or semblance the long course of years may bring, with
any other thought than that of tolerance and pity — tolerance
of every sort of city existence, pity for every kind of toil and
evil, year after year repeated, in every one of earth's cities,
full of human life and handicraft, and thought and love and
pleasure, as in the streets of that old Jerusalem over which the

Saviour wept."

*****

The conversation that evening at the Cardinal's villa turned
upon the antiquities of Rome. The chief delight of the
Fathers of the Oratory was in music, but the Cardinal preferred
conversation, especially upon Pagan literature and art.
He was an enthusiast upon every subject connected with the
Greeks, — art, poetry, philosophy, religion ; upon all these he
VOL. II. . H

founded theories and deductions which showed not only an
intimate acquaintance with Greek Literature, but also a deep
familiarity with the human heart. A lively imagination and
eloquent and polished utterance enabled him to extract from
the baldest and most obscure myths and fragments of antiquity
much that was fascinating, and, being founded on a true insight
into human nature, convincing also.

Inglesant especially sympathized with and understood the
tone of thought and the line of reasoning with which the
Cardinal regarded Pagan antiquity ; and this appreciation
pleased the Cardinal, and caused him to address much of his
conversation directly to him.

The villa was full of objects by which thought and conversation
were attracted to such channels. The garden was
entered by a portico or door-case adorned with ancient statues,
the volta or roof of which was painted with classic subjects,
and the lofty doors themselves were covered with similar ones
in relief The walls of the house, towards the garden, were
cased with bas-reliefs, — " antique incrustations of history " the
Cardinal called them, — representing the Rape of Europa, of
Leda, and other similar scenes. These antique stones and
carvings were fitted into the walls between the rich pilasters
and cornicing which adorned the front of the villa, and the
whole was crossed with tendrils of citron and other flowering
shrubs, trained with the utmost art and nicety, so as to soften
and ornament without concealing the sculpture. The gardens
were traversed by high hedges of myrtle, lemon, orange, and
juniper, interspersed with mulberry trees and oleanders, and
were planted with wide beds of brilliant flowers, according to
the season, now full of anemones, ranunculuses, and crocuses.
The whole was formed upon terraces, fringed with balustrades
of marble, over which creeping plants were trained with the
utmost skill, only leaving sufficient stone-work visible to reeve
the foliage. The walks were full of statues and pieces of



carving in relief. The rooms were ornamented in the same
taste, and the chimney of the one in which the supper was laid
was enriched with sculpture of wonderful grace and delicacy.

One of the Fathers of the Oratory asked Inglesant whether
he had seen the Venus of the Medical palace, and what he
thought of it compared with the Venus of the Fames ; and
when he had replied, the other turned to the Cardinal and
inquired whether, in his opinion, the Greeks had any higher
meaning or thought in these beautiful delineations of human
form than mere admiration and pleasure.

"The higher minds among them assuredly," said the
Cardinal; "but in another and more important sense everyone
of them, even the most unlettered peasant who gazed
upon the work, and the most worldly artist buried in the mere
outward conceptions of his art, were consciously or unconsciously
following, and even worshipping, a divinity and a
truth than which nothing can be higher or more universal.
For the truth was too powerful for them, and so universal that
they could not escape. Human life, in all the phases of its
beauty and its deformity, is so instinct with the divine nature,
that, in merely following its variety, you are learning the highest
lessons, and teaching them to others."

"^Vhat may you understand by being instinct with the
divine nature?" said the Priest, not unnaturally.

I mean that general consensus and aggregate of truth in
which human nature and all that is related to it is contained.
That divine idea, indeed, in which all the facts of human life
and experience are drawn together, and exalted to their utmost
perfection and refinement, and are seen and felt to form a whole
of surpassing beauty and nobleness, in which the divine image
and plastic power in man is clearly discerned and intellectually
received and appropriated."

The Priest did not seem altogether to understand this, and
remained silent.

But," said Inglesant, " much of this pursuit of the beautiful
must have been associated, in the ideas of the majority
of the people, with thoughts and actions the most unlovely
and undesirable according to the intellectual reason, however
delightful to the senses."

Even in these orgies," replied the Cardinal, " in the most
profligate and wild excesses of license, I see traces of this all-pervading
truth ; for the renouncing of all bound and limit is
in itself a truth, when any particular good, though only sensual,
is freed and perfected. This is, no doubt, what the higher
natures saw, and it was this that reconciled them to the License
of the people and of the unilluminated. In all these aberrations
they saw ever fresh varieties and forms of that truth which,
when it was intellectually conceived, it was their greatest
enjoyment to contemplate, and which, no doubt, formed the
material of the instructions which the initiated into the mysteries
received. It is impossible that this could be otherwise,
for there can be no philosophy if there be no human life from
which to derive it. The intellectual existence and discourses
of Socrates cannot be understood, except when viewed in connection
with the sensual and common existence and carnal
wisdom of Aristophanes, any more than the death of the one
can be understood without we also understand the popular
thought and feeling delineated to us by the other. And why
should we be so ungrateful as to turn round on this ' beast
within the man,' if you so choose to call it, — the human body
and human delight to which we owe not only our own existence
and all that makes life desirable, but also that very loftiness
and refinement of soul, that elevated and sublime philosophy,
which could not exist but for the contrast and antithesis
which popular life presents ? Surely it is more philosophical
to take in the whole of life, in every possible form, than to
shut yourself up in one doctrine, which, while you fondly dream
you have created it, and that it is capable of self-existence, is

dependent for its very being on that human life from which
5'ou have fled, and which you despise. This is the whole
secret of the pagan doctrine, and the key to those profound
views of Hfe which were evolved in their religion. This is the
worship of Priapus, of human life, in which nothing comes
amiss or is to be staggered at, however voluptuous or sensual,
for all things are but varied manifestations of life ; of life,
ruddy, delicious, full of fruits, basking in sunshine and plenty,
dyed with the juice of grapes ; of life in valleys cooled by
snowy peaks, amid vineyards and shady fountains, among
which however, ' Saepe Faunorum voces exauditae, saepe vise
forms Decorums'"

This, Signore Inglesant," said the Priest, passing the wine
across the table, with a smile, " is somewhat even beyond the
teaching of your friends of the society of the Gesu ; and would
make their doctrine even, excellently as it already suits that
purpose, still more propitious towards the frailty of men."

Inglesant filled his glass, and drank it off before he replied.
The wine was of the finest growth of the delicious Allan
vineyards ; and as the nectar coursed through his veins, a
luxurious sense of acquiescence stole over him. The warm
air, laden with perfume from the shaded windows, lulled his
sense ; a stray sunbeam lighted the piles of fruit and the
deeply embossed gold of the service on the table before him,
and the mellow paintings and decorated ceiling of the room.
As he slowly drank his wine the memory of Serenus de Cressy,
and of his doctrine of human life, rose before his mind, and
his eyes were fixed upon the deep-coloured wine before him, as
though he saw there, as in a magic goblet, the opposing powers
that divide the world. It seemed to him that he had renounced
his right to join in the conflict, and that he must remain as
ever a mere spectator of the result ; nevertheless he said, —

Your doctrine is delightful to the philosopher and to the
man of culture, who has his nature under the curb, and his

glance firmly fixed upon the goal ; but to the vulgar it is death ;
and indeed it was death until the voice of another God was
heard, and the form of another God was seen, not in vineyards
and rosy bowers, but in deserts and stony places, in
dens and caves of the earth, and in prisons and on crosses of
wood."

It is treason to the idea of cultured life," said the Cardinal,
to evoke such gloomy images. My theory is at least free from
such faults of taste."

Do not fear me," said Inglesant ; " I have no right to
preach such a lofty religion. An asceticism I never practised
it would ill-become me to advocate."

You spoke of the death of Socrates," said the Priest ;
does this event fall within the all-embracing tolerance of your
theory?"

*' The death of Socrates," said the Cardinal, " appears to have
been necessary to preserve the framework of ordinary every-day
society from falling to pieces. At any rate men of good judgment
in that day thought so, and they must have known best.
You must remember that it was Socrates that was put to death,
not Plato, and we must not judge by what the latter has left us
of what the former taught. The doctrine of Socrates was
purely negative, and undermined the principle of belief not
only in the Gods but in everything else. His dialectic was
excellent and noble, his purpose pure and exalted, the clearing
of men's mind's of false impressions ; but to the common fabric
of society his method was destruction. So he was put to death,
unjustly of course, and contrary to the highest law, but according
to the lower law of expediency, justly ; for society must preserve
itself even at the expense of its noblest thinkers. But," added
the Cardinal with a smile, " we have only to look a little way fora
parallel. It is not, however, a perfect one ; for while the
Athenians condemned Socrates to a death painless and dignified,
the moderns have burnt Servetus, whose doctrine contained

nothing dangerous to society, but turned on a mere point of the
schools, at the stake"'

Why do they not burn you, Cardinal ? " said one of the
Oratories, who had not yet spoken, a very intimate friend of
the master of the house,

They do not know whom to begin with in Rome," he
replied; " if they once commenced to burn, the holocaust would
be enormous before the sacrifice was complete."

I would they would burn Donna 01}mipia," said the same
Priest j " is it true that she has returned ?"

Have patience," said the Cardinal; '' from what I hear you
will not have long to wait."

I am glad you believe in purgatory," said the Priest who
had spoken first. " I did not know that your Eminence was so
orthodox. "

*' You mistake. I do not look so far. I am satisfied with
the purgatory of this life. I merely meant that I fear we shall
not long have his Holiness among us."

The moderns have burnt others besides Servetus," said
one of the guests — " Vaninus, for instance."

I did not instance Vaninus," said the Cardinal, " because
his punishment was more justifiable, and nearer to that of
Socrates. Vaninus taught atheism, which is dangerous to society,
and he courted his death. I suppose, Mr. Inglesant, that your
bishops would burn Mr. Hobbes if they dared."

I know Httle of the Anglican bishops. Eminence," replied
Inglesant ; " but from that little I should imagine that it is not
impossible."

What does Mr. Hobbes teach ?" said one of the party.

The Cardinal looked at Inglesant, who shook his head.

What he teaches would require more skill than I possess
to explain. What they would say that they burnt him for would
be for teaching atheism and the universality of matter. I fancy
that it is at least doubtful whether even Vaninus meant to deny

the existence of God. I have been told that he was merely an
enthusiastic naturalist, who could see nothing but nature, which
was his god. But as for Mr. Hobbes's opinions, he seems to me
to have proclaimed a third authority in addition to the two which
already claimed the allegiance of the world. We had first the
authority of a Church, then of a book, now Mr. Hobbes asserts
the authority of reason; and the supporters of the book, even
more fiercely than those of the Church, raise a clamour against
him. His doctrines are very insidiously and cautiously expressed,
and it proves the acuteness of the Anglican divines
that they have detected, under the plausible reasoning of Mr.
Hobbes, the basis of a logical argument which would, if unconfined,
destroy the authority of Holy Scripture."

The Cardinal looked at Inglesant curiously, as though uncertain
whether he was speaking in good faith or not, but the
subject did not seem to possess great interest to the company
at table, and the conversation took another turn.

CHAPTER VI.

SOME few days after the conversation at the Cardinal's
villa, Inglesant received his first commission as an agent
of the Society of the Gesu. He was invited to sup with the
Superior of the English Jesuits, Father Stafford, at the college
called St. Thomas degli Angles. After the meal, over which
nothing was spared to render it delicious, and during the
course of which the Superior exerted himself to please, the
latter said, —

I am instructed to offer you a commission, which, if I
mistake not, will both prove very interesting to you, and will
also be of advantage to your interests. You are probably
acquainted with the story of the old Duke of Umbria. You
have heard that, wearied with age, and tired of the world, he
resigned the dukedom to his son, his only child, the object of
all his hopes and the fruit of careful training and instruction.
This son, far from realizing the brilliant hopes of his father,
indulged in every kind of riot and debauchery, and finally died
young, worn out before his time. The old Duke, brokenhearted
by this blow, has virtually made over the succession to
the Holy Father, and lives now, alone and silent in his magnificent
palace, caring for no worldly thing, and devoting all
his thoughts to religion and to his approaching end. He is unhappy
in the prospect of his dissolution, and the only persons
who are admitted to his presence are those who promise him
any comfort in the anticipation, or any clearness in the vision,
of the future life. Quacks and impostors of every kind, priests

and monks and fanatics, are admitted freely, and trouble this
miserable old man, and drive him into intolerable despair. To
give to this old man, whose Use of probity, of honour, of devotion
to his people, of conscientious rectitude, is thus miserably
rewarded — to give some comfort to this miserable victim of a
jealousy which the superstitious miscall that of heaven, is a
mission which the ethereal chivalry of the soul will eagerly
embrace. It is one, I may say without flattery, for which I hold
you singularly fitted. A passionate religious fervour, such as
yours, combined in the most singular manner with the freest
speculative opinions, and commended by a courteous grace,
will at once soothe and strengthen this old man's shattered
intellect, distracted and tormented and rapidly sinking into
imbecility and dotage."

Father Stafford paused and filled his glass ; then passing
the wine to Inglesant, he continued, half carelessly, —

I said that the Duke had virtually made over the succession
of his State to the Papal See ; but this has not been formally
ratified, and there has arisen some hesitation and difficulty respecting
it. Some of the unsuitable advisers to whom the Duke
in his mental weakness has unfortunately lent an ear, have
endeavoured to persuade him that the interests of his people
will be imperilled by their country being placed under the mild
and beneficent rule of the Holy Father. We hear something of
a Lutheran, who, by some unexplained means, has obtained
considerable influence with this unhappy old man ; and we are
informed that there is great danger of the Duke's hesitating so
long before he completes the act of succession, that his death
may occur before it is complete. You will of course exert the
influence which I hope and expect that you will soon gain at
the ducal Court, to hasten this consummation, so desirable for
the interests of the people, of the Papacy, and of the Duke
himself."

Inglesant had listened to this communication with great

interest. The prospect which the earlier part of it had opened
before him was in many respects an attractive one, and the
flattering words of the Superior were uttered in a tone of sincerity
which made them very pleasant to hear. The description
of the Duke's condition offered to him opportunities of mental
study of absorbing interest, and the characters of those by
whom he was surrounded would no doubt present combinations
and varieties of singular and unusual curiosity. It must not be
denied, moreover, that there entered into his estimate of the
proposal made to him somewhat of the prospect of luxurious
and courtly life — of that soft clothing, both of body and spirit,
which they who live in kings' houses wear. It is difficult
indeed for one who has been long accustomed to refined and
dainty living, where every sense is trained and strengthened by
the fruition it enjoys, to regard the future altogether with indifference
in respect to these things. The palace of the Duke was
notorious throughout all Italy for the treasures of art which
it contained, though its master in his old age was become indifferent
to such delights. But though these thoughts passed
through his mind as the Superior was speaking, Inglesant was
too well versed in the ways of Courts and Ecclesiastics not to
know that there was something more to come, and to attend
carefully for its development. The latter part of the Superior's
speech produced something even of a pleasurable amusement,
as the skilfully executed tactics of an opponent are pleasing to
a good player either at cards or chess. The part which he was
now expected to play, the side which he was about to espouse,
taken in connection with the difficulties and impressions which
had perplexed him since he had arrived in Italy, and which
had .not been removed by what he had seen in Rome
itself, corresponded so exactly with the scheme which, to his
excited imagination, was being spiritually developed for his
destruction — a morbid idea, possibly, which the lofty beneficence
of Molinos's doctrine had only partially removed — that its

appearance and recognition actually provoked a smile. But
the smile, which the Superior noticed and entirely misunderstood,
was succeeded by uneasiness and depression. There was,
however, little hesitation and no apparent delay in Inglesant's
manner of acceptance. The old habit of implicit obedience was
far from obliterated or even weakened, and though Father St.
Clare was not present the supreme motive of his influence was
not unfelt. He had chosen his part when in Paris he had
turned his back upon De Cressy, and accepted the Jesuit's
offer of the mission to Rome. He had lived in Rome, had
been received and countenanced and entertained as one who
had accepted the service of those who had so courteously and
hospitably treated him, and it was far too late now, when the
first return was expected of him, to draw back or to refuse. To
obey was not only a recognized duty, it was an instinct which
not only long training but experience even served to strengthen.
He assured the Superior that he was perfectly ready to set out.
He assured himself indeed that it was not necessary to come to
a decision at that moment, and that he should be much better
able to decide upon his course of conduct when he had seen
the Duke himself, and received more full instructions from
Rome.

The Superior informed Inglesant that he would be expected
to visit Umbria as a gentleman of station, and offered to provide
the necessary means. Inglesant contented himself with declining
this offer for the present. Since his arrival at Rome he had
received considerable sums of money from England, the result
of Lady Cardiff's bounty, and the Cardinal's purse was open to
him in several indirect ways. He provided himself with the
necessary number of servants, horses, and other conveniences,
and some time, as would appear, after Easter, he arrived at
Umbria.

On his journey, as he rode along in the wonderful clear
morning light, in his "sterna" in the middle of the day, and

when he resumed his journey in the cool of the evening, his
thoughts had been very busy. He remembered his conversation
with the Count Vespasian, and was unable to reconcile
his present mission with the pledge he had given to the Count.
He was more than once inclined to turn back and refuse to
undertake the duty demanded of him. Thoughts of Lauretta,
and of the strange fate that had separated him from her, also
occupied his mind ; and with these conflicting emotions still
unreconciled, he saw at last the white facade of the palace
towering above the orange groves, and the houses and pinnacles
of the city.

The ducal palace at Umbria is a magnificent example of
the Renaissance style. It is impossible to dwell in or near
this wonderful house without the life becoming affected, and
even diverted from its previous course, by its imperious influence.
The cold and mysterious power of the classic architecture
is wedded to the rich and libertine fancy of the Renaissance,
treading unrestrained and unabashed the maze of nature and
of phantasy, and covering the classic purity' of outline with its
exquisite tracer' of fairy life. Over door and window and
pilaster throng and cling the arabesque carvings of foliage and
fruit, of graceful figures in fantastic forms and positions, — all
of infinite variety ; all full of originally, of Hfe, of motion, and
of character ; all of exquisite beauty both of design and workmanship.
The effect of the whole is lightness and joy, while
the eye is charmed and the sense filled with a luxurious satisfaction
at the abounding wealth of beauty and lavish imagination.
But together with this delight to eye and sense there
is present to the mind a feeling, not altogether painless, of
oppressive luxury and of the mating of incongruous forms,
arousing as it were an uneasy conscience, and affecting the
soul somewhat as the overpowering perfume of tropical vegetation
affects the senses. To dwell in this palace was to breathe
an enchanted air j and as the wandering prince of story loses

his valour and strength in the magic castles into which he
strays, so here the indweller, whose intellect was mastered by
the genius of the architecture, found his simplicity impaired,
his taste becoming more sensuous and less severely chaste,
and his senses lulled and charmed by the insidious and enervating
spirit that pervaded the place.

At his first presentation Inglesant found the Duke seated
in a small room fitted as an oratory or closet, and opening by
a private door into the ducal pew in the Chapel. His person
was bowed and withered by age and grief, but his eye was
clear and piercing, and his intellect apparently unimpaired.
He regarded his visitor with an intense and scrutinizing gaze,
which lasted for several minutes, and seemed to indicate some
suspicion. There was, however, about Inglesant's appearance
and manner something so winning and attractive, that the old
man's eyes gradually softened, and the expression of distrust
that made his look almost that of a wild and hunted creature,
changed to one of comparative satisfaction and repose. It is
true that he regarded with pleasure and hope every new-comer,
from whom he expected to derive consolation and advice.

Inglesant expected that he would inquire of the news of
Rome, of the Pope's health, and such-like matters; but he
seemed to have no curiosity concerning such things. After
waiting for some time in silence he said, —

Anthony Genera tells us that we ought to address men
who are under thirty with ' You are welcome,' or ' You come
in a good hour,' because at that time of life they seem to becoming
into the world ; from thirty to fifty we ought to greet
them with ' God keep you,' or ' Stand in a good hour ; ' and
from fifty onwards, with ' God speed you,' or 'Go in a good
hour,' for from thence they go taking their leave of the world.
The first is easy to say, and the wish not unlikely to be fulfilled,
but the last who shall ensure ? You come in a good
hour, graceful as an Apollo, to comfort a miserable old man ;

can you assure me that, when I pass out of this world, I shall
depart likewise at a propitious time ? I am an old man, and
that unseen world which should be so familiar and near tome
seems so far off and yet so terrible. A young man steps
into life as into a dance, confident of his welcome, pleased
himself and pleasing others ; the stage to which he comes is
bright with flowers, soft music sounds on every side. So ought
the old man to enter into the new life, confident of his welcome,
pleasing to his Maker and his God, the heavenly minstrelsy
in his ears. But it is far otherwise with me. I may lay me
down in the 'angelica Testis,' the monkish garment that
ensures the prayers of holy men for the departing soul ; but
who will secure me the wedding garment that ensures admission
to the banquet above ? '"'

Do you find no comfort in the Blessed Sacrament,
Altezza?" said Inglesant.

Sometimes I may fancy so ; but I cannot see the figure
of the Christ for the hell that lies between."

Ah ! Altezza," said Inglesant, his eyes full of pity, not
only for the old Duke, but for himself and all mankind, 'sit is
always thus. Something stands between us and the heavenly
life. My temptation is other than yours. Communion after
communion I find Christ, and He is gracious to me — gracious
as the love of God Himself; but month after month and year
after year I find not how to follow Him, and when the road is
opened to me I am deaf, and refuse to answer to the heavenly
call. You, Altezza, are in more hopeful case than I ; for it
seems to me that your Highness has but to throw off that
blasphemous superstition which is found in all Christian creeds
alike, which has not feared to blacken even the shining gates
of heaven with the smoke of hell,"

All creeds are alike," said the Duke with a shudder, " but
mostly your northern religions, harsh and bitter as your skies.
I have heard from a Lutheran a system of religion that made

my blood run cold, the more as it commends itself to my
calmer reason."

'rand that is, Altezza?" said Inglesant.

This, that so far from the Sacrament of Absolution upon
earth, or at the hour of death, availing anything, God Himself
has no power to change the state of those who die without
being entirely purified from every trace of earthly and sensual
passion ; to such as these, though otherwise sincere Christians,
nothing awaits but a long course of suffering in the desolate
regions of Hades, as the Lutheran calls it, until, if so may bethe
earthly idea is annihilated and totally obliterated from the
heart."

"This seems little different from the doctrine of the
Church," said Inglesant.

It is different in this most important part," replied the
Duke, " that Holy Church purifies and pardons her penitent,
though he feels the passions of earth strong within him till the
last ; but by this system you must eradicate these yourself.
You must purify your heart, you must feel every carnal lust,
every vindictive thought, every lofty and contemptuous notion,
utterly dead within you before you can enjoy a moment's expectation
of future peace. He that goes out of this world
with an uncharitable thought against his neighbour does so
with the chances against him that he is lost for ever, for his
face is turned from the light, and he enters at once upon the
devious and downward walks of the future life ; and what
ground has he to expect that he who could not keep his steps
in this life will find any to turn him back, or will have power
to turn himself back, from every growing evil in the world to
come?"

As the Duke spoke it seemed to Inglesant that these words
were addressed to him alone, and that he saw before him the
snare of the Devil, bated with the murderer of his brother,
stretched before his heedless feet for his eternal destruction.

The Duke took up a book that lay by him, and read, —

*' The soul that cherishes the slightest animosity, and takes
this feeling into eternity, cannot be happy, though in other
respects pious and faithful. Bitterness is completely opposed
to the nature and constitution of heaven. The blood of Christ,
who on the cross, in the midst of the most excruciating torments,
exercised love instead of bitterness, cleanses from this sin also,
when it flows in our veins."

I see nothing in this, Altezza," said Inglesant eagerly, " but
what is in accordance with the doctrines of the Church. This is
that idea of sacramental purification, that Christ's Body being
assimilated to ours purifies and sanctifies. His Body, being
exalted at that supreme moment and effort (the moment of His
suffering death), to the highest purity of temper and of sweetness
by the perfect love and holiness which pervaded His spirit,
has been able ever since, in all ages, through the mystery of the
Blessed Sacrament, to convert all its worthy recipients in some
degree to the same pure and holy state. Many things which
men consider misfortunes and painful experiences are in fact
but the force of this divine influence, assimilating their hearts
to His, and attempting their bodies to the lofty purity of His
own. This is the master work of the Devil, that he should
lure us into states of mind, as the book says, of bitterness and
of violence, by which this divine sweetness is tainted, and this
peace broken by suspicion, by hatred, and heat of blood."

The book says somewhere," said the Duke, turning over the
leaves, " that, as the penitent thief rose from the cross to
Paradise, so we, if we long after Christ with all the powers of
our souls, shall, at the hour of death, rapidly soar aloft from our
mortal remains, and then all fear of returning to earth and
earthly desires will be at an end."

It must surely," said Inglesant after a pause, speaking
more to himself than to the Duke, " be among the things most
surprising to an angelic nature that observes mankind, that,

VOL. II. I

shadows ourselves, standing upon the confines even of this
shadowy land, and not knowing what, if aught, awaits us elsewhere,
hatred or revenge or unkindness should be among the
last passions that are overcome. When the veil is lifted, and
we see things as they really are, nothing will so much amaze us
as the blindness and perversity that marked our life among our
fellow-men. Surely the lofty life is hard, as it seems hard to
your Grace ; but the very effort itself is gain."

Inglesant left the presence of the Duke after his first interview
impressed and softened, but troubled in his mind more
than ever at the nature of the mission on which he was sent.
Now that he had seen the Duke, and had been touched by his
eager questions, and by the earnest searching look in the worn
face, his conscience smote him at the thought of abusing his
confidence, and of persuading him to adopt a course which
Inglesant's own heart warned him might not in the end be
conducive either to his own peace or to the welfare of his
people, whose happiness he sincerely sought. He found that,
in the antechambers and reception rooms of the palace, and
even at the Duke's own table, the principal subject of conversation
was the expected cession of the dukedom to the Papal
See ; and that emissaries from Rome had preceded him, and
had evidently received instructions announcing his arrival, and
were prepared to welcome him as an important ally. On the
other hand, there were not wanting those who openly or
covertly opposed the cession, some of whom were said to be
agents of the Grand Duke of Florence, who was heir to the
Duchy of Umbria through his wife. These latter, whose
opposition was more secret than open, sought every opportunity
of winning Inglesant to their party, employing the usual
arguments with which, since his coming into Italy, he had been
so familiar. Many days passed in this manner, and Inglesant
had repeated conferences with the Duke, during which he made

great progress in his favour, and was himself won by his lofty,
kindly, and trustful character.

He had resided at Umbria a little less than a month, when
he received instructions by a courier from Rome, by which he
was informed that at the approaching festival of the Ascension
a determined effort was to be made by the agents and friends of
the Pope to bring the business to a conclusion. The Duke had
promised to keep this festival, which is celebrated at Venice
and in other parts of Italy with great solemnity, with unusual
magnificence ; and it was hoped that while his feelings were
influenced and his religious instincts excited by the solemn and
tender thoughts and imaginations which gather round the figure
of the ascending Son of man, he might be induced to sign the
deed of cession. Hitherto the Duke had not mentioned the
subject to Inglesant, having found his conversation upon
questions of the spiritual life and practice sufficient to occupy
the time ; but it was not probable that this silence would continue
much longer, and on the first day in Ascension week
Inglesant was attending Vespers at one of the Churches in the
town in considerable anxiety and trouble of mind.

The sun had hardly set, and the fete in the garden was not
yet begun, when, Vespers being over, he came out upon the
river-side lined with stately houses which fronted the palace
gardens towering in terraced walks and trellises of green hedges
on the opposite bank. The sun, setting behind the wooded
slopes, flooded this green hill-side with soft and dream-like light,
and bathed the carved marble facade of the palace, rising above
it with a rosy glimmer, in which the statues on its roof, and the
fretted work of its balustrades, rested against the darkening
blue of the evening sky. A reflex light, ethereal and wonderful,
coming from the sky behind him, and the marble buildings
and towers on which the sun's rays rested more fully than they
did upon the palace, brooded over the river and the bridge
with its rows of angelic forms, and, climbing the leafy slopes.

as if to contrast its softer splendour with the light above,
transfigured with colour the wreaths of vapour which rose from
the river and hung about its wharves.

The people were already crowding out of the city, and
forcing their way across the bridge towards the palace, where
the illuminations and the curious waterworks, upon which the
young Duke had, during his short reign, expended much money,
were to be exhibited as soon as the evening was sufficiently
dark. The people were noisy and jostling, but as usual good-tempered
and easily pleased. Few masques or masquerade
dresses had appeared as yet, but almost every one was armed
with a small trumpet, a drum, or a Samarcand cane, from which
to shoot peas or comfits. At the corner of the main street that
opened on to the quay, however, some disturbing cause was
evidently at work. The crowd was perplexed by two contending
currents, the one consisting of those who were attempting
to turn into the street from the wharf, in order to learn the
cause of the confusion, the other, of those who were apparently
being driven forcibly out of the street, towards the wharves and
the bridge, by pressure from behind. Discordant cries and
exclamations of anger and contempt rose above the struggling
mass. Taking advantage of the current that swept him onward,
Inglesant reached the steps of the Church of St. Felix, which
stood at the corner of the two streets, immediately opposite the
bridge and the ducal lions which flanked the approach. On
reaching this commanding situation the cause of the tumult
presented itself in the form of a small group of men, who were
apparently dragging a prisoner with them, and had at this
moment reached the corner of the wharf, not far from the
steps of the Church, surrounded and urged on by a leaping,
shouting, and excited crowd. Seen from the top of the broad
marble bases that flanked the steps, the whole of the wide
space, formed by the confluence of the streets, and over which
the shadows were rapidly darkening, presented nothing but a

sea of agitated and tossing heads, while, from the windows,
the bridge, and even the distant marble terraced steps that
led up to the palace, the crowd appeared curious, and conscious
that something unusual was in progress.

From the cries and aspect of the crowd, and of the men
who dragged their prisoner along, it was evident that it was
the intention of the people to throw the wretched man over
the parapets of the bridge into the river below, and that to
frustrate this intention not a moment was to be lost The
pressure of the crowd, greater from the opposite direction than
from the one in which Inglesant had come, fortunately swept
the group almost to the foot of the steps. Near to Inglesant,
and clinging to the carved bases of the half-columns that supported
the facade of the Church, were two or three priests who
had come out of the interior, attracted by the tumult Availing
himself of their support, Inglesant shouted to the captors
of the unhappy man, in the name of the Church and of the
Duke, to bring their prisoner up the steps. They probably
would not have obeyed him, though they hesitated for a
moment; but the surrounding crowd, attracted towards the
Church by Inglesant's gestures, began to press upon it from all
sides, as he had indeed foreseen would be the case, and finally,
by their unconscious and involuntary motion, swept the prisoner
and his captors up the steps to the side of the priests and of
Inglesant. It was a singular scene. The rapidly advancing
night had changed the golden haze of sunset to a sombre
gloom, but lights began to appear in the houses all around,
and paper lanterns showed themselves among the crowd.

The cause of all this confusion was dragged by his persecutors
up the steps, and placed upon the last of the flight,
confronting the priests. His hair was disordered, his clothes
nearly torn from his limbs, and his face and dress streaked
with blood. Past the curtain across the entrance of the Church,
which was partly drawn back by those inside, a flash of light

shot across the marble platform, and shone upon the faces of the
foremost of the crowd. This light shone full upon Inglesant,
who stood, in striking contrast to the dishevelled figure that
confronted him, dressed in a suit of black satin and silver,
with a deep collar of Point-de-Venice lace. The priests stood
a Httle behind, apparently desirous to learn the nature of the
prisoner's offence before they interfered ; and the accusers
therefore addressed themselves to Inglesant, who, indeed, was
recognized by many as a friend of the Duke, and whom the
priests especially had received instructions from Rome to support.
The confusion in the crowd meanwhile increased rather
than diminished ; there seemed to be causes at work other than
the slight one of the seizure by the mob of an unpopular man.
The town was very full of strangers, and it struck Inglesant
that the arrest of the man before him was merely an excuse,
and was being used by some who had an object to gain by
stirring up the people. He saw, at any rate, however this
might be, a means of engaging the priests to assist him, should
their aid be necessary in saving the man's life.

That there was a passionate attachment among the people
to a separate and independent government of their city and
state, an affection towards the family of their hereditary dukes,
and a dread and jealous dislike of the Pope's government and
of the priests, he had reason to believe. It seemed to him that
the people were about to break forth into some demonstration
of this antipathy, which, if allowed to take place, and if taken
advantage of, as it would be, by the neighbouring princes,
would be most displeasing to the policy of Rome, if not entirely
subversive of it. With these thoughts in his mind, as he stood
for a moment silent on the marble platform, and saw before
him, what is perhaps the most impressive of all sights, a vast
assemblage of people in a state of violent and excited opposition,
and reflected on the causes which he imagined agitated
them, — causes which in his heart he, though enlisted on the

opposite side, had difficulty in persuading himself were not
justifiable, — it came into his mind more powerfully than ever,
that the moment foretold to him by Serenus de Cressy was at
last indeed come. Surely it behoved him to look well to his
steps, lest he should be found at last absolutely and unequivocally
fighting against his conscience and his God ; if, indeed,
this looking well to their steps on such occasions, and not
boldly choosing their side, had not been for many years the
prevailing vice of his family, and to some extent the cause of
his own spiritual failure.

The two men who held the apparent cause of all this
uproar were two mechanics of jovial aspect, who appeared to
look upon the affair more in the light of a brutal practical joke
(no worse in their eyes for its brutality), than as a very serious
matter. To Inglesant's question what the man had done they
answered that he had refused to kneel to the Blessed Sacrament,
as it was being carried through the streets to some poor,
dying soul, and upon being remonstrated with, had reviled
not only the Sacrament itself, but the Virgin, the Holy Father,
and the Italians generally, as Papistical asses, with no more
sense than the Pantaloon of their own comedies. The men
gave this evidence in an insolent half-jesting manner, as though
not sorry to utter such words safely in the presence of the
priests.

Inglesant, who kept his eyes fixed upon the prisoner, and
noticed that he was rapidly recovering from the breathless and
exhausted condition the ill-treatment he had met with had
reduced him to, and was assuming a determined and somewhat
noble aspect, abstained from questioning him, lest he
should make his own case only the more desperate ; but, turning
to the priests, he rapidly explained his fears to them, and
urged that the man should be immediately secured from the
people, that he might be examined by the Duke, and the result
forwarded to Rome. The priests hesitated. Apart from the

difficulty, they said, of taking the man out of the hands of his
captors, such a course would be sure to exasperate the people
still further, and bring on the very evil that he was desirous of
averting. It would be better to let the mob work their will
upon the man ; it would at least occupy some time, and every
moment was precious. In less than an hour the fireworks at
the palace would begin, might indeed be hastened by a special
messenger; and the fete once begun, they hoped all danger
would be over. To this Inglesant answered that the man's
arrest was evidently only an excuse for riot, and had probably
already answered its purpose ; that to confine the people's attention
to it would be unfavourable to the intentions of those who
were promoting a political tumult ; and that the avowed cause
of the man's seizure, and of the excitement of the mob, being
disrespectful language towards the Holy Father, the tumult, if
properly managed, might be made of service to the cause of
Rome rather than the reverse.

Without waiting for the effect of this somewhat obscure
argument on the priests, Inglesant directed the men who held
their prisoner to bring him into the Church. They were
unwilling to do so, but the crowd below was so confused and
tumultuous, one shouting one thing and one another, that it
seemed impossible that, if they descended into it again, they
would be allowed to retain their prey, and would not rather be
overwhelmed in a common destruction with him. On the
other hand, by obeying Inglesant, they at least kept possession
of their prisoner, and could therefore scarcely fail of receiving
some reward from the authorities. They therefore consented,
and by a sudden movement they entered the Church, the doors
of which were immediately closed, after some few of the populace
had managed to squeeze themselves in. A messenger
was at once despatched to the palace to hasten the fireworks,
and to request that a detachment of the Duke's guard should
be sent into the Church by a back way.

The darkness had by this time so much increased that few
of the people were aware of what had taken place, and the
ignorance of the crowd as to the cause of the tumult was so
general that little disturbance took place among those who
were shut out of the Church. They remained howling and
hooting, it is true, for some time, and some went so far as to
beat against the closed doors; but a rumour being spread
among the crowd that the fireworks were immediately to begin,
they grew tired of this unproductive occupation, and flocked
almost to a man out of the square and wharves, and crowded
across the bridge into the gardens.

When the guard arrived, Inglesant claimed the man as the
Duke's prisoner, to be examined before him in the morning.
The curiosity of the Duke in all religious matters being well
known, this seemed very reasonable to the officer of the guard,
and the priests did not like to dispute it after the instructions
they had received with regard to Inglesant's mission. The
two artisans were propitiated by a considerable reward, and
the prisoner was then transported by unfrequented ways to the
palace, and shut up in a solitary apartment, whilst the rest of
the world delighted itself at the palace fetes.

The garden festivities passed away amid general rejoicing
and applause. The finest effect was produced at the conclusion,
when the whole mass of water at the command of the
engines, being thrown into the air in thin fan-like jets, was
illuminated by various coloured lights, producing the appearance
of innumerable rainbows, through which the palace itself,
the orangeries, the gardens, and terraces, and the crowds of
delighted people, were seen illuminated and refracted in varied
and ever-changing tints. Amid these sparkling colours strange
birds passed to and fro, and angelic forms descended by unseen
machinery and walked on the higher terraces, and as it were
upon the flashing rainbows themselves. Delicious music from
unseen instruments ravished the sense, and when the scene

appeared complete and nothing farther was expected, an orange
grove in the centre of the whole apparently burst open, and
displayed the stage of a theatre, upon which antic characters
performed a pantomime, and one of the finest voices in Italy
sang an ode in honour of the day, of the Duke, and of the
Pope.

CHAPTER VII.

THE Duke had engaged the next morning to be present
at a theatrical representation of a religious character,
somewhat of the nature of a miracle play, to be given in the
courtyard of the " Hospital of Death," which adjoined to the
Campo Santo of the city.

Before accompanying his Highness, Inglesant had given
orders to have the man, who had been the cause of so much
excitement the evening before, brought into his apartment,
that he might see whether or no his eccentricity made him
sufficiently interesting to be presented to the Duke.

When the stranger was brought to the palace early in the
morning, and having been found to be quite harmless, was
entrusted by the guard to two servants to be brought into
Inglesant's presence, he thought himself in a new world.
Hitherto his acquaintance with Italian life had been that of a
stranger and from the outside ; he was now to see somewhat
of the interior life of a people among whom the glories of the
Renaissance still lingered, and to see it in one of the most
wonderful of the Renaissance works, the ducal palace of
Umbria. Born in the dull twilight of the north, and having
spent most of his mature years amongst the green mezzotints
of Germany, he was now transplanted into a land of light and
colour, dazzling to a stranger so brought up. Reared in the
sternest discipline, he found himself among a people to whom
life was a fine art, and the cultivation of the present and its
enjoyments the end of existence. From room to room, as he

followed his guide, who pointed out from time to time such of
the beauties of the place as he considered most worthy of
notice, the stranger saw around what certainly might have
intoxicated a less composed and determined brain.

The highest efforts of the genius of the Renaissance had
been expended upon this magnificent house. The birth of a
new instinct, differing in some respects from any instincts of
art which had preceded it, produced in this and other similar
efforts original and wonderful results. The old Greek art
entered with unsurpassable intensity into sympathy with human
life; but it was of necessity original and creative, looking always
forward and not back, and lacked the pathos and depth of
feeling that accompanied that new birth of art which sought
much of its inspiration among the tombs and ruined grottoes,
and most of its sympathetic power among the old well-springs
of human feeling, read in the torn and faded memorials of past
suffering and destruction. This new instinct of art abandoned
itself without reserve to the pursuit of everything which mankind
had ever beheld of the beautiful, or had felt of the pathetic
or the sad, or had dreamed of the noble or the ideal. The
genius of the Renaissance set itself to reproduce this enchanted
world of form and colour, traversed by thoughts and spiritual
existences mysterious and beautiful, and the home of beings
who had found this form and colour and these mysterious
thoughts blend into a human life delicious in its very sorrows,
grotesque and incongruous in its beauty, alluring and attractive
amid all its griefs and hardships \ so much so indeed that, in
the language of the old fables, the Gods themselves could not
be restrained from throwing off their divine garments, and
wandering up and down among the paths and the adventures
of men. By grotesque and humorous delineation, by fanciful
representation of human passion under strange and unexpected
form, by the dumb ass speaking and grasshoppers playing upon
flutes, was this world of intelligent life reproduced in the rooms

and on the walls of the house through which the stranger
walked for the first time.

He probably thought that he saw little of it, yet the bizarre
effect was burning itself into his brain. From the overhanging
chimney-pieces antique masques and figures such as he had
never seen, even in dreams, leered out upon him from arabesque
carvings of foliage, or skulked behind trophies of war,
of music, or of the arts of peace. The door and window frames
seemed bowers of fruit and flowers, and forests of carved leaves
wreathed the pilasters and walls. But this was not all ; with
a perfection of design and an extraordinary power of fancy, this
world of sylvan imagery was peopled by figures and stories of
exquisite grace and sweetness, representing the most touching
incidents of human life and history. Men and women ; lovers
and warriors in conflicts and dances and festivals, in sacrifices
and games; children sporting among flowers; bereavement
and death, husbandry and handicraft, hunters and beasts of
chase. Again, among briony and jasmin and roses, or perched
upon ears of com and sheaves of maize, birds of every plumage
confronted — so the grotesque genius willed — fish and sea
monsters and shells and marine wonders of every kind.

Upon the walls, relieved by panelling of wood, were paintings
of landscapes and the ruined buildings of antiquity overgrown
with moss, or of modem active Hfe in markets and
theatres, of churches and cities in the course of erection with
the architects and scaffold poles, of the processions and marriages
of princes, of the ruin of emperors and of kings.
Below and beside these were credenzas and cabinets upon
which luxury and art had lavished every costly device and
material which the world conceived or yielded. Inlaid with
precious woods, and glittering with costly jewels and marbles,
they reproduced in these differing materials all those infinite
designs which the carved walls had already wearied themselves
to express. Plaques and vases from Castel Durante or Faience,

some of a strange pale colour, others brilliant with a grotesque
combination of blue and yellow, — crowded the shelves.

Passing through this long succession of rooms, the stranger
reached at last a library, a noble apartment of great size, furnished
with books in brilliant antique binding of gold and
white vellum, and otherwise ornamented with as much richness
as the rest of the palace. Upon reading desks were open
manuscripts and printed books richly illuminated. Connected
with this apartment by open arches, was an anteroom or corridor,
which again opened on a loggia, beyond the shady arches
of which lay the palace gardens, long vistas of green walks,
and reaches of blue sky, flecked and crossed by the spray of
fountains. The decorations of the anteroom and loggia were
more profuse and extravagant than any that the stranger had
yet seen. There was a tradition that this portion of the palace
had been finished last, and that when the workmen arrived at
it the time for the completion of the whole was very nearly
run out. The attention of all the great artists, hitherto engaged
upon different parts of the entire palace, was concentrated
upon this unfinished portion, and all their workmen
and assistants were called to labour upon it alone. The work
went on by night and day, not ceasing even to allow of sleep.
Unlimited supplies of Greek wine were furnished to the workmen
; and stimulated by excitement and the love of art, emulating
each other, and half-intoxicated by the delicious wine,
the work exceeded all previous productions. For wild boldness
and luxuriance of fancy these rooms were probably unequalled
in the world.

In the anteroom facing the loggia the stranger found
Inglesant conversing with an Italian who held rather a singular
post in the ducal Court. He was standing before a cabinet
of black oak, inlaid with representations of lutes and fifes,
over which were strewn roses confined by coloured ribbons,
and supporting vases of blue and yellow majolica, thrown into

strong relief by the black wood. Above this cabinet was a
painting representing some battle in which a former Duke had
won great honour ; while on a grassy knoll in the foreground
the huntsman of Ganymede were standing with their eyes
turned upward towards the burt of Zeus, who is carrying the
youth away to the skies, emblematical of the alleged apotheosis
of the ducal hero. Richly dressed in a fantastic suit of striped
silk, and leaning against the cabinet in an attitude of listless
repose, Inglesant was contemplating an object which he held
in his hand, and which both he and his companion appeared
to regard with intense interest. This was an antique statuette
of a faun, holding its tail in its left hand, and turning its head
and body to look at it, — an occupation of which, if we may
trust the monuments of antiquity, this singular creature appears
to have been fond. The Italian was of a striking figure, and
was dressed somewhat more gaily than was customary with his
countrymen ; and the whole group was fully in unison with the
spirit of the place and with the wealth of beauty and luxury
of human life that pervaded the whole.

The man who was standing by Inglesant's side, and who
had the air of a connoisseur or virtuoso, was an Italian of
some fifty years of age. His appearance, as has been said, was
striking at first sight, but on longer acquaintance became very
much more so. He was tall and had been dark, but his hair
and beard were plentifully streaked with gray. His features
were large and aquiline, and his face deeply furrowed and
lined. His appearance would have been painfully worn,
almost to ghastliness, but for a mocking and humorous expression
which laughed from his eyes, his mouth, his nostrils, and
every line and feature of his face. Whenever this expression
subsided, and his countenance sank into repose, a look of wan
sadness and even terror took its place, and the large black
eyes became fixed and intense in their gaze, as though some
appalling object attracted their regard.

This man had been born of a good but poor family, and
had been educated by his relations with the expectation of his
becoming an ecclesiastic, and he had even passed some time
as a novice of some religious order. The tendency of his
mind not leading him to the further pursuit of a religious life,
he left his monastery, and addressed himself to live by his wits,
among the families and households of princes. He had made
himself very useful in arranging comedies and pageantries, and
he had at one time belonged to one of those dramatic companies
called " Anni," who went about the country reciting
and acting comedies. Combined with this talent he discovered
great aptitude in the management of serious affairs, and was
more than once, while apparently engaged entirely on theatrical
performances, employed in secret State negotiations which
could not so well be entrusted to an acknowledged and conspicuous
agent. In this manner of life he might have continued
; but having become involved in one of the contests
which disturbed Italy, he received a dangerous wound in the
head, and on rising from his sick bed in the Alberto in which
he had been nursed, he was merely removed to another as a
singular if not dangerous lunatic. The symptoms of his
disease first manifested themselves in a very unpleasant familiarity
with the secrets of those around him, and it was probably
this feature of his complaint which led to his detention. Ashe
improved in health, however, he ceased to indulge in any
conversation which might give offence, but, assuming a sedate
and agreeable manner, he conversed with all who came to
him, calling them, although strangers and such as he had
never before seen, by their proper names, and talking to them
pleasantly concerning their parents, relations, the coats farms
of their families, and such other harmless and agreeable
matters.

What brought him prominently into notice was the strangely
prophetic spirit he manifested before, or at the moment of the

occurrence of, more than one public event. He was taken
from the hospital and examined by the Pope, and afterwards
at several of the sovereign Courts of Italy. Thus, not long
before the time when Inglesant met him in the ducal palace
at Umbria, he was at Chamberyy assisting at the preparation of
some festivals which the young Duke of Savoy was engaged in
celebrating. One day, as he was seated at dinner with several
of the Duke's servants, he suddenly started up from his seat,
exclaiming that he saw the Duke de Memoirs fall dead from
his horse, killed by a pistol shot. The Duke, who was uncle
to the young monarch of Savoy, was then in France, where he
was one of the leaders of the party of the Fronde. Before
many days were passed, however, the news reached Chamberyy
of the fatal duel between this nobleman and the Duke of
Beaufort, which occurred at the moment the Italian had thus
announced it.

These and other similar circumstances caused the man to
be much talked of and sought after among the courts of Italy,
where a belief in manifestations of the supernatural was
scarcely less universal than in the previous age, when, according
to an eye-witness, " the Pope would decide no question,
would take no journey, hold no sitting of the Consistory, without
first consulting the stars ; nay, very few cardinals would
transact an affair of any kind, were it but to buy a load of
wood, except after consultation duly held with some astrologer
or wizard." The credit which the man gained, and the benefits
he derived from this reputation, raised him many enemies,
who did not scruple to assert that he was simply a clever
knave, who was not even his own dupe. Setting on one side,
however, the revelations of the distant and the unknown made
by him, which seemed inexplicable except by supposing him
possessed of some unusual spiritual faculty, there was in the
man an amount of knowledge of the world and of men of all
classes and ranks, combined with much learning and a humor-vol.

II. K

vous wit, which made his company well worth having for his
conversation alone. It was not then surprising that he should
be found at this juncture at the court of Umbria, where the
peculiar idiosyncrasies of the aged Duke, and the interest
attached to the intrigue for the session of the dukedom,
had assembled a strange and heterogeneous company, and
towards which at the moment all men's eyes in Italy were
turned.

Yes, doubtless, it is an antique," the Italian was saying,
though in the last age many artists produced masques and
figures so admirable as to be mistaken for antiques ; witness
that masque which Messire Georgio Vasari says he put in a
chimney-piece of his house at Arezzo, which every one took
to be an antique. I have seen such myself. This little fellow,
however, I saw found in a vineyard near the Misericordia — a
place which I take to have been at some time or other the
scene of some terrible event, such as a conflict or struggle or
massacre ; for though now it is quiet and serene enough, with
the sunlight and the rustling leaves, and the splash of a fountain
about which there is some good carving, I think of Fra
Giovanni Agnolo, — for all this, I never walk there but I feel the
presence of fatal events, and a sense of dim figures engaged
in conflict, and of faint and distant cries and groans."

As he spoke these last words his eye rested upon the
strange figure of the man so hardly rescued from death the
night before, and he stopped. His manner changed, and his
eyes assumed that expression of intense expectation of which
we have spoken before. The appearance of the stranger, and
the contrast it presented to the objects around, was indeed
such as to make him almost seem an inhabitant of another
world, and one of those phantasms of past conflict of which
the Italian had just spoken. His clothes, which had originally
been of the plainest texture, and most uncourtly make, were
worn and ragged, and stained with damp and dirt. His form

and features were gaunt and uncouth, and his gesture stiff and
awkward; but, with all this, there was a certain steadiness
and dignity about his manner, which threw an appearance of
nobility over this rugged and unpleasing form. Contrasted
with the dress and manner of the other men, he looked like
some enthusiastic prophet, standing in the house of mirth and
luxury, and predicting ruin and woe.

At this moment a servant entered the room, bringing a
sottocoppa of silver, upon which were two or three stiff
necked glasses, called caracas, containing different sorts of
wine, and also water, and one or two more empty drinking-glasses,
so that the visitor could please himself as to the
strength and nature of his beverage. Inglesant offered this
refreshment to the Italian, who filled himself a glass and drank,
pledging Inglesant as he did so. The latter did not drink,
but offered wine and cakes to the stranger, who refused or
rather took no heed of these offers of politeness ; he remained
silent, keeping his eyes fixed upon the face of the man
who, but a few hours before, had saved him from a violent
death.

I have had some feelings of this kind myself, in certain
places," said Inglesant, in answer to the Italian's speech, " and
very frequently in all places the sense of something vanishing,
which in another moment I should have seen ; it has seemed
to me that, could I once see this thing, matters would be very
different with me. Whether I ever shall or not I do not
know."

Who can say ? " replied the other. " We live and move
amid a crowd of flitting objects unknown or dimly seen. The
beings and powers of the unseen world throng around us.
We call ourselves lords of our own actions and fate, but weare
in reality the slaves of every atom of matter of which
the world is made and we ourselves created. Among this
phantasm of struggling forms and influences (like a man

forcing his way through a crowd of masques who mock at
him and retard his steps) we fight our way towards the light.
Many of us are born with the seeds within us of that which
makes such a fight hopeless from the first — the seeds of disease,
of ignorance, of adverse circumstance, of stupidity ; for
even a dullard has had once or twice in his life glimpses of
the light. So we go on. I was at Chamberyy once when a man
came before the Duke in the palace garden to ask an alms.
He was a worker in gold, a good artist, not unworthy of
Cellini himself. His sight had failed him, and he could no
longer work for bread to give to his children. He stood
before the Prince and those who stood with him, among
whom were a Cardinal and two or three nobles, with their
pages and grooms, trying with his dim eyes to make out one
from the other, which was noble and which was groom, and
to see whether his suit was rejected or allowed. Behind
him, beyond the garden shade, the dazzling glitter stretched
up to the white Alps. We are all the creatures of a day, and
the puny afflictions of any man's life are not worth a serious
thought ; yet this man seemed to me so true an image of his
kind, helpless and half-blind, yet struggling to work out some
good for himself, that I felt a strange emotion of pity. They
gave him alms — some more, some less. I was a fool, yet even
now I think the man was no bad emblem of the life of each
of us. We do not understand this enough. Will the time ever
come when these things will be better known?"

As the Italian spoke the stranger took his eyes off
Inglesant and fixed them on the speaker with a startled expression,
as though the tone of his discourse was unexpected
to him. He scarcely waited for the other to finish before he
broke in upon the conversation, speaking slowly and with
intense earnestness, as though above all things desirous of
being understood. He spoke a strange and uncouth Italian,
full of rough northern idioms, yet the earnestness and dignity

of his manner ensured him an audience, especially with two
such men as those who stood before him.

Standing in a new world," he said, " and speaking as I
speak, to men of another language, and of thoughts and habits
distinct from mine, I see beneath the tinsel of earthly rank
and splendour, and a luxury of life and of beauty, the ver)^
meaning of which is unknown to me, something of a common
feeling, which assures me that the voice I utter will not be
entirely strange, coming as it does from the common Father.
I see around me a land given over to idolatry and sensual
crime, as if the old Pagans were returned again to earth ;
and here around me I see the symbols of the Pagan worship
and of the Pagan sin, and I hear no other talk than that
which would have befitted the Pagan revels and the Pagan
darkness which overhung the world to come. Standing on the
brink of a violent death, and able to utter few words that can
be understood, I call, in these short moments which are given
me, and in these few words which I have at command — I call
upon all who will listen to me, that they leave those things
which are behind, with all the filthy recollections of ages
steeped in sin, and that they press forward towards the light,
the light of God in Jesus Christ."

He stopped, probably for want of words to clothe his
thoughts, and Inglesant replied, —

You may be assured from the events of last night,
signore, that you are in no danger of violent death in this
house, and that every means will be taken to protect you,
until you have been found guilty of some crime. You must,
however, know that no country can allow its customs and its
religion to be outraged by strangers and aliens, and you cannot
be surprised if such conduct is resented both by the
governors of the country' and by the ignorant populace, though
these act from different motives. As to what you have said
respecting the ornaments and symbols of this house, and of

the converse in which you have found us engaged, it would
seem that to a wise man these things might serve as an
allegory, or at least as an image and representation of human
Hfe, and be, therefore, not without their uses."

I desire no representation nor image of a past world of
iniquity," said the stranger, " I would I could say of a dead
life, but the whole world lieth in wickedness until this day.
This is why I travel through all lands, crying to all men that
they repent and escape the most righteous judgment of God,
if haply there be yet time. These are those latter days in
which our Saviour and Redeemer Jesus Christ, the Son of
God, predicted that iniquity 'should be increased;' wherein,
instead of serving God, all serve their own humours and
affections, being rocked to sleep with the false and deceitful
lullaby of effeminate pleasures and delights of the flesh, and
know not that an horrible mischief and overthrow is awaiting
them, that the pit of Hell yawns beneath them, and that for
them is reserved the inevitable rigour of the eternal fire. Is
it a time for chambering and wantonness, for soft raiment
and dainty living, for reading of old play-books such as the
one I see on the table, for building houses of cedar, painted
with vermilion, and decked with all the loose and fantastic
devices which a disordered and debauched intellect could
itself conceive, or could borrow from Pagan tombs and haunts
of devils, full of uncleanness and dead sins ? "

You speak too harshly of these things," said Inglesant.
"I see nothing in them but the instinct of humanity, differing
in its outward aspect in different ages, but alike in its meaning
and audible voice. This house is in itself a representation of
the world of fancy and reality combined, of the material life
of the animal mingled with those half-seen and fitful glimpses
of the unknown life upon the verge of which we stand. This
little fellow which I hold in my hand, speaks to me, in an
indistinct and yet forcible voice, of that common sympathy —

magical and hidden though it may be — by which the whole
creation is Unfed together, and in which, as is taught in many
an allegory and quaint device upon these walls, the Creator of
us all has a kindly feeling for the basest and most inanimate.
My imagination follows humanity through all the paths by
which it has reached the present moment, and the more
memorials I can gather of its devious footsteps the more
enlarged my view becomes of what its trials, its struggles, and
its virtues were. All things that ever delighted it were in
themselves the good blessings of God — the painter's and the
player's art — action, apparel, agility, music. Without these life
would be a desert ; and as it seems to me, these things
softened manners so as to allow Religion to be heard, who
otherwise would not have been listened to in a savage world,
and among a brutal people destitute of civility. As I trace
these things backward for centuries, I live far beyond my
natural term, and my mind is delighted with the pleasures ot
nations who were dust ages before I was born."

I am not concerned to dispute the vain pleasures of the
children of this world," exclaimed the stranger with more
warmth than he had hitherto shown. " Do you suppose that I
myself am without the lusts and desires of life ? Have I no
eyes like other men, that I cannot take a carnal pleasure in
that which is cunningly formed by the enemy to please the
eye ? Am not I warmed like other men ? And is not soft
clothing and dainty fare pleasing to me as to them ? But I call
on all men to rise above these things, which are transitory and
visionary as a dream, and which you yourself have spoken of as
magical and hidden, of which only fitful glimpses are obtained.
You are pleasing yourself with fond and idle imaginations, the
product of delicate living and unrestrained fancies ; but in this
the net of the devil is about your feet, and before you are
aware you will find yourself ensnared for ever. These things
are slowly but surely poisoning your spiritual life. I call upon

you to leave these delusions, and come out into the clear
atmosphere of God's truth ; to tread the life of painful self-denial,
leaving that of the powerful and great of this world, and
following a despised Saviour, who knew none of these things,
and spent His time not in kings' houses gorgeously tricked out,
but knew not where to lay His head. You speak to me of
pleasures of the mind, of music, of the painter's art ; do you
think that last night, when beaten, crushed, and almost breathless,
in the midst of a blood-thirsty and howling crowd, I was
dimly conscious of help, and looking up I saw you in the
glare of the lanterns, in your courtier's dress of lace and silver,
calm, beneficent, powerful for good, you did not seem to my
weak human nature, and my low needs and instincts, beautiful
as an angel of light ? Truly you did ; yet I tell you, speaking
by a nature and in a voice that is more unerring than mine,
that, to the divine vision, of us two at that moment you were
the one to be pitied, — you were the outcast, the tortured of
demons, the bound hand and foot, whose portion is in this
life, who, if this fleeting hour is left unheeded, will be tormented
in the life to come."

The Italian turned away his head to conceal a smile, and
even to Inglesant, who was much better able to understand
the man's meaning, this result of his interference to save his
life appeared somewhat ludicrous. The Italian, however, probably
thinking that Inglesant would be glad to be relieved
from his strange visitor, seemed desirous of terminating the
interview.

"His Grace expects me," he said to Inglesant, "at the
Casa di Morte this morning, and it is near the time for him to
be there. I will therefore take my leave."

Ah ! the Casa di Morte ; yes, he will expect me there
also," said Inglesant, with some slight appearance of reluctance.
I will follow you anon."

He moved from the indolent attitude he had kept till this

moment before the sideboard, and exchanged with the ItaHan
those formal gestures of leave-taking and politeness in which
his nation were precise. When the Italian was gone Inglesant
summoned a servant, and directed him to provide the stranger
with an apartment, and to see that he wanted for nothing. He
then turned to the fanatic, and requested him as a favour not
to attempt to leave the palace until he had returned from the
Duke. The stranger hesitated, but finally consented.

I owe you my life," he said, — " a life I value not at a
straw's weight, but for which my Master may perchance have
some use even yet I am therefore in your debt, and I will
give my word to remain quiet until you return; but this
promise only extends to nightfall ; should you be prevented by
any chance from returning this day, I am free from my parole."

Inglesant bowed.

I would," continued the man, looking upon his companion
with a softened and even compassionate regard, " I would I
could say more. I hear a secret voice, which tells me that
you are even now walking in slippery places, and that your
heart is not at ease."

He stopped, and seemed to seek earnestly for some phrases
or arguments which he might suppose likely to influence a
courtier placed as he imagined Inglesant to be ; but before he
resumed, the latter excused himself on the ground of his
attendance on the Duke, and, promising to see him again on
his return, left the room.

Inglesant found a carriage waiting to convey him to the
Hospital of Death," as the monastic house adjoining the
public Campo Santo was called. The religious performance
had already begun. Passing through several sombre corridors
and across a courtyard, he was ushered into the Duke's presence,
who sat, surrounded by his Court and by the principal
ecclesiastics of the city, in an open balcony or loggia. As
Inglesant entered by a small door in the back of the gallery a

most extraordinary sight met his eyes. Beyond the loggia
was a small yard or burial-ground, and beyond this the Campo
Santo stretching out into the far country. The whole of the
yard immediately before the spectators was thronged by a
multitude of persons, of all ages and ranks, apparently just
risen from the tomb. Many were utterly without clothing,
others were attired as kings, bishops, and even popes. Their
attitudes and conduct corresponded with the characters in
which they appeared, the ecclesiastics collecting in calm and
sedate attitudes, while many of the rest, among whom kings
and great men were not wanting, appeared in an extremity of
anguish and fear. Beyond the sheltering walls which enclosed
the court the dazzling heat brooded over the Campo Santo to
the distant hills, and the funereal trees stood, black and sombre,
against the glare of the yellow sky. At the moment of Inglesant's
entrance it appeared that something had taken place of
the nature of an excommunication, and the ecclesiastics in the
gallery were, according to custom, casting candles and flaming
torches, which the crowd of nude figures below were struggling
and fighting to obtain. A wild yet solemn strain of music,
that came apparently from the open graves, ascended through
the fitful and half-stifled cries.

The first sight that struck upon Inglesant's sense, as he
entered the gallery from the dark corridors, was the lurid yellow
light beyond. The second was the wild confused crowd of
leaping and struggling figures, in a strange and ghastly disarray,
naked or decked as in mockery with the torn and disordered
symbols of rank and wealth, rising as from the tomb,
distracted and terror-stricken as at the last great assize. The
third was the figure of the Duke turning to him, and the eyes
of the priests and clergy fixed upon his face. The words that
the fanatic had uttered had fallen upon a mind prepared to
receive them, and upon a conscience already awakened to
acknowledge their truth. A mysterious conviction laid hold

upon his imagination that the moment had arrived in which he
was bound to declare himself, and by ever)^ tie which the past
had knotted round him to influence the Duke to pursue a
line of conduct from which his conscience and his better judgment
revolted. On the one hand, a half-aroused and uncertain
conscience, on the other, circumstance, habit, interest, inclination,
perplexed his thoughts. The conflict was uneven, the
result hardly doubtful. The eyes of friends and enemies, of
agents of the Holy See, of courtiers and priests, were upon
him ; the inquiring glance of the aged Duke seemed to penetrate
into his soul. He advanced to the ducal chair, the
solemn music that streamed up as from the grave, wavered
and faltered as if consciousness and idea were nearly lost.
Something of the old confusion overpowered his senses, the
figures that surrounded him became shado^^7 and unreal, and
the power of decision seemed no longer his own.

Out of the haze of confused imagery and distracting thought
which surrounded him, he heard with unspeakable amazement
the Duke's words, —

I have waited your coming, Mr. Inglesant, impatiently,
for I have a commission to entrust you with, or rather my
daughter, the Grand Duchess, has written urgently to me from
Florence to request me to send you to her without a moment's
delay. Family matters relating to some in whom she takes
the greatest interest, and who are well known, she says, to
yourself, are the causes which lead to this request."

Inglesant was too bewildered to speak. He had believed
himself quite unkno^^Tl to the Grand Duchess, whom he had
never seen, but as he had passed before her in the ducal
receptions at Florence. Who could these be in whom she
took so great an interest, and who were known to him ?

But the Duke went on, speaking with a certain melancholy
in his tone.

I have wished, Mr. Inglesant," he said, " to mark in someway

the regard I have conceived for you, and the obligation
under which I conceive myself to remain. It may be that, in
the course that events are taking, it will no longer in a few
weeks be in my power to bestow favours upon any man. I
desire, therefore, to do what I have purposed before you leave
the presence. I have caused the necessary deeds to be prepared
which bestow upon you a small fief in the Apennines,
consisting of some farms and of the Villa-Castle of San Georgio,
where I myself in former days have passed many happy hours."
He stopped, and in a moment or two resumed abruptly, without
finishing the sentence.

The revenue of the fief is not large, but its possession
gives the title of Cavaliere to its owner, and its situation and
the character of its neighbourhood make it a desirable and
delightful abode. The letters of naturalization which are
necessary to enable you to hold this property have been made
out, and nothing is wanting but your acceptance of the gift.
I offer it you with no conditions and no request save that, as
far as in you lies, you will be a faithful servant to the Grand
Duchess when I am gone."

The Duke paused for a moment, and then, turning slightly
to his chaplain, he said, " The reverend fathers will tell you
that this affair has not been decided upon without their knowledge,
and that it has their full approval."

These last words convinced Inglesant of the fact that had
occurred. Although the Duke had said nothing on the subject,
he felt certain that the deed of cession had been signed,
and that for some reason or other he himself was considered
by the clerical party to have been instrumental in obtaining
this result, and to be deserving of reward accordingly. He
had never, as we have seen, spoken to the Duke concerning
the succession, and his position at the moment was certainly
a peculiar one. Nothing was expected of him but that he
should express his grateful thanks for the Duke's favour, and

leave the presence. Surely, at that moment, no law of heaven
or earth could require him to break through the observances
of civility and usage, to enter upon a subject upon which he
was not addressed, and to refuse acts of favour offered to him
with every grace and delicacy of manner. Whatever might bethe
case with other men, he certainly was not one to whom
such a course was possible. He expressed his gratitude withall
the grace of manner of which he was capable, he assured
the Duke of his readiness to start immediately for Florence,
and he left the ducal presence before many minutes had passed
away.

He found before long that all his conjectures were correct.
The Duke had signed the deed of cession, and the report
which was sent to Rome by the Papal agents stated that, in the
opinion of the most competent judges, this result was due to
Inglesant's influence. Before his arrival the Duke had leaned
strongly towards the secular and anti Papal interest, and had
even encouraged heretical and Protestant emissaries. "Avoiding
with great skill all positive allusion to the subject," the
report went on to state, " II Cavaliere Inglesant had thrown all
his influence into the Catholic and religious scale, and had by
the loftiness of his sentiment and the attraction of his manner
entirely won over the vacillating nature of the Duke." Too
much satisfaction, the Cardinal of Umbria and the heads of
the Church in that city assured the Papal Court, could not be
expressed at the manner in which the agent of the Society had
fulfilled his mission.

Inglesant's departure from Umbria was so sudden that he
had no opportunity of again seeing the stranger whom he had
left in the palace, and he was afterwards at some trouble in
obtaining any information respecting him. As far as could be
ascertained he waited in the palace, according to his promise,
until the evening, when, finding that Inglesant did not return,
he walked quietly forth, no man hindering him. What his

JOHN INGLESANT ; [chap. vn.

subsequent fate was is involved in some obscurity ; but it would
appear that, having publicly insulted the Host in some cathedral
in the south of Italy, he was arrested by the Holy Office,
and thrown into prison, from which there is reason to believe
he never emerged.

CHAPTER VIII.

NOT very long after Inglesant had left for Umbria, his
friend, Don Agostino di Chili, suddenly came to
Rome. The Pope's health was rapidly failing, and the excitement
concerning his successor was becoming intense. The
choice was generally considered to lie between the Cardinals
Barbarini and di Chili, though Cardinal Sacchetti was spoken
of by some, probably however merely as a substitute, should
both the other parties fail in electing their candidate.

It was the policy of the Chili family to conduct their
matters with great caution ; none of the family, with the exception
of the Cardinal, were openly in Rome ; and when Don
Agostino arrived he resided in one of the deserted villas hidden
among vineyards and the gardens of solitary convents,
which covered the Palatine and the Aventine in the southern
portion of Rome within the walls. He remained within or
with the Cardinal during the day, but at night he ventured
out into the streets, and visited the adherents of his family
and those who were working to secure his uncle's elevation.

One night the fathers of the Oratory gave a concert at
which one of the best voices in Rome was to sing. It happened
that Don Agostino passed the gate as the company
were assembling, and as he did so the street was blocked by
the train of some great personage who arrived in a sedan of
blue velvet embroidered with silver, accompanied by several
gentlemen and servants. Among the former, Agostino recognized
the Cavaliere di Guardino, the brother of Lauretta, of

whose acquaintance with Inglesant at Florence it may be remembered
he was aware, and with him another man whose
appearance seemed to recall some distant reminiscence to his
mind. He could, however, see him but imperfectly in the
flickering torchlight.

Apart from his desire to remain unrecognized in Rome,
Agostino had no desire to associate with the Cavaliere, of
whose character he had a very bad opinion. To his annoyance,
therefore, as the sedan entered the courtyard, the two
persons he had noticed, instead of following their patron, turned
round, and in leaving the doorway met Agostino face to face.
The Cavaliere recognized him immediately, and appeared to
grasp eagerly the opportunity to accost him. He began by
complimenting him on the near prospect of his uncle's elevation
to the Papacy, professing to consider the chances of his
election very good indeed, and added that he presumed business
connected with these matters had brought him to Rome.
To this Agostino replied that, so far as he knew, his uncle
had no expectation of such an honour being at all likely to be
offered him, and that private affairs of his own, of a very delicate
nature, — of a kind indeed which a gentleman of the Cavaliere's
known gallantry could well understand, — had brought
him to Rome, as indeed he might see from the secrecy he
maintained, and by his not being present at any of the entertainments
which were going forward. He then inquired in
his turn why the Cavaliere had not entered the college. The
other made some evasive answer, but it appeared to Agostino
that both the Cavaliere and his companion were not on the
most familiar terms with the nobleman they had accompanied,
although it might suit their purpose to appear in his train.
Guardino indeed changed the subject hastily, and spoke of
Inglesant, praising him highly. He inquired whether the
Cardinal di Chili was acquainted with him, and whether it
was likely that either as an attendant upon him or upon

Cardinal Rinuccini, Inglesant would be admitted into the
conclave.

Don Agostino replied vaguely that Inglesant was then at
Umbria, and that he could offer no opinion as to the probability
of the latter part of his inquiry.

He thought that he could see from the expression on the
other's face that the Cavaliere thought that he was deceiving
him, and that he jumped at once to the conclusion that, as
the attendant of one or other of the Cardinals, Inglesant would
be present at the conclave.

Guardino went on to speak of Inglesant's character, regretting
the craze of mind, as he called it, which his ill health had
produced, and which rendered him, as he said, unfit for business
or for taking his part in the affairs of life. He went on to
speak with unconcealed contempt of Inglesant's religious ideas
and scruples, and of his association with Molinos ; intimating,
however, his opinion that it would not be impossible to overcome
these scruples, could a suitable temptation be found.
These fancies once removed, he continued, Inglesant's value
as a trusted and secret agent would be greatly increased.

He seemed to be talking abstractedly, and as a perfectly
disinterested person, who was discussing an interesting topic
of morals or mental peculiarity.

Agostino could not understand his drift. He answered
him that the Jesuits did not need unscrupulous bravoes. If
they did, they could be found in every street corner by the
score. He added that he imagined that the services which
Inglesant had already performed, and might perform again,
were of a special and delicate character, for which his temperament
and habit of mind, which were chiefly the result of the
Society's training, especially fitted him.

They had by this time reached the Corso, and Agostino
took the opportunity of parting with his companions, excusing
himself on the ground of his pretended assignation.

VOL. II. L

He was no sooner gone than the Cavaliere, according to
the narrative which was afterwards related by Malvolti, began
to explain more clearly than he had hitherto done what his
expectations and intentions were. He was forced to confide
in Malvolti more than he otherwise would have done, to prevent
his ridding himself of Inglesant's presence by violent
means.

When the Italian first saw Inglesant, whom he had never
met in England, in the theatre in Florence, he was startled
and terrified by his close resemblance to his murdered brother;
and his first thought was that his victim had returned to earth,
and, invisible to others, was permitted to avenge himself upon
his murderer by haunting and terrifying his paths. When he
discovered, however, that the Cavaliere not only saw the appearance
which had so alarmed him, but could tell him who Inglesant
was, and to a certain extent what the motives were which
had brought him to Italy, his superstitious fears gave place to
more material apprehensions and expedients. He at once
resolved to assassinate Inglesant on leaving the theatre, in the
first street through which he might pass — a purpose which
he might easily have accomplished during Inglesant's careless
and unguarded wanderings round the house of Lauretta's
father that night. From this intention he was with difficulty
diverted by the reasoning of the Cavaliere, who represented to
him the rashness of such an action, protected as Inglesant was
by the most powerful of Societies, which would not fail to
punish any act which deprived it of a useful agent; the
unnecessary character of the attempt, Inglesant being at present
in complete ignorance that his enemy was near him ; and
above all, the folly of destroying a person who might otherwise
be made the medium of great personal profit and advantage.
He explained to Malvolti Inglesant's connection with the
Chili family, and the position of influence he would occupy
should the Cardinal be elected to the Popedom ; finally, he

went SO far as to hint at the possibility of an alliance between
Malvolti and his sister, should Inglesant remain uninjured.

Malvolti had only arrived in Florence on the previous day,
and the Cavaliere met him accidentally in the theatre ] but
Guardino's plans with relation to Inglesant and his sister
were already so far matured, that he had arranged for the
abrupt departure of his father and Lauretta from Florence.
His object was to keep in his own hands a powerful magnet
of attraction, which would bind, as he supposed, Inglesant to
his interests ; but he was by no means desirous that he should
marry his sister immediately, if at all. The election for the
Papacy was of very uncertain issue, and if the di Chili faction
failed, Inglesant's alliance would be of little value. He had
two strings to his bow. Malvolti, between whom and the
Cavaliere association in vice and even crime had riveted many
a bond of interest and dependence, was closely connected with
the Barbarini faction, as an unscrupulous and useful tool.
Should the Cardinal Barbarini be elected Pope, or should
Cardinal Sacchetti, who was in his interest, be chosen, his
own connection with Malvolti might be of great value to the
Cavaliere, and the greater service the latter could render to
the Barbarini faction in the approaching crisis the better.
The weak point of his position on this side was the character
of Malvolti, and the subordinate position he occupied among
the adherents of the Barbarini. On the other hand, if Cardinal
Chili were the future Pontiff, the prospects of anyone
connected with Inglesant would be most brilliant, as
the latter, from his connection with the Jesuits, and as the
favourite of the Pope's nephew, would at once become one of
the most powerful men in Italy. The weak point on this side
was that his hold on Inglesant was very slight, and that, even
supposing it to be strengthened by marriage with Lauretta,
Inglesant's character and temper were such as would probably
make him useless and impracticable in the attempt to secure

the glittering and often illicit advantages which would be
within his reach. Between this perplexing choice the only
wise course appeared to be to temporize with both parties,
and to attempt, in the meantime, to secure an influence with
either. The fortunes both of the Cavaliere and of Malvolti
were at this moment pretty nearly desperate, and their means
of influencing any one very small ; indeed, having wasted what
had once been considerable wealth and talent, there remained
nothing to the Cavaliere but his sister, and of that last
possession he was prepared to make unscrupulous use. It
would be of small advantage to him to give his sister's hand
to Inglesant unless he could first, by her means, corrupt and
debase his conscience and that lofty standard of conduct which
he appeared, to the Cavaliere at least, unswervingly to follow;
and the Italian devil at his side suggested a means to this
end as wild in conception as the result proved it impotent and
badly planned.

This Italian devil was not Malvolti, though that person
was one of his most successful followers and imitators. When
the inspired writer has described the princes and angels which
rule the different nations of the earth, he does not go on to
enumerate the distinct powers of evil which, in different
countries, pursue their divers pacific courses ; yet it would
seem that those existences are no less real than the others.
That the character of the inhabitants of any country has much
to do in forming a distinct devil for that country no man can
doubt ; or that in consequence the temptations which beset
mankind in certain countries are of a distinct and peculiar
kind. This fact is sometimes of considerable advantage to
the object of the tempter's art, for if, acting upon his knowledge
of the character of any people, this merely local devil
lays snares in the path of a stranger, it is not impossible that
the bait may fail. This was very much what happened to John
Inglesant. Of the sins which were really his temptations the



Cavaliere knew nothing ; but he could conceive of certain acts
which he concluded Inglesant would consider to be sins.
These acts were of a gross and sensual nature ; for the Italian
devil, born of the fleshly lusts of the people, was unable to
form temptations for the higher natures, and of course his
pupils were equally impotent. The result was singular. Acting
upon the design of ruining Inglesant's moral sense, of
debasing the ideal of conduct at which he aimed, and of
shattering and define what the Cavaliere considered the fantastic
purity of his conscience, he formed a scheme which had
the effect of removing Inglesant from a place where he was
under the strongest temptation and in the greatest danger of
violating his conscience, and of placing him in circumstances
of trial which, though dangerous, he was still, from the peculiarity
of his character, much better able to resist,

A marriage connection with Inglesant would at this juncture
be of little avail ; but a wild and illicit passion, which
would involve him in a course of licentious and confused
action, in which the barriers of morality and the scruples of
conscience would be alike annihilated, and the whole previous
nature of the victim of lawless desire altered, would, if any
agent could produce so great a change, transform Inglesant
into the worldly-minded and unscrupulous accomplice that the
Cavaliere wished him to become. How great the fall would
be he could of course in no way estimate ; but he had sufficient
insight to perceive that the shock of it would probably
be sufficient (acting upon a consciousness so refined and delicate
as that of Inglesant) to render recovery, if ever attained,
very difficult and remote.

Upon this wild scheme he acted. He had removed his
sister when he had thought that Inglesant had been sufficiently
ensnared to make his after course certain and precipitate.
Inglesant's character, which was so very imperfectly known to
the Cavaliere, and circumstances, such as his confinement in

the pest-house, had delayed the consummation of the plot.
But the CavaHere conceived that the time had now arrived for
its completion. He brought his sister back to Florence, and
placed her with the Grand Duchess, in some subordinate situation
which his family and his sister's character enabled him to
obtain. Having had some previous knowledge of her, the
Duchess soon became attached to Lauretta, and obtained her
confidence. From her she learnt Inglesant's story and character,
and wished to see him at the Court. While the two
ladies were planning schemes for future pleasure, the CavaHere
suddenly appeared at Florence, and informed his sister that
he had concluded, with the approbation of his father, a marriage
contract between herself and Malvolti.

Terrified by this threatened connection with a man whose
person she loathed and whose character she detested, Lauretta
flew to the Duchess, and entreated her to send at once for
Inglesant, who, they were both aware, was at that moment with
the Duke of Umbria, the Grand Duchess's aged father. With
the result we are acquainted.

CHAPTER IX.

ON his arrival at Florence Inglesant found himself at once
feted and caressed, though the nature of his mission to
Umbria, antagonistic as his supposed influence had been to
the interests of the ducal party, might naturally have procured
for him a far different reception. Trained as he had been in
courts, the caprices of princes' favour did not seem strange
to him, and were taken at their true worth. Unsuspicious,
therefore, of any special danger, relieved from the intolerable
strain which the position at Umbria had exerted upon his conscience,
delighted with the society of his recovered mistress,
and flattered by the attentions of the Duchess and of the whole
Court, he gave himself up freely to the enjoyments of the hour.
Plentifully supped with money from his o\s-n resources, from
the kindness of the aged Duke, and from the subsidies of his
patrons at Rome, he engaged freely in the parties formed for
the performance of masques and interludes, in which the Court
delighted, and became conspicuous for the excellence of his
acting and invention.

But it was not the purpose of the demon that followed on
his footsteps to give him longer repose than might lull his
senses, and weaken his powers of resisting evil. Day after day
devoted to pleasure paved the way for the final catastrophe,
until the night arrived when the plot was fully ripe. Supper
was over, and the Court sat down again to play. Inglesant
remembered afterwards, though at the time it did not attract
his attention, that several gentlemen, all of them friends of

Guardino, paid him particular attention, and insisted on drinking
with him, calling for different kinds of wine, and recommending
them to his notice. The saloons were crowded and
very hot, and when Inglesant left the supper room and came
into the brilliant marble hall lighted with great lustres, where
the Court was at play, he was more excited than was his wont.
The Court was gathered at different tables, — a very large one
in the centre of the hall, and other smaller ones around. The
brilliant dresses, the jewels, the beautiful women, the reflections
in the numberless mirrors, made a dazzling and mystifying
impression on his brain. The play was very high, and at
the table to which Inglesant sat down especially so. He lost
heavily, and this did not tend to calm his nerves ; he doubled
his stake, with all the money he had with him, and lost again.
As he rose from the table a page touched his elbow and handed
him a small note carefully sealed and delicately perfumed. It
was addressed to him by his new title, " II Cavaliere di San
Georgio," and scarcely knowing what he did, he opened it.
It was from Lauretta.

Cavaliere,

Will you come to me in the Duchess's lodgings before
the Court rises from play ? I need your help. L."

Inglesant turned to look for the boy, who, he expected, was
waiting for him. He was not far off, and Inglesant followed
him without a word. They passed through many corridors
and rooms richly furnished until they reached the lodgings of
the Grand Duchess. The night was sultry, and through the
open windows above the gardens the strange odours that are
born of darkness and of night entered the palace. In the dark
arcades the nightingales were singing, preferring gloom and
mystery to the Hght in which all other creatures rejoice ; and
in the stillness the murmur of brooks and the splash of the
fountains oppressed the ear with an unearthly and unaccustomed

sound. Around the casements festoons of harmless
and familiar flowers and leaves assumed wild and repulsive
shapes, as if transformed into malicious demons who made
men their sport. Inglesant thought involuntarily of those
plants that are at enmity with man, which are used for enchantments
and for poisoning, and whose very scent is death ; such
saturnine and fatal flowers seemed more at home in the lovely
Italian night than the innocent plants which witness to lovers'
vows, and upon which divines moraine and preach. The
rooms of the Duchess were full of perfume of the kind that
enervates and lulls the sense. It seemed to Inglesant as
though he were treading the intricate pathways of a dream,
careless as to what befell him, yet with a passionate longing
which urged him forward, heedless of a restraining voice which
he was even then half-conscious that at other times he should
have heard. The part of the palace where he was seemed
deserted, and the page led him through more than one anteroom
without meeting any one, until they reached a curtained
door, which the boy opened, and directed Inglesant to enter.
He did so, and found himself at once in the presence of
Lauretta, who was lying upon a low seat at the open window.
The room was lighted by several small lamps in different positions,
giving an ample, yet at the same time a soft and dreamy
light. Lauretta was carelessly dressed, yet, in the soft light,
and in her negligent attitude, there was something that made
her beauty the more attractive, and her manner to Inglesant
was unrestrained and clinging. Her growing affection, the
urgency of her need, and the circumstances of the hour, caused
her innocently to speak and act in a way the most fitted to
promote her brother's atrocious purposes.

Cavaliere," she said, " I have sent for you because I have
no friend but you. I have sent for you to help me against my
own family — my own brother — my father even, whom I love
whom I loved — more than all the world beside. They are

determined to marry me to a man whom I hate ; to the man
whom you hate ; to that Signor Malvolti, who, though they deny
it, is, I am fully persuaded, the murderer of your brother ; to
that wretch whom Italy even refuses to receive ; who, but for
his useful crimes, would be condemned to a death of torment.
My brother tells me that he will be here tomorrow to see me
and demand my consent. He brings an authorization from
my father, and insists upon the contract being made without
delay. I would die rather than submit to such a fate, but it
is not necessary to die. I must, however, leave the Court and
escape from my brother's wardship. If I can reach some place
of safety, where I can gain time to see my father, I am certain
that I shall be able to move him. It cannot be that he will
condemn me to such a fate, — me ! the pride and pleasure of
his life. He must be deceived and misled by some of these
wicked intrigues and manoeuvres which ruin the happiness and
peace of men."

I am wholly yours," said Inglesant ; " whatever you desire
shall be done. Have you spoken to the Duchess?"

The Duchess advises me to fly," replied Lauretta ; " she
says the Duke will not interfere between a father and his child;
especially now, when all Italy hangs in suspense concerning the
Papacy, and men are careful whom they offend. She advises
me to go to the convent of St. Catherine of Pistoia, where I
lodged not many years ago while my father was in France.
The Abbess is a cousin of my father's ; she is a kind woman,
and I can persuade her to keep me for a short time at least.
I wish to go to-night. Will you take me ? "

She had never looked so lovely in Inglesant's eyes as she
did while she spoke. The pleading look of her dark eyes, and
the excitement of her manner, usually so reserved and calm,
added charms to her person of which he had previously been
unconscious. In that country of formal restraint and suspicion,
of hurried, furtive interviews, a zest was given to accidental

freedom of intercourse such as the more unrestricted Use of
France and England knew Httle of. In spite of a suspicion of
treachery, which in that country was never absent, Inglesant
felt his frame aglow with devotion to this lovely creature, who
thus threw herself unreservedly into his keeping. He threw
himself upon a cushion at Lauretta's feet, and encircled her
with his arms. She spoke of youth and life and pleasure, —
of youth that was passing away so rapidly j of Hfe that had
been to her dreary and dull enough ; of her jealously-guarded
Italian home, of her convent cell, of her weak and helpless
father, of hei tyrannous brother; of pleasure, of which she
had dreamed as a girl, but which seemed to fly before her as
she advanced ; finally of himself, whom, from the first day she
had seen him in her father's room, she had loved, whom
absence had only endeared, her first and only friend.

He spoke of love, of protection, of help and succour for
the rest of life ; of happy days to come at San Georgio, when
all these troubles should have passed away, when at last he
should escape from intrigue and State policy, and they could
make their home as joyous and free from care as that house
of a Cardinal, on a little hilly bank near Veluti, whence you
can see the sea, and which is called Monte Joiosa. He spoke
of an Idyllic dream which could not long have satisfied either
of them, — himself especially, but which pleased them at that
moment, with an innocent and delicate fancy which calmed
and purified their excited thoughts. Then, as the hour passed
by, he rose from her embrace, promising to provide horses,
and when the palace was quiet, to meet her at the end of one
of the long avenues that crossed the park ; for the Court was
not at the Pitt Palace, but at the Loggia Imperial without
the walls of Florence.

The soft night air played upon Inglesant's forehead as heled
his horses to the end of a long avenue, and waited for the
lady to join him. He did not wait long; she came gliding

past the fountains, by the long rows of orange and cypress
hedges, and across the streaks of moonlight among the trees
that closed the gardens and the park. As he lifted her into
the saddle, her glance was partly scared and partly trustful ;
he felt as though he were moving in a delicious dream.

As they rode out of the park she told him that she had
received a message from the Duchess, recommending her to
stop at a pavilion on the borders of the great chase, beyond
the Achaean Palace, half-way to Pistoia, which the Duchess
used sometimes when the Duke was diverting himself in the
chase. She had sent a messenger to prepare the people who
kept the pavilion for their coming. There was something
strange in this message, Lauretta said, which was brought, not
by one of the Duchess's usual pages, but by a boy who had
not been long at the palace, and who scarcely waited to give
his message, so great was his hurry. It seemed of little
moment to Inglesant who brought the message, or whether
any treachery were at work or no ; he was only conscious of
a delicious sense of coming pleasure which made him reckless
of all beside. Along the first few miles of their road they
passed nothing but the long lines of elms, planted between
ridges of corn, upon which the vines were climbing in already
luxuriant wreaths. Presently, however, after they had passed
the Achaean Palace, the country changed, and they came
within the confines of the Duke's chase, thirty miles in compass,
planted with cork trees and ilex, with underwood of
myrtle thickets. Through these shades, lovely indeed by day,
but weird and unhealthy by night, they rode silently, startled
every now and then by strange sounds that issued from the
forest depths. The ground was fenny and uneven, and moist
exhalations rose out of the soil and floated across the path.

The Duchess never sleeps at the pavilion," said Lauretta
at last suddenly; 'rit is dangerous to sleep in the forest."

It will be as well to stop an hour or so, however," said

Inglesant, " else we shall be at Pistoia before they open the
gates."

Presently, in the brilliant moonlight, they saw the pointed
roofs of the pavilion on a little rising-ground, with the forest
trees coming up closely to the walls. The moon was now
high in the heavens, and it was as light as day. The upper
windows of the pavilion were open, and within it lights were
burning. The door was opened to them before they knocked,
and the keeper of the pavilion came to meet them, accompanied
by a boy who took the horses. The man showed no surprise
at their coming, only saying some servants of the Duchess had
been there a few hours previously, and had prepared a repast
in the dining-room, forewarning him that he should expect
visitors. He accompanied them upstairs, for they saw nothing
of the other inmates of the place. The rooms were arranged
with a sort of rustic luxury, and were evidently intended for
repose during the heat of the day. A plentiful and delicate
collation was spread on one of the tables, with abundance of
fruit and wine. The place looked like the magic creation of
an enchanter's wand, raised for purposes of evil from the
unhealthy marsh, and ready to sink again, when that pacific
purpose was fulfilled, into the weird depths from which it
rose.

The old man showed them the other rooms of the apartment
and left them. At the door he turned back and said, —

I should not advise the lady to sleep here ; the miasma
from the forest is very fatal to such as are not used to it."

Inglesant looked at him, but could not perceive that he
intended his word to have any deeper meaning than the obvious
one. He said, —

We shall stay only an hour or two j let the horses be
ready to go on."

The man left them, and they sat down at the table.

The repast was served in Faience ware of a strange delicate

blue, and consisted of most of the delicacies of the season with
a profusion of wine.

This was not ordered by the Duchess," said Lauretta,

We are safe from poison, Mignonne," said Inglesant ; " to
destroy you as well as me would defeat all purposes. Not that
I believe the Cavaliere would wish me dead. He rather hopes
that I may be of use to him. Let us drink to him."

And he filled a glass for Lauretta of the Monte-pulciano,
the " King of Wines," and drank himself.

Lauretta was evidently frightened, yet she followed his
example and drank. The night air was heavy and close, nota
breath of wind stirred the lights, though every window was
thrown open, and the shutters that closed the loggia outside
were drawn back. In the brilliant moonlight every leaf of the
great forest shone with an unnatural distinctness, which, set ina
perfect silence, became terrible to see. The sylvan arcades
seemed like a painted scene-piece upon a Satanic stage, supernaturally
alight to further deeds of sin, and silent and unpeopled,
lest the wrong should be interrupted or checked. To Inglesant's
excited fancy evil beings thronged its shadowy paths,
present to the spiritual sense, though concealed of set purpose
from the feeble human sight. The two found their eyes
drawn with a kind of fascination to this strange sight, and
Inglesant arose and closed the shutters before the nearest
casement.

They felt more at ease when the mysterious forest was
shut out. But Lauretta was silent and troubled, and Inglesant's
efforts to cheer and enliven her were not successful.
The delicious wines to which he resorted to remove his own
uneasiness and to cure his companion's melancholy, failed of
their effect. At last she refused to drink, and rising up suddenly,
she exclaimed, —

Oh, it is terribly hot. I cannot bear it. I wish we had
not come !"

She wandered from the room in which they sat, through
the curtained doorway into the next, which was furnished with
couches, and sank down on one of them. Inglesant followed
her, and, as if the heat felt stifling also to him, went out upon
the open verandah, and looked upon the forest once more.

Excited by the revels of the past few days, heated with wine,
with the night ride, and with the overpowering closeness of the
air, the temptation came upon him with a force which he had
neither power nor desire to resist. He listened, but no sound
met his ear, no breath stirred, no Having being moved, no disturbance
need be dreaded from any side. From the people in
the pavilion he looked for no interference, from the object of
his desires he had probably no need to anticipate any disinclination
but what might easily be soothed away. The universal
custom of the country in which he was now almost naturalized
sanctioned such acts. The hour was admirably chosen, the
place perfectly adapted in every way, as if the result not of
happy chance but deeply concerted plan.

Why then did he hesitate ? Did he still partly hope that
some miracle would happen? or some equally miraculous
change take place in his mind and will to save him from himself?
It is true the place and the temptation were not of his
own seeking, so far he was free from blame ; but he had not
come wholly unharmed out of the fiery trial at Umbria, and,
by a careless walk since he came to Florence, he had prepared
the way for the tempter, and this night even he had disregarded
the warning voice and drifted recklessly onward. We walk of
our own free will, heated and inflamed by wine, down the
flowery path which we have ourselves decorated with garlands,
and we murmur because we reach the fatal goal.

He gazed another moment over the illumined forest, which
seemed transfigured in the moonlight and the stillness into an
unreal landscape of the dead. The poisonous mists crept over
the tops of the cork trees, and flitted across the long vistas in

spectral forms, cowled and shrouded for the grave. Beneath
the gloom indistinct figures seemed to glide, — the personation
of the miasma that made the place so fatal to human Hfe.

He turned to enter the room, but even as he turned a
sudden change came over the scene. The deadly glamour of
the moonlight faded suddenly, a calm pale solemn light settled
over the forest, the distant line of hills shone out distinct and
clear, the evil mystery of the place departed whence it came,
a fresh and cooling breeze sprang up and passed through the
rustling wood, breathing pureness and life. The dayspring
was at hand in the eastern sky.

The rustling breeze was like a whisper from heaven that
reminded him of his better self. It would seem that hell
overdue it ; the very stillness for miles around, the almost concerted
plan, sent flashing through his brain the remembrance
of another house, equally guarded for a like purpose — a house
at Newnham near Oxford, into which years ago he had himself
forced his way to render help in such a case as this. Here
was the same thing happening over again with the actors
changed ; was it possible that such a change had been wrought
in him? The long past life of those days rushed into his
mind ; the sacramental Sundays, the repeated vows, the light
of heaven in the soul, the kneeling forms in Little Gidding
Chapel, the face of Mary Collet, the loveliness that blessed
the earth where she walked, her deathbed, and her dying
words. What so rarely happens happened here. The revulsion
of feeling, the rush of recollection and association, was
too powerful for the flesh. The reason and the affections
rallied together, and, trained into efficiency by past discipline,
regained the mastery by a supreme effort, even at the very
moment of unsatisfied desire. But the struggle was fierce ; he
was torn like the demon-haunted child in the gospel story ;
but, as in that story, the demon was expelled.

He came back into the room. Lauretta lay upon a couch

with rich draper' and cushions, her face buried in her hands.
The cloak and hood in which she had ridden were removed,
and the graceful outline of her figure was rendered more alluring
by the attitude in which she lay. As he entered she raised
her head from her hands, and looked at him with a strange,
apprehensive, expectant gaze. He remained for a moment
silent, his face very pale ; then he said, slowly and uncertainly,
like a man speaking in a dream, —

The fatal miasma is rising from the plain. Lauretta, this

place is safe for neither of us, we had better go on."

*****

The morning was cloudy and chill. They had not ridden
far before a splash of thunder-rain fell, and the trees dripped
dismally. A sense of discomfort and disappointment took
possession of Inglesant, and so far from deriving consolation
from his conquest, he seemed torn by the demon of discontent.
He was half-conscious that his companion was regretting the
evil and luxurious house they had left. The ride to Pistoia
was silent and depressed. As they passed through the streets,
early as it was, they were watched by two figures half concealed
by projecting walls. One of them was the Cavaliere,
the other was tall and dark. Whether it was the devil in the
person of Malvolti, or Malvolti himself, is not of much consequence,
nor would the difference be great. In either case the
issue was the same, — the devil's plot had failed. It is not so
easy to ruin him nth whom the pressure of Christ's hand yet
lingers in the palm.

When Inglesant presented himself again at the Convent
grate, after a few hours' sleepless unrest at an inn, he was
refused admittance ; nor did repeated applications during that
day and the next meet with a more favourable response. He
became the prey of mortification and disgust that, having had
the prize in his hand, he had of his own free will passed it
into the keeping of another. On the evening of the third day,

VOL. II. M

however, he received a note from Lauretta informing him that
her brother had consented to postpone her betrothal to Mal-volt
indefinitely, and that she, on her part, had promised not
to see Inglesant again until the Papal election had been decided.
She entreated her lover not to attempt to disturb this
compromise, as by so doing he would only injure her whom
he had promised to help. She promised to be true, and did
not doubt but that, having obtained the delay she sought, she
should be able to gain her father's consent to their marriage,
especially if the Papal election took the course they hoped it
would.

There was something cold and formal about the wording
of this note, which, however, might be explained by its contents
having been dictated to the writer ; but, unsatisfactory as it was,
Inglesant was compelled to acquiesce in the request it contained.
He was angry and disappointed, and it must be
admitted that he had some cause. His mistress and his
pleasant life at the ducal Court had vanished in the morning
mist and rain, like the delusive pleasures of a dream, and the
regret which a temptation yielded to would leave behind is
not always counterbalanced by a corresponding elation when
the trial is overcome. He departed for Rome, having sent
orders to Florence for his servants and baggage to meet him
on the road, and the same night on which he entered the city
Pope Innocent the Tenth expired.

CHAPTER X.

THE portion of the Vatican Palace set apart for the election
of the Pope, and called the Conclave, consisted
of five halls or large marble rooms, two chapels, and a gallery
seventy feet long. Each of these halls was divided temporarily
into small apartments, running up both sides, with a broad
alley between them, formed of wood, and covered with green
or violet cloth. One of these apartments was assigned to each
Cardinal with his attendants. The entrance to the whole of
these rooms, halls, chapels, and gallery was by a single door
fastened by four locks and as many keys. As soon as the
Cardinals had entered the Conclave this door was made fast,
and the four keys were given to the four different orders of
the city, — one to the Bishop of Rome, one to the Cardinals
themselves, a third to the Roman Nobility, and the fourth to
the Officer, a great noble, who kept the door. A wicket in
the door, of which this Officer also kept the key, permitted
the daily meals and other necessaries to be handed to the Cardinals'
servants, everj^ dish being carefully examined before it
was allowed to pass in. Within the Conclave light and air
were only obtained by sky-lights or windows opening upon
interior courts, precluding communication from without. The
gloom of the interior was so great, that candles were burnt
throughout the Conclave at noon-day.

From the moment the Conclave was closed a silence of
expectation and anxiety fell upon all Rome. The daily life
of the city was hushed. The principal thoroughfares and

fortresses were kept by strong detachments of armed troops,
and the approaches to the mysterious door were jealously
watched. Men spoke everywhere in whispers, and nothing
but vague rumours of the proceedings within were listened to
in the places of public resort, and in the coteries and gatherings
of all ranks and conditions of the people.

In the interior of the Conclave, for those who were confined
within its singular seclusion, the day passed with a wearisome
monotony marked only by intrigue not less wearisome.
Early in the morning a tolled bell called the whole of its inmates
to mass in one of the small Chapels darkened with
stained glass, and lighted dimly by the tapers of the altar, and
by a few wax candles fixed in brass sockets suspended from
the roof The Cardinals sat in stalls down either side of the
Chapel, and at the lower end was a bar, kept by the master of
the ceremonies and his assistants, behind which the attendants
and servants were allowed to stand. Mass being over, a table
was placed in front of the altar, upon which was a chalice and
a silver bell. Upon six stools near the table are seated two
Cardinal-bishops, two Cardinal-priests, and two Cardinal-deacons.
Every Cardinal in his turn, upon the ringing of
the bell, leaves his seat, and having knelt before the altar in
silent prayer for the guidance of heaven in his choice, goes
round to the front of the table and drops a paper, upon which
he has written the name of a Cardinal, into the chalice, and
returns in silence to his stall.

A solemn and awful stillness pervades the scene, broken
only by the tinkling of the silver bell. The Cardinals, one by
one, some of them stalwart and haughty men with a firm step
and imperious glance, others old and decrepit, scarcely able to
totter from their places to the altar, or to rise from their knees
without help, advance to their mysterious choice. To the eye
alone it was in truth a solemn and impressive scene, and by a
heart instructed by the sense of sight only, the awful presence

of God the Paraclete might, in accordance with the popular
belief, be felt to hover above the Sacred Host; but in the
entire assembly to whom alone the sight was given there was
probably not one single heart to which such an idea was
present. The assembly was divided into different parties, each
day by day intriguing and manoeuvring, by every art of policy
and every inducement of worldly interest, to add to the number
of its adherents. " If perchance," says one well qualified to
speak, " there entered into this Conclave any old Cardinal,
worn by conflict with the Church's enemies ' in partibus infi-
demum,' amid constant danger of prison or of death, or perchance
coming from amongst harmless peasants in country
places, and by long absence from the centre of the Church's
poHty, ignorant of the manner in which her Princes trod the
footsteps of the Apostles of old, and by the memory of such
conflict and of such innocence, and because of such ignorance,
was led to entertain dreams of Divine guidance, two or three
days' experience caused such an one to renounce all such
delusion, and to return to his distant battlefield, and so to see
Rome no more."

■\\Tien every Cardinal has deposited his paper, the Cardinal-bishop
takes them out of the chalice one by one, and hands
them to the Cardinal-Deacon, who reads out the name of the
elected, but not of the Cardinal who had placed the paper in
the chalice (which is written on part of the paper so folded
that even the reader does not see it) ; and as he reads the name,
every Cardinal makes a mark upon the scroll of names he has
before him. When all the names have been read, the Cards
from a paper which he has prepared, reads the
name of him who has had the most voices and the number of
the votes. If the number be more than two-thirds of the
whole, the Cardinal who has received the votes is thereby
elected Pope ; but if not, the Cardinal-Priest rings the silver
bell once more, and at the signal the master of the ceremonies,

Monsignor Fabei, advances up the Chapel, followed by a groom
carrying a brazier of lighted coals, into which, in the face of
the whole assembly, the papers are dropped one by one till all
are consumed.

At the beginning of the Conclave the Cardinals were
always divided into two, if not more parties, of such relative
strength as to make the attainment of such a majority by
either of them impossible for many days. It was not until
the persistent intrigues of a fortnight had increased the majority
of any one Cardinal so much as to give a probability of
his being ultimately elected, that the waverers of all sides, not
willing to be known as the opponents of a new Pope, recorded
their voices in his favour, and thus raised the majority to its
necessary proportion. For this very delicate matter occurred
at this period of the election, that, should the requisite majority
of voices be obtained, the master of the ceremonies and
his brazier were no longer called for, but the whole of the
papers were opened to their full extent, and the names of the
voters given to the world, whereby, as one conversant in these
matters observes, " Many mysteries and infidelities are brought
to light." It is evident, therefore, that, as the majority of anyone
Cardinal increased or showed signs of increasing, morning
and evening, as the suffrages were taken, the voting became a
very exciting and delicate matter. No one could be certain
but that at the next voting the majority from the cause mentioned
would suddenly swell to the necessary size, and every
man's name be made clear and plain on whose side he had
been.

Upon entering the Conclave the friends of Cardinal Chili
adopted a quiet policy, and waited for the progress of events
to work for them. The abuses of the late Pontificate, and
the excitement and indignation of popular opinion, had made
it clear to all parties that it was necessary to elect a Pope
whose character and reputation would restore confidence. In

these respects no one seemed more qualified than Cardinal
Chili, who was supposed to possess all the qualifications
necessary)' to ensure the Romans from the apprehension of a
revival of the past disorders, and to inspire the whole Christian
world with the hopes of witnessing a worthy successor of St.
Peter displaying the Christian virtues from the Papal Chair.
The great reputation he had gained at leinster, the determination
he was said to have manifested to reform all abuses, the
authority and influence he derived from his post of Secretary of
State, his attractive and gracious manner, the recommendation
of the late Pope upon his death-bed, — all tended to bring his
name prominently forward. He was supported by the Spanish
Cardinals, chiefly on account of the enmity of the French Court
and of his professed opposition to Cardinal Mazarin.

But, in spite of these advantages, the enmity of the French
Court, and the opposition of the Barbarini family, the relations
and supporters of the late Pope, made it necessary for his
friends to observe extreme caution. The French Cardinals
were ordered to vote for Sachetti, and Cardinal Barbarini for
the present supported him, also, with aU his party, chiefly because
he had not yet made terms with the Spanish Court,
which opposed Sachetti ; but also, as was supposed, because
he himself had aspirations towards the Papal Chair, should he
find the electors favourable to such a scheme.

Upon the entrance into the Conclave, therefore, Cardinal
Sachetti immediately obtained thirty-two or thirty-three votes.
These were not quite so many as the Barbarini expected, and
indeed had a right to count upon, after the professions which
the Cardinals of the party had made. This was owing to the
defection of some members of what was called the Flying
Squadron, composed chiefly of young Cardinals, who were
supposed to be devoted to the Barbarini, but of whom several
were secretly favourable to Cardinal Chili.

The Spanish faction, which was numerous enough to have

secured the election of any Cardinal had it been united, but
the members of which were agreed upon nothing but their
determined opposition to Sachetti, contented itself with voting
negatively at every scrutiny, making use of the form " accede
nemine." This course was pursued for two entire months,
during which time the scrutinies were taken regularly morning
and evening, always with a slightly varying but indecisive
result.

It would be difficult to realize the wearisomeness which
reigned in the Conclave during so protracted a period. The
crowding together of so large a number of persons in a few
apartments, the closeness of the air, and the unbroken
monotony of the hours that passed so slowly, made the confinement
almost intolerable. One Cardinal was taken ill, and
was obliged to be removed. The great gallery was generally
used by the Cardinals themselves, for exercise and conversation,
while their attendants were compelled to content themselves
with their masters' apartments, or the corridors and
passages. Those which opened on the interior courts, and
thereby afforded some fresh air, were especially resorted to.
Communication from without, though in theory absolutely
prevented, was really frequent, all the chief among the
Cardinals receiving advices from foreign Courts, and conveying
intelligence thither themselves.

At intervals the whole of the inmates were assembled to
listen to Father Quaechi, preacher to the Conclave, a Jesuit,
and secretly in favour of Cardinal Chili, as was the Society in
general. The sermon was so contrived as to influence its
hearers considerably by its evident application to the manners
and conduct of the Cardinal.

The famous De Retzz, then an exile from France and a
supporter of Chili, by whom he always sat in the Chapel, was
the principal intriguer in his favour. He was in communication
with the nominal supporters of Barbarini, who sent him

intelligence by jMonsignor Fabei when to vote for Sachetti, on
occasions when it would be of no real service to him, and
when to refrain. On one of these latter occasions Fabei
entrusted his message to Inglesant, with whom he was
intimate, and it afterwards appeared that Sachetti, on that
scrutiny, wanted but very few votes to have secured his
election. This circumstance made a deep impression on De
Retzz, and he never recognized Inglesant afterwards without
alluding to it.

The day after this scrutiny Cardinal Barbarini appears to
have thought that the time was come for his friends to make
a demonstration in his behalf, and to the astonishment of the
Conclave thirty-one votes appeared in his favour in the next
scrutiny. This caused the friends of Cardinal Chili to pay
more attention to his conduct, and to the discourses of his
Conclavists and other partizans, who neglected no opportunity
of exalting his good qualities.

The exhaustion of the Conclave became extreme. Cardinal
Caraffa, who, next to Sachetti and Chili, stood the
greatest chance of election, became ill and died. Twelve
other Cardinals were balloted for, one after another, without
result Cardinal San Clemente was then brought forward,
and, but for the hostility of the Jesuits, might have been
elected ; but the Spanish Cardinals who supported him did
not dare openly to offend the Society, and the election failed.

The Barbarini began to despair of electing their candidate,
and having received favourable advices from the Court
of Spain, were willing, either with or without the concurrence
of their leader, to negotiate with the friends of Cardinal
Chili Sachetti, finding his own chances hopeless, was not
averse to be treated with. There remained only the Court of

France.

******

The MSS. are here defective.

Be this as it may, Cardinal Sachetti's letter had the
desired effect upon Mazarin, who immediately sent the
necessary letters to the French Cardinals, withdrawing the
veto upon Chili. Nothing remained now but to gain the
concurrence of Cardinal Barbarini. For a long time he
refused to accede, but, the members of his party who had
from the first secretly supported Chili having now openly
declared in his favour, Barbarini at last consented to hold a
conference. It took place immediately after the morning
scrutiny, and lasted but a short time. But it sat long enough
to arrange that the next morning Cardinal Chili should be
elected Pope.

This determination was so suddenly arrived at, and was
concealed so carefully, that nothing certainly was known during
the rest of the day, outside the number of those who had taken
part in the conference. There were vague rumours, and many
discontents, but the time was so short that many who would
have declared in favour of Sachetti, had longer time been
given them, were not able to recover from their surprise.

Inglesant was of course informed by Cardinal Chili of
what had occurred immediately after the conference, and
about mid-day he received a message from De Retzz warning
him to be upon his guard. During the afternoon, however,
some further intelligence of the feeling within the Conclave
came to the knowledge of that astute intriguer, and he sent
Monsignor Fabei to Inglesant about five o'clock.

This man was a favourable specimen of the Italian servant
of an Ecclesiastical Court. Belonging to a family which had
been trained for generations in the service of the Curia, he
was a man to whom the difficulties which perplexed others,
and the anomalies which appeared to some men to exist
between Christian polity as it might be conceived to be and
Christian polity as it was practised in Rome, did not exist ;
a man to whom the Divine, so far as it was manifested to

him at all, took the form, without doubt or scruple, of that
gorgeous though unwieldy, and, as it seemed to some, slightly
questionable, economy of which he was the faithful sergeant.
He was honest, yet he appeared — such was the peculiarity of
his training and circumstances — to have solved the, on good
authority, insoluble problem of serving two masters at the
same time ; for two opposing Cardinals, or two factions of
Cardinals, aUke commanded his reverence and service at
the same moment. Much of this service was no doubt
unthinking and unconscious, else the memoirs of such a man,
composed by himself without reserve, would be perhaps as
interesting a book as could be written.

Something is going on within the Conclave, Cavaliere,"
he said, " of which I am not entirely cognizant. Of course I
am aware of the communications which have been made
from outside during this most protracted Conclave. The
Princes of the Church must have every opportunity given
them of arriving at a just conclusion in this most important
matter, and I have never been backward in affording every
assistance to their Eminences; but what we have to deal
with to-night is of a very different kind. You have nothing
to dread from the chiefs of the opposite party ; they have
accepted the situation, and will loyally carry out their
engagements. But they have altered their policy without
consulting or remembering their supporters, and among
these, especially the inferior ones outside the Conclave, the
disappointment is severe. They have not time, nor are they
in a position to make terms with the successful party, and
their expectations of advancement are annihilated. They
are, many of them, absolutely unscrupulous, and would
hazard everything to gain time. They have some means of
communication between the outside world of Rome and their
partizans within the Conclave, which they have not used till
now, and with which, therefore, I am unacquainted. They are
employing it now. What the exact effort will be I do not

know, but should your Padrone, Cardinal Chili, fall ill
before tomorrow's scrutiny, it would delay his election, and
delay is all they want. There are sufficient malcontents to
prevent his election if they had only time ; two or three
days would give them all they want. I should advise you
not to sleep to-night, but to watch with a wakefulness which
starts at every sound."

The apartment assigned to Cardinal Chili was subdivided
into three smaller ones, the largest of which was appropriated
to the bedchamber of the Cardinal, the two others to his
attendants. These apartments communicated with each
other, and only one opened upon the centre corridor running
down the Hall. The Cardinal retired early to his own
chamber, and most of the other Cardinals did the same. A
profound silence reigned in the Conclave ; if any of the
attendants still stirred they were velvet-shod, and the floors
and walls, lined with velvet, prevented the least sound from
being heard.

Inglesant remained alone in the outermost of the three
apartments, and determined to keep his faculties on the
alert For some reason, however, either the fatigue of the
long confinement, or the deathlike stillness of the night, a
profound drowsiness overpowered him, and he continually
sank into a doze. He tried to read, but the page floated
before his eyes, and it was only by continually rising and
pacing the small chamber that he kept himself from sinking
into a deep sleep.

A profound peace and repose seemed to reign in a place
where so many scheming and excited brains, versed in every
art of policy, were really at work.

Inglesant had sat down again, and had fallen once more
into a slight doze, when suddenly, from no apparent cause,
his drowsiness left him, and he became intensely and almost
painfully awake. The silence around him was the same as

before, but a violent agitation and excitement disturbed his
mind, and an overpowering apprehension of some approaching
existence, inimical to himself, aroused his faculties to an
acute perception, and braced his nerves to a supreme effort.
In another moment, this apprehension, at first merely mental,
became perceptible to the sense, and he could hear a sound.
It was, as it were, the echo of a low faint creeping movement,
the very ghost of a sound. Whence it came Inglesant could
not determine, but it was from without the apartment in
which he sat. No longer able to remain passive, he rose,
drew back the velvet curtain that screened the entrance from
the corridor, opened the door silently, and went out.

The corridor was lighted here and there along its great
length by oil lamps suspended before every third door of the
Cardinals' rooms ; but the dark and massive hangings, the
loftiness of the hall overhead, and the dimness of the lamps
themselves, caused the light to be misty and uncertain, as in a
confused and troubled dream. One of these lamps was suspended
immediately above the door at which Inglesant
had appeared, and he stood in its full Hght, being himself
much more distinctly seen than he was himself able to see
anything. He was richly dressed in dark velvet, after the
French fashion, and in the uncertain light his resemblance to
his murdered brother was, in this dress, very great. He held
a slight and jewelled dagger in his hand.

As he paused under the suspended lamp the sound he had
before heard developed itself into low stealthy footsteps approaching
down the corridor, apparently on the opposite side,
and the next moment a figure, more like a phantom thrown
on the opposite wall than a substantial being, glided into
sight. It was shrouded in dark and flowing drapery, and
kept so close to the heavy hangings that it seemed almost
the waving of their folds stirred by some unknown breeze.
Though it passed down the opposite side, it kept its attention

turned in Inglesant's direction, and almost at the same
moment at which he appeared through the opening door it
saw him and instantly stopped. It lost its stealthy motion
and assumed an attitude of intense and speechless terror, such
as Inglesant had never seen depicted in a human being, and
by this attitude revealed itself more completely to his gaze.
The hood which shaded its face fell partly back, and displayed
features pale as death, and lustrous eyes dilated with horror,
and Inglesant could see that it held some nameless weapon
in its hand. As it stood, arrested in its purpose, breathless
and uncertain, it seemed to Inglesant a phantom murderer,
or rather the phantom of murder itself, as though nothing
short of the murderous principle sufficed any longer to dog
his steps.

This strange figure confronted Inglesant for some seconds,
during which neither stirred, each with his eyes riveted upon
the other, each with his weapon in his hand. Then the
phantom murmured in an articulate and broken voice, that
faltered upon the air as though tremulous with horror, " It is
himself! He has taken the dagger from his bleeding wound."

Then, as it had come, it glided backwards along the heavy
drapery, becoming more and more lost in its folds, till, at
first apparently but the shadow of a shade, it faded more and
more into the hanging darkness, and vanished out of sight.

The next morning, at the scrutiny after early mass, Fabius
Chili, Cardinal and Secretary of State, was, by more than two-thirds
of the whole Conclave, elected Pope.

CHAPTER XI.

THERE is, perhaps, no comparison so apposite, though it
be a homely one, to the condition of affairs in Italy at
this time — upon the election of a new Pope — as that of a
change of trumps at a game of cards. All persons and matters
remain the same as they were before, yet their values and relationships
are all changed; the aspect of the entire scene is
altered; those who before were in little esteem are exalted,
and those who were in great power and estimation are abased.
All the persons with whom Inglesant had been connected were
more or less affected by it, except Cardinal Rinuccini, to whom
it made little difference. To the Cavaliere and to Malvolti it
was ruin. The former was so deeply involved in debt, in
private feuds, and entanglements with the authorities, his
character was so utterly lost with all parties, and his means of
usefulness to any so small, that it is probable that even the
elevation to power of the Barbarini faction would not have
been of much use to him. But, whatever might have been his
prospects had the election resulted otherwise, his only chance
now of safety from prison and even death was in Inglesant's
connection with his sister, and in the protection he might hope
to experience upon that account ; his only hope depended
upon the force of Inglesant's affection. The fear of private
assassination kept him almost confined to his chamber. Mal-volt's
circumstances were still more hopeless ; notorious for
every species of vice and crime, and hateful even to the very
bravoes and dregs of the Italian populace, he had now lost all

hope of alliance or even assistance from his friend the Cavaliere,
who discarded him the moment that he was of no further use.
Maddened by this treatment and by despair, no way seemed
open to him except that of desperate revenge. Towards Inglesant
his hatred was peculiarly intense, being mixed with a certain
kind of superstitious dread. He regarded him almost
as the shade of his murdered brother, returned from the grave
to dog his steps. It was his presence which had thwarted his
last desperate attempt within the Conclave, his last hope of
earning protection and rewards. He expected nothing but
punishment and severe retribution at Inglesant's hands. Surrounded
as he was by perils and enemies on every side, this
peril and this dreaded enemy stood most prominently in his
path ; a blow struck here would be not only a measure of self-defence,
but a sweet gratification of revenge, and a relief from
an appalling supernatural terror. This terrible semblance of
his murdered victim once out of his path, he might hope that
the vision of a bloody hearthstone in England might not be
so constantly before his eyes.

To Inglesant himself the bright prospects which seemed
opening before him gave Httle satisfaction. He was exhausted
in body by his long detention within the Conclave, and the
tone of his spirit was impaired by the intrigue and hj^DOcrisy
of which he had been a witness and a partaker. It is impossible
to kneel morning after morning before the Sacrament, ina
spirit of worldliness and chicane, without being soiled and
polluted in the secret places of the soul. The circumstances
of his visit to Umbria and to Florence, howbeit in both he had
been preserved almost by a miracle from actual sin, had left
an evil mark upon his conscience. He felt little of the sweet
calm and peace he had enjoyed for a season in the company
of Molinos, during his first visit to Rome. Something of his
old misery returned upon him, and he felt himself again the
sport of the fiend, who was working out his destruction by

some terrible crime, of which he was the agent, and the ItaHan
murderer the cause.

This man is at large in Rome," said Don Agostino to him
one day ; " I should advise you to have him assassinated. It
is time the earth was rid of such a villain, and the Roman law
is useless in such a case. All protection is withdrawn from
him, and every man, high and low, within the city will rejoice
at his death."

Inglesant shook his head.

I do not value my life, God knows, at a straw's worth,"
he said. " Because he murdered my brother, foully and treacherously,
he and I shall too surely meet some day ; but the time
is not yet come. Surely if the devil can afford to wait, much
more can I."

He spoke more to himself than to the other, and there is
reason to suppose that Don Agostino made arrangements to
have Malvolti assassinated on his own responsibility ; but the
Italian avoided his bravoes for a time.

Some short time after the Pope's election, in the height of
the Carnival a masked ball was given in the Palace Doria, at
which Don Agostino had arranged a set composed entirely of
his own friends. It was composed in imitation of the old
comedies of the Atellanae, upon which the Punchinello and
Harlequinade of all nations has been formed, and which, being
domestic dramas performed in masques by the Roman youth
with an old-fashioned elegance and simplicity, were peculiarly
fitted for performance at a modern masquerade. A primitive
and rude form of pantomime, founded on caricature and burlesque,
with a few characters boldly drawn, has none of the
charm of the later comedy, which is a picture of real life with

^ It is generally stated by historians that the election of Cardinal
Chili took place on April 7th, 1655, and as Easter that year fell on April
1 5th, there appears some discrepancy in this part of the narrative. The
reader must decide between these contending authorities.

VOL. II. N

its variety of character and incident, and possesses that excellent
art of showing men as they are, while representing them
as they seem to be. But, though it fell short of this higher
perfection, the broad farce and few characters of the older form
of comedy are not wanting in much lively and yet serious
painting of human life, which is all the more serious and
pathetic from its broad and unconscious farce. The jester, the
knave, the old man, the girl, the lover, — these types that are
eternal and yet never old, — with the endless complication in
which, both on the stage and real life, they are perpetually
involved, are susceptible of infinite application and interest to
the imagination. As the rehearsal progressed Inglesant was
struck and interested with these ideas, and as the night came
on there seemed to him to be in the world nothing but play
within play, scene within scene. Between the most incidental
acts of an excited and boisterous crowd and the most solemn
realities of life and death it seemed to him impossible to distinguish
otherwise than in degree ; all appeared part of that
strange interlude which, between the Dramas of Eternity, is
performed continually upon the stage of life.

The set was a large one, consisting of the ordinary pantomime
types, supplemented by duplicates, peasants, priests,
sbirri (always a favourite subject of satire and practical jokes),
country girls, and others. Don Agostino, whose wit was ready
and brilliant, took the part of clown or jester, and Inglesant
that of the stage lover, a role requiring no great effort to sustain.
The part of Columbine was sustained by a young girl, a
mistress of Don Agostino, of considerable beauty and wit, and
as yet unspoiled by the wicked life of Rome. She was dressed
as a Contadina, or peasant girl, in holiday costume. Harlequin
was played by a young Count, a boy of weak intellect, involved
in every species of dissipation, and consigned to ruin by designing
foes, of whom some were of his own family.

As the ball progressed the party attracted great notice by

the clever interludes and acts they performed between the
dances. In these the usual tricks and practical jokes were
introduced sparingly, relieved by a higher style of wit, and by
allusions to the topics of the day and to the foibles of the
society of Rome. The parts were all well sustained, and Don
Agostino exerted himself successfully to give brilliancy and
life to the whole party. The young Harlequin-Count, who
had at first seemed only to excel in lofty capers and somersaults,
was the first who showed tokens of fatigue. He became
gradually listless and careless, so that he changed his part, and
became the butt of the rest, instead of their tormentor.

A dance in sets had just begun, and Inglesant could not
help being struck with his disconsolate manner, which showed
itself plainly, even through his masque and disguise. It seemed
that others noticed it as well, for as Inglesant met the Contadina
in one of the combinations of the figure, she said in the
pause of the dance, —

Do you see the Count, Cavaliere ? He is on the brink of
ruin, body and soul. His cousin, and one or two more who
are in the set, are engaged with him in some desperate complication,
and are working upon his feeble mind and his
terror. Cannot you help him at all?"

Wien the dance ceased Inglesant went over to the Count,
intending to speak to him, but his cousin and others of the
set were talking earnestly to him, and Inglesant stepped back.
He saw that the longer his treacherous friends spoke to him
the more broken do^\^l and crushed in spirit did the poor
Harlequin Count become; and it was evident to Inglesant
that here a play was being enacted within the play, and that,
as often is the case, one of the deep tragedies of life was
appearing in the fantastic dress of farce. As he stood dreamily
watching what occurred, Don Agostino called him off to commence
another comic act, and when at the first pause he
turned to look for the Count, he could no longer see him. His

cousin and the others were present, however, and soon after
the set was again formed for another dance.

The stifling air of the crowded rooms, and the fatigue of the
part he had to perform, wrought upon Inglesant's brain ; the
confused figures of the dance dazzled his sight, and the music
sounded strange and grotesque. As the partners crossed each
other, and he came again to the Contadina in his turn, she
grasped his hand in hers, and said, hurriedly, —

*' Do you see who is standing in the Count's place?"

Inglesant looked, and certainly, in the place of the dance
which should have been occupied by the Count, was a tall
figure in the dress of a white friar, over which was carelessly
thrown a black domino, which allowed the dark fiery eyes of
the wearer to be seen.

The Count has gone," whispered the girl, trembling allover
as she spoke, " no one knows whither ; no one knows
who this man is who has come in his place. He is gone to
drown himself in the river ; this is the devil who supports his
part."

In spite of the girl's visible agitation and his own excitement,
Inglesant laughed, and, taking her words as a jest, turned
again to look at the strange masque, intending to make some
ludicrous comment to reassure his friend. To his astonishment
the words died upon his lips, and an icy chill seemed to
strike through his blood and cause his heart to beat violently.
A sensation of dread overpowered him, the dance-music sounded
wild and despairing in his ears, and the ever-varying throng of
figures, waving with a thousand colours, swam before his eyes.
In the appearance of the stranger, which was simply that of a
tall man, there was nothing to account for this ; and except that
he kept his piercing eyes steadily fixed upon Inglesant, there
was nothing in his manner to attract attention. Inglesant went
through the rest of the dance mechanically, and suddenly, as
it seemed to him, the music stopped.

The dance being over, most of Don Agostino's party, tired
with their exertions, withdrew to the buffet of an adjoining
apartment for refreshment. Inglesant had taken off his
masque, and standing by the buffet, a little apart from the
rest, was fanning himself with it, and cooling his parched
throat with iced wine, when he was aware that the strange
figure had followed him. It was standing before him with a
glass in its hand, which it seemed to fill from a bottle of
peculiar shape, which Inglesant recognized as one only used to
contain a rare Italian wine.

Cavaliere," the strange masque said in a soft and polite
voice, " this wine will do you more good than that which you
are drinking ; it cools and rests the brain. Will you drink
with me?"

As he spoke he offered Inglesant the glass he held, and
filled another, and at the same instant, the Contadina came
up to Inglesant and hung upon his arm.

Inglesant, who was unmasked, stood with the glass in his
hand, waiting for the other to remove his domino before he
bowed and drank ; but the stranger did not do so.

After a moment's pause, amid the breathless silence of the
whole group, who were looking on, the stranger said, speaking
with a courteous speech and gesture, which if acted were perfectly
well assumed, —

Pardon me that I do not remove my masque ; it is my
misfortune that I am not able to do so."

Impressed by the other's manner, it struck Inglesant in a
moment that this must be some great noble, perhaps a Prince
of the Church, for whom it would be injudicious to appear
unmasked, and bowing courteously, he raised the glass to his
lips.

As he did so the black eyes of the disguised friar were
fixed steadily upon him, and the Contadina said in his ear, in
an eager, frightened whisper, —

'' Do not drink."

The tremor of her voice, and of her figure on his arm,
brought back in a moment the terror and distrust which the
bearing and manner of the other had dispelled, and raising
the cup, he let his lip rest for a moment in the liquor, but did
not drink. Then replacing the glass upon the buffet, he said
coolly, —

It is a good wine, but my English habit has spoiled my
taste. I do not like the Italian Volcanic wines."

I regret it," said the other, turning away ; " they are a
quietus for the fever of life."

The party breathed more freely as he left the room, and
the Contadina, taking the glass which Inglesant had put down,
emptied its contents upon the floor.

They followed the domino into the ball-room, where they
saw him speaking to the Count's cousin, and to two or three
others of the group, who had remained there or sought refreshment
elsewhere.

As the last dance began, in the early daybreak which made
the lamps burn faintly, and cast a pale and melancholy light
over the gay dresses and the moving figures, over the gilding
and marble, and the dim lovely paintings on the walls, Inglesant
was conscious of a strange and death-like feeling that
benumbed his frame. He was bitterly cold, and his sight
became dim and uncertain. The music seemed to grow wilder
and more fantastic, and the crowded dancers, grotesque and
goblin-like to any eyes, became unreal as a dream to his.

Suddenly, as before, the music ceased, and not knowing
what he did, Inglesant became separated from his friends, and
was borne by the throng to the doors and down the staircase
into the courtyard and the street

The Piazza and the Corso beyond were crowded with carriages,
and with servants carrying dim torches, and the morning
air was rent with confused noise.

Nearly unconscious, Inglesant allowed himself to be carried
onward by the crowd of persons leaving the palace on foot — a
motley throng in every variety of costume, and he was soon
borne out of the square into the Corso and down the street.

Suddenly he heard a voice behind, clear and distinct to
his ears, at least, amid the confused noise, —

There he is — now strike ! "

Turning round quickly, he saw the masque within two
yards of him, with something in the folds of his gown which
shone in the light. In another moment he would have been
close to him, when they were swept apart by a sudden movement
of the crowd, and Don Agostino's carriage, surrounded
by servants, passed close by the spot to which Inglesant had
drifted. He was recognized, and Agostino welcomed him
eagerly, saying,—

I have been looking for you everywhere."

They proceeded along the Corso, Inglesant still like a
man in a dream, and turned down towards the bridge of St.
Angelo. At the corner of a street leading to the river,
another pause occurred. The carriage of a great French
noble and Prince of the Church — which had followed the
Corso farther on — was passing when they turned into the
street, and according to the formal etiquette of the day, even
at that hour and in the crowded street, Don Agostino's coachman
stopped his horses before the carriage of his master's
superior, and the servants opened the door that one of the
gentlemen at least might alight. At the same moment, there
seemed to be some confusion in the crowd at the top of the
short street leading to the river; and Inglesant, still hardly
knowing what he did, alighted, with the double purpose of
seeing what was the matter, and of saluting his patron. As he
did so, one of the servants said to him, —

They are bringing up a dead body, sir."

It was true. A body had just been drawn out of the

river, and, placed on nets and benches of a boat, was being
carried on the shoulders of fishermen up the street. As it
passed, Inglesant could see the face, which hung drooping towards
him over the edge of the nets. It was the face of the
Harlequin-Count.

It had scarcely passed, when Inglesant heard — as a man
hears over and over again repeated in a ghastly dream — the
same voice that spoke before, saying, —

There he is again. If you let him get back to the
coach you will lose him. Go round by the horses' heads."

The restlessness of the impatient horses had made a little
space clear of the crowd, and the same had happened in front
of the horses of the Cardinal-duke, so that the street between
them was comparatively clear. Strangely frightened and distressed,
Inglesant struggled back to Agostino's carriage, and
had just reached the door when the masque, passing round the
horses' heads, sprang upon him, and struck a violent blow with
the glancing steel. The state of his victim's brain saved him.
The moment he reached the door he reeled against it, and the
weapon glanced off his person, the hilt striking him a violent
blow on the chest. He fell backwards into the coach, and
Agostino caught a second blow in his sleeve. The startled
servants threw themselves upon the murderer, but he slipped
through their hands and escaped.

-sir * * *

Two days after the ball, when the morning of Ash Wednesday
broke with the lovely Italian dawn, a strange and sudden
transformation had passed over Rome. Instead of a people
wild with pleasure, laughing, screaming, joking like children,
feasting, dancing, running about, from mere lightness of heart ;
in the place of fairs, theatres, and booths in the open streets,
instead of the public gardens and walks crowded with parti-coloured
masquers, full of sportive pranks, and decked outwith
every vagary and grotesque freak of costume, you saw a

city quiet and silent as the grave, yet full of human forms ;
you heard nothing but the tolling of bells and the faint echo
of solemn chants. The houses and churches were hung with
black; the gay tapestries and silks, the theatres, the play-actors,
and the gay dresses, had all vanished, and in their place
the streets were full of cowled and silent penitents. They
walked with downcast and pallid faces ; if you spoke to them
they did not answer, but gazed upon you with wondering eyes.
Men and women alike wore the black gown and hood of
penance, and from the proudest noble to the poorest peasant,
thronged into the Churches and received alike the emblem of
their common fate — the ashes and dust from whence they
came, and to which they would return.

Before the masked ball, exhausted in health by the long
confinement in the Conclave, and tormented in mind by disappointed
desire and by accusing conscience, Inglesant had
been sinking into almost as great misery as that which he had
endured before he came to Rome. The perils and terror
that had entered unbidden among the guests during that night
of revelry had worked a marvellous change upon him, and he
awoke from a species of trance, which had lasted two days,
with his spirits cleared and strengthened. He was, in fact,
like a man whom a violent fever has just left, languid in body,
but with a mind at rest and in peace, with the wild dreams
and visions of delirium gone. The earth seems, at least to
him, calm and peaceful, full of voices of prayer and strains of
penitential song. He looks out upon life languidly, it is
true, but with a friendly, pleased countenance, as upon a well-known
landscape recalling happy days. So it was with Inglesant,
that the wild riot of the Carnival being over, the peace
of Lent began within his soul. The blow that had been
struck at his life restored him to life, and took away the superstitious
dread that was gradually consuming his reason. He
had met his brother's murderer, not alone in some solitary

place and picked time, planned before with diabolic purpose
by the enemy of mankind, but in a crowd, and as it seemed
by chance. He had himself been passive, and urged by no
demoniac prompting to some terrible act of vengeance ; still
more, his enemy had failed, miraculously, as it seemed to him.
Surely, then, his fears had been in vain ; he was not delivered
over to Satan, nay, probably the Lord Himself still regarded
him with compassion, still watched over and defended his life.
Some work was doubtless reserved for him to do ; for him,
living always on the verge of delirium, whom a Httle extra
pressure upon the brain-nerve might at any moment estrange
altogether from reason, and deprive of intellect and of intercourse
with men. For such as he, nevertheless, under such
protection, what might not yet be possible ? The dews of the
Divine Grace cool the fevered brain more surely than any
cordial, and soften and water the parched and thirsty heart.
The pleasant Italian March day was soft and balmy as the
loveliest day of June in England. The scent of jasmin and
Daphne flowers filled the air; soft showers fell at intervals
over the garden slopes of that part of Rome ; the breath of
Zephyr swept sweetness into the weary sense. Et him join
the hooded throng of penitents ; let him, dust and ashes,
snatched it may be " e fatima " from the very flames, yet
still by the grace of God in his right mind, take his ashes with
a grateful heart.

For the appearance, amid the chaos of his life, of a guiding
Divine Hand, delightful as it is to any man, must be unspeakably
so to him who, to the difficulties, sufficiently great, which
ordinarily beset a man in his path through life, adds this overwhelming
one — the imminent chance at any moment of losing
consciousness altogether, with the power of thought and choice
of seeing objects rightly, and of self-control and self-command.
How eagerly one to whom Hfe is complicated in such sort as
this must welcome a Divine guidance may easily be seen —

one who otherwise is wandering among a phantasmagoria of
objects, among which he must, so far as his wavering consciousness
allows him, and for the moment that consciousness
may remain his own, shape his course so as to avoid ruin.

In the fresh morning air, full of delicious warmth and sweetness,
and with this angelic messenger leading his soul, Inglesant
went out. He had no sufficient motive to take him to any
particular Church ; but chance or some nobler power directed
that he should turn his steps to the right in passing into the
Via di S. Giovanni, and following the crowd of penitents,
should arrive at the portico of the Church of the Lateran.

The space in front of the magnificent facade was crowded
with draped forms, and the wail of the rare organ music reached
the outer perfumed air. The marble pavement of the interior,
precious beyond calculation, was thronged with the dark crowd,
and the costly marble of the walls and tombs was streaked and
veiled by the wreaths of incense which lingered in the building.
The low chanting and the monotonous accompaniment of the
organs filled the Church, and high over the altar, brilliant with
a thousand lights, flashed the countless gems of the wonderful
tabernacle, and the Poena of plate of inestimable cost On
either side the gilded brass of the four columns of the Emperor
Titus, brought from Jerusalem itself, reflected back the altar
lights ; and beset with precious stones where the body of the
Lord once had hung, was evident to all beholders the very
wood of the Holy Cross.

As Inglesant entered, the ashes had been sprinkled three
times with holy water, and the clouds of incense gradually rose
over the kneeling crowd, as the people began to receive the
ashes upon their foreheads, thronging up in silence and order.
At the same time the choir began to sing the Antiphons,
accompanied by the heavenly music of the matchless organs,
and penetrating by their distinct articulation the remotest
corners of the Church.

Immutemur habit," they began, " let us change our garments
; in ashes and sackcloth let us fast and lament before the
Lord. Because," and the pealing anthem rose in ecstatic
triumph to the emblazoned roof, " plenteous in mercy to forgive
our sins is this God of ours."

Ah ! yes," thought Inglesant, " let us change our garments
; these dark robes that seem ashes and sackcloth, may
they not be the chosen garment of the marriage supper of the
King? Clothed and in one's right mind, by the heavenly
mercy we already walk the celestial pavement, and hear the
pealing anthems of the angelic choir."

"Emendemus in mehus,"the anthem went on, "let us amend
for the better in that in which we have ignorantly sinned — ne
subito preoccupation die mortis, quadratus spatium poenitentiae,
et inventive non possumus."

The mighty voice, as of God Himself, seemed to single out
and speak to Inglesant alone, " Lest suddenly overtaken by
the day of death." Ah ! who so well as he knew what that
meant, who so lately as he had stood face to face with the
destroyer ?

He covered his face with his hands.

As the chanting of the Antiphon continued ; he reached
the steps of the high altar, and in his turn knelt to receive the
ashes upon his brow.

In a pause of the anthem the chanting ceased, and the
organs played a slow movement in the interval. Nothing was
heard but the monotonous undertone of the priests.

As Inglesant knelt upon the marble an overpowering sense
of helplessness filled his soul, so worthless and fragile he
seemed to himself before the eternal existence, that the idea
of punishment and penitence was lost in the sense of utter
nothingness.

"Ah! Lord God," he thought, "shattered in mind and
brain I throw myself on Thee ; without Thee I am lost in the

vortex of the Universe ; my intellect is lost except it steadies
itself upon the idea of Thee. Without Thee it has no existence.
How canst Thou be angry with that which is not?"

He bowed his head in utter prostration of spirit to receive
the ashes.

Memento, homo," the priest began — ah ! surely it must
be easy to remember that, " quia pelvis es "

Inglesant heard no more. A sudden thrill of earth, like
the familiar scent of flowers to a dying man, passed through
him, and he lifted up his eyes. Opposite to him across the
corner of the altar steps knelt Lauretta, her lustrous eyes full
of tears fixed upon him with an inexpressible tenderness and
interest His eyes met hers for an instant, then he dropped
his head again before the priest ; but the thought and presence
of heaven was gone from him, and nothing but the roses and
loves of earth remained.

He rose from his knees. The throng of penitents surrounded
him, and he suffered himself to be swept onward,
down the long nave, till he reached the door through which
the crowd was pouring out. There, however, he stopped.

CHAPTER XII.

THE old Duke of Umbria was dying. He lay clothed,
as he had once said to Inglesant, in the "Angelica
Testis," the sacred wafer in his mouth. Below in the Palace
Chapel, in the great Duomo, in Rome itself, masses were being
said day by day, and the ineffable Host raised to heaven, in
intercessory prayer for this man's soul. If any deserved an
unruffled passage over the dark river, he did. He had sought
long and earnestly to find a more excellent way, and had shrunk
from no effort nor painful mortification if he might at last
walk in it when found. He had resigned himself and all that
he possessed in implicit obedience to the doctrine and the See
of Rome. He had crowned a blameless and beneficent life
by acts of unparalleled devotion and piety ; nevertheless, an
unruffled passage he did not have. The future was dark and
full of dread, and he suffered all the terrors of the grave with
a troubled mind. Lying thus in dull misery of body, and in
mental apprehension and unrest, he bethought himself of Inglesant.
Having surrendered himself, soul and body, into the
hands of those who stood about his bed, he knew that it was
useless to let his mind wander after any of those unauthorized
teachers from whom in past days he had sought instruction ;
but in Inglesant he had, for the first time, met a man who,
walking to all appearance in the straightest paths of the Catholic
Church, seemed to possess a freedom of spirit greater than the
Sectaries themselves could boast. Even when suffering the
rebukes of an accusing conscience, and the bewilderment of a

disordered brain, there was in Inglesant an unfettered possession
of the things of this life, and even of the life to come,
which had astonished the old man, who, unaccused by his o^\^l
conscience, was yet so confined and hampered in this world,
and in such continual dread of that other which was shortly to
be revealed to him.

He expressed to his director a wish that Inglesant might
be sent for. It was impossible to deny him this request, even
had it been thought desirable. Inglesant was a trusted confidant
of the dominant Society of Rome, a favourite of the new
Pope, and had, besides, been influential, as was believed, in
obtaining that crowning triumph — the cession of the Duchy to
the Papal See. A messenger was therefore despatched to Rome
requesting his immediate presence. The summons found him
with Lauretta and her father, engaged in preparations for his
speedy marriage.

This connection was regarded with great favour by Don
Agostino and most of his friends ; but was looked upon, as
far as they condescended to notice it at all, with suspicion by
the heads of the Jesuit Society.

They were beginning to dread the influence of Molinos,
and Inglesant had already incurred some suspicion by his intimacy
with the Spaniard. The Pope was supposed to be not
altogether opposed to the new doctrine, and the Jesuits were
unwilling to lose an obedient servant, who might be useful to
them. There was, however, no sufficient reason in this why he
should be forbidden to visit the old Duke, who was certainly
dying, and therefore beyond the reach of dangerous influence ;
and Inglesant, remembering the interest he had felt in the
Duke, and the favours which he had lavished upon him,
hastened to set out.

When he arrived in Umbria he found the Duke had rallied
a little, and he received him with the warmest expressions of
delight He was never content save when he was in the room,

and his very presence seemed to restore strength and Use to
the exhausted old man. Those who watched about his bed
in the interests of Rome, if they had felt any apprehensions of
the result of Inglesant's visit, were speedily reassured, for the
Duke did not seem desirous of conversing upon religious
matters with him, and, indeed, rather avoided them. He
seemed to cling to Inglesant as to the only remaining link to
that world which he was so soon to leave, and to take a strange
pleasure in furnishing him with those appliances of earthly
enjoyment which had until now long ceased to be of interest to
himself. Among other gifts he insisted on his accepting a
suit of superb armour which had been made expressly for his
idolized son. In this suit, in which he caused Inglesant to
be arrayed, he declared that he well represented the patron
saint of his nation, St. George of England, and pleased himself
with the reflection that the fief with which he had endowed
Inglesant bore the name of the same saint.

"You are il Cavaliere di San Georgio," he said to his
favourite, as he stood by his couch, sheathed in the superb but
useless and fantastic armour of the seventeenth century, with
cuirass, greaves, and cuisses of polished and jewelled metal,
worn over the ordinary dress, and combined with the lace and
velvet which ornamented the whole. It is true that the steel
plates were covered with silver and gold chasing of arabesques
not of the most Christian type, and the perfect sword-blade
was engraved with hieroglyphics not of the most saintly kind;
nevertheless Inglesant, as he stood, did certainly resemble
somewhat closely a splendid renaissance St. George.

"You are il Cavaliere di San Georgio," said the Duke,
and you must wear that armour when you go to meet your
bride. I have arranged a train worthy of so illustrious a bridegroom."


Inglesant's marriage had taken a great hold in the imagination
of the dying, man, and his mind, to the surprise of those

who had known him longest, seemed to dwell entirely upon
nuptials and festivals. The strain and terror which his spirit
had suffered for so long had probably done their work, and,
like as on a harpsichord with a snapped string, the set purpose
and composure was lost, and nothing but fragments of fantasias
could be played. That magic influence of the wonderful ducal
palace which Inglesant had been conscious of at his first visit,
and of which the Duke had seemed hitherto altogether regardless,
at the last moments of his life appeared to assert its power
and force ; and what to others seemed mere dotage appeared to
Inglesant like a wintry gleam of mysterious light that might bethe
earnest of a happier time, — a return from the dark regions
of superstitious fear to the simple delights of common human
life. The sway of this strange house was as powerful over
Inglesant himself as it had been before ; but he now stood
upon higher ground than he had done formerly. The events
which had occurred in the meantime had not been entirely
without effect. His triumph over the temptation of the flesh
in the forest pavilion had secured to him a higher place in the
spiritual walk, and the escape from the assassin's dagger had
sobered his spirit and indescribably touched his heart. The
Kings' Courts," of which this house was but a type, — the
Italian world in which he had lived so long, — had, therefore,
now less power than ever to crush Inglesant's religious instinct ;
but it gave it a certain colour, a sort of renaissance Christianity,
which bore a likeness to the character of the art-world in which
it had grown up, — a Christianity of florid ornament and of somewhat
fantastic issues.

As the Duke gradually became weaker, and seemed everyday
to be on the point of death, he became the more anxious
that Inglesant's marriage should be completed, and at last
insisted upon his delaying his return to Rome no longer.
Inglesant, who expected almost hour by hour the Duke's
decease, would have been content to wait; but the dying man

VOL. II. o

would take no denial. He pleased himself with giving orders
for Inglesant's train, and ordered his favourite page, an Austrian
boy, to accompany him, and to return immediately when the
marriage was celebrated, that he might receive the fullest
description of the particulars of the event.

It was long before sunrise that Inglesant set out, accompanied
by his train, hoping to cross the mountains before the
heat began. His company consisted of several men-at-arms,
with their grooms and horse boys, and the Austrian page.
They ascended the mountains in the earlier part of the night,
and towards dawn they reached a flat plain. The night had
been too dark to allow them to see the steep and narrow
defiles, full of oaks and beech ; and as they passed over the
dreary plain in the white mist, their figures seemed vast and
indistinct in the dim Hght; but now, as the streaks of the dawn
grew brighter in the east behind them, they could see the fir
trees clothing the distant slopes, and here and there one of
the higher summits still covered with white snow. The scene
was cold and dead and dreary as the grave. A heavy mist
hung over the mountain plain, and an icy lake lay black and
cold beneath the morning sky. As they reached the crest of
the hill the mist rose, stirred by a little breeze at sunrise, and
the gorges of the descent lay clear before them. The sun arose
behind them, gilding the mountain tops, and tracing streaks
and shades of colour on the rising mist sparkling with glittering
dew-drops ; while dark and solemn beneath them lay the
pine-clothed ravines and sloping valleys, with here and there
a rocky peak ; and farther down still the woods and hills gave
place at last to the plain of the Tiber, at present dark and
indistinguishable in the night.

As the sun arose behind them one by one the pine ravines
became lighted, and the snowy summits, soft and pink with
radiant light, stood out against the sky, which became every
instant of a deeper blue. The sunlight, stealing down the

defiles and calling forth into distinct shape and vision tree and
rock and flashing stream, spread itself over the oak woods in
the valleys, and shone at last upon the plain, embossed and
radiant with wood and green meadow, and marble towers and
glittering water — the waters of the Tiber running onwards
towards Rome. Mysterious forms and waves of light, the
creatures of the morning and of the mist, floated before the
sight, and from the dark fir trees murmurs and muttering of
ethereal life fell upon the ear. Sudden and passionate flushes
of colour tinted the pine woods and were gone, and beneath
the branches and across the paths fairy lights played for a
moment and passed away.

The party halted more than once, but it was necessary to
make the long descent before the heat began, and they commenced
carefully to pick their way down the stony mountain
road, which wound down the ravines in wild unequal paths.
The track now precipitous, now almost level, took them round
corners and masses of rock sometimes hanging above their
heads, revealing continually new reaches of valley, and new
defiles clothed with fir and oak. Mountain flowers and trailing
ivy and creeping plants hung in festoons on every side,
lizards ran across the path, birds fluttered above them or
darted into the dark recesses where the mountain brooks were
heard ; everything sang the morning psalm of life, with which,
from field and mountain solitudes, the free children of nature
salute the day.

The Austrian boy felt the beauty of the scene, and broke
out into singing.

When the northern gods," he said to Inglesant, " rode
on their chevisance they went down into the deep valleys
singing magic songs. Let us into this dark valley, singing
magic songs, also go down; who knows what strange and
hidden deity, since the old pagan times lost and forgotten, we
may find among the dark fir dingles and the laurel shades ?"

And he began to sing some love ditty.

Inglesant did not hear him. The beauty of the scene,
ethereal and unreal in its loveliness, following upon the long
dark mountain ride, his sleepless nights and strange familiarity
with approaching death by the couch of the old Duke, confused
his senses, and a presentiment of impending fate filled
his mind. The recollection of his brother rose again in his
remembrance, distinct and present as in Hfe ; and more than
once he fancied that he heard his voice, as the cry of some
mountain beast or sound of moaning trees came up the pass.
No other foreshadowing than this very imperfect one warned
him of the approaching crisis of his life.

The sun was fully up, and the light already brilliant and
intense, when they approached a projecting point where the
slope of wood ended in a tower of rock jutting upon the road.
The path by which they approached it was narrow and ragged,
but beyond the rock the ground spread itself out, and the path
was carried inward towards the right, having the sloping hillside
on the one hand, covered with scattered oaks, while, on
the other, a slip of ground separated it from the ravine. At
the turning of the road, where the opening valley lay before
them as they reached the corner, face to face with Inglesant
as he checked his horse, was the Italian, the inquisitive stranger
of the theatre at Florence, the intruder into the Conclave, the
masque of the Carnival ball, the assassin of the Corso — that
Malvolti who had treacherously murdered his brother and
sought his own life. Alone and weary, his clothes worn and
threadbare, he came toiling up the pass. Inglesant reined in
his horse suddenly, a strange and fierce light in his eyes and
face. The Italian started back like some wild creature of the
forest brought suddenly to bay, a terrified cry broke from him,
and he looked wildly round as if intending flight. The nature
of the ground caught him as in a trap ; on the one hand the
sloping hillside steep and open, on the other tangled rugged

ground, slightly rising between the road and the precipice, cutoff
all hope of sudden flight. He looked wildly round for a
moment, then, when the horsemen came round the rocky wall
and halted behind their leader, his eyes came back to Inglesant's
face, and he marked the smile upon his lips and in his
eyes, and saw his hand steal downwards to the hunting piece
he carried at the saddle ; then with a terrible cry, he threw
himself on his knees before the horse's head, and begged for
pity, — pity and life.

Inglesant took his hand from his weapon, and turning
slightly to the page and to the others behind him, he said, —

This man, messer, is a murderer and a villain, steeped
in every crime ; a cruel secret midnight cut-throat and assassin ;
a lurker in secret corners to murder the innocent. He took
my brother, a noble gentleman whom I was proud to follow,
treacherously at an advantage, and slew him. I see him now
before me lying in his blood. He tried to take my life, — I,
who scarcely even knew him, — in the streets of Rome. Now
he begs for mercy, what say you, gentleman? what is his
due?"

Shoot the dog through the head. Hang him on the
nearest tree. Carry him into Rome and torture him to death."

The Italian still continued on his knees, his hands clasped
before him, his face working with terror and agony that could
not be disguised.

Mercy, monsignore," he cried. " Mercy. I cannot, I
dare not, I am not fit to die. For the blessed Host, monsignore,
have mercy — for the love of Jesu — for the sake of
Jesu."

As he said these last words Inglesant's attitude altered,
and the cruel light faded out of his eyes. His hand ceased
to finger the carabine at his saddle, and he sat still upon his
horse, looking down upon the abject wretch before him, while
a man might count fifty. The Italian saw, or thought he saw,

that his judge was inclining to mercy, and he renewed his
appeals for pity.

For the love of the crucifix, monsignore ; for the blessed
Virgin's sake."

But Inglesant did not seem to hear him. He turned to
the horsemen behind him, and said, —

Take him up, one of you, on the crupper. Search him
first for arms. Another keep his eye on him, and if he moves
or attempts to escape, shoot him dead. You had better come
quietly;" he continued, "it is your only chance for life."

Two of the men-at-arms dismounted and searched the
prisoner, but found no arms upon him. He seemed indeed
to be in the greatest distress from hunger and want, and his
clothes were ragged and thin. He was mounted behind one
of the soldiers and closely watched, but he made no attempt
to escape, and indeed appeared to have no strength or energy
for such an effort.

They went on down the pass for about an Italian league.
The country became more thickly wooded, and here and thereon
the hillsides patches of corn appeared, and once or twice
in a sheltered spot a few vines. At length, on the broad
shoulder of the hill round which the path wound, they saw
before them a few cottages, and above them, on the hillside,
in a position that commanded the distant pass till it opened
on the plain, was a Chapel, the bell of which had just ceased
ringing for mass.

Inglesant turned his horse's head up the narrow stony
path, and when the gate was reached, he dismounted and
entered the Chapel, followed by his train. The Capella had
apparently been built of the remains of some temple or old
Roman house, for many of the stones of the front were carved
in bold relief. It was a small narrow building, and possessed
no furniture save the altar and a rude pulpit built of stones;
but behind the altar, painted on the plaster of the wall, was

the rood or crucifix, the size of life. Who the artist had been
cannot now be told ; it might have been the pupil of some
great master, who had caught something of the master's skill,
or, perhaps, in the old time, some artist had come up the pass
from Borgo san Sepolcro, and had painted it for the love of
his art and of the Blessed Virgin ; but, whoever had done it,
it was well done, and it gave a sanctity to the little Chapel,
and possessed an influence of which the villagers were not
unconscious, and of which they were even proud.

The mass had commenced some short time as the train
entered, and such few women and peasants as were present
turned in surprise.

Inglesant knelt upon the steps before the altar, and the
men-at-arms upon the floor of the Chapel, the two who guarded
the prisoner keeping close behind their leader.

The priest, who was an old and simple-looking countryman,
continued his office without stopping; but when he had
received the sacred elements himself, he turned, and, influenced
probably by his appearance and by his position at the altar,
he offered Inglesant the Sacrament. He took it, and the
priest, turning again to the altar, finished the mass.

Then Inglesant rose, and when the priest turned again he
was standing before the altar with his craven sword held lengthwise
across his hands.

My Father," he said, " I am the Cavaliere di San Georgio,
and as I came across the mountains this morning on my way
to Rome, I met my mortal foe, the murderer of my brother, a
wretch whose life is forfeit by every law, either of earth or
heaven, a guilty monster steeped in every crime. Him, as
soon as I had met him, — sent by this lonely and untrodden
way as it seems to me by the Lord's hand, — I thought to
crush at once, as I would a venomous beast, though he is
worse than any beast. But, my Father, he has appealed from
me to the adorable Name of Jesus, and I cannot touch him.

JOHN INGLES A NT; [chap. xii.

But he will not escape. I give him over to the Lord. I
give up my sword into the Lord's hands, that He may work
my vengeance upon him as it seems to Him good. Henceforth
he is safe from earthly retribution, but the Divine Powers
are just. Take this sword, reverend Father, and let it lie upon
the altar beneath the Christ Himself; and I will make an
offering for daily masses for my brother's souL"

The priest took the sword, and kneeling before the altar,
placed it thereon like a man acting in a dream.

He was one of those child-like peasant-priests to whom
the great world was unknown, and to whom his mountain
solitudes were peopled as much by the saints and angels of
his breviary as by the peasants who shared with him the solitudes
and the legends that gave to these mountain fastnesses
a mysterious awe. To such a man as this it seemed nothing
strange that the blessed St. George himself, in jewelled armour,
should stand before the altar in the mystic morning light, his
shining sword in his hand.

He turned again to Inglesant, who had knelt down once
more.

It is well done, monsignore," he said, " as all that thou
doest doubtless is most well. The sword shall remain here as
thou mayest, and the Lord doubtless will work His blessed
will. But I entreat, monsignore, thy intercession for me, a
poor sinful man ; and when thou returned to thy place, and
seest again the Lord Jesus, that thou wilt remind Him of His
unworthy priest. Amen."

Inglesant scarcely heard what he said, and certainly did
not understand it. His sense was confused by what had
happened, and by the sudden overmastering impulse upon
which he had acted. He moved as in a dream; nothing
seemed to come strange to him, nothing startled him, and he
took slight heed of what passed. He placed his embroidered
purse, heavy with gold, in the priest's hand, and in his excitement

totally forgot to name his brother, for whose repose
masses were to be said.

He signed to his men to release the prisoner, and, his
trumpets sounding to horse before the Chapel gate, he mounted
and rode on down the pass.

But his visit was not forgotten, and long afterwards, perhaps
even to the present day, popular tradition took the story
up, and related that once, when the priest of the mountain
Chapel was a very holy man, the blessed St. George himself,
in shining armour, came across the mountains one morning
very early, and himself partook of the Sacrament and all his
train; and appealed triumphantly to the magic sword — set
with gold and precious stones — that lay upon the altar from
that morning, by virtue of which no harm can befall the village,
no storm strike it, and, above all, no pillage of armed
men or any violence can occur.

The Austrian boy returned to Umbria with his story of
the marriage ; but the old Duke never heard it. No sooner
had Inglesant left him than his depression and despair returned;
he loathed the sight of the day, and of the costly
palace in which he lived ; the gay arts and the devised fancies
by which men have sought to lure happiness became intolerable
to him ; and, ill as he was, he caused himself to be
removed to the Castel Durante, amid the lonely mountain
ravines, to abide his end. As Inglesant bowed beneath the
care-cloth — the fine linen cloth laid over the newly-married in
the Church, — kneeling till mass was ended, with his heart full
of love and brightness and peace, the last of the house of
Revere — " worn out," says the chronicler, with a burst of unusual
candour, " by priestly torments " — breathed his last,
and went to another world, where, it may be hoped, sacrifice
and devotion are better rewarded than they are here, and
superstitious terrors are unknown.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE Castello di San Georgio, or, as it might more properly
have been called, the " Casa " or Villa di San
Georgio, was built upon the summit of a small conical hill,
amid the sloping bases of the Apennines, at a part of their
long range where the summits were low and green. In that
delightful region, the cultivation and richness of the plain is
united to the wildness and beauty of the hills. The heat is
tempered in the shady valleys and under the thick woods. A
delicious moisture and soft haze hangs about these dewy,
grassy places, which the sun has power to warm and gladden,
but not to parch. Flowers of every hue cover the ground
beneath the oaks and elms. Nightingales sing in the thickets
of wild rose and clematis, and the groves of laurel and of the
long-leaved olives are crowded with small creatures in the full
enjoyment of life and warmth. Little brooks and rippling
streams, half hidden by the tangled thickets, and turned from
their courses by the mossy rocks, flow down from the hill
ravines, as joyful and clear as in that old time when each was
the care of some protecting nymph or rural god. In the
waters of the placid lake are reflected the shadows of the hills
and the tremulous shimmer of waving woods.

In this favoured region, the Villa di San Georgio stood
upon its leafy hill-top, set in the background of the mountains.
The steep slope was terraced here and there in patches of
ground planted with fruit-trees, and at the foot, towards the
south, a large lake slept beneath the blue sky, its shores lined

with brushwood, interspersed here and there with grassy
slopes, where the orchis and hyacinth and narcissus sprang up
from the green rich turf.

Through this pastoral land, at all seasons of the year,
wandering shepherds with their flocks, peasants with their
cattle and dogs, ladies and cavaliers from the neighbouring
villas, woodmen, vine-dressers, fishermen from the lake,
traversed the leafy stage, and diversified the scene ; but when
the grape was fully ripe, and the long year was crowned at last
with the fatness of the vintage, a joyous age of rural wealth
and jollity seemed for a time to fill the mellow, golden-tinted
land. Then, indeed, wandering amid the woods and rocks
interspersed with vineyards and patches of yellow wheat, as
you met the loaded wain, or came upon the wine-press, trodden
by laughing girls and boys, you seemed to understand the
stories of the rural wanderings of the gods, for you met with
many a scene to which it might well be fancied that they
might still be allured, as to that garden at the foot of Mount
Sermon where the roses grew. The gracious gods of plenty
still filled the luscious vats; rustling Zephyr still whispered
love among the flowers, still came laden with the ripening
odours of the fruit. The little cherub Loves peeped out from
behind oak stems and ruined plinth and sculptured frieze,
half hidden among roots and leaves.

The Castello was a modern building, although there were
ruins in one of the courtyards of a very antique date. It consisted
of three or four lofty blocks of buildings, at right angles
to each other, covered with low, red-tiled roofs. The principal
windows were in the upper stories, and gave light to large and
handsome rooms, from which on all sides the most enchanting
landscapes satisfied the eye.

The weeks that succeeded Inglesant's marriage grew into
months, and the months into years, in this delightful scene.
The old Count spent some months in peaceful satisfaction

with his daughter and her husband, delighted with the company
of his one grandchild, a little boy. In the spacious
dining-saloon, with its cool polished floor, it was a pretty sight
to see the old, courteous nobleman tempting the child with
the ripest fruit. The shaded light fell upon the plate and
yellow ware on the table, and upon the old cabinets of Italian
marqueterie against the walls ; whilst by the carved mantelpiece
sat the pleased parents, of whom it is recorded that in
Rome they passed for the handsomest pair in Italy. In this
way, the days of some three sunny summers passed away,
while the winters were spent in the Papal city.

But this Arcadian life was not lasting. The old Count
was not long content if absent from city life, and the time at
the Castello hung somewhat heavily upon the spirits of both
Inglesant and his wife. They were neither of them fitted by
previous habits and education for a retired country life ; but
the circumstance which outwardly appeared to weigh upon
Lauretta's mind was uncertainty concerning her brother's fate.
From the time of the marriage the Cavaliere had disappeared,
and from that day no word of tidings had been received
respecting him. It was known that his circumstances were
desperate, and the danger he lay under from secret enemies
imminent. The account which her husband had given her of
the condition in which he had seen Malvolti dwelt in her
imagination, and she brooded over the idea of her brother ina
similar state of destitution and misery. It seemed probable
that, had he been assassinated, tidings of the event would have
reached his family \ and if alive, it was strange that he had
made no application for assistance to those who were so well
able and so willing to render it. This suspense and mystery
were more insupportable than certainty of evil would have
been. -

The characters of Inglesant and his wife were of such a
nature as most effectively to produce and aggravate this

sleepless uneasiness. Upon Lauretta's lenient and gracious,
if somewhat pleasure-loving disposition, the impression of the
unkindness she had experienced from her brother faded without
leaving a trace, and she thought only of some pleasant,
long-past incidents, when she had been a pretty, engaging
child j whilst the life of romance and excitement, combined
with a certain spiritual Quixotism, which Inglesant had so
long followed, had rendered any other uncongenial to him,
and it required little persuasion to induce him to re-enter
upon it.

But there were other causes at work which led to the same
result. For many weeks a sultry wind had, without variation,
passed over the south of Italy, laden with putrid exhalations
from the earth, and by its sullen steadiness causing stagnation
in the air. It would be difficult to describe the terrible effect
upon the mind and system of the long continuance of such a
state of the atmosphere. A restless fear and depression of
spirits prepared the body for the seeds of disease, and the
contagion, which was not perhaps generated in the atmosphere,
was carried by it with fearful rapidity. The plague
struck down its victims at once in city and in country, and
spared no rank nor condition of life. Then all bond of fellowship
and of society was loosened, strange crimes and suspicions,
strange even to that land of crime and treachery, — influenced
the lives and thoughts of all men. Innocent persons were
hunted to death, as poisoners and spreaders of infection ; the
terrors of the grave broke through the forms of artificial life,
and the depravity of the heart was exposed in ghastly nakedness,
as the bodies of the dead lay unburied by the waysides.

The Castello di San Georgio, standing on the summit of a
breezy hill, in a thinly-peopled district, was as safe a refuge as
could perhaps be found, and, if uneasiness of mind could have
been banished, might have been a happy one. Three hundred
years before, in the child-like unconsciousness of spiritual

conflict which the unquestioned rule of Rome for so long
produced, it had been possible, in the days of Boccaccio, for
cultivated and refined society to shut itself up in some earthly
paradise, and, surrounded by horrors and by death, to spend
its days in light wit and anecdote, undisturbed in mind, and
kept in bodily health by cheerful enjoyment ; but the time for
such possibilities as these had long gone by. A mental trouble
and uneasiness, which pervaded the whole of human life at
the most quiet times, gave place, at such periods of dread and
fear, to an intolerable restlessness, which altogether precluded
the placid enjoyment of the present, however guarded and
apparently secure.

The apprehension which most weighed upon Lauretta's
mind, was that her brother, flying from some city where the
pestilence raged, might be refused succour and. assistance, and
might even be murdered in the village to which he might flee.
Such incidents were of daily occurrence, nor can it be wondered
at that human precaution and terror became cruel and merciless,
when it is an authenticated fact that the very birds themselves
forsook the country places, and disappeared from their
native groves at the approach of the plague. Nor were inanimate
things, even, indifferent to the scourge ', patches and
blotches of infection broke out upon the walls and houses, and
when scraped off would reappear until the house itself was
burnt do^\^l.

It was in the midst of this ghastly existence, this life in
death, that a wandering mendicant, driven from Rome by the
pestilence and craving alms at the Castello, asserted that he
knew the Cavaliere di Guardino, and that he was ill in Rome,
doubtless by this time dead. The man probably lied, or, if it
were true that he had known the Cavaliere, as he had passed
him on the steps of the Trinity, the latter part of his story was
certainly imaginary. It caused Lauretta, however, so much
distress, that her husband, to comfort her, proposed to ride to

Rome, and endeavour to discover the truth. The plague was
not so virulent in Rome as it was in the south of Italy, and
especially in Naples, and to a man using proper precautions
the danger might not be very great. Lauretta was distracted.
The restless anxiety, which gave her no peace until her
brother's fate was known, urged her to let her husband go.
How, then, should she be more at ease when, in addition to
one vision of dread and apprehension, she would be haunted
by another ? The new anxiety seemed a relief from the old ;
anyhow the old was intolerable, — any change offered hope.

Upon his arrival at Rome Inglesant went hither and thither,
from place to place, as one false report and another led him.
Every beggar in the city seemed to have known the Cavaliere.
The contagion was sufficiently virulent to stop all amusements,
and to drive every one from the city who was not compelled to
remain. The streets were almost deserted, and those who
passed along them walked apart, avoiding each other, and
seldom spoke. The most frequented places were the churches,
and even there, the services were short and hurried, and
divested of everything that could attract the eye. In the unusual
silence the incessant tolling of the bells was more marked
than ever. White processions carrying the Host glided over
the hushed pavements.

Once Inglesant thought he had discovered the man of
whom he was in search. The Cavaliere, the story now ran,
had arrived in Rome a few days ago from Naples, where the
plague had the mastery, so that the living could not bury the
dead. He had come, flying towards the healthy north before
the pestilence, which had overtaken him as he entered the
Giovanni gate, and had taken refuge in a pest-house, which
had been established in the courtyard of a Httle church, " S.
Salvator in Lateran ad scales sancta." Thither Inglesant
repaired, in the full glare of an afternoon in the late summer.
In a sort of cloister, round a little courtyard, the beds were

laid out side by side, on which lay the dying and the dead.
Between the worn stones of the courtyard, sprinkled with
water, bright flowers were springing up. The monks were
flitting about ] two or three of these also were dead already.
Inglesant inquired for the stranger who had arrived from
Naples. He was dead, the monks told him, but not yet
taken away for burial; he lay there still upon his couch. They
took Inglesant to a corner of the courtyard, where, looking
down upon the dead body, he saw at once it was not that of
the Cavahere. It was the body of a man in the very prime of
life, of a singularly noble and lofty look. He lay with his
hand clasped over a little bit of crossed wood the monks had
made, his eyes closed, something like a smile upon his Hps.

The Cavaliere will not look Hke that," thought Inglesant
to himself.

Who was he? In some part of Italy, doubtless, there
were at that moment those who waited for him, and wondered,
just as he and Lauretta were doing. Perhaps in some distant
lazaretto some one might be standing over the body of the
Cavaliere, at just such a loss for a name and clue. It did not
seem strange to Inglesant; he had wandered through these
cross ways and tangled paths of life from a child.

He went out into the hot sunshine and down the long
straight street, by the great church of the Sancta Maria, into
the Via FeHx, scarcely knowing where he went. Across the
whole breadth of Rome the few persons he met regarded him
with suspicion, and crossed over to the other side. He himself
carried a pomander of silver in the shape of an apple,
stuffed with spices, which sent out a curious faint perfume
through small holes. He wandered down the steps of the
Trinity, where even the beggars were few and quiet, and seeking
unconsciously the cooler air of the river, passed the desolate
Corso, and came down to the Ripest, to the steps.

The sun was sinking now, and the western sky was all

ablaze with a strange light. All through the streets the image
of the dead man had haunted Inglesant, and the silent city
seemed full of such pale and mystic forms. The great dome
of St. Peter's stood out dark and clear against the yellow light,
which shone through the casements below the dome till the
whole seemed faint and ethereal as the air itself. In the
foreground, across the river, were low meadows, and the bare
branches of trees the leaves of which had already withered
and fallen. In the distance the pollard firs upon the ramparts
stood out distinctly in fantastic forms ; to the left the spires
and domes of the city shone in the light ; in front flowed the
dark river, still and slow. The large steps by the water's edge,
usually so crowded and heaped with market produce, were
bare and deserted ; a wild superstitious terror took possession
of Inglesant's mind.

In this solitude and loneliness, amid the busiest haunts of
life, with the image of death on every hand, he felt as though
the unseen world might at any moment manifest itself; the
lurid sky seemed ready to part asunder, and amid the silent
courts and pavements the dead would scarcely seem strangers
were they to appear. He stood waiting, as though expecting
a message from beyond the grave.

And indeed it seemed to come. As he stood upon the
steps a gray form came along the pathway on the further side
beneath the leafless trees and down the sloping bank. It
entered the small boat that lay moored beneath the alders
and guided itself across the stream. It stood erect and
motionless, propelling the skiff doubtless by an oar at the
stern, but from the place where Inglesant stood the boat
seemed to move of its own accord, Uke the magic bark in
some romance of chivalry. In its left hand the figure held
something which shone in the light; the yellow glamour of
the sunset, dazzling to Inglesant's eyes, fluttered upon its vestment
of whitish grey, and clothed in transparent radiance this

VOL. II. p

shadowy revenant from the tomb. It made no stay at the
landing-place, but, as though on an errand of life and death,
it came straight up the wide curved steps, holding forward in
its left hand a crucifix of brass. It passed within a step of
Inglesant, who was standing, thunderstruck, at the summit of
the steps, his silver pomander in his hand. As it passed him
he could see the face, pale and steadfast, with a bright lustre
in the eyes, and looking full upon him without pausing, the
friar, if it were a friar, said, —

He is in Naples. In that city, or near it, you will find
the man you seek. Ay ! and far more than you seek. Let
there be no delay on your part."

Then, still holding the crucifix forward at arm's length, as
though to cleave the poisoned air before him as he went, the
figure passed up the street, turning neither to the right nor to
the left, and, taking no notice of any of the few loiterers in his
way, passed quickly out of sight.

Inglesant turned to two fishermen who were coming slowly
down towards the ferry.

Did you see that Service friar?" he said.

The men gazed at him uneasily. " He is light-headed,"
one of them muttered ; " he has the plague upon him, and does
not know what he says."

Though he said this, they might have seen the friar all the
same, for Inglesant's manner was excited, and those were
perilous times in which to speak to strangers in the streets.
The two men got into the boat, and passed over hastily to
the other side.

Naples ! It was walking straight into the jaws of death.
The dead were lying in the streets in heaps, sprinkled hastily
with lime; and lavish gifts of freedom and of gold could
scarcely keep the galley slaves from breaking out of the city,
though they knew that poverty and probably destruction
awaited them elsewhere. But this strange message from

another world, which bore such an impress of a higher knowledge,
how could he disobey it ? " Far more than he sought."
These words haunted him. He made inquiries at the monastery
of the Jesuits in the Corso, but could hear nothing of
such a man. Most of those to whom he spoke were of opinion
that he had seen a vision. He himself sometimes thought it
an illusion of the brain, conjured up by the story of the man
who came from Naples, by the afternoon heat, and by the
sight of the dead ; but in all this the divine wisdom might be
working ; by these strange means the divine hand might guide.
*' Let there be no delay on your part." These words sounded
like a far-off echo of Father St. Clare's voice ; once again the
old habit of obedience stirred within him. Wife and child
and home stood in the path, but the training which first love
had been powerless to oppose was not likely to fail now.
Once again his station seemed to be given him. Before — upon
the scaffold, at the traitor's dock, in prison, — he had been found
at the appointed post ; would it be worth while now, when life
was so much farther run out, to falter and turn back ? The
higher walks of the holy life had indeed proved too difficult
and steep, but to this running-footman's sort of business he
had before proved himself equal ; — should he now be found untrustworthy
even in this ?

He resolved to go. If he returned at all, he would be back
at the Castello before any increased apprehension would be felt ;
if it were the will of God that he should never return, the Jesuit
fathers would undertake the care of Lauretta and his child.

He confessed and received the Sacrament at the Church
of the Gesu, in the Chapel of St Ignatius, in the clear morning
light, kneeling upon the cold brilliant marble floor. It was
the last day of July, very early, and the Church was swept and
garnished for the great festival of the Saint. Inglesant did
not wait for the saddened festival, but left Rome immediately
that the early mass was done.

CHAPTER XIV.

WHEN Inglesant had passed the Pontine Marshes, and
had come into the flowery and wooded country
about Mole, where the traveller begins to rejoice and to delight
his eyes, he found this beautiful land little less oppressive
than the dreary marshes he had left. The vineyards covered
the slopes, and hung their festoons on every side. The citron
and jasmin and orange bloomed around him; and in the
cooler and more shady walks flowers yet covered the
ground, in spite of the heat. The sober tints of the oaks and
beeches contrasted with the brilliant orange groves and vineyards,
and, with the palms and aloes, offered that variety
which usually charms the traveller ; and the distant sea, calm
and blue, with the long headlands covered with battlements
and gay villas, with plantations and terraces, carried the eye
onward into the dim unknown distance, with what is usually a
sense of delightful desire.

But as Inglesant rode along, an overpowering sense of
oppression and heaviness hung over this beautiful land. The
heat was intense ; no rain nor dew had fallen for many weeks.
The ground in most places was scored and hard, and the
leaves were withered. The brooks were nearly dry, and the
plantations near the roads were white with dust. An overpowering
perfume, sickly and penetrating, filled the air, and
seemed to choke the breath j a deadly stillness pervaded the
land; and scarcely a human form, either of wayfarer or
peasant, was to be seen.

At the small towns near to Naples every form of life was
silent and inert. Inglesant was received without difficulty, ashe
was going towards Naples ; but he was regarded with
wonder, and remonstrated with as courting certain death. He
halted at Averse, and waited till the mid-day heat was passed
Here, at last, there seemed some Httle activity and Hfe. A
sort of market even appeared to be held, and Inglesant asked
the host what it meant.

"When the plague first began in Naples, signore," he
said, " a market was established here to supply the city with
bread, fresh meat, and other provisions. Officers appointed
by the city came out hither, and conveyed it back. But, as
the plague became more deadly, most of those thus sent out
never returned to the city, in spite of the penalties to which
such conduct exposed them. Since the plague spread into
the country places, the peasants have mostly ceased to bring
their produce ; but what Httle is brought you see here, and
one of the magistrates is generally obliged to come out from
Naples to receive it."

"Is the city suffering from famine, then?" asked Inglesant.


The city is like hell itself, Signore il Cavaliere," replied
the host. " They tell me that he who looks upon it will never
be able to sleep peacefully again. They lie heaped together
in the streets, the dying and the dead. The hospitals are
choked with dead bodies, so that none dare go in. They
are blowing up masses of houses, so as to bury the bodies
under the ruins with lime and water and earth. Twenty
thousand persons have died in a single day. Those who have
been induced to touch the dead to cart them away never live
more than two days."

"The religious, and the physicians, and the magistrates,
then, remain at their posts ? " said Inglesant.

The host shrugged his shoulders.

There is not more to be said of one class than another,"
he said ; '* there are cowards in all. Many of the physicians
fled ; but, on the other hand, two strange physicians came
forward of their own accord, and offered to be shut up in the
Sancta Casa Hospital. They never came out alive. Many
of the religious fled ; but the Capuchins and the Jesuits, they
say, are all dead. Most of the Franciscan Friars are dead,
and all the great Carmelite. They run to all houses that are
most infected, and to those streets that are the most thronged
with putrefied bodies, and into those hospitals where the
plague is hottest ; and confess the sick and attend them to
their last gasp ; and receive their poisonous breath as though
it were the scent of a rose."

But is no attempt made to bury the dead ? "

They are letting out the galley slaves by a hundred at a
time," replied the host ; " they offer freedom and a pension
for life to the survivors, but none do survive. Fathers and
mothers desert their own children ; children their parents ;
nay, they throw them out into the streets to die. What
would you have ? "

The host paused, and looked at Inglesant curiously, as he
sat drinking some wine.

"Have you a lady-love in Naples, signore?" he said at
last ; " or are you heir to a rich man, and wish to save his
gold?"

I am leaving wife and child," replied Inglesant, bitterly,
to seek a man whom I hate, whom I shall never find under
the heaps of dead. You had better say at once that I am
mad. That is nearest to the truth."

The host looked at him compassionately, and left the
room.

In the cool of the evening Inglesant rode through the
deserted vineyards, and approached the barriers. On the
way he met some few foot-passengers, pale and emaciated.

trudging doggedly onwards. They were leaving death behind
them, but they saw nothing but misery and death elsewhere.
They took no notice of Inglesant as they passed. Many of
them, exhausted and smitten with the disease, sank down and
died by the wayside. When he arrived at the barriers, he
found them deserted, and no guard whatever kept. He left
his horse at a little sterna without the gate, which also seemed
deserted. There was hay in the stable, and the animal might
shift for himself if so inclined. Inglesant left him loose. Ashe
entered the city, and passed through the Largo into the
Strada Toledo, the sight that met his eyes was one never to
be forgotten.

The streets were full of people, — more so, indeed, than is
usual even in Naples ; for business was at a stand, the houses
were full of infection, and a terrible restlessness drove everyone
here and there. The stately rows of houses and palaces,
and the lofty churches, looked down on a changing, fleeting,
restless crowd, — unoccupied, speaking little, walking hither
and thither with no aim, every few minutes turning back and
retracing their steps. Every quarter of an hour or thereabouts
a confused procession of priests and laymen, singing doleful
and despairing miserere, and bearing the sacred Host with
canopy and crosses, came from one of the side streets, or out
of one of the churches, and proceeded along the Strada. As
these processions passed, every one prostrated themselves,
with an excess and desperate earnestness of devotion, and
many followed the host ; but in a moment or two those who
knelt or those who followed rose or turned away with gestures
of despair or distraction, as though incapable of sustained
action, or of confidence in any remedy. And at this there
could be no wonder, since this crowd of people were picking
their way amid a mass of dead corruption on every side of
them under their feet. On the stone pavement of the stately
Strada, on the palace stairs, on the steps before the churches.

lay corpses in every variety of contortion at which death can
arrive. Sick people upon beds and heaps of linen — some
delicate and costly, some filthy and decayed — lay mingled
with the dead ; they had been turned out of the houses, or
had deserted them to avoid being left to die alone \ and every
now and then some one of those who walked apparently in
health would lie do^vn, stricken by the heat or by the plague,
and join this prostrate throng, for whom there was no longer
in this world any hope of revival.

This sight, which would have been terrible anywhere, was
unutterably distressing and ghastly in Naples, the city of
thoughtless pleasure and of reckless mirth, — a city lying under
a blue and cloudless sky, by an azure sea, glowing in the
unsurpassable brilliancy and splendour of the sun. As this
dazzling blue and gold, before which all colours pale, made
the scene the most ghastly that could have been chosen as the
theatre for such an appalling spectacle, so, among a people
child-like and grotesque, seducing the stranger into sympathy
with its delight — a people crowned with flowers, and clothed
in colours of every shade, full of high and gay spirits, and
possessed of a conscience that gives no pain — this masque and
dance of death assumed an aspect of intolerable horror. Naples
was given over to pantomime and festival, leading dances and
processions with Thyrsus and garlands, and trailing branches of
fruit. The old Fabula and farce lingered yet beneath the delicious
sky and in the lovely spots of earth that lured the Pagan
to dream that earth was heaven. The poles and scaffolds and
dead flowers of the last festival still lingered in the streets.

In this city, turned at once into a charnel-house, — nay, into
a hell and place of torment, — the mighty, unseen hand suddenly
struck down its prey, and without warning seized upon the
wretched conscience, all unprepared for such a blow. The cast
of a pantomime is a strange sight beneath the glare and light
of midday ; but here were quacks and nobles, jugglers and

soldiers, comic actors and " filosofi," pleasure seekers and
monks, gentry and beggars, all surprised as it were, suddenly,
by the light and glare of the death angel's torch, and crowded
upon one level stage of misery and despair.

Sick and dizzy with horror, and choked with the deadly
smell and malaria, Inglesant turned into several sterna, but
could find no host in any. In several he saw sights which
chilled his blood. At last he gave up the search, and, weary
as he was, sought the hospitals. The approaches to some of
these were so blocked up by the dead and the dying who had
vainly sought admission, that entrance was impossible. In
others the galley slaves were at work. In every open spot of
ground where the earth could be disturbed without cutting off
the water pipes which ran through the city, trenches had been
dug, and the bodies which were collected from the streets and
hospitals were thrown hastily into them, and covered with lime
and earth. Inglesant strayed into the " Monte della Misericordia,"
which had recently been cleared of the dead. A few
sick persons lay in the beds ; but the house seemed wonderfully
clean and sweet, and the rooms cool and fresh. The
floors were soaked with vinegar, and the place was full of the
scent of juniper, bay berries, and rosemary, which were burning
in every room. It seemed to Inglesant like a little heaven
and he sank exhausted upon one of the beds. They brought
him some wine, and presently the Signore di Mauro, one of the
physicians appointed by the city, who still remained bravely at
his post, came and spoke to him.

I perceive that you are a stranger in Naples, and untouched
by the disease," he said. " I am at a loss to account
for your presence here. This house is indeed cleared for a
moment, but it is the last time that we can expect help. The
supply of galley slaves is failing, and when it stops entirely,
which it must in a few days, I see nothing in the future but
the general extirpation of all the inhabitants of this fated city.

and that its vast circumference, filled with putrefaction and
venom, will afterwards be uninhabitable to the rest of mankind."


This doleful foreboding made little impression upon Inglesant,
who was, indeed, too much exhausted both in mind and
body to pay much attention to anything.

"I am come to Naples," he said faintly, "in search of
another ; will you let me stay in this house to-night ? I can
find no one in the inns."

I will do better for you than that," said the good physician
; " you shall come to my own house, which is free from
infection. I have but one inmate, an old servant, who, I
think, is too dry and withered a morsel even for the plague.
I am going at once."

Something in Inglesant's manner probably attracted him,
otherwise it is difficult to account for his kindness to a stranger
under such circumstances.

They went out together. Inglesant by chance seemed to
be about to turn into another and smaller street — the physician
pulled him back hurriedly with a shudder.

"Whatever you do," he said in a whisper, "keep to the
principal thoroughfares. I dare not recollect — the most heated
imagination would shrink from conceiving — the unutterable
horrors of the bye-streets."

Picking their way among the dead bodies, which the slaves,
with handkerchiefs steeped in vinegar over their faces, were
piling into carts, the two proceeded down the Strada.

Inglesant asked the physician how the plague first began
in Naples.

It is the terrible enemy of mankind," replied the other —
he was rather a pompous man, with all his kindness and
devotion, and used long words — "that walks stained with
slaughter by night. We know not whence it comes. Before
it are beautiful gardens, crowded habitations, and populous

cities ; behind it unfruitful emptiness and howling desolation.
Before it the guards and armies of mighty princes are as dead
men, and physicians are no protection either to the sick or to
themselves. Some imagine that it comes from the cities of the
East ; some that it arises from poverty and famine, and from
the tainted and perishing flesh, and unripe fruits and hurtful
herbs, which, in times of scarcity and dearth, the starving
people greedily devour to satisfy their craving hunger. Others
contend that it is inflicted immediately by the hand of God.
These are mostly the priests. When we have puzzled our
reason, and are at our wat's end through ignorance, we come
to that. I have read something in a play, written by one of
your countrymen — for I perceive you are an Englishman —
where all mistakes are laid upon the King."

They were arrived by this time at the physician's house,
and were received by an old woman whose appearance fully
justified her master's description. She provided for Inglesant's
wants, and prepared a bed for him, and he sank into an uneasy
and restless sleep. The night was stiflingly hot, suppressed
cries and groans broke the stillness, and the distant chanting
of monks was heard at intervals. Soon after midnight the
churches were again crowded ; mass was said, and thousands
received the Sacrament with despairing faith. The physician
came into Inglesant's room early in the morning.

I am going out," he said ; " keep as much as possible out
of the churches ; they spread the contagion. The magistrates
washed to close them, but the superstitious people would not
hear of it. I will make inquiries, and if any of the religious,
or any one else, has heard your friend's name, I will send you
word. I may not return."

Shortly after he was gone, the crowd thronging in one
direction before Inglesant's window caused him to rise and
follow. He came to one of the slopes of the hill of Santo
Martin, above the city. Here a crowd, composed of every

class from a noble down to the lowest lazzaroni, were engaged,
in the clear morning light, in building a small house. Some
were making bricks, some drawing along stones, some carrying
timber. A nun had dreamed that were a hermitage erected
for her order the plague would cease, and the people set to
work, with desperate earnestness, to finish the building. By
the wayside up the ascent were set empty barrels, into which
the wealthier citizens dropped gold and jewels to assist the
work. As Inglesant was standing by, watching the work, he
was accosted by a dignified, highly bred old gentleman, in a
velvet coat and Venice lace, who seemed less absorbed in the
general panic than the rest.

This is a strange sight," he said ; " what the tyranny of
the Spaniards was not able to do, the plague has done. When
the Spaniard was storming the gates the gentlemen of the
Borgo Santa Maria and the lazzaroni fought each other in the
streets, and the gentlemen avowed that they preferred any
degree of foreign tyranny to acknowledging or associating with
the common people. With this deadly enemy not only at the
gates but in the very midst of us, gentlemen and lazzaroni toil
together without a thought of suspicion or contempt. The
plague has made us all equal. I perceive that you are a
stranger. May I ask what has brought you into this ill-fated
city at such a time?"

I am in search of my relation, il Cavalier di Guardino,"
replied Inglesant; "do you know such a name?"

"It seems familiar to me," replied the old gentleman.
Have you reason to suppose that he is in Naples?"

Inglesant said that he had.

The persons most likely to give you information would
be the Signori, the officers of the galleys. They would doubtless
be acquainted with the Cavaliere before the plague became
so violent, and would know, at any rate, whether it was his
intention to leave Naples or not. The galleys He, as you

know, moored together there in the bay, and many other ships
lie near them, upon which persons have taken refuge who behave
that the plague cannot touch them on the water — an expectation
in which, I believe, many have been fatally deceived."

Inglesant thanked the gentleman, and inquired how it was
that he remained so calm and unconcerned amidst the general
consternation.

I am too old for the plague," he replied ; "nothing can
touch me but death itself. I am also," he continued with a
peculiar smile, " the fortunate possessor of a true piece of the
holy Cross ; so that you see I am doubly safe."

Inglesant went at once to the harbour, musing on the way
on these last words, and wondering whether they were spoken
in good faith or irony.

The scenes in the streets seemed more terrible even than
on the preceding day. The slaves were engaged here and
there in removing the bodies, but the task was far beyond
their strength. Cries of pain and terror were heard on all
sides, and every now and then a maddened ^^Tetch would
throw himself from a window, or would rush, naked perhaps,
from a house, and, stumbling and leaping over the corpses and
the dying, like the demoniac among the tombs, would fling
himself in desperation into the water of the harbour, or over
the walls into the moats. One of these maniacs, passing close
to Inglesant, attempted to embrace a passer-by, who coolly
ran him through the body with his sword, the bystanders
applauding the act.

In the harbour corpses were floating, which a few slaves
in boats were feebly attempting to drag together with hooks.
They escaped their efforts, and rose and sank with a ghastly
resemblance to life. Upon the quay Inglesant fortunately
found the physician, Signore Mauro, who was himself going
on board the galleys to endeavour to procure the loan of more
slaves. He offered to take Inglesant with him.

As they went the physician told him he had not discovered
any trace of the CavaUere ; but what was very curious, he said,
many other persons appeared to be engaged in the same search.
It might be that all these people were in fact but one, multiplied
by the forgetfulness, and by the excited imaginations, of
those from whom Signore Mauro had obtained his information
; but, if these persons were to be believed, monks, friars,
physicians, soldiers, and even ladies, were engaged in this
singular search in a city where all ties of friendship were forgotten,
for a man whom no one knew.

As they shot over the silent water, and by the shadowy
hulks of ships lying idle and untended, with the cry of the city
of the dead behind them and the floating corpses around,
Inglesant listened to the physician as a man listens in a dream.
Long shadows stretched across the harbour, which sparkled
beneath the rays of the newly-risen sun; a sudden swoon
stole over Inglesant's spirits, through which the voice of the
physician sounded distant and faint. He gave himself up for
lost, yet he felt a kind of dim expectation that something was
about to happen which these unknown inquirers foretold.

The galleys lay moored near together, with several other
ships of large size in company. Signore Mauro climbed to
the quarter-deck of the largest galley, on which the commodore
was, and Inglesant followed him, still hardly knowing
what he did. The oars were shipped, but the slaves were
chained to their benches, as though the galleys were at sea.
They were singing and playing at cards. Upon the quarterdeck,
pointing to the long files of slaves, were two loaded
howitzers, behind each of which stood a gunner with a lighted
match. Soldiers, heavily armed and with long whips, paraded
the raised gangway or passage, which ran the whole length of
the ship between the rows of benches upon which the slaves
were placed. The officers were mostly on the quarter-deck ;
they looked pale and excited, though it was singular that few

or no cases of the plague had occurred among the slaves who
remained on board. The decks were washed with vinegar,
and the galleys and slaves were much cleaner than usual.

The physician stated his request to the commander, who
ordered ten slaves from every galley to be sent on shore.
Some were wanted to act as bakers, some as butchers, most
of the artizans in the city having fled or perished. A boatswain
was ordered to make the selection. He chose one or
two, and then called upon the rest to volunteer. Inglesant
was standing by him on the gangway, looking down the files
of slaves. There were men of every age, of every rank, and
almost of every country. As the boatswain gave the word,
every hand was held up ; to all these men death was welcome
at the end of two or three days' change of life, abundance of
food, and comparative freedom. The boatswain selected ten
by chance.

Signore Mauro inquired among the officers concerning the
Cavaliere, but could obtain no positive information. ]\Iost
had heard the name, some professed to have kno\\Ti him intimately;
all united in saying he had left Naples. Inglesant
and the physician visited two or three other galleys, but with
no greater success. They returned on shore as the heat was
becoming intense ; the churches were crowded, and the Holy
Sacrament was exhibited every few moments. The physician
refused to enter any of them.

Then Inglesant determined to try the hospitals again. He
went to the " Santa Casa degli Incurable," which the day
before he had not been able to approach for the dying and
the dead. The slaves had worked hard all night, and hundreds
of corpses had been removed and buried in a vast trench
without the wall of the hospital. Inglesant passed through
many of the rooms, and spoke to several of the religious
persons who were tending the sick, but could learn nothing of
the object of his search. At last one of the monks conducted

him into the strange room called the " Antipater di Morte,"
to which, in more orderly times, the patients whose cases were
hopeless were removed.

There, at the last extremity of life, before they were hurried
into the great pit outside the walls, lay the plague-stricken.
Some unconscious, yet with fearful throes and gasps awaiting
their release ; some in an agony of pain and death, crying upon
God and the Saints. Kneeling by the bedsides were several
monks ; but at the farther end of the room, bending over a
sick man, was a figure in a friar's gown that made Inglesant
stop suddenly, and his heart beat quicker as he caught his
companion's arm.

Who is that friar. Father ? " he said, " the one at the end,
bending over the bed ? "

Ah ! that," said the priest, " that is Father Gratia of the
Capuchins ; a very holy man, and devoted to mortification
and good works. He is blind, though he moves about so
cleverly. He says that, to within the last few years, his life
was passed in every species of sin ; and he relates that he was
solemnly given over to the vengeance of the blessed Gesu by
his mortal enemy, the minion of a Cardinal, and that the
Lord has afflicted him with untold sorrows and sufferings to
bring him to Himself, and to a life of holy mortification and
charity, which he leads unceasingly — night and day. He is
but now come in hither, knowing that the sick man by whose
bed he is, is dying of the plague in its most fearful form, — a
man whom none willingly will approach. Mostly he is in the
vilest dens of the city, reeking with pestilence, where to go, to
all save him, is certain death. His holiness and the Lord's
will keep him, so that the plague cannot touch him. Ah ! he
is coming this way."

It was true. The friar had suddenly started from his recumbent
position, conscious that the man before him was no
more. At the same moment, his mind, released from the

attention which had riveted it before, seemed to become aware
of a presence in the chamber of death which was of the
interest interest. He came down the passage in the centre of
the room with an eager unfaltering step, as though able to see,
and coming to within a few feet of the two men, he stopped,
and looked towards them with an excited glance, as though
he saw their faces. Inglesant was embarrassed, and hesitated
whether to recognize him or not. At last, pitying the look in
the blind man's face, he said, —

This holy Father is not unknown to me, though I know
not that he would desire to meet me again. I am 'the
minion of a Cardinal ' of whom you spoke."

The friar stretched out his hands before him, with an
eager, delighted gesture.

I knew it," he said ; " I felt your presence long before
you spoke. It signifies little whether I am glad to find
you or no. It is part of the Lord's purpose that we should
meet."

This is a strange and sanctified meeting," said the priest,
in the room of death, and by the beds of the dead. Doubtless
you have much to say that can only be said to yourselves
alone."

I cannot stay," said the friar, wildly. " I came in here
but for a moment ; for this wretched man who is gone to his
account needed one as wretched and as wicked as himself.
But they are dying now in the streets and alleys, calling upon
the God whom they know not ; they need the vilest sinner to
whom the Lord has been gracious to kneel by their side ; they
need the vilest sinner ; therefore I must go."

He stopped for a moment, then he said more calmly, —
Meet me in the Santa Charm, behind the altar, by the tomb
of the wise King, this evening at sunset. By that time,
though the need will be as pressing, yet the frail body will
need a little rest, and I will speak with you for an hour. Fail

VOL. II. Q

not to come. You will learn how your sword was the sword,
and your breath was the breath of the Lord."

I will surely be there," said Inglesant.

The friar departed, leaving the priest and Inglesant alone.
They went out into the garden of the hospital, a plot of
ground planted with fruit-trees, and with vines trailing over
the high stone walls. Walking up and down in the shade,
with the intense blue of the sky overhead, one might for a
time forget the carnival of death that was crowding every
street and lane around. Inglesant inquired of his companion
more particularly concerning the friar.

He is a very holy man," said the priest, with a significant
gesture; "but he is not right in his head. His sufferings
have touched his brain. He believes that he has seen the
Lord in a vision, and not only so, but that all Rome was likewise
a witness of the miracle. It is a wonderful story, which
doubtless he wishes to relate to you this evening."

CHAPTER XV.

IN the vast Church of the Santa Charm, with its open nave
which spread itself on every side like a magic hall of
romance, the wide floor and the altars of the side Chapels
had been crowded all day by prostrate worshippers; but when
Inglesant entered it about sunset, it was comparatively empty.
A strange unearthly perfume filled the Church, and clouds of
incense yet hovered beneath the painted ceiling, and obscured
the figure of the Saint chasing his enemies. Streaks of light,
transfigured through the coloured prism of the prophets and
martyrs that stood in the painted glass, lighted up the wreaths
of smoke, and coloured the marbles and frescoes of the walls
and altars. The mystic glimmer of the sacred tapers in the
shaded chapels, and the concluding strains of the chanting
before the side altars, which had followed the vesper service
and benediction, filled the Church with half light and half
shadow, half silence and half sound, very pleasing and soothing
to the sense.

Inglesant passed up the Church towards the high altar,
before which he knelt ; and as he did so, a procession, carrying
the Sacrament, entered by another door, and advanced to
the altar, upon which it was again deposited. The low, melancholy
miserere — half entreating, half desponding — spoke to
the heart of man a language like its own ; and as the theme
was taken up by one of the organs, the builder's art and the
musician's melted into one — in tier after tier of carved imagery,
wave after wave of mystic sound. All conscious thought and

striving seemed to fade from the heart, and before the altar
and amid the swell of sound the soul lost itself, and lay silent
and passive on the Eternal Love.

Behind the high altar Inglesant found the friar by the
grave of the wise King. Upon the slabs of the Gothic tomb,
covered with carving and bas-relief, the King is seated and
dressed in royal robes \ but upon the sarcophagus he lies in
death bereft of all his state, and clothed in no garment but a
Franciscan's gown. Beside him lies his son in his royal robes,
covered with fleurs-de-lis ; and other tombs of the kingly race
of Anjou surround him, all emblazoned with coat armour and
device of rank.

Between the tombs of the two kings stood the friar, his
head bowed upon his hands. The light grew every moment
less and less bright, and the shadows stretched ever longer
and longer across the marble floor. The lamps before the
shrines, and the altar tapers in the funeral chapels, shone out
clearer and more distinct. The organs had ceased, but the
dolorous chanting of the miserere from beyond the high altar
still came to them with a remote and wailing tone.

Inglesant advanced towards the friar, who appeared to be
aware of his presence by instinct, and raised his head as he
drew near. He returned no answer to Inglesant's greeting,
but seated himself upon a bench near one of the tombs, and
began at once, like a man who has Utile time to spend.

I am desirous," he said, " of telling you at once of what
has occurred to me. Who can tell what may happen at any
moment to hinder unless I do ? It is a strange and wonderful
story, in which you and I and all men would be but puppets
in the Divine Hand were not the Divine Love such that
we are rather children led onward by their Father's hand —
welcomed home by their Mother's smile."

It was indeed a strange story that the friar told Inglesant
in the darkening Church. In places it was incoherent and

obscure. The first part of his narrative, as it relates to others
besides himself, is told here in a different form, so that, if
possible, what really happened might be known. The latter
part, being untranslatable into any other language and inexplicable
upon any basis of fact, must be told in his own words.

"Amen you left me at the mountain chapel," said the
friar, " I thought of nothing but that I had escaped with life.
I thought I had met with a Fantastic, whose brain was turned
with monkish fancies, and I blessed my fortunate stars that
such had been the case. I thought Httle of the Divine vengeance
that dogged my steps."

When Inglesant met Malvolti upon the mountain pass (ashe
gathered from the friar's narrative) the latter, utterly penniless
and undone, having exhausted ever)^ shift and art of policy,
and being so well-known in all the cities of Italy that he was
safe in none of them, had bethought himself of his native place.
It was, indeed, almost the only place where his character was
unknown, and his person comparatively safe. But it had other
attractions for the hunted and desperate man. Malvolti's
father had died when his son was a boy, and his mother in a
year or two married again His step-father was harsh and unkind
to the fatherless child, and the seeds of evil were sown
in the boy's heart by the treatment he received ; but a year
after this marriage a Httle girl was born, who won her way at
once into the heart of the forlorn and unhappy lad. He washer
constant plajTnate, protector, and instructor. For several
years the only happy moments of his life were passed when he
could steal away with her to the woods and hills, wandering
for hours together alone or with the wood-cutters and charcoal-burners
; and when, after a few years, the unkindness of his
parents and his own restless and passionate nature sent him
out into the world in which he played so evil a part, the image
of the innocent child followed him into scenes of ^^ce, and
was never obliterated from his memory The murmur of the

leaves above the fowling-floor where they lay together during
the mid-day heat, the splash of the fountains where they
watched the flocks of sheep drinking, followed him into strange
places and foreign countries, and arose to his recollection in
moments of danger, and even of passion and crime.

The home of Malvolti's parents had been in the suburb of
a small town of the Bolognese. Here, at some little height
above the to^vn on the slope of the wooded hills, a monastery
and chapel had been erected, and in course of time some
few houses had grouped themselves around, among which that
of Malvolti's father had been the most considerable. The sun
was setting behind the hills when Malvolti, weary, dispirited,
and dying of hunger, came along the winding road from the
south, which skirted the projecting spurs of the mountains.
The slanting rays penetrated the woods, and shone between
the openings of the hills, lighting up the grass-grown buildings
of the monastery, and the belfry of the little Chapel, where
the bell was ringing for vespers. Below, the plain stretched
itself peacefully \ a murmur of running water blended with the
tolling of the bell. A waft of peace and calm, like a breeze
from paradise, fell upon Malvolti's heart, and he seemed to
hear soft voices welcoming him home. He pictured to himself
his mother's kind greeting, his sister's delight; even his
stern step-father's figure was softened in the universal evening
glow. It was a fairy vision, in which the passing years had
found no place, where the avenging footsteps that follow sin
did not come, and which had no reality in actual existence.
He turned the angle of the wood, and stood before his home.
It lay in ruins and desolate.

The sun sank below the hills, the bell went on tolling
monotonously through the deepening gloom. Dazed and
faint, Malvolti followed its tones into the Chapel, where the
vesper service began. When it was ended the miserable man
spoke to one of the monks, and craved some food. Deprived

of his last hope, his senses faint and dull with weariness and
hunger, and lulled by the soft strains of devout sound — his
life confessed at last to have been completely a failure, and
the wages of sin to have turned to withered leaves in his hand
his heart was more disposed than perhaps it had ever been
to listen to the soft accents of penitence, and to hear the
whispering murmur that haunts the shadows walks of mortified
repentance. Comforted by food, the kindly words of pity
and exhortation stole upon his senses, and he almost fancied
that he might find a home and peace without further wandering
and punishment. He was much deceived.

He inquired concerning the fate of those whom, debased
and selfish as he was, he still loved, especially now, when the
sight of long-forgotten but still familiar places recalled the
past, and seemed to obliterate the intervening years. The
monks told him a story of sorrow and of sin, such as he himself
often had participated in, and would have heard at another
time with a smile of indifference. His step-father was dead,
killed in a feud which his own insolent temper had provoked.
His mother and sister had continued for some time to live in
the same house, and there perhaps he might have found them,
had not a gentleman, whose convenience had led him to claim
the hospitality of the monastery for a night's rest, chanced to
see his sister in the morning as he mounted his horse. The
sight of a face, whose beauty combined a haughty clearness of
outline with a certain coy softness of expression, and a figure
of perfect form, detained him from his intended journey, and
he obtained admittance into the widow's house. What vizard
arts he practised the monks did not know, but when he departed
he left anxiety and remorse where he had found content
and a certain peace. In due time the two women, despairing
of his return, had followed him, and the younger, the monks
had heard (and they believed the report) — ill-treated and
spurned — was now living in Florence a life of sin. The

softened expression of rest and penitence which had begun to
show itself in Malvolti's face left it, and the more habitual one
of cruel and hungry sin returned as he inquired, —

Did the Reverend Fathers remember the name of this
man?"

The good monks hesitated as they saw the look in the
inquirer's face ; but it was not their duty to conceal the truth
from one who undoubtedly had a right to be informed of it.

It is our duty to practise forgiveness, even of the greatest
injuries, my son," one of them replied; "our blessed Lord has
enjoined it, and left us this as an example, that He has forgiven
us. The man was called il Cavaliere di Guardino."

The monks were relieved when they saw that their guest
showed no emotion upon hearing this name; only he said that
he must go to Florence and endeavour to find his sister.

But in truth there was in the man's mind, under a calm
exterior, a crisis of feeling not easy to describe. That the
Cavaliere, his familiar accomplice, in whose company and by
whose aid he had himself so often committed ravages upon the
innocent, should, in the chance medley of life, be selected to
inflict this blow, affected him in a strange and unaccustomed
way, with the sense of a hitherto unrecognized justice at work
among the affairs of men. He was so utterly at the end of all
his hopes, life was so completely closed to him, and his soul
was so sorely stricken, in return for all his sins, in the only
holy and sacred spot that remained in his fallen nature, — his
love and remembrance of his sister, — that it seemed as if a
revulsion of feeling might take place, and that, in this depth
and slough, there might appear, though dimly, the possibility
of an entrance into a higher life. He was better known in
Florence than in any city of Italy, except Rome ; and if he
went there his violent death was almost certain, yet he determined
to go. He assured Inglesant afterwards, in relating the
story, that his object was not revenge, but that his desire was

to seek out and rescue his sister. Revenge doubtless brooded
in his mind ; but it was not the motive which urged him onward.


He told Inglesant a strange story of his weary journey to
Florence, subsisting on charity from convent to convent ; of
his wandering up and down in the beautiful city, worn out with
hunger and fatigue, unknown, and hiding himself from recognition.
Amid the grim forms of vice that haunted the shadowy
recesses of the older parts of the city, in the vaulted halls of
deserted palaces and the massive fastnesses of patrician strife,
he flitted like a ghost, pale and despairing, urged on by a restless
desire that knew no respite. In these dens of a reckless
life, which had thrown off all restraint and decorum, he recognized
many whom he had known in other days, and in far
different places. In these gloomy halls, which had once been
bright with youth and gaiety, but were now hideous with
poverty and crime, — in which the windows were darkened,
and the coloured ceilings and frescoed walls were blurred with
smoke and damp, and which were surrounded by narrow alleys
which shut out the light, and cut them off" from all connection
with the outer world, — he at last heard of the Cavaliere. He
was told that, flying from Rome after his sister's marriage, he
had been arrested for some offence in the south of Italy, and
those into whose hands he fell being old enemies, and bearing
him some grudge, he was thrown into prison, and even condemned
to the galleys; for, since the Papal election, he was no
longer able to claim even a shadow of protection from any of
the great families who had once been his patrons. After a
short imprisonment he was deputed, among others, to perform
some such office as Inglesant had seen undertaken by the
slaves in Naples ; for the plague had raged for some summers
past, with more or less intensity, in southern Italy. "While
engaged in this work he had managed to make his escape, and
had not long since arrived in Florence, where he had kept

himself closely concealed. Malvolti was told the secret lurking-place
where he might probably be found.

It was a brilliantly hot afternoon," continued Malvolti,
speaking very slowly ; " you will wonder that I tell you this ;
but it was the last time that I ever saw the sun. I remember
the bright and burning pavements even in the narrow alleys out
of which I turned into the long and dark entries and vaulted
rooms. I followed some persons who entered before me, and
some voices which led me onward, into a long and lofty room
in the upper stories, at the farther end of which, before a high
window partially boarded up, some men were at play. As I
came up the room, all the other parts of which lay in deep
shadow, the light fell strongly upon a corner of the table, and
upon the man who was casting the dice. He had just thrown
his chance, and he turned his head as I came up. He
appeared to be naked except his slippers and a cloak or
blanket of white cloth, with pale yellow stripes. His hair was
closely cropped; his face, which was pale and aquiline, was
scarred and seamed with deep Hues of guilt and misery, especially
around the eyes, from which flashed a lurid light, and
his lips were parted with a mocking and Satanic laugh. His
dark and massive throat and chest and his long and sinewy
arms forced their way out of the cloth with which he was
wrapped, and the lean fingers of both hands, which crossed
each other convulsively, were pointed exultantly to the deuce
of ace which he had thrown. The last sight I ever saw, the
last sight my eyes will ever behold until they open before the
throne of God, was this demon-like figure, standing out clear
and distinct against the shadowy gloom in which dim figures
seemed to move, and the dice upon the table by his side.

He burst out into a wild and mocking laugh. ' Ah, Mal-volt,'
he said, 'you were ever unlucky at the dice. Come
and take your chances in the next main.'

I know not what fury possessed me, nor why, at that

moment especially, this man's mocking villany inspired me
with such headlong rage. I remembered nothing but the
crimes and wrongs which he had perpetrated. I drew the
dagger I carried beneath my clothes, and sprang upon him
with a cry as wild as his own. What happened I cannot
tell. I seemed to hear the laughter of fiends, and to feel the
tortures of hell on every side. Then all was darkness and
the grave."

Overpowered as it seemed by the recollection of his sufferings,
the friar paused and sank upon his knees upon the
pavement. The miserere had died away, and a profound
gloom, broken only by the flicker of tapers, filled the Church.
Inglesant was deeply moved, — less, however, by sympathy with
the man's story than by the consciousness of the emotions
which he himself experienced. It was scarcely possible to
believe that he was the same man who, some short years
before, had longed for this meeting with a bloodthirsty desire
that he might take some terrible vengeance upon his brother's
murderer. Now he stood before the same murderer, who not
so long before had attempted to take his life also with perhaps
the very dagger of which he now spoke ; and as he looked down
upon him, no feeling but that of pity was in his heart. In the
presence of the awful visitant who at that moment was filling
the city which lay around them with death and corruption, and
before whose eternal power the strife and enmity of man shrank
away appalled and silenced, it was not wonderful that inordinate
hate should cease ; but, as he gazed upon the prostrate
man before him, an awe-inspiring feeling took possession of
Inglesant's mind, which still more effectually crushed every
sentiment of anger or revenge. The significance of his own
half-conceived action was revealed to him, and he recognized,
with something approaching to terror, that the cause was no
longer his, that another hand had interposed to strike, and
that his sword had spared the murderer of his brother only

that he might become the victim of that divine vengeance
which has said, " I will repay."

The friar rose from his knees. " I found myself in the
monastery of the Capuchins on the bank of the river, blind,
and holding life by the faintest thread. That I lived was a
miracle. I had been struck with some twenty wounds, and in
mere wantonness my eyes had been pierced as I lay apparently
dead. I was thrown into the river which flowed by gloomy
vaults beneath the houses, and had been carried down by the
stream to the garden of a monastery where I was found. As
I recovered strength the monks thought that my reason would
not survive. For days and nights I lay bound, a raving madman.
At last, when my pains subsided, and my mind was a
little calmed and subdued, I was sent out into the world and
begged my way from village to village, not caring where I
went, my mind an utter blank, filled only now and then with
horrible sights and dreams. I had no sense of God or Christ ;
no feeling but a blind senseless despair and confusion. Thus
I wandered on. I got at last a boy to lead me and buy me
food. I know not why I did not rather lie down and die.
Sometimes I did fling myself down, resolving not to move
again ; but some love of life or some divine prompting caused
me to rise and wander on in my miserable path. At last,
towards the end of the year, I came to Rome, and wandered
about the city seeking alms. The boy who led me, and who
had attached himself to me, God knows why, told me all he
saw and all that passed ; and I, who knew every phase and
incident of Roman life, explained to him such things in a
languid and indifferent way ; for I found no pleasure nor relief
in anything. I grew more and more miserable ; our Hfe was
hard, and we were ill-fed, and the terrors of my memory haunted
my spirits, weakened and depressed for want of food. The
forms of those whom I had wronged, nay, murdered, lay before
me. They rose and looked upon me from every side. My

misery was greater than I could bear. I desired death, and
tried to accomplish it, but my hand always failed. I bought
poison, but my boy watched me and changed the drink. I
did not know this, and expected death. It did not come.
Then suddenly, as I lay in a kind of trance, that morning in
the mountain pass came into my remembrance, and it flashed
suddenly into my mind that I was not my own ; that no poison
could hurt me, no sword slay me ; that the sword of vengeance
was in the Lord's hand, and would work His will alone. What
greater punishment could be in store for me I knew not, but
stunned by this idea I ceased to strive and cry any more. I
waited in silence for the final blow ; it came. The year had
come nearly to an end, and it was Christmas Eve. All day
long, in the Churches in Rome, had the services, the processions,
the religious shows, gone on. My boy and I had
followed them one by one, and he had, in his boyish way, told
me all that he saw. The new Pope went in procession to St.
John di Lateran, with all the Cardinals, Patriarchs, Archbishops,
and Bishops, all the nobility and courtiers, and an
interminable length of attendants, Sitters, soldiers, led horses,
servants, pages, rich coaches, litters, and people of every class,
under triumphal arches, with all excess of joy and triumph.
As midnight drew on the streets were as light as day. Every
pageant became more gorgeous, every service more sweet and
ravishing, every sermon more passionate. I saw it all in my
mind's eye, — all, and much beside. I saw in every Church,
lighted by sacred tapers before the crucifix, the pageants and
ceremonies that, in every form and to every sense, present
the story of the mystic birth, of that divine fact that alone can
stay the longing which, since men walked the earth, they have
uttered in every tongue, that the Deity would come down and
dwell with man. We had wandered through all the Churches,
and at last, wearied out, we reached the Capitol, and sank
down beneath the balusters at the top of the marble stairs.

Close by, in the Ara Coeli, the simple country people and the
faithful whose hearts were as those of little children, kneeling
as the shepherds knelt upon the plains of Bethlehem, saw the
Christ-child lying in a manger, marked out from common
childhood by a mystic Hght which shone from His face and
form j while the organ harmonies which filled the Church resigned
their wonted splendours, and bent for once to pastoral
melodies, which, born amid the rustling of sedges by the river
brink, have wandered down through the reed-music and festivals
of the country people, till they grew to be the most fitting
tones of a religion which takes its aptest similes from the vineyard
and the flock. All over Rome the flicker of the bonfires
mingled with the starlight. I was Wind, yet I saw much that
would have been hidden from me had I been able to see. I
saw across the roofs before me, the dome of the Pantheon
and St. Peter's, and the long hne of the Vatican, and the
round outline of St. Angelo in the light of the waning moon.
This I should have seen had I had my sight ; but I saw behind
me now what otherwise I should not have seen — the Forum,
and the lines of arches and ruins, and beyond these the walks
of the Aventine and of the Caelia, with their vineyards and
white convents, and tall poplar and cypress trees. I saw
beyond them the great Churches of the Lateran and Santa
Croce in Jerusalem, standing out from the green country,
pale and spectral in the light. To the left I saw Santa Maria
Maggiore, stately and gorgeous, facing the long streets of
palaces and courts, and the gardens and terraces of the Quirinal,
all distinct and clear in the mystic light. The white
Hght covered the earth like a shroud, and over the vault of
the sky were traced, by the pale stars, strange and obscure
forms, as over the dome of St. Peter's at evening when the
Church is dim. A confused sound filled my ears, a sound of
chanting and of praise for that advent that brought peace to
men, a sound of innumerable passing feet, and in all the

Churches and basilicas I saw the dead Christs over the altars
and the kneeling crowds around. Suddenly it seemed to me
that I was conscious of a general movement and rush of feet,
and that a strange and wild excitement prevailed in every
region of Rome. The Churches became emptied, the people
pouring out into the streets ; the dead Christs above the altars
faded from their crosses, and the sacred tapers went out of
their own accord; for it spread through Rome, as in a moment,
that a miracle had happened at the Ara Coeli, and that the
living Christ was come. From where I stood I could see the
throngs of people pouring through every street and lane, and
thronging up to the Campadoglio and the stairs ; and from
the distance and the pale Campagna, and San Paolo without
the walls, and from subterranean Rome, where the martyrs and
confessors lie, I could see strange and mystic shapes come
sweeping in through the brilliant light.

He came down the steps of the Ara Coeli, and the sky
was full of starlike forms, wonderful and gracious ; and all the
steps of the Capitol were full of people down to the square of
the Ara Coeli, and up to the statue of Aurelius on horseback
above; and the summit of the Capitol among the statues, and
the leads of the palace Caffarelli, were full of eager forms ; for
the starlight was so clear that all might see; and the dead
gods, and the fauns, and the satyrs, and the old pagans, that
lurked in the secret hiding-places of the ruins of the Caesar,
crowded up the steps out of the Forum, and came round the
outskirts of the crowd, and stood on the fallen pillars that they
might see. And Castor and Pollux, that stood by their unsaddled
horses at the top of the stairs, left them unheeded
and came to see ; and the Marshal who stood bound broke
his bonds and came to see ; and spectral forms swept in from
the distance in the light, and the air was full of Powers and
Existences, and the earth rocked as at the Judgment Day.

He came down the steps into the Campadoglio, and He

came to me. He was not at all like the pictures of the saints ;
for He was pale, and worn, and thin, as though the fight was
not yet half over — ah no ! — but through this pale and worn
look shone infinite power, and undying love, and unquenchable
resolve. The crowd fell back on every side, but when
He came to me He stopped. 'Ah!' He said, 'is it thou?
What doest thou here? Knowest thou not that thou art
mine? Thrice mine — mine centuries ago when I hung upon
the cross on Calvary for such as thou — mine years ago, when
thou comest a little child to the font — mine once again, when,
forfeit by every law, thou wast given over to me by one who
is a servant and friend of mine. Surely, I will repay.' As
He spoke, a shudder and a trembling ran through the crowd,
as if stirred by the breath of His voice. Nature seemed to
rally and to grow beneath Him, and heaven to bend down to
touch the earth. A healing sense of help and comfort, like
the gentle dew, visited the weary heart. A great cry and
shout rose from the crowd, and He passed on ; but among ten
thousand times ten thousand I should know Him, and amid
the tumult of a universe I should hear the faintest whisper of
His voice."

The friar stopped and looked at Inglesant with his darkened
eyeballs, as though he could read his looks. Inglesant gazed
at him in silence. That the man was crazed he had no doubt ;
but that his madness should have taken this particular form
appeared to his listener scarcely less miraculous than if every
word of his wonderful story had been true.

Heard you nothing else ?" he said at last

An expression of something like trouble passed over the
other's face.

No," he said in a quieter voice ; " by this time it was
morning. The artillery of St. Angelo went off. His Holiness
sang mass, and all day long was exposed the cradle of the
Lord."

There was another pause which Inglesant scarcely knew
how to break. Then he said, —

"And have you heard nothing since of the Cavahere?"

He is in this neighbourhood," said Malvolti, " but I have
not found him. I wondered and was impatient, ignorant and
foolish as I am ; now I know the reason. The Lord waited
till you came. How could he be found except by us both ?
We must lose no time, or it will be too late. How did you
know that he was here?"

Inglesant told him.

It was the Lord's doing," said the friar, a light breaking
over his darkened face. " It was Apace. You remember, at
Florence, the leader of that extravagant frolic of the Carnival,
who was dressed as a corpse?"

"I remember," said Inglesant, "and the poor English lad
who was killed."

He is one of the Lord's servants," continued the friar,
whom He called very late. I do not know that he was
guilty of any particular sins, but he was the heir of a poor
family, and lived for many years in luxury and excess. He
was brought under the influence of Molinos's party, and shortly
after I had seen the Lord, he came to me to know whether
he should become a religious. I told him I thought there
was a time of trial and of sifting for the Lord's people at hand,
and that I thought the strongholds were the safest spots. He
joined the order de Servi. Not three weeks ago I was with
him at Frescati, at the house of the Capuchins, when I heard
that the CavaHere was here. You must have seen him three
or four days afterwards."

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE night after Inglesant had met the friar in Naples
there was " the sound of abundance of rain," and the
"plague was stayed." As constantly happened in the cities
desolated by this mysterious pestilence, no adequate reason
could be perceived for its cessation. Some change in the
state of the atmosphere took place, and the sick did not die,
at least in the same proportion as formerly. This was the
only indication that the most acute observer could detect ; but
the change was marvellously rapid. The moment that contact
with the dead bodies became less fatally infectious, help offered
on all sides, tempted by the large rewards. The dead rapidly
disappeared from sight, and the city began to resume something
of its ordinary appearance. The terrors of the grave
vanished into air, and gloomy resolutions faded from the
mind. The few survivors of the devoted men who, throughout
the heat of the conflict, had remained at their posts were,
many of them at least, forgotten and overlooked ; for their
presence was an unpleasing reminder to those whose conduct
had been of a far more prudent and selfish sort. Those who
had fled returned into the city to look after their deserted
homes, and to re-open their shops. The streets and markets
were once more gay with wares. The friar was now as eager
to leave Naples as he had before been determined to remain.
His sole object was to find the Cavaliere, and he constantly
insisted that no time was to be lost if they wished to see him

alive. They left Naples together ; the friar mounted upon a
mule which Inglesant purchased for him.

Notwithstanding the friar's eagerness, their journey was
slow, for he was not able to resist the impulse to turn aside to
help when any appearance of distress or poverty called upon
them for aid. Inglesant was not impatient at this delay, nor at
the erratic and apparently meaningless course of their singular
journey. The country was delightful after the heavy rains,
and seemed to rejoice, together with its inhabitants, at the
abatement of the plague. People who had remained shut up
in their houses in fear now appeared freely in the once deserted
roads. Doors were thrown open, and the voice of the lute
and of singing was heard again in the land. As for those who
had passed away, it was wonderful how soon their name was
forgotten, as of "a dead man out of mind;" and those who
had come into comfortable inheritance of fruit-closes, and
ove-grounds and vineyards, and of houses of pleasure in the
fields, which, but for the pestilence, had never been theirs, soon
found it possible to reconcile themselves to the absence of the
dead.

For some time after leaving Naples the road lay through a
richly cultivated land, with long straight ditches on either side.
Rows of forest trees crossed the country, and shaded the small
closes of fruit-trees and vines. Here and there a wine tavern,
or a few cottages, or a village church, stopped them. At all of
these the friar alighted from his mule, and made inquiries for
any who were ill or in distress. In this way they came across
a number of people of the peasant class, and heard the story
of their lives; and now and then a religious, or a country
signore, riding by on his mule or palfrey, stopped to speak
with them.

They had proceeded for many days through this cultivated
country, and had at last, after many turnings, reached that part
of the road which approaches the slopes of the Apennines

about Frosinone. The path wound among the hills, the slopes
covered with chestnut trees, and the crags crowned with the
remains of Gothic castles. Fields of maize filled the valleys,
and Unes of lofty poplars crossed the yellow corn. As the
road ascended, distant reaches of forest and campagna lay in
bright sunlight between the craggy rocks, and down the wooded
glens cascades fell into rapid streams spanned here and thereby
a half-ruined bridge. At last they entered a deep ravine of
volcanic tufa, much of which cropped out from the surface,
cold and bare. Between these sterile rocks laurels forced
their way, and spread out their broad and brilliant leaves.
Creeping plants hung in long and waving festoons, and pines
and forest trees of great size crowned the summits. Here
and there sepulchral excavations were cut in the rock, and
more than one sarcophagus, carved with figures in relief, stood
by the wayside.

The air in these ravines was close and hot, and sulphurous
streams emitted an unpleasant odour as they rode along.
Inglesant felt oppressed and ill. The valley of the Shadow of
Death, out of which he had come into the cool pastures and
olive-yards, had left upon the mind an exaltation of feeling
rather than terror \ and in the history of the friar, through the
course of which traces of a devised plan penetrated the confusion
of a disordered brain, the gracious prediction of
Molinos seemed to promise fulfilment. The supreme effort of
Divine mercy surely is that which shapes the faltering and
unconscious actions of man into a beneficent and everlasting
work.

But the very clearness and calm of this transcendental air
produced a wavering of the spiritual sense; and the companionship
of a blind enthusiast, who, from the lowest depth
of reckless sin, had suddenly attained a height of religious
fervour, did not tend to reduce the fever of his thoughts.
The scenes and forms of death with which he had been

familiar in Naples returned again and again before his eyes,
and his old disease again tormented him ; so that once more
he saw strange figures and shapes walking by the wayside.
These images of a disordered fancy jostled and confused his
spiritual perceptions. He felt wearied by those thoughts and
desires which had formerly been dear to him, and the ceaseless
reiteration of the friar's enthusiastic conceptions jarred
and irritated him more than he Heed to confess. The brain
of the blind man, unoccupied by the sights of this world, was
full of visions of a mystic existence, blended and confused
with such incidents and stories of earth as he had heard along
the way. With such phantasmal imaginations, he filled Inglesant's
ears.

Proceeding in this manner, they came to a place where
the ravine, opening out a little, exposed a distant view of the
Campagna, with its aqueducts and ruined tombs. At the
opening of the valley stood one of those isolated rocks so
strange to English eyes, yet so frequently seen in the paintings
of the old masters, crowned with the ruins of a Temple, and
fringed with trees of delicate foliage, poplars and pines. At
the foot of the rock an arch of ruined brickwork, covered with
waving grass and creepers, spanned the road with a wide
sweep, and on the opposite side a black sulphurous pool
exhaled a constant vapour. Masses of strange, nameless
masonry, of an antiquity dateless and undefined, bedded themselves
in the rocks, or overhung the clefts of the hills; and
out of a great tomb by the wayside, near the arch, a forest of
laurel forced its way, amid delicate and graceful frieze-work,
moss-covered and stained with age.

In this strangely desolate and ruinous spot, where the fantastic
shapes of nature seem to mourn in weird fellowship with
the shattered strength and beauty of the old Pagan art-life,
there appeared unexpectedly signs of modern dwelling. The
base of the precipitous rock for some distance above the

road, was concealed by a steep bank of earth, the crumbling
ruin and dust of man and of his work. At the top of this
bank was one of those squalid erections, so common in Italy,
where, upon a massive wall of old brickwork, embedded in
the soil, a roof of straw affords some kind of miserable shelter.
Some attempt had been made to wall in the space covered by
this roof, and a small cross, reared from the gable, and a bell
beneath a penthouse of wood, seemed to show that the shed
had been used for some ecclesiastical purpose. At the bottom
of the slope upon which this structure was placed, and on the
other side of the ruined arch and of the road, there stood,
near to the tomb, a very small hut, also thatched, and declared
to be a tavern by its wine-bush. At the door of this hut, as
Inglesant and the friar rode up, stood a man in a peasant's
dress, in an attitude of perplexity and nervous dread. A long
streak of Hght from the western sun penetrated the ruined
arch, and shone upon the winding road, and against the blaze
of light, rock and arch and hanging woods stood out dark and
lowering in the delicate air.

The dazzling light, the close atmosphere of the valley, and
the fumes of the sulphurous lake, affected Inglesant's brain so
much that he could scarcely see ; but they did not appear to
disturb the friar. He addressed the man as they came up,
and understanding more from his own instinct than from the
few words that Inglesant spoke that the man was in trouble,
he said, —

You seem in some perplexity, my son. Confide in me,
that I may help you."

As the man hesitated to reply, Inglesant said, " What is
that building on the hill ? "

It is a house for lepers," said the peasant.

Are you the master of this tavern ? " said Inglesant.

No, Santa Madre," replied the man. " The mistress of
the inn has fled. This is the case, Padre," he continued.

turning to the friar. " I was hired a week or so ago at
Arian to bring a diseased man here, who was a leper ; but I
did not know that he was a leper who was stricken with the
plague. I brought him in my cart, and a terrible journey I
had with him. When I had brought him here, and the plague
manifestly appeared upon him, all the lepers fled, and forsook
the place. The Patron, who kept this tavern upon such
custom as the peasants who brought food to sell to the lepers
brought her, also fled. I stayed a day or two to help the
wretched man — they told me that he was a gentleman — till
I could stay no longer, such was his condition, and I fled.
But, my Father, I have a tender heart, and I came back today,
thinking that the holy Virgin would never help me if I
left a wretched man to die alone — I, who only know where
and in what state he is. I spoke to one or two friars to come
and help me, but they excused themselves. I came alone.
But when I arrived here my courage failed me, and I dared
not go up. I know the state he was in two days ago ; he
must be much more terrible to look at now. Signore," concluded
the man, turning to Inglesant with an imploring gesture,
" I dare not go up."

Do you know this man's name ? " said Inglesant.

"Yes; they told me his name."

What is it ? "

II CavaUere di Guardino."

At the name of his wife's brother, Inglesant started, and
would have dismounted, but checked himself in the stirrup,
struck by the action of the friar. He had thrown his arms
above his head with a gesture of violent excitement, his sightless
eyeballs extended, his face lighted with an expression of
rapturous astonishment and delight.

Who ? " he exclaimed. " Who saddest thou ? Guardino a
leper, and stricken with the plague ! Deserted and helpless, is
he ? too terribly disfigured to be looked upon ? The lepers

flee him, mayest thou ? Holy and blessed Lord Jesus, this is
Thy work ! He is my mortal foe — the ravisher of my sister
the destroyer of my own sight ! Let me go to him ! I
will minister to him — I will tend him ! Let me go ! "

He dismounted from his mule, and, with the wonderful
instinct he seemed to possess, turned towards the rock, and
began to scramble up the hill, blindly and with difficulty, it is
true, but still with sufficient correctness to have reached the
ruin without help. There was, to Inglesant, something inexpressibly
touching and pitiful in his hurried and excited action,
and his struggling determination to accomplish the ascent.

The peasant would have overtaken him to prevent his going
up, probably mistrusting his intention. Inglesant checked
him.

Do not stop him," he said. " He is a holy man, and will
do what he says. I will go with him. Stay here with my
horse."

You do not know to what you are going, signore," said
the peasant, looking at Inglesant with a shudder ; " let him go
alone. He cannot see."

Inglesant shook his head, and, his brain still slightly dizzy
and confused, hastened after the friar, and assisted him to
climb the rocky bank. When they had reached the entrance
to the hut the friar went hastily in, Inglesant following him to
the doorway.

It was a miserable place, and nearly empty, the lepers
having carried off most of their possessions with them. On a
bed of straw on the farther side, beneath the rock, lay what
Inglesant/^// to be the man of whom he was in search. What
he saw it is impossible to describe here. The leprosy and the
plague combined had produced a spectacle of inexpressible
loathing and horror, such as nothing but absolute duty would
justify the description of The corruption of disease made it
scarcely possible to recognize even the human form. The

poisoned air of the shed was such that a man could scarcely
breathe it and live.

The wretched man was rolling on his couch, crying out at
intervals, groaning and uttering oaths and curses. Without
the slightest faltering the friar crossed the room (it is true he
could not see), and kneeling by the bedside, which he found
at once, he began, in low and hurried accents, to pour into the
ear of the dying man the consoling sound of that Name, which
alone, uttered under heaven, has power to reach the departing
soul, distracted to all beside. Startled by the sound of a voice
close to his ear, for his sight also was gone, the sick man ceased
his outcries and lay still.

Never ceasing for a moment, the friar continued, in a rapid
and ferment whisper, to pour into his ear the tenderness of
Jesus to the vilest sinner, the eternal love that will reign hereafter,
the sweetness and peace of the heavenly Use. The
wretched man lay perfectly still, probably not knowing whether
this wonderful voice was of earth or heaven ; and Inglesant,
his senses confused by the horrors of the room, knelt in prayer
in the entrance of the hut.

The fatal atmosphere of the room became more and more
dense. The voice of the friar died slowly away ; his form,
bending lower over the bed, faded out of sight; and there
passed across Inglesant's bewildered brain the vision of Another
who stood beside the dying man. The halo round His head
lighted all the hovel, so that the seamless coat He wore, and
the marks upon His hands and feet, were plainly seen, and the
pale alluring face was turned not so much upon the bed and
upon the monk as upon Inglesant himself, and the unspeakable
glance of the Divine eyes met his.

A thrill of ecstasy, terrible to the weakened system as the
sharpest pain, together with the fatal miasma of the place,
made a final rush and grasp upon his already reeling faculties.

and he lost all consciousness, and fell senseless within the
threshold of the room.

When he came to himself he had been dragged out of the
hut by the peasant, who had ventured at last to ascend the
hill. The place was silent ; the Cavaliere was dead, and the
friar lay across the body in a sort of trance. They brought
him out and laid him on the grass, thinking for some time that
he was dead also. By and by he opened his sightless eyes,
and asked where he was ; but he still moved as in a trance.
He seemed to have forgotten what had happened ; and, with
the death of the Cavaliere, the great motive which had influenced
him, and which, while it lasted, seemed to have kept
his reason from utterly losing its balance, appeared to be taken
away. He had lived only to meet and bless his enemy, and
this having been accomplished, all reason for living was gone.

Inglesant and the peasant dug a grave with some implements
they found in the tavern, and hastily buried the body,
the friar pronouncing a benediction. The latter performed
this office mechanically, and seemed almost unconscious as to
what was passing. His very figure and shape appeared changed,
and presented but the shadow of his former self; his speech
was broken and unintelligible. Inglesant gave the peasant
money, which seemed to him to be wealth, and they mounted
and rode silently away.

At Venafro, where they found a monastery of the Capuchins,
they stayed some days, Inglesant expecting that his companion
would recover something of his former state of health.
But it soon became apparent that this would not be the case ;
the friar sank rapidly into a condition of mental unconsciousness,
and the physicians told Inglesant that, although he might
linger for weeks, they believed that a disease of the brain was
hastening him towards the grave. Inglesant was impatient to
return to the Castello ; and, leaving the friar to the care of the
brothers of his own order, he resumed his journey.



Was it a strange coincidence, or the omniscient rule and
will of God, that, at the moment Inglesant lay insensible before
the hut, the plague had done its work in the home that he
had left? The old Count died first, then some half of the
servants, finally, in the deserted house, a little child lay dead
upon its couch, and beside it, on the marble floor, lay Lauretta
dead — uncared for.

It was the opinion of Martin Luther that visions of the
Saviour, which he himself had seen, were delusions of Satan
for the bewildering of the Papists j and there is a story of a
monk who left the Beatific Vision that he might take his service
in the choir.

Malvolti died at Venafro a short time after Inglesant had
left him.

CHAPTER XVII.

AFTER the narration of the events just detailed the
papers from which the Hfe of Mr. Inglesant has hitherto
been compiled become much less minute and personal in
character; and when the narrative is resumed, a considerable
period of time has evidently elapsed. It is stated that sometime
after the death of his wife Mr. Inglesant returned to
Rome, and assumed a novice's gown in some religious order,
but to which of the religious bodies he attached himself is
doubtful It might be thought that he would naturally become
a member of the Society of Jesus ; but there is reason to
conclude that the rule which he intended to embrace was
either that of the Benedictines or the Carmelite. As will soon
appear, he proceeded no farther than the noviciate, and this
uncertainty therefore is of little consequence.

It must be supposed that the distress caused by the death
of his wife and child, and by his absence from them at the
last, was one motive which caused Inglesant to seek in Rome
spiritual comfort and companionship from the Spanish priest
Moins, in whose society he had before found so much
support and relief It was thought, indeed, by many beside
Inglesant, amid the excitement which the spread of the method
of devotion taught by this man had caused, that a dawn of
purer light was breaking over spiritual Rome. God seemed
to have revealed Himself to thousands in such a fashion as to
make their past lives and worship seem profitless and unfruitful
before the brightness and peace that was revealed; and



the lords of His heritage seemed for a time to be willing that
this light should shine. It appeared for a moment as if
Christendom were about to throw off its shackles, its infant
swaddling clothes, in which it had been so long wrapped, and,
acknowledging that the childhood of the Church was past,
stand forth before God with her children around her, no
longer distrusted and enslaved, but each individually complete,
fellow-citizens with their mother of the household of God.
The unsatisfactory rotation of formal penitence and sinful
lapse, of wearisome devotion and stale pleasures, had given
place to an enthusiasm which believed that, instead of ceremonies
and bowing in outer courts, the soul was introduced
into heavenly places, and saw God face to face. A wonderful
experience, in exchange for lifeless formality and rule, of communion
with the Lord, with nothing before the believer, as he
knelt at the altar, save the Lord Himself, day by day, unshackled
by penance and confession as heretofore. Thousands
of the best natures in Rome attached themselves to this
method ; it was approved by a Jesuit Father, the Pope was
known to countenance it, and his nephews were among its
followers. The bishops were mostly in favour of it, and in
the nunneries of Rome the directors and confessors were
preaching it ; and the nuns, instead of passing their time over
their beads and " Hours," were much alone, engaged in the
exercise of mental prayer.

It would indeed be difficult to estimate the change that
would have passed over Europe if this one rule of necessary
confession before every communion had been relaxed ; and in
the hope that some increased freedom of religious thought
would be secured, many adopted the new method who had no
great attachment to the doctrine, nor to the undoubted extravagances
which the Quietists, in common with other mystics,
were occasionally guilty of, both in word and deed. It cannot
be denied, and it is the plea that will be urged in defence of

the action of the Jesuits, that freedom of thought as well as of
devotion was the motive of numbers who followed the teaching
of Molinos. That free speculation and individual growth
could be combined with loyalty to acts and ceremonies,
hallowed by centuries of recollection and of past devotion, was
a prospect sufficiently attractive to many select natures. Some,
no doubt, entered into this cause from less exalted motives —
a love of fame and a desire to form a party, and to be at the
head of a number of followers ; but even among those whose
intentions were not so lofty and spiritual as those of Molinos
probably were, by far the greater number were actuated by a
desire to promote freedom of thought and of worship among
Churchmen.

But it was only for a moment that this bright prospect
opened to the Church.

The Jesuits and Benedictines began to be alarmed.
MoHnos had endeavoured to allay the suspicion attached to
his teaching, and diminish the aversion that the Jesuits felt
towards him, by calling his book " The Spiritual Guide," and
by constantly enjoining the necessity of being in all things
under the direction of a religious person; but this was felt
to point more at the submission to general council than to
coming always to the priest, as to the minister of the sacrament
of penance, before every communion; especially as
Molinos taught that the only necessary qualification for receiving
was the being free from mortal sin.

Suddenly, when the reputation of this new society appeared
to be at its height, Molinos was arrested, and Father Sparta,
the Jesuit whose approbation had appeared before "The
Spiritual Guide," disappeared. What became of the latter
was not known, but it was generally supposed that he was
shut up between four walls ; " and at any rate he appeared no
more in Rome. In the midst of the excitement consequent
on these events seventy more persons, all of the highest rank,

Count Vespasian and his lady, the Confessor of Prince
Borghese, Father Appian of the Jesuits, and others equally
well-known, — were arrested in one day, and before the month
was over more than two hundred persons crowded the prisons
of the Inquisition.

The consternation was excessive, when a method of devotion
which had been extolled throughout Italy for the
highest sanctity to which mortals could aspire was suddenly
found to be heretical, and the chief promoters of it hurried
from their homes and from their friends, shut up in prison,
and in peril of perpetual confinement, if not death. The arrest
of Father Appian was the most surprising. He was accounted
the most learned, priest in the Roman College, and was
arrested on a Sunday in April as he came from preaching.
After this no one could guess on whom the blow would fall
next The Pope himself, it was reported, had been examined
by the Jesuits. The imminence of the peril brought strength
with it. The prisoners, it was whispered, were steady and
resolute, and showed more learning than their examiners.
Their friends who were still at large, recovering from their first
panic, assumed a bold front. Many letters were written to
the Inquisitors, advising them to consider well what they did
to their prisoners, and assuring them that their interests would
be maintained even at the cost of life. Nor did these protests
end here. As soon as possible after the arrests a meeting was
held at Don Agostino's palace in the Piazza Colonia, to which
ladies were summoned as well as men. There, in a magnificent
saloon, amid gilding and painting and tapestry, whose
splendour was subdued by softened colour and shaded light,
were met the elite of Rome. There were ladies in rich attire,
yet in whose countenances was seen that refinement of beauty
which only religion and a holy life can give — ladies, who,
while appearing in public in the rank which belonged to them,
were capable in private of every self-denial, trained in the

practice of devotion and acts of mercy. There were nuns of
the Conception and of the Palestrina, distressed and mortified
at being compelled to return to their beads and to their other
abandoned forms. There were present Cereri, Cardinal-bishop
of Como ; Cardinals Campagna and Cigolini, and
Cardinal Howard of England (the noblest and most spiritus
of the Sacred College), Absolving and Colored,
Cardinals and Fathers of the Oratory, and Cardinal D'Estrees.
Petrucci himself, the most prominent advocate of the Quietist
doctrine, was in the room, though incognito, it not being
generally known that he was in Rome. There were present
many Fathers of the Oratory, men of intellect, refinement, and
blameless lives ; Don Livid, Duke di Ceri, the Pope's nephew
was there, and the Prince Savelli, many of the highest nobility,
and above a hundred gentlemen, all of whom, by their presence,
might be supposed to prove their attachment to the
teaching of Molinos, their superiority to the sordid motives of
worldly prudence and pleasure, and their devotion to spiritual
instincts and desires. It would be difficult to imagine scenes
more unlike each other; yet, strange as it may appear, it was
nevertheless true that this brilliant company, attired in the
height of the existing mode, sparkling with jewels and enriched
with chastened colour, might not unfitly be considered
the successor of those hidden meetings of a few slaves in
Nero's household, who first, in that wonderful city, believed in
the crucified Nazarene.

The addresses were commenced by the Duke di Ceri, who
spoke of the grief caused by the arrest of their friends, and of
the exertions that had been made on their behalf. He was
followed by other of the great nobles and cardinals, who all
spoke in the same strain. All these speeches were delivered
in somewhat vague and guarded terms, and as one after
another of the speakers sat down, a sense of incompleteness
and dissatisfaction seemed to steal over the assembly, as

though it were disappointed of something it most longed to
hear. The meeting was assured, over and over again, that
extreme measures would not be taken against those in prison;
that their high rank and powerful connections would save
them ; the Duke di Ceri had expressly said that he believed
his relation and servant, Count Vespasian, and his lady would
soon be released. The fact was, though the Duke did not
choose, to state it publicly, that they had been proscribed
solely from information gained at the confessional; and this
having been much talked of, the Jesuits had resolved, rather
than bring any further odium on the sacrament of confession,
to discharge both the lady and her husband at once. But,
though all this might be true, there was something that remained
unsaid — something that was filling all hearts.

What was to be the spiritual future of those assembled ?
Was this gate of Paradise and the Divine Life to be for ever
closed, and was earth and all its littleness once more to be
pressed upon them without denial, and hypocrisy and the
petty details of a formal service once more to be the only
spiritual food of their souls ? Must they, if they resolved to
escape this spiritual death, quit this land and this glorious
Church, and seek, in cold and distant lands, and alien
Churches, the freedom denied by the tyranny of the leaders
of their own ? These thoughts filled all minds, and yet none
had given them utterance, nor was it surprising that it should
be so. Select and splendid as that assembly was, no one
knew for certain that his neighbour was not a spy. As was
known soon after, Cardinal D'Estre'es, who sat there so calm
and lofty-looking, furnished the principal evidence against
Molinos, swearing that, being his intimate friend, he knew
that the real meaning of his friend's printed words was that
heretical one of which, in fact, Molinos had never dreamt.
It was no wonder that the speeches were cautious and vague.
At last Don Agostino rose, and in a quiet and unaffected

VOL. II. s

tone, requested a hearing for his very dear friend, the Cavaliere
di San Georgio, one well known to most of them, whose
character was known to all.

A murmur of satisfaction ran through the room, and the
audience settled itself down to listen, as though they knew
that the real business of the day was about to begin. Inglesant
rose in his seat immediately behind his host. He was
evidently dressed carefully, with a view to the effect to be
produced upon a fastidious and ultra-refined assembly. He
wore a cassock of silk, and the gown of a Benedictine made of
the finest cloth. His head was tonsured, and his hair cut
short. He had round his neck a band of fine cambric, and
at his wrists ruffles of rich lace ; and he wore on his hand a
diamond of great value. He had, indeed, to one who saw
his dress and not his face, entirely the look of a petit-maitre,
and even — what is more contemptible still — of a petit-maitre
priest ; yet, as he rose in his seat, there was not a man in all
that assembly who would have given a silver scudo for the
chances of his life.

His romantic and melancholy story, the death of his wife
and child, his assumption of the religious life, and, above all,
his friendship with Molinos, were known to all ; it seemed to
many a fitting close to a fife of such vicissitude, that at this
crisis he should sacrifice himself in the spiritual cause that
was dear to all.

He had his speech written before him, every word carefully
considered and arranged by himself and some of the
first masters of style then in Rome. He began deliberately
and distinctly, so that every word was heard, though he spoke
in a low voice.

After deprecating the judgment of the assembly upon the
artless and unpolished words he was about to address to it,
and excusing his rashness in consenting to speak in such an
assembly at all, he said, —

The words of the noble and august personages who have
already spoken have left me little to say. Nothing is necessary
to be added to their wise and reverend advice. All that
remains for us to do is to attempt to carry out in action what
they have so well counselled. Our first object, our first duty,
is the safety of our friends. But, when this is happily accomplished
— as, under such leaders and protected by such names,
how can we doubt that it will be ? — there are many among us
who, with sinking hearts and hushed voices, are inquiring,
What will come next ? ' "

He paused, and looked up for a moment, and a murmur
of encouragement ran through the room.

I am not mistaken when I say that in this room, and
also in Rome, are many hearts which, within the last few years,
and by the teaching of him for whom night and day the
prayers of the Church ascend to heaven, have found a peace
and a blessedness before unknown ; many who have breathed
celestial air, and walked the streets of God. Nor am I mistaken
— my heart and your presence tell me I am not mistaken
when I say that many are asking themselves, ' How can
they renounce this heavenly birthright ? How can they live
without this Divine intercourse, which they have found so
sweet — which the purest saints have hallowed with their
approval? How can they live without God who have seen
Him face to face ? ' And many are asking themselves, ' Must
we leave the walks of men, and the Churches where the saints
repose, and wander into the wilderness — into byways among
the wild places of heresy, since the Church seems to close
the gates upon this way which is their life?' I risk the
deserved censure of this august assembly when I venture to
advise — yet even this I am willing to do, if I may serve any —
and I venture to advise, No. I myself was born in another
country, amid contending forms of faith. I believe that, in the
sacrificial worship of our most Holy Church, room is amply

given for the perfection of the Contemplative State \ and that
such lofty devotion can find no fitter scene than the altar of
the Lord. As we may hope that, at some future time, the
whole Church may come to this holy state, and be raised
above many things which, though now perhaps necessary, may
in a higher condition fall away ; so, if by our continuing in this
posture we may hasten such a happy time, this doubtless will
be the path Heaven wishes us to walk in. But " — he paused,
and the whole assembly listened with breathless attention —
if such is to be our course, it is evident that an understanding
is necessary of adjustment between ourselves and the
Fathers of the Holy Office and of the Society of Jesus — an
adjustment by which a silence must be allowed our Faith — a
silence which, for the sake of those amongst us whose consciences
are the most refined and heaven-taught, must be
understood to imply dissent to much that has lately been
acted and taught. We must understand that this exertion of
authority is aimed only at the opeti teaching of doctrines in
which we still believe, and which are still dear to us ; and that
liberty is allowed our faith so long as we observe a discreet
silence — a liberty which shall extend as far as to admission to
the Sacrament without previous confession. On this point
surely it is necessary that we have a clearer understanding."

Inglesant stopped, and applause, sufficiently loud and
unmistakably sincere, showed that a large proportion of the
assembly approved of what had been said.

He spoke a word to Don Agostino, and then went on, —
I am willing to confess, and this august assembly will be
willing to confess, that to the rulers of Christ's ark — those who
have to answer for the guidance of the peoples of the world,
and who know far better than we can the difficulties and dangers
which environ such a task — this allowance to the lower
masses of the people, so prone to run to extremes and to err
in excess, would seem unwise ; and I am not unwilling also to

admit that we may have erred in making this way too public,
before the world was sufficiently prepared for it. Both for
this, and for any other fault, we are willing to suffer penance,
and to submit to the Holy Church in silence; but, this acknowledged
and performed, we must be allowed, within certain
limits, to retain the freedom we have enjoyed, and some
manifest token must be given us that such will be the case."

A singular murmur again filled the room — a murmur compounded
of intense sympathy and of admiration at the boldness
of the speaker.

Inglesant went on.

But you will ask me, how is this to be obtained ? I am
allowed to say that I have not undertaken the mission save at
the request of others whom it well becomes to direct my service
in all things. They consider that for some reason I am
fitted for the task. I am — and I speak with all gratitude — a
pupil of the reverend and holy Society of Jesus, and whatever
I possess I owe to its nursing care. I am besides, though I
have never acted in such capacity, still an accredited agent of
the Queen Mother of England, that most faithful daughter —
I had almost said Martyr — of the Church. I will see the
General of the Order, and if this assembly will allow me to
speak in its name, I will offer to him our dutiful submission if
he, on his part, will give us some public sign that we are
allowed our private interpretation upon the late events, and
our liberty upon the point which I have named."

When Inglesant sat down Cardinal Howard spoke. He
was followed by several others, all of whom complimented the
Cavaliere upon his devotion to so good a cause ; but abstained
from expressing any decided opinion on the expediency of his
proposal. But when two or three speeches had been made,
the mixed character of the assembly began to show itself It
is true that it had been carefully selected, yet, in order to give
it importance and influence, it had been necessary to include

in the invitations as many as possible, and the result was soon
apparent. There were many present who had joined the ranks
of the Quietists more from a weariness of the existing order
than from sincere devotion. There were many present who
had joined them sincerely, but who, from timidity and caution,
were desirous to escape the anger of the Inquisition by submission
and silence, and who deprecated any risk of exciting
a still more harsh exertion of authority. Both these parties,
increased by waverers from the more devoted portion of the
company, united in advising that no action should be taken,
farther than that which had been already used, and which, it
might be hoped, had secured the principal object of their
wishes, the release of their friends.

They argued that confession before each communion could
not be burdensome to those who were in a state of grace, and
therefore had nothing to confess ; and even if it were, as the
Fathers of the Church judged it necessary for the suppression
of error, and for the good of the ignorant and unenlightened,
it ought to be submitted to most willingly by those farthest
advanced in the spiritual life. These speakers also argued
that many things which were held by the Quietists harmlessly
to themselves were liable to be misunderstood, and that anything
which tended to draw off the mind from the mystery of
the Sacrifice of the Mass, or from the examples of the saints,
tended to divert the vulgar from devotion to the Saviour, and
savoured of Deism.

They argued that although perhaps many things were
unnecessary to those whose religious life was far advanced,
such as the breviary, beads, images, many prayers, etc., yet it
was not so to others, and that no doubt, where it was suitable,
relaxation would be easily obtained from one's director. No
one had insisted more upon the necessity of a spiritual guide
than had Moins, and it was now the time to prove the reality
of our obedience to the voice of the Church.

It was argued that many things in Molinos's writings seemed
to tend towards Calvinism, and the doctrine of Efficacious
Grace, which no one present — no true child of the Church —
could defend, — a doctrine which Limited the Grace of God,
and turned the free and wide pastures of Catholicism into the
narrow bounds of a restricted sect ; and it was finally hinted
that there was some reason to believe that the promoters of
the meeting were acting with a farther intention than at first
appeared, and that they desired to introduce changes into the
Catholic faith and discipline, under cover of this discussion.

This last insinuation was a home thrust, and was so felt by
the meeting. The subject of Efficacious Grace had also been
introduced very skilfully by a young priest, a pupil of the
Jesuits himself.

After a brief consultation with his party Inglesant replied
that a great deal of what had been advanced was unanswerable ;
that he himself, a pupil of the Jesuits, was as much opposed to
the doctrine of Efficacious Grace as any one could be ; that
it was the intention of no one present to urge any course of
action unless the meeting unanimously approved of it ; and that,
as it appeared that the majority of those present were prepared
to submit to the Holy Office, and did not desire any negotiation,
nothing farther would be attempted.

There weighed, in truth, upon the hearts of all, and had
probably oppressed Inglesant as he spoke, a sense of hopelessness
and of contention with an irresistible power. In spite
of this feeling, however, the decision of the chiefs drew forth
expressions of impatience and regret from the more enthusiastic
partisans ; but as these were mostly women, who could
not address the assembly, or such as were not prepared to
make themselves prominent in face of almost certain arrest,
the discussion became desultory and ineffectual, and the meeting
finally broke up without any decision having been arrived at.

The Piazza was full of carriages and servants, and the

Duke di Ceri had an enormous train of equipages following
his carriage to escort him beyond the gate, on the way to his
villa near Civitas Vecchia, whither he returned immediately,
not choosing to stay in Rome.

The meeting being over, Don Agostino urged Inglesant to
leave Rome ; indeed, the Duke had already pressed him to
accompany him to Civitas Vecchia, but Inglesant declined.

The motives which influenced him were of a mixed nature.
He was prompted by the most sincere desire to find out a
way, both for himself and for others, in which the highest
spiritual walk, and the purest condition of spiritual worship,
might be possible within the Church of Rome. There was probably
nothing in this world which he desired more than this,
for in this was included that still more important freedom, the
liberty of the reason ; for if it were possible for the spirit to
be free, while fulfilling the outward observances, and participating
in the outward ordinances of the Church, so also it
must be possible for the reason to be free too.

It had been this very desire, singular as it may seem,
which had attached him to the Society of the Jesuits. Not
only were their tenets — notably that of sufficient grace given
to all men — of wider and more catholic nature than the
Augustinian doctrines held by most bodies both of Churchmen
and Protestants, but the Society had always, in all its
dealings with men, shown a notable leaning to tolerance, even,
so its enemies asserted, of sin and vice.

But besides these motives which had something of a refined
and noble character, Inglesant had others. A life of
intrigue and policy had, from training and severe practice,
become a passion and necessity of his life. To leave the
field where such a fight was going on, to remain in Rome,
even, an inactive spectator, allowed to pursue his own path
merely from the ignoble fact that he was not worth arrest, —
both these courses of action were intolerable to him. He had

promised Tvlolinos that he would not be wanting in the hour
of trial, and he would keep his word. He was utterly powerless,
as the events of the last few moments would have shown
him had he not known it before. The most powerful, the
noblest confederacy fell away impotently before an invisible yet
well-understood power, and a sense of vague irresistible force
oppressed him, and showed him the uselessness of resistance.

Nevertheless he requested the loan of Don Agostino's
carriage that he might go at once to the General of the
Society. He was shown at once into a small cabinet, where
he was kept waiting a few moments, the General in fact being
engaged at that moment in Hastening to a detailed account
of the meeting, and of the speeches delivered at it He however
entered the room in a few minutes, and the two men
saluted each other with the appearance of cordial friendship.
Inglesant had not changed his dress, and the General ran his
eyes over it with somewhat of an amused expression, doubtless
comparing the account he had just received with the appearance
of his visitor, the purpose of which he was fully alive to.

Inglesant began the conversation,

Your reverence is probably acquainted already with the
meeting in the Piazza Colonia, and with its objects and results.
I, however, have come to relate what passed as far as you maybe
disposed to listen, and to give any information, in a perfectly
open and sincere manner, which you may wish to receive.
In return for this I wish to ask your reverence two or three
questions which I hope will not be unpleasant, and which you
will of course answer or not as it pleases you."

As I understand the meeting, Signore Cavaliere," said
the General with a slight smile, " it rejected your mediation, in
spite of the elaborate care with which the proposal was brought
before it, a care extending to the minutest particulars, and the
chastened eloquence and perfect style in which it was offered."

This sarcasm fell comparatively harmlessly upon Inglesant,

preoccupied as his thoughts were. He therefore bowed,
saying,—

The meeting rejected my mediation, or rather it thought
that no mediation was necessary, and trusted itself implicitly
to the fatherly care of the Society of Jesus."

"What does the meeting representing this new heresy
demand?"

It demands nothing but the deliverance of its friends
now in prison."

And nothing else ?"

Nothing else from the meeting. I am here to demand
something else."

On your own behalf alone ?"

"On my own responsibility solely; but if my request is
granted, many will be benefited by my work."

"Have you no abettors? You came here in Don Agostino's
coach."

I am Don Agostino's dear and intimate friend, and it is
not much that he should lend me his coach. I have many
friends in Rome."

I know it," said the Jesuit cordially, " and among them
the Order of Jesus is not the least sincere."

Inglesant bowed, and there was a slight pause. Then the
General said, —

"What do you demand?"

I demand spiritual freedom — the freedom of silence."

Freedom will be abused."

Not by me nor by my friends. We pledge ourselves to
unbroken silence. All we demand is freedom to worship Godin
private as He Himself shall lead us. We ask for no change
in public doctrine. We seek no proselytes. In fact, we confine
ourselves to one desire, the sacrament without confession."

The Jesuit made no reply, but continued to look fixedly
into Inglesant's face.

It seems to me, Father," Inglesant went on, with a touch
of bitterness in his tone, " that the Society is changing its
policy, or rather that it has a different policy for different
classes of men. So far as I have known it, it has pursued a
course of compromise with all men, and especially with the
weak and frail. It has always appeared to me a trait much
to be admired, that in which it is likest to the divine charity
itself; but the world has been very severe upon it. And when
the world says, ' You have pandered to vice in every form ;
you have rendered the confessional easy of approach, and the
path of penitence smooth to the impenitent ; you have been
lenient, nay more than lenient, to the loose liver, to the
adulterers and enslaves, — surely you might be mild to the
devout ; surely you might extend a little of this infinite pity to
the submissive and obedient, to the pure in life and soul who
seek after God ; ' Difficile est satire non scribere. Nam quis
unique tam patient urbis, tam ferrets, ut tenet se.' If the
world says this, what am I to answer? ' For, if it be so necessary
to confine the soul to narrow dogmas lest she go astray, it
must be also necessary to deal freely and sharply with these sins
of the flesh, lest they bring men to sensuality and to hell. By
thus acting, as it seems to me, and not by making the righteous
sad, you would follow the teaching of those beautiful words of
one of your Fathers, who says, ' that the main design of our
Society is to endeavour the establishment of virtue, to carry
on the war against vice, and to cultivate an infinite number of
souls'"

"You are a bold man, Signore Cavaliere. For far less
words than you have spoken men have grown old in the dungeons
of Saint Angelo, where the light of day never comes."

Inglesant, who rather wished to be imprisoned, and
flattered himself that he should soon be released, was not
alarmed at this menace, and remained silent.

A pause ensued, during which something like this ran
through the Jesuit's mind : —

Shall I have this man arrested at once, or wait ? He
came to us well recommended — the favourite pupil of an
important member of the Society, who assured us that he was
an instrument perfectly trained, ready at all points for use,
and of a temper and spirit far above the average, not to be lost
to the Order on any account. He has proved all that was
said of him, and much more. The Papal throne itself is
under obligation to him. But do we want such a man so
much ? I have scores of agents, of instruments ready to my
hand, with whom I need use no caution— no finesse; why
waste any on 07ie, however highly finished and trained ? But,
on the other hand, I speak this in Rome, where everything is
our own, and where the sense of power may have unfitted me
from properly understanding this man's value. In the rough
regions in partibus such a tool as this, fine and true as steel,
tried in the fire as steel, doubtless is not lightly to be thrown
away ; at all events, nothing is to be done hastily. So long ashe
is in Rome he is safe, and may be clapped up at any
moment. I almost wish he would leave, and go back to his
teacher."

All this occupied but a few seconds, and, as the Jesuit
made no answer, Inglesant, who scarcely expected any definite
reply, took his leave. To his surprise, however, the General
insisted on accompanying him to his coach. They crossed
the courtyard to where the equipage of Don Agostino stood in
the street. In the excited imagination of Rome at that
moment, the sight of Don Agostino's carriage before the
Jesuits' College had attracted a crowd. When Inglesant
appeared, accompanied by the General, the excitement became
intense. As they reached the carriage door, Inglesant knelt
upon the pavement, and requested the Jesuit's blessing ; the
foremost of the crowd, impressed by this action, knelt too.
Inglesant rose, entered the carriage, and was driven off; and
two different rumours spread through Rome — one, that the

Society had come to terms with the Quietists through the
mediation of the CavaUere ; the other, that the CavaUeree di
San Georgio had betrayed the Quietists, and made his peace
with the Order; and this last resort received the greatest
amount of credit.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE Inquisitors and the Jesuits continued to adopt a
policy of great leniency to those who were in prison.
The majority, after one examination, were released, merely
going through the form of abjuring heresies and errors of
which they had never dreamed. Owing to this politic course
of action, assisted by the dislike and contempt which the
people felt towards the then Pope, who was supposed to be a
favourer of Molinos, and of whose dull reign the Romans
were weary, a great change took place in the opinions of the
populace. The credit of the Jesuits rose exceedingly, and
they became celebrated for their excessive mildness, who
before had been blamed for their rigour. To such an extent
did they gain in popular estimation, that the chiefs of the defeated
party were unable to keep back great numbers of the
followers of MoHnos from coming in to the Inquisitors everyday,
to accuse themselves of heresy, and to offer themselves to
penance. These being very gently treated, and dismissed in
peace, testified everywhere to the clemency of the Holy Office
and of the Jesuits. The excitement, which before had set in
one direction, was now turned with equal impetuosity in
another ; and many who had before, doubtless in perfect sincerity,
found — or fancied they found — spiritual satisfaction in
the "method of contemplation," now discovered an equal
benefit in an excessive orthodoxy. The Quietist party was
utterly crushed, and put to ignominious silence ; and Molinos
himself became an object of hatred and contempt ; while, all

the time, with extraordinary inconsistency, it was publicly
reported that the reason of this surprising clemency was the
great support which his doctrine received from the mystical
Divinity, which had been authorized by so many canonizations,
and approved by so many Councils and Fathers of the Church.
The leaders of the defeated party lived as in a desert.
Their saloons, which only a few days before had been crowded,
were now empty, and Cardinal Petrucci himself was visited by
no one ; while the Jesuits were everywhere received with
enthusiasm, so true to the character that the Satirist gave a
thousand years before did the Roman populace remain —
Sequitur fortuna, ut semper, et edit
Damnation."

Some slight portion of this popular applause fell to Inglesant's
lot, whichever report was believed — whether, as the
agent of the Society he had betrayed his friends, or had used
his influence to procure this unexpected policy of mercy —
either supposition procured him notoriety and even approbation.
It now only remained to watch the fate of Moins,
and the inmates of Don Agostino's palace waited in silence
the policy of their triumphant opponents. The Jesuits began
by circulating reports of his hypocrisy and lewd course of life —
facts of which they said they had convincing evidence. They
said that these scandals had been proved before the Pope,
who then, and not till then, had renounced his cause. The
Romans replied to this story that they believed it, for the
Pope was a good judge of such matters, but none at all of the
questions of theology on which the quarrel had previously
turned. There was not at the time, and there never has
been since, the slightest evidence offered publicly that these
stories had the least foundation ; but they amply served their
turn, insomuch that when Molinos was brought out to the
Minerva on the day of his condemnation, he was saluted by
the people with cries of " Fire ! Fire ! " and, but that his

coach was resolutely defended by the Sbirri and guards, he
would have been massacred by the furious mob.

When the morning rose upon the day on which his condemnation
was to take place, the tribunal of the Minerva, and
all the avenues and corridors leading to it, were thronged with
an excited crowd. For days before, all the efforts both of
money and favour had been exerted to procure good places
in the court itself, and those who were unable to gain these
coveted seats lined the corridors and staircases, while the
populace outside thronged the streets leading from the prison
of the Inquisition. The windows and house tops were
crowded ; scarcely an inhabitant of Rome but was to be found
somewhere on the line of route ; the rest of the city was a
desert.

The vine-clad wastes of the Aventine, the green expanse
of the Campo Vaccine, and the leafy walls of the Colosseum
and of the arches, were lying under the morning sunlight, calm
and quiet as in the midst of a happy and peaceful world. As
Inglesant came across from the lonely convent where he still
occasionally lodged, and turned out of the square of the Ara
Coeli, the silent tenantless houses and palaces looked down
with dim eyes like a city of the dead ; and as he came into the
Via del Gesu the distant hum and murmur of the crowd first
broke upon his ear. Here and there a belated spectator like
himself turned out of some bye-street or doorway, and hastened
towards the Piazza della Minerva.

Inglesant turned off by a side street, and, following the
narrow winding lanes with which he was well acquainted, came
out into the Via di Coronary at some midway distance between
the prison of the Inquisition and the Minerva. He was justin
time. As he stationed himself against the wall of the
Church of St. Maria de Anima and the German Hospital, he
knew, by the excitement and frantic cries of the crowd, that
MoHnos was not far off. He was brought along the street ina

large coach with glass windows, a Dominican friar seated at
his side. On each side of the carriage and at the horses'
heads the Sbirri and Swiss guards exerted themselves manfully
to keep back the people and to clear the way. A deafening
shout and cry rose unceasingly, and every few moments the
crowd, pressing upon the carriage and the guards, caused them
to come to a dead stop. Changing to the horses' heads, to
the carriage itself, to the halberds of the Swiss, climbing on
the steps and on the back of the coach, had the crowd desired
a rescue, Inglesant thought one bold and decided leader
might have accomplished it in a few desperate moments. But
the mob desired nothing less. This man — who but a few
weeks ago had been followed by admiring crowds, who had
been idolized in courtly saloons, whose steps and walks had
been watched with the tender and holy devotion with which a
people watches the man whose Hfe it takes to be hid in God ;
whom loving modest women had pointed out to their children
as the holy monk whom they must love and remember all
their lives ; whom passionate women, on whose souls the light
of God had broken, had followed trembling, that they might
throw themselves at his feet, and clinging to his gown, hear
the words of gospel from his lips; to whom desperate men
had listened whom no other voice had ever moved ; — this man
was now the execration of the mob of Rome. Amidst the
roar and din around no word was distinguishable but that
terrible one of " Fire ! " that pointed to a heretic's death at
the stake; and, but for the determined resistance of the
guards, Molinos would have been dragged from the coach and
butchered in the streets.

When the carriage arrived opposite the spot upon which
Inglesant had posted himself, he could see Molinos's face ashe
sat in the coach. He was carefully dressed in his priestly
habit, and looked about him with a cheerful serene countenance.
" He looks well," said a man, not far from Inglesant,

VOL. II. T

who had been very bitter against the prisoner ; " the secret of
his success is not far to seek, for his face possesses all the
charms that are able to captivate, especially the fair sex."

When the coach was close to Inglesant the crowd made
another and most determined attack, and the horses came to
a stand. The cries of " Fire ! Fire !" rose louder and more
fiercely, and the guards were for a moment beaten from one
of the doors. It seemed that nothing could prevent the
people from dragging their victim into the street ; Inglesant
felt his blood turn cold, fully expecting to see the massacre
performed before his eyes ; but before the people could open
the door, which seemed fastened on the inside, the guard
ralHed, and by the free use of their halberds and short swords
recovered the coach, and drove back the mob.

Through all this scene Molinos had preserved his perfectly
unconcerned expression, and his eyes, wandering calmly over
the people, at last rested upon the spot where Inglesant stood.
Whether he recognized him or not Inglesant did not know,
for he involuntarily drew back and shrank from his eye. He
learnt afterwards that Molinos did recognize him, and also
noticed his recoil. " He fears I should compromise him with
the furious crowd," he thought ; "he need not fear."

Inglesant's movement was caused, however, by a thought
very different from this one, which indeed never occurred to
him. He was ashamed to meet Molinos's eye. In the daylight
and sunshine they had walked together, but when the
trial came, the one was taken, and all the rest escaped. It
was impossible but that some at least of the fortunate many
should feel some pangs of uneasiness and doubt. Inglesant
especially, the agent and confidant of the Jesuits, was open
to such thoughts, and before the single-hearted uncompromising
priest and confessor could not but feel in some sort
condemned. The carriage passed on amid the unabated fury
of the people, and, turning aside down a narrow winding lane,

he entered the Dominicans' Church, to the reserved part of
which he had a ticket of admission, to be ready for the final
scene.

MoHnos was taken to one of the corridors of the Minerva,
where he stood for some time looking about him very calmly,
and returning all the salutes which were made him by those
who had formerly been of his acquaintance. To all inquiries
he returned but one answer ; that they saw a man who was
defamed, but who was penitent (infamato ma penitent).
After he had stood here some time he was conducted into a
small apartment, where a sumptuous repast was spread before
him, and he was invited to partake as of his last luxurious
indulgence before being shut up in a little cell for life. A
strange banquet ! and a strange taste such delicacies must
have to a man at such a time.

After dinner he was carried into the Church, as in a
triumph, in an open chair upon the shoulders of the Sbirri.
The tapers upon the altar shrines showed more clearly than
did the dim and sober daylight that penetrated beneath the
darkened roofs the three mystic aisles of the strange Church,
which were filled with a brilliant company of cardinals, nobles,
innumerable ladies, gentlemen of every rank, ecclesiastics
without end. The dark marble walls, the sumptuous crowd,
the rich colours of the stained glass, gave a kind of lurid
splendour to the scene; while on every side the sculptured
forms upon the monuments, with stolid changeless features,
stood out pale amidst the surrounding gloom ; and here and
there, where free space was kept, the polished marble floor
reflected the sombre brilliancy of the whole.

As Molinos was brought up to his place he made a low
and devout reverence to the Cardinals, and his manner was
perfectly possessed and without a show of fear or shame. He
was made to stand up before the altar, a chain was bound
round him and fastened to his wrists, and a wax taper was

placed in his hands. Then with a loud voice a friar read his
Process, so as to be heard by all in the Church ; and as some
of the articles were read, there were loud cries from the
reverend and polite assembly of " Fire ! Fire !"

In a few moments the sight was over, and Molinos was led
back to the street, to be placed this time in a close carriage,
and taken back to the prison, where his cell was prepared.
As Inglesant stepped back into the aisle of the Church he felt
some one pull him by'his Benedictine gown, and turning round,
he saw a lady in a velvet masque. She appeared excited, and,
as far as he could see, was weeping, and her voice, which he
thought he recognized, was broken and indistinct.

Cavaliere," she said, " he will stop a moment in the vestibule
before they put him in the coach. I want him to have
this — he must have it — it will be a relief and consolation to
him unspeakable. They will stop all of us, and will let no
one come to him ; but they will let you. You are a Jesuit,
and their friend. For the love of Gesu, Cavaliere, do him and
me, and all of us, this favour. He will bless you and pray
for you. He will intercede for you. For the love of God,
Cavaliere !"

She was pleading with such eager tearfulness and such
hurried speech and gesture, that he could not doubt her truth,
yet he paused a moment

Surely I know your voice?" he said.

Ah ! you know me," replied the masque, " but that is of
no consequence. Another moment, and it will be too late.
Cavaliere ! for the love of Gesu ! "

Inglesant took the small paper packet, v\'hich seemed to
contain a casket, and went down the fast emptying Church.
As he reached the entrance he turned and looked back for
the velvet masque, but she was nowhere to be seen. His
mind was full of suspicion, yet he was not unwilling to fulfil
his mission. He should, at any rate, speak to Molinos, and
perhaps grasp his hand.

In the vestibule Molinos stood alone, a circle being kept
at some distance round him by the guard. His manner was
unchanged and calm. The select crowd stood around gazing
at him with eager curiosity; outside might be heard again
the shouting of the mob, and the cry of "Fire !" Inglesant
advanced towards the Captain of the Sbirri ; but, to his surprise,
before he could speak, the latter made a sign, and the
guards fell back to let him pass. A murmur ran through the
crowd, and every one pressed forward with intense eagerness.
Molinos looked up, and an expression of grateful pleasure
lighted up his face as he extended his hand. Inglesant grasped
it with emotion, and looking him in the face, said, —

Adieu, Father, you are more to be envied than we. You
are clothed in the heavenly garment and sit down at the supper
of the King ; we wander in the outer darkness, with an aching
conscience that cannot rest."

The expression of the other's face was compassionate and
beautiful, and he said, —

Adieu, Cavaliere, we shall meet again one day, when the
veil shall be taken from the face of God, and we shall see Him
as He is."

As Inglesant grasped his hand he slipped the casket into
it, and as he did so dropped on one knee. The hand of the
monk rested on his head for a moment, and in the next he had
risen and stepped back, and the guards closed in for the last
time round Molinos, and the crowd pressed after, following
them to the coach.

When the carriage had driven off, and the crowd somewhat
dispersed, Inglesant came down the steps, and was turning to
the right into the Corso when he was surprised to see that the
Captain of the Sbirri had not followed his prisoner, but was
standing on the causeway with two or three of his men, near
a plain carriage which was waiting. As Inglesant came up he
turned to him, and said politely, —

Pardon, Signore Cavaliere, I must ask you to come with
me. You have conveyed a packet to a condemned prisoner
a grave offence — a packet which contains poison. You
will come quietly, no doubt."

"I will come quietly, certainly," said Inglesant. "Where
are we going? to the Inquisition?"

No, no," said the other, as he followed the new prisoner
into the coach, " yours is a civil offence ; we are going to the
St Angelo."

The General must have a taste for theatricals," thought
Inglesant as the coach rolled off, "or he never could have
planned such a melodrama."

On their arrival at the castle he was conducted into a good
room, not in the tower, which commanded an extensive view
of St. Peter's. Great liberty was allowed him, everything he
liked to pay for was procured for him, and at certain hours he
was allowed to walk on the glacis and fortifications.

The second day of his confinement was drawing to a close
when he was visited by the Dominican who had attended
Molinos. This monk, who seemed a superior person, had
evidently been impressed by the conversation and character of
his prisoner. After the first greeting he said, —

That unhappy man requested me to bring you a message.
It was to the effect that he had done you wrong. He saw you
among the crowd as he was being brought to the Minerva, and
noticed that you shrank back. He accused you in his mind
of fearing to be compromised ; he knows now that, on the contrary,
you were watching for an opportunity to do him a service.
It was but the thought of a moment, but he could not
rest until he had acknowledged it, and begged your forgiveness.
He bade me also to tell you that ' the bruised reed is
not broken, nor the smoking flax quenched'"

"Where did you leave him?" said Inglesant.

"At the door of his cell, which he calls his cabinet."

"the smoking flax is not quenched" said Inglesant; " I
hear that one of his followers, a day or two ago, before the
tribunal told the examiners to their faces that they ' were a
company of unjust, cruel, and heretical men, and that the
measure which they dealt to others was the same that Christ
Himself had received from His persecutors'"

It is true," said the Dominican, " and it is true also that
he is released ; such, on the contrary, is the clemency of the
Church."

After an imprisonment of about a fortnight, as Inglesant
was one day taking his usual walk upon the fortifications, he
was informed that the General of the Order was in his room,
and desired to see him. He went to him immediately, and
was received with great appearance of friendliness.

"You will pardon my Httle plot, Cavahere," said the
General, " especially as I gave orders that you should be made
very comfortable here. I wished to see in what manner and
how far you were our servant, and I have succeeded admirably.
I find, as I imagined, that you are invaluable ; but it
must be on your own terms, and at your own time. You are
faithful and unflinching when you have undertaken anything,
but each mission must be entered upon or renounced at your
own pleasure. I hope you have not been nourishing bitter
thoughts of me during your incarceration here."

Far from it," replied Inglesant ; " I have nothing to complain
of. I have all I want, and the view from these windows
is, as you see, unrivalled in Rome. If it consists with your
policy I should take it as a great favour were you to inform
me whether the velvet masque was a mere tool or not. I
could have sworn that her accent and manner were those of a
person speaking the truth ; still, when the Captain of the Barricade
way for me I thought I was in the toils."

Your penetration did not err. The lady was the Countess
of . She conceived the idea of communicating

with Molinos herself, and confided it to her director — not in
confession, observe. He consumed me, and we advised what
took place ; and what may console you still farther, we did
the lady no wrong. We have reason to know that, besides
the poison, some voting was conveyed to Molinos together
with the casket, by which he obtained information which he
was very desirous of receiving. You will forgive me now,
since your ' amour propre ' is not touched, and your friend's
purpose is served."

There was a pause, after which the General said, —
You have deserved well of the Order — few better ; and
whatever their enemies may say, the Companions of Jesus are
not unmindful of their children, nor ungrateful, unless the
highest necessities of the general good require it. You
look upon the prosecution of Molinos as an act of intolerable
tyranny, and you are yourself eager to enter upon a crusade on
behalf of religious freedom and of the rights of private devotion
and judgment. You are ready to engage almost single-handed
against the whole strength of the Society of Jesus,
of the Curia, and of the existing powers. I say nothing of the
Quixotic nature of the enterprise ; that would not deter you.
Nor of its utter hopelessness ; how hopeless you may judge
from the sudden collapse of the party of Molinos — a party so
favoured in high places, so fashionable, patronized, as has been
said, even by the Pope himself You may also judge of this
from the fact, of which you are probably aware, that every
detail of your late meeting was communicated to us by the
President of that meeting, and by many of those who attended
it. But in speaking of these matters to you, whose welfare I
sincerely seek, I address myself to another argument which I
imagine will have more weight. You have only considered
this coveted spiritual freedom as the right of the favoured few,
of the educated and refined. You have no desire and no
intention that it should be extended to the populace. But

you do not consider, as those who have the guidance of the
Church polity are bound to consider, that to grant it to the
one and deny it to the other is impossible ; that these principles
are sure to spread ; that in England and in other countries
where they have spread they have been the occasion of
incalculable mischiefs. You are standing, at this moment,
thanks chiefly to the nurture and clemency of the much-abused
Society of Jesus, at a point where you may choose one of two
roads, which, joining here, will never meet again. The question
is between individual license and obedience to authority 3
and upon the choice, though you may not think it, depends
the very existence of Christianity in the world. Between unquestioning
obedience to authority and absolute unbelief there
is not a single permanent resting-place, though many temporary
halts may be made. You will scarcely dispute this when
you remember that every heretical sect admits it. They only
differ as to what the authority is to which obedience is due.
We, in Rome at least, cannot be expected to allow any
authority save that of the Catholic Church, and indeed what
other can you place instead of it — a Book ? Do you think
that those who have entered upon the path of inquiry will
long submit to be fettered by the pages of dead languages ?
You know more of this probably than I do from your acquaintance
with the sceptics of other lands."

He paused as if waiting for a reply, but Inglesant did not
speak ; perhaps the logic of the Jesuit seemed to him unanswerable
— especially in the St. Angelo at Rome.

After a few seconds the latter went on, —

Ah ! I fear you still bear me some malice. If so, I regret
it very much. As I said before, you have no truer friend in
Rome than the Order and its unworthy General. I am convinced,
both by my own experience and by the reports of
others, that you are an invaluable friend and agent of the
Society in countries where men Hke you, gentlemen of honour,

bold, unflinching, and of spotless name, are wanted at every
turn, — men who have the confidence of both parties, of enemies
as well as friends. But long ere this you will have seen that
here in Rome we do things differently; here we strike openly
and at once, and we require agents of a far lower type, not so
much agents, indeed, as hammers ready to our hand. Your
refined nature is altogether out of place. As a friend I recommend
your return to England. Father St. Clare is there, and
no doubt requires you, and I am very certain that the climate
of Rome will not suit your health. You have passed some
years very pleasantly in Italy, as I believe, in spite of your
share in those great sorrows to which we all are heir ; and
though I am grieved to separate you from your friends, the
noblest in Rome, yet it is better that you should be parted in
this manner than by sharper and more sudden means. Every
facility shall be given you for transferring your property to
England, and I hope you will take with you no unpleasant
recollections of this city, and of the poor Fathers of Jesus, who
wish you well."

He pronounced these last words with so much feeling that
Inglesant could only reply, —

*' I have nothing to say of the Society but what is good.
It has ever been most tender and parental to me. I shall go
away with nothing but sadness and affection in my heart ;
with nothing but gratitude towards you. Father, with nothing
but reverence towards this city — the Mother of the World."

CHAPTER XIX.

FOR a long time nothing was found among the papers
from which these memoirs have been compiled relative
to Mr. Inglesant's life subsequent to his return to England ;
but at last the following imperfect letter was found, which is
here given as containing all the information on the subject
which at present is known to exist.

The date, with the first part of the letter, is torn off. The
first perfect line is given. The spelling has been modernized
throughout. The superscription is as follows : —
IMr. Anthony Paschal,

Physician,

London,
from his friend,

Mr. Valentine Lee,

Chirurgeon,

Of Reading.

From a certain tone in parts of the letter it would seem
that the writer was one of those who gave cause for the accusation
of scepticism brought in those days against the medical
profession generally.

***** >^r^^ vine, laden with grapes worked in
gold and precious stones, after the manner of Phrygian work,
which, according to Josephus, Tacitus, and other writers,
adorned the Temple at Jerusalem, and was seen of many when
that Temple was destroyed ; a manifest continuance of the old

Eastern worship of Bacchus, so dear to the human frailty.
As says the poet Anacreon, " Make me, good Vulcan, a deep
bowl and carve on it neither Charles's wain, nor the sad Orion,
but carve me out a vine with its swelling grapes, and Cupid,
Bacchus, and Bacillus pressing them together." For it is a
gallant philosophy, and the deepest wisdom, which, under the
shadow of talismans and austere emblems, wears the colours of
enjoyment and of life.

Methinks if the Puritans of the last age had known that
the same word in Latin means both worship and the culture
of polite life, they would not have condemned both themselves
and us to so many years of shadowy gloom and of a morose
antipathy to all delight And though they will perchance
retort upon me that the same word in the Greek meaneth both
worship and bondage, yet I shall reply that it was a service of
love and pleasure — a service in which all the beauties of earth
were called upon to aid, and in which the Deity was best
pleased by the happiness of His creatures, whose every faculty
of delight had been fully husbanded and trained. In these
last happy days, since his gracious Majesty's return, we have
seen a restoration of a cheerful gaiety, and adorning of men's
lives, when painting and poetry, and, beyond all, music, have
smoothed the rough ways and softened the hard manners of
men.

I came to Oxford, travelling in the Flying Coach with a
Quaker who inveighed greatly against the iniquity of the age.
At Oxford I saw more than I have space to tell you of;
amongst others, Francis Tattoo, who, you will recollect, left
his religion since the King's return, and sheltered himself
amongst the Jesuits. He was but lately come to Oxford, and
lodged at Francis Alder's against the Fleur-de-lis. I dined
with him there along with some others, and it being a Friday,
they had a good fish dinner with white wine. Among the
guests was one Father Lovel, a Jesuit. He has lived in Oxford

many years to supply seme for the Catholics, so bold and
free are the Papists now.

I conversed with another of the guests, a physician, who
after dinner took me to his house in Bear Lane, and showed
me his study, in a pleasant room to the south, overlooking
some of Christ Church gardens. Here he began to complain
of the Royal Society', and the Virtuosi, and I soon saw that he
was a follower of Dr. Gideon Harvey and Mr. Stubbs.
The country owes much," he said, " to such men as Burleigh,
Walsingham, Jewel, Abbot, Usher, Casaubon ; but if this newfangled
philosophy and mechanical education is to bear the
bell, I foresee that we shall look in vain in England for such
men again. In these deep and subtle inquiries into natural
philosophy and the intricate mechanisms by which this world
is said to be governed, neither physic will be unconcerned nor
will religion remain unshaken amidst the writings of these
Virtuosi. That art of reasoning by which the prudent are
discriminated from fools, which methodizes and facilitates our
discourse, which informs us of the validity of consequences
and the probability of arguments — that art which gives life to
solid eloquence, and which renders statesmen, divines, physicians,
and lawyers accomplished — how is this cried down
and vilified by the ignoramuses of these days ! "

I pleased myself with inspecting this man's books, with
which his study was well stored, and with the view from his
window; but I let his tongue run on uncontradicted, seeing
that he was of the old Protestant and scholastic learning,
which is never open to let in new light. He entertained me,
besides, with a long discourse to prove that Geber the chemist
was not an Indian King, and informed me with great glee that
the Royal Society, among other new-fangled propositions, had
conceived the idea of working silk into hats, which project,
though the hatters laughed at it, yet to satisfy them trial was
made, and for twenty shillings they had a hat made, but it

proved so bad that any one might have bought a better one
for eighteenpence.

He was entering upon a long argument against Descartes,
to refute whom he was obliged to contradict much that he
had said before, but at this time I excused myself and left
him.

When I came out from this man's house the college bells
were going for Chapel, as they used to do in the old time ;
methought it was the prettiest music I had heard for many a
day. I went to see an old man I remembered in Jesus Lane.
1 found him in the same little house, dressed in his gown tied
round the middle, the sleeves pinned behind, and his dudgeon
with a knife and bodkin ; it was the fashion for grave people
to wear such gowns in the latter end of Queen Elizabeth's
days. He says he is 104. When I was a boy at Oxon I
used to be always inquiring of him of the old time, the rood
lofts, the ceremonies in the College Chapels ; and his talk is
still of Queen Bess her days, and of the old people who
remembered the host and the wafer bread and the roods in
the Churches. In my time, at Oxford, crucifixes were common
in the glass in the study windows, and in the chamber windows
pictures of saints. This was " before the wars." What a
different world it was before the wars ! What strange old-world
customs and thoughts and stories vanished like phantoms
when the war trumpets sounded, and great houses and
proud names, and dominions and manors, and stately woods,
crumbled into dust, and every man did as seemed good to himself,
and thought as he liked.

On the Sunday I went to St. Mary's, and heard a preacher
and herbalist, who spoke of the virtues of plants and of the
Christian life in one breath. He told us that Homer writ sublimely
and called them x^^9^^ ^^^^' the hands of the Gods,
and that we ought to reach to them religiously with praise
and thanksgiving. " God Almighty," he said, " hath furnished

us with plants to cure us within a few miles of our own abodes,
and we know it not."

The next day I came to Worcester by the post, to the
house of my old friend Nathaniel Tomkins, who is now one
of the Prebends and Receptor. He lives in the close, or
college green, as they call it here. He comes of a family of
musicians. His grandfather was chanter of the choir of
Gloucester; his father organist to this same Cathedral of
"Worcester, and one of his uncles organist of St. Paul's and
gentleman of the Chapel Royal, and another, of whom more
anon, gentleman of the Privy Chamber to His Majesty Charles
the First, and well skilled in the practical part of music, and
was happily translated to the celestial chou: of angels before
the troubles.

I was pleased to see the faithful city recovered from the
ashes in which she sat when I was here last, and the daily
service of song again restored to the Cathedral Church, though
the latter is much out of repair and dimmed as to its splendour.
I like that religion the best which gives us sweet
anthems and solemn organ music and lively parts of melody.

I had not been here long when my friend the Receptor
told me that if I should stay two or three days longer, I should
hear as good a concert of violins as any in England, and also
hear a gentleman lately come from Italy, whose skill as a
lutinist and player on the violin had preceded him. When I
asked for the name of this gentleman, he told me it was that
jMr. John Inglesant who was servant to the late King, and of
whom so much eras spoken in the time of the Irish Rebellion.
When I heard this I resolved to stay, as you may suppose,
considering that we have more than once spoken together of
this person and desired to see him, especially since it had
been reported that he was returned to England.

I therefore willingly promised to remain, and spent my time
in practising on the violin, and in the city and cathedral. I

walked upon the river bank, and up and down the fine broad
streets leading from the bridge to the cathedral. From the
gates of the chancel down the stone steps the strange light
streamed on to the paved floor of the nave, chill and silent as
the grave until the strains of the organs awoke. Mr. Tomkins
told me that the loyal gentry of the surrounding counties had,
during the usurpation, made it a point of honour to purchase
and trade in Worcester, for the relief and encouragement of
the citizens, who were reduced to so low an ebb by the battle
and taking of the city.

Thursday was the day appointed for the music meeting,
and on that day I accompanied Mr. Tomkins to the house of
Mr. Barnabas Oley, another of the Prebends, who, you may
remember, wrote a preface, a year or two ago, to Mr. Herbert's
^' Country Parson." He also lives in the College Green, and
we found the company assembling in an oak parlour, which
looked upon an orchard where the trees were in full blossom.
There were present several of the clergy, and two or three
physicians and other gentlemen, who practised upon the
violin.

As we entered the room, Mr. Oley was speaking of Mr.
Inglesant, who was expected to come presently with the Dean.
I remember him well," he was saying, " when I was in
poverty and sequestration in the late troubles. He was supposed
to be in all the King's secrets, and was constantly
employed in private messages and errands. Some said that
he was a concealed Papist, but I have known him to attend
the Church service very devoutly. I recollect when I was in
the garrison at Pontefract Castle, and used to preach there as
long as it held out for His Majesty, that this Mr. Inglesant
suddenly appeared amongst us, though the leaguer was very
close, and I know he attended service there once or twice. I
was often at that time in want of bread, during my tidings
and wanderings, and obliged to change my habit, and did constantly

appear in a cloak and grey clothes. On one of these
occasions, when I was in great distress and was diligently and
particularly sought for by the rebels, who would willingly have
gratified those that would have discovered me, I fell in with
this Mr. Inglesant at an inn in Buckinghamshire. He was
then in company with one whom I knew to be a Popish priest,
but they both exerted themselves very kindly in my behalf,
and conducted me to the house of a Catholic gentleman in
those parts by whom I was entertained several days. Before
this, I now recollect, at the beginning of the wars, I met Mr.
Inglesant at Oxford. I was in the shop of a bookseller named
Forrest, against All Soul's College. I remember that I took
up Plato's select dialogues ' De rebus divines,' in Greek and
Latin, and excepted against some things as superfluous and
cabalistic, and that Mr. Inglesant, who was then a very
young man, defended the author in a way that showed his
scholarship. It was sumner weather and very warm, and the
enemy's cannon were playing upon the city as we could hear
as we talked in the shop."

While IMr. Oley was thus recollecting his past troubles,
Mr. Dean was announced, and entered the room accompanied
by Mr. Inglesant and by a servant who carried their violins.
You are, I know, acquainted with the Dean, who is also
Bishop of St. David's, and who, they say, will be Bishop of
Worcester also before long, so I need not describe him. The
first sight of Mr. Inglesant pleased me very much. He wore
his own hair long, after the fashion of the last age, but in other
respects he was dressed in the mode, in a French suit of black
satin, with cravat and ruffles of Mechlin lace. His expression
was lofty and abstracted, his features pale and somewhat thin,
and his carriage gave me the idea of a man who had seen the
world, and in whom few things were capable of exciting any
extreme interest or attention. His eyes were light blue, of
that peculiar shade which gives a dreamy and indifferent

VOL. II. u

expression to the face. His manner was courteous and polite,
almost to excess, yet he seemed to me to be a man who was
habitually superior to his company, and I felt in his presence
almost as I should do in that of a prince. Something of this
doubtless was due to the sense I had of the part he had played
in the great events of the late troubles, and of the nearness of
intercourse and of the confidence he had enjoyed with his late
Majesty of blessed memory. It was impossible not to look
with interest upon a man who had been so familiar with the
secret history of those times, and who had been taken into the
confidence both of Papists and Churchmen.

When he had been introduced to the company, Mr. Oley
reminded him of the incidents he had been relating before his
arrival. When he mentioned the meeting in the inn in Buckinghamshire,
Mr. Inglesant seemed affected.

I remember it well," he said. " I was with Father St.
Clare, whose deathbed I attended not two months after my
return to England. Do you remember, Mr. Oley," he went onto
say, "the sermons at St. Martin's in Oxford, where Mr.
Giles Windows preached ? I remember seeing you there,
sir, and indeed his high and loyal sermons were much frequented
by the royal party and soldiers of the garrison ; and I
have heard that he was most benevolent to many of the most
needy in their distress. I remember that poor Thetford
played the organs there often, before he was killed in the
trenches."

"Ah," said Mr. Oley, "we have heard strange music in
our day. I was in York when it was besieged by three very
notable and great armies — the Scotch, the Northern under
Lord Fairfax, and the Southern under the Earl-of Manchester
and Oliver. At that time the service at the Cathedral every
Sunday morning was attended by more than a thousand ladies,
knights, and gentlemen, besides soldiers and citizens ; when
the booming of cannon broke in upon the singing of the

psalms, and more than once a cannon bullet burst into the
Minster amongst the people, like a furious fiend or evil spirit,
yet no one hurt."

After some talk of this nature we settled ourselves to our
music and to tune our instruments. Mr. Inglesant's violin
was inscribed " Jacobus Stainer in Assam prope CEnipontem
1647 ;" Onions is the Latin name of Instruct in Germany,
the chief city of the Tyrol, where this maker lived. As soon
as ]mr. Inglesant drew his bow across the strings I was
astonished at the full and piercing tone, which seemed to me
to exceed even that of the Cremona.

We played a concert or two, with a double bass part for
the violent, which had a noble effect ; and Mr. Inglesant
being pressed to oblige the company, played a descant upon
a ground bass in the Italian manner. I should fail were I to
attempt to describe to you what I felt during the performance
of this piece. It seemed to me as though thoughts, which I
had long sought and seemed ever and anon on the point of
realizing, were at last given me, as I Hastened to chords of
plaintive sweetness broken now and again by cruel and bitter
discords — a theme into which were wrought street and tavern
music and people's songs, which lively airs and catches, upon
the mere pressure of the string, trembled into pathetic and
melancholy cadences. In these dying falls and closes all the
several parts were gathered up and brought together, yet so
that what before was joy was now translated into sorrow, and
the sorrowful transfigured to peace, as indeed the many shifting
scenes of life vary upon the stage of men's affairs.

The concert being over, Mr. Dean informed us that it was
his intention to attend the afternoon service in the Cathedral,
and Mr. Inglesant accompanying him, the physicians departed
to visit their patients, and my host and some of the clergy and
myself went to the Cathedral also, entering rather late.

After the service, in which was sung an anthem by Dr.

Nathaniel Giles, Mr. Dean retired to the vestry, and Mr. Inglesant
coming down the Church, I found myself close to him at
the west door. We stopped opposite to the monument of
Bishop Garden, who is depicted in his effigy holding a book,
presumably the '•'• Icon Bailie" in his hand. I inquired of
Mr. Inglesant what his opinions were concerning the authorship
of that work, and finding that he was disposed to converse,
we went down to the river side, the evening being remarkably
fine, and, crossing by the ferry, walked for some time in the
chapter meadows upon the farther bank. The evening sun
was setting towards the range of the Malvern Hills, and the
towers and spires of the city were shining in its glow, and were
reflected in the water at our feet.

I said to Mr. Inglesant that I was greatly interested in the
events of the last age, in which he had been so trusted and
prominent an actor, and that I hoped to learn from him many
interesting particulars, but he informed me that he knew but
little except what the world was already possessed of He
said that he very deeply regretted that, during the last two
years of the Hfe of the late King, he himself was a close
prisoner in the Tower; and was therefore prevented from
assisting in any way, or being useful to His Majesty. He said
that there was something peculiarly affecting in the position
of the King in those days, as he was isolated from his friends,
and entirely dependant upon three or four faithful and subordinate
servants. He said that, since his return to England,
he had made it his business to seek out several of these, and
had received much interesting information from them, which,
as he hoped it would soon be made public, he was not at
present at liberty to communicate. Mr. Inglesant, however,
told me one incident relating to the last days of the King of
so affecting a character that, as it is too long to be repeated
here, I shall hope to inform you of when we meet together.
He said, moreover, that the fatal mistake the King made was

consenting to the death of Lord Strafford; that on many
occasions he had yielded when he should have been firm ; but
that most of his misfortunes, such as reverses and indecision
in the field, were caused by circumstances entirely beyond his
control. There is nothing new in these opinions, but I give
them just as Mr. Inglesant stated them, lest you should think
I had not taken advantage of the opportunity presented to me.
It appeared to me that he was not very willing to discourse
upon these bygone matters of State intrigue.

Seeing this I changed the topic, and said that as Mr. Inglesant
had had much experience in the working of the Romish
system, I should be glad to know his opinion of it, and whether
he preferred it to that of the English Church. Here I found
I was on different ground. I saw at once beneath the veil of
polite manner, which was this man's second nature, that his
whole life and being was in this question.

This is the supreme quarrel of all," he said. " This is
not a dispute between sects and kingdoms ; it is a conflict
within a man's own nature — nay, between the noblest parts of
man's nature arrayed against each other. On the one side
obedience and faith, on the other, freedom and the reason.
What can come of such a conflict as this but throes and
agony .? I was not brought up by the Papists in England,
nor, indeed, did I receive my book learning from them. I
was trained for a special purpose by one of the Jesuits, but
the course he took with me was different from that which he
would have taken with other pupils whom he did not design
for such work. I derived my training from various sources,
and especially, instead of Aristotle, and the school-men, I was
fed upon Plato. The difference is immense. I was trained
to obedience and devotion ; but the reason in my mind for
this conduct was that obedience and devotion and gratitude
were ideal virtues, not that they benefited the order to which
I belonged, nor the world in which I lived. This I take to bethe

difference between the Papists and myself. The Jesuits
do not like Plato, as lately they do not like Lord Bacon.
Aristotle, as interpreted by the school-men, is more to their
mind. According to their reading of Aristotle, all his Ethics
are subordinated to an end, and in such a system they see a
weapon which they can turn to their own purpose of maintaining
dogma, no matter at what sacrifice of the individual conscience
or reason. This is what the Church of Rome has ever
done. She has traded upon the highest instincts of humanity,
upon its faith and love, its passionate remorse, its self-abnegation
and denial, its imagination and yearning after the unseen.
It has based its system upon the profoundest truths, and upon
this platform it has raised a power which has, whether foreseen
by its authors or not, played the part of human tyranny, greed,
and cruelty. To support this system it has habitually set itself
to suppress knowledge and freedom of thought, before thought
had taught itself to grapple with religious subjects, because it
foresaw that this would follow. It has, therefore, for the sake
of preserving intact its dogma, risked the growth and welfare
of humanity, and has, in the eyes of all except those who
value this dogma above all other things, constituted itself the
enemy of the human race. I have perhaps occupied a position
which enables me to judge somewhat advantageously between
the Churches, and my earnest advice is this. You will
do wrong — mankind will do wrong — if it allows to drop out
of existence, merely because the position on which it stands
seems to be illogical, an agency by which the devotional
instincts of human nature are enabled to exist side by side
with the rational. The English Church, as established by the
law of England, offers the supernatural to all who choose to
come. It is like the Divine Being Himself, whose sun shines
alike on the evil and on the good. Upon the altars of the
Church the divine presence hovers as surely, to those who
believe it, as it does upon the splendid altars of Rome.

Thanks to circumstances which the founders of our Church
did not contemplate, the way is open ; it is barred by no confession,
no human priest. Shall we throw this aside ? It has
been won for us by the death and torture of men Hke ourselves
in bodily frame, infinitely superior to some of us in self-denial
and endurance. God knows — those who know my life know
too well — that I am not worthy to be named with such men ;
nevertheless, though we cannot endure as they did, at least do
not let us needlessly throw away what they have won. It is
not even a question of religious freedom only ; it is a question
of learning and culture in every form. I am not blind to the
peculiar dangers that beset the English Church. I fear that
its position, standing, as it does, a mean between two extremes,
will engender indifference and sloth ; and that its freedom will
prevent its preserving a discipline and organizing power, without
which any community will suffer grievous damage ; nevertheless,
as a Church it is unique : if suffered to drop out of
existence, nothing like it can ever take its place."

The Church of England," I said, seeing that Mr. Inglesant
paused, " is no doubt a compromise, and is powerless to
exert its discipline, as the events of the late troubles have
shown. It speaks with bated assurance, while the Church of
Rome never falters in its utterance, and I confess seems tome
to have a logical position. If there be absolute truth revealed,
there must be an inspired exponent of it, else from age
to age it could not get itself revealed to mankind."

This is the Papist argument," said Mr. Inglesant; "there is
only one answer to it — Absolute truth is not revealed. There
were certain dangers which Christianity could not, as it would
seem, escape. As it brought down the sublimest teaching of
Platonism to the humblest understanding, so it was compelled,
by this very action, to reduce spiritual and abstract truth to
hard and inadequate dogma. As it inculcated a sublime indifference
to the things of this life, and a steadfast gaze upon the

future ; so, by this very means, it encouraged the growth of a
wild unreasoning superstition. It is easy to draw pictures
of martyrs suffering the torture unmoved in the face of a
glorious hereafter; but we must acknowledge, unless we
choose to call these men absolute fiends, that it was these
selfsame ideas of the future, and its relation to this life, that
actuated their tormentors. If these things are true, — if the
future of mankind is parcelled out between happiness and
eternal torture, — then, to ensure the safety of mankind at large,
the death and torment for a few moments of comparatively few
need excite but little regret. From the instant that the founder
of Christianity left the earth, perhaps even before, this ghastly
spectre of superstition ranged itself side by side with the
advancing faith. It is confined to no Church or sect ; it exists
in all. Faith in the noble, the unseen, the unselfish, by its
very nature encourages this fatal growth ; and it is nourished
even by those who have sufficient strength to live above it ;
because, forsooth, its removal may be dangerous to the wellbeing
of society at large, as though anything could be more
fatal than falsehood against the Divine Truth."

But if absolute truth is not revealed," I said, " how can
we know the truth at all ? "

We cannot say how we know it," replied Mr. Inglesant,
but this very ignorance proves that we can know. We are
the creatures of this ignorance against which we rebel. From
the earliest dawn of existence we have known nothing. How
then could we question for a moment ? What thought should
we have other than this ignorance which we had imbibed from
our growth, but for the existence of some divine principle,
Fons veri lucius ' within us ? The Founder of Christianity
said, ' The kingdom of God is within you.' We may not only
know the truth, but we may live even in this life in the very
household and court of God. We are the creatures of birth, of
ancestry, of circumstance ; we are surrounded by law, physical

and psychical, and the physical very often dominates and rules
the soul. As the chemist, the navigator, the naturalist, attain
their ends by means of law, which is beyond their power to
alter, which they cannot change, but with which they can work
in harmony, and by so doing produce definite results, so may we.
We find ourselves immersed in physical and psychical laws,
in accordance with which we act, or from which we diverge.
Whether we are free to act or not we can at least fancy that
we resolve. Let us cheat ourselves, if it be a cheat, with this
fancy, for we shall find that by so doing we actually attain the
end we seek. Virtue, truth, love, are not mere names ; they
stand for actual qualities which are well known and recognized
among men. These qualities are the elements of an ideal life,
of that absolute and perfect life of which our highest culture
can catch but a glimpse. As Mr. Hobbes has traced the individual
man up to the perfect state, or Civitas, let us work still
lower, and trace the individual man from small origins to the
position he at present fills. We shall find that he has attained
any position of vantage he may occupy by following the laws
which our instinct and conscience tell us are Divine. Terror
and superstition are the invariable enemies of culture and progress.
They are used as rods and bogies to frighten the
ignorant and the base, but they depress all mankind to the
same level of abject slavery. The ways are dark and foul, and
the grey years bring a mysterious future which we cannot see.
We are like children, or men in a tennis court, and before our
conquest is half won the dim twilight comes and stops the
game; nevertheless, let us keep our places, and above all
things hold fast by the law of life we feel within. This was
the method which Christ followed, and He won the world by
placing Himself in harmony with that law of gradual development
which the Divine Wisdom has planned. Let us follow
in His steps and we shall attain to the ideal life ; and, without

VOL. II. X

waiting for our ' mortal passage tread the free and spacious
streets of that Jerusalem which is above."

He spoke more to himself than to me. The sun, which
was just setting behind the distant hills, shone with dazzling
splendour for a moment upon the towers and spires of the city
across the placid water. Behind this fair vision were dark
rain clouds, before which gloomy background it stood in fairy
radiance and light. For a moment it seemed a glorious city,
bathed in Hfe and hope, full of happy people who thronged its
streets and bridge, and the margin of its gentle stream. But
it was "breve studium." Then the sunset faded, and the
ethereal vision vanished, and the landscape lay dark and chill.

The sun is set," Mr. Inglesant said cheerfully, " but it will
rise again. Let us go home."

I have writ much more largely in this letter than I intended,
but I have been led onward by the interest which I deny not
I feel in this man. When we meet I will tell you more.

Your ever true friend,

Valentine Lee.

THE END.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.
