in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hacodreamertaleo01sime

^ 3Dak xrf ^totd} litfcrsitg life

BY

WILLIAM Time

AUTHOR OF ' KING CAPITAL,' ' TO AND FRO,' 'THE RED ROUTE,' ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. I

"go nib on:

REMINGTON & CO., PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN



[all RIGHTS reserved]

CONTENTS

"i CHAPTER I

**> Hac and his Father 1

"^ CHAPTER II

^

Sandy and the Grieve . , . . . 17

^ CHAPTER III

At the University Gates 32

^ CHAPTER IV

■^ Sandy's First Day . . . . . . 47

i CHAPTER V
black-Mail 63

CHAPTER VI
:i^HE Nursing Sister 77

^^ CHAPTER Iii
The Apparition 93

CHAPTER yni

An Explosion 104

CHAPTER IX

Electing the Lord Rector . . . .120

CHAPTER X
In the Wards 134

CHAPTER XI

An Examination 146

CHAPTER XII
Despair 161

CHAPTER XIII

Roger TlIORBURN AT HOME . . . .172

CHAPTER XIV

Christie's Supper . . . . . .186

CHAPTER XV

The end of the Session . 205

CHAPTER XVI
Home 216

CHAPTER XVII
Interrupted Love-making 229

-^-^

CHAPTER I

HACO AND HIS FATHER

Hac,' said Sir Thomas Spens, one afternoon in
autumn, as he looked from the open window of his
dining-room at Binkie Manor upon the broad
expanse of the Firth of Forth, which stretched
from the rocks at the foot of his garden in Fife-shire
to the further shores of Mid-Lothian. ' Hac,
you must make up your mind, one of these days,
what you are to be. You are done with school ;

VOL. I a

you have to prepare for life. Your eighteenth
birthday will occur this winter. Have you no
tastes or predilections ? Don't you want to be
something, eh ? '

Sir Thomas put the question with a brusqueness
which woke up the lad addressed as Hac
to the reality of his father's presence. Father and
son were as little like as they could well be. The
former was short of stature, with a massive head of
wavy white hair, prominent, piercing grey eyes, a
contorted mouth, and arms which seemed out of
all proportion to his body. The latter was tall,
slender, with a willowy poise of the shoulders : he
had, at this period, rather a girlish face, in which
the clearness of the blue eyes was apt to attract
a special attention, while the rippling of his
yellow, uncut hair over his neck distinguished
him from others of the same ao-e. At Dreohorn
School, where he had spent the better part of four
years, he was variously regarded as a ' must' ' and

a ' duffer ' because he wore his hair in that way ;
but it was his father who ordered him not to cut
it, because his mother, before she died, had liked
to see him with the distinction of long locks. It
was beginning to strike Sir Thomas Spens, however,
that his boy being outwardly so unlike other
boys, might bring on himself the fate of the
unfortunate chicken that is pecked out of the
farmyard for some dissimilarity of comb and
feathers.

Eh ? ' he repeated, turning from the window
to look at his son, who was lounging dreamily
in an arm-chair. ' You will be eighteen this
winter, and it's about time you were making up
your mind. Have you no tastes, I ask you ? '

Yes, father, I have tastes, plenty of them. I
like hunting among the strawberry beds. I care
to take a peach off the south dyke, and with the
wasps darting at it, to digest it by myself in
the sunshine. I like to open the gate in the

sea-wall and go down on the rocks, when the
tide is out, and gather dulse. I enjoy stripping,
with my boat at anchor, and swimming in the
deep sea. I like lying on my back among the
shingle, when the sun has ozone down, and looking
up at the stars.'

Poor boy ! poor boy ! ' said Sir Thomas, ' these
are tastes which don't point to anything in
particular, if, indeed they don't point to you
being a born loafer. Now have you no other
sort ? Don't you feel, for example, that the time
might come when you would want to stand ina
law court, with a wig on your head and a gown
on your back, making your voice sound all over
the place, while a box of jurymen twist their
necks to hear you — eh ? eh ? '

Hac only yawned and stirred in his chair.
No lawyer ! ' murmured Sir Thomas, bursting
out again, after he had taken a long look across
the Firth to the heights of Edinburgh, where a

mist of smoke lay clustered. ' Why, man, at your
age I had been to Greenland in a whaler, and
removed a limb, and set three collar-bones. I
knew something of surgery at eighteen, and I
knew very well what I would be at, anyhow,
and I had other things in my head than strawberries
and peaches. I should think, from your
letters, now, from Dreghorn, Hac, that you
might have a turn for theology. Great prizes
in theology now-a-days ; carries a man far up.
What d'ye say, Hac, to a pulpit — eh ? eh ?
Large field for selection. What Church would
you belong to ? The one your mother belonged
to, I suppose — or any Church you like. They're
all the same now-a-days. Great prizes in them all.
Do you fancy preaching ? '

No, father ; I shan't go into the Church, and
I shan't go to the bar. I was looking all through
your museum, yesterday, at the top of the
house '

You were ! And what business had you
looking into my museum ? I declare the inquisitiveness
of a youth is only equalled by this
silliness. By his silliness, sir ! I say it deliberately,'
said the father, who spoke with extreme
vehemence and rapidity.

And,' resumed Hac, in a voice subdued by the
fire of the paternal language, ' I should like to
be a surgeon like you, father.'

Sir Thomas had spent his life in hospitals. He
was, perhaps, the leading oculist of his time, as
long as he practised from Simple Street, London.
He had extracted beams and motes from thousands
of eyes — from eyes illustrious over the world for
what they could see ; the eyes of .statesmen,
pained by midnight labours ; the eyes of soldiers,
blinded by smoke and tire in the breach ; the eyes
of tragedians who had heated them by nightly
strains, and of comedians who had winked them
out of shape ; blue eyes, black eyes, grey eyes,

green eyes, brown eyes, red eyes — eyes of every
tinge and hue, Sir Thomas had looked into and
healed.

There was just the least glitter in his own eyes,
as he realized that his son was proposing to follow
in his footsteps. It had been the dream of his life
that he should do so. His wrath abated at once ashe
looked on the slender figure on the chair, and
there was triumph in every lineament of his face
as he murmured, ' He has inherited the taste.'

You would like to be a surgeon ! ' he said. ' I
am pleased to hear you say so. Come here, lad,
and look across the Firth. Look up the slope to
Arthur's Seat. Yes ; nothing the matter with your
eyes. That's Edinburgh. Now, Hac, though my
windows command a view of Edinburgh, and
though any fine afternoon you may, if you like,
go up on the other side to the Castle walls, and
from the Mons Meg corner see the old place when
you are home-sick, you must bear it in mind that.

practically, it is as distant as London for you. If
you are determined to be a surgeon, you must
accept the conditions of study and go through
your course as other young men do. Let me see :
you are eighteen this winter. Four years will take
you through it. You will write M.B. after your
name when you are twenty-two. A fine thing
that will be, for I have no M.B. myself — only a
double qualification, my boy, though it is backed
by baronetcy, later on, to be sure. Still, you
will have an advantage , with your M.B. standing,
which I, your father, didn't have at your age.
Hac, let me see your hands. No, they are not
mine ; they taper, and have more nerve than
sinew in them. Your mother's hands, sir. Well,
they may do better things than I have done.
Follow your taste, I say, and if it leads you to
Simple Street (from which I have retired these
half-dozen yea^vs, for the purpose of investigating
the physiology of the eye in my own laboratory,

on my own estate), then I say that's fate, and
we must accept it. But you will please to remember,
Hac, that it is Edinburgh you are going
to, and not Cambridge.'

Of course it isn't Cambridge, father,' said
Hac, twisting a cameo on the little finger of
his left hand. ' I see it before me — Edinburgh
and its cloud of smoke ; Arthur's Seat presiding
over it, the Castle protecting it, Calton Hill supporting
it. I don't confound it with Cambridge.'

Eh ? eh ? ' said Sir Thomas, who bore interruption
badly. ' If you will only wait a minute, I will
explain the difference to you. You go over thereto
fight your way and to learn the art of life for
yourself. You don't understand what I mean ?
Well, that's very likely; but what I do mean is
that over there, instead of S'oingr inside a fine
architectural pile, with common rooms, and combination
rooms, and cooks of renown, and dons
to drill you, and proctors to protect you, you

must find out rooms for yourself, you must pick
your own associates, you must make your
own hours for recreation and study ; you must
cross the line, in fact, from youth to manhood,
with your own staff in your hand. Well, you
are close upon eighteen, and you want to be a
surgeon. Why not ? But over there, my boy,
you will have few of the things you are used to
in this house. For, if I allow you six pounds a
week to find your board and lodging with, I allow
you what it is probable that half-a-dozen other
men in the University don't have. That, however,
you will have — six pounds a week ; and your fees
and books and clothes I shall pay over and above.
But you can't have home attendance on that. The
University opens about the beginning of November.
Let me see, you have still a month. There
is a preliminary examination, to be sure, which
you must pass, to test your knowledge of addition
and Latin roots. After Dreghorn, you can have no

difficulty with it. You will pass it, and take
chemistry and anatomy for your winter classes.
Next season you wall join the botany and zoology
classes ; but in the meantime you must go to a

hospital every day. Take a dressership Eh ?

eh ? Too soon ? What the deuce do you know
about it ? You will take a dressership in Dr
Crum's ward at once. Crum is a friend of mine.
He has introduced all my operations — all that he
can perform, at least — and is, on the whole, the
only man who practically understands the eye in
Edinburgh. His colleagues are as ignorant as
beasts on the subject, as you will very likely find
omit from my controversial writings, dien you
come that length. And about my museum upstairs,
you can see that for yourself. After your
first session, I will have finished my series of experiments
on moles, and, after studying the bones, you
will be in a condition to understand them. Very
good. We will meet at dinner, if you please.'

From school to college, from the restraint of
Dreghorn, with its numerous dormitories and its
reglifYie of tall hats and regulation hours, to manhood
and rooms and hours of his own ! Hac felt
a delirious rush of satisfaction, as he sped through
an open conservatory and escaped, at a hound,
down some steps of rockery to the shell-strewn
walks and the broad green lawn at the foot of
the garden wall. He let himself out upon the
rocks, and was presently standing at the edge of
an inlet, and on the beach a lad was sawing a
plank at the side of a yacht. Hac bounded across
the shingle, and, seizing the sawing arm of the lad,
arrested his action, and demanded his instantaneous
sympathy.

Sandy, d'ye know what I'm going to be ? ' he
asked.

Sandy stood for a moment looking at his questioner.
He was a short, muscular lad, with a
broad chest, plain features, and a massive nose.

When he took off his cap to rub the top of his
head, he discovered a broad brow and a pair of
twinkling eyes.

The laird, I'll warrant, when the time comes,
said Sandy, ' an' the laird's son just now. Ye'll be
going to be a great yachtsman, like the rest o'
them, an' a good shot, an' a salmon fisher, an' live
for your pleasure. I'm just satin' a plank for the
cabin locker.'

Sandy put his hand on his saw again, and was
re-commencing his work, when Hac interrupted
him with a shout of —

A surgeon, Sandy, like father ; and I'm off to
Edinburgh one of these days to commence studying.
I am my own master now, and shall have
rooms and an income of my own. Take off your
cap, Sandy, and give me three cheers ! '

Sandy was only a month older than Hac ; but
there was a deep seriousness about the expression
of his face, which might have been more appropriately

worn by one greatly his senior in years. He
took off his cap, However, and said,

Three cheers, then. An' will there be nobody
to look after ye ? '

Do you call these cheers, man ? They're
fifroans. Take care of rue ! A man doesn't want
to be taken care of who enters the University.
I shall take care of myself. When you go up to
Binkie Mains, tell your father and Tibbie and
your mother about it. I won't want to sail much
this year, but you can finish that job on the locker.'

Sandy Baxter's father lived away from the
shore half-a-mile, in a farmyard which supplied
Binkie Manor with all its country produce, sending
the rest to various county towns, as they might
want it. He was ' the grieve ' of the farm, and his
son had, during the holidays, been much of a humble
companion for Hac. He yacht with him in his
little sloop ; he swam with him ; he assisted in

innumerable little projects of amusement on sea
and shore, and the pair had a mutual esteem for
each other, amounting in Sandy's case to affection,
and in Hac's to affectionate patronage.

When the latter went home over the rocks,
Sandy sawed his plank, climbed into the beached
yacht, and fitted it to the locker. Then he
ascended the lime tree walk and reached his
father's cottage, as the fowls were being* driven
into their houses for the evening, and the cows
were lowing at the gate.

Father,' said Sandy, ' Mr Hac's going' to
Edinburgh this year to be a doctor.'

The Lord preserve him ! ' said Mrs Baxter, who
overheard the remark from her open door, at which
she now showed her plain, sensible face, while
Tibbie, adorned at the throat with blue ribbons,
appeared in the background, exclaiming :

Never, now, Sandy, you're joking.'

Father said Sandy, ' I'm away to Aul<i Reekie
when November comes in ;' and he followed the
grieve into his stables, while the mother and sister
set up a little chorus of ejaculations.

SANDY AND THE GRIEVE

The grieve and his son walked round the

steading in silence, from stable to barn, and

through a gate among the corn ricks to a field

behind, where half-a-dozen foals, as yet ignorant

of the yoke, were scampering at large.

Weel, man,' said the father, a broad-shouldered,

serious man, laying a foot upon the lower rung of

a gate, and casting an eye over the fields to the

Firth beyond it. 'Weel, man, what's this ye'vo

gotten in your head ? '

VOL. I B

'Just that I want to begin and look about me.
If Mr Hac's fit to begin yonder, so am I.'

Ay, man. And the plough's no good enough
fur ye ! Ye think what fitted me '11 no fit you.
Whaup did ye get yer guide conceit o' yourself' { It
was my intention to set ye up wi' a pair o' horse
this winter. Ye could mak' a sure levin' o' that ;
and yon toon's a wee uncanny for a lad frae the
country. Gang to " Auld Reekie," and, maybe,
starve; stay at Binkie Mains, an' ye'll hae your
bread an' cheese, anyway.'

It takes a long time to be a grieve,' said Sandy.

To be sure it does,' replied the father. ' It's a
responsible position. Look round about ye to
what I have to attend to — sheep on the hill, cattle
in the park, the foxes to feed at the earths, the
needs, the corn, the potatoes, and Sir Thomas
Spens walking about there, allowing no man to
interfere with a mole. He sets mair store by his
moles than he does by his horses. It's no easy

thing to be a grieve ; and it's a position you have
to work for — year in and year out — patiently
and soberly.'

Father, I want to go to the college.'

If Sandy had lifted his hand and struck oft* his
father's hat, he could not have astonished him
more than he did by his announcement.

You want to go to the college V repeated the
grieve, taking his foot oft* the gate and retiring a
pace to gaze upon this audacious son of his.
Ay, nan,' he went on, having satisfied himself
that the youth was serious, ' this is what it comes
tae, when the laird's son takes a fancy tae the son
0' his grieve. I thocht ye had mair sense, Sandy,
and kent your position better. D'ye think, now
because Mr Hac can gang over yonder, and bea
scholar and a gentleman a' his days, that you,
without so much as a bawbee to your pootch, can
venture to imitate him V

I'm not seeking to imitate him ; but Dominic

Dunn says, " Sandy, go to college. A lad o' your
mettle can always make your way, and in Edinburgh
you'll make it well. I'll give you a line to
one or two o' my friends, and you can keep yourself
at teaching until you have your degree in your
trunk. A degree's a two-dosed sword, Sandy""
he said, "you can fight your way with it in any
country or clime. People must quarrel and die
and think about their hinder end, and as long as
they do all these, they will need lawyers, doctors,
and ministers." That's what the dominie said, and
you remember that I've taken all his best prizes,
and that I know enough to teach something too

o

others.'

Ay, man,' again observed the grieve, with less
of surprise and scepticism in his tone, as he strode
across the fields toward his well-thatched ricks and
the farmyard. His son kept pace with him, and
said no more till they entered the one-storey house.
It was a sufficiently small cottage, containing three

rooms ; a ladder from the kitchen, which was also
the dining-room, led up to a 'loft,' in which
Sandy had slept since he first abandoned his
cradle.

The grieve sat down to his supper, a wholesome
meal of eggs, bannocks, and milk, with his wife
and family, but did not, at first, recur to the
subject of the conversation in the field. Having
swallowed his meal, however, he pushed back his
chair, and said,

Sandy, we'd better tell your mother what you
told me just now.'

The mother looked knowingly at the son ;
Tibbie looked encouragingly at the father ; and the
father perceived at a glance that it was not the
first time the subject had been aired in his house.

Mother,' said Sandy, ' I'm going to college.'

Ay, man,' interpolated the father, ' you're a step
further on this time. It was, last time, " 1 want,"

it's this time, " I'm going. " There's enough o'
conceit in ye, man, for ten.'

Mrs Baxter, swelling with pride in her only son
and sympathising with his ambition, and believing
in it, answered for him.

Sandy's right. Will you just look round about
you, Alexander Baxter, and tell me what letter
right the parish minister of Muchterauchtie had to
his college education than Sandy will have ?
Didn't his mother and my mother bind " stooks"
in the same field ? And will you tell me what the
writer of " Kennel " was ? — a bare-footed laddie
running about the High Street. And who's Doctor
Philip, who rides half over the county ] '

Oh, I see, ' said the father, ' it's you that's at the
bottom o' it. Ye want braidclaith for him where
I had moleskin. Ye want him to have white
hands and to be a very line gentleman. But it was
only yesterday was a week that Sir Thomas said tome,
" Baxter, you're right ; send your son to the

plough. Let him improve his mind after hours,
if he likes ; have at manual labour in the first
place. These are times, Baxter," said Sir Thomas,
when great opportunities are open to a man who
understands practical agriculture. The colonies
have all to be ploughed yet. Think o' that." And
for practical sagacity and foresight, commend me
to Sir Thomas Spens.'

But he's made up his mind, father,' said Tibbie,
he's going to college, and you must let him. '

I've never been asked to give him leave ; but
since you're so clever among you, and have settled
that to college he goes, ye'll maybe let me know
how it's going to be done ? '

Ten pounds will pay all the fees. Eight
shillings a week will pay all the expense of
lodging. Dominie Dunn did it on less.'

And what isn't you're going to be ? You've
never condescended so far as to mention. '

A surgeon. '

Upon my word, ' said the grieve, reaching to
the mantelpiece and bringing down his pipe, ' you'd
better say at once you want to be Sir Thomas
Spens. You'd be for being upsides wi' the son
too, in the same class with him, and the same
company. Od's sake, I do not know what the
world's coming' to. '

No, ' said Sandy ; ' I wouldn't have the same
companions, and I wouldn't be at the same classes
with Mr Hac. The college is a word we use'

We use ! ' repeated the grieve, with an accent
of sarcasm.

For all the extra-mural schools as well as the
University. '

Extra what ? '

Extra-mural — over the wall schools. '

And you'd be an over-the-wall scholar ? alan,
I wouldn't be that, if I was you.'

You don't understand, father.'

No, maybe not. With a line, smart chap like

you for a son, I'm likely to be dull enough. It's
no much in my line to understand about colleges.'

You see father it's like this : I go to an extra-mural
school ; it's cheaper, and they say the same
kind of teaching. I get my qualifications, like
Sir Thomas, and if I like to go to London and
pass for an M.B. in the London University, at
the end of my course, I can do it.'

The grieve fell into a long reverie, from which it
was impossible for the son to rouse him. He went
outside with an appearance of attending to something,
but it was only to pass out on the high road
smoking.

There was a little pride and satisfaction mixed
up with his reflections — pride in his son's pluck,
satisfaction with the prospect of a broadcloth
career for one he had designed for the fields.
But then the scheme might fail. His son mii^ht
not be able to work his own way so independently
as he supposed. That unknown city across the

water from Binkie whose lights he could see
shining* in the darkness — what mif(ht it not
contain of failure and misfortune for his only
boy?

On the road he met the parish minister of
Binkie returning to his house.

You're late up,' said the minister, who knew
it was the habit of the grieve's household to be
in bed at sundown.

Weel, minister, I am late. I'm ruminating'
about an important matter anent my son, Sandy.
Sandy has made up his mind to leave us, and to
start on his own account over there. He would
be a surgeon, he says ; an' I have neither ways
nor means to mak' him a surgeon.'

Sandy's clever,' said the minister, ' and steady,
I would have no fears of him anywhere. You
should let a lad of that sort take his own course.'

It's what I fear I will have to do, any way.'

Then don't ruminate uselessly al»out it. mr

Dunn has been talking to me about the boy, and
he has great hopes of him succeeding. Lads like
Sandy are the backbone of the student class of
the city. Good-night, Mr Baxter.'

Good-night, sir.'

The oTieve returned to the steadiness in a less
uneasy frame of mind. After all, the way might
open up for Sandy, though he didn't see how. He
would go in and hear what new aspect it presented
to his wife.

Jean Baxter was knitting by candle-light when
he entered. Tibbie was fast asleep in a neighbouring
room, and Sandy had ascended to his loft
He did not sleep, however, and he strained his
ears to hear what the deep bass voice of his father
was saying on his return from his walk.

Jean,' he heard him say, ' it'll never do in this
world. Sir Thomas '11 never consent to me setting'
up my son in a position like Mr Hac. The boy
must learn to harrow a field and thick a rick, as

I have done. It's i^ood enough for me, and it
should be o^ood enough for him.'

That's your auld-fashioned nonsense, Alexander,'
said his wife, letting two or three loops slip in her
irritation, and diving at them with her wire in an
aggravated manner, ' Sir Thomas has nothing todo
with your family, and he's over then up with
his moles to give the things another thocht. • It's
nae business o' Sir Thomas' what comes o' Sandy.
And I can tell you the boy's not such a boy now.
He'll no ask Sir Thomas' leave, or, I may say,
yours or mine either. His mind's set and made
up, and a surgeon Sandy will be. I believe Mr
Hac got the notion into his head from ourson.'


If he's as determined as alp that, he can gang his
ways over the Firth whenever he likes ; Til not
ti-double my head about him. But, Jean, if that
boy starves in an Edinburgh loft — starves o' pure
ambition — then the sin be upon your head, and

not upon mine, his father's, who warned hiiu
against it.'

'Starve!' said the mother. 'Sandy starve, and
twenty dozens o' hens in the yard, and a meal-kist
never empty, and bags o' the best potatoes on the
coast, and nothing but a wee bit journey between
him and his own home ^ You're forgetting
yourself altogether, Alexander Baxter. You might
have more pride in your son, and more confidence
in me, who approves of his going to the college.
You seem to forget that I have a ten-pound note
of my own.'

It took ye seven years to save it.'
Well, that's no matter. It's all the greater pleasure
for me to part with it for so good an object when
it is needed. I wish my son to use the faculties he
has got, and to become a surgeon if he wishes it.
He's none o' the starving' sort, you might know by
this time, if ye serena so much taken up with Sir
Thomas. And let me tell you, Alexander, I've

been missing a hen now and then, and finely I
knew into whose pocket they went, and what
young foxes at the quarries they have Ijeen
feeding ; but I lost neither temper nor patience
with you.'

The grieve looked humiliated. He was responsible
for the brood of foxes at the quarries; they
had to be fed somehow ; and, in the absence of
other varieties, he occasionally pocketed a fowl
when he thought his wife was not looking.

Jean Baxter perceived her advantage at once.
She pressed the subject no more. Her husband
did not deny the delinquency.

You'll make up your mind, then, Alexander,
that Sandy goes to Edinburgh, and that he begins
his studies this winter. Sa' you nothing about it
to Sir Thomas ; you'll find the moles will drive
away any other idea out of his head.'

That's enough, then,' exclaimed the grieve. ' If

he will to Auld Reekie, he maun to Auld Reeking
wash my hands o' the hale thing.

Wise Alexander Baxter said his wife, terminating
the whole discussion.

And Sandy, in his loft, turned over and fell
asleep in a rapture of satisfaction.

AT THE UNIVERSITY GATES

Hac had never been in Edinburgh b}^ himself.
He had often been with a little crowd of Dreofliorn
boys to play cricket in the park at Holyrood, or to
kick a football in Raeburn Place. On these
occasions he had not distinguished himself much ;
his long hair being too much of a joke for both sides
to permit him to feel as if he were one of them.
They chaffed him as if he were a girl posing as a
boy; and to tell the truth, when he should sometimes
have been fielding a ball at long-on, he was

looking at Holy rood and thinking of Queen Mary,
earning for himself thereby the title of 'butter
fingers.'

His father before sending him to Edinburgh,
had warned him that now he was no longer a
boy but a man, he had better avoid all peculiarities
of person, and recommended him to a barber's
in Princes Street, where they would put a surgical
look upon him, and fit him, in appearance, for
walking the hospitals and working in the laboratories
like others.

Now, lad, it's a new life ; take care of your "
self,' said Sir Thomas, as he saw his son's gear
strapped to the carriage ; and Hac, glowing with
the excitement of anticipation, looked out of the
window.

'All riixht, father. I shall get on famously
over there. You have been very good to me.'

Eh ? Eh ? ' cried Sir Thomas, using the ejaculations
which came handiest to him, and looking
VOL. I c

after the carnage — out of which Hac waved
his right arm — with an expression which, for
the surgeon, was almost sentimental.

At Edinburgh, Hac lead his first experience
of a hotel, for he could not oho into lodoincrs till
he had found such as would suit him. Being ina
hotel was very pleasant for him. It was the
first experience he had of being, in a manner.
his own master. Thus, he ordered his own dinner,
and the waiter, who knew where he came from,
spoke to him with a deferential air, as if he were
an authority ; and after dinner he pointed to a
room and said, ' Smoking room, sir so that Hac
beofan to think, at his time of life, he ouojlit to
cultivate a cigar.

Accordingly, the first time he went out to
ths, street he bought a handsome cigar-case and
filled it with cigars, and made himself exceedingly
ill with one of them, while he rang several bells
in Queen Street to inquire about rooms.

At last he had a pair of rooms pointed out to
him in the middle of Queen Street, the windows
looking over the descending gardens and towards
the Firth of Forth, and these he took without
bargaining for. The landlady evidently took a
liking to the lad at once, as he did to her, though
she was a hard, angular woman, with bushy eyebrows
and a screwed mouth.

The rooms are thirty shillings a week,' she
said, as Hac looked them over, and Hac said,
All right ! '

Then she went out, and it seemed to Hac
that she stood at the door for a few seconds,
without moving, after which she came in and
said,

Oh, sir, I beg your pardon, I've made a mistake
of five shillings about the rooms. It's a beautiful
view, and my husband is a bank messenger, and
the door of a safe shut on his right hand and has

disabled him. Thirty-five shillings I should have
said, a week.'

All right ! ' said Hac, as if she were conferring
a favour on him by increasing the price. ' I am
living at the Imperial just now. To-morrow I
will bring in my things.'

And when will you take your breakfast, sir ? '

Let me see,' said Hac, leaning up against the
mantelpiece and looking at the picture on the
opposite wall, ' what a disagreeable old buffer that
is in the gown and bands 1 I shall have to take
him down. I could never be at ease in a room
where he was hanging.'

Oh, sir, that is the clergyman who married me
and Mr Ramsay. It's considered a very fine likeness.'


And this awfully scraggy creature over the
mantelpiece, with the pink nose, and the yellow
knot of ribbon at her breast. I couldn't live in
the same room with them.'



Mrs Ramsay went out into the passage again ;
she stood for fully a minute ; then she returned,
and looking mournfully at the pictures, she said,

They have always been very much admired, sir ;
and my husband says that if they are to be taken
down, two pounds a week would be little enough
for the rooms.'

All right ! ' answered Hac, ' let it be two pounds,
then, on condition that the pictures are taken
down.'

The first week to be paid in advance,' said
Mrs Ramsay ; and Hac handed her a couple of
sovereigns out of his vest pocket ; the reward of
which was instantaneous, as Hac heard her
proclaiming to somebody that at last she had
o-ot a gentleman for a looser. As there was no
response to the assertion, it is probable that
Mrs Ramsay shouted the remark in at an empty
door.

Then about your dinner, sir — when will you
dine ?'

When I come home from college. Are you
a good cook ?'

'There's not a better at a chop or steak in
all Edinburgh.'

All right ! ' said Hac. ' I like the rooms, and
as I'm to be here four years, I hope you will
keep them in nice order for me. I like everything
about me to be beautiful ; it makes me
miserable if everything is not '

In apple-pie order,' interpolated the landlady,
chiming the sovereigns against each other.

'And now I'm off to matriculate.'

Hac had a great deal to see in the metropolis.
The windows of the booksellers and the print-sellers
where a delight to him, and he stopped
here, there, and everywhere on his way up to
college.

A crowd round one window attracted special

I

attention. The window contained photographs
of all the professors, with their names under
them. Some of them he had heard of at his
father's. Sir Thomas discussed them with more
frankness than admiration. Several of them he
had seen mimicked at Dreghorn by one of the
senior masters. As he looked at them now,
however, he felt that a professor was a kind of
human beinoj who was not to be laughed at.
On the contrary, as the crowd dissipated, and
he stood alone, gazing in at their townley heads
and tragic expressions of face, he felt that the
universe was behind them. Everything that
was known these men knew. He felt as if the
Faculty were a kind of worshipful Olympus,
and he entered the shop to buy his own
professors for the year*.

It was at the University gates, however, that
Hac really lead the assurance that he was a
person of no small consideration.

HACO THE DREAMER

Leading into a massive covered court were
stone steps, and about five and twenty members
of the University stood upon them. Hac
^ observed that they had their hats more or
less on one side of their heads, and some of them
were sucking the heads of canes, while they
smiled or jeered, as the fancy took them, at
persons who were not members of the University,
outside.

His position as a student he realised with
high satisfaction, as half-a-dozen men with bills
crowded together to put them into his hand. On
the whole, as he turned round on the steps and
gazed with his neighbours at the crowd in the
street, he thought it was well to be where he
was. It was not long, however, before he
received a hint that the life was a little rough,
for a crowd of fifty students suddenly swept
down the steps, carrying out into the street
the loungers with the sticks. As for Hac, he

was pushed right across a thoroughfare, and
only brought up at a bookseller's window, where
it pleased him to see several large works on
the 'The Eye,' with his father's name to them.

Back he went to the gates, and this time he
entered the lofty quadrangle with the statue at
the end of it and the class-room doors running
round it, and the library windows out of which
crowds of students were looking at the carriages
of their teachers.

Hilloo, Spens!' Hac heard himself addressed,
and looking, saw the dux of Dreghorn, who a
couple of years ago had come to college and carried
off prizes. ' What classes are you taking ? '

Chemistry and anatomy,' said Hac. ' I've
been looking the calendars, Christie : What an
awful swell you are ! You must be quite a rich
fellow, with all your bursaries ! And how many
medals have you now {'

Oh, only five,' said Christie, much gratified,

putting his arm into Hac's, and walking lira
twice round the quadrangle. I say, Spens, all the
fellows are looking at you ; you must really
cut your hair. You look like an old picture or
something of that sort. A first year's student
can't afford to be peculiar, you know.'

There's a student with his hair all over his
shoulders !'

Oh, he can afford to do it. He's been seven
years at college, and preaches like Old Boots. I
heard him at Greyfriars one day. By Jove,
he did roar and go on I He's a tremendous
favourite, and can do anything. He knows far
more theology than those who have taught him
oh, any amount more ! '

He must be a big swell,' said Hac. ' But I
mean to wear my hair just as I like. It's nobody's
business but mine. They may laugh if they like.'

Well, they will laugh. But let s go into the
library, up these broad steps. That's the chief

librarian, standing on the top step. He's a very
oblioinof fellow, and knows a lot about the
fifteenth century But, by the way, what on
earth made you think of being a doctor ? Ita
humbugging sort of profession.'

I thought I might as well be that as anything
else said Hac, while his friend pushed aside
the glass doors, and, with an air of superior
experience, ushered him into a tall ante-room,
where books were given out, and into a vast
hall, where books were lent for reference. A
great murmur went up from the leather-covered
desks, and there was a constant coming and going
of students with slips, getting out dictionaries,
books of plates, and what not.

I say, what a row ! ' remarked Hac. ' Do
you mean to tell me they study here .? How cana
man read, and know what he's reading, when
there's so much talk ? '

It isn't like this always. This noise is only

HACO THE DREAMER

because fellows haven't settled down yet to work.
At the beginning of the session it's always like
that. Nobody can do anything for a day or
two. Do you see that big fellow with the
whiskers ? He's very nearly an advocate. Another
year, and he'll be done, and be walking
up and down Parliament House. He's got all
the law class prizes.'

'What's he doing with the note-book?'

Oh, he's beating up names for the new Lord
Rector — the election comes off at the end of the
month. By the way, who are you voting for ? '

I didn't think of anybody. Who's the best
fellow ? '

There's three of them. None of them are
favourites of mine. I would have some Oxford
scholar, if I were to have my way. Most of
them go for lawyers or politicians.'

I say, you fellow with the long hair, who
are you voting for ? ' asked the tall man with

the note-book, over the heads of a little knot
of students, who were deep in a discussion as
to whether it was really a conclusive argument
that they existed because they thought they
existed.

Say Tweedledum,' prompted Christie.

And Hac called out :

Tweedledum, probably.'

Ah, you're too smart to live,' said the canvasser,
rushing off to another first year, and booking him,
because of the honour he felt in being asked to be
booked.

Hac stood for some time at the window with
his friend, and had all the celebrities in the room
pointed out to him. Such a one had corrected
the Latin professor on a minute point about the
subjunctive mood one day, and had been told,
in a torrent of Morayshire Scotch, that he was
the sanguinary son of a gun. Such another had
been a summer in Germany, and knew philology

too well. It was hardly fair to other competitors,
for anybody who had been at Germany would,
of course, know roots. A third was a fellow who,
according to his own account, ' never stewed,'
but who was as yellow as a frog, all the same,
and always stood high in examinations. A fourth
was a cad, who cut pages out of books and took
them in with him to competitions. And so on,
and so on, till Hac was put in possession of the
leading luminaries of the room.

If you like, then,' said Christie, ' I'll oho with
you and matriculate.'

Whereupon Hac purchased his ticket and
became one of the three thousand.

SANDY S FIRST DAY

Sandy Baxter had been told by Dominie Dunn
that if he went to Salisbury Street (a block of
houses fronting' the cross, which hand[ over Edinburgh
to the west of Arthur's Seat) he would be
likely to find lodgings suited to his means. And
to Salisbury Street Sandy went direct, on arriving
by train from Binkie Mains. On the whole, the
district seemed to him the dirtiest he had seen in
town; but once he had mounted a stair in Salisbury
Street and knocked at a door which seemed to

belong to a window where a paper with ' Lodgings'
on it hun^'- out, he found the houses not so forbidding
as they looked.

Once inside, he was shown a room which commanded
a long view of the crags, with a recess off
it in which there was a box-bed, and the landlady
offered it to him for four shillings a week.

It's a grain place for a student,' said the landlady,
surveying the ribbed rocks and the picturesque
red dots, which, to the gaze of a telescope,
would have come out soldiers. 'There's a sixpence
on the room for the view. I have a policeman
neebor tae ye ; he pays four an' sixpence. Certe,
ye'll hae tae behave yersel', or he'll tak' ye up.'

Sandy was not long in settling about his room.
He would bring' a sack and a chest in the evening:,
he said, for, his father being; a farmer across the
Firth, he took some things with him to eat.

*I'll be real glad to see anything off a fair,'
said the landlady ; and the lad walked up the hill

to Nicolson Street, and behind the University
found the extra-mural school, where he had been
advised to become a pupil.

It was an old house, of a rambling, heavy description,
which had once belonged to a Lord
Provost, and which had been bought by half-a-dozen
doctors, who were allowed to form themselves
into a ' Medical School.'

Sandy's appearance at the porch of the school
woke up a hall-porter, who, with a medal on his
breast and a stick in his hand, gazed at him with
astonishment when he asked when the classes
would be opened.

'When the students come to attend them,' he
said, motioning Sandy into a waiting-room, which
had been constructed for the use of students
during rainy weather. Thereupon the stick
thumped along a passage, and Sandy heard the
porter announce, with an unaccountably surprised

excitement :

VOL. 1 D

HACO THE DREAMER

A student ! a student ! Sure's death, gentlemen,
a student ! He came in the noo. He's in the
waiting-room.'

For goodness' sake, sergeant,' a voice said,
don't look so astonished. What like is he ?
Bring him in — bring him in at once. Gentlemen,
the extra-mural is founded at last. I believe
we will run the University out of existence.'

Sandy was obsequiously shown through the
passage to the room where the extra-mural
doctors were standing.

There were three of them, with something of
the tragic expression on their faces which Hac
had seen in the shop photographs, as if knowledge
had a crushing and depressing effect.

You want to attend the extra-mural ? ' asked
one of them, warming himself at the fire in a
favourite backward attitude. ' You will take
chemistry, of course ? ' he added, as a colleague,
looking at Sandy, hastily said.



'You will begin your course of anatomy, upstairs,
at once, with me.'

I shall have much pleasure in seeing you at
my lectures on physiology,' said a third man.

And Sandy felt as if he were the means of
conferring a great boon upon them, as, indeed, ina
manner, he was; for the extra-mural had not
yet got itself properly asserted in the face of the
world. It was young and experimental, and
people were shy of it ; and it was in that way
that Sandy Baxter was fortunate enough to
secure to his own tuition a whole staff of first-class
teachers, a whole college system, and the
resources of an entire house, for nobody joined
except himself that session.

There were, indeed, half-a-dozen ladies anxious
to become doctors who applied ; but Sandy was
informed that the house would have had to
shut up altogether if it took them in. They
were not, therefore, admitted.

I iddadV

The enthusiasm of the house for lecturing
was such, however, that Sandy had no sooner
joined than he was ordered to take his seat ina
class-room, and knowledge began to be poured
into him on the first day of his arrival.

After lecture he went down to Nicolson
Street again, and found out the hospital — a
vast institution, hidden from view by a slope
in the ground and intervening houses. It was
late afternoon then, and all the surgeons had
rolled away in their carriages to collect guineas
at different ' arts ' of the town.

There were no students in the corridors, and
Sandy wandered on alone for a considerable
time, meeting an occasional nurse with a basket
of bandages, or seeing a door open upon a
house-surgeon's room, where the house-surgeon
was lying on his back on his sofa, reading.

He had gone up several broad stairs, and
peeped behind screens into different wards,

where the patients were sitting up with newspapers
in their hands, and gone down, as he
thought, to the cellars, when he saw a tall
fio-ure rush out of a side room, making gestures
of despair.

'It's Mr Hac,' said Sandy. 'There's something
wrongs with him.'

Something was, certainly, wrong ; for Hac
after rushing to one end of the passage, fled
back in Sandy's direction, waving a towel.

What's the matter ? ' called out Sandy ; and
Hac, stopping as he fled past him, called out,

I've killed a man ! I've killed a man ! He's
dead ! He is in there. And I have done it. I
did it just now by mistake.'

Sandy ran into the open door, followed by
Hac. There was a cool, bullet-headed youth
standing over a prostrate figure on a table ; the
figure had ceased to breathe, and as Sandy came

up to the table, timidly followed by Hac, the
youth said,

I never saw such a duffer ! Here's a fellow
fell off a tramway-ear and broke his back, and
Crum isn't in, and we had to administer
chloroform, and when my back was turned this
fellow stuffed the towel down the man's throat.
He's as dead as a door-nail now. There'll bea
nice row about this. You told me you were
a son of Sir Thomas Spens, and, of course, I
thought you knew better how to hold a
chloroform towel than to cover the nose and
mouth with it. No, you needn't listen at his
breast. I see you're a green hand too. The
man's gone. By Jove, I believe you'll get ten
years for it, though his back was broken, and
he would have died at any rate.'

Hac stood ringing his hands ; all the blood
had forsaken his face ; he looked the picture of
young agony.



Oh, I can't stay here and look at him ; I
never saw death before. It's awful, I killed
him! I killed him! Oh! Oh! Oh!' And, with
his hands at his eyes, to which no tears came,
Hac went out into the broad subterranean
corridor, and tragically paced backwards and
forwards, without knowing what he was about.

As he walked, a little female figure, clad in a
sister of mercy's robe, with a cross at her throat,
made her appearance at the end of the passage.
She looked at Hac out of a pair of soft, dovelike
eyes, and judged that he must be in pain.
She came near him as he rung his hands, and,
looking up at him, in the gentlest voice, she said,

You will tell me what the matter is ? '

Hac looked at the gentle face, and the
dove-like eyes, and smooth brown hair, and
stopped his pacing. He did not need to look
twice to know that he might speak freely to
the wandering angel of the corridors.

I have killed a man. I am a murderer,'
said Hac, his voice shaking with agitation, ashe
set off again to wring his hands.

I am Lady Mary Haj^ I am a nursing
sister. The head nurse pointed you out to mein
the children's ward. You are Hac Spens.
What has happened i '

Hac repeated what he said before, and rushed
desperately to the room where the motionless
patient lay along the table.

Sandy was arguing in a pertinacious voice with
the bullet-headed youth, pointing out to him asa
surmise that it was probable the man was dead
before the chloroform was applied : to which the
youth was responding that, ' He'd better teach his
grandmother to suck eggs.'

The Lady Mary at that moment showed her
little figure at the door, and with the tenderest
accents possible, asked,

He is dead, then ? '

Yes, he is said the bullet-head, irritated by-sandy's
argument ; ' and this fellow has killed
him. Crum will be off his head with indignation.
It'll perhaps get into the papers, and I believe
there'll be a trial. His relatives '11 make a jolly
row. This duffer stuffed the chloroform towel
down his throat.'

Alas ! he is, poor man, I fear, quite dead,' said
Lady Mary, lifting the rigid arm which hung over
the table, and feeling the wrist for signs of a pulse.

There was no pulse. The blood had ceased to
flow, the heart to beat, and the girl, leaning over
the table, closed the eyes reverently.

He is dead,' she said to the house-surgeon, who
entered at that moment.

Oh, I daresay,' said the new arrival. ' I saw
when he came in he couldn't hold out five minutes.'

This fellow killed him,' repeated the bullet-head.

How can you be so cruel ? ' asked Lady Mary

indignantly, as she looked from Hac to the deadman.


How can he be such an ass ? ' asked the house-surgeon.
'You'll be plucked in your clinical if
you make mistakes like that. Thorl)urn, this
man was dead before the chloroform touched
him.'

Hac, however, did not hear the comforting
intelligence. He was vacantly moaning about
the corridors when the house-surgeon gave his
opinion, and it was only when Lady Mary, coming
out of the room, touched him on the arm and
told him what had been said, that he began to
experience a little relief. The agony of the death,
however, had been so terrible to him that he
could not readily recover himself.

Come with me,' said Lady Mary, seeing that
it was impossible just then to console him, 'round
this corner to the extreme end of the passage,
where the head nurse has her room.'

Mrs Blake, this is Sir Thomas Spens' son. I
told you I had seen him in the children's ward

Ah ! ' said Mrs Blake, ' you have been at an
operation, surely. How ill you look ! But all
the great surgeons have fainted at their first.
You will be a great surgeon.'

'I don't think I ever shall,' said Hac, who
was now quieted by the quiet voices. ' I don't
believe I shall ever forget the look on that man's
face as long as I live. How can I become a
surgeon with blood on my hands ? '

And he shi veered like an aspen leaf.

'You take it too seriously, though,' said Mrs
Blake. ' What was it ? ' she asked of the Lady
Mary, in a lower voice. .

A mistake with chloroform,' whispered the
Lady Mary. ' I am afraid the man is dead.'

And the head nurse rose hurriedly and went
out of the room.

You will make yourself a patient instead of

a physician, if you do not consent to look at
the matter with our eyes said Lady Mar^^, standing
near Hac, and speaking to him with an air
of concern. ' You should accept the house-surgeon's
opinion ; he knows better than Mr Thor-burn,
who, I am afraid, though he has been
much about the hospital, is a poor judge, having
been "plucked" at least seven times. You
shouldn't mind what a man of that sort says.
He really doesn't know. And he is so disappointed
that I think he, perhaps, is a little
malicious.'

It has fairly thrown me off my balance,' said
Hac, stretching himself on a sofa, and feeling,
as the Lady Mary talked, that his nerves were
being assailed by a kind of music.

You will soon recover and get accustomed
to all sorts of scenes. At first I was terribly
taken aback. I am getting, not used to them,
you know, for that would take away all pity,

but used to them enough not to waste my 
allowing myself to become hysterical. Why
should one come to an hospital at all if one is
not able to help ? '

You must be very brave to face it,' said
Hac, looking at her white hands, and the abounding
pity of her lips, and the quiet tenderness of
her glance. 'You cannot need to do it. The
sister of the Earl of Strawfield is not compelled
to nurse.'

'There is a stronger compulsion than money
said the Lady Mary. ' I was called to the work
and I have accepted it. You will like it, too,
presently.'

I will like what you like,' said Hac, not
quite realizing what he had said.

You will like it because it is the noblest
work which is left us to do,' she said ; and her
dove-like eyes darkened on him, and she was
smiling like that when Mrs Blake came back.

She had seen nothing of the dead man, and
concluded that he must have been carried to
the post mortem room, though he had only risen
and walked out of the hospital, arm in arm, with
Thorburn.

Black-mail

Hac did not go back to the hospital for a week,
so that the dressership which Dr Crum had given
him was filled up. He could not go back to face
the terrible incident which had occurred ; it was
all he could do to summon up courage to go to
the University. He went there, however, and
one of the first men he saw on the steps was
Thorburn.

Hac would have avoided Jim if possible, for
he smelt of stale ale, and his hands were dirty

and his collar frayed. Though he was only a
young man, too, he had some grey hairs in his
head, which gave him anything but a venerable
appearance. But Thorburn was not to be avoided.
He looked at Hac trying to go up the steps
without noticing him, and called out,

'I say. Leeks, Crum '11 give you it when he
catches you. He's had to tell any amount of lies
to screen you from the rage of the relatives.'

Hac's hair did not hang about his shoulders
like leeks, as Thorburn hinted ; rather, it rippled
in a natural wave of brown gold ; but it pleased
Thorburn to be irritating, and, seeing Hac make
off without turning, he put his pipe in his pocket
and followed him into the quadrangle. Thorburn
was one of the students dio had hung about the
University for eight years without passing an
examination. Nobody knew exactly where he
came from, but his face suggested a Creole origin,

for it was of a dusky hue, and the chief feature in
it was the white of the eye.

Look here, youngster,' said Thorburn, following
at his heels, ' d'ye hear what I say to you ? The
widow of that dead man came to me this morning,
and I had to give her a sovereign to keep the life
in her two brats.'

Hac turned at once, and trying to overcome his
first disgust, he said, holding out his hand,

It was very generous of you. Here are a
couple of sovereigns : give her one some time again.
You must tell me her address. I shall call and do
what I can for them.'

Thorburn took the money with so greedy a

gesture that Hac ought to have seen or suspected

that something was wrong. He had as yet, however,

no knowledge of meanness of that particular kind ;

so it did not occur to him. He bade Thorburn

Good-day, and went up the steps to the library

again. There he saw Christie hard at work
VOL. I E

behind a mythological dictionary, a pair of
lexicons, and a Greek text; hut when Hac came
up to him, he seemed quite glad to have a respite
leant back from his book, clasped his hands
behind his head, and said,

Well, Spens old fellow, how are you getting on ?
You have joined your classes, I suppose ? '

Yes. I'm in chemistry and anatomy. Do you
know, I fancy I shall hate medicine, somehow.'

I think it is a humbugging profession,' said
Christie. ' I don't know how you ever thought of
going into it. Why, you used to write poems and
sketches in the School Magazine. Pretty good
they were, too, if I recollect right. You had one
poem, I remember, on a bit of ivy in your window.
It was sweetly pretty. Fancy a doctor going
about with thanes in his head ! though, by the
way, old Garth did it.'

And Doctor John Brown,' said Hac.

And Oliver Wendell Holmes,' added Christie.

Hang it, yes, when you come to think of it, there's
a number of them have gone for writing. If I
were you, Hac, I wouldn't go on with drugs if I
didn't like it. Write to your father, and say you
hate the whole thing — you hate the sight of the
bones ; you hate the smell of the dissecting room ;
you hate the hospital tragedies.'

Hac started and glanced at his friend.

You don't know my father, if you think I am
at liberty to change my mind like that. He never
alters an opinion of his own, once he has formed it.
I doubt if he would ever speak to me if I were to
give it up now. I must go on ; but I do envy you
with your old-world poetry, and your middle-age
romances, and your modern philosophies.'

And Hac sighed and turned away to ask out a
book. When he got back to Queen Street in the
evening, what was his surprise to find Thorburn,
a little tipsy, on a chair in his room, waiting for
him.

If there was anything Hac hated, it was the
sisfht of a human beings in that condition. He
would go round a square to avoid the spectacle of a
reeling man. Thorburn was not so bad as that;

o

but he was decidedly tipsy, as he rose to hold out
his hand to Hac, who looked at him and began to
feel a little sick.

'How did you happen to find me out here?' he
asked, with some of the vehemence of his father's
manner on him.

'Spens,' said the student, rolling his white
eyeballs, 'you trust to me. I'll see you through.
I'll not let them touch you. I'll stand by you
through thick and thin, hot and cold. Any fellow
might have made the mistake, you know. Withall
my experience, I might have made it myself,
though I know as much about chloroform as old
Crum.'

Hac did not reply; but when ho went to his bedroom
to prepare for his dinner, he noticed that he

was very miserable in expression compared to
what he used to be. It was so different from what
he had anticipated. At the very outset a dreadful
tragedy, and this dusky roundhead in the other
room no mean part of it, with his offers of friendship
! The tipsy creature ! Hac felt that he hated
him, and he seemed to feel the smell of him,
though there was a door and stout wall between
them.

I'll see you through with it ; don't you be
afraid,' he beo^an attain, as Hac came out to his
solitary meal. ' You trust to me.'

How did you find me out ? ' Hac asked again.

From your name and address in the wards, of
course. But I'll see you through it. Don't you be
afraid.'

Hac's dinners in Queen Street were very unlike
what he had been used to at Binkie Manor. The
only variety he had was a change from chops
underdone to steak overdone, or vice versa, though

Mrs Ramsay made great flourishes of trumpets
aljout his meals, and always explained them into
magnificence. She had a capacity for explaining
everything; even a rank a^rg at breakfast she
airily dismissed with the remark, ' Oh, it is a pudding
egg' after which Hac was expected to devour
it in silence.

I can't offer you any dinner,' said Hac, ' it's
such a poor affair. Besides, I am very likely keeping
you. In fact. Good-bye, Mr Thorburn.'

Thorburn answered by pushing a chair to the
table and sitting down.

It isn't much of a dinner, certainly,' he remarked,
amiable. ' In rooms like these I thought
you would have had a joint and a bit of fish and
some wine. They're as swell rooms as I ever
saw a student have.'

'There is some wine in there,' said Hac, ina
distant way, pointing to a sideboard. ' But

somehow it doesn't seem so good as when I used
to get a glass of it with father.'

I'm rather a judge of wine, ' said Thorburn '
let me see it ; ' and the wine being produced, he
helped himself largely.

Been changed at ness,' he said, winking over
his tumbler. ' Landlady — you understand. Scoffed
your old wine, and put in tenpenny from round
the corner. I know their ways. You trust tome.
I'll see you through.'

'It is a base suspicion, Mr Thorburn. I have
no reason to think my landlady would do anything
of the sort. She is an excellent and attentive
woman. I hope you won't repeat that.'

By Jove ! I never heard a fellow praise his
landlady before. You'll get over that. I've had
hundreds of them since I came to Edinburgh,
and I never knew one of them who wasn't a
drunken thief.'

'You have had great experience,' said Hac,

enduring what he could not get rid of, ' Why
haven't you got your degree in all these years ?
Lady Mary told me you hadn't graduated.'

'You mean she told you I've been plucked. I
want to be friendly to you, Hac Spens, and I
would advise you to have as little to do with
Mary Hay as you can. I know for a fact that
her brother, the Earl of Strawfield, has cut up
rough about her becoming a nursing sister, and
when a man in his position won't speak to his
own sister, you take my word, she's a pretty bad
lot. She pretends to be precious kind to the
patients, and all that, and they toady her because
she's connected with a high family ; but I know
better. She's no good. And speak you to her
as little as you like.'

'She is very gentle and beautiful,' said Hac,
pushing aside the wine, which seemed all of a
sudden to have become unpalatable to him.

Ho ! ho ! ho ! ' laughed Thorburn, to whom



the inferior quality of the wine was no drawback
to drinking it. ' That's all you know. Wait
till you have had my experience. But you ask
me why I haven't graduated. It's nothing but
the spite of the professors. A professor is nothing
if he isn't spiteful. You wait. If a professor
thinks he sees a fellow who is cleverer than
himself, that's a good reason why he should
pluck him. Now look at me ; I admit it — I am
the best plucked man in the Edinburgh University.
I haven't passed a single medical examination ;
but I glory in it. They won't let me through
because they're afraid of me.'

Why should they be afraid of you ? '
Because they know I'm no quack ; that I
understand my business ; that I can pick out
symptoms and prescribe with the best of them.
I can do all the operations they can do. Why,
bless you, I think nothing of extracting an eye,
of rifling; a skull, or '

Hac took the wine and replaced it in the
sideboard. Thorhurn's eyes followed it with an
expression of disgust.

But I'll bring 'em to their senses. I know a
fellow in the Channel Islands who can give
degrees quite as good as theirs ; and blowed if
I don't get a doctor of divinity degree and a
doctor of medicine degree and put some herbs
in a window, and practise in spite of them.'

Thorburn looked loathsome at that moment to
Hac. He had never seen any one he disliked
so much. He another bell to bring[ in the
landlady ; perhaps the diversion would suggest
to him that he had better go. But it did not ;
and Hac, turning round suddenly on him from
the window, found, to his unspeakable disgust,
that he was leering in a knowingly in the
direction of the sideboard.

After the landlady was p-one, he came back
to the subject of Hac's sovereigns.

Spens, I say, old fellow, I've stayed too long.
I only wanted to say to you that you'll have
to come down with some more dust for that
poor, bereaved family. I'll keep my hand on
it, you know, and see you through, I won't
see you rounded on, that I won't. But if you could
fork out, say, five pounds to-night, I think I could
see you through.'

As a fly may feel in the thick web of a bloated
spider, so felt Hac at that moment. The course
he might have taken lay open before him. He
might have gone to Dr Crum and asked his advice ;
and that once taken, he would have been no more
troubled by Thorburn. But there was a sensitivity
about the lad which made him anticipate criticism
with painful foreboding. Then he did not see his
way through the difficulty. If, as he believed, he
had deprived a family of its bread-winner, was he
not entitled to do what he could for the survivors (
Had his father been a less brusque and a more

sympathetic man, lie would have wi-bitten him for
his advice, and all would have been well. As it
was, he saw nothing before him but trouble ; and
this malignant sot who asked him for money
.seemed the only present means of bringing him
out of it.

Then, for the first time, it occurred to him how
curious a circumstance it was that Sandy Baxter
should have appeared to him so suddenly in the
corridor of the hospital. If he could but see Sandy
now and confront this fellow with him ? He would
write to Binkie Mains and ask about him. Sandy
had some mysterious intention of coming to
Edinburgh — he mio^ht be in it now.

I can't give you five, but here arc three. That
makes five pounds that you have had from me today,'
said Hac to the waiting student.

When he had one, Hac wrote a letter to Tibbie
Baxter, to ask her about her brother, and where he
lived if he happened to be in Edinburgh.

THE Nursing SISTER

Lady Mary Hay, sister of the Earl of Strawfield,
was only eighteen years of age; but people who
think a great deal for and about others sometimes
contract a wistfulness of expression which
gives them an older look.

It was so with Lady Mary; her Quaker-like
appearance and her pretty affectation of subdued
colours in dressings grave her an additional air of
experience which weighted her with more years
than she had really seen. Though she was so

young, however, she was not without views of
her own ; and it was true enough, as Thrum
had informed Hac, that she had adopted a course
which the Earl of Strawfield much resented. Being
the sister of an earl seemed to that personage
career enough for any modest girl, and being his
sister, a very brilliant career. Nor need it have
been without its attractions. Strawfield Twas one
of the stateliest houses on the Firth of Forth.
Its grounds were laid out in all the perfection
of bosky vales, which sloped towards little bays
of orlitterinsf shine. There was extensive woodland
round it, and the riding-paths on the estate
led among moss-covered bridges and down leafy
avenues, where a quiet spirit like Lady Mary's
might have had a reasonable enjoyment of life,
as, indeed, she had, until her brother married,
and his countess, an ardent sportswoman, began
to make Strawfield uninhabitable. Lady Mary
had old-fashioned ideas ; she thought, for example,



that loading and tiring a gun was not a womanly
exercise, and she declined to share it with her
sister-in-law's friends when Strawfield was filled
with them. Nor would she handle a fishing rod,
nor tumble in a net, in order to strengthen her
limbs. Her tastes were unaccountably different;
and when the earl, who was only a few years
her senior, said to her, ' Mary, you are a born
nun : I don't know what to do about you,' she
replied,

'I think, Strawfield, you are right. I have
something of the nun in my nature. When dear
Doctor Crum was here, the other day, looking
at the shot hand of one of your friends, I arranged
with him to become assistant to his head nurse
at the hospital, where I mean to make myself
useful for a time.'

The earl was unbounded. He looked at his
sister as if she were wildly out of her mind. He
suggested that she was kicking over the traces

with a vengeance, and that he was unspeakably
ashamed. Crum should never enter Strawfield
aofain. He was an old idiot ; he was a meddlesome
quack. She must abandon this 'fad.' As
if there weren't plenty of females to do that sort
of work for proper wages ! He was, indeed,
exceedingly angry, and for the first time he
realized that under the unlike demeanour of
Lady Mary there was a vein of persistence
amounting to obstinacy. For all she answered
him was,

'Strawfield, I have written to my lawyer, who
has taken a house in Great King Street for me.
I have arranged everything as I wish it to be.
You need not trouble about me any more.'

And no further words of the earl affected her.
She went to Edinburgh, and spent her days at
the hospital, and had been doing so for some
months when Hac first met her.

The meeting with Hac had impressed Lady

Mary very much. The incident was so unusual,
and he had been so powerfully affected by the
student's charge about the chloroform, and he
had been so simple when she administered verbal
consolation to him, that she looked out for him
each day in the children's ward where she worked.
But he did not come that week. She met him,
however, one day, at a bookseller's (Hac had
got carte blanche from his father to buy all the
books he wanted, and he was doing it), and,
standing behind one of the well-filled shelves,
she said to him,

I had expected to see you again at the hospital.
Why do you not come ? Dr Crum is displeased,
and has been obliged to find a substitute for
you.'

I have been so put about that I hate the

sight of the hospital gates. But I am beginning

to recover myself a little, and I am buying all

the books in chemistry and anatomy that have
VOL I F

ever been published. I think that will be a good
way to know everything that is required. Besides,
I've never had a library, and it feels very nice to
be surrounded by books in one's own room.'

And you think that the best plan ? ' asked Lady
Mary. 'I should have thought it better to getup
what was in the handbooks of the classes
first of all ; then I should become a collector
after that.'

*0h, no; [collecting is certainly the best plan.
There is something so repulsive about a small
handbook, and something so encouraij:inof about
large, old books, all one's own. I shall study
far better, knowing that everything is within
reach of my arm. Besides, what's the use of
a man's father giving him leave to buy what he
requires if he doesn't take advantage of it ? But
I am not confining myself to scientific books. I
am buying all these — a complete set of the English
poets.'

I should think they would be very expensive.'

I didn't think of that,' said Hac, airily. ' Of
course it all goes down to Sir Thomas Spens'
account.'

Lady Mary smiled, and said,

'You have not been to any of my evenings.
Would you care to come ? Or, stay, have you
views about who may or may not study medicine ?
Do you think, for example, it is quite wrong and
unnatural for us to addict ourselves to science,
and to ask for degrees ? '

'I have never thought of it.'

Then come to my next evening. Every Friday
I receive my friends, and I shall be very glad
indeed to see you ; and if Sir Thomas ever comes
over, bring him.'

He wouldn't leave his moles on any account ;
but I shall be delighted to come. I have so many
letters to deliver to people 1 don't care about

that it will be a positive joy to me to come to
a house because I like it.'

You are very good to say so. Next Friday
evening then. But don't let your work stop
because of — of the ' — —

'Yes, I know said Hac, his brow darkening
as he thought of that rigid figure on the table,
and Lady Mary closing its eyes.

The interval between that meeting and Lady
Mary's evening was spent without incident.

The demands of the bereaved family were not
further pressed by Thorburn, and Hac did not
see him even on the steps of the University.
He began to settle down, therefore, to his work
in his own way. This was Hac's way .• He
went to his lectures, and diligently took notes
of chemical symbols and anatomical phrases, and
for a night or two he committed them to memory,
intending to be abreast of his lectures when the
examinations came. Then it occurred to him

that, as the first class-examinations were not to
be held till Christmas, he need not hurry. After
all, a few evenings would serve his purpose quite
well, for had he not the most retentive memory
at Dreghorn ? That left him free to read what
and when he liked, and as it was Hac's nature, as
soon as he felt he was compelled to do one thing,
ardently to wish to do something else, he read
much that had nothing to do with bones and
elements.

His room had quite altered its appearance.
Mrs Ramsay had no objection to his running
up shelves, and to his filling them with books.
She took down her dusty ecclesiastical portraits,
too, and let him hang up ideal figures from the
Greek Cosmology, and, altogether, his walls produced
a very elegant and scholarly effect.

Notwithstanding that he was persecuted with
the idea of the dead man in the hospital, ho
.sometimes spent some very tranquil hours in his

i-oom, when the wind was whistling up from
the Firth and shaking his windows ; for having
recovered his first disagreeable sensations on
smoking a cigar, he now smoked with ease and
comfort, and enjoyed seeing himself surrounded
with a nimbus of blue reek of his own creating.
He had no doubt whatever, as he put out his
hand to wave the smoke aside, that now, indeed
he was a man.

On Friday evening he went down to Great
King Street to Lady Mary's, and very carefully
he dressed himself before he went. Hac liked
nothing better than to feel himself well dressed.
He believed that as the flowers put on colours
to their petals, men and women should adorn
themselves with an eye to beautiful effect. There
was thus quite a little nuirnuir when his tall
figure appeared at the door of the drawing-room —
his double-breasted satin vest cut to exhibit a
liberal display of linen, his cutis well shown

under the sleeves of his coat, a large signet-ring
upon the third finger of his right hand.

Lady Mary's room had not filled up for the
evening, so that Hac was not overlooked. On
the contrary, Lady Mary — appearing, Hac
thought, the embodiment of daintiness — approached
and drew him into a little crowd
where old Dr Crum was harano;uinor. He was,
as yet, the only man in the room, and he was
talking in a vehement monologue about that
obnoxious close corporation, the University
which was so blind.

So blind, sir, ' he said, looking at Hac from
the tips of his curls to the points of his boots
that not [even Sir Thomas Spens, of Binkie
Manor, could give it a seeing pair of eyes. '

Dr Crum didn't give Hac an opportunity of
answering his pretty compliment to his father's
skill, but began to expatiate, so that Hac had an
opportunity of looking round the circle.

With the exception (jf Lady Mary, he was not
much prepossessed by the ladies who were
present. For one things, they nearly all wore their
hair short, and some of them even parted it at the
rifjht or left side, c^ivini^ them an air of masculine
decision which was not a little alarming.

Their mouths, too, were, perhaps, more firm
than affectionate, and some of them struck Hac
as if they had never had mothers. Their talk was
all of sciences, about which they were full of
enthusiasm. They were the little brigade of
ladies who were besieging the University and
demanding to be educated. Hac had no
objections to them in the world, but he wished
they had all been as pretty as Lady Mary.

He sat for an hour, listening mostly, and was
just beginning to feel the evening pall a little,
when an eccentric voice was heard outside the
•Irawinsj-room, shouting,

Bonnie Mary Hay, it's a holiday to me. '

And the voice was presently followed by a lithe
active figure, having a face which wore the
expression of a bird, and hair which hung like
Hac's own, all over the shoulders.

I am so glad you are making a holiday of it,
professor, ' said Lady Mary, advancing to him and
brinp^inor him in to the inner circle, which was nota
little pleased at any diversion which should give
somebody else than Dr Crum an innings.

When Professor Stewart came into a room,
however, it was no use any other man attempting
to speak. His voice filled the drawing-room at
once.

You're all of a clan here,' he shouted. ' That's
a mistake, a great mistake. Crum, can you sing a
Scotch song ?'

No ; but you might sing one — a Greek one,'
said Crum, irritated at beinii" bowled over so
summarily by the new arrival.

As a delicate compliment to our hostess, I

propose to sing " Bonnie Mary Hay," ' responded
til (3 professor.

Whereupon he sat down at the piano, turning to
face his auditors for a moment, and to gesticulate
at Lady Mary, who stood smiling at him.

The song was given with much vigour and
precision, and the professor, dancing off his seat
saw Hac leaning against a curtain, looking at
Lady Mary with an unmistakeable glance of
approbation and affection.

'Hilloo!' cried the professor, 'who have we
here ? What's your name ? You have the
courage of your opinions, evidently. Are you
an actor or what ? '

It is Mr Spens,' said Lady Mary ; and the
old professor, dragging him out by the elbow,
had a lonc^ stare into his face.

Very like a poet ; I never missed the face of
a poet in my life. You're a poet, young fellow.
Lady Mary, what does he write ? — eh ? — or



what does he recite ? Spens, Spens, the surgeon's
son, eh ? Well, now, you should know " The
king sits in Dunfermline town." '

I do know it,' said Hac.

Ha ! you're a brick. Recite it this moment,
and let these scientific ladies know that the
microscope and the tweezers don't exhaust the
universe.'

The king sits in Dunfermline town,
Drinking the blue-red wine ;

Oh, whaup shall I get a steely skipper
To sail this ship of mine ?

To Noroway, to Noroway,

To Noroway o'er the farm ;
The king's daughter to Noroway,
It's thou maun take her hame."

And Hac recited the whole ballad. Professor
Stewart bursting; in, now and aefain, with a
repetition of,

I saw the new moon late yestreen."

And surly grew the sea."
Half owe, half owe to Aberdour,
'Tis fifty fathoms deep,
And there lies gude Sir Patrick Spans,
Wi' the Scotch lords at his feet ! "

and such lines as he was peculiarly struck with.
When he left, he embraced Hac, and announced,
abruptly, ' You come to my house on such and
such a night.'

THE APPARITION

Hac left Lady Mary's house with a feeling
of having been much amused, and of having
contributed some amusement in turn. The
recitation of the baltic had been received with
the greatest applause, and the gratification of
the applause was strong upon Hac, as he went
up the steep street in the moonlight towards
his rooms. He felt so exhilarated that, instead
of Sfoinof at once into the house he continued
walking until he came out upon Princes Street.

The rigged mass of rock on which the castle
is perched threw a black shadow across the
intervening valley and the street, but behind
the rock the moon was sailing white among
some drifts of cloud. Otherwise, the sky was
blue as steel, and the air of the evening as cool.

Hac did not min] the passengers on the
street much, the spectacle of the rock filled him
with so much awe ; and he involuntarily let pass
through his mind these farther centuries and
the men which filled them with the clash of
arms on the craggy heights.

He walked all the length of Princes Street,
and ascending the Calton Hill, found the air
as if it blew from icebergs. Yet it was not
unpleasant to him, as he looked over the
shining lights of Leith to the distant shore-line
of Fife, and heard the murmur of the city rise
round him in an ascending wave. It stirred his
pulses so much that he felt the necessity of

getting back to his room to write a poem about
it; and he descended the Calton on the Leith
side, with that view.

Hail ' this, ' Oh ' that, and ' Ye ' the other
thing kept coming to his lips, and he was in a
temporary trance of moonlight, blue air, and
distant sea, when he walked back to Queen
Street with quickened steps.

Not far from his own door an incident occurred
which woke him up.

It was the sight of a limp figure leaning
a railing, with the white moonlight on
its face, or on that side of its face which was
exposed to the light. The neck seemed
dislocated ; but Hac saw enough of it to
stafford back in fright.

It was the dead man of the hospital table !
He could not be mistaken. He knew his head
and arms, and the expression on his white face

was the expression he wore on that fatal
afternoon.

Hac rubbed his eyes and gazed, and pitifully
looked up and down the street, to see if there
were anybody coming to wake him from his
vision.

There was no one coming. He turned, therefore,
slowly from the spectacle, trying to
convince himself that it was an illusion, and
that there was nothing standing there which
corresponded to what he thought he saw. But
before he reached his door he was compelled,
in spite of himself, to look back. The light
of the moon shone still more strongly on the
limp figure. There could be no doubt about
it ; but as he looked he perceived that the
head had rolled round to the other shoulder,
and that the jaw wore a ghastly look of
disconnection.

Yes, there could be no doubt it was the finite

of the hospital table. Hac did not reason
about it. Indeed, he was so overcome with
horror that any possibility of reasoning was
denied him ; and he was not much consoled,
when he had actually got to his door and
turned round, to find that the figure had
vanished, and that there was only a pathway
of light where it had been leaning.

He was so tremulous at the door that he had
to ask the aid of a policeman to open it for
him ; and the policeman, inquiring of him if he
were ill, he said he saw an illusion.

I saw him, too said the policeman. ' It's a
spring-heel. I'll get a baud o' him yet.'

But Hac had gone in and shut his door. Upstairs
he found two letters from Binkie. One of
them was from his father. He opened it vacantly,
and found.

Dear Hac, — I am pleased you are settled comfortably,
Keep your letters within reasonable
VOL. I G

bounds of length, for my time is fully occupied.
Cultivate some good companions — hard-working
fellows — and follow up your letters of introduction.
Don't over-read yourself, but at least read enough
to enable you to stand respectably in the class lists.
You may come over at Christmas, if you like ; but
that is as you find it convenient. You are now a
man, and have to act a man's part. — Your father,

Thomas Spens.'

He opened the second letter. It was from Tibbie
Baxter. There was a whiff of the garden about it.
As he raised it to read, two little flowers of ' constancy,'
as Hac called them, dropped on the table.
Flowers of constancy at that season of the year !
They must have anticipated their own spring-time
by several winter months. But why should Tibbie
Baxter put bluebells into his letter ? Hac read :

'Dear Mr Hac Spens, — My brother, Sandy, is in
Edinburgh. He is shy, and does not like to say

what he is doing; but I may say that he is
studying to be a doctor, and he lives at No. 19
Salisbury Street, looking out on the Craigs, and if
you go to see him, you may be sure he will be glad
enough. I was on the shore to-day, and saw your
yacht lying quite snug in the lee of the shingle-bank.
At the root of a beech tree I found these
bluebells blowing, and I thought how you always
liked to wear flowers and might be glad to have
them. My mother bids me to say, dear Mr Hac
Spens, that she hopes you are not over-working
yourself, and that everybody at Binkie will be
anxious to see you come over looking well. — Your
obedient, humble servant to command,

Tibbie Baxter.'

Hac picked up the bluebells, which had blown out
of season, and though they were a little crushed he
carefully placed them in a wineglass of water and
put them on the mantelpiece. As he went into his

bedroom to get the glass, the sight of his own face
rather frightened him. He was ghastly, and his
hand shook, and he turned fearfully from his table,
certain that the apparition was behind him. The
poem he had come to his rooms with had vanished
from his mind. It was quite wiped out, and
instead of it was substituted that image of the
rolling head and dislocated jaw. He felt very
lonely and miserable that night, and was grateful
to Mrs Ramsay for putting her head in at the door
and asking him if there was anything she could do
for him.

Dear me, Mr Spens ! are you ill, sir ? ' she asked,
advancing' into the room when she had scrutinized
his white face.

I don't know, ' said Hac. ' I think I must be ;
but I'll be all right when I've had a cigar.'

'Let me make a little negus for you, sir,' said
the landlady, concluding that the youth had overlooked
himself.

No thank you.'

You'll have to take good care of jour health,
sir. You mustn't read so much. I had a gentleman,
sir, here for two years, and he would do
nothing' but read read read — at his breakfast, at his
dinner, at his supper, in his bed ; and he grew till
he was just like wax in the face, and he went into
a decline, and they had to send him away to
Australia, and he died.'

Mrs Ramsay wiped her eyes with the corner
of her apron, and though Hac couldn't see any
tears, he regarded her as a kind-hearted woman,
who was talking for his good.

I shan't read myself into my grave ; don't be
afraid, Mrs Ramsay. But do you believe in
ghosts ? I am sure I saw a ghost to-night. I
think it's that makes you think I'm ill.'

Oh, such nonsense, sir !'

I don't believe in ghosts a bit,' said Hac, ' but
I have certainly seen one.'

He said it with such simple sincerity of belief
that his landlady stared at him.

What was it like, sir ?'

I would rather not describe it.'

It wasn't your " wraith," sir ? Mi* Spens you're
not very well, and you should speak to one of
your professors or write to Sir Thomas, your
father.'

Then, afraid that she might frighten the lucrative
youth away, she added,

But at your time o' life, sir, many's the vision a
young man sees. I'll give you a fowl to your
dinner tomorrow ; It'll be a change off what
you've been getting — a fowl nicely stuffed and
roasted. It's your stomach, sir, I believe.'

Hac looked wearily at her, but she stood, arms
akimbo, scrutinizing him.

I wouldn't say there wasn't such a thing as a
ghost, sir; not I, indeed. When Mr Ramsay's
father died in the country, that same night there

came a chap, chap, chapping at the bedpost. And
I said, " Father, stop that noise with your elbow."
He was asleep — Mr Ramsay — and the chap, chap,
chapping wakened him. " What's that ? " he said,
rising on his elbow ; and the noise went on all
the same. •* Was it not you, father ?" I said. " No,"
he answered, " it wasn't me ! It's in the bedpost ! "
and there, sure enough, chap, chap, chapping, it
went on, " Strike a light this moment, and read a
verse out o' the bible," said I. And he struck a
light, and that moment the chapping stopped.
And what d'ye think ? Next day we found that
Mr Ramsay's father had died at half-past eleven
o'clock the night before, to a minute, when the
chap, chap, chapping was going on. And there's
no explanation for that. That must have been the
old man's ghost. It never came back after that
night.'

I hope my ghost may be as obliging,' said Hac
with a ghastly effort at cheerfulness.

AN EXPLOSION

Hac was greatly troubled in his dreams that
night by the ghastly vision which had wagged its
head at him at the lamp-post. Usually, when
lie dreamt at Binkie, the tissue of his vision
was sunlight and blue sky, the blue Firth, and
white sails passing over it ; but in his bed in
Queen Street, and in the black solitude of the midnight,
the class skeleton, on whose bony arm
the professor of anatomy leant lovingly, as he
pointed out the puzzle of its mechanism, came

down from the case on which it swung and
visited him in his sleep.

'I am he whom you have murdered said the
skeleton, dislocating its jaw, and lifting a
menacing; right arm. ' This is what I have come
to through you — hano-ins^ in a case for you to
stare at; to have a clay pipe put into my lips,
mocking my helplessness, whenever the professor's
back is turned. Come with me, young fellow ;
open that ante-room door, and spend the night
in the dissecting-room. These motionless heaps
upon the tables — what do you think of them ?
No, no, young fellow ; no holding of your nose.
Many a rosy youth has been here before you.
But they come in the daylight, in bands of fifty,
and they talk and laugh. You will have to come
alone at midnight, with me to guide you, and
ponder over the spectacle. Oh, you don't like it,
don't you ? No ; they are not very communicative,
these ones. They took all the spirit out of them

when they were alive, before they came here at
all, and they are glad enough to pay no attention
to anything now. It is different with me. I
was robbed of ni}- life in full career by you,
Hac Spens, and some of it still adheres to these
dry bones, and as long as there is left in my
frame a memory of the injustice you have done
me, I will come for you, and you will have to
accompany me, whether 3'ou like it or not, to
this jargon-tomb. No, no ; don't you think
that by passing on a few guineas by the hand
of that good man, Roger Thorburn, to my poor
wife and infants, that you have made amends
for your behaviour. I will take the liberty,
my noble young baronet, of walking arm-in-arm
with you whenever I choose, and of passing you
out for your recklessness.'

I'm awfully sorry,' said Hac, trembling in
his sleep, but unable to move a limb. ' But it

wasn't me who put the clay pipe m your jaws
and a janitor's hat on your head.'

You must bear the brunt of all their misdeeds,'
said the skeleton ; ' it matters not a finger-nail
what they do. I've tried it on with some of
them. But they won't see me. They sleep,
and eat, and laugh, and talk, all the same. They
won't consort with a skeleton on any terms. You
must ; you can't help yourself. And I advise
you to see that I'm treated with more respect
in that class-room, or you'll have some nice
moonlight walks to take in my company.'

I think it's rather mean of you,' moaned
Hac, to take advantage of me in that way
You know it all happened by a mistake. Roger
Thorburn understands that very well. And I'm
sure, if it would please you, I would get my
father to settle an annuity on Mrs Skeleton
and the little Skeletons.'

Ho ! ho ! ho ! ' laughed the skeleton, clattering

round the room, ' an annuity, indeed ! You
think you can get rid of me by an annuity ! I
tell you what it is, young fellow, if you mention

a word of this to Sir Thomas, it's' and the

skeleton drew a bone across its own throat, as if
it were a fiddle which could play itself.

Then Hac awakened, and sat up and struck a
light, and wondered whether he was really quite
right in his head, that such persecuting images
should pursue him. He was afraid to go asleep
again ; but, Ashen he did sleep, he was untroubled
by any more dreams.

On the following evenings however, he was
determined to find out Sandy Baxter, and have
a long talk about mutual experiences. He was
sorry that Sandy had not already' found him out,
for he would like to have him coming to his
rooms. As yet he had not been lonely or homesick,
but he felt the necessity of exhibiting his

independent style of life to some other person
than the self-invited Thorburn.

In the darkness of the Saturday night it was
not so very easy to find Salisbury Street. Hac
had to find his way through a labyrinth of
narrow streets, in which there was more
provision made for the passage of gutter than
of human beings. The houses were high and
the windows narrow. Up above, people could
almost shake hands with each other across the
street ; but, to judge from the skirling overhead,
they seemed to prefer to abuse each other, and,
from the occasional fall of an onion or a potato
at Hac's feet, they apparently enjoyed pelting
each other with some of their Saturday night's
provisions. Altogether, it was rather an exciting
scene, lit up by the lurid red glare of flickering
naphtha lamps, hung over street barrows, from
which men with husky throats distributed their
goods, while they roared a recommendation.

Hac had a ' great many enquiries to make
before he reached Sandy's place and number ;
hut, once arrived, he was shown to Sandy's
door with much alacrity by the landlady. He
thought the dark passage very like a dispensary,
or a laboratory, or some of those places where
bottles are gathered together in great quantities.
The fumes were coming from Sandy's door ; and,
before entering, Hac heard Sandy's slow, precise,
dogmatic voice explaining to some one :

You see, at this point I'll have to be very
careful. I told jo\i that water is formed by
the union of a gas called hydrogen with a gas
called oxygen.'

It's a mystery to me to understand how you
get a baud o' your gases, besides give them
names. Things that you cannot feel, much less
see — puffs o' wind, and you give them as big a
name as if they had the bulk o' an elephant.'

Look out, now,' sa d Sandy ; and as Hac

opened the door, a great explosion shook the
room and made the windows rattle.

A paper pock's nothing to that,' said the other
speaker.

Mr Baxter, Mr Baxter, ye'll hae us blown
over Arthur's Seat athegither ! ' said the landlady,
following Hac into the room in alarm ; while
Sandy, the only perfectly cool one, kept his hand
upon a battery, and said,

Oh, that's nothing to speak of at all ! '

Nothing ! ' said Hac. ' The one o'clock gun
isn't a patch upon it ! Our chemistry professor
would give his head to make an explosion like that.
He's always trying to make them, and he goes on
for a quarter-of-an-hour at a time preparing the
minds of his class for one ; and then we all get
our fingers in our ears — and bang ! it's only a
whiff, with no sound in it at all. I'm awfully glad
to see you, Sandy.'

The landlady, assured there was no danger in

the recent noise, went back to her kitchen, and
Sandy introduced Hac to a tall man in a policeman's
uniform.

I never met a bobby in private life before said
Hac, ' I may say it has been the dream of my
youth to be introduced to a bobby. D'ye remember
the fellow at Binkie village, Sandy, one dark night,
when we were sliding down beside the pump, who
chased me for a quarter-of-a-mile ? Heavens ! it
was an awful sensation. I'll never forget, as long
as I live, slipping in the middle of the road, and
that giant looming over me, and taking out a notebook
and putting in my name and asking who the
other fellow was, and I said I wasn't sure, and he
cried, " Wait till I get a baud o' him," and walked
off.'

The policeman, who seemed not at all to object
to being called a 'bobby,' smiled graciously,
and said,

He would just be warming' himself wi' the run.'

"5

'I never thought of that said Hac. ' What a
lot of life you must see ! '

Oh, 3'es, we see plenty o' life in my beat, and
death, too.'

I would like to come round with you and see
some of ifc,' remarked Hac. ' To-night, when I
was coming down here, I could hardly get along
for the mob shoving each other. Why are so many
of them in rags, and so many of them drunk ? '

It beats me to say,' said the policeman. ' But
I'll have to leave you.'

He went away, and Hac looked round Sandy's
room. After his own extensive chambers, it
seemed mean and choking enough. He asked if he
might not open the window, and Sandy rushed to
anticipate him.

*Upon my word that is a view !' said Hac, leaning[
out and seeing the ribbed rocks.

'I have it for sixpence a week,' said Sandy,
putting away his electrical apparatus and his

VOL. I H

retorts into a box ; ' But I don't find much time to
look at it, and I've never been up yet to see the
view from the crags.'

'I've been up twice,' said Hac, still at the
window. ' It makes you feel like a bird being up
so high. I wrote a description of it to father,
but I don't think he cared much for it. He doesn't
allude to it in his letters, anyhow.'

He's so busy,' said Sandy.

Yes ; that's just what he said. And how are
you getting on, Sandy ? I've been longing to see
you since that day at the hospital. I'm an awfully
unfortunate fellow ! D'you know, I'm pursued
night and day by the vision of the poor man. He
won't leave me. He came to me in my sleep in the
character of the class skeleton and threatens me
with all sorts of penalties. It's all very well to
laugh, but it's just as real to me as sitting here
talking to you. I sometimes think that's life and
this is dreaming : the one makes more impression

on me than the other. Do you think many people
know about it and talk about it, Sandy ? '

The only fellow who would talk about it would
be the house-surgeon, and he went away to India
next day. You know, a hospital is a large town,
and things of that sort are soon forgotten.'

Thorburn hasn't foro-often it. I don't like that

o

fellow at all. I'm afraid he's a cad, and yet he was
very good to the poor man's wife and children.
I've been thinking I shall lay aside a third of my
allowance to keep them out of trouble. Thorburn
says he was a very respectable man, and earned
good wages.'

He didn't seem respectable to me,' said Sandy,
and I think it's hard lines to have to pay for an
accident that I'm very sure killed the man before
the chloroform touched him.'

But I'm such a coward,' said Hac. ' I'd
rather pay than have a row made about it.
Father gives me three hundred a year, you know,

and I can afford to give some of it away on charitable
objects.'

'Three hundred a year!' said Sandy, looking at
Hac as if he were Croesus himself. ' What a sum
of money ! ' he continued, stirring his fire, with a
frugal eye upon one large flame, which seemed
inclined to burn a bit of coke rather rapidly.

Now tell me about yourself, Sandy ; how you
are getting on, and how you like it, and what you
think of Edinburgh, and whether you think being
a doctor is such fun.'

I think I've done very well to begin with,' said
Sandy. ' Mr Dunn gave me letters '

The dominie ^ '

Yes ; he gave me three letters to schoolmasters
in town, and I have five hours' teaching a day. It
keeps me from taking the hospital this year, which
is a pity ; but I have the extra-mural all to myself.
I get ten shillings a month for one^hour, fifteen
shillings a luonth for another hour, and a pound a

month for each of the three other hours a day. Of
course I have to run about a good deal — all over
Edinburgh, in fact — and the tramway fares come
to something; but I believe I'll be able to take
my mother's ten-pound note back to her at the
end of the session.'

How can you work with all that teaching ? '
Work ! ' said Sandy, passing his hand through
his hair, while his eyes sparkled with pleasure.
The running about helps me to sit down and
get through at a rush. Then, you know, it's a
ffreat assistance to have a whole college to one's self,
with distinguished professors. I have everything
absolutely everything — lectures, laboratories,
dissecting-room — all to myself. I know as a
fact, now, at the University there are not
subjects for all the applicants.'

Yes, thank Heaven ! ' said Hac, ' I shall have
to wait till the end of the session before I can get
a subject. I see you are as cold-blooded as the rest

of them, Sandy. They go into the place as if it
were a butcher's shop.'

No, ' said Sandy, seriously. ' It cost me a great
deal to begin the work. I had one day's serious
illness ; then I thought of the future, and now I
like it — I positively like it. And they're complimenting
me on the neatness of my fingers. Underbill
says I'll be a demonstrator yet, if I hold on as
I'm doing. I've really been very lackey.'

Well, Sandy, it might come into your head to
call upon a fellow, that's what I think. And I
wish you would drop " Mr Hac." Call me Spens,
as other fellows do. You're the clearest man of
the whole lot. You'll be a great surgeon, and no
mistake about that. I see it in your face — yes, and
richly you'll deserve to be it, too, working like a
trooper. If I had all your knocking about, teaching,
I should think I had done very well, without
any more work. Have a cigar, Sandy ? '

Hac took out his case and gave Sandy a cigar.

The latter had never smoked a cigar, though he
had experimented with an ebony clay which
belonged to his father. He took the cio-ar and lit
it at the wrong end, and smoked it uncomfortably ;
while Hac, with a superior air of familiarity
with tobacco went on to say that he really felt
rather jolly in Sandy's company, and he wasn't
sure that he wouldn't settle down to his chemistry
and anatomy, without thinking too much of the
incident at the hospital.

ELECTING THE LORD RECTOR

The day arrived for voting a Lord Rector to the
University. Christie called at Hac's rooms in the
morning ; expressed his satisfaction at their size and
appearance; said Sir Thomas must allow him a
huge quantity of ' tin ' to buy such books as he had
collected on his shelves ; and walked arm-in-arm
with him to the gates.

When we have appointed him, ' asked Hac,
consequentially, ' what does he do ? '

I don't know that he does anything. He's a

sort of figure-head to the ship, you know. I don't
know anything else he does, except make one
speech. You were very sensible not to give your
name to a canvasser.'

'I wish I felt as excited about it as that big
fellow running round the quadrangle and picking
out the first years, and following them to the classroom
door.'

'Yes, he's pretty excited about it. You know,
if he gets his man in, he'll have a letter from
him in his own handwriting ; it will appear in
the newspapers ; then, when the installation comes
he'll stand up among the professors and invest him
in his robes, and one half of the fellows will ' hoot '
and 'boo' and another half will cheer and go on.'

I hope his man won't get in. '

As yet there were not many students in the
quadrangle ; but as the morning advanced they
were perceptibly increased, and a constant stream

of them passed out and in the rooms where the
professors sat taking the poll.

Christie seemed to know and to be known by
a great many of the students in all the faculties,
and Hac felt quite honoured by being in his
company. He was able to tell little stories about
them, too, which Hac listened to with interest,
as they walked round and round.

By the way,' said Christie, as Thorburn passed
and familiarly tipped off Hac's hat with his
stick, 'you seem to be rather intimate with
that fellow. I don't understand it. I've seen
him drunk in the middle of the day. He's never
out of Rutherford's. He sat next me one day
in the library and went on telling the nastiest
stories to the fellows all about. He knows too
much. He borrowed half-a-crown before he
left that day, and I heard the man who gave
it him say, " Oh, he's married ; he needs it for
his kids." " D'ye mean to say he's married ? " I

asked. " Yes," said the fellow ; " he married his
landlady's daughter, and his father has stopped
his allowance. He knows a lot about life."
That's how they talk, Spens, some of these men.
They think, if a fellow goes into Rutherford's
and swings beer in the middle of the day, and
falls asleep at his lecture afterwards, that he
knows life. That's why I object to your corner
of the college. You are all so knowing and
have such a superior air about you. You haven't
got it yet, Spens. I hope you won't cultivate it.
Life, indeed ! What do you know about the
singing birds of the literary groves, and the
philosophers, with their glorious puzzles about
the universe ? Come in with me some day and
hear old Stewart give a lecture on myths, or
history, or something, and see him gather his
cloak about him. If I had my way, I would
make every man in that corner go through old
Stewart's hands before he was allowed to put

his nose in at a dissecting-room door. They
should learn life first of all from the metaphysician,
the historian, the critic, the poet, the
star-gazer ; then they might put on their aprons
and profess to know life.'

I say, Christie, you speak quite like an old
fellow.'

My father's living with me just now,' said
Christie — ' that's his view, too. Now, let's go
together and vote for our man.'

They went in single file to Professor Stewart's
room, who, though he took the poll, had his views
about the Lord Rector, and, whenever a vote was
given, exclaimed, ' Pshaw ! ' ' What ! ' ' Very good ! '
according: to the candidate's name. ' I thou<dit
we could depend upon you, Christie. Spens,
Spens, ' surly grew the sea,' who are you voting
for ? That's right, man. Don't have any
professional narrowness; vote for the best
fellow. I expect to sec you both at my house

to hear a little drama enacted. Don't wait for
cards, but come. Next man — next man. Pshaw !
Very good ! '

By midday the first tickets of announcement
were held over the balconies looking into the

o

quadrangle, and it was seen that the couple of
hours' polling was in favour of the lawyer, who
led by some hundreds, the politician and the
poet running each other close, though the poet
was lowest on the list. It was something to
be in the quadrangle at that moment.

There are various kinds of cheering — • from
the dusty rumble of elderly feet at a political
meeting, to the invincible shout of a kilted
division charging bayonets on a foreign slope.

The cheer of the quadrangle is different from
either; it is a kind of choral riot of sound, an
ebullition of aimless spontaneity which for freshness
and stir cannot be matched. Before Hac
knew what he was about, he was caught by an

eddy of a few hundred students, and swept
down the steps into the body of the quadrangle.

Instinctively the three parties collected together,
and in three masses began to dispute
possession of the quadrangle. The voters of the
poet were evidently in a miserable minority from
the beofinninof. The voters of the lawyer and
the politician were led by half-a-dozen lads with
sticks, which rattled and smashed with the most
ominous and menacing sound. The poets were
not at first inclined to do anything but shout
for their man ; but the lawyers and politicians,
thrusting their elbows into their sides, tilting
their hats off, driving at them like rams, soon
put them on the defensive at Brewster's statue,
towards the inner end of the quadrangle.

It was then seen how few there were of them,
and as a few tried to disengage themselves to
go and vote, they were limed in upon the
museum steps, and the balcony, the moving mass

below and round about them making derisive
noises.

Hac's tall figure and shining hair were
conspicuous among the battered minority, and
presently he became the mark for an archery
whose arrows were more miscellaneous than
cleanly. A party of first years, who were
unfavourable to the poet for a Lord Rector,
formed themselves into a voluntary reserve of
powder-monkeys, and passed in a continuous
stream to neighbouring shops, where they filled
their hats with peas, beans, and barley ; made up
paper bags of meal, flower, and bran ; bought
stale buns, scones, baps ; carried oflT strings of
red herrings, dry fish of various descriptions,
and anything which seemed a promising and
offensive enough missile.

Jammed up in their corner of the quadrangle,
with half-a-dozen rows of bristling sticks in
front of them, the supporters of the poet had

no means of defending themselves when they
were put under fire.

The peas were amusing enough, falling around
them like the pellets of an Arctic shower driven
by a fierce north wind. Nobody minded them.
But dien it came to red herrings flopping
against their hats and tumbling: from the side
of the statue, and when the walls round them
were whitened with flour-bags and the air
became thick with the dust of the mill, it
became too uncomfortable to bear.

Hac was the centre for a good many of the
missiles, and was gradually transformed from his
fine aspect into the cowering image of an old
Father Christmas ; for the bags of flour broke allover
him, and made him white from top to toe.
Even that he would have stood patiently ; but
when a red herring, aimed with diabolical
precision, hit him between the eyes and left him
blinking painfully, with an odour of stale brine

^ettmcr into his nostrils, he felt that it was time to
stand it no longer. The shot was greeted with
maniacal shouts of laughter and clatter of sticks,
until, turnings at the statue and facing the
supporters of the poet, Hac called out,

Follow ! charge ! " Up, guards, and at 'em ! " '
There was a little surprise just at first, down in
the quadrangle, at the attitude of the lithe stooping
fellow, with the powdered hair and herring
score across his face, which soon became amazement,
as, sweeping down the steps, with his stick
brandished over his head, he charged into the
politicians and lawyers, closely followed by the
besieged minority. The powder-monkeys from the
rear of the mass darkened the air with groceries,
and made it difficult work for the poet's voters ;
but, by gathering into a close-packed phalanx, and
advancing shoulder to shoulder, they firmly put
down the opposing sticks, cut a way for themselves

through their opponents, and steadily marched to
VOL. I I

HACO THE DREAMER

a position beneath the placard, where Hac, taking
off his hat, led the cheering round to the poet once
more. The minority never seemed so much of a
minority as at that moment, and the quadrangle
soon became alive to the absurdity of its defeat ;
for gathering again in the neighbourhood of the
statue, a great, shouting mass swept down upon
the phalanx with irresistible force, and carried it,
broken and defeated, out of the University gates
into the street.

The street for the poets ! the street for the
poets ! ' was the shout raised inside the gates ; and
the street they got, that busy arena of rushing
cabs, omnibuses, drays, and carriages soon filling
up with the scrambling hundreds. The powder-monkeys
were now in a position to use their
groceries with more effect ; for, being outside the
University, and having no fear of watchful janitors
before their eyes, they hurled their missiles at the
shop windows, at which there was presently' a



great crashing and tinkling of glass. When the
shutters were put up, the powder-monkeys only
aimed a storey higher, and broke windows in the
houses above the shops ; and cabs, omnibuses,
drays, and carriages had to find their way to their
destination by another route.

Hac, pushed out into the street, and to the
outer edffe of the surodno- crowd, had time to look
at himself, and to feel that he was not adorned ashe
would like his friends to see him. All his
theories of beauty were roughly put to flight. He
stood looking from the scrimmage to his whitened
and dishevelled self, and it was only when a grey-headed
lounger in a broad Doric remarked to him
from a shop-door, ' Never heed the dirt, man.
Gang back and put your man at the top o' the
poll. The distill a' wash off,' that he felt it
mattered less than it looked.

During the afternoon the poet's contingent was
thrice chased from the University, and all voting

for a poetical Lord Rector came to an en<l. The
politicians then fell upon the lawyers, and a good
deal of hard mauling was done till the poll was
finally counted and the winning ticket hung out.

The lawyer has it 1 The lawyer has it ! ' rang
round the quadrangle ; and amidst cheers, counter
cheers, groceries, and waving of sticks, Hac found
himself again in the street.

He looked for Christie, but could not find him ;
but at the corner of a street leading to the Infirmary
he saw Lady Mary Hay's carriage standing.
Lady Mary was looking anxiously out of it, and
seeing him, she called him to her.

Hac,' she said, ' is it all over ? '

Yes ; the lawyer has won. He is hundreds and
hundreds above the poet ! The politician was not
far behind.*

Who did you vote for, Hac ? '

For the poet.'

Did you vote in a bakehouse ? '



No ; this is the stuff they threw about.'

You won't like to go down the Bridges in that
condition. I will drive you down.'

No, thanks, Lady Mary ; I would be too utterly
disreputable. I will take a cab, I think.'

Hac, there is again a vacancy in our ward. Dr
Crum expects you to take it. You will probably
hear from him about it.'

Good-bye,' said Hac, running off to catch a cab,
leavings the electoral roar of the college behind 

THE Wards

A YOUNG fellow's object, when he is at college., is, or
ought to be, to get a degree ; and if he would have
a degree he must scorn delitjlits and lead laborious
days. He mustn't waken in the morning, and, feeling
the keen edge of the frosty atmosphere, turnover
in bed, saying to himself, ' Oh, it doesn't
matter to-day. I don't need to mind that bone
class. He's o'oino- to demonstrate the hands and
feet to-day. These little bones are contemptibly
easy. I know them already' ' — snore. He shouldn't,
when he is in his class-room, and when the professor

is pounding along, addict himself to sketching
the attitudes of the lecturer, while he wears an
expression on his own face of being deeply engaged
in taking notes. He shouldn't, when he
ought to be attending a lecture, sit in the college
library reading funny stories lent out to him, with
a ' humph ' and a suspicious look, by the attendant
of that department. Because it is not always possible
to tell when a professor will call over his roll,
or ask cards to be taken at the door. And having
called cards in the absence of the student, it is
doubtful whether the student is justified in giving
the janitor a shilling at the door to take his card,
as if he had been inside. No doubt, scores of
fellows do it, and the class-janitor, being an honest
old soldier who has served his country at Balaclava
or Tel-el-Kebir, and who wears a medal, perhaps,
on his breast, for life risked and enemy's blood
spilt, pockets the shilling, and feels that he is
only supplementing an inadequate income.

Yet it is not precisely the way to arrive at the
mystic letters which entitle a man, by-and-bye, to
roll about a town in a carriage, step down at a
score of doors, and with the demeanour of a Lord
Chancellor, feel pulses, call out for paper and ink,
inscribe hieroglyphics, and roll away again. He
shouldn't ; but, as yet, Hac had adopted none of
these current courses, except, perhaps, omitting an
early and chilly bone class, so that he might have
another hour's sleep in the morning. He had not
bribed janitors, or caricatured lecturers, or read
funny stories in the library, when he should have
been elsewhere and more seriously engaged. But
he had allowed himself to be much elsewhere in his
thoughts when the professor was talking. He had
been many a time in the garden at Binkie, looking
out on the chocolate-huc sails of the rushing
as they cleared their way towards the Bass
Rock and beyond ; many a time lying on his back

in his little sloop, with the anchor out, and Sandy
Baxter at the bow, pulling in his lines with
the cry, ' A bite — a bite ; ' sometimes inside the
little parish church, alone in the pew which his
father never frequented, while he exchange-ed
glances with pretty Bell Logan, or watched the
swallows fly up to the eaves.

Ever a dreamer, Hac often lost himself in
memories, when he should have been listening to
the building of the spinal column, or to the
chemical constitution of the atmosphere.

It happened, however, that a great whale had run
himself ashore at a point of the coast not far
distant from Binkie, and the professor had spent
laborious weeks inside him, catching colds and
scorning them, until he had noted the shape of
every bone, and the course of every nerve, and
muscle, and artery ; and as he was continually
alluding to the great whale, Hac was often led

away to scenes which he could not immediately
forsake for the lecture.

Being a dresser in the ward of an infirmary,
however, does not admit of dreaming, and a
couple of mornings after the voting for the
Lord Rector, Hac found a note on his table
from Dr Crum.

For some reason or other,' said the note, ' you
dropped your dressership on the last occasion
you got one. I am led to understand by Lady
Mary Hay that it was an accident. From a
letter I have received from Sir Thomas Spens,
I judge that he wishes you to lee in the wards.
I have made a vacancy for you, and will expect
to see you at work this week.'

Hac had been delighted to avoid the work

o

of the dissecting-room ; he hated the prospect
of assisting at the operating theatre of the
hospital ; but Lady Mary's ward had no terrors
for him. It was currently understood that Dr

Crum made it as easy work for her ladyship as
possible. All the nice little boys, who knew how
to behave themselves under pain, were sent to
the ward where she was. All the little girls
who might be expected to look ' nice ' under
any torture were, by the tacit understanding of
the receiving-room, given to Lady Mary. It was
a ward in which the best behaviour prevailed,
and Hac, being introduced to his work by Lady
Mary, found that notwithstanding his nervousness
at the sio'ht of the bottles, he could do a o-reat
many little offices with instinctive correctness.

What am I to do first ? ' asked Hac of
Lady Mary, as he found her dressed in her nun-like
robes in the ante-room off the ward.

Dr Crum will tell you ; but you will have
to exercise great tact in asking questions. He
comes in often from a serious operation, and he
is apt to explode if he is not approached in the
right way. He has a magnificent, wild temper.

and the kindest of hearts. He is often very
much worried, especially if he meets Dr Dale
ill the passages. Dr Dale, you know — who is
also the best of men — believes in the application
to wounds of a different kind of lotion from that
which Dr Crum would apply. He believes in
germs in the air which have to be killed at
operations by the dissemination of a fine spray.
Dr Crum laughs at the operis, and thinks a
knife and plenty of cold water all that is wanted.
And these noble, self-sacrificing men, who do
more for their fellow-creatures than any of us,
when they meet each other in the passages,
snort like horses, and write about each other asa
shallow and incompetent nincompoop on the
one hand, and as a physiological maniac on the
other. Dr Dale hints that Dr Crum is a
butcher ; and Dr Crum insinuates that Dr Dale
is an undertaker in disguise, who gets a percentage
on his Ah, well, it's very sad. But you had

better not mention Dr Dale in Dr Crum's hearing.
His system is not tolerated in this ward.'

Why do men go on like that ? ' asked Hac.

I suppose because they are not women,' said
Lady Mary, opening her ante-room door and
conducting Hac into the ward.

It was a lofty room, containing twenty beds,
each bed having a small patient at one or other
staofe of convalescence or decline. There was a
little buzz of conversation going on, varied by
a cough in a corner, or a moan, or a little sigh.

When Lady Mary entered, every patient turned,
or tried to turn, his or her head towards her.
She advanced to a table spread with lint, bottles
of Candy's fluid, and what not, Hac following
her.

Now, Hac,' she said, ' your first duty will be
to learn what to do with one of these' — handing
him a bandage.

You see this little hero sitting by the fireside

sucking his thumbs. He luoidd run after cabs
in the street, and of course fell and broke his
left arm, and has to sit here all day. You like
it, do you ? Well, you are a brave little fellow.
And, Hac, you see how his arm is suspended;
you will have to learn how to prepare bandages
like that. And like that,' continued Lady Mary,
leading him to a little crib, where a o-irl wore
a crown of bandages, and to another and another,
where the bandages grasped a limb in serpentine
folds or lay easily on it.

At one of the beds Hac was much taken with
the appearance of a little fellow, who seemed to
be about four years of age. He lay quite silent,
looking up with a heavy, pained expression in
his e^^es, and Hac, glancing at a ticket above
his bed, saw that he was suffering from a scalded
limb. He had been helping himself to a potato
in his mother's kitchen, Lady Mary said, and

lead brought the pot down upon himself and
burnt one of his small legs shockingly,

'You will have to dress him, Hac,' said Lady
Mary ; ' there are no bandages required for him —
only soft dressing and oil. He is doing very
well, poor little man ; but he doesn't feel inclined
to say much.'

What is your name ? ' asked Hac, bending
over him.

'Thorburn,' said the boy, wearily, taking his
hands from beneath a coverlet and rubbing his
eyes.

Thorburn ! ' said Hac, straightening himself,
and looking at the ticket with a feeling of
revulsion for a name which called up so many
disagreeable associations.

Yet the helpless little boy, with his expression
of quiet resignation, touched him, though he
allowed his imagination to run so far away
with him as to think he saw in him a likeness

to that other Thorburn with whom he had
unpleasant dealings.

The more he looked at the boy, the more he
thought he detected a resemblance.

What is your father ? ' he asked.

But the boy only shook his head pitifully,
intimating that he didn't know.

'Do you like toys?' Hac next asked — 'jumping-jacks,
spring-frogs, or horses best i '

He would like, he said, a spring-frog, and if
it jumped as high as the roof, so much the
better.

Then Dr Crum came in, and the next hour was
spent in following him from bed to bed — a crowed
of twenty students peering over each other's
shoulders, and putting into note-books what they
heard him say.

Hac was not able to give much attention to Dr
Crum, because he saw Thorburn enter; and the
burnt child, seeing him at the same time, stretched



out his hands and gave a look of unmistakeable
recognition, which Thorbnrn as unmistakeably
repudiated.

Could it be possible, thought Hac, that this
was a son of Thorburn's ; that he was really-married,
as Christie had said ; and that

A great many new notions were suggested to
him by the situation.

VOL. I

AN EXAMINATION

A WOMAN came next day and carried off the
little boy in a shawl, so that Hac had no further
opportunity of seeing him. He began to like his
dressership, however, and he had not been long in
the ward before he had planned a series of new
pictures for the walls, and introduced quite a
variety of toys. He told Lady Mary that at
Binkie there were hosts of things for which he had
not the slightest use — niggers playing upon drums,
soldiers prancing upon horses, with swords drawn,

india rubber cats which could mew, arks with all
the new beasts which had been discovered since
Noah's time — and Lady Mary said that they
would be a great acquisition to the ward. Accordingly
he sent to the housekeeper at Binkie for
them, and she having consulted Sir Thomas, he
briefly dismissed the subject with a * Toys for the
children — eh ? eh ? Oh, yes, by all means.'

The distribution of them in the ward was
followed by so much crowing and laughter and
holding up for comparison between bed and bed,
that Hac felt he had really done one of the most
meritorious things in his life. It would have been
well for him had he been as successful at his books
as in the impression he made among Lady Mary's
infants, for the first examination for class honours
was coming on, without much preparation for it on
Hac's part. It was not that Hac was constitutionally
indolent. He was really rather busy than
otherwise, but he was busy at the wrong places

and the wrong: time. To be able to sit down at a
class examination, and to be prepared to answer all
the questions a professor puts from the course of
his delivered lectures, it requires a student to read
night by night what he has taken down in his
note-books, besides following the text-books over
the same ground. Now Hac's imagination was so
filled with the unpleasant vision of the skeleton,
that he postponed to the last reading about the
bones of which his invisible tormentor was composed.


The night before the examination Sandy Baxter
came in on him, having the day before had his
class examination at the extra-mural. He had
been told that out of a hundred possible marks
for his paper, he had scored ninety-two in chemistry
and ninety-eight in anatomy, and he was in
great glee over the announcement. Hac shook
hands with him and congratulated him on his

o

success.

Why, Sandy lie said, sorrowfully, ' you will be
going home at the end of the session loaded with
honour, and I shall have been nothing but a
disgrace. I told you father allowed me six
pounds a week. Well, do you know, I am falling
behind terribly. I have been obliged to make an
arrangement with Thorburn to give him a couple
of my six pounds for you know what, and, upon
my word, I don't find the other four much help in
getting through the week. To be sure, Mrs
Ramsay says, " Oh, it doesn't matter falling behind
a little." Only I can tell you I don't like it.'

Hac, if you take my advice, you'll write your
father at once about this, and tell him everything.
He will soon put a stop to Thorburn getting two
of your pounds every week from you. It's a
beastly imposition. I am as sure as I am of my own
life that you didn't kill that fellow on the table.
D'ye know I saw a man awfully like him quite
close to Salisbury Square under a lamp-post. I

went up to him and looked into his face and he
sneaked off

The information did not seem to cheer Hac
much. He only replied,

There are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamed of in your philosophy, Sandy.
I don't believe in ghosts, but I sometimes see them.
I believe the spirit of that poor fellow is knocking
about Edinburgh. For that matter of it, I think
well, I won't say what I think ; but let me
hear what sort of questions they put to you at
the extra-mural. I suppose anatomy there is
just like anatomy here with us — the same kid
of nomenclature and all that.'

Oh, yes, just the same,' said Sandy. ' You
don't keep bones in your room ? I could go
over them better if I had them. I have a set
in my room in a box under my bed.'

Hac shuddered.

You talk, Sandy, as if bones were manufactured
to order for us fellows to demonstrate on.'

So they are ; at least they are polished and
cleaned. They don't offend me. How can you.
understand man at all, if you don't know his
texture ? '

Go on, then, Sandy.' And Sandy, without
the bones, but aided by an expensive volume of
luxurious engravings, handed him by Hac,
demonstrated all he knew in a slow, professional
key.

Sandy,' said Hac, yawning, after half-an-hour
of it, ' you're without exception the ablest
fellow that ever lived.'

Sandy ignored the yawn, and his own
enthusiasm for his subject being thoroughly
roused, he kept on at it for another quarter of
an hour, Hac little by little losing all consciousness
of the subject as he stared into the fire
and imagined himself in his yacht scudding out

of the Firth, with a jib and foresail and a
main-sail bellying to the wind.

Joiner's not a bit better at it than you, Sandy,'
said Hac, realizing suddenly that Sandy had
stopped demonstrating, and that something was
expected of him in reply. 'If you go on like
this, you will be a professor yourself.'

I'll be an assistant, anyhow, in a year or
two,' said Sandy, rubbing his hands with the
glowing satisfaction of knowledge present and
knowledge to come. ' It's splendid,' he said,
bringing his right and left foot together, with
his toe at a mark on the carpet, and leaping
over the seat of a chair.

I can't demonstrate as well as you, Sandy,
but I can fly higher than that,' said Hac,
bringing his toes and heels together in the
same way, and taking a high leap over a
footstool and a pile of books lie had placed
upon the seat. To which Sandy responded by

putting more books on the top of these and
leaping again, with the result that he brought
books, footstool, chair, and self upon the floor
with a thud, which made the substantial furniture
vibrate, and brought Mrs Ramsay in to see what
her lodgers were doing.

Oh, go about your business, Mrs Ramsay.
It's nothing,' said Hac, preparing another leap,
while Sandy rubbed his knees and looked
ruefully at the female in the doorway.

'I'll better lay the cloth,' said Mrs Ramsay,
as Hac leapt over the barrier which had brought
Sandy to the ground.

Hurrah ! ' cried Hac. ' I can do it higher
than you.'

Dear me, Mr Spens ! you're very wild tonight,
sir. You'll have Mr Pain, the solicitor,
up, with the floor shaking above his head. He's
been up here before, I'm sorry to say, and
threatened to take the law of me if I kept so

disorderly a house — he has, indeed. Will I lay
down |a box of sardines, sir, for your supper,
and some of your father's old wine ? '

And the pair sat down to supper, Hac feeling
that he was fully equipped for his examinations
on the morrow. He had not the least doubt ashe
entered the University gates and ascended
the stair to the class-room where the examinations
were to be held, that he would stand at least
as well as Sandy at the extra-mural. For Sandy
had no magnificent volumes of enoTavino^s, had
only a fifth of the time at his disposal to prepare
for examination, and, as Hac knew, had no
mental advantages over himself.

The first college examination was a very solemn
occasion. It always is in the life of a young man
who aspires to be a first-class citizen later on.
Or, if the young man does not look so far ahead as
that, but only thinks of the precious bronze medal
which at the end of the session, reposing in its

morocco case and satin cushion, may become his if
he be persevering, it is still a solemn occasion.
What applause of his domestic circle will he not
have, if the thing in bronze becomes legitimately
his ! How his father, if he have one alive, will
look at the solid reward of merit and dole out his
praise with judicious niggardliness and a flavour
of warning not to be puffed up ! How his mother,
who is sure to be alive, will stand over the precious
token of genius with uplifted hands at a table, and
say, ' Oh, John ! ' ' Oh, Peter ! ' or whatever his
name may be, with a rapture of maternal affection !
How the sisters and little brothers will run among
their friends brooding and divino themselves airs,
and comparing Peter or John's magnificent genius
with the ineffectiveness of poor Donald from the
same parish, who working at the same examinations,
has come back with nothing but a scrap of
paper intimating his regular attendance !

Hac had certain previsions of the glory of the

thing as he ascended to the class-room. He knew
his father would be very glad to hear of a medal.
He felt that Lady Mary's eyes would brighten on
him if he were to take it. He knew that he ought,
as the son of an illustrious surgeon to stand at the
head of his list ; and it Alas with a look of bright
exultation on his face that he took his place in the
class-room waiting for the giving out of the paper
of inquiries. It struck Hac as a curious circumstance
that only about half the class was present.
He had met a student at the gates who had said to
him :

I say, Spens, you are not such a fool as to go to
a class examination ? What good does it do ? A lot
of bother for nothing You're not olio-ed to ^0 toit.
Come away over and get a glass of beer.'

That explained why there were so few in the
room compared to the size of the class. They were
not obliged to be there, unless when conscience
pricked them. Nothing depended on it at professional



examinations for their degrees. It only
mattered so far as the honours for the reading' of
the session were concerned.

Hac felt rather virtuous as he compared himself
with the men outside who would not subject themselves
to examination, and he took up his paper
with a trembling eagerness which should have
been seconded with something else than an instantaneous
feeling of despair. Despair, however, it
was which took possession of him, as he handled
the little pile of bones at his elbow, and the paper
of questions about them which he was asked to
answer. He had, curiously enough, omitted to goto
his bone class just on the days when the hand,
the ear, and the nose, were being explained, and
here were the bones of the hand, the ear, and the
nose, the only bones the professor put questions
about. It was too bad of him, Hac thought. If
he had only asked about the big bones of the leg,
he would have told him, or about the backbone

itself, but these bones ! It was some little consolation
to him to see about a score of men rise at
once from their desks and make pantomimic
gestures with their papers as they went out, without
attempting to answer anything. It was also
consoling to hear their horse-laughter and derision
at the door. Surely the professor must see that he
was putting questions of an absurd sort. But no ;
the professor sat at the foot of the class skeleton
with a look of impenetrable unconcern. They
might, apparently, go or come, write it or leave it,
for all that it concerned him. Hac hated him at
that moment, as he sat chewing the end of his
pencil, glancing from row to row of men similarly
engaged. At least half the competitors he saw were
in the same condition of vacuity with himself.

There were, however, about half-a-dozen white-faced
men, hard at work with their pens, down in
the neighbourhood of the professor. As the
minutes flew by, and their pens increased their



velocity, Hac could not but feel how objectionable
they were ; so eager, so well-informed, so
obviously making for the medal with sure and
swift strides ! There were others in the room who
seemed to be making good papers, too, notably one
student right in front of Hac, whose fino-er-nails
were a very encyclopaedia of information, which, ashe
utilized it, nail after nail, he sucked off. He
was more amusing than the earnest, well-informed
ones, because Hac saw that he did not know much
more than his nails contained, from the way he
turned the whites of his eyes to the ceiling every
now and then. He liked the men less to the riofht
and left of him, who took out diagrams of the ear,
and the hand, and the nose, with the anatomical
names of the different holes and corners in the
bones, and who laboriously copied them on to their
sheets of paper.

'After all,' thought Hac, 'one of these fellows

may get the medal. If so, I shan't care. I
shouldn't have it on these terms.'

But it amused him all the same, even in spite
of himself, when the professor retired to his anteroom
for a little, to see how many of the disgusted
competitors on the back benches chewed their
papers, and, having made them exceedingly pulpy
and disagreeable, addressed them with great precision,
in the form of soft balls, at the indomitable
six who went on writing as if for life.

Altogether, it was not a successful examination
for Hac; for, having sat for an hour his head
between his hands and his elbows on the desk,
wondering how many ghosts there might be
standing round belonging to the fragments he
was expected to describe, he rose suddenly, abandoned
his pens, ink, paper, and questions, and
rushed into the quadrangle.

DESPAIR

Hac had never as yet, out of home-sickness,
gone up to the Mons Meg corner of the Castle,
to see Binkie Manor in the distance. After the
examination, however, he found his way there.
He went up and sat on the parapet of the highest
battery, and looked out over the gardens and
squares, and had a very miserable half-hour, with
nothing in the horizon to comfort him. He
wondered, for a little, if, with all the anxieties
and disappointments which had come to him, it

VOL. I L

would not be well to throw" himself over the crag.
If he shut his eyes, he thought, and delivered
himself into the air, launching himself right down
so as to fall at the foot when a train was running
past, there would then be an end of him.

What between the skeleton, the anxiety, the
examination papers he had not been able to
answer, he began to feel that there was no use
in being alive. Evidently it was a world of
persecution and misfortune, and he was to have
a larger share of it than he had expected. If
he could only be sure that launching himself
into the air would be accompanied by instantaneous
death ! But then it oughtn't. He might only
break a leg, or crack his skull, and linger on
for years a poor incurable, beyond his own father's
skill to heal. Life was better than that.

A soldier, who was oti' duty, presently lounged
round to him where he was sitting, and beofan
to converse. He had been in the castle, he said,

for six months, and hoped to be in it as long
again, for he had been at the wars, and was
rather sick of them.

Been at the wars ! ' said Hac, leaning across
the muzzle of a gun, and looking up at the warrior.
Have you ever killed a man ? '

He was not a very tall soldier, but he had a
moustache which gave such an expression of
ferocity to his face that it seemed altogether
unnecessary to ask whether he had ever killed
anybody. There was a sentry pacing up and
down, and the soldier, when he had paced to
the furthest end of his beat away from them,
leant down and ejaculated, giving a turn of his
wrists and elbows as if he were manipulating
a bayonet,

'Dozens of 'em.'

Don't they lie on your mind ? ' asked Hac.

'No,' said the soldier; 'they lie in the bush
of Kaffir-land, to the best of my knowledge.'

Do they never revisit you in sour sleep ? '

Re-what me in my sleep I Bless you ! they
were niggers — were black chaps, with no souls in
their body to speak of. A black chap hasn't as
much ghost as would carry him this distance. Besides,
ain't I a lodger ? Will you tell me why they
should lie on my mind ? Ain't I paid to kill 'em ? '

And the red lounger twirled the corn or of his
moustache in an argumentative way.

Yes, of course ; but I should have thought that
a man of fine feelings you know, would be rather
sorry, after it was all over, that he had been obliged
to kill other men, even in battle.'

A man of fine feeling might ; but, then, T ain't.
I like killing' 'em. What's tiger-shooting' to it, will
you tell me ? What's a go on the moor to it, will
you oblige me by saying' ? I say to you, sir, that
putting' a bayonet into the vital part of a fellow,
who would put a spear into the vital part of you if
he could, is — ah ! there ain't a sensation in life like

it, not one, as long as it's on you, and you see
everything red all round you — crimson red — fiery
crimson red — spouts and spurts and fountains
of it.'

I have seen it,' said Hac. ' I am studying
medicine. I don't like it.'

Oh, you think you don't like it, but you do.
Haven't I seen 'em at it ? — the surgeons whipping'
off hands and arms and toes and legs, and enjoying'
it, too. Just like we do. It's in us. It's a devouring'
passion. We must have our red hours.'

What a ferocious fellow you are ! ' said Hac,
still leaning on the gun and looking into the
soldier's face.

No, I ain't ; no more than any other sort o'
man. We're all alike ; there's a brute in us all as
bloody as a tiger, and he wants the taste and the
smell of blood.'

Fee-fi-fo-fum,' said Hac, rising. ' I don't believe

you're half such a bloodthirsty fellow as you
say you are.'

Thank ye, sir,' responded the lounger, taking
the price of a quart of beer for his communications,
and walking off as if nothing had occurred.

Hac sat down on the gun again and looked at
the city. His misery came back upon him. As he
looked in the direction of Binkie, he thought with
anguish and trembling what his father would
say to him when he went back, without certificate,
and with a load of trouble on his shoulders. He
believed that he would never speak to him again
in a friendly way. He might cut him off with
that impecunious shilling he had so often heard of,
and what could he do with it ? ' 'List,' a voice
seemed to whisper to him — ' 'list, and go abroad,
and manipulate a bayonet, and come back with a
bushy moustache, a pair of glaring e^xvs, and sumptuous
memories of blood.' There was a little consolation
in the fact that he might go back upon the

army if his father were quite too hard upon him.
It was a something between him and the necessity
of yielding to such a temptation as that of throwing
himself over a cliff. Yes, he might 'list. The
army was always there ; and the army meant
chancre of scene, adventure, a life of unknown
deeds. He was a little grateful to the sanguinary
soldier as he rose and turned to go down the Castle
the Mound, as he crossed to Princes Street,
he overtook a figure, whom, from the back, he
seemed to know. The figure swung from side to
side, and walked with a great width of stride, and
he was accompanied by Sandy Baxter. When
Hac overtook him, he saw that it was Sandy
Baxter's father.

The first sensation he had was of warm gratitude
for the sight of his homely face, and he
shook hands with him cordially; and it amused
him to see the father's astonishment when Sandy
said, ' How are you, Spens ? '

He had a good many questions to ask the grieve
about Binkie, all of which were answered with
more or less ignorance, when an embarrassing
moment occurred. The grieve opened a paper bag,
took out a mutton pie, still steaming, which he
proceeded to eat as they sauntered along Princes
Street.

At that hour of the day Princes Street is the
Champs Ulysses, or Rotten Row, or Phoenix Park,
where fashion is airing itself on wheels. The difference
is that in Princes Street fashion airs itself
on its legs, so that dandiacal bodies have more
time to stare at each other and to note what they
are severally wearing and how they are wearing it.
And here was the good grieve, with his mutton
pie in his hand, biting away at it, and letting
drops of gravy fall upon the pavement, to the
great delight of a couple of street dogs, who,
with protruding tongues, followed close at his back.

I must confess it to you, Mr Hac, that I loud

a mutton pie a great relish to a visit to the
metropolis he said, finishing one and extracting
another, while he held out the bag to Sandy
and Hac in turn.

Hac felt very uncomfortable, and suggested
that it might be as well to go inside an eating
house. But no, Mr Baxter would have no eating
house. A pie in the open air had especial charms
of its own for him.

What a boarding-schools there are now ! ' he
ejaculated, as a row of twenty fresh-faced misses,
tittering as they went, looked from the discomfited
face of Hac to the gradually-diminishing pie.

'That would be a professor you bowed to just
now,' he continued, as Dr Crum passed at a rapid
pace and took in the pie with a corner of his
glance.

'Yes, that was a professor,' said Hac, despairingly,
as he saw that the bag contained still another
savoury article.

They're a laughing, hearty kind of people,'
remarked the grieve, unconscious of his own
peculiar appearance being the cause of merriment
in others.

Why, here is Lady Mary Hay,' said Hac,
coming out of her carriage.'

How do you do, Hac ? ' said Lady May,
looking at the grieve and the pie, and remembering
Sandy Baxter's face from the day of the chloroform
operation, and saying, ' I remember your
friend, Hac.'

This is his father. He is having mutton
pie as he goes along. Lady Mary Hay — Mr
Baxter.'

Od's sake, the Earl of Strawfield's sister ! ' said
the grieve, looking at Sandy touching his hat
to her without a symptom of bashfulness, and
dropping his pie, to the great delight of the
dogs, who bolted with it in halves, and to the
relief of Hac.

This is my father's steward said Hac.

Ah replied Lady Mary ' You have not
forgotten Professor Stewart's evening ? He is
bringing out a play in his drawing-room. You
will be sure to come and see it ? '

Certain to said Hac, letting her pass to a
shop-door.

Ay, man,' said the grieve, ' and that's the
Earl o' Strawfield's sister ! Od's sake, I do not
know what the world's coming' to. They tykes
hae run away wi' my pie.'

ROGER THORBURN AT HOME

The spider to whom Hac Spens had so
unwittingly become a fly lived inside a ' close,'
otherwise a narrow, dark passage leading from
the Canongate. At the mouth of the close there
was usually a crowd of round-jawed men, with
white moleskin jackets and tattered trousers,
talking to harridans in scarlet shawls.

Entering the passage, a window was discernible
with bottles of coloured water in it, and bunches
of dried grass, and handfuls of senna leaves.

Behind the bottles, upon a cross slab of glass,
there were emblazoned the words, ' Roger
Thorburn, LL.D., M.D.'

Thorburn had promoted himself since we last
saw him in Hac's rooms. He had executed his
threat, and, b}^ an expenditure of a few pounds,
had obtained from Jersey a couple of degrees
duly qualifying him to practise his profession
wherever he might choose to settle. He had his
degrees mounted on rollers, and hung them on
the wall of his surgery, a room within, or
behind, the room where the arrays of bottles
stood out in every variety of shape and hue.

After the damp, subterranean feeling of the
close, which seemed to open into a gaping chasm
of noisy blackness beyond, any one who lifted
the latch of the shop door was entitled to feel
the contrast of light and warmth a little cheerful.
A rickety individual who had slipped in
from the noise and elbowing of the street, and

HACO THE DREAMER

who stood outside the counter of the shop, gazing
with open mouth from shelf to shelf, seemed to
feel it. It was a disagreeable winter night, and
the individual was cold. His nose was blue, and
he rubbed it with the back of his hand. His
head danced on his neck, and he shivered while
he waited for Roger Thorburn, LL.D., to come
to him. He had no overcoat, and his threadbare
jacket glistened with the effects of the rain, which
had beat upon it all the evening, to judge from
the damp shine upon it. Never did human being
if it were human — look so much in need of
the prompt attendance of a doctor. Yet, as he
shivered at the counter, and rapped on it with
his blue knuckles, and craned his neck to lookin
at the open door of the surgery, and stamped
his feet and yawned, and finally called ' Doctor !
doctor!' no one paid any attention to him. Thor-burn
was sitting out of sight in the surgery,
toasting a bit of cheese. The cheese had softened

and passed from the grizzly condition into crisp
brown, and the LL.D. was contemplating it w^tli
a fixed look of animal delight, when he heard
his name called.

That's a fellow with asthma reflected the
LL.D. 'Asthma — asthma, wdiat's the prescription ,
for asthma ? Come down, Buchan, and let me
see. After all, Buchan, there's as much in you
as in a whole college course. Give me Buchan
and the Jersey degree, and what more do I want ? '

Doctor ! doctor ! ' cried the wheezy voice at
the counter.

I wonder what he's like,' pursued the LL.D.
If he's good for a shilling down, I'll charge him
a shilling. I'll give him a little coloured water,
and charge him a shilling. It's worth that for
the sealing-wax I'll put on it, and the green
twine. But I may as well have a look at him.'

He rose and peered through a scratch at a
blind window, and saw his friend the skeleton.

who had been chloroformed by Haeoo Spens, and
who had subsequently risen and walked out of
the hospital arm in arm with himself.

It's that ass, is it ? ' said Roger, returning
to his chair. 'Big fleas,' he hummed, 'have
little fleas upon their backs to bite 'em, and
these fleas have other fleas, and so on, ad
infinitum. This big flea must swallow his cheese
before the Snake gets a smell of it.'

And, without further ado, he turned his cheese
down on a slice of toast and commenced munching
it, never stopping till it had all disappeared, when
he lifted a smoking-cap from a table, put it on
his head, lit a pipe, and without rising, exclaimed,

Snake, Snake, you may come in. I thought
you were a shilling's worth.'

The rickety individual entered the surgery, and,
cold though he was, he made four rapid movements
of dislocation to warm himself. He threw his head

off his shoulder, he jerked his right leg out of its
socket, he broke his back, and dangled his hands.

Enough o' that, now, Snake ; you're throwing
the damp about too much for my taste. What
brings you here to-night ? Why are you not exercising
your profession at the penny gaff? Ah,
Snake, a man with your talents need never have
left the circus. You might have been going' round
the capitals of Europe making crowned heads stare.
The Emperor of Germany would have been asking
you to dine with him, and the Czar of Russia would
have been introducing you to his nursery to break
your back for the children to laugh at, if you had
only been steady.'

The Snake took the compliment without much

visible alteration of features ; indeed, his face

seemed incapable of much alteration of any kind

preserving, as it did, a fixed look of vacancy, as if

prolonged suppression of astonishment at his own

feats had robbed him of the power of expression.
VOL. I M

Yes, I'm the only contortions,' he said, wheezing,
glancing round the room and drawing a
chair towards the fire.

I never invited you to sit down, Snake, and if
my wife catches a sight of you, she'll hit you with
a broom. She doesn't like you, my wife doesn't ;
she has a prejudice against snakes.'

The Snake looked round the room timidly, bent
a listening ear in the direction of a ofreen-baize
door communicating with an inner passage, along
which there was a distinct wail of infancy coming.
No, there was no broom menacing his head. He

o

was re-assured, and, drawing up his nostrils, he
said,

I feel a smell of cheese,' and shivered.

At that moment somebody entered the shop from
without, and Thorburn went out, weighed a powder,
bottled some liquid, and came back to his
surgery.

I o-ot a shilling' this time,' he said, looking at

the contortions. ' Snake,' he added, ' the drawings
o' this business, will be enormous.'

Will they ? ' said the Snake, in a hollow way.

Enormous ; and I'm doing it. Snake, on a Jersey
degree.'

What's that ? '

'A degree a little Dutchman sent me for five
pounds. It's delicious ! Here, under the nose of a
University that has kept me knocking at its 
doors for eight mortal years and
wouldn't let me pass — here I am better ofi" than
any of 'em. Their carriages, Snake — their carriages
take the gilt off their gingerbread ; but
I've got my gingerbread and my gilt all to myself.'

I feel a smell of toasted cheese,' said the Snake,
more decidedly than before ; to which the adviser
replied,

It isn't cheese you want now, Snake ; its something
out of a bottle. Ah, if you had let that
bottle alone, Snake, you might have been breaking

your back for ten pounds a week in Hunger's
Circus. It's a great come-down from the circus to
the penny gaff and the travelling-booth.'

The Snake broke himself in two, dislocated his
left arm, and stared stolidly at the LL.D., with
an allusive sniff at the vanished cheese.

Yes, it's a come-down,' he wheezed. ' Haven't
you got a job for me among the doctors ? Don't
any of 'em want to buy me in advance ? I'll sell
myself cheap. I'm not proud about my remains.
If they wants to study joints on me, I'm open to
an enofao'ement.'

'There's nobody would buy you, Snake. They
know you by heart already. Besides, there's nothing
so very remarkable about you. It's only that
your ligaments are like india rubber, with continual
stretching. If I had begun young I could have
done it myself.'

I'm the only contortions,' said the Snake, ass
decidedly as his huskiness would allow him.

There's nobody like me. There never will be
nobody like me again. You had toasted cheese
to your supper.'

I wish you wouldn't allude to that precious bit
o' cheese so often said the LL.D. ' It makes me
melancholy.'

I was thinking that I hadn't had any meat all
day said the Snake.

Haven't you now?' asked the doctor, with a perfectly
pitiless voice. 'Now, I don't believe in giving
anything for nothing. I'm establishing a young
business, and I want all my capital ; and I do very
fair by you when I give you five shillings a week
hush money, as your share of what I get from
Spens. I can't expect, of course, that Spens will
always be as green as he is. He's not going to goon
for ever paying two pounds a week because he
stuffed your mouth with a towel. No ; that
wouldn't be human nature. Some day he'll getup
in his chair and he'll say, ' Hang this dead man,

and his widow and his orphans ! ' He'll say
that, and then he'll repudiate the debt. That's
what he'll do. We'll never get a sixpence more
out of him when that day comes.'

When will it come ? ' asked the Snake, with an
accent of melancholy, as of one who saw an end to
his wages.

Sooner or later. Later rather than sooner, if
you know how to behave yourself. Take you note
that the practical joke I played that afternoon in
the hospital, when all the surgeons were gone, by
putting you on the waiting-room table and calling
in the house-surgeon to feel your pulse — it's a
splendid trick, that of yours, to keep your pulse in
your stomach and to stop the breathing of your
heart — needn't be found out for years, nor until
the house-surgeon comes home from India, if you
don't betray us. The house-surgeon won't be
likely to show how he was done ; not he. Ho ! ho !
ho : he won't peach. And, in the meantime, Spens

is paying away for the orphans he never made, and
the widow who doesn't exist, and the dead man
who is still alive and kicking. Don't kick me,
though,' he called out, as the Snake made complicated
dislocations of all his parts at once. ' I
promise you your wages if you do your work
properly, for Spens is a funny youth, all moonshine
and superstition, with a nervous system
nicely adapted to seeing ghosts and such-like
objects. A¥e'll keep it up on him judiciously.
It's a sure income. And now, Snake, if you want
some toasted cheese at my fireside, you will walk
up the High-street distributing these business
cards. Don't drop them into an area or throw
them in a handful into the street, but give them,
one by one, to the people you meet, who will take
them from you. Shop — yes, coming.'

He went out and made another shilling and came
back again.

And Snake, don't post them at the General Post

Office in a bunch, though I don't deny that the
staff might be the better of perusing my business
card. It's a beauty, isn't it ? '

The Snake had never been taught to read,
however, but he thought that, as small posters
went, Roger's handbills would do very well.

Ain't I to have the cheese first of all ? '

No; but you can have some tamarind water, and
here's a bit of liquorice-stick to chew at your
work. That'll warm the cockles of your heart on
the way up the High-street ; That'll keep the
wind and the rain and the hail out of your system.
Now, don't let me see you back here for an hour at
least. It'll take you all that time to distribute.'

The Snake swallowed his tamarind water and
went out into the street, chewing his liquorice-stick.

When he had gone, Mrs Roger Thorburn put
her head in at her husband's door, and asked,

How's business, Roger ? '

Roger was, apparently, quite satisfied, for he hit

this trousers' pocket and the sound which proceeded
from it was silvery to a degree.

'Has Mr Spens paid his money this week,
Roger ? '

Not yet. It should be in tomorrow, or I'll put
Snake on his scent. Spens is a fool of a fellow,
always looking out for picturesque bits, as he calls
them, in the moonlight, and that sort of think'.
I'll make Snake fetch him on one of these
occasions It's the only work Snake does for his
money. Hang him ! five shillings a week out of
two pounds ! I must put on the screw, and see
if Spens can't come down with some more dust.'

Mrs Thorburn, arrayed in a tattered skirt, gave
Roger a look of affectionate encouragement, put
out her foot to check the entrance of a child who
was sucking the sweet end of a pestle, gently
closed the baize door, and trailed her slippers in a
slovenly style through the passage where the
wail in cr came from.

CHRISTIE S SUPPER

It is easy for a 3'oung fellow to make a college
session useless. Hac having Broken down in
his first examination paper, determined to dono
more that year by way of competition. He
would, of course, read and take notes of lectures,
but to jut himself into competition with men
who lead stood the fire of the first examination
was out of the question. He knew his father
would expect to see him, at least, as high on the
lists as he had been at school. He looked forward

to what his father would say to him with a
throbbing heart ; still, he gave up the pursuit
of the bronze medal, and ranged himself for the
remainder of the session as a spectator who sat
taking notes.

Having made up his mind to stop competing
he said to himself,

'After all, the first session doesn't matter.
This summer I will compete for and get the
medal in botany. I don't see any fellow in the
anatomy class likely to get it ; or, at least, any
fellow who oughtn't be beat with hard work.'

Accordingly he contented himself with his
work in the hospital at which there was no
examination, and, though he never became very
skilful in the wards, he was a strong ally to Lady
Mary, bringing in every third day magnificent
bouquets, which had been made up at Binkie and
sent over for distribution ; giving; little readings
for the benefit of the convalescents, and otherwise

helping, without much advancing his own
studies.

It relieved the strain of his remorse, however,
to throw himself into the work of the ward —
remorse for his abandonment of the examinations,
for his use of the chloroform towel, for the amount
of debt he was beginning to drift into without
behoof able to avoid it.

'You've never been up in my rooms,' said
Christie to him one day, after the Christmas
holidays had dragged out their weary length.
They were weary to Hac, because he had not
known what to do with them exactly. The
theatres were all given over to pantomime, and
he liked that less than drama. The concerts
were all devoted to the singing of Scotch songs,
and though he liked that well enough, he found
enough to be as good as a feast.

Not yet, Christie.'

Come up, then, on Friday night. I'm going

to give a supper. You are the only medical
student. There is to be a lawyer, some theologians,
and one artist. You will like to meet the artist,
because he is such a humorous fellow — too
humorous, some people think him ; but he's a
splendid painter, and people forgive a good
deal for that.'

I shall be very glad to come,' said Hac, who
had already been with Christie to Professor
Stewart's, and found him a most agreeable
companion to go about with. He carried his
honours so modestly. Though he had five medals
in a cabinet, all taken by his own industry, no
one could have known it on him. He never
alluded to them ; he never gave himself airs
because he thought people knew how clever he
had been in his classes. He was just like any
other body who had not taken medals. Indeed,
he was frequently taken for nobody at all ; and
on these occasions, it was only when matters of

fact came up for discussion that he was able to
show that he was somebody ; for, in conversation,
if anybody, for example, mixed up the daughters of
Jove, and said that Clotho was by Dione, and Venus
by Proserpine, and such like, Christie was down
upon him at once, attributing the right daughters
to the right mothers.

On the Friday night, when Hac went to his
rooms (he lived in a street in Stourbridge),
nobody had arrived.

Christie received him rather nervously when
he went into his bedroom with him to see him
wash his hands.

'I haven't done anything of this sort before.
It is my first supper I think we fellows ought
to see more of each other, you know. Father
says it's awfully different at Oxford, where he
studied, and where I'm o-oino; when I o-et my Mea.
There fellows get to know each other, and really
enjoy a little social life. We are awfully far

behind in Edinburgh. Nobody knows any other
body at college, and the professors are rather
sticks ; don't you think so ? With the exception
of Tea-party Candor, who really means well, and
Professor Stewart, who runs about after every
student on the sick-list, there isn't a man among
them who makes a try for a little social life.'

'You talk awfully like an old fellow, Christie.'
'Well, I'm not a chicken now, Hac. I'm one-and-twenty
years of age. You're not so very
young, either. Eighteen, aren't you ? Of course
I've had a good deal more experience than you ;
but I don't see why, at your age, you shouldn't
have ideas about things as well as me. All the
other fellows who are coming have views. Tree*
the artist, gives me a little anxiety. I hope he'll
come sober, and not do anything outrageous, ashe
sometimes does. I don't want to offend my
landlady. She's what they call a respectable
widow woman, and wouldn't like Tree to be too

HACO THE DREAMER

outrageous. Ah ! here is somebody coming. It's
one of the theologians. It's Hogg. How d'ye
do, Hogg ? This is Spens — Sir Thomas Spens'
son. I've told you about him.'

Hogg was a small man, of an unwieldy habit
of body, snub-nosed, wearing spectacles. There
was an unctuous roll about his voice as he held
out his hand to Hac, and said,

Sir Thomas Spens is a man for whom I have
a very great regard. I look upon him as perhaps
the greatest surgeon we have had since Paley —
no, not Paley, some other great man whose name
has escaped me. It gives me great pleasure to be
introduced to a son of Sir Thomas Spens.'

Hac did not know what to make of the little
speech ; it was formal, and smacked so much of
the pulpit. He was considering how to answer
him, when a second theologian made his
appearance. He had already graduated, and
was attending a theological college. His chief

peculiarity was a large red nose and a loud, large
voice, which filled the room.

" A little for thy stomach's sake " — see
Timothy,' said the new arrival, divesting himself
of his coat and reaching out his hand to a
giraffe and a bottle.

I left that out for Tree,' said Christie. Help
yourself, Watson. I didn't knows you cared for
it. Hogg, will you have some ? It's old Scotch
whisky.'

A very little of it makes my head spin and my
tongue waif, ' said Hosffr.

Then don't have it,' remarked Watson, emptying
a glass and smacking his lips. ' I am of
opinion.' he went on, as if he were addressing a
congregation of three thousand people, ' I am of
opinion that Timothy would not have sanctioned
the taking of Scotch whisky by any person whose
tongue it affected and whose intellect it clouded,
not that you are sorely burdened by the latter

VOL. I N

HACO THE DREAMER

as yet, Mr Hogg ; but you are younger than me
and a little intellect may come. '

I wish Tree would put in an appearance, ' said
Christie, uneasily, looking at his watch; 'he's a
most unreliable man. He promised faithfully to
be here at the hour. '

At that moment the voice of the landlady was
heard exclaiming in the passage,

Oh, Mr Tree, you shouldn't! Now, you mustn't,
I really will not ! Oh, Mr Tree ! '

Confound him ! ' said Christie, in a whisper.
Tree's kissing her behind the door. '

But Tree came in with a look of the most unembarrassed
innocence, arrayed in a Turkish caftan
and accoutrements.

I've been giving a sitting in character, to
Thino^umbob. I came on without chanojino^. How
d'ye do ? '

You've been keeping up the character behind
the door. Tree. I heard you. This is the Rev. — or

very nearly the Rev. — Mr Watson. This is not
quite so near Rev. Mr Hogg. This is Hac Spens,
Sir Thomas' son. This is a merchant from Leith
who hasn't finished his apprenticeship yet. This is

a layer who I say, Tree, don't take so much

of that stuff; it'll make you play one of your
practical jokes. '

Get out,' said Tree, laying down a tumbler, and
giving a long sigh of satisfaction. ' Well,' he
remarked, looking round the group, who stood in
various attitudes about the hearth rug, ' there isn't
any of you I'd like to put into a picture except
this chap.'

Who do you say he is ? '

Spens.'

Spens ? Very well, Spens, my studio's on the
Mound. I get a fine free light up there, and I'm
suspended, like Mahomet's coffin between the two
spheres. You come and see my studio, and I'll put
you into a bit of canvas. Mind you, two or three

inches o' my canvas are worth a pocketful of
sovereigns.'

Hac had painted a little at Dreghorn, and
thought he knew something about art He told
Tree that he would see him in his studio tomorrow.


Don't be so literal as that, ' said Tree, advancing
to the window and stealthily opening it. ' Come
in the middle o' next week, and bring your sister
with you. '

I haven't got one, ' said Hac.

That's a pity for posterity, ' replied Tree. ' By
Jove !' he added, ' they're there yet ;' and making a
sudden dart into Christie's bedroom, he returned
ass suddenly with his ewer. ' Hardy loo ! ' he thundered
into the street ; and two faces from beneath
two top-hats looked up in good time to receive
the entire contents of the dish. Tree drew in his
head, deposited the ewer on the floor, and capered
round the room as if he belonged to a ballet. If at

the moment he could have sat to himself, he might
have done for Beneficence smiling upon a good
action.

Mr Watson, however, was horrified.

I beg of you to remember,' he said, in a most
solemn voice, ' that only last Sabbath I officiated in
the pulpit of Mutton-Hole, and if it was to go forth
that I had been concerned in so reckless an action
my spiritual and material prosperity might be
very substantially damaged.'

'Right between the eyes, by Jove!' said Tree
running on tiptoe to peer from the side of the
blind at the drenched ones, who had gone into the
middle of the street to try and discover the window
from which the flood had descended.

Who was it, Tree ? ' asked Christie, anxious to
come between the theologian and the artist, and
afraid at the same time that something serious
might happen.

'An old Academy friend of mine and the

neighbouring doctor, ' said Tree. ' I owed them
both a grudge, and I believe, my reverend friend,
it's a dispensations. It's like the fellow saying,
Oh that mine enemy would write a book !" Here
have I been cr3dng out, " Oh that Varnish would
stand under a window and give me a chance ! "
And here he turns up his face and gets it. '

The landlady laid the supper right off. It was
a very substantial feast, spread with game of
various kinds from Christie's father's place in
Forfar. There was plenty of old Edinburgh ale,
some of Hac's wine which had not been ' changed

o

at ness, ' and spirits for those who wanted it.

It's a game supper, ' said the merchant from
Leith, aiming at a pun.

We're members of the aristocracy to-night,'
said the very nearly Rev. Mr Hogg.

It's a grouse absurdity to pun upon it, ' said
I ree.

Hac tried all his might to make one, but it was

no use. He didn't see his way, nor did Christie,
who was carving the hare abominably, while Tree
was doing the grouse like an expert.

There's nothing else comines, ' said Christie.

You see your supper before ye,' said Mr Watson,
licking his lips with joyful anticipation, and
strivings to foro-et the incident of the ewer.

Encouraged by the absence of any consequences
from the antic of Tree, the Rev. Mr Watson began
to talk about his Sunday's discourse at Mutton-hole.


You are aware, Mr Tree, that I am not yet
a licentiate of the Church, so that preaching a
sermon is rather an event in my career. It's the
fifteenth time I've read the same sermon, and I doit
with magnificent effect now. But it's very
aggravating to see the sleepers. Would ye believe
it, Mr Tree, I've made twenty-one pounds three
and nine pence out of that discourse ? '

It's a hanged shame, then,' said Tree, with his

mouth full of grouse, and his oars inclined to the
window. ' I never heard a sermon that was worth
sixpence. Don't begin to preach it here. I say.
Varnish is kicking up a " was " in the street.'

Everybody laid down a fork or knife and
listened, and a voice in the street was heard
exclaiming,

I suspect that window, policeman — that one ;
those two windows where the lights are, and where
the sound of the voices was coming a little ago.'

Mr Watson grew pale in the face, and turning to
Christie, exclaimed,

I had no hand in this affair, you will recollect.
If the policemen are brought up here, I will feel it
to be my duty to point out the individual who
perpetrated the outrage.'

Will ye ? ' said Tree. ' I'll have a slice o' your
hare now, Christie. The smell o' that hare reminds
me that I was once painting at the lodge-gate of
Lord Rowan — you know Lord Rowan's, over the

hill from your father's ; I was a guest of his
lordship's, if you please. Sir Little Acorn, he came
swinging up in his dog-cart, and no man behind
him. He sees me doings nothings, as he believes,
and looks down and says, " I say, my good fellow,
will you be good enough to open that gate for me?"
I will," says I, touching my hat. And he put
his thumb and finger into his pocket and threw
down a sixpence. An hour after I met him at
dinner. He looked blue. That was at Lord
Rowan's, you will remember. And talking of
Rowan, he has a glass eye. Old Spens put a
glass eye in him, and he declares he sees better
with it than the other one. Wonderful fellow, old
Spens.'

I must introduce you to my father some time
or other,' said Hac, proud of his parentage, and
about to describe some amazing things he had done
before he took to moles, when a i^reat thundering
at the door commenced.

Tree and Spens rushed out of the room.

Christie rose and bade his guests be seated, as if
nothing had occurred.

The knocking went on, and Tree prompting her,
the landlady demanded, in a tearful voice, who was
there.

An assault has been committed from your windows,'
said some one outside.

It's a policeman,' whispered the landlady,
wringing her hands. ' Oh, Mr Tree, will ye never
be done wi' your pranks ? '

I know his voice,' whispered Hac.

You do ? Influence at court, by Jove ! In luck
again. Let the bobby in.'

One of you,' continued Tree, in an exact imitation
of the landlady's voice, ' may come in. But
I'm a decent householder, and will not have my
house roughly broken into. One of you at a time
only one. Spens, when jour friend the bobby
comes in, take him into that room and give him

half-a-crown. Here's a pantry with a window
opening on to the passage outside. Lend me your
family umbrella. Ah, here it is.'

Tree disappeared ; the landlady opened the door ;
the policeman, baton in hand, came in, and was
received by Hac. It was the man who lived at
Sandy Baxter's. The wet Academician tried to
follow him, but was promptly shut out, and while
Hac, leading the policeman into another room
had a quiet chat with him, Tree, at his hidden
window, belaboured his enemy in the passage with
the knotted handle of the umbrella. He came out
radiant, and, seeing the policeman, said,

Oh, you know what to do. It was all a joke.
He didn't mean it. Don't take him to the station,
you know. He's a big fool; but I know he won't
do it again.'

Whereupon the policeman was led into Christie's
supper-room. The Rev Mr Watson, agitated and
striving to be calm, was pointed out to him.

HACO THE DREAMER

It's no use, my dear sir, making any objections,'
said Tree. ' Bobby, remove him from the
room.'

.When he had been removed, Tree sat down, and
wiping his brow, said,

Now, Christie, let's make a night of it.'

THE END OF THE SESSION

Hac went up and saw Tree's studio, and made so
many appropriate remarks about the beauties of
Tree's pictures, that the artist came greatly to like
him.

With your views,' he said, ' what makes you
follow drugs ? Judging from the look of you, you
can do either of three things well. You can sing
a song ; you can paint a picture ; you can write a
poem. In any of the three cases, if 3"0U do it well,
you are a benefactor of your species. But if, as

you say, you have no enthusiasm for stinks, you
will become a charlatan of the deepest dye if you
pursue them.'

I didn't think 3'ou had such serious views,' said
Hac, who, remembering the incidents of the
supper, thought of Tree as more of a buffoon than
anything else.

You didn't think ! Look into these portfolios ;
look round these easels ; study these sketches and
pictures, and judge for yourself if my lifeblood
isn't in them. And if I choose to amuse
myself when my work's done, the world may go
hang in its opinion of me and my character.'

Sing a song, paint a picture, write a poem —
which should it be ? Hac had been to the opera,
and thought he would like to be a great operatic
singer ; he had seen Tree's pictures, and thought he
would like to be Tree with a difference ; he read
from all the English poets, and with the exception
of Swift and one or two others, he wished that he

might have been any of them. He went on
dreaming, in fact ; and the end of the session came.
The only work he had faithfully done was attending
at the wards, and that, it is to be feared, was
rather because he knew Lady Mary was there than
because he liked the work.

It was on one of the last days, while he was
waiting with Lady Mary in the ward, before he
went to the operating theatre, that she said to him,

Hac, have you got any medals ? '

Oh, no. I don't much believe in them : in fact
I haven't competed. One doesn't need to stand in
class lists to get one's degree.'

She looked at him with a sigh of disappointment.


Ah, if I had been allowed to compete, I should
have cared to stand in the lists,' she said.

Should you ? '

Yes ; one is never wrong to race with other
people, when the goal is recognized by proper

authority. It is conceited, Hac, to stand aside
and think it doesn't matter, as if you were a being
to whom different laws of life applied. Next
session you must compete. I am afraid you have
not worked so hard as you ought to have done.'

Hac felt the rebuke keenly. He wore so downcast
an expression, as he stood by the fireplace,
that Lady Mary added,

I take quite a personal interest in your success.
You must understand that. I should have been
grateful to you if you had done well.'

You are lecturing me.'

No ; but remember your father's splendid reputation,
and that so much is expected of you. You
are expected to be his successor to more than the —
Binkie Manor and the rest of it.'

For your sake, I shall try to like the profession,'
said Hac, who felt a strange throbbing at his
heart, as he looked into the wistful eyes of Lady
Mary.

'For their sake she replied, pointing round at
the beds and the little sufferers who were lying in
them.

Yes,' said Hac, going out to the operating
theatre, when Mrs Blake came in to consult with
her assistant.

The operating theatre, was down stairs — a lofty
apartment, with a high glass dome, and benches
rising to the roof, which commanded a view of the
central floor and table where the surgeons worked.

The first person Hac saw was Sandy Baxter,
leaning his chin on a bench and staring down upon
the doctors.

You have nothing from your ward to-day ? '
asked Sandy.

No ; Dale is giving a man a new nose, after Dr
John has tried his hand upon a knee joint. It's Dr
John's first public operation. I don't think he will
do it very well. I know I heard Cruni call him a
muff.'

VOL. I O

Presently the benches filled up with men having
note-books ; a sound of heavy footsteps was heard
outside, and a man in a basket was carried in by
four ward-dressers. He was lifted out and placed
upon a table, and two dressers stood pumping
spray in the neighbourhood of the table, while two
others, with bottle of chloroform and towel, urged
the patient into a sleep. He soon fell over, though
he continued to make noisy ejaculations from time
to time; and Dr John presently rose, with his
right arm bared at the wrist, and a bit of gleaming
in his hand. There were at least half-a-dozen
surgeons sitting round about, with operations of
their own to attend to after his was done. They
soon began to show signs of impatience, rapidly
snatching out their watches and looking at them
as Dr John's movements seemed too slow : for he
took a long time to narrate to the benches the ' history
' of the case, and how it came about that the
knee-joint required excising. At last the crucial

moment came : the dressers pumped the spray-deftly
; the men with the towel leant their heads
close to the head of the patient ; the men who had
carried him down in the basket kept him from
moving with their hands on his arms. Hac never
looked at these moments. He had never seen an
operation yet in its entirety ; but Sandy Baxter
was all eyes. Nothing escaped him ; he bared his
own arm sympathetically at the wrist along with
Dr John. His eyes gleamed as he looked down
the theatre. Then Dr John, having made an
incision, looking up, with a blush mantling his face
remarked, in a muffled and disappointed voice,

'After all, gentlemen, it's only a cyst. I have
been a little out in my diagnosis. There is practically
nothing the matter with the man.'

The surgeons who were waiting looked amused,
perhaps a little triumphant, and the healthy
patient was slapped back to consciousness again
and carried up stairs.

Poor soul ! he'll be glad to find his leg on,' said
Hac, as he moved out from behind the theatre
with Sandy Baxter.

'This is our last day at the extra-mural,'
said Sandy. ' They are giving out the prizes.
Have you time, Spens, to come and hear the
valedictory ? '

Our session is practically at an end too,' replied
Hac. ' Yes, I'll go round with you.'

The sergeant was at the door of the medical
school as they entered. He saluted Sandy, with a
look of grave respect, and Hac being introduced
to him as a son of Sir Thomas Spens, he bowed low
and ushered the lads into a lecture-room. The
platform was already filled with the professors'
wives; a few elderly gentlemen who had helped
the doctors to purchase the house occupied the
benches, and as Sandy came in he received a look
of cordial congratulation from everybody Hac

wished that he had earned people's cordiality in
the same way.

Then the full medical staff came in, and
addressed the college — that is, Sandy.

'I have much pleasure said the professor of
anatomy, ' in saying that Alexander Baxter, though
he has been our only student, has been as good as a
class in himself. He has earned the silver medal,
which a special endowment enables me to present
to him on this occasion. It is true that one
swallow does not make a summer ; but, regarding
Mr Baxter as a swallow, I think we may say that
he is the good augury for a very warm summer of
coming students.'

A rumbling of feet, amid which Sandy went
back to his seat with his silver medal in his hand.

I have to say,' remarked the professor of
chemistry, ' that in all my experience of teaching I
have had no pupil who promised so well as
Alexander Baxter. He has made the session,

which has not been otherwise remunerative, one of
pleasure and profit. Take, Alexander Baxter, this
silver medal, which a special endowment enables
me to give you. You richly merit it for the work
you have done.'

I had no right to suppose,' said the professor of
physiology, 'that in his first year of class-work
Alexander Baxter would attend my lectures. It is
not in the usual course. But his appetite is omnivorous.
I have pleasure in handing him the silver
medal for which he has worked.'

Hac looked into each medal as Sandy brought
it to the benches, and devoutly wished he were
carrying them home to the Manor. Heavens ! how
his father would have softened towards him ! But
were there no other sessions before him to retrieve
himself in ?

When the speeches were over, the elderly gentlemen
came down and shook hands with Sandy.
They wished him a prosperous career. The' told

him that he had exceptional advantages. They
said, if he went on as he had begun, he would soon
go to the top of the tree. Everybody seemed to
wish well to Sandy, and Hac, walking out with
him into the street, felt a little forlorn.

HOME

Between the winter and summer session a month
intervened, and Hac had to go home. Home !
The word had a pleasant significance for scores and
scores of the lads who had been running up and
down the steps of the University all winter. Some
of them went west to the mountains, and thence to
a straw-thatch on the edge of a moor, and told their
winter's experience at a hearth of peat to a crowd of
fishermen. Some of them went east to the little
towns on the coast, and told the local lawyer,



doctor, or minister all that was doing under the
foot of the castle rock since their day, and enjoyed
their elevation of manhood for the first, and,
perhaps, for the last time. For six long months
had they not been at the tender mercies of eating-houses
and landladies, and lived .as strangers in a
strange land ? But at the summer's end were there
not mothers' arms open for them, and sisters' kisses
and brothers' gibes, and all the kindly excitement
of returning with pale faces, which created anxiety
and of having books forcibly removed, in case they
would prolong their devotions to them too much
and become ill ?

Hac did not feel any glow of delight about his
prospect of home-coming. He did not know how
he could ever approach his father True, his father
might still be so deep in the problem of the eyesight
of moles that he would not trouble with
questioning him much ; but then he might question
him a great deal, in which case he would have to

produce some portentous booksellers' accounts, and
let him know that for a month he had not paid
Mrs Ramsay any board, that he had not got
into the class lists, and that he had killed a man.
It was a poor sum total to a session, particularly
Ashen Sandy Baxter's achievements were taken
into account — Sandy, with his three medals and his
original ten pound saved and taken home for
presentation to his mother. Devoutly he wished
he were the son of the grieve the afternoon he
reached Binkie Manor. His father was out when
he went in, and it seemed to him as if the temporary
respite was the only happiness awaiting him.
The housekeeper met him in the hall, and, holding
up her hands, exclaimed,

Oh, Mr Hac, you are looking like a ghost ! '

Am I ? ' said Hac, as Sir Thomas' man, a
veteran who believed himself to be a surgeon
through long contiguity with the profession, added,

Mr Hac, you've been overdoing it. Your

father has ridden over to Farmlme. He didn't
expect you so soon.'

I'm all right, thank you,' said Hac, miserably.

More and more he beo-an to feel as if he were a

o

culprit about to come up before the bar of an
inflexible judge. Then he strolled away to the
room of his boyhood, and, standing at the window,
looked out on the blue sea.

Sir Thomas' man had followed him with some
of his luggage.

How are you going to like it, Mr Hac ? ' he
asked, having unstrapped a portmanteau.

Like what, Isaac ? '

The profession. Is it to your mind ? '

Oh, yes ; it's well enough, Isaac. I haven't
quite got used to it yet. No, thank you, there isn't
anything more you can do for me just now.'

He dressed himself, and presently went round a
corridor to the room which shad been his mother's.
When his other died he had been too young to

miss her. He had not been able to grieve about
her much, not being able to forecast the loss to
himself of the parent who alone had ever shed
caresses on him. But as he stood at the fireplace,
looking round the room, he missed her bitterly,
passionately ; and the more he thought of Sir
Thomas coming brusquely in upon him, the more
he yearned for the soft intervention of Lady Spens.
There was a miniature of her over the mantelpiece.
Hac took it down and put it to his lips. ' Mother
mother ! ' he cried, and the hot tears ran over his
cheeks.

Sir Thomas was riding from Farmline to Binkie
when his son arrived. All winter it had not
occurred to him that Hac was a long time away.
A man who is on the eve of a scientific discovery,
the discovery, like a will-o'-the-wisp, eluding his
microscope from month to month, has not much

time to devote to such a sentimental consideration
as the absence of his son upon his studies. Sir
Thomas did not give it a score of thoughts all the
time. He was working for humanity ; how could
he be expected to devote a great deal of his
attention to one son ? While he was riding over
from Farmline, however, and when he had approached
one of his own outlying fields, he saw
Hac's pony limping along among the short spring-herbage.
He had seen the pony in the morning
and judged that it had received one of the amenities
of the field — a severe kick from the mare he
himself was riding, and who had fed in the same
field with the pony. He had no time when he
passed in the morning to look at the limping
animal; but on this occasion he looked, and saw
the fore-leg done up with a Spens splint. Now, a
Spens splint was one of his own inventions, and it
required a great deal of ingenuity to apply it, and
he had never seen one applied without a feeling of

contempt for the operator. But here was the
splint put on to perfection. He tied up his mare
to a gate, went into the field, looked at the fore-leg
of the pony, and, laying it down, murmured,

'I might have done it myself! It's Hac. I
couldn't have believed it. He's a born surgeon.
My own splint ! '

For the first time in his recollection, probably,
he experienced a slight sensation of exultation in
thinking of his son. After all, Hac was not his
mother's son; he was his. Sir Thomas Spens' son,
having the trick of his fingers and the judgment
of his brain.

The grieve was perplexed. He had never told
Sir Thomas that his son had gone to Edinburgh to
study medicine. He did not tell him that he had
returned from the extra-mural with three silver
medals. He had even intercepted his wife, who,
arrayed in her best, was going down to the manor

to call upon the housekeeper to show the firstfruits
of her son's genius.

Nothing of the sort said the grieve. ' What !
stir up envy and jealousy, and make mischief ! Mr
Hac has got nothing.'

He supposed that it was likely Sir Thomas must
come to know some time that his son was studying
medicine, and studying it to magnificent purpose ;
but even now, when the surgeon was pointing out
a splint which Sandy had made and applied,
attributing it to Hac, he thought that it was
not for him, but for the chapter of accidents, to
reveal the circumstance. Sir Thomas was not
making too much of the accident to the pony.
The grieve knew that if he trotted out his boy
and his achievements he would have a bad five
minutes, and he had no mind to hear the baronet's
blasphemy as he strode indignantly out of the
field; for the illustrious surgeon could sometimes
swear.

It's a wonderful application,' said the grieve,
going round the pony's head, and, under the light
supplied him by the baronet's talk, beginning to
see his own son as something of a paragon.

'Take the pony home, Baxter; let him have
a soft bedding, weak feeding ; and not a word
more about that splint. The hand that applied
that splint will cure the pony. Tell your wife to
send a couple of dozen of eggs to that worthless
wretch on the road over to Farmline — the hearer
who cut his own leg ; and if Utter's boy calls for
milk, he's to have a couple of quarts every
morning for the next six weeks gratis.'

And Sir Thomas, mounting at the gate, rode to
Binkie Manor. Hac met his father at dinner.
He was exquisitely nervous. But the feeling wore
off at once, for his father met him with a cordiality
which, if it left Hac with a poignant regret
that he had not made more of the session, made
him also very glad in a new experience. He had

never had his hand shaken by his father as he
had it now. Isaac waited at table, and was
profoundly interested in the son's return. He
had a hundred questions which he would have
liked to put to the lad, and he wondered how the
surgeon could postpone asking them through two
entire courses.

On the whole, then, Hac, what branch of your
work do you seem to like best ? ' asked Sir Thomas
at dessert. ' Isaac, you can put down a '48. Now,
bring it up as if it were a precious life that you
might sacrifice by shaking. A '48, Hac, in honour
of your return ! I don't broach a '48 more than
once or twice a year. Who had it last, Isaac ?
Ah, he's gone. I don't advise you to cultivate a
fine taste for wine, my boy ; you will want the
use of your hands for many a useful year to
come, so they must be steady, sure, firm, immovable.
Many an operation have I seen bungled

by a shaky hand. Why, there was Gillies,
VOL. I P

who smoked six hours a day, and who would
have smoked at his operations if we had let him.
Gillies' hand shook so that his blade made a
sawing motion when he was making a clean
stroke. Ah, Isaac, who last had that '48 ? '

A foreign gentleman, sir, from Vienna.'

'To be sure — the great Viennese oculist. He
had a '48. Said it reminded him of revolutions
and earthquakes and commotions in general. I
remember. Gently, Hac ; treat it gently. Ita
noble vintage. How d'ye like it ? '

Hac tasted it, and didn't seem to see any
difference between it and any other kind of wine.
He said it was the noblest wine he had ever had
at his lips.

Yes, I think it is. Well, what branch of your
work do you think you like best — chemistry,
anatomy, or hospital work ? '

Hac paused, and, remembering Lady Mary, said

that, of all his classes, he greatly preferred the
hospital.

Yes, yes — very good ; but don't overlook your
anatomy. Surgery is based on anatomy. They
hang together — they all hang together. Each
science is but a different aspect of all knowledge —
remember that — and the practical arts are only
applied science. Eh ? eh ? You were making
some remark.'

No, it was nothing. I didn't think of anything
at the moment.'

Then, at that moment, the surgeon became
exceedingly cunning in the expression of his face.
He might have been a country lad saying, or about
to say, ' You don't get over me,' so expressive of
extreme slyness were his eyes.

And, Hac, do you mean to tell me that Crum
has so far abandoned his prejudices as to use the
Spens splint ? '

Hac had never heard of his father's splint.

There were so many allusions to him in the wards
that he got used to his name and forgot half of
them.

The Spens splint ! ' ejaculated Hac, wishing
very much that he knew what it meant.

Sir Thomas drank some more '48, and, to the
surprise of his son, who had not heard him laugh
half-a-dozen times in his life, he broke into a
hearty fit of laughing.

My boy, go on as you are doing. I believe in
independence of judgment and action. Take your
own time. You will go over my head yet. Yes,
yes, high over it. The Spens splint is enough forme.
And now, for the next month, go and amuse
yourself to your heart's content, and don't let me
hear a word about medicine.'

INTERRUPTED Love-making

Hac did not trouble his father with unnecessary
remarks about his first session. He was surprised
to find himself so easily let off. Not a word did
his father say to him on the subject of his classes,
having seen the splint. The splint was enough for
Sir Thomas; he turned in upon his moles again,
and though there was a visible softening of his
manner to his son, and a heightened respect, it
came out casually, and with no immediate allusion
to what he had been studying. To Hac's discomfort,

his father seemed quietly satisfied with
him.

After his first experience of life in the metropolis,
Binkie Manor became very pleasant for
Halo. On the morning after his arrival he went
all over the garden and let himself out upon the
rocks, and, as the sun shone briskly down upon
the shore and showed him everything at its most
beautiful, he felt that it was an occasion for a
poem. He had not written one all winter. He
would try one now. He would put Lady Mary
into it ; nay, he would write it about Lady Mary.
When Hac wrote verse, it was a sure sign that
the burden of life was not pressing very heavily
on him. He was as cheerful as one of the blackbirds
among the copses, as he took out his notebook
and beo'an inscribing woeful ballad to the
nursing sister. It surprised him, beyond measure,
how swiftly the numbers came on him. The Lady
Mary, gentle, tender, bending among her sick

infants, and administering consolation to them,
seemed revealed to himself in his outpouring of
affection to her. Why, he must be in love with
her, and he had never known it. Harken ! the
poem done, and a big sigh heaved. Yes, surely
that was love. What else could it be ? He would
send his verses to the Lady Mary, so that she
should learn she had a lover, though she did not
know his name.

Ah ! ' sighed Hac ao^ain, ' if she were but hereon
this strand, where the waves are kissing the
pebbles, could I not tell her how much I love her ? '

And he set off aloof the shore. He had not o-one
far before he saw Tibbie Baxter, gathering ' flowers
of constancy ' at the roots of the trees. He had
not seen Tibbie since he had returned. He Remembered
her fragrant little letter, containing the
enclosure of bluebells, and he could not help
noticing how much she had chant-ed since last
he saw her. Tibbie gathered flowers very nicely,

not with a rude dash at the roots, bringing up
handfuls of grass, but rather with a gentle solicitation
to each flower to join her bunch, because it was
better for it to be there than on the cold ground.

Hac thought her exquisitely pretty, winding
out and in the roots of the trees, unseen by anyone,
engaged in filling her hand.

Tibbie, I am so glad to see you,' he said, approaching,
while she stooped. ' I hope you are
keeping well. I don't know how you happened
to get bluebells in winter, but, I assure you, on
my mantelpiece in Edinburgh they looked beautiful
— the handful you sent me.'

Tibbie raised herself from her task, let a becoming'
blush suffuse her face, and holdings out her
hand, exclaimed, with a little gesture,

'Oh, Mr Hac ! I didn't expect to find you here.'

Perhaps she didn't. She really looked so surprised
that she may not have expected him.
Anyhow, she seemed very glad to see him.

Why, Tibbie you are quite changed since I
saw you last ! What has happened to you ? '

Tibbie's dark eyes sparkled with pleasure as
she looked at him, but she did not speak just at
once. She looked down on the ground, and held
her bluebells at her back.

'You have become — why, you are a beautiful
creature, Tibbie ! '

Oh, no, indeed, then, and I'm not, Mr Hac ! '
said Tibbie, looking round with a startled gesture.

But I tell you you are, Tibbie. You're like
Sandy — you've changed all of a sudden ; and from
being — not plain you know — you were never plain,
but different — you have become quite a beauty \
You must allow me to judge, coming back from the
metropolis, where I have seen so many types of
beauty. I have been acting with Lady Mary Hay
all winter, who is the most exquisitely beautiful
woman on earth ; and comparing you even with
Lady Mary, Tibbie, you are quite a beauty.'

Tibbie did not seem to care much about the comparison,
for she said, with a little curtsey,

I'm only interrupting you, Mr Hac. I come
here for the flowers because they grow to a deeper
blue and a redder red than higher up, where the
wind is too strong for them. I'm going away to
the Mains now.'

Oh, wait a minute, Tibbie,' said Hac. ' I
should awfully like you to hear my poem on Lady
Mary Hay. It won't be read to another soul but
you. You are the first and last before it is posted
and sent off to Lady Mary. And she doesn't know
who it's comines from.'

o

Hac took out his note-book, and, in a melodious
voice, read his poem to Tibbie, who, nursing her
Mowers, listened with downcast lids. She did not
attempt to criticise it, though Hac read her the
last two verses twice over. He thought them
exceptionally nice, and he expected Tibbie to say
something.

Now, if your lover had written these verses to
you, Tibbie, would you have thought them nice ?
Would you have valued them ? Would they
have '

I have no lover, ' said Tibbie, with a sigh, as
they ascended a path among the roots of the trees,
where the ferns were beginning to sprout. ' I
think them very beautiful, Mr Hac.'

Ah, I'm glad you like them, Tibbie. Let me
give you a hand up this steep bit. There, hold on,
and I will pull you up till we get on to the grass
walk behind the trees, looking on the fields. I
haven't been there since I returned. '

Tibbie, clutching her flowers in one hand, and
giving her other hand to Hac, felt herself borne
up among the trees, till they had ascended the
steep path to the very top.

It's very steep,' said Tibbie, her breath coming
and o-oino- as she stood to recover it.

Yes ; but could you imagine anything nicer than

the view down the copse, with the waves lapping
the beach ? It makes me wild with delight to
look at it. '

I suppose you were very happy in Edinburgh ?'
said Tibbie, trying to unfasten a padlock at a gate
which led through the fields to Binkie Mains.

o

Hac's brow clouded, and he replied,
I hope never to spend so miserable a six months
in my life again. Has Sandy not told you that I
was very miserable ? '

No ; he only said you hadn't taken medals.'
Oh, worse than that, Tibbie : much worse than
that. Don't be in such a hurry to go away. I
should like awfully to tell you all about it. It
does a fellow good to get a little sympathy. '
Did Lady Mary not sympathise with you ? '
Well, she's different ; I didn't tell her.'
Tibbie's face brightened, and she stopped fingering
the padlock as she looked up at Hac with
sparkling eyes.

I am sure, if I could do or say anything to

help you '

'Bless you, Tibbie, you couldn't help me. My
difficulties are a man's difficulties, and you are buta
girl. I'll tell you how you could help me though '

And Hac, putting the palms, of his hands on

each of Tibbie's cheeks, drew her face towards
himself and kissed her lips.

'Mr Hac, you shouldn't do that,' said Tibbie,
her eyes glowing and her cheeks aflame. ' What
would your beautiful Lady Mary Hay say to you
if she knew ? '

Oh, I didn't think of that. Of course, when I
say that I am in love with Lady Mary, it's a sort of
poetical license, you know.'

You shouldn't take poetical licenses, Mr Hac,'
said Tibbie, looking at him mischievously, and
without further resentment.

'Why, Tibbie, I believe we are making love,'
said Hac, putting his arm about her waist.

Hey ! ' shouted a rough voice ; and Hac, dropping
his arm, turned, and saw the grieve swinging
alone the careen walk behind the trees. Tibbie
trembled, and became pale with excitement. Hac
had never seen the grieve's face wear such an
expression ; he looked mad with anger.

You good-for-nothing, scoundrelly fellow ! ' exclaimed
the grieve, coming down upon 'che pair ;
'you were train' to free her mou'. You needn't
deny it, sir ; I saw you wi' my own eyes.'

Hac had never been called a scoundrelly fellow
in his life. He felt a little bewildered, as if he had
been struck a blow in the face.

You don't mean me ? ' he said, looking at the
wrathful father.

None o' your pretence, sir. I see through your
double-sacredness. I understand your mini manners.
I saw you making an effort to free my daughter's
mou'. Od's sake, if I had my wuU o' you, it's a
stick you would get to your back. But I'll away

toon to the manor and tell your father. I'll let
him know that you'll not be permitted with
impunity to free the mou' of Alexander Baxter's
daughter.'

You're forgetting yourself, Mr Baxter, to talk
to me about using a stick.'

Go home this moment ! Go home to your
mother ! ' cried the grieve, unfastening the gate
and thrusting his daughter into the field.

Tibbie fled over the green uplands, the tears
rushing down her cheeks.

'You can be very brutal when you like, Mr
Baxter,' said Hac. ' If you hadn't been her father
I should have thrashed you for your rough
behaviour to her.'

'Od's sake, this is a pretty state o' matters !
When did you take my daughter under your
charge ? It's some few years since that job
devolved upon me ; and until the man who is to

HACO THE DREAMER

marry the girl comes for her, that job remains
mine, Mr Hac Spens.'

The vehemence of his wrath had begun to
expend itself. He rapidly calmed down now.

Well,' said Hac, ' I suppose you mean to tell
my father ? '

It's what you deserve,' said the grieve. ' You
ought to know, sir, with your upbringing, that it
is not a gentlemanly thing to free the mou' of a
girl, an', maybe, break her heart and her mother's,
and bring grief and trouble and pain upon all
around ; and it's not a thing that I will tolerate.
But I have no intention of telling your father. I
will be content to take your promise that you
will never do such a thing again. Is it a promise ? '

Of course, I promise,' said Hac. ' But you
take it awfully seriously. After all, what great
harm was there in one kiss ? Will you tell me that,
Mr Baxter ? '

Mr Baxter looked at him solemnly, without
anger ; all his anger had spent itself.

'Your knowledge o' life, young sir, is not as yet
over deep. You need a little teaching — a little
experience ; and when that comes you'll not think
it's such a light thing as you suppose. You that's
rich and high up, and always likely to be — you'll
not think it such a light thing to fill the head of a
young' girl with delusions.'

I didn't think of it any more than that butterfly
does among the petals of that flower.'

Very pretty, Mr Hac. But what do we know
aV)out the thoughts of the flower ? The butterfly's
gone, but the flower's not the same flower. Now
I have your word of honour ? '

I promise you.'

END ntF VOL I
VOL. I O

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hacodreamertaleo02sime

^ ^nlt of Scott cfatesitj life

BY

WILLIAM time

AUTHOR OF ' KING CAPITAL,' ' TO AND FRO,' 'THE RED ROUTE,' ETC.

11^ TWO VOLUMES

VOL. II

|£ n I) n :
REMINGTON & CO., PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN



[all RIGHTS RESERVED

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I
On the Firth 1

CHAPTER II
Lady Mary 19

CHAPTER III
Sketching . 24

Chatter IV
Back to College 42

CHAPTER V

Expostulations 55

CHAPTER VI
Botanizing 69

CHAPTER VII

A Row and its Consequences . 85

CHAPTER VIII

A Ni;\\ Class . . . . . . . 99

CHAPTER IX

FjAULY [NrOHNING . . . , . .115

CHAPTER X
AiHiNf; TiiK Children . • . . . 130

CHAPTER XI
Recruiting; 145

CHAPTER XII

The Spens Splint 156

CHAPTER XIII

Exhausted Anger . . . . .172

CHAPTER XIV
Proposal of Marriage 18G

CHAPTER XV
An Incident . . . i>05

CHAPTER XVI
The Penny Gaff iM.S

CHAPTER XVII
Apprehension . . . . . .2 29

C Chapter XVIII
T HE End 243

■i^'^^-^

CHAPTER I

ON THE FIRTH

Hac was dreadfully ashamed of himself after
the grieve left him and strode across the field
behind his daughter. He went down on the
beach, and, sitting upon a boulder, he clasped
his knees with his hands and gazed into space.
Why, had not Tree, the consummate artist, kissed
Christie's landlady behind the door, and nobody
had said a word — not even the very nearly Rev.

VOL. II A

Mr Watson ? The landlady herself had not
said anything. He did not suppose that what
a consummate artist might do with impunity
should be denied to him. Of course Tibbie was
different from Christie's landlady; she was out
of sight prettier, and everything had led up to
the circumstance as naturally as could be. He
had read a poem to her, and her eyes had
sparkled, and she looked as if she would have
liked to have a poem written to her, too.
A few changes of name, indeed, would have
suited the poem to Tibbie's hair, face, and complexion,
though she did not the least resemble
Lady Mary : her honest red hands not being at
all like Lady Mary's. If he had only thought
of it in time, he might have given the poem to
Tibbie, with a few changes of name. But then
there was the grieve and his inexorable wrath —
the gooch. friendly Mr Baxter, who had been
bu tina to hide all his life, and who, all of a

sudden, had been transformed to an enemy.
Really, it seemed as if he were destined to
please nobody, and the thought which struck
him beside Mons Meo came back to him ao^ain.

O CD

He would go away and drown himself. Perhaps
he mio'ht meet his mother ao^ain when he was
drowned; at any rate, he could not possibly
meet anybody or anything more inexorable than
the grieve, if he did strip himself of his life.

Yet, after all, as he went on thinking about
it, here were the birds singing in the rear of
him, the sun warming the beach at his elbow,
and his yacht launched ready for a sail into
the North Sea, if he cared to take it. To be
sure, he cared ; he would go up to the grieve's,
renew his promise to Mr Baxter, and ask Sandy
to accompany him. Yes ; there was a light
breeze shimmering on the surface of the Firth;
it was hio^h time he were afloat. He would o-q
up to the Manor and put on his yachting

gear, then he would see Sandy and carry him
off.

Sandy was out at the time Hac approached
the Mains, so was his father, as he was very
glad to hear from Mrs Baxter, who received him
with a bright smile and a long grasp of his
hand.

Eh, well, now, Mr Hac, you're not so strong-looking,
after your session, as you should be.
You've been working too hard. Come away in
and sit down.'

Hac saw Sandy's medals on the mantelpiece,
and sighed as he sat down.

No ; I'm sure I haven't overworked myself.
You don't catch me coming back with any of
these things, Mrs Baxter. I've got nothing.'

'Oh, but you're young 3'et. You have plenty
of time before you.'

So has Sandy.'

He hasn't so much time as you, for a grieve's

son maun work for his bread. You have it all
made for you, ready baked, Mr Hac. It's a
great difference, at all times.'

I didn't think of that,' said Hac. ' Your
fowls are looking in fine condition, Mrs Baxter.
What a bantam, to be sure ! Where did you
get him ? A bantam and his wife ! What a
regular little randy ! How he crows, to be sure !
with a rapidity and a decision worthy of a more
important fowl.'

He rules the farmyard,' said Mrs Baxter. 'He'll
come in, if I ask him. Tuck, tuck, tuck ! tuck,
tuck, tuck ! teukie, teukie, teukie ! '

The bantam, lifting his heels with a contemplative
air, slowly entered, followed by his wife,
who devoured all the corn thrown down by Mrs
Baxter.

He's for a' the world like a wee popular lord,'
said Mrs Baxter. ' Look at the way he bauds his
head ! Tuck, tuck, tuck ! teukie, teukie, teukie ! '

You're for the sea ? ' said Mrs Baxter, starting
the conversation again, which was interrupted by a
sorrowful expression coming over Hac's face.

Yes. But do you know, Mrs Baxter, I'm awfully
sorry. I've offended Mr Baxter deeply. I never
offended anybody as much. I don't think he'll
ever speak to me again. And I always used to
like him so much.'

Whisht ! ' said Mrs Baxter. ' Tibbie auld me.
She's a bold, thoughtless girl, and I've given her
my mind. I know that you never meant anything
whatever. Do I no mind, myself ? ' she continued,
wiping her mouth. ' Ay, well that ! You see
they've made Alexander an elder, and he's ta'en up
wi' serious notions ; not but what he's right in
some part of them. But he should discriminate.
Diana you fash. And Alexander, he'll never think
o't again. Here's Sandy. Sandy, this is Mr Hac,
wanting you to take a sail.'

Where's Tibbie ? ' asked Sandy, in a gloomy

accent, holding out his hand to Hac. ' Spens,
you've made my father very angry he said.

Mrs Baxter lifted her hands with some surprise-here
was Sandy calling the laird's son by his last
name. Then she looked at the medals on the
mantelpiece, and felt that her son was justified in
calling anybody anything. She had heard him allude
to Sir Thomas himself as ' Old Free Incisions,' that
very day, and she looked out of the window to see
if the sky was falling ; but the sky didn't fall.
Spens ' and ' Old Free Incisions ! ' Well, well, she
mentally agreed with her husband's comprehensive
summary of surprise, ' Od's sake ! I do not know
what the world's coming to.'

'See,' she continued, averting her son's seriousness,
' here's your auld oilskin. Go away down to
the shore with Mr Spens and get your sail.'

Sandy put an oilskin over his arm and followed
Hac, who exclaimed,

I wish people didn't take things so seriously.'

The pungent sea breeze blowing freely over the
fields soon worked all the seriousness out of Sandy's
mind.

By the time they had reached the shore he had
forgotten about Tibbie and his outraged dignity asher
brother. He was quite prepared to throw
himself into his sail with full enjoyment, and while
Hac ran over to the Manor to get fishing lines and
something from Isaac to eat, Sandy went on board
and got out a jib and fore-sail.

Hac rushed over the shingle and joined him, his
arm full of lines and ' grub,' as he called his lunch.

She's beginning' to strain at her anchor already,'
cried Hac. * We can get out with a jib and foresail,
Sandy. Wait a minute till I come aboard,
before you hoist the mainsail. There's a big breeze
coming in from the mouth of the Firth. We'll cut

across to Cramond in no time, or it'll Don't

drop the lines. I say, Sandy, I don't feel like a

man a bit. I feel every bit as young as I was
before I went to the University — don't you ? '

I'm older than you said Sandy, seriously, hauling
away at the anchor chain. ' There's too much
sunlight, man, for us to get any fish. They'll not
take with all that sunshine upon the water.
They'll see the hooks.'

Oh, rather ! Yes, I should think they would
see the hooks. We haven't got a morsel of bait —
not a single herring, mussel, cockle, or limpet. I
saw a lot of fish drying outside the garden wall,

Sandy. You might Well, no ; let's toss for it.

I mean, you know, that it's jour turn to go for
something. I went for the lines and the lunch.
But let's toss. Heads or tails, Sandy ? '

Tails,' said Sandy, with a rope in his teeth and
his hands still on the chain.

Heads it is. No, it isn't ; the half crown's comedown
sideways. I'll make it the best of three.
Heads or tails, Sandy ? '

Tails it is this time said Sandy.

Yes, but it's best of three. This shot decides it.
We stand at one to me and one to you. Heads or
tails, Sandy ? '

'Tails.'

You ao for the bait. Heads it is. You'll find a
cod or something drying just outside the wall.
Brings the whole of him, and never mind Isaac or
anybody if he looks over the garden wall and says
Hey, leave that alone, will ye ! " You might
double up as you go under the wall, in case anybody
does see you and make a row.'

Hac watched Sandy going along the walk
outside the wall. He looked preternaturally innocent,
and did not double up as he had been advised.
On the contrary, he looked over the wall, and began
conversing with somebody. No doubt it was Isaac.
At the same time he dropped his oilskin over a
cod, and, stooping, lifted both at once without

interrupting his conversation with Isaac, who
evidently suspected nothing.

After all, Sandy's a very good fellow in spite of
his medals,' reflected Hac, when he saw him sauntering
back with his booty, while Isaac's head
appeared at the wall looking after him.

Plenty of bait there, Sandy,' said Hac, bringing
the cod on board and settling himself at the
tiller, having: fastened the sheet of the main-sail
and seen Sandy seated at the foresail.

The breeze played softly on them as long as they
where within the lee of the land, but the gurgle of the
water had no sooner begun at the bows than Hac
roared,

We are Vikings, Sandy — Vikings from over the
seas ! Hang the hospitals, and the class-rooms, and
the degrees ! What do you think of them now? '

Oh, this is well enough, ' said Sandy, peering
beneath the sail. ' Starboard a little, Spens ; as
soon as we are out we will have a smashing

breeze. Keep your seat. She'll heel over to the
water's edge before she starts off up the Firth.
You're off for Cramond are you and the Queensferry
direction? '

Starboard it is, you prosy fellow. You decline
to become a Viking. I say, this is a stiffish breeze.
Glorious little Spray ! How she dips her head into
it! Yes, it is high time you put that waterproof
over you. You must be drenched with
that first dip. Come further aft.'

The little yacht soon responded to the singing of
the wind among: her cordage. Having felt the free
sweep of the breeze, she dipped her bow once, twice,
thrice, right into the waves, threw off a white surge
or two, and rushed up the Firth.

As they passed Binkie Manor, Isaac was shading
his eyes on a garden walk, and Sandy declared he
saw Sir Thomas looking at them out of a window.

Steady, Spens. Bring her out a little ; here's a
coaster from Alloa who won't move for us. I say,

we'll come very close to hitting her. Hang them •
they're taking the wind out of our sails Now the
sea is free before us all the way to Cramond.
Nothing but solan geese and seagulls.'

I believe, notwithstanding your dogmatic assertion,
that we shall have some very good fishing,
Sandy.'

The sky was blue above them. Only here and
there were there icebergs of white cloud sailing, as
the Spray sailed, swift and stately through the
celestial sea overhead.

Sandy,' cried Hac, looking up from his tiller
what are you and I after all, but a couple of fish
in the bottom of that deep sea, the atmosphere ? I
don't know much chemistry ; but all the difference
between air and sea seems to me that the sea is
thicker than the air, only another sort of air and
moveable land, as it were, where they can feed and
breathe, the cod, and ling, and flounders, and trout,
and salmon, and seal, and whale.'

Port 1 ' cried Sandy, looking at a rush of wind
which swept over the waves, as if a league of
invisible wings was hastening towards them, casting
a black shadow on the blue of the sea.

o

Port it is ! ' called Hac, as the yacht heeled to
the sea. ' Thank Heaven for a deep keel ! If we
were crank we should founder. How we spin
along ! '

'It'll take us two or three hours to come back,
if this wind doesn't lift,' cried Sandy.

Oh, never mind the hours. Who cares for the
hours, or time, or eternity, or anything but the
breeze, and the sea, and the sunshine, and the
violet sky ? Port ! yes, all right. I am going
straight in on the red target of the artillerymen,
then we will sweep the coast and throw out an
anchor opposite Cramond. Perhaps we will go
up and look at Barnbogle. D'ye know, I rather
like that ivy-covered ruin on the shore. I am
going to write a poem about it. Would you like



to hear the plot of it ? I say, Sandy, come further
aft; there's no necessity for you getting all that
spray. Here's a flask for you and some sherry.
Don't take it all. Listen to me singing a song.'
And Hac broke out with —

At the castell of Edinbruch,
Upon the bank faith green and rough,

As mine alone I lay,
With paper, pen, and ink in hand.
Musing, as I could understand

Of the sudden decay
That unto this pair nation

Appearance does come ;
I sand our congregation

Was cause of all and some ;
Wha's actors, instructors,

Has blinded them sae lang.
That blameless, and shameless,

Faith rich and pair they wrong.'

Helm down ! ' shouted Sandy.

'But the great God Omnipotent, (sang Hac),

That secret thoughts does pierce,
Relieved has that innocent

Out of their rage sae fierce ;
Provided and guided

Her to an uncouth land,
Where wander and slander

With enemies name she sand.'

It's a bonny bit ballad, too,' said Sandy. ' But

if you run in too close you'll be ashore, an' we'll
have to swim foret.'

Thus styled, beguiled (sang Hac),
They will but get the glaiks ;
Come they here, thir twa year,
They sail not miss their pains.'

Mind that roller, Spens ! Duck ! Hold on !
That was a narrow shave.'

Sae muse them '

sang Hac, dripping from the wash of a wave
which had gone from stem to stern.

Sae muse them and chuse them,
What part they will ensue ;
Forsake them, or back me,
They sail drink as they brew. '

Sandy crawled aft and brought down the mainsail
; he had already reefed the jib and fore-sail.

Now, out with the anchor ; we've got right into
a flock of seagulls, and will catch no end of fish.
That's the River Almond coming out over there.
If the tide was high, we might run up and get a
bannock at the inn. Off" goes the anchor ! '

There's no bottom to it,' said Hac ; ' we'll drift.

Never mind ; tear up the cod, bait the hooks, and
trust in Providence.'

Trust in Providence ! Ay, ay,' said Sandy;
when the anchor's got a hold I'll begin to think
about it.'

Sandy, I believe you're a regular Davie Hume.
You don't believe in anything but facts. It's my
opinion that Scots haven't an ounce of belief among
them, from the Tweed to John o' Groats, for all that
they go on about kirks and all that.'

Have you a sinker on your line ? ' asked Sandy.

Yes, as much lead as would roof Binkie. Oh,
confound it, Sandy ! before I have my line in you
have brought up a fish — a great, white, fat brute.
What is it ? Sandy, I wish you would help me to
take the hooks out of the ravel. They're all mixed
up. You'll exhaust the bank before I start at all.'

Hey,' said Sandy, impatiently, passing over his

own line to Hac, and unravelling and baiting his

hooks in the twinkling of an eye.

VOL. II B

Another fish, Sandy : I say, this is rather slow
work. Lot's change places. They seem all to have
got to your side.'

Change away,' said Sandy, pulling in fish after
fish, while Hac brought up his hook time aftertime
without anything on it.

Sandy,' he said, when the latter had covered
the deck with whiting's, while he had caught none,
I don't think I am of any use in the world.'

You cinna need to be,' said Sandy, sardonically.

LADY MARY

Lady Mary Hay sat at breakfast in Great Kino-street.
She was arrayed in a light morning-gown,
which took from her the appearance of the nursing-sister.
She was sipping coffee and reading a poem.
It was Hac's anonymous effusion which had
reached her by that post. She saw through it at
once. She saw through his disguised handwriting
understood the allusions to her work in the
wards; she smiled at the terse expressions of

adoration ; she sighed as she smiled, and laid down
her admirer's verses.

Poor boy ! ' said Lady Mary, ' his heart is not in
his work. I am afraid he will have to change if
he is to step into his father's reputation. He is a
poet, I greatly fear. Unhappy boy ! And yet how
delicate his compliments are ! how musical ! I hope
I hope, poor boy, he is not in love.'

Lady Mary was about Hac's age, but she had
more experience of the world. She had been
greatly persecuted by lovers. She did not much
like love-making. It seemed to her that life was
too serious for dalliance. With so many blind, and
halt, and lame on her mind, she could not respond
to the ardour of those who had approached her
with compliment. It was affectionate persecution
which had driven her, at last, to decide to attach
herself to a ward. But Hac's affection did not
disturb her.

I think a poem a good safety-valve,' said her

ladyship, again taking it up and reading it, with
great deliberation, first to herself, then aloud ; ' a
good safety-valve,' she said, locking it away in an
escritoire.

She then sat down and wrote a note to Hac.
'It will,' she reflected, 'be better that the poor
boy should know that I understand where the
poem came from. It will save him from illusion.
He must know how I regard it. "Dear Mr Spens,"
she began, and promptly tore up the sheet of
paper, emblazoned with the Strawfield arms — a
rick of hay, with a rake leaning on it. "Dear
Hac," she resumed, and again tore up her paper.
Then she unfolded the poem, spread it out in
front of her, and rapidly wrote off:

My dear Hac — This is a very charming way
you have taken to remind me of your existence.
The poem you have addressed to me is at once
melodious and strong. The expressions of ardent

attachment I take to be addressed to some being
of your imagination. I, at ^ least, have not the
pleasure of her acquaintance, but should suppose
that she must be very good and beautiful from
what you say of her. I shall be at Farmline one
of these days, and may make it convenient to call
on Sir Thomas. I think of going to Vienna fora
little. I fear there is no chance of our Scotch
University seeing its way to opening its doors for
the suppliants. In Vienna we can obtain degrees
and practise our profession. You see, my views
have enlarged themselves since I saw you last.
Then I was content to be a nursing sister; now
I am content with nothing short of beings a recto
nosed expert in the line I have taken up. Sir
Thomas' advice will be invaluable to me in this
new undertaking.'

Then she put the poem away again, and sat
down to stare into the fire. Lady Mary's pulses

had been stirred by the unequal contest which the
ladies who wished to become doctors had waged with
the University. She felt herself so competent to discharge
well all the duties of a doctor, that she
sympathised heart and soul with those who clamoured
for admittance at the University gates, but who
were elbowed out by a jealous professors. Yes,
she would make herself one with them in their
aims ; but, instead of staying in Edinburgh to fight
the reluctant professors, she would go to Vienna,
graduate, and undertake what work she liked, and
where she thought it was most wanted.

That silly boy ! ' she repeated, going to her
escritoire and again unfolding the poem, ' he means
me, I suppose. He lavishes on me all his adjectives.
He is — yes, he is in love with me. Silly, silly, boy!'
But Lady Mary put her lips to it before she fastened
it away, out of sight ; and all that morning she
thought of nothing but Hac Spens.

SKETCHING

Nothing of importance occurred during Hac's
holidays till the very end of them. He spent his
month at the Manor in the most enjoyable way.
He forgot his difficulties on that golden shore,
passing with Sandy a large part of his time on
the water. They made schemes for their coming
session. Hac was to co-operate with Sandy.
The latter did not need to take botany and
zoology — they wci'e not inclined in the extra-mural
course ; but he determined to take them

with a view to passing the M.B. examination at
the London University later on, so that the pair
should do a large portion of their work in
common.

See if I don't beat you,' said Hac, ' in fair
competition.'

I would like to cut in on a couple of University
medals said Sandy ; ' it would keep up
the prestige of the extra-mural. I know my
professors would like me to run away with a
botany or zoology medal.'

You'll not find it so easy, with three or four
hundred fellows in a class, to run away with a
medal. It's not exactly the same thing as competing
with one's self, you know, Sandy.'

No,' said Sandy, who busied himself, more or
less, all the recess, with making dissections of mice
and fish, and in pulling the petals out of flowers ;
while Hac lay much on his back, and watched
the clouds floating' overhead in the sea of blue.

He obeyed his father's injunctions literally, and
not only did not speak of medicine, but even succeeded
in driving most thoughts about it from his
mind. But he went on reading irrelevant volumes
of poetry and building up castles in the air, which
were not, perhaps, meant to stand the cold blasts
which would blow upon them from the world of
real life. That did not hinder Hac's building
them, however, as he listened to the sounds of
melody which floated round the Manor. The event
which occurred towards the end of the recess was
the appearance one morning of Eli Tree upon the
beach of one of the little bays, his easel mounted
with a large piece of canvas, and a picture growing
under his hand, representing the wild rolling of
the surf upon the shingle, a bit of background in
which the gnarled roots of the trees were represented
twisting themselves into the bank in
serpentine coils. Hac was surprised and delighted
to see his friend. He knew that many of his

canvases had been taken from that shore. But to
see him actually at work on one of the Binkie
bays, it made Hac run along the shingle and
grasp his hand with tremendous fervour.

I say, my young cock,' said Tree, ' you'll get
over that habit of shaking hands — gripping a
fellow's hand as if yours were a vice. Your
'perfervidum ingenii will cool a little when you
have .shaken as many hands as I have.'

I am sorry my cordiality offends you, Tree.
I only meant to welcome you to our sea-coast.
Besides, I'm awfully glad to see your good blowzy
face and jolly appearance.'

When you have shaken as many hands as I
have, Spens,' proceeded Tree, ' the offensive handshake
of persons who imitate the Freemason
signs, so as to make a shilling or two ; the handshake,
prolonged like the working of a pump, of
people who don't care a rap if you drop dead at
their feet ; the wibbledy-wobbledy shake of the

fatuous ; the shake of the indifferent, which is no
shake, but only a closing of the fingers ; the patronizing
shake of the cad, who puts out one digit,
and expects no foot to be raised in reply '

I say. Tree, you are about as eloquent as poor
Mr Watson, that you turned out of Christie's that
night;

'Then I say, my young friend, that you will
acquire the habit of making a moderate, reasonable
shake go a long way. It commits you to
nothing, and performs all the office of cordiality
required from one man to another when he meets
him.'

Well, I'm sorry I was so familiar, Tree. I didn't
mean it. I won't do it again. Give me your hand
again, and let me practise this new, chilly, decorous
shake that you recommend.'

Hac took Tree's hand, and gripping it, went
over all the shakes in turn.

Now, that's about enough, Spens. What have
you been doing with your holidays ? '

'Not much. Lying out on the Firth for the
week past. You see my little Spray anchored out
there ; we can run her — Sandy and I — with a good
steady wind, as fast as a screw. I love her as if
she were a life, and shall be sorry to leave her
behind.'

Why should you leave her behind ? There's
plenty o' room in Granton Harbour for a thing o'
that sort. I know some men who go down therefrom
Edinburgh and spend a day on the water
now and again. There's nothing to hinder it.'

'Tree, you're a genius. That's precisely what
I'll do. I'll have her taken over to Granton
Harbour, and get a sail now and then. I say,
there's an idea for you ! I know Lady Mary
puts her carriage at the disposal of some of the
children from her ward, and drives them out to
the Pentland Hills now and again. Why shouldn't

I lend them my yacht, and take them down to the
Bass Rock ? I believe Lady Mary would come too.
Tree, I never thought of it before. That's exactly
what I'll do. It would do some of those poor pale-faced
children no end of good.'

'Yes, it might spoil them for practical life, and
if there was anything of a sea on the Firth, it
might make their faces a degree paler.'

I can't make you out, Tree. You make a happy
suggestion one moment, and withdraw it the next.
But, by the way, talking of Lady Mary Hay, she's
coming to Binkie to-day. I shouldn't wonder if
she were on her way now.'

You're mighty fond of talking about Lady Mary
Hay,' said Tree, resuming his brush and dashing at
the canvas. ' There you are, now,' he said. * There's
that seagull caught at the moment he was turning
to the sun, with the o-lint on his winthrop in
exactly as it flashed out there.'

• I don't know,' how you do it, Tree. If I wore

dashing at the canvas that way, I should only
make a smudge. It really is, now, an exquisite
bit of painting. Father will want to buy that, I'm
convinced. I know he bought a view up among
the fields one day from an artist he knew nothing
about, and who had no reputation whatever.'

You mean that, like me, perhaps he wasn't an
Associate or an Academician. That sometimes
means, my boy, that an artist is a bad diplomatist,
and doesn't know how to pull the tea-party wire to
advantage.'

It's lunch time. Suppose you come up with me
and take this with us. I'll try and get father to
buy it. What would you think it worth ? '

As much as the scene itself is worth. No money
can buy it. The waves are rolling there ; the
roots are twisting there ; the gull's wings are
glinting there, under my hand, as they are rolling,
twisting, and glinting under the hand of the
Creator in the scene itself.'

Still, I suppose you must sell your pictures.'
It's a mere side issue,' said Tree. ' It has
nothing to do with the creation.'

Come along, then. I'll carry it very carefully.'
The pair went over the rocks and ascended the
garden walks, and in front of the Manor found
Lady Mary Hay and Sir Thomas Spens pacing to
and fro. They were in close, earnest conversation ;
Sir Thomas apparently expostulating — Lady Mar^^
defending her position with quiet self-restraint.
Tree was struck with her ladyship's appearance.

I understand,' he said ' why it's always Lady
Mary this, and Lady Mary that ; and Lady Mary
used to say, and Lady Mary thinks, and I'll ask
Lady Mary. Hang it ! I'll have her in a foot or
two of canvas before I leave jon. I like that
masterly quietness and subdued dignity.'

They came up to the front of the house, Hac
carrying Tree's picture at arm's length. His arm
trembled a little as Lady Mary looked at him, and

he felt the blood mount in confusion to his brow.
He was not able at once to shake hands with her ;
nor could he unceremoniously put down Tree's
scene, in case of an abrupt expression of opinion
from that worthy calculated to shock the ears of
Lady Mary.

'Well said Sir Thomas, a little hastily — he had
evidently been arguing a disagreeable question —
who's your friend, Hac ? '

Mr Eli Tree,' said Hac, looking affectionately
at Lady Mary, and seeming to feel the weight of
her letter, which reposed in his breast pocket.

Eh ? eh ? ' said Sir Thomas, with a mixture of

approval and alarm. He had heard of Tree's

pictures ; but he had also heard of his antics, and,

as he believed that evil communications corrupt

good manners, he was not as cordial as he might

have been. But Lady Mary smiled on him, and

said,

Mr Tree, we have one of your exquisite land-vol.
II C

scapes at Strawfield. Whenever I wished to feel
the large atmosphere of the shore and the sea,
I looked at it and felt refreshed.'

I'm always pleased to know that my work is
appreciated,' said Tree, in a sturdy, downright
voice. ' I remember the picture you allude to.
I recollect selling it to your brother, the earl, on
the sea-shore, just as I want to sell this to you
now, Sir Thomas Spens. Throw the shadow on
it, Hac. Not so much. No, get out of the line
of the sun. There j^ou are, sir. What d'ye say
now ? Once, twice, thrice — eh ^ what d'ye say,
Sir Thomas ? '

Lady Mary looked a little shocked ; so was
Hac, who wished Tree would not adopt quite so
strong an auctioneers: tone.

Sir Thomas looked keenly at the picture.
Some of my brother surgeons are better judges
than I am ; but that's a very fair rendering, Mr
Tree, of one of my nooks on the shore. I don't

dislike it ; but as to purchasing it, that's quite a
different matter. I have a good deal of watercolour
and oil about the Manor — chiefly presents,
however, which cost me nothing.'

I never make presents,' said Tree, a little contemptuously.


What do you value it at ? ' asked the baronet.

I'll take your cheque for two hundred and fifty
pounds, if you please.'

What ! ' said Sir Thomas. ' I'll be bound to say
that is paying yourself at the rate of twenty-five
shillings a minute.'

It's paying myself at the rate of thirty shillings
a minute, if you like to take that view of it. But
will you please to remember the bitter long years
of privation and slavery I went through before I
could paint you or any other man this picture ?
Two hundred and fifty pounds, sir, or nothing.'

Do buy it, father. Tree can get anything he
likes for it on the other side of the water.'

Here, Isaac,' cried Sir Thomas, suddenly, caught
by the new light thrown upon the picture and the
glint of the gull's wings. ' Take this and place it
carefully on the frame at the side of my study
fire. We'll think about the purchase afterwards.
If you are like me, Mr Tree, you will consider
that money is no part of your professional consideration.
For my own part, I regard my surgical
operations as priceless. They have no equivalent
in coin.'

Yes,' said Tree, ' that's how I look at it, too.
There are kinds of work, like yours and mine,
Sir Thomas, which have no equivalent in money ;
but, for all that, I always insist on having my
price.'

Lady Mary had walked otl" with Hac. Sir
Thomas followed his newly-acquired picture into
the house. Tree stood looking down over the sea
towards Edinburgh ; then his eye lighted on the
boy and girl, as he thought them.

It looks very like love,' he said. ' And pretty
love-making it will be between such a pair. That
gay young fellow, with as much knowledge of life
as a calf, and the Lady Mary concealing under a
sweet demeanour plenty of important knowledge
of it. I'll ask them to oblige me. I say, my man,'
addressing Isaac, who came to the door, with no
visible intention of doing anything, 'if you'll go
down the garden and over the rocks to the bay
you saw on my canvas, you'll come to a portfolio
and a box of pigments. Bring them round this
way, will you ? — I'm going to paint.'

I never leave the house,' said Isaac. ' It's not
my province to leave the house. We're all very
satisfied with your picture. '

That's very good o' you, now,' said Tree, touching
his hat with mock humility. ' Get a hold o'
somebody whose province it is to leave the house.
Oh, you're interested in the young couple, are you ?

That's what you came to look at ! What's old Bolus
doing ? '

Sir Thomas is searching for his cheque-book,'
said Isaac, with marked dignity of utterance.

Then, my good fellow, run along for those things
that I left on the sea-shore, or '

And Tree made a very good imitation of the
growl of a tiger — so good, in fact, that Isaac
instantly returned to the house and despatched a
smart boy in buttons for the implements of the
artist.

Those are glass eyes,' said Tree, ' you have in
your head, I suppose ? ' as Isaac leant up against
the doorway and scrutinized the rocky spot where
Hac and Lady clary had disappeared. ' The one
nearest me is glass anyhow, and a precious lot of
bottle-green in it, too. Oh, yes, they're loth glass.
A wonderful fellow old Spens ! Don't yon feel
them rather heavy in your head, now? — like a

couple of marbles, for example. Pity the poor
blind man !'

Isaac curled his lips contemptuously as he looked
at the ' mad painter,' and banged the door with
considerable velocity.

Tree descended the garden, took his implements
from the boy who had gone for them, and set out
in search of Lady Mary and Hac.

Hac was sitting on the parapet wall at the foot
of the garden, and Lady Mary was talking to him
in an earnest voice.

Sorry to interrupt you,' said Tree ; ' but I want
a loan of an attitude for a few minutes. I am sure
your ladyship has enough of good-nature to oblige
me by sitting on that wall, with Hac's arm round
your waist.'

Hac frowned upon Tree ; the Lady Mary turned
and, with great sweetness, said,

There are some requests I shall grant to no one
on earth. That is one of them.'

Give me the honour of a sitting, Lady Mary
Hay, in any attitude you like, with or without
Hac Spens?'

I would rather not,' said Lady Mary.

It would put me under eternal obligation.'

That's a long period to carry a debt of gratitude
for a trifle.'

A trifle be it then, Lady May. Please to
regard it as that, and let me have you as Youth at
the prow and Pleasure at the helm,'

'Tree, you have no constructive genius out of
landscape.'

As youth at the prow, if you please. Lady Mary'
Yes, thanks ; by sitting a couple of yards apart
from Spens, you give sufficient space for an imaginary
boat. Youth, yes ; Pleasure at the helm. Take
your seat, Spens, as you would in your own
pleasure-boat. Now, Pleasure ! now, Youth : a
fair wind to you, and a long voyage : and. Youth,

not so sad — not so sad ! Pleasure, not so elated.
There, going, once — going twice — Youth at the
prow and Pleasure at the helm. It's a masterpiece
Now, you don't want me any longer.'

BACK TO COLLEGE

Hac returned to Edinburgh in low spirits. The
afternoon he had spent with Lady Mary was, indeed,
a memory worth having. He thought he
could survive upon it for a considerable time ; but
what made him miserable was that he would be
obliged, after the sinner session was over, so to
survive.

Lady Mary had made up her mind to leave the
angry turmoil of agitation which had set in upon
the ladies who wished to study at Edinburgh, and

to betake herself to Vienna, where a diploma was
open to her, if she could win it. Sir Thomas had
urgently represented to her that she was giving
up the splendid privileges of her womanhood by
attempting to enter a field consecrated to men.
He had used all the arguments in his repertory,
but only to find that Lady Marj^ seemed more
and more determined to go to Vienna and get her
degree. She was still, however, to abide by the
hospital for the summer months. But the prospect
of her going abroad seemed to rob Edinburgh
of all its attractions for Hac. He went
back to his rooms in Queen Street, disheartened.
He thought they smelt musty. He found Mrs
Ramsay's greetings a little offensive in their
effusiveness. The bitter hours of the winter
seemed to hang about the window-curtains and
to pervade the furniture.

Three letters on the mantelpiece, in Roger
Thorburn's hand, completed the disenchantment

of his return to liberty; for on opening them
he discovered that one of them contained a reminder
of money due for the dead man's widow.
Another one emphasized the statement and suggested
a menace. The third announced that if
the weekly instalments were not paid, recourse
would be had by the friends of the murdered
one to the machinery of the law.

Along with the letters, Roger enclosed a pamphlet
by himself, called Post Obitum. It was a singular
little treatise, composed for the benefit of
invalids, and, to Hac's amazement he saw the
letters M.D., LL.D., after the quack's name.

He then knew that he had executed his threat,
and applied to the little Dutchman who obtained
quack degrees for five pounds a-piece.

The same day he went up to the quadrangle of
the University. It was very unlike the busy winter
months. There were no art students, with their
shining, morning faces ; no law students, beguiling

to look cynical, because of the foretaste of a knowledge
of human character ; no divinity students
carrying their heads high, with the conviction that
they might lecture crowned heads from pulpits
and be themselves not a pin the worse.

It was the summer session, and that belonged
to the medical students. The others, as I have
said, had all gone home ; the poorer ones to work
on farms, to wait in hotels, to o-q out in fishing
boats, to teach, to preach, to do anything which
would turn over enough of money to enable them
to come up smiling next session ; the richer ones to
caudle at home, to spend five months in Berlin or
Heidelberg, or otherwise wait through the long
vacation for their next spell of reading.

Hac found the absence of variety in the faces a
new source of ennui. They were all men carrying
Quaint under their arms, most of them having an
imitative resemblance to this or that professor
whom they admired. They were more or less all

pocket editions of Dr Cmm, or Dr Dale, or Dr
John, or Dr Joiner. There was even the unremoved
whifF of mortality which clung to the
garments of the dissectors and operators.

Hac did not remain long in the quadrangle after
he had matriculated. He did not even go into
the library, for fear he might see Roger and be
pressed to a settlement of that abominable debt.
Nor would he accompany a little batch of matriculated
who asked him to go with them to Rutherford's.
Rather he would go back to Queen Street
and have his humble chop underdone. He was
struck with the different aspect of the faces
he met on the streets. Every other man was a
parson. He wondered at first if some large
funeral were collecting, to which so many menin
black swallows and white ' chokers ' were flocking.
Who could it be ? Going into a shop to buy
the photographs of the professors of zoology and
botany, he asked the man behind the counter

what was going on that so many, men wearing
black coats, were ebbing and flowing about the
street.

These are the country ministers, man, in for the
Assemblies. A shilling a-piece for the professors of
botany and zoology. That's a very good likeness
of "Vascular Tissue" — they never call him anything
else. That's a very fair representation of
"Bathybius," too — that's the only name he gets
over this counter. Familiarity, they say, breeds
contempt ; but I've never heard these men called
anything else, and they're as much respected as
any men in the metropolis. It doesn't do a
professor much harm to call him "Bathybius,"
or "Vascular Tissue," or what you like. Would
you not like to buy the photograph of "Old
Free Incisions ? " — a o^reat man like Sir Thomas
Spens should be in the hand of every student
with a shilling to spare.'

Is that my father you are talking about ?
asked Hac.

Are you a son of Sir Thomas' ? Well, imitate
him, then. Imitate him, and you'll be a credit
to your country. I sell more photographs of Sir
Thomas in a week than I do of " Vascular Tissue "
in a year. Ah, you'll be a student at the science
classes ! Here's a book, now, written by a very
clever fellow — a student like yourself — maybe a
few years older — out of the notes he took from
"Vascular Tissue's" lectures. Everything that
"Tissue" has to say you'll find in these notes —
a fine cramming book. If you'll buy a Liddell
and Scott and a Dr Ditto, I'll give you these
notes for nothing.'

That's very good of you,' said Hac, lighting a
cigar ; ' but I have a Liddell already. I shouldn't
think " Tissue " would care for your boning his
lectures. They say they are rather " petty" lectures,
at the best.'



On the contrary,' said the shopkeeper, ' he likes
it. He has now a European reputation.'

Did he not have that before ? '

Hardly. Here's another caird of your father —
a better one than you have purchased.'

No, thanks ; I mustn't spend any more money.'

In the street nothing but country ministers — men
who looked as if they had a superb ignorance of
the world and fine digestions. As they met each
other they often stopped and shook hands — not in
the temperate manner recommended by Tree, but
with a fervid grasp, which seemed to betoken a
long course of friendship, suppressed by absence.
They guffawed, too, in the open air, and thundered
their remarks, and seemed to make themselves
greatly at home on the pavements of the metropolis.
The more elegant and well-dressed pastors
frequented the Princes Street hotels. He saw the
parish minister of Binkie come out of one, wiping

his lips, so he concluded they must be Established
VOL. II D

Church men. He noticed the more devout and unworldly
in appearance go into temperance hotels —
among them the Free Church minister of Binkie —
so he judged these to be members of the Free
Church. The U.P. minister of Binkie he saw
ascending an omnibus, eating a mutton-pie like
Sandy's father, followed by four other pastors
eating * cookies.' They seemed to be going home
to lodgings, so Hac made up his mind that they
all belonged to the U.P. Church. It was his first
lesson in ecclesiastical polity. He sat down to his
chop, underdone, with Post Ohitum before him.
Then he fell asleep, and did not awaken till far on
in the evening, when he remembered it was time
for him to go up and see Sandy Baxter.

It was dark when he had o-one aloncr Nicolson
street to the lane which led to Salisbury Street.
When he reached it, he heard Sandy's voice exclaiming,


Oh, Robert ! you must lay down your end of

it for a little. I must tike a breath. It's dreadfully
heavy.'

Then Sandy stood panting audibly, while he
deposited the end of a huge chest. The man at
the other end of it grumbled, and said he had as
much pith in his ' pinked ' as Sandy in his whole
body. Hac recognized him as the policeman who
had appeared at Christie's.

Good gracious, Sandy ! what are you carrying
? ' asked Hac. ' I was coming along to see
you.'

It's my trunk,' said Sandy. ' That confounded
landlady of mine ! I left a pot of jam when I
went home, and she says she washed it out. I
had a couple of ounces of tea in a caddy, and she
says she doesn't know anything about it. And
the remains of my meal are all gone ; the window
was open, and the meal — there was so little of it —
got all blown about the floor one day with a wind
coming down Arthur's Seat. I suspected her

I IRRARY

before I left ; but now I'm sure of it, though
she's a very plausible character.'

He's a wee thing hard, and that's the fact,' said
the policeman, who was helping him to carry his
trunk. ' I get on with her fine.'

I daresay. You've all the law at your back.
But I'm a defenceless object, and I will not be
cheated.'

Diana be too anxious not to be cheated,' said
the policeman, taking out a red handkerchief and
wiping his brow. ' There's a time o' life when it's
better for a person to be cheated. Take a little of
it, and never let on you see it.'

That's what they call " salad days," isn't it,
bobby ? ' asked Hac.

Maybe it is,' said the policeman, placidly.
There's some people born green, and they remain
green all their days ; but that's not Sandy.'

No ; I'll never sit down under it,' said Sandy.
I'm going to Bucclcuch Place this time, Spens — to

a better house and a better room, though it's liio'h
up at the roof.'

Buccleuch Place ! Why, don't you know that's
where the Edinburgh Reviewers cultivated literature
on a little oatmeal ? I shouldn't wonder if
you got their room.'

Who were they ? ' asked Sandy.

Smith, Brougham, and a lot of others.'

Did they practise at the Infirmary ? '

'No.'

Oh, well, Robert, come along with my box. We
haven't very far to go. I'm paying two shillings a
week more, but I calculate I'll save it in 'buses and
nearness to my work. Besides, I'm getting more
for my teaching this year.'

I'll give you a hand now, Sandy ; you're
panting violently. Come along with your old
meal chest.'

Hac took it for half-a-dozcn yards, then
dropped the end on the pavement. ' Cabby ! ' he

shouted to a passing cabman. The cab stopped.
He asked the policeman to lift the box on to
the top and get inside ; but Sandy vehemently
protested, and ordered the man to drive on.

What ! spend a shilling on a cab ? That'll not
do for me.'

'Better that than burst a blood-vessel,' said
Hac, who felt his hands sore with the exertion
and his head Swimming.

I'll risk it said Sandy, panting, as they turned
into the broad square.

At the top of a long stair they found his room
waiting for him. It was double the size of the
one he had before. There was a carpet in it ;
some portraits on the walls ; two wide windows.

'Sandy, you're becoming a swell,' said Hac,
as he looked round about him.

Here's to you, then,' said the policeman, with
a tumbler of ale in his hand.

EXPOSTULATIONS

Sandy Baxter began the practice of his profession
to some extent as soon as he took a room in
Buccleuch Place. There was a student of the
Royal College of Surgeons who lived below him
who expected to become a full-fledged Royal
Collegian at the end of the year. Naturally, he
knew a great deal more than Sandy, having been
a o'ood student, who was advancing his double
qualification with honour. He practised a great
deal in a place called Potter's Row, and in the

Canongate and the Cowgate. He was already
so popular that he had more cases on his hand
than he could well undertake. Sandy's offer of
occasional assistance was very acceptable to him.
Not that Sandy had a great deal of time to bestow.
He had still a large quantity of teaching on hand*
out of which he paid his bills and fees ; and he was
anxious, seeing that for this summer session he
was a matriculated student of the University,
to stand well either in botany or zoology, just to
show the University fellows that an extra-mural
man had as good stuff as they. He had a devouring
anxiety, however, to excel in his profession,
and he thought he could not beo-in too soon to
understand sickness in its favourite haunts, to
note disease before it came to hospital at all,
and to see death where it overtook men amidst
poverty and privation. He went down, therefore,
with his friend to a Canongate close one evening,
to see a case of consumption in its last stage.

We can't do anything for her, you know,' said
his friend. ' She's dying rapidly ; but you'll be
able to see how death looks in these cases.'

As they went through the close, Sandy stopped
at a window emblazoned with the words, 'Roger
Thorburn, LL.D., M.D.' He looked in at the door,
and saw the seedy student who had been at the
operating-table when Spens administered the
chloroform. He called his friend's attention to
him, and passed on. At the far end of the close
they toiled up a rickety wooden stair, from which
much of the wood had been lifted to light fires.
Once or twice Sandy's left leg went through the
staircase as he ascended, and his friend explained
to him pleasantly that there was extensive practice
in sprained ankles and twisted thighs in these closes.

Nothing could be more miserable than the aspect
of the room to which the students went. There
was no fire in it ; there was no furniture ; the bed
seemed to be made of the planks lifted from the

staircase. The woman who reclined on it was a
mere shadow of humanity, breathing out her life,
as it seemed, into a foul corrupted air, for the room
contained about a dozen of women, arms akimbo,
waiting to see her die.

Sandy's friend, assuming the air of an experienced
physician, at once cleared the room
of half of them.

'You're only making it more difficult for her,*
he said, ' standing round here ; and it's nothing
but curiosity to see her. Out you go, now ! Out
you go ! You can sit on the stairs if you like.
There's a fine draught blowing in at the second
window down, and, if it's risky for coughs, it's
better than the air of this room. Out jon go ! —
more of you. You can't all be near relations,
and she hasn't more than half-an-hour to live.
She's quite unconscious. In half-an-hour it will be
all over.'

Sure, doctor, dear, it's see her toi we would like

to, now, the poor charlie', and put the salt on her
breast, and light the candles, and lay her out in a
decent way.'

If you had spent the wake-money on her sooner,
she needn't have been where she is,' said the collegian,
shoving his way through the group, which
declined to be pushed out of the room, and putting
his hand upon the woman's pulse. ' Baxter,' he
cried to Sandy, who, in the room of death, felt a
strong inclination to whisper and to look sympathetic,
whereas his friend rather increased the
sound of his voice, and behaved altogether as if
death were the normal condition of human beings,
which was to be taken as a matter of course, without
regret or emotion. ' Baxter, feel this. You
have a finer nerve than I, if you can make anything
out. I'll give her twenty minutes. Nothing can
be done for her.'

Before she died the room filled up again, and
wailing commenced, until a lane was made for a

burly little man, bearing a book and a crucifix. Ashe
came in, the collegian said,

Now we may go. That's the priest. It is his
turn. I'm sorry I had nothing better to show you
than that, Baxter. It's a very common case, indeed.
You will be none the worse, however, of knowing
the final symptoms.'

I think I will go in here for a little,' said
Sandy, as they passed out of the close ; and he bade
the collegian Good-nio-ht at Roger's door.

He had no previous intention of going in, for
Roger was nothing to him except a student with
a rather low reputation, whom he would have
made it his duty to avoid. But he saw Hac
Spens waiting at the counter, and he thought
he might as well have a look at Roger's shop
in Hac's company. As he lifted the latch and
went in, the head of Roger, adorned with a gay
ijuioking-cap, presented itself at the surgery door.
The adviser did not at first recognise Sandy. In

showing Spens into his own room, he came forward
to the counter, and asked, with a bland voice,

Is there anything I can do for you, sir ? '

'You have a short memory for faces,' replied
Sandy, ' for it isn't a year yet since I saw you in
the waiting-room of the hospital. I came in just
now because I saw Spens. With your leave, I'll
follow him into your surgery.'

Hac was vastly amazed to see Sandy in Roger's
surgery. He could not understand it, and he did
not like it ; it looked at first as if Sandy were
following him about.

I caught a glimpse of you,' exclaimed Sandy,
as I was coming out from a case with another
fellow. He's rather a swell in his way — Hudson,
from Peebles. Did you ever meet him ? He was
locur)% tenens for a fortnight to one of the Peebles'
doctors, and ran half over the county doing all
kinds of practice.'

Before he had his degree ? ' interpolated Roger,
with much severity.

He won't be M.R.C.S. till the end of autumn.'

'M.R.C.S. !' sniffed Roger. 'It's a degree that
no self-respecting man would acknowledge. They
give their double qualifications away, sir. They
positively put them in an envelope and give them
away.'

It's my father's degree,' said Hac.

Yes, but he belongs to the old school,' explained
Roger, ' when the period of apprenticeship was
only coming to a close, and the stricter days hadn't
arrived. But I approve of their being strict. It
keeps the profession select — it shuts the door upon
the quacks. But, upon my word, till they begin to
make it compulsory upon every medical man to
have an M.D. degree, I believe we will not have
gentlemen in every open berth.'

Roger spoke with the rapid ease of a physician
of long standing, with a select practice among the

nobility and gentry, whose expensive diseases
remunerated him royally. Sandy and Hac were
both a little taken in by his manner, and it was
with a little accent of timidity that the former
said,

And you've graduated, then ? '

Graduated and double graduated,' said Roger.
I am not only M.D., I am also LL.D. — a degree
that gentlemen of our profession don't always
earn. It requires a man to have, as I have,
devoted double the usual time to his course, and
then to graduate abroad.'

Oh, you're a foreign graduate ! ' said Sandy,
with some diminution of respect. ' Not American ? '

No, thank you.'

Not Vienna ? '

Vienna ! No. But let us pass off the topic.
My degrees are on the wall, for the inspection of
the world — both of them on rollers on the wall.
I believe, however, that I have something to say

to you that you don't want this gentleman to
hear, Mr Spens. We will go to the outer surgery,
if you please, for a minute.'

No occasion,' said Hac. ' Sandy Baxter knows
all about it He's quite as sorry as you, Dr Thor-burn,
for the cause of it.'

'You mean that death in the waiting-room,'
asked Sandy, ' and the payments Spens has been
making ever since? I think the whole thing is a
beastly imposition.'

The adviser turned his eye cruelly upon Sandy
and said nothing for a minute ; then he remarked
slowly,

Yes, I think it is rather a tax.'

I've just come in from a death, and, upon my
honour, the symptoms weren't the least like those
I remember in the waiting-room.'

'A death! Ampere?'

At the head of the close.'

Confound your impertinence ! ' said Roger,

angrily. ' You are not out of your first year, and
you come here, taking practice from a graduate.
That was my case, I tell you ; and it was nothing
short of an impertinence — if it wasn't even a crime
for you to take it up.'

It was Hudson's ; it wasn't mine. And I am
very certain there was no fee going, for there was
nothing in the room but mere tumble-down sticks
and a mattress.'

Roger cooled down a little as he perceived that
Baxter had come in of his own accord, without
being a companion, on the occasion, of Spens.

Fee ! no ; I should think not. Who ever heard
of medical students taking a fee ? '

Nobody,' said Sandy.

Well,' said Hac, getting a little tired of Roger
and his dingy surgery, ' there are some arrears,
Thorburn. I think it comes to six pounds what
I owe you.'

VOL. II E

Don't say yon owe it to me,' said Roger,
sharply.

Six pounds ! ' murmured Sandy.
All right. You know well enoufdi what I
mean. You are the fellow who pays the money,
and who interests yourself in the poor man's
family, and all that. Here you are ! '

If you take my advice, Spens,' said Sandy,
looking at the transfer of notes, ' you'll make that
payment the last you offer to him — the very last.
What you ought to do about it, is to go to a
lawyer. Who is this widow, Dr Thorburn ?
Where does she live ? How many children has
she ? Was she ever as well ois before as she is
now ? And where was this dead man buried ?

and who saw him buried ? and '

That's a mouthful,' said the adviser, sarcastically.
* Have you arranged the meeting, mr
Spens ? Am I cross-questioned at your instigation
by this rather raw youth ? '

No, no,' said Hac. ' It's only Sandy's dogmatic
way. He pitches himself into everything
like that,'

And are these payments to go on for ever,' continued
Sandy. ' Two pounds a-week for ever —
never to stop as long as Spens lives ? — week after
week two pounds — two pounds — all because a
fellow came into the hospital and, apparently died
under the towel ! I'm not so very certain that he
did die. I saw a fellow very like him one night
doing the spring-heel business under a lamp-post.
He seemed to me the living image of the man on the
table, I don't say there was jookery-pookery, but
I do say it looks to me very like as if there was.'

Roger opened a drawer, and, after rummaging a
little, he drew out a signed certificate of death and
handed it to Hac.

Have you seen that ? ' he asked.

Hac looked at the paper, and, shuddering,
dropped it.

No, and I don't want to see it. Mind your own
business, Sandy. This is a matter between me and
Thorburn. It's no use putting these questions.'

Sandy picked up the death certificate and read
it.

I can't make out the name,' he persisted.

Is it of the least consequence whether you can
or not ? ' asked Roger.

What is his name ? '

Sandy, mind your own business.'

Spens, you are hanging a millstone round your
neck, and it will draw' you under.'

BOTANIZING

Hac and Sandy saw each other every morning
now. The latter, on his way down to the Botanical
Gardens, called at Hac's, and, sometimes, helped
him to get out of bed, by the assistance of a
tumbler of cold water unceremoniously touched
from his wash-hand-stand to his pillow.

Get up, you lazy beggar ! ' Sandy would say,
when, with three or four hours' sleep to his own
account, he would come into Queen Street and

find Hac not yet dressed, after a sufficient night's
rest.

Hac was no longer troubled with the appearance
of the class-skeleton in his dreams, because,
though he had an announcement telling him that
a subject ' was at his disposal on the dissecting-room
table, he thought he could not possibly work
in a dissecting-room in summer, and decided not
to do it. He had anticipated attendance at Botany
and Zoology with enthusiasm. He was to give
Sandy a heat for at least one of the two medals.
It was a pleasure to him to think that Sandy
would not snatch at them with the same ease ashe
had .showed at the extra-mural, though he
would not o^rudoe him success, if it came to him.

Get up, you lazy beggar ! '

That had been Sandy's greeting once and again,
as he showed himself at Hac's bedroom door ; and
the pair had gone down the hill to the lecture-room



in the Botanical Gardens, thereafter, with
different degrees of enthusiasm.

Sandy did not care two farthings for all the
flowers in the world. He thought, on the whole,
that when they were dried and hung up in bunches
in the museum they looked very well. But a primrose
on a river's brim, was simply a primrose to
him, as was a moss rose, or a lily, or a pansy, or a
dahlia, or a tulip. Sandy perceived, however, that
a botanical knowledge was necessary to his becoming
a skilled member of the profession to which he
aspired ; so, without greatly caring about them, he
took up flowers with dogged enthusiasm, and in a
week knew infinitely more about them than Hac,
who loved them and saw in them thoughts too deep
for tears.

It was a misfortune for his knowledge that Hac
should see anything in a flower beyond the distinguishing
marks by which he could refer it to a
given species or genus. He saw in it, however,

HACO THE DREAMER

form and colour, which had an independent delight
of their own, apart from knowledge. It may have
been something in them which appealed merely to
the eyelash which lay at the back of his pupils'
whereas Sandy's view of them may have been the
view which touched the deeper centres of the
brain. Anyhow, the student who had the greater
joy in flowers was soon distanced in his knowledge
of them by the student who had the lesser, and
who, until the exigencies of his profession had
induced him to join the botany class, had never
given them a thought. To Sandy the vast models
in wood and wax, the glaring prints on the wall,
the uncouth phraseology of the classifications,
were an ever-renewed delight. To Hac they
brought nothing but bitterness and disappointment.
Knowledge, he thought, robbed the flowers of
their beauty, especially this awful bibliography,
dividing and subdividing, getting at every juice
and cell and atom, and calliope familiar loveliness

of the field and the garden by names which
seemed to have tumbled down the centuries from
schoolmen cradled among parchment. The result
was that, while Sandy, sitting next Hac, had his
note-book crammed with scientific observations,
Hac had his pages covered with little sketches
of leaves, and twigs, and wreaths, and petals.
The further result was that, the Botanic Gardens
being a place of enchantment in early summer,
the day after the first cards had been called, Hac
left Sandy's side and went out among the branch-shadowed
walks, and finding a pond, with water-lilies
pushing their way to the surface, he lay
on a green knoll at the back of it, and watched
the morning smoke of Edinburgh rising to the
sky, in a blue vista through the trees. Then,
when he got tired of that, he sauntered round to a
palm-house, where the air was tropical, and, sitting
at the foot of the columnar stems of the palms, he
constructed a legend of the Indies, which was very

pretty and enchanting as long as it lasted, but
which did not help him to know the essential difference
between Eheis and Rumex.

Sandy burst in upon him after lecture, as he sat
among the palms, and asked him anxiously if he
were ill, that he had not been present that morning.

No, not exactly ill ; but awfully tired of " Vascular
Tissue," Sandy. He makes me hate the
whole vegetable kingdom, that man. Formerly, I
used to sit down beside a bed of flowers and see
nothing but elves and fairies pirouetting among
them. Now that " Tissue " puts them under the
microscope, the elves have vanished, the fairies
have taken wing. I begin to regard them as
enemies of my eye'

'Spens, how will 3-ou ever be able to dispense
drugs if you don't know what the drugs are made
of ? This is fearful bosh you are talking. You
are just playing truant because you are mazy, and
shirking your work again. There is no pleasure

in competing with a fellow like you. You'll have
no chance of the medal if you go on like that.'

A further result was that, at the weekly examination,
when the professor, handling his models,
and, in his eagerness to impart and receive evidence
of knowledge, losing count of the bec^innino-s and
ends of his words, asked Hac, as an intelligent-looking
student, what he knew about a certain
order of flowers. Hac knew nothing, while Sandy,
promptly and vivaciously, told the professor everything
the professor had told Sandy eight days
earlier. At which the professor smiled, as if
Sandy had discovered hierocJdoe. It was the
same thing in the Natural History class. Sandy
and Hac sat together as the professor arranged
his buckles and his protoplasm, his birds' ' news '
and his ranee of animal bones which resembled
each other from the microscopic toe of a cheese
mite to the telescopic bone in the rear of the pad of
a foot of an elephant. He said they were all one,

and Sandy, writing his notes as fast as he could,
whispered to Hac,

Flat Darwinism ; I'm not going to be a monkeys
oblige him.'

To which Hac replied,

All one ? No, that's Spinoza, my dear fellow —
Spinoza. He's over at the other shop — Logic,
Metaphysics, &c. It's the biggest pot of the lot,
Spinoza's. He boils them all down, protoplasm,
bones, professors, and everything, into modes of
the ultimate. Now, old " Bathybius," though they
do say they mean to make a knight of him, is one
of the most genial of the professorial modes I have
listened to. I wish ' — looking at his watch — ' he
were an ultimate at this moment.'

Who is professor in this class, Mr Spens ? ' asked
Bathybius,' severely, having arrived half-way up
from the mite's toe to the elephant's and being
anxious to insert the human foot somewhere in
the comparative scale, so as to demonstrate to the

triflers in front of him that they were not so much
better than a tom-cat, as they supposed themselves.
Hac addressed himself to his notes at
once, wishing 'Bathybius' was inside the Pantheist's
pot, a restored and unconscious force, seeking for
personality again in a world of consciousness ;
Hac's reading of Spinoza being that the all was
for ever struggling into the infinitely little of life,
so as to find mirrors in which ludicrously to see
fragments of itself.

The first things that reconciled Hac to his
summer session was the organization of a
botanical party. During the summer there were
about a dozen of these parties, which went out
hither and thither to collect the flora of half-a-dozen
counties. The first excursion was to
Arthur's Seat. It was in the evening, because the
professor was obliged earlier in the day to be in

the Cowgate to see that some young medical
missionaries were keeping to their vows, and had
had no intention of getting their education cheap
or free for four years with the view of practising
among the heathen, while they quietly walked into
lucrative home practices in the fifth year of their
studies. The professor joined them at a place
called Samson's Ribs, while the moon shone white
and free over the ramparts of Craigmillar and on
the gray waters of Duddingstone. He gathered
them in a group on the hard highway — there were
two hundred of them — and looked on the wide,
clear plain. There were two modern castles at
their feet — modern, but still castles; and the
professor, who was the most obliging man in the
world, and who united archaeology to his other
pursuits, described them.

They were much in need of description, for from
loth castles a motley crowd emerged, who seemed
to have been imbibing large draughts of ancient

wine or something equally inebriating; and on
the swards behind each castle moonlight dances
commenced.

'Ah, they are very merry,' said the professor,
though they are not so ancient as they look in
the moonlight, and not so nautical as their name
would seem to indicate — not the dancers ; I mean
the owners of the castles. Though, be it said to
the honour of both castles, they employ nobody
under two thousand a-year. It's a curious circumstance,
and very honourable to them, that they
give two thousand a-year to each man in charge
of a department. I suppose they save on other
things,' he added ; ' for, though they published my
Cells, Great and Small," they did not remunerate
me according to their reputation. Now, gentlemen
all, this is the corner of Dunsappie Loch ; we
leave the open plain behind us, Duddingstone atour
feet, and Duddingstone Village further along.
Beautiful ! beautiful ! Showy in the extreme.

Now for the ascent. It's Saturday night, and we
must remember the day that awaits us. It will

be here What time is it ? Dear me ! mj^

watch has stopped. Mr Spens, is that you ? What
time is it ? '

Half-past eleven, sir.'

Nonsense.'

Yes, sir,' said half-a-dozen voices.

Half-past eleven ! I couldn't have believed it.
Now, gentlemen, in half-an-hour, if a vasculum
is opened, or a spud inserted into the earth, I will
apply to the Senatus Academics to have that
student expelled. I carrying my pocket at all
times — to-day I have been in the Cowirate and
used it freely — a book of sacred melodies. Mr
Spens, I will trust to you telling me when twelve
o'clock arrives, at which moment I will raise the
tune, we will fall into line of march, and decorously
go home to Edinburgh. In the meantime, we
will have had a Pisgah-view of the city and the

Firth beyond. I regret — I greatly regret — that
my engagements in the city have made it so late
before I could reach you at Samson's Ribs, but
we have time enough to collect all the character



isti flora before Sabbath morning arrives.

Hac had made a mistake of an hour in looking
at his watch. The students at his back had
affirmed his judgment, thinking he meant to be
witty at the professor's expense.

When the professor led off again from Dunsappie
to the top of Arthur's Seat, the wittier ones stayed
behind, and sat down on stones, and lay on the
dewy grass, and began to roar ' John Brown's
Body.'

Sandy Baxter clung to the professor, helped him
over dunes and ridges, asked him, with a deep,
botanical air, whether he thought Hunter's Bog,
through the continuous discharge of shots, would
be likely to contain nitrogenous plants, and, altogether,
was very pleasing with his inquiries.
VOL. II F

He's a sneak, that fellow said somebody, laying
by his spud and vasculuin. ' He knows that old
Tissue " always passes a man who attends his
meetings. He gives a fellow who speaks through
his nose fifty marks for his manner at a professional
examination.'

'There you are quite wrong. Baxter is not a
sneak at all. He is a very thorough and first-rate
fellow, and sticks to the professor simph' because
he wants to get up botany.'

While the majority of the students went up
Arthur's Seat, the minority stayed where they were,
lit pipes, sang songs, threw stones into the blackwater
of Dunsappie Loch, wished they had a glass
of beer, and cried ' Hush ! ' as they listened to a
mumbling voice come down to them explaining-specimens
as they happened to be found and presented
by students.

At last, leap-frog, chaff, pipes, and loitering became
unbearable ; somebody said he heard ' Tissue '

making preparations for his meeting, whereupon
there was a stampede in the direction of Puddings


We have plenty of time yet,' said a student.
The inns are open ; let's go down and have some
fun. There's one of the nicest inns in the world
down there, with an open garden and unrivalled
beer. Who says ? '

I do ! ' 'I do ! ' 'So do I ! ' ' Hang " Tissue ! " '
The inn ! ' ' Duddingstone ! ' ' Hurrah ! hurrah ! '
John Brown's body lies mouldering in the grave ! '
Hip, hip ! ' And the remainder of the students
who did not choose to go to the top of the hill,
the botany and the meeting, rushed to the grassy
rider above Duddingstone Loch, tumbled down
with shouts, sped along the road past the old
gate and the pillory, and round a corner into an
inn. The songs that they sung were numerous
and merry', but they gathered no flowers and
they learnt no botany, and they missed hearing

the professor raise the tune. Perhaps, when Hac
stood in the old pillory hours later, he really deserved
to be there. As they sang their way round
Samson's Ribs, they noticed that even the castles
were shut up. There was nothing between Craig-miller
and them but the moaning of the wind and
the light of the white moon on the plain.

A ROW AND IT S CONSEQUENCES

Botanizing in the spirit in which Hac botanized
was of no great use. Apologising followed suit.
He did not wish disenchantment to overtake him
in his relations with the flowers and the birds ; and
systematic inquiry seemed to substitute for the
glamour of attractive ignorance a repulsive
knowledge which really did disenchant. He told
Sandy, therefore, one morning, while they went
down to the Botanic Gardens, that he didn't think
he would compete. He would attain the dry bones

of knowledge sufficient to enable him to get his
fifty per cent, of the hundred marks required for
an ordinary pass degree ; more than that he did
not care for.

Sandy was very contemptuous towards him when
he told him.

I don't care, Sandy ; I believe it's a pity to
know too much. Do you think we were sent hereto
cram every nook of the brain with information ?
No ; I believe some were sent to sit down here
and wonder and sing about it.'

Wonder and sing about it ! Yes ; I could understand
a chap, if he were a Homer or a Milton,
saying that. But a minor poet, Spens — what's the
use of that ? I wouldn't give a weil-crammed
student for him any day. He's of no use whatever,
with his ignorant wonder, and his " Oh's " and
Ah's " and " Ye's " and " Thou s." The fact is,
Spens, you're a lazy beggar, and you're trying to
excuse yourself to yourself.'

I may be a minor poet, Sandy said Hac, with
a touch of melancholy.

Well, I'm precious glad there's nothing of that
sort the matter with me, at any rate,' replied Sandy,
hugging his textbook and whistling.

No ; I don't think you are a minor poet.'

It may be that Sandy hit off the nature of
Hac's restlessness by telling him he was a minor
poet — restless because he wished to produce something
immortal, and always found his rhymes
limited by the incompetency of the nature which
Nature had Oven him to make them better. At
any rate, he was restless and solitary, and one
Saturday, when he had no companion to accompany
him, he went up out of Princes Street, along
the broad Lothian Road, to Fountain Bridge. Why
it is called Fountain Bridge no one knows. There
is no fountain ; but there is a canal basin, and
beyond the basin a bridge, through which barges,
laden with clean coals and dirty refuse, perpetually

go and come. A little way up the canal there is
a ' rubber works,' which keeps sending water at
the boiling point into the motionless stream.
Opposite the works an old man, with ' a cast ' in
his eye, lends out boats at a shilling an hour to
all who may care to purchase a little sweet and
moveable leisure of that kind.

Hac went out and in among the bargees, who
loafed along the banks, smoking and wearing
a villanous air of go-ashore recklessness. He
wondered if, beyond Linlithgow and in the
neighbourhood of Falkirk, there might not
sometimes be perilous moments upon the canal
if the great deep beneath its weeds did not
present to the barges mind problems of risk
and excitement unknown to him. Else how
could these thick-jawed men, smelling illegitimate
tar, bear on their faces the expression, ' We
have been afloat. We have been nigh to death.

We didn't care a fig about it. We have a right
to be jolly now.'

He asked a barges if there were storms beyond
Linlithgow, and if navigation was considered
insecure at Falkirk. There was nothing impolite
in his enquiry. He presumed that the man was
acquainted with starboard and port, and all the
difficulties which these turns of a bark to right
or left presented to the judgment of the steerer.
But the barges only opened his jaws and spat.
The old man with the ' cast ' in his eye, however,
said that on the canal a man didn't need to know
the polar star from the light inside a turnip-lantern.
The less he thought of navigation the
better ; let him look to his beasts. He also
volunteered the information that when a steamboat
ran between the east and west he had
frequently seen passengers arrive in the last
stages of sea-sickness.

All iuiao'ination ! ' said the old man, dismissing:

the power of illusion as if it were a function of ike
moment whatever. ' Always look a-head when you
come to a bridge,' he added, pushing Hac and his
boat out with a hook. ' A barges never stops.'

Perhaps he's like the poor gentleman with the
cork leg, who, when some of his esteemed relations
came to beg, rudely assaulted them from behind.
I forget whether the failing was the cause or the
consequence of the cork leg. I will look it up
when I go home. It was in Rotterdam, or Amsterdam.
Berwick was the poor Dutchman's name.
He now procures degrees — five pounds a-piece. Oh,
you are not interested ; then I'm off.'

The country behind Edinburgh, into which Hac
rowed, rewarded him beyond his expectations. The
canal became weeded and picturesque, and from the
villas of Morningside and Merchiston picturesque
figures in blue and white and gold held parasols to
the sun as they sauntered on the banks. There
was deeply-wooded Corstorphine on the left of

him ; there were the undulating Braid Hills and
the ridge of the Pentland on his right hand.

The Castle of Merchiston ! ' said Hac, looking
at the flag flying on its turrets. ' Somebody discovered
logarithms there. Logarithms ! And he
has handed himself down to the infamy of every
schoolboy. Why have men at all times been so
inquisitive ? Yes, it is better to be ignorant somewhat,
and to wonder.'

He shot through bridge after bridge, and rapidly
got away into the country, far beyond Slateford,
and on the way to Linlithgow ; for he never
stopped to descend to the inns to drink bottled
beer. Bottled beer had no attraction for him
since that Saturday night at Duddingstone when
he had swallowed some, and found next morning
that he was nearly as ill as he had been with his
first smoke. He had gone far into the country,
when it occurred to him that he would tie up
his boat and saunter a little. The butterflies

were on the wing, the bees were singing among
the yellow heads of the flowers, and all roundabout
him there was the subdued hum of an
invisible but active life of winged things. These
impressions of actual life in the warm air were
more to him than knowledge. He was glad he
had not a vasculum and a spud ; glad that he
was among the quacking of ducks and the
husky cawing of crows, with heaven above and
the green carpet at his feet, for the fields ran
up to the edge of the canal where he was, and it
was all waving clover or plains of young corn. He
sauntered away from his boat, and presently lay
down to his favourite occupation of dreaming,
when by there came, a few minutes afterwards,
a soft footfall, which Hac thought was that of
a browsing animal. It was not, however; it was
a girl knitting, and when Hac put his hat off
his brow, rose on one elbow and looked, he saw
that it was Tibbie Baxter.

My clear Tibbie, tell me,' he said, springing to
his feet and rushing precipitately towards her,
that my eyes don't deceive me. Is it really you ? '

Tibbie, too, looked hard at him on the grass, but
he lay so that she could not distinguish his face,
though her poor heart gave a great throb at the
resemblance to Hac.

She stopped knitting, and a blush gathered on
her cheeks, which faded away into pallor while
she held out her hand to him.

'Why, my dear Tibbie! This is — it's you know
how has it happened ? Have you come over the
Firth of Forth on a broomstick, you witch ? '

I am living with my uncle's people, over there,'
said Tibbie, pointing a mile away to a homestead,
shining in the sunlight, from which the pleasant
sound of cart-wheels was borne to their ears.

I didn't know you had an uncle in this part of
the world, Tibbie.'

Oh, yes, indeed, my mother's brother. He's a

HACO THE DREAMER

large farmer. You were lying on his clover a little
ago. My father packed me off here one day'

And Tibbie faltered, and gave a side-glance at
Hac, with much meaning.

'You don't mean that day you and I stool
at the paling near Binkie, and — what was it
again, that happened ? I forget.'

You don't forget, Mr Hac. Nor do I, Mr
Hac. My father was never angry with me
before in his life — never.'

I thought I made it all right with him, Tibiae.
I promised him I would never kiss you again.'

Did you ? ' said Tibbie, with a faltering voice,
in which the sound of disappointment seemed to
reach Hac's ears.

That is,' he added, beginning to sophisticate,
and looking at Tibbie's glowing face with a responsive
throbbing at his own heart — 'that is — I
yes, I'm afraid I must say I gave him my word
of honour that I wouldn't kiss you again.'

Tibbie's face blazed. She said Mr Hac and
her father made very free with her in their conversation,
and she wished that, for the future,
they would let her be, without passing words of
honour over her.

Now you are offended, Tibbie.'
No, I am not, Mr Hac. I am very glad to
meet you, so well as you look. And how is Sandy,
if you know ? '

'I saw him yesterday morning. We go to the
same classes this session, you know. Sandy is a
wonderful fellow, you know. I thought he would
have some difficulty about medals in botany ; but
not a bit of it. He'll be at the top there, just as he
was at the extra-mural. It's an honour to know
Sandy at college. At the weekly examinations,
whenever " Tissue " has the least difficulty about
getting an answer, it's always " Mr Baxter, Baxter,
you know this sub-kingdom," and, sure enough, he
«l()es know. '

Tibbie looked a little proud of her kinship to
Sandy ; then she said,

W — won't you be getting some medals, Mr
Hac? '

If I do, it will be by a tremendous fluke,' he
answered, passing away from a subject which was
disagreeable to him.

Then they stopped and looked into the canal,
and for fully five minutes said nothing. He
gazed ardently at her, however, and she looked
ardently unconscious of his gaze.

Tibbie,' he suddenly broke out, ' I can't stand
this. Did you ever play at coach-horses when
you were a little thing ? This way — look. Stand
at my side. Give me that knitting stuff' to put
in my pocket. Now, you pass your right handover
and catch my hand, and my other intertwined ;
and, now, we run along the bank to the boat.
There's no harm in that, is there ? Your father
couldn't say I broke ni' word then, could he ?

I haven't attempted to kiss you, Tibbie, have I ?
This is rather good fun, isn't it ? '

Tibbie presently screamed with laughter as
they ran along the canal, their hands intertwined
at each other's back ; and when they came to the
boat and looked into it, she was rather sorry than
otherwise to miss the pressure of his hand.

I think when a fellow gives his word of honour
to a girl's father that he won't '

I can steer a boat,' said libbie, abruptly, ' If
you don't go up past my uncle's, but down towards
Edinburgh, I could sit and steer.'

You really are a nice girl, Tibbie,' said Hac ;
you make such pleasant, sensible suggestions.
But you interrupted me. I think I am behaving
very well, don't you ? '

I think you are,' said Tibbie, still with that

accent of disappointment, conveying a sort of

latent intimation that she wished he would not

insist upon being such a very, very good boy.
VOL II " " ' G

For an honr-and-a-half he rowed her backward
and forward within the circuit of half-a-mile.
Then she said she would have to go back because
the cattle were beginning to low in the fields.
They stood under a bridge just before they bade
each other Good-bye.

I don't think there is any harm in saying Goodbye
as if we were a brother and sister, Tibbie.'

Tibbie thought there wasn't any harm, and
their lips met under the bridge.

A NEW CLASS

Sandy Baxter was becoming popular. It was
known of him at the houses where he supervised
the Latin exercises and the Greek pothooks of boys
attending the Institution, the Academy, and the
High School, that at the extra-mural he had won
all the medals. It was not so well-known that the
attendance at the extra-mural was limited to
Sandy, or that Sandy had been his own competitor.
Not that Sandy deserved any less credit
on that account ; for his marks were so high that

the probability is not three lads out of three
hundred, had they been competing with him,
would have achieved similar distinction. The
popularity took rather an embarrassing form for
Sandy. He taught for a couple of hours in a
house outside the Grange Cemetery — an institution
for the reception of the permanently silent,
which lies in one of the newer suburbs of Edinburgh
— and one evening, as he was putting himself
into his outer coat, the elder sister of the boys
asked him if he would care to meet some people
next Friday night. With perfect alacrity Sandy
said he would ; but the evening had not been too
happy for him. The people were extremely nice,
seventeen girls being all that could be desired by
the eye of the susceptible youth, and the five other
young men than Sandy, who were expected to
dance with them, being not too objectionable. Sandy,
however, could not dance, His father had never
allowed him to learn, notwithstanding the protests

of Mrs Baxter. It was his disagreeable duty,
therefore, that evening, to sit in a corner by
himself, hopelessly given up by the elder sister of
his pupils, and coldly scanned by the dozen damsels
who were waiting their turn to be whirled.

Oh, do you not dance ? ' said the elder sister's
mother.

Are you above this sort of thing ? ' asked the
mother's husband.

Mr Baxter,' remarked one of the boys who would
have greatly liked to dance, but who could find
no partner except his aunt, who was fifty, ' rise
up and show them the way.'

But Sandy would not move. Privately, he had
some of his father's contempt for the bobbing and
ducking, and twirling and turning He thought
human beings might be otherwise advantageously
engaged ; yet he suffered so much from his incompetence
on that occasion, and again at a house in
Mornino^side, when, being; asked to dance, he

.stood up and chanced it, feeling that he had
observed enough at his last party to entitle him
to try, that he determined to learn. His first
efforts were all by himself in his high room at
Buccleuch Place.

When he came in from his work he would change
his coat and imagine a companion, and dance round
his own table with her till he was giddy. That did
not teach him much, however. He did rather
better with a broomstick, which his landlady happened
to leave about. He danced with the broomstick,
hitting his bedroom door with it, knocking
the fender with it, whacking the table, indenting
lus cupboard, and thudding the floor till he became
aware that he was being scrutinized through the
keyhole, whereupon he stopped and rang his bell
for some more cold water.

Dear, dear,' said his landlady, ' I was looking
for that broomstick and couldn't find it. It was
careless to leave the broomstick in your room.'

And she took it away.

After his practice by himself, Sandy, with confidence
in himself, essayed to dance at Morningside.
He thought a waltz was the easier of two dances
of which he had the option, the secret of it being a
determination to get round the room at a o-reat
rate, without bumping or tumbling. By a little
dash and courage, he had no doubt he could manage
it very well; but he was surprised to find that
between the sounds of the piano and the movement
of the feet there seemed to be a connection. He
had not thought of that, never taking the least
interest in musical sound of any sort ; when he
dashed off, therefore, with his partner, it was exactly
as if he had had the broomstick. He hit the
pianist on the back with her, he threw her against
other dancers, he tumbled her over the fender, and
drove her against the lintels of the door, until, to
save herself from fainting, the poor girl was obliged
to halt and say,

If you please, Mr Baxter, we will sit down now.'
Sandy saw, after that, that he must get some
little insight into this mysterious double movement
of the feet. He must make it, like zoology and
chemistry, a matter of knowledge, acquire it, and
afterwards practice it as he meant to do his profession.
For, oddly enough, at these gyrations, he
found his position as a medallist of very little use
to him. Nobody seemed to care for latent distinction
of that sort. Could he dance well ? Then he
was popular. \Yas he a bad dancer .'' Then he
was unpopular.

I may require to dance when I am entering a
practice,' he reflected. ' I will learn forthwith.'
Exactly as he went at his studies — that is, withall
his heart and soul — Sandy determined to go to
his dancing. He had seen a board on the side of

o

a house in Nicolson Square, not far from the
University, intimating that, three storeys up, there
was a ' Dancing Academy.' He made an elaborate

calculation whether an hour at this academy
would rob him of any advantages at his classes.
Let him see ' — counting the hours, and the engagements
in each of them, with the fore-finger of
his right hand upon the fingers of his left. ' Let
him see : there was Botany in the morning ;
Zoology in the forenoon ; Anatomy in the afternoon
; an hour's teaching between Botany and
Zoology ; an hour's teaching between Zoology and
Anatomy ; three hours' teaching afterwards, and
his work to prepare for next day. Could he doit
? Yes, he could. Therefore he would do it.'

Accordingly, he went into Nicolson Square one
evening, ascended three storeys, and scrutinized
a brass plate, on which ' Dancing Academy ' was
repeated. He knocked, and had the door opened
to him by a curious individual, whom he seemed
to have seen before. He was shown into a hall,
which consisted of the greater portion of the flat,
gutted and enlaro-ed to one room. There was a

little raised dais at one end, a couple of fiddle-cases
reclined in a corner, and a brazen instrument
with masterly potentialities of wind in its inside
shone from a wall. There was no other furniture
or decoration, and, except the individual who
admitted him, neither master nor pupil present.

I want to learn to dance,' said Sandy, looking
inquiringly at the strange figure he seemed to
have seen before.

Yes, I suppose so.'

Are you the teacher ? '

I'm the master of ceremonies.'

Sandy thought he had a heavy favour of spirits
about him which he would have been better
without.

What's that ? ' he asked.

I've been master — master of the ceremonies,' he
replied, with a slight hiccup, which he suppressed,
to Hunger, sir ; to Sanger, sir ; to Orde — greater
than any of 'em.' (Hiccup.) ' Orde, sir, was a man

who understood genius and sympathized with it.
Now, look at this.'

And the master of the ceremonies, to demonstrate
his possession of genius, severed himself from himself,
threw his head away and caught it, as if his
trunk were a cup and his head a ball, made a
rotatory movement with his right leg, as if he
were a grindstone in full employment, and nipped
himself in two.

Sandy was lost in amazement. He had never
been to a circus, or a theatre, or a penny gaff. But
he saw that this was a phenomenon which contradicted
all his anatomical knowledge. He proceeded
to logically demonstrate to the phenomenon that
he really could not physically do what he was
doing.

You perceive,' said Sandy, ' that the cervical
vertebrae are so set upon the neck, and depend so
consistently upon the lumbar on the one hand,
and the skull on the other, that a person who

threw his head off his neck would die. That is
how men are hanii^ed.'

Is it ? ' said the master of the ceremonies. ' And
how do you know I ain't been 'angel. I never
said I wasn't. Did you never hear of a 'angel
man coming' alive again ? Lor' bless you, them
doctors know nothing. I had a pal at Orde's for
years who had swung for it at — I won't say
where — and I'm the only contortions now ; but
he was the oldest before he got planted. His
neck was broken before ever he came to be
hung up. It didn't matter to him, Calcraft
b]'eakin' it again. Not a bit. Mr Calcraft, when
he cut him down, he recognized him as the Great
Snake, an' he bundles a boo sawdust in the
quicklime hole in the gaol corner, an' lets him
out. Says Calcraft, " I'm paid for a-hanging of
ye. I ain't paid for a-murdcrin' of ye, Snake, my
friend. I broke your neck for the law once — once
is enough. I don't entertain no mean enmity

to ye. You come along o' me. I shouldn't wonder
if you'd be a job to me afore long." He was a good
sort, was Calcraft. But that Snake's gone, and I'm
the only Snake left. I wish I wasn't so fond o'
the bottle, though. It keeps me from the higher
walks. Says my medical attendant to me, " Snake
if you was to take my advice, you would leave
the bottle alone, and the Emperor o' the French
and all the crowned heads they would take you
up — they would, indeed. They would take ye
up to amuse their young 'uns. You might have
the run o' the Fooleries, Snake," says my medical
attendant. And I feel I'm debarred from the higher
walks' — putting his hand into the inside of his
jacket, craning his neck towards a bottle, with a
movement like a disreputable swan, extracting the
cork with his teeth, and absorbing some spirits.

What do ye do it for, then ? ' asked Sandy, who
had no temptation to do anything oft' the even

path of rectitude, which lay as straight before him
as a coach road.

'Because 'I'm wicked, and was born wicked, and
don't like to be nufhn else. I've been ruined
though. I'm a master of ceremonies ; and here's
proprietor a-coming', and don't you say I carry the
drink about wi' me. It's an improvement on the
liquorice stick and tamarind water.'

If you don't betray yourself, it's none of my
business,' said Sandy, turning from the contortions
to a little old man with a stooping figure,
accompanied by a pair of bouncing daughters, who
looked contemptuously at the Snake and affectionately
at Sandy. One of them, a head and shoulders
taller than Sandy, with a countenance of the most
frank and open description, asked him if he had
come to dance.

Yes ; to learn.'

Have you ever danced before?'

'No.'

How nice ! ' said the other daughter. ' Father,
here is a gentleman come to learn who has never
danced before.'

The little old man went to the corner for his
fiddle, took it out, screwed it, resined it, scraped
it till it screamed, and came forward to the middle
of the floor, his body swaying with a rhythmic
motion and his head nodding, as he kept drawing
his bow across the strings.

To be a dancer,' he said, looking critically at
Sandy, ' one thing is needful — a pair of legs.'

I've o't that,' said Sandy.

With a pair of legs,' he continued, ' be they
thick or thin, hard or soft, short or long, I can
make a dancer. But that is not enough. I want
good dancing, and that requires a good pair of
legs, which have firmness in the brawn and suppleness
at the joints. Added to which, sir,' he said
emphatically, striking the Snake over the head
with his bow when he showed an irresistible

tendency to turn himself into a grindstone, ' I
want music in a man's soul, for this dancing is
first cousin to sound. As so' — and he played
with extreme rapidity, some notes of a reel, to
which his daughters instantly responded by shooting
out their elbows and bobbing as if they were
marionettes pulled by wires — ' as so ; you observe
my daughters. And I want a guinea a quarter,
payable on the spot, for the inestimable privilege
of my teaching.'

A guinea is a large sum of money,' said Sandy.

He looked at the Snake for justification of the
extra vacant magnitude of the sum. But that
worthy was craning his head in the direction of
his inside pocket.

I thought,' pursued Sandy, ' I could learn to
dance on less than a guinea. I'm afraid 111 have
to give it up altogether if I have to pay as much
as that.'

The tall daughter now threw up her arm, told



her father to retire to his dais, asked the master
of the ceremonies what he was about, called out
in a commanding voice, ' Valse d trois temps,' and
before Sandy knew what he was about, he was
circling like a mill-wheel, while his tall partner
looked down at him graciously. He tripped and
stumbled and almost fell, but the Amazonian
strength of his partner kept him up, and he went
six times round the hall without stopping.

That isn't dancing, you understand,' said the
partner, as the screaming of the fiddle came to an
end and she stood with Sandy's arm round her
waist, under the brazen instrument. ' Snake,' she
continued, disengaging herself — 'Snake, you will
do the same dance with my sister. Now, keep
your eyes on Snake's feet, sir, and you will
notice the difference.'

Valse d trois teinj)s ! ' exclaimed the 
Amazon; the fiddle began to scream, the

Snake wove his arm about the sister, and Sandy
VOL. II H

perceived, what he had never noticed before, that
this dancing was an art, not to be practised with
the impunity of ignorance, but to be seriously
learnt, with as much care as he bestowed upon his
sciences. While he waltzed, the Snake, who had
seemed so repulsive to Sandy, craning at his bottle
and making his criminal brag, became animated
and inspired. His partner and he went round,
borne up by sound, as it appeared, and Sandy determined
to get some of that aerial grace for his
money, if he could. He told the master that, after
all, he thought a guinea not so very much, and
before leaving he paid his money, saying he would
return ao^ain at the same hour till he learnt how to
dance.

You are fortunate,' said the fiddler, ' in having
the floor to yourself. Our large classes begin as
your hour comes to an end.'

It's not the first time I have been so fortunate,'
murmured Sandy, going down into Nicolson Square.

EARLY MORNING

Lady Mary Hay continued her work in the
wards, and Hac went on assisting her. She
liked to have the lad in her train, for, thou-li the
students came in their little crowds to hear Crum
expatiate on cases, and at the bedsides put his
comments into their note-books, they were all
rather in her than in his following. Spens was
the power behind the throne, however. It was
admitted that though Lady Mary was tolerant to
everybody who approached her, and even sweet

and obliging in her manner, with Spens only was
she friendly. It was universally affirmed in the
hospital that she was in love with him, and that
the baronet's son and the earl's sister were likely
to make a match of it.

Mrs Blake was the author of the rumour, and
it took its rise in this way. One of Lady Mary's
little boys had an excision of the knee joint performed
on him. For some reason or other, he was
shifted from her ward to a neighbouring one,
in which there were none but patients who had
long reached their maturity. Dr Crum expected
that the boy would be noisy and restless all night,
and that he would, probably, interfere with the
sleep of children as much in need of rest as
himself. Lady Mary parted with him with great
reluctance. She could not follow him into the
lien's V, ard, greatly as she would have liked todo
it. She got Hac, however, to arrange with

the dressers in the men's ward that he shoukl be
allowed to take the night watch.

The night watch in the hospital was new to
Hac. He had never passed a midnight among
the sufferers, and on this occasion his experience
of it left an indelible impression of misery on
his mind. What a responsibility it was ! On one
bed lay an old man, destined on the morrow for
the surgeon's table. He could not sleep, and while
the town bells were toUino- an hour after midnight
he rose uneasily, and with slow, painful movements
took himself out to the cold corridors and
stood in one of the windows, thinking of the
white mutch of his wife, whom he had left ina
sea-dell upon a northern slope of Scotland, and
wondering whether tomorrow were to orinoco
him the end of all or the beginning of a new
period of painless life.

The ward was high, and the sounds went up as
if into the arch of a cathedral — not sounds of

harmonious praise, but the bitter groans of the
agonized and dying. All through the midnight
the little boy whimpered, and asked Hac to put
his hand upon the plaster cast under which his
excised limb reposed. ' He felt it falling to pieces,'
he said. ' He was bleeding to death,' he murmured
; and Hac, fearing hemorrhage and his
own inability to stop it, kept rising from the
surgical table and walking from the fireplace to
the boy's bedside, not sure whether he should
call the nurse and awaken the house-surgeon, or
act upon his own scared judgment. He went out
into the corridor and saw the poor patient shivering
in a window.

• You would be better in bed, my dear fellow,'
he said. ' Take a hold of my arm and get back
to your place.'

I canna help wandering'. But let me alone,'
was the reply ; and Hac returned to the boy's
bedside.

Hour after hour passed ; the groans from some
of the beds ceased, and it was apparent that sleep
had descended to the relief of some of them. One
sufferer, however, who had been wrestling through
the livelong nio^ht, raised himself on his elbow
opposite Hac, and, as if electrified, leaned glaring
at him. He made no motion. He simply kept his
glassy eyes fixed upon Hac. He had ceased
breathing.

Do you want anything ? ' Hac called out, 
to feel a cold shiver in his back.

The man's jaw fell, and it was apparent that
the spirit had gone.

He's away,' said the voice of a sleepless patient,
who had been watching the fio-ht of death from an
opposite bed. ' That's the third this week. It
makes a body shiver. They put up a screen when
a man dees — that screen at the back o' the ward
door. Shut his been and put up the screen.'

Hac did as he was told, in obedience to the

voice of experience which dictated to him. He
saw from the blue lio;ht at the blinds that midnight
had given way to morning, and as it streamed in
upon the ward, he raised a corner and looked out.

The tragedy of death was at his elbow ; he had
not yet recovered the shock of that arresting gaze,
when he heard a voice from a bed querulously
demanding a Bible.

My Bible ! Where's my Bible ? I cannot do
without my Bible.'

It was now broad daylight. Hac turned and
offered his assistance in finding the missing book.

o o

It was a leather-covered school Bible and lay out
of sight beneath the devotee's pillow.

Here you are,' said Hac, finding it for him.

That has been my razor-strop for ten years,
sir,' said the patient, beginning to whet his blade
on the cover and putting the volume away without
reading after it had got a satisfactory edge.

It was a relief to Hac to find that tragedy

and comedy existed under the same roof, and that
even death could not eliminate some of the latter.

As morning became more assured, Hac knew
that the outer gates of the hospital had been opened,
and that traffic was commencing in the streets. He
did not at once know, however, when there was the
sound of carriage wheels at the gate, that Lady
Mary had come early to hear of her little charge.

She came straight to the ward door, and her face
wore a bright, fresh expression as she stood looking
in, so making sure that her presence could embarrass
nobody.

I may, I suppose ? ' she said, softly, holding out
her hand to Hac, who advanced to meet her.
You have not had any help all night, have you ?
You have had a good night's work. Ah ! the
screen ! '

Together they stood at the bedside of the little
boy. He had gone to sleep, and was evidently
dreaming of nice things, for he smiled peacefully.

We will not disturb him,' said Lady Mary, going
out into the corridors. ' He is going to live, poor
boy ! Dr Crum never loses a life, hardly.'

They stood in the window looking down on the
hospital gardens, where only the sparrows were out
as yet.

You are looking so tired and done up,' she said,
sympathetically. ' This night-work is very trying
for you. I'm so much obliged to you ; indeed, so
deeply grateful to you for sour help to my little
patient. You know I consider him mine. I felt
all through the night, when I wakened and
thought of the boy, that he was in good hands.
Any ordinary dresser would not have given me
that confidence, Hac.'

My dear Lady Mary, to have earned your gratitude
is a great deal more to me than the little
trouble it was to sit up through the night. The
poor boy went on all night putting questions to me
about you, till he fell asleep. He insisted that you

had promised to come and see him early, and he
never stopped asking if it was early yet.'

You will now feel, Hac, that you are almost a
member of the profession.'

Lady Mary looked anxiously at him as they
stood in the recess. He answered her by passing
his hand through his hair and sighing. He looked
jaded. Lady Mary was sorry for his fatigue and
his pale face, and was more tender in her manner
towards him than she had ever allowed herself to
be.

It is well, Hac, that, like me, you are young
and elastic. This night's work will not kill you.'

No, indeed ; I should be very poor stuff if it
did. But I shall never be young again. I have
seen a man die — for the second time, as you know.'

Yes, the screen ; I noticed it. Dr Crum told
me he feared there would be a death in the ward
during the night. But that must not age you,
Hac.'

I shall never be young again. Why, he leaned
upon his elbow and looked at me, and his jaw fell,
and he was ozone. This moment wrestling for his
life ; that moment silent — silent as the tomb he is
p'oinef to. Extinguished, as I mic^ht extinguish a
rush light, with the breath of my lips, by blowing
it out. You know who it is that says, '' Nature's
pluck is extinction." You heard him that crowded
Sunday night at the Hopetoun Rooms, when he
was demonstrating the origin of life — how physical
it was. Well, the end is not like the beo-innincr,
yet I saw that man die, and I read extinction in
his face — the ghastly horror of surprise in his jaw,
that he had been snapped to nothingness so suddenly
after all his hopes and expectations. I am
aged ; yes, I shall never be young again — never-never
'

Dear Hac,' said Lady Mar^^ still in the recess,
you take things too bitterly. You should confine
yourself to your own sphere. It is yours, it is

1^5

mine, to soothe the dying, to rescue, if we can,
the endangered, to help pain and alleviate accident,
and to leave these greater questions of the future
life to other men and women. Let the Church
answer these questions : Do I go to nothingness
when I die ? Is there a hereafter ? You may rely
on it, I think, that the Power which has produced
life will be faithful to its idea, if it is a good one.
It may be a blunder,' — Lady Mary sighed — 'a
wrong and a cruel idea, one which the Power
had much better never have imagined. Well,
what then ? It is not for long — not if we live
forty years beyond the Biblical span. What is
a century to the geological record ? What is a
human life to the organizer of the solar system ? '

I shall never be young again,' murmured Hac,
the dark rings blackening under his eyes. ' It is a
revelation to me. I see it all — the whole play and
its meaning. They talk of people aging into gray
hairs in a night. My head is gray.'

No, clear Hac, it is not gray. It is exactly the
colour it was yesterday, when the sun shone in
upon you bending over that poor little boy's bed ;
and I felt, as I looked at you. He might be a girl
he micrht be a younger sister.'

Hac looked at her and with an imploring
glance, he said,

I will repeat you something I have read since I
came into the wards. I found it in the torn corner
of a newspaper, where a reviewer had quoted it.
It has refused to leave my recollection.

" Ah, love let us be true
To one another ! for the world, which seems
To lie before us like a land of dreams,
So various, so beautiful, so new,
Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light.
Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain ;
And we are here, as on a darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of struggling and flight,
Where ignorant armies clash by night." '

No, it is not so bad as that,' said Lady Mary.
Why,' continued Hac, ' in the very recess of
this window where we are standing Gravelled



veteran stood for hours — all through the
midnight. To-morrow he will mount the table,
and will refuse to take chloroform, and Nature,
.shocked at the heart, will pluck him. I asked
him, as he stood there moaning low to himself,
what he was thinking about. " My wife's white
mutch," he replied. He is a poor stone-polisher
from the north, and all that remains to him the
night before his death — for he will die ; Crum
says a hundred to one that he will die — is the
recollection of his wife's white mutch. Lady Mary,
I believe that Nature's pluck is extinction, and
that nothing is left us but love —

' Ah, love, let us be true
To one another.' "

Lady Mary looked at him. He had been very
ardent and excited, and, though she had put love
by as not her mission in life, she felt a momentary
thrill as their eyes glanced and kindled on meeting
each other's confronting gaze.

Notwithstanding your feeling about old age, you
are really very, very young yet, Hac. Do not
dream so much, and act more, and you will be less
sad. And now,' she added rapidly, ' you have taken
my hand, and you have had my fingers at your lips
exactly as if I were Youth at the helm and you were
Pleasure who had crept away from the prow ; and
you will be going away with the impression that I
have allowed you to fall in love with me. I have
not, Hac ; I have not indeed. All that is out of
the question for me. I am serving in this temple
of the weak and the sick and the dying, and must
be allowed to be a priestess without solicitation
of affection. I like you, Hac, and shall always
be pleased to help you in any other way than with
the love you seem to invite. Now, when I am
removed to Vienna, I shall always think of you
with gratitude for the assistance 3'ou have given
me in my work. But — no love ! '

She turned and saw Mrs Blake at her back ; but

she was perfectly serene and self-possessed — a circumstance
which the head nurse attributed to her
ancient descent, and not to her hypocrisy, to
which she would have attributed it in the case of
a girl with a common origin.

I can assure you,' said Mrs Blake, ' though I
came upon them in the corridor, and Mr Spans, at
six o'clock in the morning, with his face unwashed,
proposing marriage to her, and her saying, " No,
love," she turned round on me as if nothing were
occurring. See what it is, Mrs Peche}^ to have a
family tree.'

So spoke the head-nurse to another head-nurse
who visited her in her room, and took something
out of a bottle fabled ' Poison.'

A boy and a girl,' said Mrs Pechey.

No doubt,' said Mrs Blake.

VOL II

AIRING THE CHILDREN

The summer session in Edinburgh can arrow very
monotonous. Half the professors are gone away to
the country to enjoy themselves in the sunshine, and
to write one new lecture against the coming session.
One is enough, for the average duration of a professor's
life is twenty-five years after his appointment,
and twenty-hive lectures in that time amply
fulfil all the purposes of prelection. The remainder
are written in the first year of occupancy of the
chair, which demands unprecedented effort. It

does nobody any harm — not even the students — if
professors go on remembering for five-and-twenty
years what a strain they had during the first six
months, and sitting down under the burden of the
recollection of it till they die of gout and whist.
The other half, who remained in town, were at all
times too busy to occupy themselves with the
students after class hours.

The University provided no common basis of
amusement for its lads. If Hac had not had his
yacht brought over from Binkie and anchored in
Granton Harbour, he would have been as ill off as
his neighbours, many of whom, from sheer absence
of resource, loitered about public-houses, billiard-rooms,
and such-like places, day and night, till
they ruined themselves, body and soul. There
was, to be sure, an institution near his own rooms
called ' The Philosophical,' where telegrams of all
the important events of the day were to be seen,
and where returned Indians, retired tradesmen,

clergymen, schoolmasters, and lawyers, moved
about among frames, readings. It was not unamusing
to notice, as Hac did, that these men
held a parliament with themselves behind each
frame. According to the tone of each leader or
article they seemed to read, their lips moved and
their fists clenched, and they showed or slapped
their knees. Sometimes a returned Indian would
collar a clergyman from behind a frame where
there was a print warranted to give full reports
of divorce cases, and carry him off to a frame
where there was a dispelling in the name of a
village in the jungle of an un visited corner of an
Indian Presidency, and pointing to the missing h
or the unnecessary </, would fulminate til) everybody
looked. The clergyman would then steal
back to his divorce case, and gobble the evidence
with an alacrity which was amazing to behold.
Or Ilaco would go into the book-room, and, from
a table, would lift off the last new book and pore

over it, on a sofa, till it was ten o'clock, and he
was asked to go. With his ^^acht in Granton Bay,
however, he did a great deal better than a great
many students, though Sandy expostulated with
him when he talked of bringing it over, had
assured him that if it was once introduced on the
Edinburgh side of the Firth there would be no
more work done.

As for Sandy, the result of the first class-examinations
soon settled his place. Hac had attended
both, and done, as he thought, very well. When,
however, he heard the results read out, first by
Vascular Tissue ' and then by ' Bathybius,' he
understood, once for all, that Sandy was the
better man.

On the whole,' mumbled " Tissue," ' the papers
are fair, average papers. But there is one student
who shows to me that much better work might be
done by the rank and file. Mr Baxter — Mr
Alexander Baxter — I'm obliged to give him the

HACO THE DREAMER

full value — one hundred per cent. — cent, per cent. 1
The showy flower that I submitted for your
examination and description, Mr Baxter has
examined and described so that I cannot subtract
a single mark from him. On this occasion

only, I will confess to you Janitor ! (' Yes,

sir ! ') Janitor ! turn out the two benches at the
back of the class-room, and call cards after they

are removed. (' Yes, sir ! ') On this occasion

Stop that noise, will you, janitor ! (' Yes, .sir ! ')
Remove two more benches. (' Yes, sir ! ') Now
that we are almost alone, T must say that, on the
whole, the papers have pleased me greatly' —
greatly. One hundred per cent. ! Mr Alexander
Baxter, if you are not standing on this platform,
some years hence, illuminating the minds of succeeding
generations, then I am much mistaken.
So far as you have gone, taking the first six
weeks of you as a botanist, you are the most
accurate, the most perfectly, minutely informed



of any botanist I happen to know, or have known.
Janitor ! (' Yes, sir ! ') We will not call cards
to-day.' (' Yes, sir ! ')

Hac, on the contrary, along with fifty others,
only got about fifty-two per cent, on his Botany
paper. In the Natural History class it was very
much the same, much to the surprise of everybody,
Sandy Baxter included ; for it was observed on the
examination day, that Sandy had shot through his
paper sooner than anybody, and, with a slight air
of distrust, had cast his leaves between the stuffed
fore-paws of a fox, who surveyed the class-room, as
if he were in despair of answering anything. But
he had answered everything, and that in first-class
style ; for ' Bathybius,' coming in with a bunch of
papers, coughing, and looking cruel, began with
Sandy's name.

Oh ! what a moment is that, after a class-examination,
when men have been sitting up
week after week, with wet towels on their heads,

grinding fact after fact into their skulls from long
slips, from the margins of text-books, from dirty
notes, from the learning of crammers. What a
moment ! The diligent one who wants to write his
weekly letter home, and to say, by the way, as it
were, 'I had a first-class with "Bathybius" last week.
He is arum old fellow, but much fairer than" Tissue,"
for I worked a vast deal harder for lin and didn't
even g(^t a fifty per cent. There's a good deal of
cheating goes on. I hear that a fellow who got
a hundred per cent., is somehow connected with
an old fellow-student of " Tissue's " — old Spens, the
baronet and oculist — and for that reason he crop
a hundred per cent.' — the diligent one does not
like his name to be omitted from the list, and
blames his professor for cheating.

Hac, for a moment, felt that Sandy must be
favoured, when having heard ' Tissue ' in the morning,
he came up to Nicolson Street to hear ' Bath
bias,' in the afternoon, say :

The papers, on the whole, are very fair — very
fair indeed. One student, however, is facile princeps
— (loud applause) — facile princeps. (Sustained
applause, going on for two-minutes-and -a-half,
during which period ' Bathybius ' looks at his
watch, the examination papers, and the door.)
Now that is about enough. Mr Alexander Baxter
has obtained ninety-nine — and — a — half — of — all
the — available — marks. (Uproarious applause,
to which there seems to be no end. ' Bathybius '
eyeing the ' femur ' of a walrus ferociously, as if
he would greatly like to seize it and descend among
the benches, using it as a lethal weapon.' Ninety-nine
— and — a — half — of — all — the — available —
marks. I debated somewhat with myself and my
assistant upon that half mark. I weighed it; I
considered it ; I turned it upside down. It all
depended upon a colon or semi-colon. Had Mr
Baxter written colon, he would have lost the half
mark ; Writing semi-colon, he obtained it. (Huge

tramping of feet, kept up till clouds of dust rise
from the rear benches of the class-room.) I am
familiar with the fact that the ancestral ape is the
head of the family tree here. Quite so. Yes. I
see him, poor fellow, smirking on your lips, grinning
in your faces, grinding in your hoofs. Poor
fellow ! Yes, you are a disgrace to him. He
would not own you. He would, if he were alive,
cut you off with a nut — a small hazel nut, nothing
than that. (Suddenly bundling up all the
examination papers, with one brief, decisive glance
at the door and two ridges of contempt on the
sides of his face ; whence instantaneous silence.
Papers laid down again and the beginnings of a
smile.) After all, gentlemen, perhaps he would
have only cut you off with cocoa-nut, which, I may
say, is a larger fortune than ever I had when I
began the world. (Renewed indication of applause
and clouds of dust in the back benches. Bundling
of examination papers begun again.) 

per cent., Mr Baxter. Next paper —
seventy-two, Mr Moy. I am disappointed in Mr
Moy. I thought from the indications of attention
driven by him that he would have obtained more.

The remaining names are ' And the professor,

rapidly reading through a long list of second-class
names, pushed them aside, and opened fire upon the
animal kingdom which had promoted themselves
from blubber to backbone.

The upshot of it was, however, that Sandy
Baxter had immensely distinguished himself ; and
Hac approached him, almost hat in hand, that
afternoon, congratulated him, and asked him if he
would care to come down the Firth with Lady
Mary Hay, some sick children, and himself, at the
end of the week.

Sandy was like Christie — honours made him
modest. The more he had of them, the less he
seemed to care about them ; the more careful he
was not to look 'cocky' and conceited. There

may have been a higher kind of cockneys in the
quiet assumption that ninety-nine-and-a-half percent,
was his birthright ; but if there was, it was
not a cockneys which offended any one like loud
brag or condescending ways, or the superior appearance
of genius cultivated by many persons who
get fewer marks than Sandy.

You certainly are an awful swell, Sandy,' said
Hac, humbly, who, though he expected to come
into his father's surgical baronetcy, did not feel
that the distant prospect of such an honour entitled
him to feel himself on a level with the son of his
father's grieve.

'I don't know,' said Sandy ; ' maybe there are a
hundred or two generals competing with me ; ' and
he promised he would patronize Hac's yacht, not
saying it would be patronage, though Hac felt it
would be.

Lady Mary's ten children were at the end of
Granton Harbour on the morning when the two
students were to meet them. It was a magnificent
forenoon, with the light of the sun well shaded by
clouds which did not promise to blow hard during
the day. But the wind which did blow was
towards the west instead of towards the east. It
blew inside instead of outside the Firth, and Sandy
suggested that if they were to sail safely and
comfortably, they could do it better up than out of
the Firth. The ten children were pale-faced
objects ; three of them on crutches ; three of
them with slings, in which their pinched arms
reposed ; four of them with bands, belts, or
bandages arranged round them. They looked
from Sandy to Hac with expectant, anxious
faces, as they discussed the wind, and, presently,
when Lady Mary came down the pier, from a house
where she had been making a visit, they rushed at
her as if to a mother, gathered round her in a

group, and lugged her towards Sandy and Hac.
They went down a slippery stair to the yacht, and,
as the tide was running up and down with a
treacherous appearance of green suction, which set
the tanojles waving, Hac received the children in
his arms as Sandy passed them down. It was
Hac's inestimable privilege, also, to lift Lady
Mary in his arms and to place her on the deck of
his own yacht. She felt as if a hero had just
rescued her from drowning; he, as if the kind
2:ods had left him nothing better to live for.

They drew out of the harbour very rapidly and
into the Firth.

It would be pleasant to go up,' said Hac.

Up towards Alloa ? ' said Lady Mary.

Yes.'

Strawfield is not at home. Now that I think
of it, we might do worse than take the children
there. We shall get them something nice to eat
and drink.'

What do you say, mate ? ' asked Hac, looking
from the tiller to the bow.

'Say?'

Yes.'

I think we will run up nicely with this wind ;
and if we're not to hit it off on the Strawfield side,
we're sure of a meal on the Binkie side, anyway.'

Do you mean if the wind is contrary, Mr
Baxter ? '

Just so, my lady.'

Not that we may not be welcome at Straw-field
? '

I didn't think of that.'

Up the Firth it is,' cried Hac, peremptorily, ashe
had a right to do, being skipper. ' Up the Firth
it is.'

And Sandy being at the ropes, the yacht swung
to the wind and made off in the direction proposed.
The children began clapping their hands,
and exchanged opinions in that broken tongue

which was, probably, the language of Paradise.
The Firth was good to them. It did not tumble
them about. It did not sicken them. It did not
drench them with spray. The farther they sailed
the louder they spoke, and as they came in sight
of Strawfield, hours after, Lady Mary, looking at
Hac, said,

You are my brother to-day. You could not
have devised anything for me that I could so
much have appreciated.'

RECRUITING

The Spray did her very best after she left Granton
Harbour. The breeze was not very strong, but
it seemed to have force enough to propel a
thousand yachts up the Firth at a great rate.
It carried them beyond the Artillery Buoy,
Cramond Isle, Queensferry, and distant parts
above, till they arrived opposite Lady Mary's
brother's place. The children were a little bewildered
and shy at first. There was no reason
why they should have been so. Each of them

VOL. II K

had been through Lady Mary's hand in the hospital,
and was familiar with her presence in the
wards ; all of them knew Hac by sight ; some of
them had seen Sandy. Sandy, however, did not
encourage their approaches ; he thought they were
apt to be a little too familiar; and when a boy
near him with a crutch asked what the red buoy
was, after they had cleared out of Granton, Sandy
did not answer. He looked upon it as an impertinence.
He was of opinion that the children
ought to whisper. Perhaps he was offended because
they opened fire upon him first of all, being
of a commoner type than Hac and Lady Mary.
Anyhow, he did not like it, and he did not answer
the little boy with the crutch, and his silence
made the children keep their lips closed all the
way up to Cramond. By that time, however, the
salt air had got into their blood ; the original
wickedness which was in them began to assert
itself, and they laughed and clapped their hands,

RECRUITING 147

and asked questions of each other, Hac, and Lady
Mary, without any respect of persons.

Her ladyship was, at first, a little nervous, going
up the Firth. She was afraid they might meet her
brother's yacht. She concluded, however, that he
would not have his yacht there at that time of the
year. Indeed, he might be making speeches in the
House of Lords. If so, so much the better. Apart
from that, she enjoyed the sail very nmch, and
sitting beside Hac in the stern, she smiled and
laughed at the little reports of the children's
speeches he brought her from time to time. They
were all very rosy in the face, when, hours later,
the yacht cast anchor opposite lier brother's
mansion. There was a little difficulty about
getting ashore, but Hac said there need be none';
so Lady Mary, clinging to him, with her arms
round his neck, allowed him to wade on to a very
nice beach, to which all the children were taken,
one after another being brought ashore very like

Lady Mary. They ate a great deal of the material
set down to them by Sandy and Hac ; then they
beofan crawling on all-fours to look for shells ;
such specimens as they got being presented to
Hac, who knew nothing about them, and then to
Sandy, who could answer any question aljout anything,
as if he had been the Admirable Bain, successor
to Crichton, of the same capacity. By-and-bye,
having eaten their luncheon, they showed a
desire to disperse in the wood, and Lady Mary
was left alone with Hac, Sandy having followed
the young ones.

We shall not have time to sail back. My
brother is in London. I shall get a loan of as
many conveyances as will carry us all back. \ ou
can send a man round for the yacht from Granton
al'ber wards.'

All right,' said Hac, happy in Lady Mary's
presence, and understanding that it was the last
time he would see her before she left for Vienna.

How they scream, to be sure !' said Lady Mary.

Yes ; they are enjoying themselves.'

I shall be sorry to leave them.*

Yes, I suppose you will.'

Poor things, they grow into one's heart ! '

I suppose they do. Look at that little rascal
with the crutch belabouring his little cousin with
the broken arm Ah ! good ! there's Sandy.'

A sign o£ health.'

A vigorous sisfn.'

I go to Vienna this week.'

I am sorry you are going.'

Yes ; I think you are.'

Very sorry.'

Perhaps the only one who really cares.'

That's impossible.'

No ; not so impossible as you think.'

You are universally — verbally — loved.'

Liked — not loved. There is a difference. I love
to be liked ; I do not like to be loved.'

1 do not understand.'

'No?'

'No.'

'To be liked is to be useful, to be able to do good ;
to be loved is to be useless, to be followed about, to
be considered the aim and object — the red artillery
target we have just passed of such as you, Hac.'

Perhaps.'

'Not perhaps — certainly I do not care for
love ; I appreciate liking.'

You will be in Vienna for a long time ? '

For years.'

I shall come to Vienna.'

To study ? '

To see Lady Mary Hay.'

Poor Hac ? You will learn that I am more
deeply consecrated to my art than you suppose ;
that I am invincible ; that I cannot be run after
over the face of Europe. Dear Hac, you must

turn in upon your studies, and forget that you
have thought that you have ever cared about me.'

Forget ? '

Ah ! the children are joining hands and dancing
under my brother's old trees. See, the master of
ceremonies is Sandy. He knows how to range
them.'

Sandy knows everything.'

They trip it very prettily, advancing, retiring,
bowing to each other — ah ! the poor boy with the
crutch ! — and Sandy, to judge from the rotundity
of his mouth, whistling a tune to which they go.'

In three days, then, you go ? '

In two.'

To Vienna ? '

To Vienna.'

I shall follow.'

No, Hac, you will not.'

I shall dream of following

! '

Without you, what Jo you think Edinburgh
will be ? What <lo you think the profession
will be ? Will life be worth living, Mary Hay ?
It will be too utterly desolate, meaningless and
without joy, or anticipation of it. I shall go
into mourning as if I were a widower.'

See, the children are dancing down towards
us. Children, you will come with me to the
housekeeper's room of Strawfield. She does
not expect us, but she is always prepared for
emergencies, and this is an emergency she will
enjoy. Hac, the sky is getting dark with clouds.
The sun has retired from view. The Firth has
risen. I was rio^ht, I think, in sus^gestinor that
we should, all of us, drive back. What ilo you
think, Mr Baxter ? '

I'm ready for any emergency, like the housekeeper.'


Well, let us all go up together. Hac ? '

Yes.'

Hac, when I have gone to Vienna, you will
work at your profession ? '

I shall try.'

You will Ah, the housekeeper ! My dear

Mrs Donaldson, this is rather a visitation.*

Lady Mary, there is nobody at home. We can
take you all in. I hope, dear heart, you are
well?'

Yes, thanks. Have you carriages to spare ? '

I think so. We have carts, at any rate, for
these.'

For these .? '

Yes, your ladyship.'

" Inasmuch as " You know the rest.'

Yes, your ladyship.'

Very well ; tint carriages ; we do not return by
yacht. My brother has not been home lately ? '

He is oroino- round the world.'

Globe-trotting ? '

Yes, your ladyship.'

I thought he had gone to the House of Lords
to air his views — chiefly against us, Mrs Donaldson,
for he hates me for throwing over the traditions
of the family and becoming a nurse — a nun
a sister — a practitioner. Yes, yes, the little ones
only want a little green grass, a few trunks of
trees, and a glint of the shine of the sun, to find
abundant amusement. Poor little ones ! How
they laugh ! How they crow ! How much they
find to amuse each other in looking round a moss-covered
stem and meeting, eye to eye, and face to
face ! I cannot look on their enjoyment with dry
eyes, now I am leaving them.'

But, my lady, you will have children of your
own.'

Never, never.'

Oh, do not speak as if you had taken a vow of
celibacy. Never is a long word.'

Never.'

'My lady, I will call them all in. and the gentlemen,

too, and you will have carriages home to
Edinburgh, and God bless you !'

I shall say " Good-bye " to Hac, and stay at
home one night before I set out to Vienna. Hac
speak to me aside.'

THE Spent SPLINT

Few things are more difficult in life than getting
into a passion with propriety. Propriety presupposes
a certain amount of reflection in the person
who affects it, and the essence of passion is explosion.
Sir Thomas Spens, when crossed, irritated, and
roused, was nothing if not an explosive force. It
was not good for anybody to be near him when he
was thus affected, and Hac felt that one day, after
the summer session came to an end and he had
returned to Binkie.



The end o£ the Session brought nothing new to
Hac. He had stood fairly well in his classes —
that is, he was on the lists, though low down, while
Sandy got both the medals. But he was otherwise
provoking to his father, for it had been coming out
week after week, that he had contracted large
debts.

At first Sir Thomas said nothing about them.
When a tailor sent in a large bill, he paid it without
comment ; Hac, at the time, being at Christie's
in Forfarshire. Then a manufacturer of philosophical
instruments sent in a bill for a microscope
and endless specimens, and for other articles in
steel and brass remotely connected with the summer
studies.

To these he said ' Pshaw ! ' as he paid them.

Presently in came a collection of bills from booksellers
; five of them, one after another, each bigger
than its neighbour.

Pshaw ! pshaw ! ' said Sir Thomas on that
occasion.

Accounts came in from a furnishing decorator,
and a dealer in articles of vertu, from a dealer in
marine stores, and a manufacturer of compasses,
from a hatter, and a fruiterer, a jeweller, and a
stationer.

Pshaw ! pshaw ! pshaw ! This is too much of
a good thing ! ' said the baronet, rising from the
perusal of the bills, and witnessing the shedding of
cheques like leaves in Vallombrosa. ' Too much of
a good thing ! Why, the lad has been living at
the rate of six hundred pounds a-year ! — six
positive, individual hundred pounds a-year ! He
seems to have been buying everything that his
eye saw. Hac ! Hac ! '

At the time, Hac was in the garden. He was
finding it rather lonely. Sandy had not come over
for holidays ; he was taking his holidays with a

pupil who was travelling in the Highlands, and
who kept up some of his summer studies.

Isaac ! Isaac ! ' shouted the baronet, when his
son did not respond to his summons.

Isaac put in an alarmed head. He knew that
Sir Thomas had some preparations of the tail ends
of the nerve at the back of the eyeball of a mole,
on glass slides, about which he was acutely anxious.
He hoped nothing had occurred to them like the
tumbling of the bottle of nitric acid one day over
the same nerves in the back of the eyeball of a
bat, which Sir Thomas declared had cost him the
labour of years.

The labour of years, you reckless, heedless, misguided
fool of sixty ! ' cried the baronet, looking at
the ruined filaments on the slides and at the open
mouth of his henchman.

It was an accident. Sir Thomas,' said Isaac.
I didn't observe there was a stopper in the bottle,
and that it contained nitric acid. Now, the contents

of any other little would have passed over
the surface of the slide harmless. I'm regretful
that our experiment should have come to such
an untimely conclusion. But there are plenty
more bats hanging by their feet under the branches
o' the trees. I can get ye a mizzen any night.
An' I do not like to be reminded o' my years in
that passionate manner, Sir Thomas Spens.'

Grief closed the baronet's mouth on that occasion,
and he waved his servant from the room. On the
present occasion, however, he kept on,

Isaac : Isaac ! bring my son here, will you ? '

And Isaac, hastening into the garden, searched
for Hac, and warned him that he was afraid his
father had something disagreeable to say to him.

Disagreeable ! ' said Hac, abandoning a book
and rising from a sheltered arbour. ' What is that

o

for, Isaac ? What have I been doing ? '

I couldn't really say, sir ; but there are letters
on the table, and the cheque-book's out. He's been

tearing' away at them all morning', Mr Hac, and I
think — yes, I think he's a little tired of it. But
you'll see for yourself, sir.'

Hac went into the study, and saw his father on
his hearth rug. His cheque-book was in his hand,
or, rather, the boards of the book, for the cheques
were all torn out of it. Sir Thomas grasped the
empty volume with every symptom of aggravated
disdain.

Oh, you are there — eh ? eh ? '

Yes, father. What is it ? '

'What is it, sir?'

Yes, father.'

It's that ! ' said Sir Thomas, holding out the
exhausted cheque-book. ' Do I own a sugar mill,
sir ? Am I a brewery ? Am I a pilfering but
opulent retail trader ? '

How do you mean, father ? '

Eh ? eh ? What do you think I am ? I'm not

Croesus, hang you ! Eh ? eh ? '

VOL. II L

And, for sheer lack of language, Sir Thomas'
cheeks swelled, and the veins in his brow grew
large, and his eyes gathered an expression of fiery-vehemence
in them which Hac had not seen there
before.

You're very well off, aren't you, father ? I
always thought you were. You never said you
weren't.'

Very well off, sir ! Do you suppose a practising
surgeon can retire with a limitless fortune ? Do
you think that the profession you have adopted
is a paying profession — that it is anything else
than the hardest worked and the most badly-remunerated
profession in the world ? '

What did you send me into it for, then ? '

'The most badly-remunerated profession in the
world, in which there is no honour to be got, as at
the Church or the Bar, and on which there are cast
innumerable gibes and insults from a world of idiots
idiots who despise the doctor till they want him,

then run for him, and malign him when they
recover. Why, you young fool, I am a poor man,
and you are drawing on me to the extent of six

hundred pounds a-year ! It's ' so and so, and

so and so, and so and so. For Sir Thomas burst
into stronger lano-uao-e, and sustained it for sometime,
than was for the good of young folk to
hear.

Hac was terribly disturbed. He did not know
how to feel, how to look, how to answer his father.
He stood twisting his fingers, and thinking what
a want of personal taste there was in this
demonstration of rough anger.

Why, father,' he answered, when Sir Thomas
gasped to find his breath, ' you don't know all my
responsibilities, the sort of things I needed to buy,
and all that.'

Sir Thomas went on gasping, and thumped the
dull boards of the cheque-book together.

I am robbed, sir — literally and positively robbed

of three hundred pounds : You shall have fifty
pounds to get along on next session, and see how
YOU like it: Fifty pounds, sir, to teach you
economy — to show you how many a poor fellow
has the battle of life to fight; fifty pounds to
educate you ! '

I can't positively do it on that,' said Hac,
thinking Roo-er and the weekly bill of
mortality.

•' I did it on less, sir ; I did it on less. Eh ? eh ?
You can't, positively ? Hang it, you are a born
fool ! Look at that ! ' And again the boards of
the exhausted cheque-book drearily flapped against
each other. ' You will oblige me by sitting down
and giving me a succinct account of the year — of
the entire year, from October to August — with
every item of expenditure which has brought
robbery upon me.'

My dear father, I couldn't do that to save my

life. I positively thought you said to me that it
didn't matter — that I might order what I required.'

No doubt. On three hundred a-year you might
order anything — anything that you required —
anything that an undergraduate had the least
necessity to buy. Now, I insist upon it — a full
account of the year, from October to August.'

Sir Thomas tossed his cheque-book afar off. It
fell with a dull thud at the skeleton feet of a
skunk, shook the skunk's fore-paws, and flapped
wide open.

A whole year ! ' said Hac, turning his eyes upto
the roof. ' Well, father, not much has happened
in it. I hope I can tell you it all. I don't know
whether you will think I ought to be excused on
the back of it ; but, if you will listen attentively,
tliero's no reason why I should not say what I
have experienced. I have sung songs about it.
Some of it has been intense — utter — consummate.
T have been readings dear Mr Ruskin, and I must

use the phrases which belong to my knowledge.

From October Yes. Well, October was a

wretched month. I just passed my preliminary.
I knew nobody. I had not matriculated. I had
not met Lady Mary Hay. I had not been introduced
to Dr Crum. I had not seen Professor
Stewart. I had not bought a book. I had not
bought an instrument. I had not been in the
college library. I had not seen an old schoolfellow.
I had not '

'■ For Heaven's sake, Hac, do not be so prosy
and literary. Do not be literary. Be scientific.
Be accurate, precise, downright. But do not spin
it out so long.'

Father, you are unreasonable.'

Sir Thomas sat down and folded his hands, and
seemed inclined to close his eyes. It was a hopeful
symptom. Hac saw that his wrath was exhausted.

My education,' said Hac, ' has been wholly

scientific, though my tastes are, probably, artistic.
Tree — oh. Tree says they are altogether artistic'

Tree has been your ruin,' said Sir Thomas.

No, father. Tree is the best of men. He is like
Dr Dale and Dr Crum — much misunderstood. If
the Royal Academicians would just agree to consider
that Tree's nerves are different from theirs
and that the " To Pan " pulls them to different
issues, I can assure you, father, they would soon
learn that Tree should be received among them, as
one of themselves, without surprise. I regard Tree
as a brother.'

I asked you to give me an account of your year.
I want to know who the ruffians are who have
been plucking the pigeon — the poor, self-satisfied
pigeon, who thinks he knows everything. Answer
me ! '

I am answering you. But I must submit my
opinions as I go along. Tree deserves to have an

LL.D. given him. He has more artistic culture
til an any of the professors.'

'Hang it!' shouted Sir Thomas, getting off his
chair, rising and walking to the skunk for his
cheque-book, ' I have asked you for the details
of your expensive year at college, and you offer
me elaborate opinions about who deserve degrees
honorary, honourable degrees. Who is Tree ?
We might as well give these letters to a war
correspondent, with the indefinite prospect of
obtaining from him the best military history in
Europe. Why, sir, he would forthwith sit down
upon his degree and think he had written it.'

Hac thought his father was cooling, and
proceeded :

Well, father, I will try not to be literary, but
to be scientific, and to let you know exactly how it
has been spent. I have had a very good landlady,
who has not overcharged me. You could nut
grumble at her accounts, on the whole. They

have been very reasonable — very much so, indeed.
She is a little superstitious, but not a cheat. Many
of my fellow-students have been cheated, but not
I. No. Even Sandy Baxter's landlady '

Who is Sandy Baxter ? '

Sandy Baxter ? '

'Yes.'

Do you not know about him ? '

Would I ask you if I did ? '

'Why, your grieve's son — the ablest man at the
University of Edinburgh.'

The — the — tawny boy with the inquiring eyes ?
Eh ? eh ? '

Yes, father.'

At the University ? '

'Yes.'

Studying medicine ? '

Yes.'

In the same classes with you ? '

Yes.'

My gri eve's son ? '

Yes.'
In — the — same Isaac ! Isaac ! '

Yes, Sir Thomas.'

Throw out these mutilated nerves.'

Yes, Sir Thomas.'

I have not heard of this before.'

I didn't think of telling you.'

Does this young man understand — my — splint ? '

Which one ? '

Ah ! which one, to be sure ! that is a sion of
intelligence on your part, poor pigeon ! The Spens
splint. Does he understand the Spens splint ? The
splint you placed upon the foreleg of the pony
when it was fractured by the hind leg of my
mare ? '

How do you mean, father ? '

Is it possible that you did not apply that
splint ? '

What splint ?

The splint upon the pony's leg. Isaac ! Isaac ! '

Yes, Sir Thomas.'

Send for Baxter at once, and bring him here.'

What do you want him for ? '

I want him to see what I have got for a son —
yes, for a surgical son and successor. Hac, I will
make a physician of you. You are not fit for anything
else. Only as a physician will you be able
to hold up your head with the world. You are
your mother's son, alas ! I thought you had inherited
the taste. But no ! I see it all now. The
grieve's son applied the splint. He is the surgeon ;
you are the fool. You shall be a physician.'

Exhausted ANGER

Having finished his interview with his son, Sir
Thomas Spens rose and walked out of the Manor
into the fields. He was in a violent rao-e, and, at
his time of life, that is an expensive luxury. He
was much too good a pathologist not to know that
it would not do for his ancient heart to exaoforerate
its beating beyond a certain point ; that in the
case of its jumping too violently inside him he
might tumble, and the heart might not take up its
duties again. He was too much used to death to

fear it much ; still, he did not wish to die, so he
judiciously expended all his emotion upon the tops
of thistles ; and, as he walked, his stick whirled to
right and left, and little clouds of down floated in
the air.

The truth was, he was as angry with himself as
with his son. He began to think that, between his
bats, his moles, his owls, and his prolonged
experiments upon their eyesight, he might have
neglected this son of his. Perhaps he had not put
himself to the trouble of finding out what his
nature really was, and whether he was fitted for
this surgical work for which he had cut him out.
That might be, and if it were so, it was none the
less provoking to him.

His stick whistled to right and left, the thistle
heads fell, the down flew about, and it was only at
the proper moment that Mr Baxter's head showed
itself at the other side of a wall.

What Sir Thomas wanted and required was a

victim, and here was his grieve, apparently doing
nothing in particular — the grieve, who had a son
who was on the fair way to become a brilliant
surgeon, whereas Hac Spens, on his own showing,
was an ass.

Ah, Baxter,' said the baronet, with so much
suppressed anger that his grieve mistook his tone
for one of mild cordiality,

Fine weather for leading and driving, sir,' said
the grieve, resting his arms upon a stile and
looking over the baronet's head to a field of yellow
grain, where a man was sharpening a scythe upon
a stone, and a little crowd of women were weathering:
the cut grain, binding it, and building the sheaves
into ' stooks.'

I daresay. Very fine ; very fine, indeed.'

There'll be no cause for complaint this year
sir, of percentage of bushels to the acre. None.'

No cause of complaint ! No, no. Will you be
good enough to tell me, Baxter, who placed that

splint upon the fore leg of that pony in the spring
of the year ? Eh ? eh ? '

The grieve removed his cap and scratched his
head, and, looking into Sir Thomas' face, saw that
he was in a rage — that the cause of the rage was
the discovery that Alexander Baxter's son had
more brains than his own.

Eh ? eh ? '

There's no cause for anger, sir.'

No ? '

No, sir.'

But what if I say there is cause for anger —
deep and vital cause for it ? What if I say that
I have never in my life had greater reason to
rise up in my wrath and crush a few people ? '

And Sir Thomas, forgetting for a little the
pathology of his heart, allowed his face to become
suffused with the pulses of anger before he turned
savagely upon the thistles and smote them, hip and
thigh. The grieve adjusted his cap and walked off

with a tremendous width of stride. When Sir
Thomas turned, he saw him thirty yards away,
and though he shouted ' Baxter 1 Baxter ! ' after
him, he would not resume his conversation. He
seemed preternaturally busy about something far
in advance of him.

The baronet was out of breath now. He stopped
whipping the thistles. He looked down into the
field of yellow grain, where the man with the
scythe was mowing, and the reapers were following
his footsteps and picking up the ears. It was a
pretty pastoral sight, but it did not soothe him.
He walked straight on to the Mains, and was presently
standing in the doorway, while Mrs Baxter,
with a large linen apron on, stood ladling jam into
pots. A young lady was sitting at the end of the
table addressing the skins which covered the pots.
It was all black currant jam, and she was writing"
that down. Sir Thomas seemed to have seen the
girl before, but he was not sure. He half-inclined



his head to her, however, as he roughly asked Mrs
Baxter,

'Well, ma'am, well, where's that paragon of
yours ? Will you tell me that ? '

His rage had not subsided. Mrs Baxter, startled,
dropped her ladle into the jam, and wiped her
mouth, after which she made a rather awkward
cheese ' to him.

Where is he, ma'am ? '

Is it Alexander, Sir Thomas ? '

Is that his name ? '

Is it my husband you would see ? '

No, not particularly ; no, at this moment it's
your paragon — your surgical genius — the fellow
who put up the splint — your son, ma'am.'

Oh, Sandy, poor fellow ! He's away in the
Hi elands, travelling with a pupil. He'll not be
back for some weeks, I believe.'

He's travelling in the Highlands, is he ? You've
sent him to the University, ma'am.'

VOL. II M

No, Sir Thomas.'

I tell you, you have. No equivocation to me.
You've given him a college education. You're
giving it him now. Don't deny it. He's distinguishing
himself, ma'am. He's taking medals.
He understands my splint. He set it up in the

spring of the year. D me, ma'am, don't deny

it ; but I've been fooled all this time. I thought it
was my son's handiwork. I find now it was yours.
That's a pretty state of matters, isn't it ? I believe
I gave it as my opinion that your son would be
leading a useful and healthy life if he took up the
plough as a profession. Do sou understand me
ma'am — the plough ? '

Mrs Baxter pursed her lips, took up a pot, and
began ladling the jam, as if there were no Sir
Thomas there at all.

I believe, ma'am, I see medals on your mantelpiece.
I do see medals — one — two — three — four —
five of them in a row.'

He spoke as if he saw five unpopular insects
crawling upon her gown.

I believe you do, sir,' said Mrs Baxter, pride
mantling in her eye as she raised her ladle aloft.
These are what my son Sandy has taken within
the year — live medals, Sir Thomas.'

And you think it's all right, I suppose ? '

I do, sir.'

But I tell you it's all wrong.'

I don't see it. Sir Thomas.'

No ; and I'll be bound to say my grieve don't
see it, either.'

He was scared enough at first about it ; but
Sandy has taught him. Sir Thomas, to look after
his own business, and Sandy will look after his.'

Oh, indeed ! And who is this young lady
labelling the jam ? '

Surely, Sir Thomas, this is Tibbie Baxter.'
What ! your daughter ? '

My daughter, sir — a grown girl now.'

I presume she has just returned from an expensive
boarding-school, ma'am. Piano — French —
use of the globes — accomplishments — eh ? eh ? '

Tibbie's face warmed into crimson, and she
murmured something which the baronet did not
hear.

I may tell you, Mrs Baxter, that I'm not ov^er-
satisfied.'

Don't you be too hard on him, Sir Thomas.'

'I can't pretend to regulate my temper in the
face of provocation like this.'

But think, sir, of the long time he has been
without a mother's care and attention, and love
and affection.'

Well, I suppose that's your fault, not mine.'

I don't understand you, sir.'

Then you're a mighty simpleton for your pains.
I suppose it depended upon you whether he was
to have affection.'

Poor young fellow, he's always had my esteem

and regard. But since his mother died he has been
thrown a great deal upon himself.'

Who are you talking about ? '

Mr Hac.'

Then, ma'am, I'm talking about your son, and
we are at cross-purposes. You will, perhaps,
oblige me by taking possession of the Manor, in
the next place — carting your furniture over to it
and taking possession. Five medals ! And my
son a fool ! '

Sir Thomas went out into the farmyard, where
a bantam crowed in his face, though he shook his
stick at it, and wandered away to a gate where he
searched the horizon for the grieve. But the grieve
kept out of his road, and there was nothing for it
but wanderings back again to his house. He had
exhausted himself in his anger. He shut himself
into his study, and refused to dine with his son.
He would not speak to him, at least, for that day.
It mio'ht do him a little o-ood to be left alone with

his reflections. A few bitter hours could do him
no harm.

Isaac, where is he ? ' he asked, later on in the
evening, while the shadows were falling and the
sun was o-oino- down.

o o

He's very much overcome, Sir Thomas. 1 fear
he has gone away by himself to grieve among the
trees, with a book in his hand

Very good.'

In the twilight, however, Sir Thomas let himself
out of the side of his garden and sauntered among
the trees behind the bay where Hac's yacht was.
He had not gone far before he heard suppressed
girlish laughter, and Hac's unrestrained voice
cheerfully exclaiming,

There, Tibbie, now ! that was pretty good,
wasn't it ^ I cut down a whole bushel with that
sweep of the scythe.'

Sir Thomas looked from behind an elm. and saw
his son manipulating a weighty scythe among a

field of wheat, and close behind him, out of range
of the sweep of the instrument, stooped the young-lady
he had seen labelling the jam in the afternoon.
It was disappointing to him. He had hoped his
son was sorry He had expected him to be wandering
up and down, absorbed, with a dismal
foreboding of evil in his mind, and resolutions
formed for economy and hard work against a
coming session. But no ! In the sound of his
voice there was nothing but gay cheerfulness as he
went on conversing with the oriel at his feet.

Now I've cut enough, Tibbie. You show me
how to bind it up, will you ? '

Oh, it's quite easy,' said the young lady. ' You
just take a handful of wheat this way — look. Now
you twist this way tilsit holds like a rope, and
now you lay it on the]^ground and lift the wheaton
it, this way ; then you gather the ends together.
Oh, ni}^ ! there was a nettle stung me just now.
You gather the ends together, and twist, and twist,

and twist, and shove the tail of it under — and
there's a sheaf.'

'How pastoral! how innocent!' murmured Sir
Thomas. 'It would make everything complete if
it were to turn out that that girl was making eyes
at my son and meant to marry him — the fool ! '

Hac stooped, and, from his point of view at the
elm, the baronet saw nothing more. He was sure,
however, that there was something worth seeing ;
so he ascended the bank at the stile, and from a
high vantage-ground looked down upon his son's
doings. They were not very serious ; he was only
helping Tibbie to tie up another sheaf, but their
heads were very close.

So ! ' said Sir Thomas, sarcastically ; and the
heads went apart, and the sheaf fell to pieces, and
Hac stood up confronting his father.

And this is the young lady who was engaged
upon the jam. Have you been long my son's instructor
in the agricultural arts ? '

Oh, father ! this is only Tibbie — Tibbie Baxter,
Sandy's sister. Come and let me introduce you to
father, Tibbie.'

Sir Thomas bowed elaborately ; Tibbie curtseyed,
and seemed inclined to walk off. She did
not, however, till the baronet remarked that he
would like to speak with his son again. She then
picked up the scythe and departed, and Hac
lounged to the stile.

It is my profound conviction,' said the father,
that you have been born without a cerebrum,
Hac — that you are an irresponsible creature —
that you will shortly die of idiocy and inanition.'

PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE

The autumn holidays unwound themselves slowly
at Binkie, and Haeoo did not enjoy them in the
least. Sandy was away all the time. Tibbie
mysteriously disappeared ; and it was only after
indefinite trouble that Hac found out from the
housekeeper that she had been sent to Edinburgh
to learn dressmaking.

She is a giddy girl,' said the housekeeper, confidentially
' who has sudden' turned out quite
o'ood-lookini>- on her mother's hands, and who gives

herself airs accordingly. It's a sad misfortune fora
plain girl to become attractive all of a sudden.
It turns their heads, and they think themselves
ever so much more valuable than they are. Now,
for my part, I wouldn't give a plain girl for a
pretty girl, Mr Hac.'

How's that ? '

'Because they are worth so much more. They
can do so many things that the pretty ones can't.'

Well, I suppose they must. We don't ask the
pretty ones to do a great deal. We only want
them to send on second, third, fourth, and fifth
editions of themselves to posterity, to keep the
world smiling.'

Ah, sir, you don't know what you are talking
about. It's them that gives all the trouble — that

o

makes all the mischief. If we had one or two
generations of quite ugly women, Mr Hac, the
world would be perfect.'

You think holiness is morality ? '

Well, I think it's the angel with the flaming
sword which watches over the Seventh Commandment.'


You do ? '

Yes.'

Then you take a meaner view of the world
than I do. Tell Isaac to tell little Waters to put
a dish of peaches in the arbour near the west
parapet. I'm going to read there.'

Hac meditated much upon the sending away of
Tibbie Baxter to Edinburgh. He agreed with the
housekeeper that she had quite suddenly turned
out to be pretty, and he had come to that time of
life when he thought not to be in love was hiofh
treason to his nature. He lay in his arbour with
his dish of peaches and his book, and looked upon
the palpitating Firth and its driving sea-birds, and
heard its low monotone of breaking waves, and
assured himself, that, certainly, he had a right to
be in love. With whom ^ With Lady Mary (H*

Tibbie ? He knew he was in love, but he could
not definitely say with which. Perhaps he would
have been right if he had said with both ; but then
that would have been too much of a good thing.
He looked out on the Firth, and told himself that
he had a grand passion for Lady Mary, and a
simple, unaffected love for Tibbie. He loved
Tibbie as he might a pony, or a doe, or a caged
canary ; Lady Mary as a benign goddess who condescended
to be friendly with him, to interest
herself in his behalf, and to warn him of his
faults. Yet at that point he felt there
was a difference — that his love in the one case
lapsed into veneration, while in the other it
glowed into a familiar fire ; where he could lift
Lady Mary's fingers to his lips he could take
Tibbie to his heart. There was a difference. He
did not know what to make of it ; but from starting
with the presumption that he had a grand
passion for Lady Mary, he came to the conclusion

HACO THE DREAMER

that he had a deep respect for her and the deeper
emotion for Tibbie. After all, was there not something
more profoundly romantic in loving a pretty
peasant girl than in giving one's heart to the sister
of an earl ? There was no self-seeking, no alloy of
selfishness, no pride of the world, in loving Tibbie.
It was emotion pure and simple — the clear wellspring
of affection. Besides, Tibbie never reproached
him ; she never pointed out the way in
which he ought to go. She never said what he
must do to reach perfection. She was content to
take him as he was — a dreaming student, without
aim and object. On the whole, looking at the
matter from the point of view of his arbour, and
the moaning sea and the spectacle of the city
beyond, he concluded that it was Tibbie who had
his heart, and Lady Mary who had his understandings.
He felt sure it was, for he missed the o'ii'l as he
went out among the trees and looked up and down
the fields, and heard nothing but the rattle of a stone

upon a scythe and the grieve reprimanding the
reapers. Nor did his father's attitude to him decrease
his sentiment to her. His father leaped
to the conclusion that he was ]a fool, and went
on treating him as such. It was ' Eh ? eh ? ' forever
and a day; not a word of affection, not a
syllable of sympathy. Sir Thomas turned his
back on him when he spoke; never asked him
to witness the progress of his investigations into
the eye ; never treated him as if he were a student
of the sciences at all. He could not recover the
episode of the splint, and his irritation at the applause
he had falsely bestowed upon Hac. He
had no mind to forgive the ridiculous extravagance
of his year at college, so he punished him by ignoring
him and being rude to him, and letting him
know as often as he met him, in house, field,
or garden, that he was only worthy of notice to be
sneezed at or pooh-poohed.

Hac may have deserved that treatment, but

it sent him across the Firth a week or two before
the beffinnincc of a new session, with some bitterness
in his disposition towards the author of his
being, and with a quiet craving for sympathy. That
was not lessened by the difficulties which again
met him at Queen Street, Mrs E-amsay was
surprised to hear him say that he had not liked
her forwarding bills of arrears to Sir Thomas.

Deary me, Mr Spens, sir, what is it to the like
of your father, the matter of a few pounds, when
my husband, the bank messenger, has never been
able to get employment again ? '

I don't believe you have a husband, Mrs
Ramsay,' said Hac, who had never seen or heard
him speak, though he was a subject of incessant
allusion to Mrs Ramsay. It was not convenient
for her to discuss the subject any longer, so she
left him to pursue an accumulation of letters,
among them a little heap of Roger's demands for
arrears which had crept up in the interval. Hac

had been so impressed with his father's coolness,

that though he had been sent back to college with

an undiminished allowance, he determined to make

heroic efforts to retrench. He had a great mind,

at the outset of the session, to put the whole casein

a lawyer's hand, as Sandy had long before

advised him. Then he shrank from it under

the old feelings of cowardice at beings confronted

in public with the man's death, and at a certain

softness at his heart, which told him that in

feeding the dead man's orphans he was engaged

in a stood thino\ Still, the sio^ht of the letters

vexed him terribly, and he felt the weight of a

literal millstone round his neck as he read them.

The first night of his return, he strolled up to the

Mound to see Tree. He found Tree in his studio,

with Professor Stewart, a couple of editors, and one

or two aged nondescript, with spectacles on their

noses. Tree had not much time to give to him.

He was diligently attempting to sell one or two of
VOL II N

his pictures, and he was giving a private view of
another, and entertaining Professor Stewart at
large.

The professor had only returned from the Highlands,
and was the hue of bronze, and tossed his
plaid about him with the strength of a Shetland
pony throwing his superfluous mane off his eyes.
He recognised Hac at once, and, neglecting the
purchasers, he came round to him among the easels,
sqon^^iug'

Spens, Spens ! Back to college ! Understand
me, now — my house is open to you. Let me see,
you are a member of the " Hellenic ? '"

No, Professor Stewart ; I am sorry to say I am
only a member of the Blue Pill Society, which
reads a paper once a- week during the winter session.'

Blue Pill Society ! Now, that's a mistake. A
man like you, with golden hair a maid of eighteen
might be proud of, should take his recreation in
some other way. You can't read Greek ? '

Not very well.'

Well, come and sit and look like a Greek
There are a few of us snuffy old codgers who wil
be very glad to see you ; and if you can't make
much of a cobbled chorus, never mind ; you can
give us " Sir Patrick " afterwards in your best
style. The Blue Pill Society! It's enough to
make any boy aged before he's born. I don't
approve of these institutions at all. The Man in
the Iron Mask is all very well for an argument
or whether Wallace would have achieved the independence
of Scotland single-handed, if Warren
hadn't given him up ; or whether it is better in
church to have music produced through the nose
or assisted by an organ; — all these questions are
very well — very well, Spens. But Blue Pills ! '

I don't like them.'

Quite right. Neither stomachically nor by way
of argument ought you to like them.'

It's cruel, besides, I think.'

Cruel to the man who swallows them ?'

Or to the beasts.'

Beasts ? How d'ye mean ? '

As far as I know, they are only given to
beasts. Why, Professor Stewart, it would make
your heart bleed to see Kendrick's back-yard. I
should say Kendrick was a little mercenary, and
rather soft-hearted, but by no means cruel. Well
his back-yard is full of street-doors. One doc
hasn't got a tail ; Kendrick has whipped it off
with a knife. Another dog hasn't got a left eye ;
Kendrick has seared it out with a hot iron. A
third hasn't got a left fore-paw; Kendrick has
amputated it. A fourth hasn't got an entire skull :
Kendrick has chipped it like an egg, and removed
a bit of brain, to see the brute dance a physiological
waltz. A fifth has a tube right through
the side into his liver. A sixth wears his hearten
his sleeve. It is sickening, Professor Stewart.

I hate it — I loathe it. I do not believe they discover
anything.'

Poor Spens ! you are very much in earnest.
Look in at the " Hellenic." We can do better for
you than that. Now, Tree, Tree, my dear fellow
you are selling that picture dirt cheap. I know
your friend with the spectacles. It's William
Idson, a man with a dirty chimney, and more
guineas than he can count. Idson, don't you pretend
that Tree's view from your front door is
only worth four hundred pounds ; it's worth four
times four hundred, and it's all very easy for you
to heap up money at the back of your counter.
Any man with a blunt conscience and a trade can
do it; but he can't paint Tree's pictures. Tree
don't give it him under eight hundred.'

They were bargaining when Hac went out.

Sandy was to be at his rooms that night. He
would go up and see him. So to Buccleuch Place
he set off. He had no great anxiety about seeing

Sandy; but he thought he might hear about
Tibbie — how she came to be in Edinburgh ; where
she was working; : how she liked it.

It was greatly to his delight when he knocked
at the door to have it opened by Tibbie, who was
dressed in a tight-fitting; carmine-coloured own,
and who looked ten times more good-looking than
ever he had seen her.

She showed him into Sandy's room, her eyes
sparkling, and as she closed the door she said,

Sandy's landlady has a sister sick in the Potter's
Row, and she thought it would save a doctor's fee
if he would look at her. They have just gone off
together. I am keeping house for them.'

'Well, Tibbie, I am mighty glad to see you.'

*You couldn't be more pleased than I am, Mr
Hac.'

'Tibbie, drop the "mister." It is really time you
called me Hac, as Sand does. I am delighted to

Iq

meet you again. You are looking ever so much
better than the last time.'

I think I like living in town.'

I hope you haven't to work hard, Tibbie ? '

Not very, and it's nice work. I made all Lady
Mary Hay's bodices, and packed them for her to
Vienna.'

I say ! '

Yes, indeed I did. She has a waist like '

Not like yours, Tibbie.'

Please not to put your arm round me.'

Why not ? '

Because they might come in, and I would look
confused ; and Sandy wouldn't like it.'

Oh, bother Sandy ! '

He wouldn't, I assure you.'

Well, I don't care a snap of my thumb about
Sandy. Do you know, Tibbie, I have made up my
mind to a great resolve.'

Have you, Hac ? '

Yes. Can you guess what it is ? '

No, Hac.'

Tibbie, you can.'

I cannot, indeed, unless it is that you are to
unwind your arms and let me sit free at the table,
where I have so much work to do.'

Tibbie, you are a hypocrite ; you knows perfectly.
You know that I have missed you dreadfully
at Binkie, and that I am greatly in need
of some one to look after my purse and to keep
house for me. This is my second year now, and I
get into such a lot of trouble, Tibbie — everybody
robbing me, and nobody pitying me, and father
calling me all the fools ; and I want you to be my
little wife.'

The colour died away from Tibbie's face ; she
looked ghastly pale, and leaned heavily on Hac.

Hac,' she said, ' your father would never forgive
you.'

He doesn't need to know '

And my father ? '

Doesn't need to know.'

And Sandy ? '

Bother Sandy.'

And my mother ? '

She would be quite pleased, I'm sure. I'm a
tremendous favourite of hers. She would like
having me for a son-in-law. And I know this,
Tibbie, that if I had you for a wife, sitting opposite
me in the evenings when I came home from
college, I should work a great deal better. It
would be the making of me. Tibbie, say you will
be my wife.'

Hac, you are not serious.'

I am.'

No, you are not. You are trying to make a
fool of me ' — tears.

Tibbie, I have been thinking all autumn that
I should greatly like to have you for my wife —
that it would make all the difference in the world

to me. We can do it in this way ; I can take 3'ou
to a Sheriff's and sign something in his office, and
it is all right, we are man and wife. Why, Tibbie,
I have three hundred a-year. I am sure many a
man marries on less.'

Tibbie sobbed outright and clutched his arm, and
said,

Oh, Hac ! Your father — your father 1 What
would he say ? '

It isn't what he would say, Tibbie ; it's what
you would say. I consider that he has forfeited
all title to dictate to me what I should do. He
has been so cold, and rude, and rough, that I must
go my way without thinking about him. He
can't possibly — his human nature couldn't let him
be one bit rougher if he knew I were married.
You see I have experienced the worst.'

And Lady Mary, Hac ? '

'I shall always esteem her, and admire and
reverence her, at a distance — a great far-off*

distance, seeing her as a good angel, a kind of lady
abbess of a free order of nuns. She will never
marry — at any rate, she will never marry me.
Tibbie, believe me, I am bitterly, passionately in
earnest. You will come with me to the Sheriff
tomorrow or the next day, and no one need know
till we choose to tell them.'

'Ah!'

When we are married I will tell you the history
of a great mystery, and perhaps you will help to
take me out of it ; how, one day, I was the means
of depriving a man of his life '

'Hac!'

Yes, of his life ; and how another man levied
two pounds a-week on me on the spot, and keeps
it up now, week after week, till I have quarrelled
with my father and found life not worth living for
vexation.'

Dear Hac ! '

Dear TiLbie ! And you will marry me tomorrow
? '
Yes
Then am I a saved man, and all will be well.'

AN INCIDENT

A FORTNIGHT passed, and Tibbie went back to her
work at the dressmaker's in George Street, and
Hac joined his classes. Hac thought over his
suggestion about marriage, and came to the conclusion
that he had done a wise thing in proposing
to Tibbie. He did not look into the future and
ask himself what would come of it. He only felt
that he greatly wanted affectionate companionship
in his studies, and that, under the circumstances,

he had better marry Tibbie. He consulted Mrs
Ramsay about it.

Mrs Ramsay,' he said, ' I will have to give up
my rooms and go.'

What ? '

Yes ; I am very sorry ; but I am incurring new
responsibilities, and, really, your terms are very
high.'

Two pounds a- week, Mr Spens. That is really
very little for the rooms you have, and the view.
You can see your dear father's manor in the distance,
with a telescope.'

I would rather not.'

Well, I can give you a room looking into the
back-yard, with nothing but cats at night and cocks
in the morning. You can have that, Mr Spens, for
sixpence a- week off the rent.'

Sixpence, Mrs Ramsay 1 What can I do on the
saving of a sixpence ? Can I keep a wife on a sixpence
saved ? '



No, you cannot, Mr Spens.'

That's just the question, however.'

Bless the boy, a wife ! '

Yes, a wife — Mrs Hac Spens.'

I never ! '

On the prospect of marriage, Mrs Ramsay, I
begin to be an economist, and I must have something
ois them, or I will 0^0.'

Very well, Mr Hac ; but I shall feel it my duty
to write to Sir Thomas Spens and say to him that
you have made a clandestine match. Yes; its my
plain duty to do so.'

That would be rather shabby.'

But it would be my duty.'

It would be awfully shabby, none the less.'

I have no other option before me, if you insist
upon going.'

Then suppose I stay ? '

Suppose ! '

Yes — that I keep my rooms and go on paying
my two pounds, and bring my wife.'

What is she like ? Is she young, or middle-aged,
or old ? '

Young.'

Is she really young, or does she say she is ? '

Both;

She is, and says she is ? '

No, she doesn't need to say it. She is really
young — younger than I am.'
Oh, poor thing ! '

'You don't need to pity her.'

No, no, I don't. Youth has its compensations,
Mr Hac. But I'm sorry for you in anticipation of
what may come.'

And what do you anticipate ? '

It's not for me to say. But I'd be quite pleased
that you should have my rooms at the old price ;
and if your wife is young I'll not be afraid of her,

and we needn't quarrel. Is she — is she — a lady
Mr Haeoo ? '
Of course.'
I'm glad of that. '

Very well, then, I'll bring my wife home one of
these days, and no questions will be asked by Mrs
Ramsay ? '
None.'

Hac met Tibbie on the North Bridge one day.
She was carrying a dress home to somebody, and
being clad in a cloak of homespun, she looked
plainer than usual. But he did not think so.
Ah, Tibbie ! ' said Hac.

Yes,' she said, nervously, half-inclined to hurry
on to the end of her journey without further
speech.

Where are you going ? '

'With a bodice to Moray Place'

Who to ? '

'A Miss Watson.'

VOL. II O

Give me it.'

She gave it him, and, walking on a few paces,
he took out a shilling and presented it to a boy,
who promised to convey it to its destination.

'Now, Tibbie, you have plenty of time to come
and get married.'

Hac ! '

Yes, I know all about it. I have been to the
Sheriffs, and know how it is done. We only go
into a room and sign some papers, and he will ask
us one or two questions — then it is all right. I am
your husband after that for better or for worse.'

Hac 1 '

It took them exactly as long to get married as it
would have taken Tibbie to return from Moray
Place to her mistress. But they were irrevocable'
united, none the less.

You must come to Queen Street, now.'

To live ? '

Yes, to be sure ; you are my wife.'

'Hac, I cannot. I would be missed, and they
would write my mother, and my father would come
for me and it would be known.'

'But there's no use in our having got married,
then.'

'It will be very nice to know that we are
married, when people all round about us think
we are nothing to each other.'

o

Oh, that's nothing.'

While they conversed, the Sheriff who had united
them looked closely into their names, saw who
Hac was, and dashed off a little letter to an old
friend of his own. It was :

'My dear Sir Thomas Spens, — It has just
occurred to me that I have allowed a boy and a girl
to register themselves as man and wife, whom I
ought to have delayed for further inquiries. Not
that they are not legally married. They are, and
so indisputably man and wife, that no man can

put them asunder. I think it right, however, to
say that the man is Hac Spens, your son, aged
nineteen, and the wife — her hand shook so much
I cannot make out the first word — something
Baxter, daughter of Alexander Baxter, in your
neighbourhood. Had I been more alert, I micrht
have postponed this ; under the circumstances, I
can do nothing better than apprise you of what
has occurred.

Hac and Tibbie parted on the Bridge.

THE PENNY GAFF

Hac felt exceedingly triumphant after he had got
married. It was a secret, and would remain so
from his father for years, it might be. In the
meantime, Sir Thomas would oho on treating him asa
boy, whereas he was a man — a man of the world,
who might become an experienced, aged parent,
perhaps, in the course of time. Well, his father, he
reflected, had no business treating him with the
contempt he had poured upon him. He had liberated
him, his son, from all feeling of personal responsibility

towards him. Not that he would not
cultivate such feelings of affection as a son ou^^ht
to entertain towards a father. He could do that ;
but he could not forgive him his nasty language,
and this decisive exercise of private judgment
consoled him. It was a great deal more to him
than passing high would have been at a degree
examination. He carried himself with the air
of a very superior person, indeed, as he sauntered
across the Brido-e after bidding his wife goodbye.
His wife ! What a sound it had ! To be
alle to say to himself, ' My wife ! ' He paused, and
allowed himself to be elbowed to right and left by
people busier, or pretending to be busier, than himself,
who passed backwards and forwards, ^^hiie
he repeated the words, ' My wife 1 my wife.'

When he went back to Queen Street, Mrs
Ramsay came into his room, shut the door behind
her and said,

Mr Spens, sir, when will you bring the lady
home ? '

Very soon now, Mrs Ramsay ; but there is a
little diplomacy required. It may be a day or
two, even a week or two; bit, of course, I can't
always go on away from my wife. I am married,
you understand. Look at that.'

Deary, deary, Mr Spens ! and had you not a
minister of the gospel to make the ceremony
sacred ? '

'No.'

That was a pity. I could, for the price of a
new hat, get a clergyman to come up and marry
you according to the gospel.'

He couldn't marry me any better than the
Sheriff, could he ? Look at that slip of paper.'

Deary, deary ! ' said the landlady, going out ina
state of deep mental anxiety about the girl
who was to come and share her lucrative lodger's
rooms.

She was not altogether displeased. She foresaw
a source of livelihood in it. Lie could bully this
young wife, if it were necessary. She could always
hold up before her the prospect of telling Mr Spens'
father — that is, should the young wife have a
critical eye upon the week's accounts. Being 'a
lady,' she was not likely to be very critical. In
any case, however, Mrs Ramsay was prepared for
her, and knew how to act.

In the afternoon Sandy looked up. He was surprised
to observe that Hac received hin with a
slight air of embarrassment. It passed off quickly
enough, and Hac offered him a cigar, which he
would not take.

It creates a want,' said Sandy, ' and I can't afford

it;

Of course ; so does anything you take that you
like create a want. I don't see how that can be
called an objection to it.'

It's an objection to me, Spens, who haven't the
same amount of money as you.'

You are too careful, Sandy.'

A person cannot be too careful. Economy, says
Dominie Dunn, is the parent of all the virtues — of
equity to one's neighbours, of independence, of
cleanhandedness.'

Oh ! he has been quoting his copy-books to you.'

Well, maybe he has ; but if there's sagacity ina
copy-book heading, I'm quite open to receive and
digest it. Some wise man must have been at the
back of it originally. But do you know, Spens,
what I want you to do ? '

'No.'

This is a free night for both of us — no work todo
— and I've never been at a place of amusement
in my life. My father doesn't approve of it ; but
I'm taking my own line, and I have free orders to a
ofaff' down the Canon-ate.'

Free orders to a gaff' — worth twopence, I
suppose.'

I got them from a man who calls Himself " The
Great Snake." He's a queer character, and he promises
to see that we are well seated, if we come.'

Is he an actor in reduced circumstances ? '

He's a genius with a broken neck and joints,
and can do anything with himself he likes, except
break himself into little bits and come too-ether

o

again. There's no harm in the fellow either. He
has taught me to dance, and I'm rather grateful to
him. He'll be as proud as Punch if we go down
and see him. There's somebody at the door.'

Come in. Hilloo ! Tree, my dear fellow, you are
very polite. Think of you knocking at the door ! '

Well, my young cock, how are you getting on ?
Who's this chap ? I have not seen him before.
He's an intelligent-looking chappie.'

This is Baxter — Sandy Baxter, Tree, the ablest

man at the University. You have surely heard of
him ? '

No, oddly enough, I have not. We don't hear
much of your great men under twenty years of
age, somehow. Yes, decidedly, I'll take one of
your cigars. I see you can smoke at last ; it's an
accomplishment that it takes some little time to
learn. To learn it properly, you should begin at
ten years of age and prig your father's tobacco, if
you can get it. Do it when he is not looking, and
blame your little brother, if you have one. These
are the general principles of action I would lay
down to a risings generation which wanted to
become really accomplished puffers. But you are
past that time. You puff artistically. Now, what
are you boys up to ? I want some amusement,
Spens, my boy — something of a harmless but inspiriting
nature, which Avill not take away the
power of work tomorrow morning. You know
the town — the illimitable deeps of Edinburgh

Conduct me thither. Let me wander among:
them. Let me feel that I am invited, and that
I am enjoying it.'

Tree, yon are just in time.'

So ? '

'Yes.'

How's that ? What have you discovered ? A
new pleasure ? '

Yes.'

What ? '

A penny gaff, with free orders into it. Wl' can
all go in without paying at the door, and have the
best seats in the house reserved for us. If that
isn't a new pleasure, I don't know what you want
or expect.'

I don't Avant anything better. I thought at one
time that painting Sir Thomas Spens in a rage
would have been a new pleasure. Just to put him
into a bit of canvas when he's raising his left arm
and his throat gurgling into a truculent " Eh ! eh ! ''

I thought that would be a new pleasure to the
public, if I had him hung, to show how some men,
when they make a little money, think it justifiable
to abandon their manners — particularly if they
think they are talking to a poor man. I'm
sorry to say that about your father, Spens, but his
Eh ! eh ! " is an insult upon civilisation. If he
had used that expression to me twice, he would
have found his ancient nose inside my thumb and
forefinger, and right well squeezed it would have
been, notwithstanding his good luck and his fortune
and his high old position — right well squeezed,
Hac Spens. You should tell him about it — represent
to him that it is an offence to men as wellborn
as he is, if they haven't got his purse. I, Eli
Tree, look back upon his " Eh ! eh ! " with contempt,
and if I didn't think his son a jolly good fellow, I'd
proceed to Binkie this very night and pull his
venerable snout.'

I say, Tree, you know you're too hard on the
old man. He doesn't mean anything particular.'

Why does he do it, then ? '

Why does he snore at night ? '

Because he can't help it, I suppose.'

Very well, his " Eh ? eh ? " is exactly the same
sort of thing. It doesn't mean anything.'

It means, my young cock, a devouring egotism,
a honos abandonment of consideration for others, and
a long concentration of consideration upon a sense
of his own importance in the world — that's what
it means.'

Not a bit of it. Tree. It means that he has
been always meeting blockheads who misunderstood
him, and the manner he uses to blockheads,
habitually, has stuck to him when he is addressing,
a very different sort of fellow — namely, Eli Tree.
I've heard him say " Eh ? eh ? " to Lord Farmline
one of the touches of noblemen. He always says
it to me. I've heard him say it to his microscope



at one o'clock in the morning, when he was looking
at bits of the eye. " Eh, eh," he would say, and he
would seem to wait and listen for an answer, and
none would come. Then he would sigh and shut
up his apparatus with a click. He's an aggravating
man, my father ; but don't you take it so
seriously, Tree. You opened a window one night,
within my experience, and pitched a powerful of
water upon the heads of two elderly gentlemen.
That was worse than " Eh ? eh ? " People who live
in glass houses shouldn't, as Dominie Dunn would
say, throw stones — should they, Sandy ? '

No, I don't think they should.'

'Well, what about the gaff? Are you willing
to have a new pleasure, Tree ? '

I am.'

There isn't an order for you, I'm afraid.'

I have a pocketful of them,' said Sandy. ' I
lent him a two-shilling piece, fool that I was, and
he has given me these.'

Better give them to me. I'll distribute them in
the convalescent wards. They'll know how to use
them.'

Who is the performer ? ' asked Tree.

The Great Snake .'

Have you ever seen him, Spens ? '

'No.'

Very well, hats and coats on, and otf to the
penny gaff.'

The gaff was situated in a vacant space off the
Canongate, where an enthusiastic Lord Provost
had cleared away some historical houses which
had become noisome through overcrowding. A
century ago the space had rung to the jovial
sounds of high people ; to-night, however, they
were very merry. On a platform, lit up by
paraffin lamps, a girl in tights beat a drum,
while a skeleton danced a lively dance of death.
The head of a good-looking' woman was visible
at a little window taking coppers, her attention

being divided between that and a plate of steak,
which she devoured with an enjoyment appreciated
by a rude crowd outside, who had not dined quite
so well.

That's the Snake said Sandy, as Tree, Hac
and he elbowed their way through the crowd, and
stood, under the beating of the drum, in the light of
the lamps.

Dum ! dum ! dum ! dum ! went the drumsticks, as
Sandy's friend made one or two of his less important
movements to attract the crowd.

I have seen that man before,' said Hac.

That's what I said the first time I saw him,' remarked
Sandy.

Come along with your orders,' roared Tree,
making i-oom for himself with his elbow in a highly
rude and aggressive manner. ' I never had an order
at a gaff before. I hope it's a box seat.'

He led the way up the rickety wooden steps

VOL. II P

where the skeleton was performing, and, standing
on the platform, waited for Hac and Sandy.

Sandy however had mislaid the orders. He
couldn't find them. He searched his pockets, anal
drew out nothing but a handkerchief. The Snake
approached the edge of the platform, while the
dum ! dum ! dum ! dum ! went on, and, opening his
mouth, he leant over and gaped.

The crowd laughed. Tree posed as if he were a
hired assassin.

'Bloodless Bone,' he shouted, drawing an imaginary'
dagger from beneath a Highland tippet
' Bloodless Bone, you will oblige me by passing
us free to box seats — these gentlemen and myself.'

Hac at that moment came up with a handful of
coppers in lieu of orders. Sandy followed slowly,
still feeling his pockets. The Snake took the
coppers, advanced to the light of a lamp, tossed
them in the air, seemed to swallow, digest, and
evacuate them in three rapid movements.

By my halidom, I ^Yill fillip thee on the nose, '
said Tree, ' with my small pinked, if thou dost not
pass us without the adventitious aid of coppers.'

The Skeleton walked along the platform, performing
everything he could do in succession, and,
standing before Tree, said,

Pass friend.'

From Hac, however, he took a penny, and
Sandy showing no ticket, he ignored his friendship ,
and looked cold till he had been paid the entr}'-
money to the show.

They went in, and saw a sawdust ring and an
intelligent pony going round smelling for biscuits
from the people at the edge.

A box seat ! ' shouted Tree. ' By my halidom,
a box seat, or beshrew me, I will bethink myself of
a r-r-r-r-e-e-e-venge ! '

A small boy in white tights and spangles took
them to a seat by themselves, and they sat down
waiting.

Dum ! duui 1 dum ! dum ! went the drumstick
outside. The people inspired by Tree's example,
crowded in. Benches tilled up, and presently a
corpse was brought in upon a stage-table.

APPREHENSION

The corpse had no sooner been laid on the table
than Hac burst out with an exclamation of
horror.

By jingo ! ' said Tree, ' this is acting — real acting
! That fellow looks as dead as a door-nail.
But he has died too soon, hasn't he ? To judge
from the chap with the towel in his hand, he
shouldn't die till the chloroform is applied. Ita
tableau from the hospital — very well arranged,
too. But they might have got a better surgeon

than that seedy youth standing round, not knowing
what to do. That's the Great Snake on the
table. I must have that fellow up to my studio
and smoke a pipe with him. There are ideas in
him.'

Spens, you are looking awfully ill,' said Sandy,
looking at Hac, who had covered his face with
his hand.

I am ill,' murmured Hac. ' Everybody knows
it. They are putting me on the stage. I am infamous.
I am a known murderer. Tree, let me
out ; I must leave this den.'

Sit down, will you, Spens ? you haven't seen the
end of the scene. You don't know what it's coming
to. What are you jabbering about ? '

He pushed Spens into his place with his elbow,
and the scene proceeded. The corpse on the opere
had a towel applied to its head ; but
instead of becoming more inanimate, it gradually
rose and commenced a rotatory motion with its

right leg ; it performed half-a-dozen movements
like a wheel in circuit, upon the table ; it broke its
back and leapt high into the air, landing among
the sawdust, arms akimbo.

I say though,' murmured Sandy. ' I seem to
recollect now where I saw the Snake first of all.
This parody on an operation is a refresher. I
believe I'm not wrong in recollecting that the
Snake was that very man on the operating-table
which poor Spens thinks he killed. Spens,' he
added, in a whisper, ' sit it out with your friend,
and I'll be back in a few minutes.'

In a few minutes he returned with his friend,
Robert, the bobby, who was in plain clothes, but
who seemed to have something in his coat-pocket
of a massive description. They sat down quietly
behind Tree and Hac, and were in time to hear
the latter describe the persecution he had been
enduring for a year, owing to the incident in the
hospital.

God bless me, Spens ! why didn't you tell me
this before ? '

'I wanted to say as little about it as possible.
It seemed to me always better to pay than to
secure publicity and become infamous. But, you
see, I am infamous in any case.'

'And this Roger fellow, where does he hano- out?'

Up the Canongate a little.'

Very well, then ; as soon as the performance is
over. — The Snake's an artist, and can't be interrupted
at his work. — As soon as the performance
is finished we'll go and see Roger, and take the
Snake with us; and see if I don't make him
swallow a bottle of his own castor oil. Will that
satisfy you ? '

It won't clear the debt to the widow and
orphans.'

Widow and orphans, you simpleton : there are
no widow and orphans, if I make out your story
right.'

Mr Tree,' said Sandy, who had been listening,
bending towards him from behind, ' here's an old
friend. Do you recognise him ? '

Tree, who never forgot a face he once saw,
looked round.

Do I recognise him ? Yes. It's the bobby who
did me a service one night at Christie's. How
d'ye do, bobby ? I hope you're very well. D'ye
want to nab anybody ? '

Whisht ! ' said Sandy.

You do want to nab somebody ? '

I Avant him to nab the Snake.'

What ; nab the man who gave you free orders
to the gaff ? Not if I know it. Besides, if I make
this story out, the Snake isn't the culprit at all.
It's Roger, the man in the ally with the LL.D.,
who is to blame and who must be punished.'

Spens expostulated, and said he would rather
the thing remained out of sight. He would prefer

them to do nothing. He was content to remain
infamous.

The infamy doesn't matter that,' said Tree,
snapping his thumb violently ; ' lout the two pounds
a-week matter a good deal. Don't you say it
doesn't, Spens. It may get you into such a crop
of trouble as your best efforts, or the efforts of
your friends, won't be able to take you out of, and
the trouble keeps springing up, rank, luxuriant,
here, there, and everywhere, all over the field.'

They sat for a few minutes, till a new tableau
was brought to the sawdust. Then Tree said,

I think we may go behind the scenes now,
where the canvas is flapping. I saw the Snake
go in there. But, bobby, and intelligent-looking
chappie, don't you come yet. Wait till you're
called for.'

Tree disappeared at a corner where the wind
was flapping the canvas.

It was a sort of retiring-room. The Snake was

standing in it, with a hunk of cheese and a pot of
porter. He bowed when he saw Tree, and made
one of his outrageous movements with his leo He
did not know Hac from Adam, and only scrutinized
him to see if he were likely to be worth a treat.
Tree was a little stao-cvered at that. He thought

00 o

if he were the veritable man of the hospital tragedy,
he would probably have recognized Hac. However,
he assumed that he was the man.

Now, look here. Snake,' he said, ' you've played
this game too long. You've been going halves in
the plunder of Dr Roger.'

Which I hasn't,' said the Snake. ' Wishes I 'ad.
Half o' Dr Roger's plunder means a big haul.
He's making shillings like a mint — never stops
from morning' till night, he don't.'

You know what I mean. Snake.'

Which I don't, with your leave.'

Tree seized him by the throat, and he could not
wriggle out of his grasp, though he dropped this pot

and made extensive dislocations of arms, leers, and
back-bone.

It's no use,' said Tree. ' You know precious
well you are the man this 3'oung gentleman thought
he choked off* with chloroform in the inlirinarr
waiting-room about a year ago. D'ye hear me ? '

Oh, thai ! ' said the Snake. ' That's no source o'
income to me — barren' a little liquorice-stick and
tamarind water when I call upon m}' medical adviser.
Barren' that and a odd shilling', I get nothing'
for that job.'

You don't ? '

No, not I. And, now I recognise you, you are
the young person I let in for a practical joke. Yes,
I ain't going' to deny it now it's found out. But,
lor ! what is it to a maronite's son ? — a sidling" or
two a-week to a Ave cove like me. You wouldn't
miss it.'

You really are,' said Hac, raising the Happing

canvas — ' you are the man who was lying on that
table ? '

In course I are. I ain't a-going to deny it, now
I'm found out. I are.'

God bless you ! ' said Hac.

Thank ye,' said the Snake, looking at Tree.

He's glad you're alive, you ruffian.'

He has a forgiven' spirit.'

Yes ; happily for you, he has. But, Snake, you
will lead the way to the medical adviser's, and I'll
call two of my friends down from their box seat.'

Tree put his head inside and wagged two forefingers
at Sandy and the policeman. They walked
down and went out by a back way from the gaff,
Tree keeping pace with Snake, the rest following.
They were not long in arriving at the mouth of the
slum where the shop was. It was full of people at
the time — Roger, with his smoking-cap on, weighing
and scooping and tying and waxing in the deftest
manner. He was evidently dosing the whole

neighbourhood, with the most lucrative results.
The party waited outside till the shop emptied ;
then they went in.

'Doctor Thorburn,' said Tree, with an agitated
expression. But it was no use his attempting
to pass himself off as a patient. He was too
rubicund and healthy. Besides, Roger saw that
the party were hostile, from the expression in
the eye of the Snake. Nevertheless, he politely
invited them to come into his parlour, and they
went.

Now, sir,' said Tree, ' you see this young
gentleman ? '

I do.'

You see this disjointed animal who calls himself
the Great Snake ? '

I know the Great Snake personally. He is
a very good friend of mine. Take a chair. Snake.
After they are gone we can have some toasted
cheese.'

Some toasted cheese ! ' said Tree. ' Will you,
though ? '

I hope so. Now, gentlemen, what can I do for

you?'

Go down on your knees and beg this young-gentleman's
pardon.'

Hardly.'

'Down, you dog!' And Tree, seizing him,
forced him roughly on his haunches, from which
he jerked him forward on his knees.

Ask his pardon this minute, you pill-box, you —
you blue bottle of cold-drawn castor oil — you
ounce of assay cetida, you ! ' Roger struggled, but
Tree held him in position. ' Stand forward. Snake.
Is it true that you agreed to go to the waiting-room
table for a sixpenny wager, acting a death asa
" do " upon a green house-surgeon ? '

It is.'

Is it true that this decanter of nastiness kept
up the joke, and made a purse of it ? '

It is.'

Did he pay you in proportion to your share ? '

'No.'

• What (lid he give you ? '

First time shillings, then four, then three, then
two, then one, then a sixpence a-week. Last week
only liquorice-stick.'

And he wants to bribe you to-night with a bit
of toasted cheese ! Down dog ! Spens you said
something about a certificate of death. Where is
it, you bottle-stopper, you stick of sealing-wax, you
coi] of thin blue string ? '

I know the drawer,' said the Snake.

Fetch it out. Policeman in plain clothes, take
out your handcuffs.'

The handcuffs were brought out, and Roo-er's
struggles ceased at that point. The Snake found
the false certificate, and Sandy, looking at it, said,

The form is right enough, but the filling up is a
fraud. He might get ten years for this.'



What do you say to that ? — eh, to that, you
Gregory's mixture, you — you black draught, you
grovelling colocynthe, you fraudulent pills and
ointment ! You say nothing to it. But what do
you think of the year of torture you have given to
this hoy ? Speak will you ? '

Roger was in no humour to speak. Indeed Tree
held him down with so violent a hand that it was
difficult for him to compass language.

Hac began to be a little sorry for the man. He
interceded for him, and said ' that after all, he was
very pleased to find there had been no death.'

No, no, my young cock, that won't do. You
clear out and fetch a cab. You'll find one, most
likely, under the Tron Church.'

Hac went as he was directed.

Now he's gone, and before we take this dose off
to cooler quarters than he has here, he must swallow
one of his own boluses. Snake, fetch me a bottle
of cold-drawn castor oil. Mix a package of salts,

VOL. II O

HACO THE DREAMER

and set that electrical apparatus in order ; we want
them all. Hold his legs — hold him bobby. Now
keep his mouth open and pass the bottle.'

In a twinkling Tree had the battery working at
high-pressure, the castor oil descending in a deluge
at his throat, and the salts, warmed with water
from the hob, to top up with.

When Hac came in from the Tron, saying he
had brought a cab, he saw Roger on the floor, a
greasy and dishevelled wretch, whose moans were
pitiful to hear. But Tree was inexorable.

Now shove him into a blanket, carry him to
the cab, and at the bottom of my studio you will
find a coal cellar, warranted to contain five-and-forty
rats any night. He will remain there, handcuffed,
for further orders from the fustian.'

The doctor was carried out in the blanket and
driven to his dungeon, into which he was bundled,
without a single accompaniment, save a parting
kick from Tree.

THE END

It was not till the following day that Hac felt
the profound relief of not being a murderer by
accident. He was really rather sorry for the
sneak who had kept up the delusion on him so
long' though he did not follow him to the dungeon
where Tree temporarily confined him.

'I don't believe in law,' said Tree, after it was
all over. ' I think, where a fellow of that sort is
concerned, law is wasted on him. Hang me if
justice hasn't overtaken him in the only form he

can understand it. He shall have another Bottle
of castor oil tomorrow and a bit of dog-biscuit.
Then I'll kick him out. He's sure to blunder
into the hands of the hangman, sooner or later.
Thank goodness for that ! '

So ended an episode which had ruined Hac's
year. He now looked forward to a new period.
Again he thought of his wife, and with pleasure,
that he could now 1 ave all his allowance to himself.
She would be able to save it for him, and apply it,
and look after it. It really was very jolly, he
thought, to find what good luck his marriage had
already brought him — the good luck of an exposure
of a cad who had been worrying him to death,
and that without any very absurd publicity. He
intended now that medicine should become attractive
for him ; that it should be more his aim in life
than boating and desultory reading, and long walks
by moonlight and sails on the Firth. His little
wife would help him to take an earnest view of it,



he was assured. She would encourage him to o-et
first-class certificates. She would inspire him in a
thousand ways unknown to any other body, and
the end of it would be that, with an honourable
degree, his father would be very odd to extend a
cordial hand to her. To be sure, many vexatious
things might occur in the meantime ; how, for
example, to keep the marriage from Mr Baxter's
ears and avert his anger, but he trusted to Mrs
Baxter being on his side, as she always was,
especially when he was paying attentions to Tibbie.

He was standing in his room, with his coat off,
dusting his books, when he heard at his back the
familiar sound of ' Bonnie Mary Ha^^, it's a holiday
to me,' and, much to his surprise, he found himself,
presently, face to face with Professor Stewart.

Welcome, professor, to my rooms. I consider
this a very great honour. Indeed I do.'

You're welcome to it. I wish I was young
enough to feel anything an honour. At my time, a

sweet nap or a successful meal is more than any
honour. Ah, the illusions of boyhood ! If you
only knew it, man, it's better to be a boy like you
than an aged gentleman like me, at the top of the
tree — a hundred times better, and you should be
thankful for it. Dignity has its advantages ; but
what compensation is it for the loss of youth ?
Don't you pray to become a curmudgeon before
your time. Go out in the sunlight, fall in love,
write poems about it, play the fool, and when you
have come to my time of life, you'll look back on
it all and say, " Then I was wise." But that's not
what I meant to say ; that's not what I came hereabout.
It struck me forcibly the other day that
you're not the man for the Blue Pill Society. Yoa
belong to us — to us of the " Hellenic." Come over
there and hear us read a garbled chorus, and see
what you can do at it, and if you can't do anything,
look like ii Greek.'

I can try to do that, of course,' said Hac : and

that moment his door opened, and his father came
in, wearing an evil expression on his face.

He saw Hac, with this jacket off, speaking to
Professor Stewart. He had expected to find him
dandling his new wife. It slightly allayed his
wrath. Nor could he afford to be beside himself,
with the professor in the room.

Father ! ' said Hac, suddenly remembering, at
the sio'ht of him, that he was in his shirt-sleeves.

Sir Thomas gave a snort of contempt, declined
to shake hands with him, bowed to Professor
Stewart, and sat down.

Spens,' said the professor, ' I haven't seen you
since that archaeological rout at Farmline. You're
grumpier than ever. If I had a son like this, I
would shake hands with him when I met him.'

Would you ? '

Decidedly.'

That might depend upon circumstances.'

Do you mean that he's not worthy of having

hand shaken by venerable and innocent gentlemen
like you and me ? '

I have taught him to respect old age, Professor
Stewart.'

What bit of it did you ask him to bow down to
most — the crooked knees, or the gray hairs, or the
wheezy chest — eli ? '

To the experience that it brings.'

Ay, that's all very well and does it never bring
vanity and avarice, and godliness and politic arts ? '

D it, Stewart, peruse that, will you, and cease

your insinuations against wisdom and influence and
the capacity to guide youth to its proper destiny.'

Well, you've put him into the Blue Pill Society.
I don't call that guiding a young poet to his
destined. Eh ? What ? You don't say so ? What !
Married \ Save the young man ! Married ! Spens,
my young friend, dice est deaiperc, but this is too
much of a <>ood thine '

Hac shrank to the further end of the room and



looked out at the window. He could not conceive
how he had been discovered. At the moment he
felt greatly inclined to lift the window and vault
into the street.

I have come to the conclusion that he has no
cerebrum said Sir Thomas ; ' that he is an
irresponsible being ; that he has no '

Then you are quite wrong. You have entirely
misread your lad, and, I'm bound to say, in
making this revelation, I think you have misdirected
him in sending him here. My dear sir,
our old Scotch Universities are all very well for a
certain order of natures — natures that are hardy
and tough and prepared to fight the battle of life,
trampling on other men's toes, digging them in the
ribs, knocking them down, where that is needful ;
it is absolutely and totally unfit for Hac and such
as he. You understand my quarrel with Oxford,
Sir Thomas ? Very well, you will not misunderstand
me when I say that to Oxford that lad

VOL. II R

should have been sent. There he will come to
maturity with perfect safety ; here there are
unnumbered pitfalls.'

The fool is a married man.'

Yes,' said Hac, suddenly wheeling round and
confronting the old gentleman — 'yes, father, I
admit it. But I have not taken home my wife
yet. I parted with her on the Bridge, and have
not seen her since. Let me ask your forgiveness,
and then I shall introduce you to one of the
simplest, most frugal, most innocent girls in the
world, just such a one as will save my income forme
and help me towards my degree.'

Prettily pled, youngster,' said Professor Stewart.

Go on,' said Sir Thomas.

I will introduce you to Tibbie Baxter.'

To whom ? '

To the girl who was reaping in the field with
me one night, when you looked over.'

Sir Thomas had expected worse tidings. He expected

to hear that it was the lad's landlady's
elderly, ugly daughter, In his experience he had
known of a few being palmed off upon susceptible
students in their first year. He looked pitifully
at Professor Stewart, however, as he remarked :

He has married the daughter of my grieve.'

And how old do you say she is 1 '

Not yet nineteen.'

'Humph!'

Humph ! '

She is the best of girls ; she is the gentlest ;
she is not absolutely beautiful, but she is beautiful
enough '

Hold, sir' said Sir Thomas. 'Are you willing
to go to Oxford and study for a degree ? '

Certainly, father.'

Very good. To Oxford you shall go. And this
young female '

My wife, father.'

And this wife of yours shall keep my house for

the next month. She will then (]jo to a boarding
in Switzerland, and, if you have behaved
yourself in the interval, you may live with her in
your twenty-fourth year, with my consent. Attempt
it before you have an English degree, and
sou are no longer my son.'

It's a fair offer,' said Professor Stewart.

I accept it,' murmured Hac.

THE END

^^H

3 0112 042039989
