OF THE
U N IVLR.5ITY
OF ILLINOIS


S i 6 5 u
v. I

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-champaign

L161— O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/unitednovel01sinn

A ftobcl.

BY

A. P. Sinners,

AUTHOR OF

"KARMA," "ESOTERIC BUDDHISM," "THE OCCULT WORLD, :

ETC., ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

GEORGE E ED WAY,

YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

1886.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Chapter; PAGE

I. WAKENING TO THE WORLD - - - 1

II. THE FIRST MEETING - - 21

III. A One-sided ENGAGEMENT - - - 55

IV. UNPROMISING SYMPTOMS - - 78
V. " IT CANNOT BE " - - - 98

VI. ONE UNION ACCOMPLISHED - - - 125

VII. "I SUPPOSE SHE IS BEAUTIFUL " - - 155

VIII. THE RIGHT INFLUENCE - - - 179
IX. SOCIAL DUTIES IN THE WAY - - 220

X. IMPRESSIONS BEHIND THE SCENES - - 235

XI. AN INSTRUCTIVE TRANCE - - - 268

CHAPTER I.

WAKENING TO THE WORLD.

Perron Kinseyle had been sorely put out
when his wife died. He would not have
been rightly described as prostrate with grief;
still less so as being heartlessly indifferent.
But the principal interests of his life had
long been those which gathered round his
literary work ; and when Mrs. Kinseyle,
after ten or twelve years of a quiet existence
at Compton Wood, dropped into the grave
in a gentle, unobtrusive way, as if it was a
matter of course, her husband, roused from
his philological researches, realized for the
first time that she had been seriously ill.
He was very much distressed about it all,
though ready to acknowledge, when Boyle,
vol. i. 1

the housekeeper, put it in that way, that
Heaven was a better place, at all events for
the poor mistress, than Compton Wood.
But the recollection of his married life left
no painful places in his conscience. " The
poor mistress " had been poor by reason of no
sins of omission or commission on his part.
Bad health had been her worst trouble, and ina
little while after that had been finally cured
by the translation of the patient to the " better
place' just spoken of, the lonely scholar's
worst perplexity was developed by the question
— what ought to be done about Edith ?

Edith was his only daughter — his only
child — and at the period referred to had
attained the majestic age of six. Her
mother, till then, had looked after her in all
respects. There had been a nursemaid, of
course ; but the growth and furniture of
Miss Edith's mind had been her mother's
care altogether, except, indeed, so far as Miss
Edith had partly taken the matter into her
own hands — prosecuting independent studies
for herself in the library, removing volumes
as she wanted them in the early hours of the
morning to her own quarters, and leaving

Mr. Kinseyle puzzled sometimes to think what
could have become of some book of grave and
serious import that he might wish to consult.
Edith's reading was not governed by any
frivolous tastes at this stage of her existence,
though what the instinct was which prompted
her selection of books was a problem Mrs.
Kinseyle never attempted to grapple with.
The mere fact that the child could read at
all, k 'to amuse herself," so soon, was sufficiently
surprising, and not a little creditable to her
abilities as a teacher, the admiring mother
conceived. For the rest, Edith never consulted
anyone as to the course she thought
fit to pursue ; and Mrs. Kinseyle regarded
herself as existing rather to carry out
than to constrain her youthful daughter's
wishes. And this arrangement had worked
so smoothly that the necessity of taking
some entirely new departure was exceedingly
trying to the widow x er. He had
shrunk from the notion — never very seriously
debated with his wife — of having a governess
in the house even while Mrs. Kinseyle lived.
Compton Wood was not a house of dimensions
that would have permitted a life apart

1—2

for such an inmate, and the studious philologist
was far too shy to bear the prospect of
having a stranger always at his table — a
lady to whom he would have to be polite,
while feeling her presence, from the point of
view of his native reserve, an unutterable
nuisance. Now, however, the thing would
have to be done under conditions much
worse than those which had made it so
unattractive before ; or else Edith would
have to be sent right away somewhere — to
school, or to relations.

Ferron Kinseyle was not a man of large
means, or of large estate ; but he was a
country gentleman, in his way, of eminently
respectable lineage, and the old house,
Compton Wood — a better sort of farmhouse
originally — had been on the family property
for altogether incalculable periods. Most of
the land formerly attached to the name had
gone away, through the female line, to
another rich dynasty, and Ferron Kinseyle,
succeeding from an offshoot parentage, owned
merely a rag of the old Kinseyle estates.
The Miltenhams of Deerbury Park were the
lords of these now ; but they did not make

a residence of Kinseyle Court — two miles
across the fields and through its own park
from Compton Wood — by reason of having
a much more luxurious mansion of their own
twenty miles away in another direction.

Kinseyle Court was just kept clean by a
man and his wife at the lodge, and shown to
visitors who wanted to inspect some old
Roman remains preserved around the house.
The Miltenhams were too well off to care tolet
the place ; too respectful to its history,
running back to the civil war and further, to
neglect it altogether ; but too fond of modern
comfort to live in it.

The Miltenhams would have taken charge
of Edith when her mother died — they were
very good friends with the Kinseyles, though
their habits of life lay apart — and that
seemed the natural arrangement. It was
cordially suggested, and at first accepted by
the widower ; but it was disturbed by an unforeseen
embarrassment. Mr. Kinseyle had
not up to that time been in the habit of conversing
to any great extent with his small
daughter. He had no natural affinity for
children, and never found anything to say to

them. However, when he had in his own
mind gratefully accepted Mrs. Cheltenham's
invitation concerning Edith, he took that
young lady on his knee while wandering
through the drawing-room and out into the
garden one day, soon after the miserable
business of the funeral — his usual regular
habits of work being thrown out still — and
officially informed her of the plans proposed.
Then Miss Edith introduced the unforeseen
embarrassment referred to.

"But, Papa," she said, " I don't want to go."
Mr. Kinseyle had not looked at the matter
from that point of view before. He was too
courteous a person to tell the young lady
abruptly that nobody talked about her
"going" — that the proposal was for her to
be sent. Regardless of the risks attending
the process when a lady of any age is concerned,
he endeavoured to argue the matter.

My dear Edy, it will be very much the
nicest plan for you. There is a little girl
about your age at Deerbury Park, and a little
boy a year or two younger " — Edy shook her
head slightly, but scornfully — "and — and
you'll be ever so happy."

"Thank you, Papa, dear; but I would rather
stop with you at Compton Wood."

But, my clear Edy, we should have to
have a governess, and that would be a terrible
bore for both of us, you know." He did
not like to be selfish, so he put the idea that
way.

We'll teach her to behave nicely, Papa,"
Miss Edith said confidently, and without the
least sense of incongruity in thus inverting
the natural order of things. And then, as
Mr. Kinseyle still held out and pleaded for
the Miltenham scheme, Edy brought up all
her reserves with the unconscious genius of
her sex.

Oh, Papa I" she cried, more in sorrow than
in anger, " you don't mean that you will send
me away from you against my will /" and with
that she melted into tears.

My dear Edy, my pet, there, don't cry.
It really never occurred to me," Mr. Kinseyle
frankly confessed, " that you had a will in the
matter. It is most curious, the unexpected
way family matters may get complicated."

Of course the governess was obtained, and
Mr. Kinseyle had to take all the responsibility,

in Mrs. Miltenham's eyes, of selfishly
choosing an inferior destiny for his daughter,
because his own tenderness as a father would
not allow him to part with his pet plaything.
He had to face a great deal of acute discomfort
when Miss Barkley, the governess
Mrs. Miltenham scornfully procured for him,
first came on the scene. He did not see,
thinking over the matter in advance, how a
middle course could be steered between
treating the new-comer, on the one hand,
as an upper servant — from which attitude
he shrank, being very little given to self-assertion
— and, on the other, in a way which
might entitle her to think he wanted to marry
her, which he did not wish to do in the least.
But the reality of the situation soon showed
itself as less alarming than the prospect.
Miss Barkley was a tall, thin spinster, with
very prominent teeth, a mild disposition, and
a long experience of life. Mr. Kinseyle was
relieved. He felt sure that Miss Barkley
could not conscientiously expect to be married,
and he began to feel more at ease. Perhaps
Miss Edith, with her usual influence on all
around her, succeeded in teaching her governess

how to behave nicely, as she had
promised. By degrees, life at Compton
Wood resumed something of its old routine.
The scholar subsided into his work, and Miss
Barkley, impelled by conscience once or twice
to inquire whether he wished Edith to do
this or that, or leave something else undone,
perceived so clearly that he did not wish at
all events to be made the arbiter in such
transactions, that she chose, practically, the
wiser part in her relation with her interesting
pupil, and followed that young lady's guidance
in all problems of difficulty.

Edith, as the years advanced, consented
graciously to pay some visits to Deerbury
Park, but she never merged herself
altogether in the life of that more brilliant
establishment, and grew up in her own quiet
home, accepting occasional distractions with
cheerful satisfaction when her father, at rare
intervals, found reason to spend a month or
two in London, but never showing the least
impatience of the uneventful and even
current of existence at Compton Wood.
As time went on, she promoted her father
more and more into the rank of companion,

drew him out on philosophical questions, and
took a friendly interest in his study of comparative
Oriental philology, without being
impelled herself, however, to follow up these
inquiries in detail. As she was troubled by
no rude mockery from brothers or sisters, the
eccentric development of her mind suffered
no offensive shocks, and Mr. Kinseyle's
temperament, leading him to accept all the
incidents of life as they came, without
criticizing them closely unless he was reluctantly
compelled to choose some course of
action for himself, made him not indifferent
to his daughter by any means, but unobservant
of her peculiarities as such. Edith
was subject in this way to no analytical
watchfulness; and though Miss Barkley found
strange traits in her character to wonder at
sometimes, these were merely oddities, in
that good lady's estimation, referable to her
old-fashioned bringing up. By the time she
was turned fifteen, a natural sense of the fitness
of things had taught her to adapt her
conversation with Miss Barkley to the governess's
understanding, and in this course shew
T as not conscious of any irksome self-restraint,

having a plentiful fund of good spirits and
gaiety to spend upon the minor affairs of the
hour.

One of the most serious difficulties that
arose between Miss Barkley and her young
charge — or young mistress as she might
perhaps have been better described — had to do
with an exasperating propensity Miss Edith
developed when she was barely out of her
childhood, of sitting late in the evening on
a big stone near the entrance-gate of Compton
Wood, " looking out for the ghost." The
house, itself as old as the more stately Court
in the neighbourhood, was approached by
a long drive with a few trees about — nota
regular' avenue — with a gate at the end
opening into the high-road. Just within the
gate were some of the Roman remains
scattered about that part of the country in
great profusion, and an old labourer belonging
to the nearest village, Wexley, declared
that when he was a young man he had been
frightened nearly out of his wits one night,
when going home late from working at
Compton Wood, by seeing a white knight on
horseback ride in at the gate. He met the

figure, he declared, as he was walking in the
road himself, and was just close to the gate.
He had stepped aside in among the old Roman
stones, and the knight had passed him without
making any sound as the horse trod ;
and then the vision had faded away in the
direction of the house, before it had got far
enough on to have passed out of sight if it
had been a veritable man on horseback.
The labourer did not tell his story in this
connected way, but this was what Edith,
who took a great interest in the matter, had
made out by prolonged cross-questioning.
Investigation of this affair had employed
her for many months, as Miss Barkley put
every possible impediment in her way, and
bitterly reviled an unlucky housemaid from
whom she had picked up her original clue. It
was a matter of principle with Miss Barkley all
the while to repudiate the whole story with
the utmost contempt ; and it was only on
the ground that Miss Edith's head ought
not to be stuffed with nonsense that the
housemaid was assailed. Edith, on her part,
contended that nonsense might be great fun,
and that it would be delightful to hunt out

the old labourer and see what he would say.
Bit by bit, in successive walks with Miss
Barkley on summer afternoons, Edith elicited
all that Hodge could tell, though she failed
entirely to get any corroboration of the
tale from any other observer. Then Miss
Barkley had been hoping the uncomfortable
subject might be allowed to drop, when late
in the dusk of one shortening evening in
September, Edith, having been missed and
having been seen strolling down the drive,
was ultimately discovered by the horrified
Miss Barkley sitting alone on the biggest of
the Roman stones at the gate, " looking out
for the ghost."

The vehement though disjointed protests
that Miss Barkley raised on this occasion
culminated in a reference to Mr. Kinseyle.
She had only been able to get Edith away
from the gate — where her own nerves were
too much upset to argue coherently — by
abject entreaties. In the lighted drawing-room
the complicated issues involved were
debated more at length. Miss Barkley adhered
to the position that Edith's attempt
was absurd, because ghosts did not exist,

but that she ran the risk of losing her senses
with fright if she should see anything. It
was clearly wicked to tempt Providence, and
it was perilous, anyhow, in September, to sit
out at night on damp stones, especially when
she knew that her chest was delicate, and
that her poor dear mother had died of consumption.


And why you're not frightened to death
at the mere thought of such a thing — a childlike
you — I can't understand."

But dear Miss Barkley, what is there to
be frightened of if there is not any white
knight in the case at all ? And that you
say is impossible."

If you think there's a white knight in the
case," said Miss Barkley, stumbling in desperation
on an argument with a certain force,
that's just as bad."

I don't know that I think there is," Edith
replied. " I want to find out."

The governess sought in vain to extort
a promise from Edith that the rash attempt
would not be repeated. Edith persisted in
surrounding the whole question with an air
of the brightest merriment. She generously

offered to let Miss Barkley watch for the
ghost with her. She proposed that they
should harden themselves for the encounter
with the white knight by talking about
ghosts a good deal in the dark, in their bedroom,
and only desisted when Miss Barkley's
strained imagination seemed to threaten
hysterics.

The reference to Mr. Kinseyle was not
made till twice or thrice again the fair Edith
had visited her post of observation in the
evening. Miss Barkley could neither reconcile
it to her conscience to let this go on, nor
venture to hang about the haunted gateway
night after night in attendance on her pupil.
She knew Mr. Kinseyle would be upset for
days if called upon to consider a charge
against Edith, and in any way give judgment
in the cause ; but the situation w T as desperate.
She was miserably apologetic, but what was
to be done about this new and unprecedented
freak on Edith's part \ " She has slipped out
again this evening, and she's alone at that
dreadful place at this moment, I'm sure.
I'm going after her now, at once, of course ;
but I felt bound this time to tell you about it."

Mr. Kinseyle, perplexed and vaguely irritated
against poor Miss Barkley, begged her
to remain behind, and went in search of
Edith himself. He found her on the big
stone, and she got up at once and joined
him.

Where's the harm, Papa dear?" she urged,
putting her arm through his to walk back
down the drive. " I'm wrapped up, as you
see, and as warm as a toast. Miss Barkley's
so funny about my knight. She's quite
frightened."

But, my pet, young ladies must be taken
care of at all times, and especially after dark.
If there are no ghosts to be frightened of
really — and, as for that, it seems to me very
creditable on your part not to be frightened
there are rough men about the world
sometimes — robbers, gipsies, and so on."

But, Papa !" said Edith, putting quite a
chain of reasoning into the long emphasis on
the word, "I stop inside our own gate, and
who has ever been robbed about Wexley ?"

Then you see, Edy, imagination is apt to
play people tricks when they are expecting
to see something supernatural, and — one can't

tell — though you're so brave about it to begin
with — you might be frightened if you thought
you saw something."

I don't think I should be frightened,
because I don't see what harm a ghost would
want to do me — if there are ghosts at all.
What do you think now, really, about that,
Papa f

Mr. Kinseyle fenced the question. He
was too sincere a person to palm off statements
on a child without feeling sure of his
own convictions.

I've not gone into the matter much, Edy.
I should lean to the belief that there are not,
but if there should be such manifestations
in rare cases, I should say we were wisest
to let alone what we understand so little
about."

It's very interesting," replied Edith, not
entirely convinced by this reasoning.

Miss Barkley met them now in front of
the house in a state of nervous agitation.
Edith gave her a consolatory kiss, and
relieved her, as it were, of all further responsibility
in the matter by promising to talk it
over with Papa.

vol. i. 2

You won't be so cool and composed about
it, Edith," Miss Barkley said later on, when
they were alone together, " if some evening
you do conjure up a dreadful apparition by
all this watching."

Not if it's dreadful, certainly ; but I've
confidence in my white knight. I have not
seen him plainly yet, but "

"What?" cried Miss Barkley, in amazement
at the significance of the word thus
emphasised.

But I saw something this evening ; something
shadowy and vague, you know, but in
the shape that would do for a man on horseback.
Soon after that, Papa came up, and I
had a feeling that it would be no use to
wait any longer this evening, so I came
away."

Well, Edith, your nerves are something
I don't understand. You've destroyed my
night's rest by merely telling me — what you've
just said."

Dear B., your nerves are in fault though,
this time, not mine, surely !"

Edith was contracting a habit about this
time of calling her governess " B." as a

friendly abbreviation of her full name,
which, used without the prefix, that grew
troublesome in constant repetition, would
have put her on too humble a level.

The young lady's visits to the Miltenhams>
both at Deerbury Park and in London, gave
her, as time went on, the savoir vivre befitting
her natural station, without quenching
her taste for the quiet life of her own home,
where she fed her mind by enterprising
excursions through realms of literature where
B. found herself hopelessly unable to follow,
and where her beauty expanded without
involving her in the excitement it might
have set in motion round her had she approached
seventeen in the midst of an ebb
and flow of society. She was slight but
very gracefully developed in figure, petite
rather than otherwise as to height, but with
a very upright carriage and a self-confident
composure of manner that gave an almost
comic touch of stateliness to her small proportions,
and her fair though richly tinted
complexion, sweetly delicate features, large
blue eyes, and golden hair, invested her with
undeniable claims to admiration.

2—2

Her love of the quiet seclusion of Compton
Wood was born of no shrinking timidity of
nature, still less of any morose dislike of her
fellow creatures. The sunny brightness of
her own temperament gilded the old house
with all the gaiety she required. Inheriting,
though transmuting to a brighter phase,
some of her father's attributes, she took
things as they came, and never stopped to
weigh and consider circumstances round her
in a discontented or critical mood. Compton
Wood was her home, so at Compton Wood
she habitually abided ; always treating her
visits to the Miltenhams as such — to be
enjoyed, certainly, while they lasted, but to
terminate in due season, as a matter of
course.

THE FIRST MEETING.

The library at Kinseyle Court wooed her
away, two or three years later, from the
old Roman stones at the gate, where she
had first developed her inclination for ghostly
watching. Miss Barkley was hardly the gainer
by the change, however, for the half deserted
old house was not a " canny" habitation after
dusk for people nervous about such fancies,
and it was sometimes difficult to draw Edith
away, as evening approached, if she was
seized with an inclination to sit on in the old
library, or in the " Countess's Study" attached;
a room reached up two or three steps from
the larger chamber, and bearing that traditional
name by virtue, as Edith discovered
for herself in the course of her reading, of
certain incidents connected with the past
history of the family.

The Countess in question had been a
daughter of the Kinseyle house, who returned
home on her husbands death, during the
troubles of the civil war. The luckless lady
had resided for a long time almost alone at
Kinseyle Court, the representative of the
family at the time being a younger brother,
away on his travels. Then, when he came
home in due season with a wife, the Countess
removed to a neighbouring house of her own
not very plainly identified in the old family
memoirs from which Edith gleaned these
particulars, but suspected by her to be
Compton Wood — keeping only one room at
Kinseyle Court, the aforesaid " study."

These comparatively trifling incidents had
been recorded by a scholarly Kinseyle, of a
literary turn, belonging to the following
generation, because of the strange reports
concerning the " Countess's Study," which he
found current in his time, and set down
with grave simplicity. The lady was alleged
to have practised some variety of the " black
art," and strange voices had been heard by
servants from the grounds outside her windows
when she was known to be alone

inside. After her death, her wraith had
been seen at these same windows in the
moonlight ; and though the room was shut
up and put to no ordinary uses by her immediate
successors at the Court, it w r ould sometimes
be seen from afar lighted up with a
steady white light, that suggested no alarm
of fire, but even more acute, if more fantastic,
terrors connected with the supernatural.

Since those days the room had been turned
to ordinary uses by later generations of
Kinseyles ; but still it retained the old
name, and remained furnished as a study or
writing-room, though refitted and modernized,
of course, more than once since the
remote epoch in which it had served the
needs of the mysterious Countess.

It pleased Edith to sit there in an old
green Utrecht velvet arm-chair that stood by
the table, or in one of the deep window-seats
that looked out upon the park, and dream of
the bygone time, or take some books up therefrom
the library below, gathered at random
from the shelves, and dive into them in the
spirit of an explorer travelling through an
unknown country. Perhaps these desultory

studies left no particular fruits of culture in
her mind, but they interested her for the
time ; and Miss Barkley had learned long
before the period at which Edith took to frequenting
Kinseyle Court that her duties did
not include the exercise of any censorship over
the young lady's literary taste. Miss Barkley 's
anxiety in the matter had to do, not so much
with the direction this took, as with the unseemly
hours at which Edith persisted in
gratifying it.

Dinner was an early ceremony at Compton
Wood, for Mr. Kinseyle liked an evening
that was something more than the rased end

O DO

of dessert, and, regardless of convention, took
his principal meal at five o'clock. This left
the ladies with so much daylight on their
hands afterwards in the summer and autumn,
that Edith was enabled to march her reluctant
chaperone across the fields, sometimes in the
eveningforaneerievisittotheCountess'sStudy
in the dusk. Miss Barkley would put impediments
in the way as far as she could, preferring
a simpler and more domestic routine; but Edith
met all difficulties with her usual promptitude
and determination. Squires could see them

home if they were tempted to stay too late.
Squires, with his wife, constituted the 
of Kinseyle Court, and resided
at the lodge. Both by reason of orders
from his regular superiors at Deerbury Park,
and by virtue of his ready inclination to serve
the young lady's caprices, he regarded her in
all respects as having authority at the Court,
and loyally put aside Miss Barkley's suggestion
when the; practice first arose — that it
was a tax on his time to perform, escort duty
in the evening.

I was quite sure Squires would be glad to
be of use to me' Edith said graciously, with
the air of .a young queen conferring a favour
in accepting her subject's homage ; and the
veteran retainer besought her " never to be
within sending for Squires," whatsoever it
might be that was wanted.

Of course Edith joyously recounted to Miss
Barkley all the tales she could find in the old
family memoir above mentioned which bore
reference to spectral phenomena associated
with the Countess's Stud 7 .

Miss Barkley scoffed — and shivered a little
in secret at times — but would not give in to

Edith's whim so far as to recognise the
danger of seeing the ghost as an objection
attending evening visits to the Court. Indeed,
there had been no pretence of any ghost in
the case for several hundred years. It was
too absurd of Edith to be making believe to
expect one in this case.

Then you do feel that in the other case
Hodge's story about the White Knight is
important ?" Miss Edith maliciously urged in
reply.

But " B." would only stand to her guns
during the day time in safe places. In serious
emergencies after sunset, she would fall back
upon honest confessions of feeling fidgety
and plaintive entreaties to be taken home.
Then Edith would compromise matters, and
promise to join her at the lodge in half an
hour if left at peace and undisturbed in her
dear old library or in the study, as the case
might be, for the pleasant interval between
the lights.

It is quite unaccountable how Miss Edith
can dare to stop alone in those old rooms,
when it's getting dark like this," Miss Barkley
exclaimed, in conversation with Mrs. Squires

at the lodge one evening under circumstances
of this kind. " It isn't as if she was a masculine
sort of girl. She isn't the least of a
tomboy, but she actually likes to be alone in
places that would make anybody else nervous
with all sorts of foolish fancies."

Bless your soul, i'm, it's all right," put in
Mr. Squires from the little garden outside.
Long familiarity with the Court, and its clean
bill of health in regard to such matters as
those Miss Barkley hinted at, made the
custodian of the place disinclined to admit
that anyone could incur peril there. " There
ain't aught to be a-feared of at Kinseyle
Court, night time or day."

Of course I didn't say there was really,"
replied Miss Barkley, with a little asperity ;
only for a girl like Miss Edith, one might
expect that she would have been timid. And
it is getting so late this evening. It's past
the time she said she would join me here."

Miss Barkley stepped out into the road and
looked up the avenue, but it was already
impossible to see far through the thick shade
of the trees, and a slight turn in the road
concealed the house itself from view from the

lodge, though the actual distance was inconsiderable.
No comforting vision of the
creamy white dress in which Edith's graceful
figure was robed that day was to be discerned,
and Miss Barkley had to go back and
bring her patience to bear upon the trying
situation. Mrs. Squires's gossip was not
altogether to be despised by a resident at so
quiet a house as Compton Wood, as she commanded
news through Thracebridge, whence
she drew her supplies, relating to a tract of
country which lay beyond the jurisdiction of
Wexley,the village with which MissBarkley's
household was in relations. Still, to be five-ands
twenty minutes late in keeping an appointment
which is only entitled to deal with a
total period of half an hour, is to push un-punctuality
too far. When Miss Barkley
realized that she had been kept waiting
so long, she was half indignant and half
alarmed.

What can be keeping her so long ? It's
actually getting dark ! Would Mr. Squires
mind going up to the house and asking her if
she isn't coming: V

1*11 go and wait for her, i'm, if you

like, at the door ; but I wouldn't like to go in
for to disturb her if she sees fit for to stop,"
said Squires, after some consideration of the
problem. " If you come along, too, i'm,
you can go in and see if she's ready."

Miss Barkley hated poking about the old
house after dark ; and the situation was not
made any better that evening by the fact that
a full moon was rising.

Miss Edith asked me to wait for her at
the lodge," she answered, suddenly reverting
to the theory that Miss Edith's will had to
be obeyed to the letter.

Squires could not have analysed the fallacy
involved in her position, as coupled with her
wish to disturb the young lady vicariously,
but was setting out up the drive, when the
sudden barking of a black and tan retainer of
the lodge household drew attention to two
gentlemen who had come along the public road
and were now pausing at the gate. Squires
turned back and went to interview them.

This is Kinseyle Court, isn't it ?" said the
taller of the two, leaning on the low iron gate
that swung across the entrance to the drive,
and holding out half-a-crown to Squires as he

approached. The gardener accepted the peace-offering
with easy grace, and answered with
the friendly cheerfulness that seemed due
to an acquaintance so pleasantly begun. He
opened the smaller side-gate as he spoke,
and the visitors came in.

There's no family living here, I understand
r

No — 0, sir, not for many a long day."

Ah ! We had a fancy to look at the
place, which visitors are permitted to see, I
believe V

Yes, sir ; certainly."

But I'm afraid it's too late this evening.
We did not quite know how long it would
take us to walk out here from Thrace-bridge."


The visitors seemed undecided, none the
less, and strolled in a few steps beside Mr.
Squires.

Well, it is a bit late, sir, to see anything
to-night, sir. Any time in the day you
might be passing "

'M — yes. By-the-bye, it might be a good
thing perhaps to rest a little before we return.
Now, if you can give us chairs here in your

garden for ten minutes, that would be very
obliging of you."

The speaker hardly looked like a person
who would be prostrate with fatigue as
the result of a walk from Thracebridge. He
was a } T young man of eight-and-twenty or
thirty, well made, with a vigorous athletic
physique, a short-cut, brown beard, and
moustache — clearly a gentleman by all external
sims of dress and manner ; and a
finer observer than Mr. Squires might have
been struck by the fact that his demand for
the means of resting was not given out in the
manner of a wearied wayfarer, but as if by a
sudden happy inspiration. At any rate, the
loan of a couple of chairs for ten minutes
was well within the credit established by the
half-crown, so Squires agreed cordially, and
the strangers followed him into the little
front-garden of the lodge. Then for the
first time perceiving Mrs. Squires and Miss
Barkley, who stood just outside the threshold,
they lifted their hats to Miss Barkley, and
looked a little discomfited.

M I beg your pardon. I hope we are not in
your way. We were going to rest for a little

after a short walk — at least, after what I
ought to call a long walk, if I feel tired."

Miss Barkley bowed, muttering a few
words of vague courtesy ; and Mr. Squires
bade his wife get the gentlemen chairs. The
shorter and slighter of the two — perhaps not
the younger, though wearing no hair about his
face beyond a slight fringe of light brown
moustache ; rather colourless as to complexion,
but with a small, pale face of great intelligence,
made all the more striking by large,
dark eyes of piercing expression — said nothing,
and seemed to be merely following the
guidance of his friend. The friend went on
talking — rather as though to combat a slight
feelings of embarrassment than from having
any purpose in what he said, though all
the while speaking in a tone that implied
finished breeding.

Stupid of us to have come out so late.
We had a wish to see this place, and stopped
here on our way north. We ought to have
stayed at the inn, and to have come out herein
the morning."

You are connected with the Kinseyle
family, perhaps," Miss Barkley said.

No, not at all. My people are from
Gloucestershire ; but I was particularly
asked to look at Kinseyle Court by someone
interested in the place. Not that there's any
particular reason for it ; it's only a fancy."

Miss Barkley's curiosity was beginning to
assert itself about the stranger. Mrs. Squires
now came out with the chairs ; but the
visitors remained standing, the talkative one
willingly entering into conversation with
Miss Barkley, as she remarked that Kinseyle
Court was not much of a show place. It was
only interesting for the sake of a few antiquities,
and for its age and history.

The people the place belongs to now
never come here, then?"

The Miltenhams? No ; they live at Deer-bury
Park. The Court would have to be
almost rebuilt, I believe, to suit them."

And do not any members of the family
come here 1 I thought I had been told
something to that effect — about some of them
having a special affection for the house."

"Oh dear no ; they are quite a different
kind of people to that. But, Squires, don't
you think you had better be going up to the

vol. i. 3

house to see after Miss Edith ? I really am
getting uneasy."

The stranger caught with interest at this
remark, as Squires prepared to do as he was
asked, returning first to shut the side-gate
into the road.

Then there are some people staying at
the Court at present, do I understand,
though not any of the family you mentioned
r

Not staying there ; only my pupil, Miss
Kinseyle, has been looking over some books
in the library this afternoon, and I am waiting
to go home with her." Miss Barkley always
liked to give as well as to receive gossip.
u Perhaps you are acquainted with Mr.
Kinseyle of Compton Wood ?"

I have not that pleasure, though I should
value it very highly. Pardon me if I seem
very obtrusive and impertinent. My name
is Ferrars — George Ferrars — and my sister,
Mrs. Malcolm, must be acquainted, I fancy,
with the young lady you have just spoken of.
She especially asked me to go and look at
Kinseyle Court, to tell her something about
it she was curious to know. And now, I

think, as our friend the lodge-keeper seems
to be going up to the house, I should like to
walk up the avenue with him and glance at
the outside, at all events — that may suffice
for my purpose."

Hereupon, Miss Barkley declared that she
would go also ; her instinctive sense of duty
as chaperone triumphing over her reluctance
to return to the twilight shadows of the
Court. As they all went up the avenue, she
improved the opportunity for getting at the
origin of Mr. Ferrars's curiosity.

If you tell me what it is you want to
know about the Court, I might be able to
help you I have lived a long while with
Miss Kinseyle, and am often here."

; Ah — then Miss Kinseyle is doubtless the
young lady I was referring to, who has an
affection for the house, and is in some way
specially identified with it. It is very
strange."

Why should it be strange ? Miss
Kinseyle is in one way the last representative
of the old family."

I beg your pardon again. My questions
must seem rather crazy, even if you are good

3—2

enough to credit me with not being impertinent.
How can I explain % Tell me ; are
you much in the way of hearing about queer
coincidences, strange mental impressions,
you know — clairvoyance and that sort of

thing r

Oh, I dislike all that sort of thing
extremely. I hear a great deal too much of
it from Miss Kinseyle as it is, and I do not
believe anything about it."

But the young lady does, it would seem.
That makes the matter all the more curious.
Now, I will make a full confession, Miss

at least ; ah, I beg your pardon, I

forgot that I had not been properly introduced."


Miss Barkley mentioned her name. Mr.
Ferrars had a straightforward, confident
manner that she would have been unable to
resist even if she had had any motive for so
doing.

You see," he went on, " my sister, Mrs.
Malcolm has a good deal to do with that
sort of thing I was just speaking of, clairvoyance
and what not. Personally, I am
like you, you know r , I haven't anything to do

with it to speak of. But my sister is
different. And she has got an impression —
I can't tell you how she has got it — that she
very much wants to know a young lady who
is somehow specially connected with an old
house called Kinseyle Court. I had not
even got the name quite right till to-day.
She spelt it wrong. She did not know
the young lady's name, nor where the house
was situated, except that it was somewhere
about England. I have had a lot of trouble
about it with county directories, but now it
would seem that I have got upon what she
wants to know. And that is all that concerns
me. Of course, I should not be
impertinent enough to present myself to the
young lady, and should have nothing to say
to her if I did. But my sister knows everybody
in London, and can easily get a proper
introduction to anybody she wants to know,
when once she knows who it is she wants to
know, don't you know. The whole situation
seems a little mixed, but it is very simple,
really."

Miss Barkley wondered and marvelled
over the strange coincidence, and did not

know whether it would be necessary to tell
Miss Kinseyle anything about it ; but admitted
that there could be nothing to prevent
Mrs. Malcolm seeking to make the acquaintance
of the Kinseyle family through any of
the usual channels of society.

When they got up to the house, she led
the way round the front to the corner in which
the library was situated, and called out to her
pupil, but without getting any answer. The
windows were too high from the ground to be
looked into from the outside. This end of the
building was now bathed in the light of the
moon, which poured an almost level radiance
across an open space that should have been a
flower garden, and the twilight — of which,
indeed, but little now survived — was entirely
overcome by the whiter illumination. The
tall lattice windows shone steadily in the
moonlight, but no answering voice came from
them, nor did any sign of Edith appear
there.

What can she be about ?" Miss Barkley
exclaimed in much vexation. " I must go in
and see. Really, it is the strangest taste
that can make her stop here so late."

"If I can be the slightest use, pray
command me. Would you wish me to wait
here, or to accompany you V

Really, I hardly know. Please just
come into the hall, and then I will go in
search of Miss Kinseyle, while you wait
there. Goodness ! it's quite dark in here."
They had penetrated to the hall by this time,
and Miss Barkley was advancing to the left
with a beating heart, and towards the library
door, dimly discernible up a few stairs and
beyond a broad landing, lighted, though
faintly just then, from above. As Miss
Barkley opened the big door, light seemed
to come freely from the room by reason of
the moon shining brilliantly through the
large windows at the end.

u Edith !" she cried in the same impatient
tone as before, as she opened the door, and then
again, 'Edith!' in a wilder tone of alarm —
almost a scream — as she stepped into the
room. " What is the matter, in Heaven's
name !"

Her cry of terror overbore the instructions
she had given to her escort to remain in the
hall. Both young men sprang up the half-dozen

stairs in a moment, and followed her
into the library.

Edith was half kneeling, half lying prostrate
on the floor, her creamy white dress
shining as though luminous in the moonbeams,
her hands clasped together, stretched
before her and resting on a footstool, and her
face turned upwards towards the side door,
near the window end of the room, which led
into the Countess's Study. She was in no
faint, however, as Miss Barkley had supposed
at the first glance. As the governess
rushed forward towards her she rose on to
her knees, motioning Miss Barkley back
with her left hand, and then got up entirely,
still gazing into the inner room.

11 Oh, why did you disturb us V she said ina
dreamy tone, advancing towards the open
door and standing with her right hand upon
the side of the entrance.

What do you mean by ' us Edith ?" Miss
Barkley replied piteously, with tears of
nervous excitement in her voice. " Is anything
the matter ? You speak in such a
strange way."

The matter ! Oh no !" — though Miss

Kinseyle's manner was dreamy it was not
sad or oppressed : rapt, rather, and ecstatic.
I feel as if I had been in Heaven. But
now she has gone'

She turned towards Miss Barkley, and for
the first time saw Ferrars and his companion
in the background, standing near the door of
the library.

"Who is with you V

Only two gentlemen who came to my
assistance. I was frightened about you.
But you will come away, dear, now, won't
you \ You're not feeling ill, are you 1 You
didn't faint T

Miss Kinseyle was too deeply absorbed still
by the impressions she had been going through
to answer promptly to Miss Barkley's questions.
Meanwhile Ferrars began to feel de trop.

I came up the stairs because you cried
out and seemed frightened," he said to Miss
Barkley. " I will wait for you in the hall, as
you told me," and with that he retired.

His companion, however, seemed more
reluctant to move, and half turning as if to
follow Ferrars, remained in the shadow of
the doorway intently watching Miss Kin-style,

who was now seated on the stool she
had been leaning across when they came in.
Miss Barkley was kneeling beside her.

Dear B., I'm quite well, only a little
excited. A glass of water would be refreshing.
Can you get me one, do you think ?"

"Yes, dear, I'll try."

Miss Barkley was getting up, when the
stranger interposed.

May I be of service ? Pray remain with
the young lady, and let me go in search of
the water."

Oh, thank you — but you won't know
where to get it."

The keeper will show me."

He went off quickly on his errand.

Who is it, B.? He has a pleasant voice."

11 They are two gentlemen who came to seethe
Court. One of them has been talking
to me as we came up the drive. There is
something queer about it. I will tell you as
we go home ; but I'm so flurried and frightened
— I don't know why. I do so wish we
were back home."

Poor B.," said Miss Kinseyle in a soothing,
protecting tone. " Don't be alarmed ; it's

an angel I have seen, not a ghost. I feel as
if I could hardly tear myself away. Let me
first stand a few moments where she has been
standing," and she went up the two steps,
remaining just within the door of the study.
Oh, B. dear, I have had such a glorious
vision ! The beautiful angel has been here,
just where I am standing, talking to me for
I don't know how long, filling my mind with
such rapture, I can't describe it to you. I
feel that still. I have been lifted up out of
myself — I can't bear to come down again."

My dear Edith, perhaps you have been
dreaming. But you are not frightened, at
any rate, that's one good thing."

Frightened !" Miss Kinseyle answered,
with a dreamy emphasis on the word that
implied a wealth of feelings of quite an
opposite kind ; and then, turning inwards
towards the smaller room, she stretched out
her hands and murmured in a low voice, as
though addressing some invisible presence,
Good-night, dearest — good-bye till I see
you again, and may that be soon."

Then she came down into the library,
and put her hand on Miss Barkley's arm,

feeling her tremble, and divining her nervous
agitation.

My poor B., don't you be frightened.
There is nothing to be frightened about, I
assure you. Sit down and recover yourself."

"I'm glad we are not quite alone here. It
was really most providential those gentlemen
coming up just when they did. I don't think
there's any doubt about their really being
gentlemen. The one I was talking to —
the other one — says his people belong to
Gloucestershire, His name is Ferrars."

How dreadfully prosaic ; and I suppose
the other one has got some stupid name too,
and ' people ' in another county. I like
people to be themselves, whoever they are,
and not mere family appendages of somebody
else."

I don't know what the other one's name

is " Miss Barkley began, but at that

moment he came back with the water.

I hope this will refresh you," he said,
bowing as he presented it.

Now that his hat was off, the most remarkable
feature of his face was seen to bea
broad high forehead, showing great intellectual

power, surmounted by closely-cut
and not very thick light brown hair, parted
in the middle. As he stood in the full and
vivid moonlight, presenting the glass of
water, the pallor of his complexion and the
depth of his large dark eyes were both
intensified ; and Miss Kinseyle was conscious
of a thrill of excitement she could hardly
account for as he looked at her.

You only feel, as it were, disinclined to
move — neither weak nor alarmed ?" he said ina
tone of confident inquiry.

That is just it," she replied. " I can't
tear myself away, though I suppose I ought."

Drink a little of the water, and you will
feel light and active again."

You have not put anything in it ? I hate
brandy and things of that sort."

It is pure water, with only a little magic
in it — for you, at this moment. And it will
not be at war with your vision."

Vaguely wondering at the confident tone
in which he spoke and seemed to understand
her, but impelled to feel very trustful, Miss
Kinseyle drank some of the water, looking at
him all the while — fascinated, as it were, by

the keen look he bent upon her, and emancipated
from the formalities of life by the
singular conditions of the scene. She got up
when she had returned him the glass of
water, and they all went out of the library
at once, and into the open air, as if that
had been previously arranged. She said
nothing about feeling stronger, but with
animated interest, as they went, asked :

What do you know about my vision V

Nothing concerning it," he said, " which
may be private to yourself. Nothing concerning:
it which is definite at all ; but I can
see its reflection on your face, and it must
have been a beautiful vision, and a noble
one, to have left such traces."

But what do such things mean \ Can
you tell me anything about them ? Do you
know V

"About such things one may know justa
little more than one's neighbour, and yet
be only overwhelmed with a sense that we
only know about their faintest fringes. If I
said I knew nothing, I should mislead you.
If I said I knew much, I should seem false
to my own consciousness."

They were all standing in the open space
before the house. Miss Barkley, feeling the
strain of the situation to be relaxing, began
to come again under the dominion of her
sense of duty as chaperone.

Squires will see to the hall door, dear,"
she said, " and follow us immediately. I'm
sure we have to thank these gentlemen most
warmly for coming to our assistance ; but
now I think of it, we must say good evening,
and hurry home. 5 '

Yes, we will walk on. We are all going
the same way to the gate," said Miss Kin-belle,
with the calm composure ensuing from
her inner consciousness that her will, once
defined plainly, was never practically disputed.
She moved forward with her new
friend by her side, and Miss Barkley followed
them, closely attended b} r Mr. Ferrars.

I dare say," Miss Kinseyle went on,
u that what you call very little knowledge
would seem a great deal to me. I know
nothing. I understand nothing about what
I see. I can only gaze and feel enraptured,
and long to know more. And none of my
people seem to understand me."

You know more by the light of your own
great gifts, evidently, than most of us who
study these things can find out in a lifetime.
It is so difficult to explain. We, who are
students of the occult mysteries of nature —
for I may at any rate call myself a student
of these — spend our time groping through
intricate theories for the means of compassing
such visions as those that seem to come to
you by nature. If I were privileged to be
in any sense your teacher, it would only be
in the beginning that I should be able to
teach. I could only teach you to understand
the priceless value of your own powers, and
then it would be my part to learn of and
through you."

But you know I do not have such an
experience as that I have had to-day at all
often. I never had quite such a one before.
Is it so rare for people to have visions of any
sort? It has seemed to me sometimes as if
the people round me must be the exceptional
people in not seeing things sometimes."

I understand your feeling ; but it is a
mistake, though natural to you. There are
just enough of the highly endowed creatures

of your kind in the world to show us, who
are students of Nature's mysteries, that you
are dealing with realities, though these may
only occasionally be observed. You are
certainly not all self-deceived, nor imposing
on the rest of the world, to the same effect,
without any concert among } T ourselves."

I am sure I never exaggerate anything,
and yet people don't seem quite to believe
what I tell them about impressions I have.
It is so strange to feel quite sure you have
seen so and so, whatever it may be, and then
to have people look incredulous or pretend
you were dreaming, when you know quite
well you were wide awake."

That is one of the little penalties of your
superiority. But, sooner or later, you will
be sure to meet many people who will understand
you."

i; You seem to be the first I have met yet ;
and you do not make me understand myself
altogether."

"Have patience a little while longer—
the rest will come,— a fuller comprehension of
yourself, and of a great deal beyond. What
is the use of attempting to go into so vast a

vol. i. 4

subject with so little time at my command.
I am sure you will not have to wait long for
the most helpful guidance and instruction
you can need."

Where will it be that I shall meet people
who can help me ? Will it be with my
cousins, the Miltenhams ? That is my only
outlet into society. Do you know them ?"

No; but that is my fault. I lead a very
retired life. It is necessary that I should for
many reasons."

Can I do nothing to seek help ? I feel as
if you know much more than you say — more
even about me, though we are strangers — sofar."


He made no immediate reply.

Miss Kinseyle could feel rather than see, in
the darkness of the avenue, that he was
grave and sad, and in no way responsive to
what was almost an invitation on her part to
a more intimate acquaintance.

Presently he said, with some flavour of
constraint in his voice :

Later on, if I can be of any use to you,
you will have easy means of commanding
my services. I hope, for your sake, you

will find others at jour disposal better worth
having. I rarely step outside a very narrow
path in life."

The young lady felt a little mortified and
rebuffed, and they walked on for a while
in silence.

My counsel' he resumed, after this interval,
and the earnest tone in which he spoke,
and its sadness, which now seemed to overshadow
its constraint, changed her feeling of
annoyance into one of undefined sympathy,
"can only be just of transitory service for
the moment — pending better. But for the
moment I will presume to advise. Do not
waste your confidence, as regards your own
inner experiences, on people, however good
and entitled to your affection in other ways,
who take up that attitude you spoke of, of
incredulity about them. You, evidently,
have gifts which mark you out as one of a
select few on this earth. You will assuredly
meet your proper companions, as regards
your higher spiritual life, as time goes on.
Be patient, meanwhile, and watchful ; treasuring
up your higher experiences, and leading
two lives for the moment — one outer, and

4—2

the other inner ; but remembering that the
inner is really by far the more important of
the two. Do not let the other crush it.
For all of us, if we could only realize it, the
spiritual life is the more important ; but only
a few of us have the immense privilege you
enjoy of being already able to secure that asa
reality. That is the first great lesson for
you to learn ; but I think } 7 ou have learned
so much already. Forgive me, however, for
presuming to preach ; your own intuitions
will show you all this a thousand times more
forcibly than I can."

But, indeed, I am asking you to preach
as you call it. All you say is full of interest,
and seems to clear things up for me more
than I can tell you. You seem to wake
up a consciousness of my own, that I did
not rightly understand before. I do lead
the double life you speak of, and it has
fretted me hitherto ; but now I understand
the right attitude of mind about
it."

They were nearing the gate now, but a
sudden thought crossed Edith's fancy.

How was it we came away from the

library so suddenly ? I meant to have
lingered on."

You felt fresher and more active after
you had drunk the water."

But now I remember ; what did you
mean by saying there was a little magic in
it?"

You are very, very sensitive. It was
merely my desire to make you feel stronger
and better. Your vital energy had been a
little impaired by your excitement."

But how was your desire communicated
to me ? I do feel strong and energetic. I
did not notice it before "

The others closed up on them now, however,
as they came opposite the lodge.

Mr. Squires had overtaken them, and
Miss Barkley called to him to accompany
them home. She was getting nervous about
the prolonged interview with strangers, and
anxious to part company, in a way which
Mr. Ferrars perceived, not without internal
amusement. She would have parted simply
with gracious words and thanks and bows ; but
Edith held out her hand, first to Mr. Ferrars
sa they all stood together by the gate, and

then to her companion. With the queenlike
and composed dignity which sat so naturally
on her, though so quaintly in contrast with her
small slight figure, she said, as she did so :

I should be glad to know to whom I am
indebted for so much interesting conversation
r

Allow me," said Ferrars, lifting his hat,
to present my friend — ' Mr. Sidney Marston.'
"

They all bowed, with a sudden access of
formality, and the ladies turned up the road,
followed by Squires, while the strangers
retreated in the opposite direction towards
Thracebridge.

A One-sided ENGAGEMENT.

Marston, on whose slight physique the
double walk, or some other influences, had
told more than on his companion, went to
his room to lie down with a book and a pipe
soon after the apology for a dinner with
which the village inn they were staying at
supplied them ; and Ferrars spent the evening
writing to his sister a report of his proceedings,
infused with much eulogy of the skill he had
shown in following up her very inadequate
clue.

You tell me' he wrote, '' that somewhere
about England there is a young lady you
want me to find for you, and you do not
know her name, nor appearance, nor who she
belongs to. You say, you fancy she must
live at a place called Kindle Court, probably
situated in the British Islands. There isn't

any such place in existence, and there is no
young lady living there ; but all the same, I
have found you the young lady you want,
and her name is Edith Kinseyle, and she is
the daughter of a man named Ferron Kin-style,
who lives at Compton Wood, in
Midhamptonshire. She must be your young
ladjr, for she haunts the old house of her
family, Kinseyle — not Kindle — Court, and
is evidently given to having ecstatic visions,
quite in your line. How have I found her
out ? By the exercise of superlative genius.
How am I rewarded for my devotion to
your behests ? By spending the evening ina
den of a village inn — poor dear Sidney
Marston, who came with me to bear me
company, being seedy, and having gone to
bed — writing, with a bad pen, on worse
paper, by the light of a wretched couple of
candles, on an absurd bedroom dressing-table ;
when, if I had not come here, to serve a
tyrannical sister, I should have been actually
sitting at dinner, at this moment, beside
Terra Filclare at Hatfield.

Perhaps that would not necessarily have
been heaven for me, you will argue — and I

freely grant that it might have been an
arrangement with a spice of the other place,
if Terra had been in a bad mood. But even
if I have not finally conquered my Queen
yet, I must be vigorously prosecuting the
war, or life is unendurable. You resent the
notion, do you not, that even a Terra Kildare
should play fast and loose with your excellent
brother. But it does not seem to me
strange that such a princess should deliberate
awhile before surrendering so grand a prize
as herself to the first man who comes along
and says, ' Please come and be my property
for the rest of your life.' The oddity of the
situation is merely in the confidence there is
between you and me; but then we are not
like other brothers and sisters. We are all
in all to each other, and it is merely a
mystery of love that I can be filled in every
pore with passionate enthusiasm for Terra,
and yet be entirely devoted to you, as I
always have been since life gave me any
memory of my emotions, and always must
be to the end. And you are so penetrating
in your comprehension of this, that you can
love Terra with me, and only reserve yourself

the right of hating her if she decides todo
without me.

There is the only mistake you make —
though so pardonable in you. She will be
quite within her right either way, and I
shall love her either way — to my sorrow or
my joy, as she may settle things; and I do
not see how it is conceivable that, in that
way, I can ever love another woman. In
talking over this with you we are apt to get
desultory, so I think I have not wasted this
evening altogether in putting the idea into
accurate words."

Ferrars posted his letter the following
morning on his way to the railway station,
where the two friends parted, Mr. Marston
returning to London, Ferrars going on North.
Mr. Squires was thus disappointed of the other
half-crown he counted on from the gentlemen
who had been so eager to see Kinseyle
Court. It had not occurred to Ferrars
the previous evening to explain that having
achieved success in the final purpose with
which he had come to see the Court, it would
be unnecessary for him to return the next
day. So Squires looked out for him and

even mentioned that he was still expecting
the two gentlemen, when Edith and Miss
Barkley came across, the day after the young
lady's vision in the library This midday
visit was a sort of compromise. Miss
Kinseyle had proposed that they should
again go after dinner, but Miss Barkley had
suffered much over the prospect. Did Edith
wish to drive herself mad, or sell herself to
the Evil One, or give a handle to superstition,
by letting herself fancy she had made acquaintance
with a ghost, when everybody
knew perfectly well that Kinseyle Court was
quite free of any nuisance of the kind, sofar
? It would be Edith who would be
responsible for spoiling the character of the
house, if she went about deliberately encouraging
ghosts to come there ; and would
it not be only right at all events to discuss
the whole subject with her father ? On that
point Miss Barkley scored. Edith could not
deny that this would be a proper course to
pursue, but there was no hurry. She would
like to make quite sure of some things first
before talking to Papa.

k - My dear Edith, what things ?" Miss

Barkley apprehended that the young lady
contemplated some fresh reference to the
ghost.

Some things about the history of the
family, I mean. I can't remember everything
She said to me. I can't remember a
quarter of it, and I am longing to see her
again. But for the moment what I want is
to look up something in the Kinseyle Annals."

"We need not wait till the gray of the
evening for that, at all events," Miss Barkley
pointed out. " Why not go over this
morning ?"

On reflection Edith agreed, and it was
only when she remarked later, as they were
walking across the fields, that very likely
Mr. Ferrars and Mr. Marston would beat
the Court during the morning, that
Miss Barkley perceived she had swayed
over from Scylla to Charybdis. To avoid
the ghost she had steered her pupil into
the companionship of strange gentlemen
of a somewhat obtrusive temperament —
possibly undesirable admirers in disguise.
But, as already stated, the anxiety she
felt on this subject was thrown away.

Neither Mr. Ferrars nor his friend turned
up at all, and — without avowing it to
herself even, still less to Miss Barkley —
Edith perhaps shared, for different reasons,
the regret and disapproval Mr. Squires
frankly expressed.

I don't see what call he had to make out
he was in such a hurry to see the Court. I
don't understand that chap," said the lodge-keeper,
vaguely suspicious, when the ladies
bade him good-bye in the afternoon.

Ferrars, meanwhile, was speeding on his
way North towards the country house near
the Lakes, at which he was look in gf forward
to meeting, the lady, of whom he had written
to his sister. Hatfield was the pleasant seat
of a county magnate, who in his time had
represented his Sovereign abroad on one or
two ornamental occasions — Sir James Margreave.
Ferrars — himself in the early stages
of the diplomatic career — had served under
Sir James, and had been his guest at Hatfield
since then, on two or three occasions, when
at home on leave. Terra Fildare was a
niece of the baronet, daughter of a colonel
in the service of the Government of India,,

who had married his sister, since dead. She
had no money to speak of, but a splendid
physique — the head and bust of a Roman
Empress — tawny hair, cut short, for a whim
of the wearer, but massive and abundant and
curling low over her forehead ; a glowing
complexion, a majestic figure — the poses ot
which, however, were quite unstudied, for
her nature was impulsive and her vitality
too vigorous to be compatible with any
queenly langour — and an almost unruly love
of outdoor activity in all the forms accessible
to her as a girl. A hankering after some
that were thus inaccessible made her sometimes
impatient of her sex. She had spent
some years of early girlhood with her father
in India ; had shot a tiger from an elephant's
howdah — an exploit organized for her by a
Spanish Count, who had been travelling
through the North-west Provinces at the
time, and the fame of which spread far too
widely for her pleasure and comfort or her
father's approval ; and had soon after this
been sent home, for fear she should fall a
victim in her turn to some one or other of a
crowd of young officers at the station where

Colonel Fildare found himself fixed for a
year or two at least. Lady Margreave had
given her a long invitation, privately
promising the Colonel to dispose of the
young lady to better advantage than amongst
the enamoured subalterns at Chuckapore.

Lady Margreave was the one other person
besides his sister to whom Ferrars had
confided the fact that he had invested his
prospects of happiness in the uncertain issue
of the siege he had laid to Terra Fildare's
heart. She had neither favoured nor opposed
his views. At first she had counted
on a rather brilliant settlement for her
splendid niece. Her own family of sons left
her ambition as a matchmaker free to concentrate
itself on Terra. But acute observation
soon showed her that Terra was more
admired than sought after. Her haughty
and imperious temper was perhaps more on
the surface than in the inner nature of the
girl, but it operated to frighten off men who
would not have been insensible to her charms
if these had been softened by a gentler
manner. Terra was not the " hit " in society
that her aunt had at first expected her to

prove. Lady Margreave diagnosed the
situation quite correctly, and endeavoured to
suggest a remedy. But Terra grew savage
with unspent energy, when her aunt tried
to keep down her physical activity, and
vented her fretful moods on the gentlemen
she was set to dance with, or dine beside.
She loved as well as obeyed Lady Margreave,
so the elder lady had no ground or inclination
to be angry with her. The question was
simply, whether for her own sake she could
be cured of her faults ; and when she
divined the purpose with which Lady Margreave
was trying to cure her, she pleaded
for mercy in an agony of protest.

My own dearest Aunt Mary !" she cried,
throwing herself on the ground beside Lady
Margreave's chair ; the conversation had
taken place in Park Street where the Mar-greaves
lived when in town, and the morning
after a ball. " Make me a dairymaid at Oat-field,
if you like ; send me back to poor Papa
at that miserable hole where he is stationed;
or leave me to live on my own income, my
own way, instead of spending it in gloves ;
but don't set me to mince and simper for the

sake of captivating a husband. Oh, Heavens !
the notion of marrying a man who could be
caught that way. Besides, I don't want to
be married, I hate the idea of getting
married ; I don't like men as such. They
make me ano^rv and not tender. I can befriends
with them up to a certain point, if
they don't want to be tender to me; but then
I simply turn furious."

And show it, my dear Terra, so plainly,
that anyone who knows you, can perceive it
across two rooms."

That's wrong of me, as a question of good
taste, but justifiable considering the provocation.
I love you, Aunty, and Victoria Maxwell
; and when you get tired of me I shall
know it in my nerves, and shall softly and
silently vanish away like the baker in " Hunting
the Snark." But, till then, let me love
you in peace."

She had been sitting on the ground with her
arm across Lady Margreave's knees, and now,
swinging into a new attitude with the easy
grace of a leopard, she leaned her head back
on her aunt's lap and held up both hands
towards her, clasping them round her neck

vol. i. 5

as she leaned forward to bestow the caress
thus invited.

Lady Margreave, who had an eye for
female beauty, felt very strongly that Terra
was mismanaging her life, though she could
hardly rebuke her for not putting herself upto
auction in a calculating spirit. She saw
that it would be best to wait for events to
developed themselves, and so the first season
of Terra's association with the Margrave
household passed without leading to any
results.

It was in the course of the second that she
met George Ferrars. She had seen him ride
in a steeplechase, and ride the winner. This
was at a country meeting during Easter.
Ten days afterwards at the Margreave's, in
town, he was appointed to take Terra down
to dinner. Something happened to his heartstrings
during the ceremony — as he afterwards
explained to Mrs. Malcolm — and
whether it was foolish or whether it was the
coup deceit of genius, he knew when he roseat
the end of the feast and drew back Terra's
chair for her, that he should propose for herat
the first opportunity. Terra, for her part,

was well disposed to him to begin with. Circumstances
had not yet advanced far enough
for him to be tender in his manner. Their conversation
had been bright and unembarrassed.
She started with good first impressions, as she
knew at any rate that he was no milk-sop.
But they fell into a talk of books and some
social movements and the duties of different
people in life — drawing-room metaphysics
generally — that interested her and made
her forgetful of personalities — of her own
especially.

And here, we have never said a word
about the Briceborough Cup !" she remarked
within a few minutes of the time the ladies
were drawn off.

"And it is quite the best that no words
should be said about it. My reputation as
an attache would be ruined with Lord Max-borough,
if he thought I was infected with
harshness. which I am not. I rode to oblige
a friend."

And what has Lord Marlborough got
to do with it ?"

He is my chief, my ambassador, the architect,
let us trust, of my future fortunes." Then

5—2

he added, as the thought crossed his mind
that he would be on firm ground, such as it
was with Miss Fildare from the first, and
surprise her into no concessions which she
might make on the assumption that he was
a greater man in the world than was really
the case. " There are diplomatists, like our
host you know, who are careless of the loaves
and fishes, and there are other diplomatists,
who are constrained to care about them very
much, like me."

Miss Fildare was a hundred leagues from
divining the purpose of this speech, but it
made Ferrars rather more interesting than
before in her sight, as a combatant on the
world's stage. In truth it overshot the mark,
as regards the sense in which she took the
words, for Ferrars, though no heir of large
fortune, had some moderate means of his
own independently of his ornamental profession.
Without this he would hardly have
formed the resolution, spoken of already, as
crossing his mind when he drew back Terra
Fildare's chair.

The opportunity for putting this resolution
in practice occurred almost within a week of

their first meeting. Chance had favoured
him in furnishing two or three further opportunities
of talking with Miss Fildare, but in
none of these had he hinted at any deep feelings,
or made love in veiled phrases. He had
been simple, straightforward, and natural, talking
to her about things, places, and people —
her own tastes ; and even rather disparaging
some of these, for he w T as too serious in his
purpose with her to be insincere, even in
trifles.

"I enjoy sport thoroughly," he said, "to put
the matter in a paradoxical way, as long as I
have a sub-consciousness of the fact that I
don't really care about it. If I came to
suspect that I did, I think I should turn
away from it in disgust. I once heard a
friend of mine say amongst a lot of men
talking about smoke and drink, and that sort
of thing, ' If I found myself with a habit I
could not break, I should break myself of it
next day.' That puts the whole thing far
more neatly and rightly, than if one were toto
spread out the idea in a formal logical
sentence."

You're a man, and you always do what

you like, so you never fret for anything. It
is only not getting a thing one wants, that
makes one want it especially."

That depends on the thing. About one
class of things, what you say is quite true,
and the fact that that is so, condemns them
really as things not worth wanting. Another
class of things — the more you get them the
more you want them."

Money T

No, I don't mean money. In a bad sense
what I have just said is true, perhaps, of
money ; but it is still truer in regard to
having your life fairly well filled with interests
that you can respect yourself for being
interested in. And it is true, I think, of yet
another kind of thing."

The conversation was taking place in Park
Street. Ferrars had met the Margreave
party at a concert, and had gone home with
them by invitation for afternoon tea. Lady
Margreave was talking to another visitor in
the principal drawing-room. Ferrars and
Terra had gone into a smaller room, opening
out of this at one corner — a kind of boudoir
looking over the Park, to inspect a small

picture lately added to its art treasures, and
there had remained talking.

And your other kind of thing, whatever
it is, will again be found, I am sure, to be
accessible to men only. Women have a poor
fate at the best ; but as compared with dress
and driving about town, I think grouse
shooting is a better sort of interest, not to
speak of tigers."

My other kind of thing is not inaccessible
to women ; and I may as well tell you what
it is, Miss Fildare, now, as later."

Terra was standing by the window, Ferrars
leaning on the top of a ]ow-seated, tall-backed
chair close by, but he did not move from this
position, and calmly went on :

All the other interests of my life have now
come to be subordinate to one. Don't be
startled at what I am going to say, though I
put it very abruptly. I can even explain
why I am so abrupt if you listen quietly."

Terra turned round from the window to
look fall at him, with open eyes, as he spoke
across the chair that divided them.

My supreme purpose in life now, Miss
Fildare, has come to be to get you to share

it with me. Let us consider why that is so
afterwards. First, I want you to know —
because I like to be honest and straightforward
— what I mean in seeking your society
what I am hoping to persuade you to do in
the end."

Miss Fildare was taken too much bv surprise
to say anything for the moment, beyond
a half articulate exclamation of wonder. She
leaned back against the embrasure of the
window, still looking Ferrars straight in the
eyes, but whether with the expression of a
hunted animal at bay, or with the exhilaration
of a sudden excitement that was not
disagreeable, it might have been difficult to
determine.

"You are too splendidly honest a creature,
Miss Fildare, to tolerate cunning manoeuvres
designed to win you by degrees, I have
loved you altogether, unreservedly, from
the first day I met you, and if I did not
tell you so, I should be acting a false part
every time I came near you. But do not
suppose I expect you to come down off } r our
throne, and give yourself to me all at once.
Only let me argue the matter with you

reasonably, and not be beating about the
bush."

I've always hated the idea of getting
married," said Terra, slowly and intensely.

I don't see why you should hate the idea
of being the embodied sunshine of a true
man's life; but I divined that feeling in
you that you speak of, and I only hope to
show you by degrees that it is a mistaken
feeling. But first of all I want you to take
one resolution, which surely must be a wise
one. Do not decide this matter against my
wishes hastily. I will be patient on my side.
You can see, of course, that I would rather
take you in my arms now, than do any other
ear til v thins: "

Dont, I tell you, I hate all that "

I won't," saidFerrars, still without moving
from his first attitude. " That's what I mean
I tell you plainly, I love you utterly and
finally, with passion as well as with fixity of
purpose. But I do not see that that gives
me any rights over you, unless you choose to
accept my love."

I suppose I'm differently made in someway
from other women ? Most girls, they say,

like to be made love to ; but it drives me
mad, and it is only because you talk so
reasonably in one way, that I can bear it now
as I do. Goodness knows it isn't reasonable
on your part to want to make love to me.
Surely you don't want to marry a girl because
you think her handsome, merely, and what
is there to recommend me but the outside ?
I'm a hard, fretful, discontented creature,
and I believe I ought to have been a
man."

You don't understand yourself in the
least little bit. You might as well show me
your hand with a glove on it, and say that
is the shape of the glove and not of the hand.
Your real inner nature must correspond to
the glorious outside you talk about."
I never said it was glorious."

No ; that's what I think "

Lady Margreave came into the smaller
room at this juncture to show her visitor the
picture. There was nothing odd about the
grouping of the young people to suggest that
they had been interrupted. Terra left the
room while the picture was under examination.
Then the visitor went, and then

Perhaps explained the situation to Lady
Margreave.

Thus was established the order of things
referred to in the letter Ferrars wrote to his
sister from the village inn. Terra Fildare
was not engaged : that had to be formally
recognized by all parties concerned, at intervals,
and she would point out with great
emphasis that the situation was most unfair
and trying to Mr. Ferrars — as he himself
would grant in regard to its being a trial ;
while pointing out in his turn that his case
would not in any way be alleviated if on the
ground that it was hard to begin with, it
should be made a great deal worse by the
destruction of the hopes with which, at all
events so far, it was associated. Then, although
Terra declared herself simply unable to
recognize that she was honestly in love in
return, without which, the notion of engaging
herself to be married would be unendurable,
there were comparatively sunny gleams
daring the strange courtship to which she
found herself subject, when Ferrars' vows of
total abstinence in regard to the usual demonstrations
of a lover's feeling were a

little broken into. There had been, for
example, a somewhat greater expansion of
sentiment than usual when Ferrars bade
her good-bye, before going abroad to his
appointment for a few weeks, before the visit
to Hatfield, in the course of which he took
Kinseyle Court en route.

My darling, that may be' he said, when
the parting embrace took place ; " and, my
only love, in any case, you are free as air,
though I do carry away these sweet recollections
of you. Nothing will impair that
freedom but your own deliberate choice and
spoken word. So do not be afraid that I
shall misunderstand a moment's kind impulse
when I am going away."

And with this recognition of her irresponsibility,
Terra suffered herself to be
magnetised for the moment by her lover's
enthusiasm, and to be so far responsive as to
tremble for a while on the verge of an
unconditional surrender. If Ferrars had
been less faithful to the promises and
principles of his courtship, he might, perhaps,
have carried all before him in that
critical instant, and later events might

have fallen out differently ; but he loyally
tore himself away from her without attempting
to snatch an advantage from a transitory
weakness of hers, and long bore in his recollection
the parting look of tenderness that
suffused her glowing beauty, and the moisture
that glittered in her eyes.

UNPROMISING SYMPTOMS.

Hatfield, though bearing that unpretending
name, was a stately edifice of historical
interest, with a central painted hall for a
dining-room, high enough to be dominated
by a broad gallery at one end on a level with
the bedroom floor, covered by a vaulted
and carven roof and lighted with stained-glass
windows. A long picture gallery, with
two gigantic fireplaces — themselves elaborate
works of sculpture — ran along the front of
one side of the house on the ground level,
and this, enlarging at the further end into
an L-shaped morning-room, and that again
opening into the largest conservatory of the
establishment, constituted the favourite haunt
of the family when no special ceremonial
claimed the use of the great drawing-room
beyond the d dining-hall.

In the gallery, Sir !" Ferrars was told he
would find her ladyship, on his arrival about
six. And he passed up the room, hearing
voices at the further end, though he neither
saw nor was seen till he reached the corner
where the L turned. Then he came on a group
of people with the remains of tea on a low
table in their midst, gathered round the
entrance to the conservatory. Lady Margrave
was knitting in a low armchair. A
dark-haired, bright, beady-eyed, high complexioned
girl of middle stature was seated
at the tea-table, looking up laughing at
Terra Fildare, who was standing just
within the conservatory. Terra was dressed
in a severe, dark-green braided costume
short for walking — with a small round
hat of the same colour and cloth fastened
on her wavy mass of red gold hair,
and in her right hand she held by the
barrels — the butt resting on the pavement
a gun. Within the room was a man
in country walking costume — dark brown
clothes and lighter brown gaiters ; tall,
slender, with a close black beard and moustache
covering his mouth and chin,

and a long, but not prominent nose that
gave an impassive, rather saturnine, expression
to his otherwise undoubtedly handsome
face. The two had evidently come
in from the grounds. A footman was
standing near Miss Fildare, having apparently
been summoned to take charge of
the gun.

The greetings incidental to Ferrars' arrival,
gave a new turn to the conversation. The
gun w r as given up to the footman, and taken
away. The young lady herself shook hands
with Ferrars with a certain formality,
ensuing perhaps, from a sense of having
been surprised in the display of that instinct
in her nature with which he was least
sympathetic ; and then Lady Margreave
presented him to the two members of the
party with whom he was unacquainted :
Miss Maxwell and Count Carniola.

A meeting with Terra under these conditions
was a painful contrast for Ferrars, with
his recollections of their last parting, but he
could only sit down, accept tea, and join
in the talk going on. Terra was taciturn,
and, grandly beautiful though she could not

help being at all times, was in one of her
least amiable moods.

I planned to have you with us yesterday,"
said Lady Margreave, kindly disposed to
make things as pleasant as possible for her
guest, whose constraint and annoyance at
having no opportunity of greeting Terra
more freely, she readily divined : " The
Morrison came over to dine, and we had
some nice music in the evening."

It was very good of you. I should have
been here yesterday, but for a mission I had
to fulfil for my sister. Life is full of contrarieties.
I spent the evening all by myself
at a village inn, when I might have been so
much better employed."

Miss Maxwell, turning to the Count, detached
herself from the dialogue thus set on
foot, and picked up the thread of what they
had been talking about before Ferrars joined
them.

I think it must have been your story
of the bull-fight that made Terra so bloodthirsty
this morning, months before any
respectably brought up birds are ready for
slaughter. If you had us in Spain, Count

vol. i. 6

Garciola, we should all be wearing stiletto
and using them on one another in a fortnight,
I believe."

You ladies are armed with stiletto by
nature, Miss Maxwell," said the Count, speaking
slowly in a deep, melodious voice, with
the least imaginable foreign accent, " and
your eyelids are their sheaths. But you do
not use them most on one another."

We have got weapons for one another,"
said Terra, " but they are not our eyes.
Some of us find our tongues more deadly."

Ferrars, only half engrossed with answering
Lady Margreave's questions about his
adventures en route, caught the general
flavour of this badinage with a sense of discomfort.


That," said the Count, "is no doubt why
you can dispense with the weapons of our
beautiful barbarians in Spain. To carry
the dagger, also, would be indeed superfluous."


I deny that we have any weapons," said
Miss Maxwell. " Leave us our northern
meekness as our only shield. But it is nice
to talk about your southern velocities. When

is it etiquette for Spanish ladies to stab
people V

When their lovers are untrue, mademoiselle
; but there are ways of keeping lovers
true, more certain than the fear of steel —
more deadly, as Miss Fildare tells us."

Terra was generally so impatient of sentimental
talk, that Ferrars expected her to
manifest some kind of contempt for this
empty frivolity. But this time she merely
answered lightly :

I would like the steel best. You must
send to Madrid and get me a trustworthy
poniard."

11 What nonsense you children are talking!"
said Lady Margreave. " I don't believe
Spanish ladies ever use any sharper instrument
than a fan. But how did you know
where to go, Mr. Ferrars, if your sister
merely sent you in search of a young lady
without giving you her name or address ?"

She gave me something like the name of
the house she belonged to, and I found it outwith
the help of Burke and the County
Directories ; and then I, or rather we, for I
had a friend with me to share my adventures,

6—2

came on the young lady, as it happened,
in a deserted old house all by herself, in a
trance or a fit. It was quite a romantic
incident, I assure you."

What on earth do you mean. Was shea
female hermit, or a Lady of Shalott V

By no means ; there was a governess in
waiting and a gamekeeper. The young lady
came to of her own accord, and went away."

But does she live all by herself in the
deserted house with the governess and the
gamekeeper % You have made friends with
a very extraordinary family !"

And why did you let her go away V asked
lively Miss Maxwell, joining in the talk.
Wasn't she pretty ? or wasn't she so young
as she had been ?"

She was a charming girl about eighteen
or nineteen, I suppose ; and yet I came on
north next morning," said Ferrars, " and did
not try to find out any more about her than
just her name and address, which I sent to
Mrs. Malcolm. Then my business was over."

I do not understand the situation in the
least," said Lady Margreave. " But diplomatists
are nothing if they are not mysterious."

And when they don't understand situations
themselves," Ferrars replied, "then their
solemnity gets most impressive. The mystery
of the young lady is so far unfathomable.
Why she haunts the deserted house in the
dusk of the evening ; why her governess is
frightened to go near the place ; why my
friend and I find ourselves waiting in an unknown
hall for two ladies whom we don't
know ; why we hear piercing shrieks and
rush up to their assistance, and are then
told that there is nothing the matter and get
no further explanation, I am wholly unable
to say."

"Good gracious!" said Miss Maxwell ; "this
is the first we hear of the piercing shrieks."

"Bat who shrieked ? and why V asked
Lady Margreave.

I haven't the least conception," said
Ferrars, purposely entangling his narrative
for the sake of humouring the position. " I
think now it must have been the ghost."

Is there a lunatic asylum at hand, dear
Lady Margreave," asked Miss Maxwell, " incase
any of us go crazy V

Hatfield will be one by the time Mr.

Ferrars lias finished his story. But pray
tell us more about the ghost. What was he

like r

c I did not see the ghost. I only heard
the scream. Then the ladies came away, and
I made myself agreeable to the governess,
while my friend talked to the young lady,
and the house was locked up."

And the ladies locked out V said Miss
Maxwell. " Then where do they sleep ? — on
the roads V

I don't know ; but it is easy to understand
that the ghost may prefer to be left
alone at night. And, besides, the house does
not belong to the ladies at all. The keeper
sees them safely home when they have
finished screaming."

I can quite understand that they want a
keeper,' said Miss Maxwell. " Does she look
dangerous, the Lady of Shalott, or only
melancholy V

Not melancholy, at any rate — bright and
beautiful in quite a remarkable degree."

"We must try and elicit the truth from
him by degrees," said Lady Margreave, " when
he is off his guard. You must never ask a

diplomatist a straightforward question. But
meanwhile let us have a little fresh air. Will
you come to the garden, Terra, and let us
gather some roses V

Miss Maxwell tripped off to get Lady
Margreave a hat. The rest went out into
the conservatory, and stood about looking at the
plants for a little while, then round the outer
door ; but when the hat was brought, Terra
declared that she had been walking about
enough, and would go to her room to be lazy
till dinner.

"I will do execution on the roses tomorrow,
Aunt Mary," she said, " and make a clean
sweep of the old ones all through the house. "

Ferrars only had the opportunity, as they
moved about the conservatory, of exchanging
half a dozen words with her.

You got my letter from the Hague ?"

Yes ; I had no need to answer, as I knew
you were coming here. Besides, I had
nothing fresh to tell you. I like being in
the country, you know, and I've merely been
enjoying myself."

I hope you may do that always, wherever
you are."

Lady Margreave and Ferrars went out
into the grounds by themselves after all, as
Terra commanded Miss Maxwell's attendance
on herself, and the Count said he was promised
half an hour with Sir James.

He's hooked on to the Spanish embassy,
is he not ?" said Ferrars.

Yes ; something to do with commercial
treaties. He's a great traveller. He knew
Terra and her father in India. Spent sometime
with them, apparently, when they were
at Allahabad."

He was the hero of the tiger episode in
India then, I suppose V

;c Yes ; Terra has a desperate penchant for
excitement of that kind. She is young, and
strong, and full of vitality, and will tone down
in time, I hope ; but for the present I do not
think it would be wise to put too heavy a
restraint upon her. That is why I humoured
her whim this afternoon, when she got excited
with the thought of going out with Count
Garciola in search of rabbits. You must not
suppose that she has been making a practice
of that sort of thing.' ,

I haven't any right to complain in any

case. Whatever she does, lies between her
and you."

"It is a trying position for you, Mr.
Ferrars, but the way you behave in the
matter wins my sympathy, at all events. I
hope Terra will learn to be quite responsive in
the end, and there is no reason that I can
see why she should not. She certainly does
not care about anybody else; but perhaps her
superabundant vitality prevents her heart
from speaking for the moment. At all events,
there is nothing petty or unreliable about
her. If she does say anything, she is so
utterly sincere that you may trust her then
altogether."

For the time beings however, Miss Fildare
seemed in no mood for discussing any of the
questions Ferrars had chiefly at heart. The
evening furnished no opportunities for this.
They only met again in the drawing-room
shortly before dinner, and though Ferrars was
directed to take the young lady in, Count
Garciola, whose arm had been taken by Lady
Margreave, sat on the other side, and the
conversation at that end of the table was
mixed. During the rest of the evening,

after dinner, Terra kept her friend, Miss
Maxwell, by her side. There were other
guests in the house ; some music went on,
some whist, and then there was an adjournment
to the billiard-room, whence the ladies
took their departure to bed finally, while
Ferrars was engaged in the uninteresting
duties of a four-handed game.

Next morning, Ferrars snatched an opportunity,
as people were breaking up from
the breakfast-table, to ask Terra to stroll
round the lake " — a small tarn lying within
the grounds behind the house, and encircled
by a shrubbery. She wavered a little, then
agreed; but last of all a certain Mrs. Appleby,
an elderly lady of the party who had not
heard the arrangement made, was found to besetting
out in search of morning air and
gentle exercise in the same direction, and
went with them, wholly unconscious at first,
at any rate, of being in any way che trop.
The morning would have been fruitless,
from Ferrars' point of view, had not they met
Lady Margreave at the further side of the
lake. She had come round the contrary
way with one of her children, and drew off

Mrs. Appleby, making a suggestion at the
same time that Terra and Ferrars should goon
and give certain directions from her to the
housekeeper at Marton Grange. This was
an old house half a mile off, belonging to Sir
James, and generally let, though for the
moment it was untenanted. The walk
through a small plantation and across a
couple of fields was no great ordeal in itself
on a lovely summer morning ; still Terra
made excuses. Miss Maxwell was waiting
to give her a painting lesson — she had merely
come out for a turn round the lake, and had
promised to be back directly ; so the proposed
walk was not carried out, though, as they
returned to the house, the two elder ladies
went on in front, and Terra found herself
alone with Ferrars for a short time in the
rear. The opportunity was not altogether a
favourable one for entering on serious conversation.


I have a hundred things to say to you,"
Ferrars began, after a few of the precious
moments had been wasted in silence ; " but I
must wait to say them till you can give mea
longer hearing. I am glad to be near you

again, but I must hope to find you more at
leisure some time to explain to you how
glad."

I hate to be driven, " said Miss Fildare.
It was such a glaring thing for Aunt Mary
to want to send us off that way to Marton."

It was meant very kindly to me, and I
am grateful for the intention."

Miss Fildare had merely prepared herself
for the walk by putting on a broad-brimmed
straw hat, and the light-coloured dress of a
pliant, woollen fabric that she wore, though
loosely made, could not disguise the opulent
curves of her magnificent figure. Her firmly
moulded features, richly tinted complexion,
and large steely-blue eyes, of the kind that
have their intensity heightened by a darker
shade of colour round the outer rim of the iris,
with brows and lashes a shade or two darker
than the tawny masses of her hair, drew
Ferrars' earnest gaze upon her as they
walked along ; but she looked up with no
answering smile, and her lover's recollection
of the all-but-decisive tenderness of her look
when they last parted, gave a peculiar
poignancy to the disappointment he felt at

finding her thus out of reach again and more
unconquered than ever.

Nothing of that kind can be wisely done,
at all events," she said in return. " Mr.
Ferrars," looking up at him fearlessly and
frankly — almost fiercely, " I can see you are
of the same mind about me as before. I
don't want to be affected about it, but I do
want you to leave me alone to choose the
time when I will have a serious talk with
you during the next few days. It may be
stupid of me, but if I feel hunted I can't
help turning to bay, as it were. How long
are you going to stop here ?"

"That depends! but I will stop until I have
had that serious talk with you — or, rather,
let me correct that. I am not hunting you ;
I am not going to manoeuvre to catch you
alone ; I will not try to bind you, even by
fixing a time for my stay, to give me the
serious talk you promise, against your inclination
in the end, perhaps. I am of the
same mind about you as before. Let that
be clearly understood ; and understand also,
what in your utter freedom from affectation
and self-consciousness you may hardly realize

always, that I am longing for your companionship—
not merely for one talk, but
for you altogether — with an intensity that is
sometimes almost maddening. But my pride
with you — my only pride that is personal to
myself in my dealing with you — is that I
offer you my great love to take or to leave,
and that whatever way you settle the matter,
I will hold you in my sight, and in that of
the only two people who know of my love
for you, entirely in the right and blameless."

Your behaviour to me is perfect ; unless
for what was, perhaps, the original mistake
of ever noticing me at all. As for me, after
all, though the situation may be trying for
you, I cannot see that I am to blame in anyway."


"You are not. I do not mean that I will
hold you blameless in the sense of screening
you from anybody J s disapproval : I only
mean that I will have the truth in that
matter clearly appear and fully acknowledge
it myself, if there ever comes a time when
there could conceivably be a discussion of
the matter."

"I do not know whether that will be or not.

That is what makes me angry with myself.
Other girls, I fancy, know, when men propose
to them, whether they want to say
Yes ' or ' No.' Perhaps I ought to have
said ' No ' at once, merely because I was
not at once impelled to say ' Yes.' '

That would neither have been fair nor
wise. For you may find it possible to say
Yes Terra, and you may find that beyond
such a ' Yes ' lies happiness. I do not
value myself at any extraordinary rate, and
yet — and I have thought over this for hours
together, and days — I do not see how you
could be unhappy with me, once fairly
started with me. I know the reality of my
love for you — the singleness of intention in
my own character, and its steadfastness in
some things."

"I do feel you are honest and true ;
but "

They had come back now round the lake
to a little rustic bridge leading back on to
the lawn before the principal face of the
house. The two elder ladies had already
crossed this. Terra paused on the bridge
and leaned on the balustrade, as though

looking at the water, so as not to bring their
conversation to an abrupt close by entering
the house.

But what 1"

I do not think what you say quite
follows."

That was not what you had on your
tongue to say a moment ago'

It's quite to the point, at any rate,
Suppose it is not in me to be galvanized,
even by your feeling for me, into any
emotion worth speaking about in return.
Supposing I want something in life" — again
she paused and hesitated — "something
different from love, some other form of excitement
— but if I go on talking of vague
fancies, you will misunderstand me."

It might clear up your own mind to talk.
It is so important to you that you should
understand things and yourself rightly just
now."

Well, I can't go on talking now, at all
events ; though I feel in a way as if it did
me good to be with you. I'm a strange
mixture — we all are, I suppose, one way or
another."

She put her hand lying on the bridge-rail
over towards him as she spoke. They were
too much in view for him to do more than
take it for a moment.

It seems as if I were saying good-bye to
you, though we are staying under the same
roof. But you must do, my Queen, about
this glorious gift of yourself, as you think
fit — when, and how you think fit."

a Thanks ; you are so loyal ! But I don't
mean that we shall not talk together sometimes,
only you must not hunt me."

She looked up with a brighter smile than
she had given him since his arrival the
previous day as she said this ; and then they
went up the lawn and into the house.

VOL. I.

"it cannot be."

If Ferrars may not have been in a position
during the next few days to congratulate
himself as a lover, he had nothing to find
fault with in his treatment at Hatfield as a
guest. The party was large enough to keep
always in activity ; there were plenty of
picturesque places in the neighbourhood to
visit, and adequate means of locomotion in
the stables. Terra generally rode when any
excursion took place, and whether she was
more perfectly splendid in a habit or in an
evening dress, was a question which might
have left room for argument on both sides.

The explanation, such as it was, that had
passed between herself and Ferrars, had
cleared away the embarrassment that had
clouded her manner when he first came.

Her behaviour to him was cheerful and
friendly, though she made no opportunities
for much private conversation. She seemed
to distribute herself fairly amongst the three
or four gentlemen of the party, who were
more or less competing for the lighter
favours of her companionship ; and if Ferrars
may have been conscious of a keener
sense of annoyance when the pursuit of
pleasure — the joyous hunt in which they
were all engaged — threw her with Count
Garciola especially, than when they set her
riding beside or strolling apart with anyone
else at a picnic, a lover's intuition, rather
than any outward evidence of a special feeling
on her part, may have inspired his distrust.
Have you had any private talk with
Terra V Lady Margreave asked him, when
about a week of this sort of life had passed.

They were driving together to the neighbouring
station to meet Mrs. Malcolm, who
had telegraphed a day or two previously to
intimate her wish to come for a few days to
Oatfleld. She was on terms with Lady
Margreave which fully justified her message
: " Am wanting a talk with George.

7—2

Can you take Die in for a few days ?" The
reply had been : " My dear, of course." And
when the day of her arrival had come, Lady
Margreave had asked Ferrars to drive with
her to meet the train.

"A dozen words or so," Ferrars replied,
the first day I came, in the shrubbery ; and,
Lady Margreave, it is coming over me gradually,
and now it seems that speaking to you
on the subject has deepened the impression
that I am not destined to have any private
talk with her of the kind you mean at all.
It is all a very simple transaction in its
externals. Terra does not see her way clear
to give me what I want. She can't do that
to oblige me if she is not impelled to do it
for her own sake, and in the absence of such
an impulse there is simply nothing more to
be said. Then Marian's coming down makes
the thing look settled."

How do you mean ? What has that got
to do with it V

Marian is always drawn to me if I am in
any sort of trouble, and her strange presentiments
warn her of such matters in advance.
You know what Marian is in a measure —

and much better than most people. But
nobody knows her as I do — nobody else has
had the opportunity. All that she calls her
inner life is so sacred to her that she never
gossips about it ; and a great many things
happen to her that she never speaks of to
anyone, except me, at all events. Perhaps
she does not even tell me everything."

I know she is under some sort of mystic
guidance, and has mysterious warning of
future events sometimes — or thinks she has.
I have never tried to make up my mind
what I think about it. She is such an
exquisitely lovable woman, so wise and calm
and dignified. I could not bear to think she
was under delusions of any kind, and yet
that sort of thing is so apt to be a delusion."


That is how I feel, in a way, only more
so, and with a difference. It is not a very
logical position of mind, because in theory I
concur with you that that sort of thing, as
you say, is generally a delusion. But all the
same, I believe in Marian altogether, more
firmly than I believe in anything else in or
out of this world. She's totally unlike anyone

else I ever met or heard about ; and then,
as regards myself, I knoiv she knows, somehow,
by her own inner feelings, in a general
way, whatever I am feeling strongly about,
and whenever anything of importance happens
to me. It is useless for anybody to tell me, or
for me to tell myself, that it is not reasonable.
It has occurred too often for me to doubt the
fact. I shall ask her as soon as we are alone
together whether anything is going to be the
matter, and if she says ' Yes,' I shall know
that Terra has made up her mind not to have
me, just as certainly as if I had had the whole
thing over with her."

Mrs. Malcolm, who duly arrived by the
expected train, was tall, statuesque, and
handsome in a grave and dignified way,
with very regular features, that did not
break frequently into smiles, with dark
brown hair and eyes, a very smooth and rather
pale skin, but slighter movements of her
face than would have been noticeable with
people of more mobile expression would
illuminate it with pleasure or sympathy.
She kissed Lady Margreave, and then her
brother, with tender sincerity, rather than

with effusion. Then the ladies got into the
carriage. George made arrangements about
the luggage, and joined them in a few
minutes.

Lady Margreave knew the house from
which she had just come. Talk about the
people there, and about the party then at
Hatfield, occupied them during the drive.
Nothing was said between the three about
the subject that really preoccupied each the
most. When they got back it was still the
mid-afternoon. Lady Margreave suggested
that Ferrars should take his sister for a turn
in the grounds before her things came from
the railway ; and in this way they all strolled
through the principal hall — itself a large and
habitable room, furnished with sofas and
easy-chairs — and through an archway and
passage beyond, leading to the glass door in
the other face of the house, which gave on a
terrace and the lawn sloping down to the
lake. Ferrars was in advance, and he went
on to open the door, while the ladies stopped
to look at a statue recently added to the
adornments of the mansion at the foot of
the main staircase.

As Ferrars opened the door and passed out,
he saw two persons just crossing the rustic
bridge already spoken of, leading from the
lower end of the lawn into the shrubbery —
Terra Fildare and Count Garciola. They
seemed to have been pausing on the bridge,
which commanded a favourite view of the
lake and grounds. The Count was in the act
of turning aside from the balustrade on
which he had been leaning, and, bending
slightly down to speak to his companion ashe
went, passed a turn in the path with her,
and both of them were concealed from view
by the trees. Then Lady Margreave went
up the staircase, and Mrs. Malcolm joined
her brother.

Come, dear," said George, as he put his
hand through her arm and turned with her to
the right along the terrace, " you are as
welcome as health to a sick man, though I
fear your coming is ominous."

11 Ah !" she said, with an expression of
pain, "if you feel in that way my impressions
may have been an omen."

My feelings, dear Marian, are nothing to
the purpose ; I can only go upon evidences

of a more direct kind. Bat tell roe about
your impressions."

Let us turn off the gravel' said Mrs.
Malcolm, drawing her brother off the terrace
on to the grass, and moving by this change
of direction towards the bridge. " We can
walk round the lake. I have wanted to be
near you, and have been uncertain whether
that sprang from a warning that you had need
of me, or from my own wish to see you and
talk over a matter about which I have need
of you ; but I will tell you of that afterwards.
First, about yourself and Miss Fildare ;
matters are still as they were V

I am not so sure of that. Matters maybe
worse than they were. Terra, you know,
was never bound to me by any promise whatever.
It was I who insisted on leaving
the question open. I merely asked her for
certain things, and begged her to take time
to consider her reply."

You want to shield her from the blame
of playing fast and loose with you."

There is no blame reasonably possible in
the case. She so far deferred to my wish as
to take time to reply ; but it would be most

unfair on my part if I tried to argue that
that crippled her freedom of action."

Have you been talking with her much
about here V Mrs. Malcolm asked as they
came upon the little bridge, pausing and looking
vaguely about.

It is about the only place where I have
talked with her at all seriously since I have
been down here ; but that is a week ago
nearly."

Strange. I had a sort of impression
about her as we came on to the bridge that —
that would not correspond with what you
say at all. George, does she love anyone
else who is here V

As the question was asked, the sight of
the two figures he had just seen pass up the
path they were approaching came with
painful distinctness before Ferrars's fancy.

No one else would imagine it, I believe,"
he said ; " but to me it seems but too possible.
But, dear Marian, it will add to whatever I
may have to suffer if you are the least unjust
to her in thought. Remember, she has the
full right to love whom she pleases."

My poor George, so loyal and true, be at

ease about that. I have a new feeling about
Terra Fildare — a sort of sorrowful compassion
I can hardly describe. I thought I
should come to hate her if she refused you ;
and yet, now that I realize that she has done
this in her heart already, I am only conscious
of an immense pity for her. To have your
fair choice between good and evil, and to
choose evil — that is so sad."

If her choice turns out evil for her,"
George began ; " but I won't be melodramatic.
I can't help loathing the man ;
but even that feeling may be mean. Why
should he not try to win her ?"

Who is he 1"

Count Garciola — a Spaniard. They
passed over this bridge together a few
minutes ago, when you were talking to Lady
Margreave. Let us turn back and go somewhere
else."

They passed here together ! Now I
understand. Poor Terra !"

But have you got any painful presentiments
about her future, Marian V

I know nothing of the man," Mrs.
Malcolm replied ; "I see nothing about him."

Then, after a little hesitation, as they turned
away together and walked in another direction,
Perhaps even he is not specially to blame.
I may only be guided by the feeling that it is
so mad of her to fling away the happiness
she might have had."

Talking with you, Marian," Ferrars said
after a while, " is like thinking to myself. I
can't leave off thinking about it all, or else I
should say, Let us talk of it no more."

Their conversation, however, was disjointed
and broken up by pauses. After a while
Ferrars asked :

But tell me, Marian, what was the
possible need of me that you had in your
mind as another reason for wanting to seeme?"


44 It is not urgent for to-day, dear ; but I
have need of you, and shall appeal to you as
soon as this matter of yours is decided."

14 Do you think it is uncertain ?"

I do not ; but still you must go through
some plain explanations, I suppose. Only I
think you might exact these without delay."

Some further talk followed about the
promise George had given to force no interview

on Miss Fildare, and then of many-other
minor topics, with the major subject
ever and anon corning to the surface. When
they came back to the house — round to the
front again — and returned into the principal
hall, they found a number of people
gathered there, including Terra and the
Count. There was a clatter of voices and
laughter going on round the cage of a
parrot, who had been giving vent to some
general remarks that his admirers had found
entertaining. Terra looked even more
brilliant than usual. This time she was ina
summer shepherdess kind of costume — a
pinkish flavour about it, from rose-coloured
flowers in the pattern, and pink bows at the
throat and elbows, and a looped up skirt.
She was altogether bright, sunny and joyous.
She had been among the busiest with the
parrot, but she left him to greet Mrs.
Malcolm as the brother and sister entered.
The contrast between the two women — both
handsome as they were, both rather tall and
commanding in figure — was very striking,
and they might have been painted, as they
stood together, as symbolical figures of night

and morning. Terra's gaiety was quenched
a little, however, as she took Mrs. Malcolm's
hand — not by any reproachful look she encountered,
but by thoughts which arose as
they met. From Mrs. Malcolm she glanced
at her brother, who said a few commonplace
words to her in an ordinary tone.

"And now," said Lady Margreave, " whoever
can tear themselves from Polly, will
find tea at the end of the gallery. But I
shall go upstairs with you, dear, first " — to
Mrs. Malcolm — " and see that you are
properly provided for."

Mr. Ferrars," said Terra, turning to him
as the group thus dispersed in various
directions, " unless you are absolutely perishing
for want of that tea, you must first come
and see my picture of the old beech-tree.
I finished it this morning, and it is on view
in Lady Margreave's morning-room. I want
your serious and earnest criticism."

The picture of the beech-tree really was
in the room, but neither thought of it as
they went up a side passage and into the
room indicated, which was a little distance
off. When they were alone, she spoke :

IT CANNOT BE. Ill

I am so sorry, Mr. Ferrars, but it can't
be."

I know."

He leaned with his back against the
mantelpiece and his arms outstretched on
each side along the marble slab. She had
come up near to him, with her hands
together in sincere and earnest sympathy
for him. It would have been almost natural
for him to have bent forward to fold her
in a farewell embrace, and the impulse todo
this half asserted itself in action, but he
repressed it and remained still.

11 How do you know \ What do you
mean?

M I suppose in some strange way my love
for you has made me aware of the crisis in
your heart that has settled this matter — to
my bitter sorrow."

Terra's brow contracted, but more in
anxiety than anger, though she began as if
to repudiate the idea that she was to blame
for having caused this sorrow.

How could I help what has happened ?"
Then she checked herself, real regret for the
pain she was giving overmastering the strong

impulse of her nature to assert herself always
in the right. "But I dare say I was to
blame for misunderstanding my own feelings.
I was a fool not to know if a girl does
not feel eager to say ' Yes,' in such a case,
she ought to say ' No ' at once. I see that
now."

That is as it may be," said Ferrars,
quietly enough, though shrinking inwardly
at the suggestion embodied in her words
that a later experience had taught her how
a girl felt when ' Yes ' would be the appropriate
answer. He moved from the mantelpiece
and sat down in a chair close by. " It
seemed best to wait while there was the
faintest chance — and that chance once seemed
near "

I had intended to say so much to you —
to explain things, and to argue that it must
be the best for you in the end to marry
some one unlike me. And now I feel so
sorry. It is like insulting you to say anything,
except, that I am so very sorry, for
your sake, that it cannot be as you wish."

You could not say anything that would
be any good, of course. It is kind of you to

feel so keenly about it ; but nothing you
would say would seem insulting — it would
only be quite in vain. I have been mortally
wounded, Terra, on that side of my nature,
and the rest of my life will be a physical
existence without a soul in it. But that is
fate. I feel earnestly that it is no fault
of yours. That is the only thing that
excuses me for speaking in this way, at the
risk of provoking regret on your part. However,
I would rather, if you will, that you
should think of me as true to my ideal love
for you, and incurable in a loyal sort of way,
whatever happens. It won't amount to anything,
of course ; but I should like to think
that you were absolutely sure, at any time
through life, you could call upon me to do
anything for you that you might want done ;
of course, without any notion of having a
claim upon you, on that account, for reward
or thanks — in a loyal way, I mean. I am
talking awkwardly, but never mind. It
doesn't matter — nothing matters now, in one
way. Do you go abroad V

I must lead a larger, a more exciting
life."

VOL. I. 8

The phrase revealed so much as to the
impulses under which she was acting, and
as to the little security for her happiness
that resided in such a love as that her wilder
aspirations had conjured up, that Ferrars
vividly remembered, as she spoke, his sister s
words about the great compassion Marian
had felt for her instead of resentment. A
sense that she niiodit be sealing; her choice of
an evil destiny in giving way to her craving
for excitement came upon her lover's heart
with the force of a sudden emotion, and almost
overcame his self-control, He paused a
little while before replying, and she fancied
that it was his own pain that was nearly too
much to bear.

Oh, I do hope so earnestly you will find
some one to love less of a savage than I am,
who will make you happy after all."

Spare me that wish, my lost love, and
remember what I have said."

She moved a step back in the direction of
the door. Their conversation was really
over, and there was nothing more to be added.
But she lingered, hardly knowing how to get
away without seeming cruelly abrupt.

Good-bye' she said, putting out her
hand.

Good-bye," he answered, sadly and gently,
getting up from his seat and taking her
hand, " and Heaven shield you !" Then he
put his other arm round her and kissed her
once upon the cheek, she accepting the farewell
caress, as it were, with humility. He
released her at once, and she went away,
slowly closing the door after her.

Ferrars walked to the window, and looked
out and noticed a gardener's assistant at a
little distance, sweeping up fallen leaves and
putting them into a wheelbarrow ; and then
noticed, as a strange psychological fact, that
he had been observing the man as if idly
insouciant. " I know I shall never get over
this," he thought to himself, " and yet I feel
more as if I were tired than anything else.
I can't face those people at tea. I had
better go up to my own room."

He went upstairs with the feeling that
something had happened that he would pay
attention to presently, but with a numbed
sensation of not realizing the truth yet.
The physical craving for tobacco, incident on

8—2

the strain his nerves had gone through,
asserted itself, and he filled and lighted a
pipe. Then, in a few moments, a wave* of
painful emotion passing through his heart
made him throw it aside ; and it struck him
that the small illustration afforded by his
behaviour with the pipe would show how all
occupations and distractions to which he might
turn now in life, would, in the same way,
excite impatient disgust directly afterwards.

A knock came at his door in a few minutes,
and he called " Come in," knowing well who
was there. Nothing but the peculiar relations
existing between Mrs. Malcolm and her
brother — relations altogether transcending
the mere tie of blood, would have justified
her in disturbing him just then, or have
made her presence endurable. As it washer
coming seemed a matter of course.

Shall I tell you now what it was I
wanted you to do for me, George ?" she asked,
without saying a word about the interview
that had just taken place, and sitting down
on a sofa at right angles to the fireplace —
4 'or would you rather I put it off till tomorrow
?"

I'm afraid I'll be too stupid to understand,
dear," he answered ; " or else to-day
and tomorrow are all one."

To-morrow will be worse than to-day,
dear. The after-taste of sorrow is always
the worse ; and she is very attractive. I feel,
as I told you, more sorry for her than angry,
after all. It is not what I expected to feel ;
but I may have absorbed some of your
feeling into my own nature. We could not
feel very differently about this matter, anymore
than about anything else."

"If you had felt very differently, that
would certainly have made the thing worse
for me. How r wise you are, Marian, on my
behalf. I wonder if there is another sister
in the world, w T ho in a case like this would
have had the sagacity not to abuse Terra ?
But then it is not sagacity in the calculating
sense, with you. It is the perfection of true
sympathy."

I suppose that is so, really. Certainly
I am not acting a part in saying w T hat I
do."

I wonder what it w 7 as turned her,
Marian ? She was mine when I parted from

her on going back last to the Hague. Looking
back now, I think I might have won a
promise from her then, that might have
guarded her from this."

If you had," Marian said, " it might
have saved her."

In the completeness of her sympathy, she
was thus capable of even joining him in
blaming himself for the bygone error.

It is useless to look back upon it now ;
and yet, perhaps, if that is really so, there is
one life — mine — perhaps two, wrecked for
want of promptitude and decision at the
right moment, for a single error of judgment ;
and that was, after all, a sort of overstrained
delicacy."

They went on for some time with vague
speculation of this kind. Then, eventually,
Mrs. Malcolm remarked :

I could never get any guidance as to how
you ought to act with Terra, though I tried
so hard to get a hint. I once thought I was
going to have a clue, but it never came."

How do you mean ?"

I talk of this with no one but you,
George ; you understand V

I know, dear," Ferrars answered gravely.
"It is sacred for you, so it is sacred forme,
though the thing itself is quite incomprehensible."


Incomprehensible, but not incredible, I
hope, George."

I believe in you, you know, so absolutely
that I believe through you in anything you
believe in. I wish my feeling about this
were more complete, for both our sakes."

I suppose that is the nearest you can
come to at present. But at all events, you
understand, that my Guardian Angel is as
real to me as any living friend I have — as
real to me as you are. In a sort of way,
more real ; for sometimes I feel very strongly
that to one another in this world we are
masked somehow. When we come to know
each other, in another, better world, we shall
find that we are something different from
what we now imagine. People who truly
love one another will not be disappointed at
the change — quite otherwise, I expect. The
change will be some kind of revelation and
imfolclment of new knowledge about one
another, which will probably be very delight-fill.

But still there will be a change, and for
that reason, two loving people cannot know
one another thoroughly. Now, it seems tome,
as if I already knew my Guardian, as she
is in actual reality in the higher world.
When my turn comes to go there too, I shall
find her there as I know her now ; only instead
of getting mere glimpses of her, I
shall be with her altogether — see her face to
face without any veil between us— as there
is always when I see her now."

Do you mean by a veil the difficulty of
seeing her distinctly ?"

I mean by that what you say, and also
an actual visible veil she seems to wear ; that,
I suppose, is intended to symbolize the
difficulty. Perhaps it is impossible for her
to make her features quite distinct to me
while I am looking at her with the eyes of
the flesh, so she shows herself to me with a
veil. But it is a veil, you must understand,
of the faintest and most diaphanous kind, so
that I seem almost to know her face."

Has she appeared to you often of late V

Several times ; and always with the
same object in view. She wishes me to

become acquainted with the girl I asked you
to find out for me."

I thought you said you had been asking
about my relations with Terra ?" Ferrars
said recurring to the subject nearest his
heart.

M I sought to know about that, of course ;
but without success."

What was the clue you thought yourself
about to obtain ?"

Mrs. Malcolm paused a little, as if in
embarrassment; then she said :

cc I do not understand it, George, and
you must not misunderstand it. I feel
that she could not neglect any promise she
made me. She could not speak idly, and
yet it would seem as if she had not told me
what she wanted to tell. She said, when I
besought her for guidance in the matter
nearest to you, and therefore nearest to me,
that she would give it at the fitting time.
And yet. now, the time for advice in the
matter has altogether gone by. It bewilders
me, for it is my religion, or a part of my
religion, that she cannot err."

George was silent. He would not say

anything to wound his sister's most delicate
susceptibilities ; and yet he felt that in this
matter her spirit guide had mocked her confidence.


At all events," he said, " I have no
misleading advice to complain of; and whatever
I have done wrong, has been done
through my own folly."

Don't dwell on that, George, dear," Mrs.
Malcolm pleaded. " Sooner or later, I shall
come to understand what she meant. It
may be that no good advice was possible —
that what has taken place had to be accomplished.
I do not know — but my Guardian
must know — I have told you this simply
because I will never keep anything from
you ; but you will not let it weaken your
readiness to help me in following her guidance
in the other matter 1"

My dear Marian, whatever you wish me
to do, I will do on that account. I do not
want any other motive."

Well, it must be so for the present. I
w r ant you to come with me, when I go in
search of this girl. I do not know yet why
I particularly want that, except that she

IT CANNOT BE. 123

wishes it. That is enough for me. And for
you — you say you will do what I wish for
my sake."

"It will be easy for me to go anywhere
with you, Marian. There is no one else I
could bear to be with just now. When are
we to go — and where V

I suppose } 7 ou would be glad to go from
here — the sooner the better ¥'

Certainly ; the sooner the better. Tomorrow,
better than the next day ; to-day,
better than tomorrow. But that is impossible,
I fear."

Lady Margreave will understand, and
anyone else will accept any explanation she
chooses to give. Let it be tomorrow. Today,
of course, is impossible. It is getting
to be evening already,"

The dinner-party and the evening afterwards
proved less trying in fact than in
anticipation for the brother and sister. With
care for Ferrars' feelings, Miss Fildare
effaced herself as much as possible ; was
taken in to dinner by an entirely neutral
guest, spoke scarcely at all with Count
Garciola, who was allotted to Miss Maxwell

at table, and monopolised by that young
lady as far as possible afterwards.

Ferrars went into the billiard room after
dinner. Lady Margreave, who had been
apprised by Mrs. Malcolm of what had occurred,
avoided any of the kindly devices
she had been hitherto employing to throw
Terra and Mr. Ferrars together, and the
evening wore away.

By the connivance of their hostess, the
brother and sister slipped off quietly the
following morning to the station, and no one
noticed their departure. Ferrars had no
other leave-taking with Terra than that
which had already taken place in the morning-room.


ONE UNION ACCOMPLISHED.

About a week after Mrs. Malcolm and
Ferrars left Oatfleld, Edith Kinseyle, as she
sat at breakfast with her father and Miss
Barkley, received a letter from a country
neighbour, Mrs. Graham-Lee. Her acquaintance
with this lady was so slight, that she
began to make surprised comments as she
read the letter.

Papa, dear, have you, oh ! have you been
paying marked attentions to Mrs. Graham-lee
? Why does she suddenly want to come
and see me ? Why does she thirst to visit
Kinseyle Court ? She cannot expect to find
a fox there in July. Why does she want to
introduce her friends to ' the intellectual lion
of the neighbourhood V Can }^ou really
imagine that Mrs. Graham - Lee knows
Arabic from Choctaw ?"

And who is Mrs. Graham-Lee, Birdie ?
and what does she want ?"

Oh, Papa ! what dreadful dissimulation.
She is coming to Compton Wood to call, and it
can't be for me, for she barely knows I exist,
and probably thinks of me as aged five. She
must have designs upon your heart. It
might be a very suitable match, Papa. She
belongs to hugely rich people in New York,
but is quite settled now in England ; Midhamptonshire
property — and a blooming
widow of forty. But you w T ould have to
hunt at least three times a week."

Is there such a person, Miss Barkley V 1
asked Mr. Kinseyle. Edith's bright spirits
made the sunshine of Compton Wood, and
her father always played up willingly to her
badinage when they were together. " Or
has Edith invented her V

Poor Papa! I am afraid you must be far
gone. The disguise is too thin. But what's
this she says at the end ? ' My friend, Mrs.
Malcolm, is a stranger to you ; but her
brother, who is with her and staying with
me for a few days, says he has had the

honour of a very informal presentation to
you already. His name is Ferrars.' '

Miss Edith was caught in her own trap as
she read out the conclusion of the note.
The name was instantly recognised by both
ladies ; and even Mr. Kinseyle, though no
close observer, caught the inflection of surprise
in Edith's voice.

So, then," he remarked, though more in
the tone of the previous banter than as
taking the matter seriously, " Birdie appears
to understand everything as soon as a gentleman's
name is mentioned. And who is Mr.
Ferrars ? I hope he is well connected, and
with property in Midhampton shire."

My acquaintance with Mr. Ferrars,
Papa V — Edith began as in exculpation ; but
then the humour of the situation caught her
fancy, and she finished the sentence in a
tone of mock complacency, " is very satisfactory,
so far. I really don't know that he
has a fault."

Goodness, Edith !" began Miss Barkley,
« w hy "

"My dear B., I am convinced that you
know nothing against Mr. Ferrars either,

and you know him much better even
than I."

And who is Mr. Ferrars, Birdie ? Who
does he belong to, and what is he like ?"

Let us be systematic, Papa. I can't
answer all those questions at once. What is he
like ? Let us deal with that first. Describe
him, B. ; you know him best, as I have said."

"Oh, I don't know. He is just an ordinary
gentlemanly kind of young man."

"Just an ordinary young man! Why, I
assure you, Papa, the only time we were all
three together, B. fairly monopolised him.
I could not get in a single word. And
I, who was simply out of it, can tell
you more than that. Mr. Ferrars is a
reasonably tall young man, with an unmistakable
flavour of good society. Thick
brown hair, coming forward and rather
heavy, don't you know, at the top of the
forehead ; short beard and moustache — not a
a great straggling bunch, but neat and
curly" (making appropriate gestures with
her fingers round her own rose red lips
and dimpled, rounded chin), " very bright
brown eyes, and a quick impulsive sort of

manner. Apt to be carried away by his
feelings, I should think, as B. can tell you,
no doubt, better than I."

I will tell the story my way, if you like,
Mr. Kinseyle," said Miss Barkley, making
a conscientious professional protest against
all these insinuations, but aware that submission
to Edith's statements, as also to her
will in all things, was her first practical rule
of behaviour.

Birdie seems to know all about the
matter," said Mr. Kinseyle. " And who is
he, besides being ¥

11 Besides being an ornament to society.
Ah, now I can tell no more. We must refer
to B."

"But how does Miss Barkley know anything
about him. Isn't he some one you have
met with the Miltenhams V

Miss Kinseyle kept up the mystification as
long as it afforded her amusement, and then
brushed it all lightly away.

We don't either of us know Mr. Ferrars
at all, Papa, dear. That is the whole explanation
of the affair. But he and another
gentleman with him were visitors to Kin-vol.

i. 9

style Court one day we were there, and they
were presented to us — if by anybody — by
Mr. Squires. It was so recently that I
happened to remember the name."

Mr. Kinseyle was not given to imagining
complications that were not pressed on his
attention, and hardly remembered the letter
of the morning when the afternoon brought
the expected guests. Edith and Miss Barkley
watched for their arrival from a little arbour
near the house, under two or three tall
trees beside the miniature lawn, which
commanded a view of the drive. Mrs.
Graham-Lee, a prosperous widow of American
origin, fond of society and horseflesh,
drove up with her guests about four
o'clock in a comfortable landau, and then Miss
Kinseyle, attended by her maid-dishonour,
went to meet them in the drawing-room.

I have been longing to have Mrs. Malcolm
come and stay with me for ever so
long," said the voluble widow, " and here
she has dropped into my arms at last, like
ripe fruit, of her own accord. Didn't know
she could come a fortnight ago, but now
she's here I want to show her all the charms

of the neighbourhood, so of course I have
brought her to see you, Miss Kinseyle. I
wonder would your father come over and
bring you to dine with us one evening ? We
must talk about that seriously before we part.
But, do you know, my dear, it is perfectly
appalling how time flies. I doubt if you were
born when I was first brought to Midhamptonshire,
and here you are looking like a
young Queen already. Doesn't she look like
a young Queen, Mrs. Malcolm ?" and then,
before the other lady had time to reply, she
rattled on with other talk about the Milt en -
hams, in whose care in London she had last
seen Edith, and so on.

Edith and Mrs. Malcolm had been gazing
at one another, meanwhile, with eager interest
on both sides. Edith had previously been
thinking more of Mr. Ferrars as the central
personage of the afternoon, and less of him
on his own account than as a possible link of
renewed communication with his friend ; but
though on the first entrance of the callers he
had been formally presented, as well as Mrs.
Malcolm, it was to the lady's face that Edith
felt her gaze attracted as if by some powerful

9—2

influence ; and while Mrs. Graham-Lee kept
up her stream of chatter, she remained with
her eyes fixed on those of her, so far, silent
visitor.

It is a great pleasure to me to meet
you," said Mrs. Malcolm at the first opportunity,
and the tones of her voice — always
sweet, dignified and impressive — imparted
a peculiar thrill to Edith's delicately sensitive
nerves. A sense of eager curiosity
took possession of her, and it was with more
earnestness than the occasion seemed to claim
that, when Mrs. Malcolm finished her sentence
by adding, " I have heard of you before
to-day," she asked:

From whom ? Where did you hear of
me r

I am sure we must have many mutual
friends," replied Mrs. Malcolm, " besides my
brother, you know," she said with a smile —
if he may be reckoned one."

"You are none the worse for . . . your
adventures of the evening when I first had
the pleasure of meeting you ?" asked Ferrars.

Mrs. Graham-Lee was engaged in telling
Miss Barkley some facts connected with her

early life in New York, to which she had
passed, by a rapid transition, from noticing
the peculiar position of independence in which
the circumstances of her life had placed Edith,
and the other three were together.

"Much the better for them, thank you.
By-the-bye, did you think me quite insane
when you saw me in the moonlight that
evening, or only having a fit? But poor
Squires was dreadfully disappointed at not
seeing either you or your friend again the
following day. He thought you were burning
with impatience to explore Kinseyle
Court from the roof to the cellars, and you
never came back at all."

Ferrars answered with lightly-worded
apologies. They grouped themselves about

the room — Mrs. Malcolm and Edith side bv

»/

side on a sofa, the others slightly separated ;
but the room was too small to allow of any
confidential talk. Eventually a movement
to the garden, suggested by Mrs. Malcolm,
and then Mr. Kinseyle's appearance on the
scene, afforded an opportunity for a little
dispersion. Mrs. Malcolm and Edith moved
away, apart from the others.

I cannot explain to you all at once, Miss
Kinseyle, how interesting it is to me to make
your acquaintance. But you, I am sure, will
understand what it is to be guided in one's
action by a higher influence."

The words were not very explicit, but
Edith's intuitions were quick. And it
was one of her sweetest peculiarities, that
though her manner was generally bright and
vivacious, it responded instantly to a serious
appeal when this touched her inner and more
exalted nature. It was with a sweet and
earnest gravity, in tune with Mrs. Malcolm's
allusion, that she replied :

I know what it is to feel a higher influence.
I can see that you will be able to
understand me. What a delight ! This
accounts for the extraordinary effect you
have had upon me from the first moment I
looked at you. And this, then, is the vindication
of Mr. , of the prophecy made by

your brother's friend. "

My brother's friend % Oh, the gentleman
who was with him when he first saw you —
Mr. Marston."

"Yes, that was the name. He told me

much that was very interesting in the short
conversation I had with him. Do you know
him?"

Poor Mr. Marston ? Yes, I know him.
I forgot he had been with my brother when
you met."

Why do you call him poor ?"

"He has had unusual troubles in life,
which have saddened him greatly. He is
almost a recluse, but much attached to
George."

Miss Kinseyle waited to hear more, but
Mrs. Malcolm was not communicative on this
topic, and the young lady was shy of pressing
for further information. Mrs. Malcolm, on
the other hand, questioned her.

But what was the prophecy you spoke of
that Mr. Marston ventured upon V

That I should very soon meet people who
would understand my inner life and visions,
and explain them to me. You seem to have
come by appointment with destiny."

We shall understand one another, and I
shall not be the one to enjoy that the least.
We have not time to exchange many words
yet, but an exchange of sympathy between

us may be instantaneous, for we both have
some attributes, I suspect, in common."

Oh, it is so intensely interesting to meet
some one who can explain what only bewilders
me, though it is so glorious. Do you also
see T

She hesitated how to finish the sentence,
but Mrs. Malcolm accepted it as it stood.

Yes, I also see ; but I am too deeply
filled with rapture when that happens to seek
any other explanation than my perfect faith
supplies."

But you have had more experience than
I. Can I do anything to assist — her — to
show herself to me again ? Shall you be able
to tell me what happens to you ?"

Yes ; I shall be able to tell you as I can
tell no one else — not even my brother; for
though he sympathizes with me perfectly,
and believes in me perfectly, he does not
realize what I tell him by the light of his
own experience, as you will be able to do."

Tell me, what is the vision that you
see r

An exquisite spiritual being whom I call
and think of as my Guardian Angel. I do not

mean to assert anything about her by calling
her that ; I only know that she comes to me
from time to time, and especially at difficult
crises of my life, and that her influence and
guidance are always for good, and that her
presence always strengthens and refreshes
me."

It is like the Countess with me."

The Countess T

I think of her as that. There was an
ancestress of our family who lived in the room
where I have best seen my glorious vision,
and where I seem drawn always by a sort
of sweet fascination. I don't know, but
it always seems to me the spirit of the
Countess."

How does she seem to say about that ?
Have you made an effort to know V

What a revelation it is about you — the
mere way you put the question! I know
what you mean by ' seems to say.' I could
not tell you what her words were, or if there
were any, but it has seemed to me that she
approved when I have felt sure she was the
Countess. '*'

We shall have so much to recognise in

one another's experience, I can see. And
does the emotion envelope you ? You know
what I mean."

Of course I do ; and it is just that. One
seems to be bathed in a kind of ecstasy that
is like no other feeling imaginable. Don't
you remember the effect for days afterwards
?"

I never forget it. I am always longing
for it ; but you feel it as it were for days
afterwards, before it quite disappears. And
don't you find that it is always right to do as
she tells you V

"I don't know," replied Edith, "that she
has ever told me to do anything definite, that
I could understand. You know, it is only
quite lately that I have seen her distinctly
when I have been awake. Before that, and
since, I constantly dream about her. and
indeed it seems to me sometimes as if it was
not a dream at all while it is going on ; but
then I wake after it is over, as if it had been.
That puzzles me."

But she does not talk to you in definite
words ?"

I think she does at the time, but it seems

as if I had forgotten afterwards. That annoys
fine excessively. But when I saw her in the
library at Kinseyle Court, there was one
thing she said that I remember : ' You will
soon know more I do not know what it
refers to, and most of the time I was simply
enraptured at the sight of her, and did not
seem as if I had sense to say anything or ask
any questions."

"you will soon know more " repeated Mrs.
Malcolm reflectively. "Yes; that hinges
perfectly on what has been said to me : but
I do not know yet exactly how the promise
is to be fulfilled, though it must be that I am
appointed in some way to aid in its fulfilment."


Do you mean, then, that what you have
been having, relates to me in any way T

It relates to you in the most urgent and
emphatic way. If I had found you less prepared,
I should have hesitated to say that at
once ; but you are evidently prepared for anything
— prepared to understand everything, I
mean — that I have to tell. For some time
past, all the guidance I have received has
been directed to this meeting with you. I

have been told to find you out, and communicate
with you, and since, as you well
understand, my Guardian never gave me your
name and address as a living person would —
or rather as a person living in the flesh would
have done — I have had no little trouble, I
assure you, in obeying her injunction."

11 Of course ; I see. I was the object of
your brother's quest when he first came to
this neighbourhood ?"

Exactly."

But what do you think the Spirit, your
Guardian, wishes me to do ?"

I have not any idea as yet. My feeling
has rather been that I am required to render
you some service, but what that is I do not
yet understand. The explanation will come
now, I have no doubt. So far I have been
able to carry out my first orders."

And your next are to clear my vision by
working with me. What ! I beg your pardon
for putting the idea in that way. It sounds
very absurd for me to say what your orders
are. I spoke without thinking."

"My dearest child, you spoke under some
sort of direction perhaps, without knowing

it. If you did not deliberately frame the
sentence in that way, that is all the more
likely. I am more than willing to work with
you. That is it, to begin with, at all events,
of course. For some reason, your senses,
beautiful and delicate as they are, are not
fully awake. Your own Guardian cannot
direct them freely. I have been longer
under this sort of influence than you have
yet, and contact with me may have some
magnetic effect upon you ; that will clear
your vision in the way you say."

They had been walking up and down a
long, straight path, running past the back of
the house and along the lawn which lay atone
side. They came just at this time
within calling distance of the others, who
were gathered round the arbour, and some
seats out on the grass at the further end ;
and Mrs. Lee broke into their conversation
with an inquiry about the next proceedings
contemplated.

How about our visit to Kinseyle Court,
Mrs. Malcolm % Would you like to go ; and
would Miss Kinseyle like to come with us V

Miss Kinseyle at once fell back into her

usual bright, every-day manner, declared
herself delighted, and was shortly afterwards
carried off in the landau, Mrs. Graham-Lee
going security for her safe restoration to
Compton Wood. She sat beside Ferrars on
the front seat of the carriage, and for politeness'
sake he did his best to talk to her as
they went along, though the scenes he had
gone through at Hatfield had left effects on
him which made even the grace and beauty
of his companion a mere circumstance of the
moment, that failed in any way to thrill his
emotions. It was with a sober, brotherly
courtesy, rather than the spirit of incipient
gallantry which generally warms a man's
behaviour to an interesting girl, that he
asked her now about the evening on which
he had first seen her. Edith was not eager
to go into details, with the double check of
Mrs. Malcolm's and Mrs. Lee's presence to
restrain her, but was answering some of
Ferrars's questions with vague and almost
evasive replies, when Mrs. Lee herself
supplied the antidote to the embarrassment
of her presence by pouring forth an account
of some curious experiences of her own.

These merely had to do with a dream that
was verified; but the voluble widow was
deeply impressed by the circumstance, and
claimed the fullest attention of her companions
for all its details. The conversation
arising out of this narrative filled up the
time the drive lasted.

"I could have wished," Mrs. Malcolm said
to Edith, on their arrival at the Court, as
they stood aside for a moment together in the
hall, " that we had come here by ourselves ;
but we must hope to do that some other
time."

Perhaps I could just show you the place
where I saw her, while the others are looking
at the museum T

A room at the Court which contained an
accumulation of Roman stones, together with
banners and weapons of the Middle Ages,
bore this title, and was supposed to be one of
the principal features of interest about the
place for visitors.

This arrangement was effected after a
while. The museum was on the other side
of the hall from the library, and opened into
the principal drawing-room of the stately

old mansion, whose faded glories of gold and
amber brocade greatly caught the fancy of
the American lady. She lay back in the
corner of an old sofa that commanded a view
of a knight in full armour, or, rather, of the
full armour without the knight, through the
open doors of the museum, and of the rather
neglected but still beautiful grounds through
the drawing-room windows, and discoursed
on the relative merits of American energy
and English picturesqueness. Mrs. Malcolm
and Edith, who had not followed her into
the drawing-room, retreated at this juncture,
leaving Ferrars to play listener, and made
their way to the library.

It was just here I have seen her," Edith
explained, setting open the door of the
Countess's room, and standing before it on
the slightly lower level of the library. " It
was later than this, however ; dusk, and the
moon was shining. And she stood, the time
I saw her plainly, just here ;" and Edith
went up the two steps and stood for a little
while in the doorway. " Come in here for
awhile, Mrs. Malcolm. I used to sit here,
mostly, in the window-seat and read ; and it

was here, indeed, that I first fancied I saw
something, and got the idea it was the
Countess's spirit. Poor Miss Barkley was so
terrified when I told her !'

People are always terrified about spiritual
appearances, if they have no natural psychic
affinities in their nature ; and to them it is
amazing that we are not." Then after a
little time spent in further talk and in looking
about the room, Mrs. Malcolm said : " What
do you think ? Might it be possible we
should get some sin if we stood together
where you last saw her ?"

Let us try I" replied Edith eagerly, and
they went back into the library.

Edith" pushed a small couch into a convenient
position, and they sat down on this
side by side. By an impulse, to which
Edith quickly responded, Mrs. Malcolm
took one of her hands and held it on her lap,
and put her other arm round her. They sat
so undisturbed for some ten minutes, but
were not rewarded by any manifestation.
Then they heard the cheerful voice of Mrs.
Lee approaching, and got up.

Do you know," Edith said, " I could

VOL. I. 10

imagine some influence comes into me from
you ? It is very slight, but I can feel a
something different in this arm that you
have been holding the hand of, from the
other."

I do not think I am magnetic " Mrs.
Malcolm answered. " I am in the habit of
thinking of myself rather as sensitive to
magnetism than productive of it ; my brother
is for me the magnetic battery at which I
refresh myself sometimes. By-the-bye, that
is an idea. If he were to mesmerise you
here on the scene of your former vision, that
might enable you to see."

I shall be very glad."

I would rather w r e had been alone ; still,
Mrs. Lee will not interfere with us, really ;
especially if I explain to her."

Mrs. Lee and Ferrars coming in just then
interrupted them. After a little interval of
general talk as they looked about the library,
the couples were rearranged, and Ferrars was
left with Edith in the Countess's room.

You ought to have a web here and a
looking-glass. When I told the people I
was on my way to see, when I was last hereof

the adventure I had had on my way, they
spoke of you as the Lady of Shalott, and I
have thought of you by that title ever since."

But I do not in the least feel so sentimental
as Elaine. I think she made the
greatest possible mistake. There was not
enough to die for in her case."

11 Don't you think love enough to die for ?
But in truth," added Ferrars, hurrying on as
if to deprecate a direct answer to his question,
" I do not see that it is, or can be, for a
woman. Perhaps the knights are to blame,
and they have gone off frightfully since
Xing Arthur's days. Certainly I cannot
imagine a nineteenth century lover worth
dying for !"

And still less a nineteenth century young
lady."

C'est selon."

He uttered the phrase with a half sad, half
contemptuous intonation, and not with the
implication that might have turned it into a
compliment.

Edith said :

You put it very nicely ; but I am afraid
the nineteenth century young lady is too

10—2

painfully sensible, for the most part, to be
very sentimental : or, in other words, she is
too selfish and small to be capable of Elaine's
beautiful folly. If she is sometimes idealized
by her lover, the colour all comes from his
own imagination."

And sometimes she absorbs the colour, it
may be, and becomes what her lover has
made her in his fancy. Sometimes, of
course, she does not — for various reasons."

That is a pretty idea ; though you put a
bitter end to it. It would be the magnetism
of love that fructifies in the heart."

Or fails to r

Or may never be developed. I do not
suppose all the knights are magnetic now,
any more than in Elaine's time."

So much the better for them, perhaps ;
the ordinary destinies of people in our time
do not match well with emotions of romantic
intensity."

Mrs. Malcolm and Mrs. Lee here came up
into the inner room.

George," said Mrs. Malcolm, " I want
you to see if you can put Miss Kinseyle into
a mesmeric sleep. Here, in this old room

that she is fond of, the results might be
especially interesting."

If Miss Kinseyle would like me to try,
of course," said Ferrars, rather taken by
surprise. "But I do not think much of my
powers that way, you know."

You can influence me ; and it might bethe
same with her. Indeed, I feel almost
sure it might be."

Mrs. Lee was deeply interested, and
arranged herself in a commanding position
to observe what took place.

Miss Kinseyle was made comfortable in
the large old velvet armchair, and as this
was too. low in the back for her to rest her
head, Mrs. Malcolm sat just beside and
partly behind, with her arm extended so that
Edith could lean her head against her
shoulder. Ferrars held her hands for a little
while, laid his own on her forehead, and
made passes for some time, but without any
startling effect.

It does not make me feel sleepy," said
Miss Kinseyle ; " though it makes me feel
odd ; somehow, I get impressions of a curious
kind."

Can you describe them at all V Mrs.
Malcolm asked after a little pause, during*
which Edith frowned with the effort to
understand something that was perplexing
her.

That is just the difficulty. There is a
man and a woman in the matter somehow.
I don't see them, you know ; but the idea of
them comes before me, as if of people I
have seen some time or other in reality. It
seems to me that they are quarrelling.
There is such an atmosphere of anger about
the whole feeling — as if the woman reproaches
the man bitterly, and then turns
and rushes away from him."

What are they like to look at ?"

The woman or the girl is tall, with red
gold hair low on her forehead — massive —
altogether like marble."

The description gave a simultaneous thrill
of excitement both to Ferrars and his sister.

What is the man like V asked Ferrars.

"Dark— very dark. That's all I feel
about him. Black as night. Does it all
mean anything to you % I don't understand
it in the least."

"It is very bewildering," Ferrars replied.
u It might mean something. At least, I can
partly identify the people you speak of.
But you do not tell us much about them."

11 1 have nothing to tell, I am afraid,
unless it is two or three words. And I
don't know how those came into my head."

11 What are they ?"

As I tell you, it may be the merest nonsense.
I don't know why I thought of those
words in connection with the woman; but
the words were : ■ George, George ! how
can you ever forgive me ¥ "

Ferrars had desisted from all farther
mesmeric attempts during the conversation,
and sat down now on the edge of the table,
saying nothing, but puzzled as well as
excited. Mrs. Malcolm looked disturbed and
annoyed.

It is no use to go on at present," she
said. " There seems to be some cross influence
at work. This was not at all the
kind of result I was hoping for."

Well," Mrs. Lee frankly observed,
11 there isn't much result of any sort about
that. Won't she mesmerise ?"

"It is only with my sister that I am any
good at that sort of thing," Ferrars remarked.
" We ought to have Sidney Marston
here. He really can mesmerise people,
I fancy ; and he knows all about such
matters."

He seemed to me to know a great deal,"
Miss Kinseyle promptly added. " It would
be very interesting for him to try. But
then he is not at hand, unfortunately."

Mrs. Malcolm got up with a little sigh,
making no other remark.

"Who's Sidney Marston?" asked Mrs.
Lee. " I don't know him, do I V

Very likely not," Ferrars answered ;
but I don't know anybody better worth
knowing. He has all sorts of knowledge,
and all sorts of good qualities. I look upon
him as my greatest friend. But he's a great
recluse."

What's the matter with him % Has he
got a history V asked Mrs. Lee.

Well, for one thing," answered Ferrars,
he is very keen upon occult studies of all
sorts. Belongs to some queer societies in
London that keep themselves desperately

secret. I never press him for reasons about
anything."

Mrs. Lee now suggested that they had
better be going home, and they went out to
the carriage.

Ferrars was preoccupied and thoughtful
during the drive back to Compton Wood.
Edith and Mrs. Malcolm said little to one
another, but this little showed them to be
both revolving means for another speedy
meeting.

Could Mrs. Lee spare you to spend a long
evening: with me ?" Edith asked. " I want
to talk to you about so many things."

'mrs. Lee," said that lady herself, "is no
tyrant, and lets her guests do whatever they
like. But if you can, come over to Hilton,
my dear, with your father or by yourself, at
any time. If you let me know half an hour
before dinner, so much the better, and if
that isn't convenient, come without warning."

Miss Kinseyle expressed appropriate gratitude,
but was bent for the moment on
having Mrs. Malcolm as her own guest.

Of course, we shall be delighted if Mr.
Ferrars will come too," she added.

Mrs. Lee's good-nature proved equal to
the supply of a carriage for the expedition,
and it was arranged for the following night
but one, some dinner arrangements having
been already made at Highton for the
following evening, which Mrs. Malcolm was
reluctant to throw out.

Edith guaranteed her father's cordial endorsement
of any invitations she might give,
and, loftily assuring Mrs. Malcolm that it
was quite unnecessary for her to refer the
matter to him in the first instance, bade her
new friends good-bye at the door of her own
home with the usual queenly air that so well
became her.

I SUPPOSE SHE IS BEAUTIFUL."

4t She's a perfectly charming girl !" Mrs. Lee
said as they drove off, " even though she
wouldn't mesmerise."

She would mesmerise fast enough with a
better man to manage her, I have no doubt,"
Ferrars pointed out. " I dare say Marston
could put her off in five minutes."

Why don't you send for him? Where
is he r

(i In town, no doubt. He rarely goes
away anywhere. But I don't know that he
could come. Besides "

Ferrars looked inquiringly at his sister,
without finishing the sentence.

It is very kind of you, Mrs. Lee," Mrs.
Malcolm said. " But — Mr. Marston is a
friend of ours, certainly — but it would seem

rather abrupt, would it not, if you do not
know him V

I don't know. I carry my rough American
ways with me all about your English
society, and I find they answer just as well
as at home. The man's a gentleman — isn't
he?"

Most assuredly !"

And a friend of yours. What more
is wanted ? Telegraph and tell him we shall
be delighted to see him, and that he is
wanted at once to mesmerise a charming
young lady. That ought to fetch him."

"Perhaps George might succeed on a second
attempt," Mrs. Malcolm suggested, rather
fencing with the proposal thus forced upon her.

Oh, stuff and nonsense, my dear ! You
all say the other man understands the business.
"Why not have him down and try ?
Unless ' George ' likes trying so much that
he won't be turned off."

George," said that gentleman himself,
is just in the hands of you ladies, to be
done with as you think fit ; but personally,
he thinks he is no good as a mesmerist."

Well," Mrs. Malcolm was driven to concede,

M I will telegraph to Mr. Marston in the
morning, if we are all of the same mind then."

The brother and sister had some talk
together in private when they got back to
the house, before dressing for dinner.

If you feel so sure about her psychic
powers," Ferrars argued, " they cannot have
been random words she uttered. Besides,
though the few words of description she
gave would not have meant much to anybody
else, they corresponded so exactly."

I suppose your mind was filled with
Terra's impose at the time," Mrs. Malcolm
said a little sadly. "She may have caught
a clairvoyant impression of her from your
thought. ' As for what was said, that seems
to me unintelligible."

Unless the impression were correct. Unless
there has been a quarrel !"

Mrs. Malcolm shook her head.

That is the sad part of what has occurred.
It unsettles your mind ; but I
should know if anything had occurred. Lady
Margreave has promised to keep me informed
of everything that passes. She would
be sure to let me know if anything so

important as a quarrel had taken place. It
is no use worrying you with news from day
to day. You will trust my judgment to tell
you at once if anything requires to be told,
will you not, George V

All right, dear; of course."

There has been no quarrel — nothing in
the remotest degree resembling one. It is
a mere guess of mine ; but the ' atmosphere
of anger' she spoke of may have arisen in
some way from the contact of the two
auras — yours and his — as your thought
brought her perceptions into relation with
him. I would not dwell upon it."

There could be no harm," began Ferrars,
after a little musing. " But no ; never mind.
I will leave the thing as you suggest. It is
the worst of clairvoyant information, that,
wonderful as it often is, one never feels that
it is quite trustworthy to act upon."

Does not that depend upon the kind of
action there is to take ? Has it not guided
me rightly to Miss Kinseyle ? Perhaps —
you will not misunderstand what I say as
implying want of sympathy — perhaps, it is
only trustworthy when we have no selfish

interests at all involved. Our own desires,
however harmless in themselves, may be
such a confusing medium. I am sure my
Guardian is telling us what is best for Edith.
I feel as if she were my sister, and love her
as such. We are sisters, I am sure, by our
higher natures, in some way."

She is a very sweet and deeply interesting
girl. I should be glad to look upon her
as a sister, too, most assuredly."

I am glad of that, and I should have
been still more glad if your influence with
her could have been more decisive. It
would have been good for you to have been
serviceable to her, and I have a strong
impression that it is mesmerism she wants to
developed her powers. I still think, if you
went on thing "

u It is just a matter, I fear, in which trying
is no good if you haven't got it in you."

'•' It is so embarrassing, bringing poor
Sidney Marston on the scene, not to speak
of my own wishes."

"But do you think he will come? He
will get you out of the difficulty by giving
some excuse, you will find."

I think that, too ; but there is a want of
straightforwardness about sending him an
invitation, and hoping all the time he will
decline it."

If he does not mind coming, I do not
know why we should, under the circumstances.
5,

There is a want of straightforwardness
about it, and Mrs. Lee might not like to
have him if she knew. Poor, dear fellow !"

Dear old Sidney ! It's awfully hard upon
him."

I suppose he must be judge of the matter
for himself. I will tell him all about how
the difficulty has arisen ; though it will seem
like suggesting that he should not come, and
that is cruel."

Mrs. Malcolm's brow was a little clouded
during the evening by the pressure of the
situation, but in the morning all anxiety
seemed to have been swept away. She made
an early opportunity of saying a few words
to Ferrars apart.

I have no doubt any more what to do
about Sidney Marston. I asked for help last
night, and got it. I am to ask him to come."

So the telegram was sent as Mrs. Lee had
desired, and Mrs. Malcolm passed the invitation
on with the straightforward simplicity
with which it was given.

Miss Kinseyle had not unduly swaggered
concerning her authority in the Compton
Wood household, when she had invited her
new friends to dinner.

Papa dear," she said, going into her
fathers study — which was something she
graciously forbore from doing during mid
working hours — but when she returned from
Kinseyle Court it was near their dinner time,
and she knew that if Mr. Kinseyle had not
left off writing, he ought to be warned todo
so. "Papa dear, I simply adore Mrs.
Malcolm, and she is going to bless this roof
by dining with us the day after tomorrow. "

Goodness, Birdie, but when have we got
to have dinner then ?"

At our usual time, Papa. Do not be
afraid I would take a mean advantage of
you in that way."

"And does Mrs. Malcolm simply adore
you, that she does such an unheard-of thing

vol. i. 11

as dine at half-past five for the sake of your
company V

She worships me, Papa dear — but really
it is not a thing to joke about. It is not a
sudden fancy we have taken to one another,
it is a mutual discovery we have made about
one another. We are of the same kind. Weare
natural sisters. She can see, also, such
things as I see sometimes."

Mr. Kihseyle was never prone to talk much
with his daughter on topics of this kind. He
was never quite easy about the-effect that
would be wrought on her mind if she were
encouraged to dwell on her abnormal experiences,
and he never put an entire faith in
their reality, though he dealt with them
politely, gently, and with a broad spirit of intelligence,
treating the question as to whether
Edith might or might not be subject to
some poetic kind of hallucination, as a problem
that he was not so far in a position to decide
either way. He was greatly struck in reality
by the statement Edith now made, that she
was suddenly in a position to bring up a witness
to the truth of her view of the subject ;
but he was a quiet reflective man, who made

no immediate sign of excitement when assailed
by a new idea, and he merely now looked into
his inkstand with interest, his head slightly
on one side, and said, after a little interval,
that it was curious ; he would like to talk to
Mrs. Malcolm about it.

You shall have an opportunity the day
after tomorrow — owing, you see, to my careful
forethought."

When Mrs. Malcolm and her brother came
at the appointed time, there had been an
interchange of telegrams between Mr.
Marston and his friends at Highton. He
had declined the invitation to Mrs. Lee's
hospitable roof, but had declared himself in
readiness to come down, as before, to the inn
at Thracebridge for one night, and meet Miss
Kinseyle at the old house at any time that
might be appointed, when a trial could be
made to see if his magnetic powers would be
of any service to her. If so, they should beat
her disposition.

But what a singular arrangement," Miss
Kinseyle remarked. "Why should he prefer
to stop at a horrid little inn. instead of going
to comfortable quarters at Highton V

11—2

Don't press me, dear, for an explanation
of his motives," Mrs. Malcolm urged. " I
think he does wisely and rightly, but T cannot
explain without breaking confidence I have
no right to interfere with. Will you trust
me in this matter % She has approved. I
saw her the night after I was with you last.
He is the last man to make mysteries that
can be avoided, but he is resolute about not
going into general society. I am only surprised
that he should have consented to comedown
at all."

But how am T to get any good out of
Mr. Marston's ministrations, if he can only
come down for one evening \ That does
not seem likely to lead to very much, does
it?"

11 1 have formed a little plan of my own
about that," Mrs. Malcolm answered. " If
there seems reason to expect good for you
from Mr. Marston's influence, I wonder would
your father spare you to come to me for a
little visit at Richmond. There Mr. Marston
could come out to us as often as we wished,
and it would be delightful to me to have you
with me,"

Edith declared it would be a heavenly
arrangement. She was promised, she said,
to the Miltenhams for some time in August.
They were away from home just then, but
were returning to Deerbury Park the following
month. If a visit to Mrs. Malcolm
could be arranged in the interim, that would
be perfect.

If that would suit your other engagements."


My engagements of any other sort would
be so much cobweb," Mrs. Malcolm replied,
in comparison with serving you, dear, and
doing her behests."

"It is beautiful to hear you say that. I
wish I was as far advanced as you are.
For my part — I suppose I have got to live
my life like other girls, and I must be more
with the Miltenhams in future than I have
been. I am eighteen now, you know," Edith
added with a grave little sigh, as she contemplated
the large responsibility this heavy
weight of years brought with it.

But what do you mean by leading your
life r

I have thought it all over frequently,"

Edith answered. " I am not an heiress, you
see. And Papa's means are small, but even
this house and the property belonging toit
go ultimately to a cousin we hardly know.
The family affairs of the Kinseyles seem to
have fallen out very crosswise. All the boys
ought to have been girls, and all the girls
boys, to have kept the property together.
Sooner or later I suppose I shall have to face
the common lot, and marry somebody."

"It may be a very dreary lot, if it is
accepted merely as a necessity," Mrs.
Malcolm returned dreamily, after a little
pause.

They were sitting together in the little
arbour in the garden after dinner, in the dusk
of a still summer evening. During dinner
there had been some conversation about
Edith's peculiarities between Mr. Kinseyle
and Mrs. Malcolm — his questions being of a
politely circuitous and careful kind, and her
replies veiled by the reserve she always felt
in talking to a person without psychic intuitions
to meet her own ; and beyond feeling
that in every way Mrs. Malcolm was evidently
a very good and proper friend for his

daughter, Mr. Kinseyle had not learned
much from what passed. He had joined
them for a little while in the garden afterwards,
and had then retired to his study,
while Miss Barkley had discreetly withdrawn,
feeling that her presence was not
required. George had strolled off to smoke
a cigar by himself, and the two ladies had
thus been left together.

"That," Edith said, in answer to Mrs.
Malcolm's last reflection, " is just why I have
resolved not to shut myself up too much
henceforward. If marriage were a thing to
take or let alone as one pleased — just as it is
with a man — there would be no need to
think about it beforehand. But I do not
mean to do anything rash. I mean to see
plenty of people, and make my choice with
great care."

Some listeners might have been disposed
to take most notice of the comic side of the
young lady's sedate philosophy, grounded as
it was on the calm assumption that an infinite
range of choice would necessarily await
her ; but Mrs. Malcolm was never especially
attentive to the ludicrous side of things, and

only dwelt upon the peculiar hazards that
would affect the marriage question with a
girl of such abnormal gifts as Edith's.

"But please, dear Mrs. Malcolm," the
young lady pleaded, " do not think of me as
intending to hunt the covers of society fora
suitable husband. I only mean that I do
not think it would be right or wise for me to
go on leading quite as quiet a life in future
as I have in the past. Let us talk now of
what is much more interesting. I shall
never give up my spiritual life, whatever
happens ; you may be sure of that."

Mrs. Malcolm did not press the subject-any
further, and their talk reverted to the
ever-interesting topic of Edith's experiences.
This led to some account of her earlier
enthusiasm about the white knight, and to a
vivacious proposal — a sudden inspiration of
hers — that they two should go and watch
for him at the gate.

Mrs. Malcolm was inclined to disapprove
of the commonplace ghost as an unseemly
companion for a budding peeress like Edith,
but gave way to the girl's impulsive entreaties.


"It would be such fun' she urged, " for
rue to tell B.," and she tripped lightly forward
to the house calling for Miss Barkley.

That lady appeared at the so-called " schoolroom
" window, on the ground-floor, and inquired
what was wanted.

Wouldn't you like to come with us, dear
B. We are o'oino- for a little walk."

"Why, of course, if you want me," Miss
Barkley began.

We are going to sit at the gate as it gets
dark and look out for the white knight.
I'm sure you'd like to come."

"Oh, goodness, Edith! how can you?
Oh, Mrs. Malcolm ! pray don't take her todo
anything so — so unwholesome and so unnatural."


Edith was doubly delighted at Miss Barkley's
easily excited horror, and at the inappropriate
charge implied against Mrs. Malcolm,
of being the promoter of the enterprise.

Resistance is in vain, my poor B. Her
will is supreme. Nothing but your presence
will save me. Unless you come too, the
white knight will carry me off, and you will
never see me again."

Oh, Edith ! what nonsense you talk. I
don't believe Mrs. Malcolm wants to go at
all."

u Insist upon my going, on your peril,"
said Edith to Mrs. Malcolm in a stage aside,
and, without waiting for a reply, slipped her
arm round the lady's waist and hurried her
off towards the side of the house. " Fare
thee well, B.," she cried, w r having her other
hand to the governess ; "and if for ever, still
for ever fare thee well," her effervescent
spirits bubbling over in joyous laughter as
they went.

I was too frivolous for my white knight,"
she declared when they came back later in
the evening, having indeed wandered off,
after a little fruitless waiting at the gate,
down the briar-scented road, talking seriously
again about the subjects that interested them
more deeply. They had met Ferrars coming
back from his moody stroll, and all three had
returned together, Miss Barkley being still
possessed with the tremors Edith's unhallowed
purpose had awakened in her nervous
system.

It was your fault, B., I am afraid. You

made mo laugh, and the knight must have
© j ©

been shocked at my apparent levity. We
must try and do something together to propitiate
him."

They had tea served in the drawing-room
before the guests departed, and Edith
sang to them one or two songs, with Ferrars
in attendance at the piano, while Mr.
Kinseyle and Mrs. Malcolm talked about heron
the sofa.

She has a wonderful flow of spirits,"
Mrs. Malcolm said.

u A dear child,' her father replied reflectively.
a I think I appreciate her in my
quiet way. The house is very dull without
her, but I am ashamed almost to keep her so
much with me. She ought to have pleasure

at her age. But she is as good as she is light

© ©

hearted, and makes herself contented here."

She might be in greater danger in a less
secluded home. With her gifts and extraordinary
charm and her great beauty, the
world will be a place for her where she will
be too much sought after not to need the
most loving watchfulness."

Is she beautiful, do you think ? How

odd I never thought much about that. A
child grows up, and one gets so used to her,
one hardly thinks of that. Yes ; I suppose
she is beautiful."

Certainly she is beautiful ; and that
wonderful vivacity of manner she has, and
her brightness, makes her beauty ten times
more effective than it would be if her
character were different. Then, with the
fresh gaiety of a child, she has the wise
thoughtfulness of a grown woman ; and yet
all that I have said about her is as nothing
compared with her psychic gifts — in my eyes,
at least."

I am greatly interested in what you
say," Mr. Kinseyle remarked, after a thoughtful
pause. " I should greatly like to talk
with you more at leisure about her. Your
experience and knowledge of the world might
be of great service to me in her interest."

She had been singing an " Ave Maria "
with the rapt look of a devotee while this
conversation had been going on in a low tone ;
or rather, the conversation had begun while
she was preluding, and had been carried on
during the earlier part of the song.

u I am greatly flattered," she said at the
end, with mock displeasure, " at having
secured your attention at last ; but tears and
entreaties would not suffice to make me sing
anything more of a serious kind. I'll give
you something suited to your frivolous
tastes," and with that she dashed into a nonsensical
popular ballad of the day, picked up
from a comic operetta, and rattled off its
absurdities with the keenest enjoyment of
the task.

Papa dear," she said, slipping across to
the sofa at its conclusion, and putting her
arms round Mrs. Malcolm's neck from behind.
"Do tell Mrs. Malcolm that by
nature I am pensive and intense. Only Miss
Barkley has brought me up to sing comic
songs occasionally to avert the consequences
of over study."

Mrs. Malcolm had no faculty for badinage.

Many a true word is spoken in jest," she
said, as she pressed one of the small hands
put round her. " I can quite understand
that you are most your true self when you
are most in earnest ; delightful though you
are at other times also."

Fly, some one, for pen and ink, to put me
that in writing ! But about tomorrow V for
Mrs. Malcolm rose to go.

It was arranged that Mrs. Malcolm should
pick Edith up in the afternoon, on her way
to Kinseyle Court, and should afterwards
take her back to Highton for dinner. She
could return in the evening, she said, in their
own phaeton, which would come and fetch
her. There was no sort of difficulty in the
matter, and her father raised no objection.

What are you doing at the Court again V
he asked, rather in politeness than from any
disposition to interfere with his daughters
liberty.

Mrs. Malcolm looked disturbed. The
purpose of the expedition was difficult to
explain, but no one had a better right to
have it explained than Mr. Kinseyle.

Edith came to the rescue, however, with
an easy grace, though with a sweet little
touch of solemnity in her manner.

"I'm going to see if Mrs. Malcolm
can help me to see again and understand
something I have seen there once before,
Papa."

u What do you think it is that she has
seen V Mr. Kinseyle asked of Mrs. Malcolm,
with a puzzled air.

How can we tell ? But if she sees what
I see, as I believe, she will see what has at
any rate been the consolation and noblest
inspiration of my life in my own case. Of
course, nothing of this kind must be done
without your consent ; but will you trust me
to watch over her for this one afternoon, at
any rate ? It is so difficult to explain in
detail, but at all events, I look upon the
trust as a most sacred one."

"I'm sure you will take care of her f
Mr. Kinseyle almost eagerly assured her,
in reply to the earnest appeal, " I was
not wanting to interfere. I'm sure, indeed,
that Edith's own instincts are altogether to
be trusted."

He spoke almost apologetically, as if to
escape from the responsibility which his own
question had threatened to bring upon him,
and pressed no further inquiries. The two
ladies went upstairs together in search of
Mrs. Malcolm's hat and wraps.

You are wonderfully free to do as you

like, my dear ; almost alarmingly so," Mrs.
Malcolm said in the bedroom.

How funny that it should strike you in
that way. I could not conceive any other
state of things. I have always done as I
like."

"It is an immense responsibility," said
Mrs. Malcolm earnestly, picking up her hat
off the dressing-table and looking at the
reflection of Edith in the glass.

The girl, in sheer sportiveness, was balancing
herself on the edge of her fender — a
solid, simply-made, low iron rail in front of
her fireplace ; and with skirts a little picked
up, as she lightly laughed at Mrs. Malcolm's
solemn enunciation of this idea, stood on one
foot and kept her equilibrium by swaying the
other from side to side. She did not notice
the intentness with which Mrs. Malcolm
gazed into the mirror, but kept her balance
for a few seconds, and was then just losing
it and all but tilting over against the mantelpiece,
when Mrs. Malcolm, with a sort of
suppressed cry, turned round, and springing
towards her, caught her round the waist.

Why, what's the matter ?" cried Edith,
half laughing, half startled.

Nothing, really, and I knew there was
nothing really, but I could not help myself.
I imagined you falling."

"But I've fallen off this fender a hundred
times. I can't fall more than four inches."

I know. But the picture was too overpowering.
It seemed to me as I looked at
you in the glass that the mantelpiece and the
wall there had all melted away, and left
nothing but horrible rocks and precipices. It
was an allegorical fancy merely, but as you
balanced yourself, all your life seemed to hang
upon the question whether you would go
over to that side or this. I thought you
were going over to the rocks, and I simply
couldn't help springing forward to save you."

Edith's fancy was too nearly akin to Mrs.
Malcolm's for her to take the explanation
otherwise than quite seriously.

Then was I really falling the w 7 long way ?
What a frightful idea. But I really don't
think it was certain which way I was going.
It's almost a pity you did not wait to

see."

VOL. I. 12

May I be guarded from ever seeing a
bad omen about you."

At all events, dear, you saved me intime.
I did not actually touch the mantelpiece,
though I believe I slipped down on
the wrong side of the fender f

Well, let us make a good omen of it
anyhow, and may I be always at hand if you
want help, as you go on balancing yourself
through life."

THE RIGHT INFLUENCE.

Mrs. Malcolm and Edith found Marston
waiting for them when they arrived the
following afternoon at Kinseyle Court. They
came alone, for George Ferrars had remained
at Highton, and Mrs. Malcolm's companionship
released Miss Barkley from her usual
attendance on her pupil. Marston met them
in the hall, and all three went at once into
the library.

It is very good of you to have comedown,"
Edith said, " for I understand you
have come altogether on my account."

Marston was very grave, and almost stiff
in manner.

"Thanks," Mrs. Malcolm said to him,
almost at the same time as she gave him
her hand. " I know it is right for you to
have come, for I know I did right to ask

12—2

you. It is a comfort to be sure of that
much."

I feel as though I ought to apologise for
seernino- boorish in making conditions about
coming' he said to Edith, merely bowing an
acknowledgment of Mrs. Malcolm's few
words, "but, — I never accept invitations."
He spoke in an awkward harsh tone, making
no excuses for the behaviour which he said
must seem boorish ; but Edith was too much
impressed with the vague mystery which
seemed to surround him to have thought of
his conditions in that light. Moreover, she
was too much interested in meeting him
again, having entertained a vivid recollection
of their brief conversation on the former
occasion, to be critical of minor circumstances.
Her feeling of satisfaction at his reappearance
overpowered all others, and found
expression in the cordiality of her look and
manner.

Then I am all the more obliged and
flattered at drawing so confirmed a recluse
from his den. With you and Mrs. Malcolm, I
feel lifted right out of my own humdrum life
into the midst of — I hardly know what —

grand and beautiful ideas that you have got
to explain to me. Oh, isn't it delightful,
Marian?" — Mrs. Malcolm had taught her by
this time to use the more intimate name ;
we've got a whole long afternoon before us,
we three, with no outsiders to interfere with
us. I believe this is song to be a turning-point
in my life. Let us all go and sit round
the window in the Countess's study and talk.
Do you know," she went on a little later,
when her wishes had been fulfilled, and
addressing Mars ton, " I realize now that I
have been quite anxious all day lest something
should have occurred to prevent you
from coming ; I am so glad to find our
programme is to be carried out."

Marston's rigidity thawed under the influences
of her sunny good spirits, and the
dawning smile with which he looked at her,
in its sweetness and wistfulness, would have
shown an acute observer that his stiff manner
at first had sprung from discontentment with
himself, and not with his companions. If
they were not displeased there was nothing
left in the situation for him to fret over. As
small, slightly-made men often are, he was

very neatly dressed, but the merit of his
costume had to do with its perfect make and
taste, not with any showy characteristics.
His bearing was very erect, his dark eyes
seemed larger and more luminous than ever,
but his voice, when he spoke again, had
recovered a softer and more natural tone
than that in which his first greetings had
been uttered.

It shall be carried out, if that lies with
me, but now let me hear what it is."

"Ah, now I recognise your voice again,"
Edith said ; " I did not, for the moment, at
first. But now I remember how you promised
me, when we were talking together
before, that I should soon be helped to
understand my visions, and so forth. Your
voice brings back the prophecy, which has
been most honestly fulfilled, only you have
had to take some part yourself in its fulfilment,
after all."

You know nearly as much, about our
programme as we do," Mrs. Malcolm put in,
for you know that I want you to put Miss
Kinseyle into a mesmeric sleep, in order that
she may tell us, if possible, and herself

afterwards through us, more about the Spirit
she has seen, and what is required of her.
Do you think you can mesmerise her ?"

Marston turned his head, without immediately
answering, to Edith, and fixed his eyes
upon her with gentle but earnest interest.
She looked back at him with a frank, trustful
gaze, and a smile that seemed to meet his
answer half way, and then Marston said, ina
very low voice :

I am quite sure of it."

I am so glad," answered Edith. " I
fancied you would be able ; but Mr. Ferrars
found me an unmanageable subject, and I half
feared there might be something wrong."

And now, having answered your question
frankly, let me beg pardon for having spoken
as if boastfully of my own powers. But, in
anything so serious as real mesmerism, truth
must come first, conventional self-depreciation
afterwards."

But please spare us that altogether,"
said Edith. " Let us have the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, this
afternoon."

Happily, the truth will not require me

to boast again. The reason why I am so
sure of being able to magnetise you is, that I
know, at all events, enough of occult laws to
comprehend some, at any rate, of your own
characteristics. But 1 will lecture afterwards,
if you want me to. That will come
best after the demonstration of the fact'

But I like the lecture. Please go on."

We have £ot the afternoon before us. as
Edith says," Mrs. Malcolm added. "We
can talk quietly for awhile. To be three
people together who sympathize with one
another on the psychic plane, is to hold quite
an occult festival. For my part, I very
rarely meet anyone I can talk to aboufc my
own inner life, but with you both I* can
open the sanctuary without seeming to profane
it."

In one sense' Marston answered, " all
of us who have an inner sanctuary have it
in common with each other. The difficulty
is to get free access to it ourselves, whenever
we wish. You, and I imagine Miss Kinseyle
too, can both retreat into it very easily
compared to most of us."

I am not conscious," said Edith, " of

being 1 able to do anything at all : but I am
all attention, and only too eager to learn."

How shall I explain what I mean ?"
Marston went on. " In some Indian book,
I believe, there is a saving to this effect.
At the first blush of the words it sounds
irreverent, but that is merely because a truly
reverent idea is cast in a paradoxical form :
Whoso worships God and does not know
that he is worshipping himself, to God that
man is like the cattle in the fields.' The
point of the idea is that, failing to appreciate
the highest element in our own natures,
which is an emanation from Deity, we remain
outside the possibilities of truly human development.
We are external to the divine
consciousness if we do not realize that there
is a fibre vibrating: with the divine consciousness
within us. Realize that, and you know
that in worshipping God, you are at the same
time worshipping the highest potentiality in
your own nature — preparing it for fuller
consciousness — retreating, in fact, into the
sanctuary we were talking of just now. That
must be an intellectual process only for most
of us, but for exceptional people, gifted as

you are, every now and then you see as if
with actual eyesight some manifestation of
your own higher consciousness. I take it —
though I should not venture to dogmatise about
the personality, so to speak, of the visions
you both have seen — that these are only
possible for you because the element of
divine consciousness in you is functioning
more actively than with other people."

It's very interesting," Edith said, having
paid the deepest attention ; " but I don't
feel how it applies to me."

It is very puzzling at first — the earliest
attainments in occult knowledge are so intangible
and so subtle. It is merely a
recognition, in fact, in their proper bearings, of
things you have known all along. When you
reach after a thought in your mind, pondering
how can this or that be so, and then,
when an idea flashes upon you or dawns upon
you, where do you suppose it comes from V

I don't know. But everybody has ideas
come up in their minds in that way."

They do ; and all human beings have
some attributes in common. But the ideas
that come up in different minds are of very

varying degrees of dignity, and, not to
confuse the matter by dealing with the
trumpery ones, let us ask whence do the
very elevated ideas come from."

Edith shook her head, merely to indicate
that she did not see the answer.

Marston looked at her fixedly. The
nature of their conversation was such that
he could do this without embarrassment ;
and she gazed back, absorbed in the subject
they were talking of.

Never mind me," said Marston. He
had been sitting in a chair, while the two
ladies were in the window-seat of the square
projecting window; and now he rose, standing
beside Edith, and put one hand on her
forehead, visible under a wide-brimmed hat
that turned back on the side next to him.
Go on thinking of what we were talking
about. When you dive into the recesses of
your mind in search of some idea, whence
does the idea come % That was the question
I was asking."

Oh, you mean from the higher streak of
consciousness you were talking about — the
divine element."

"Exactly," said Marston, dropping back
into his chair ; " which, in your wonderful
organism, is so susceptible to an external
influence even, that magnetic contact with
me for a moment, when I had that idea
intensely imprinted on my own mind, was
enough to present it to yours, and as that
was the idea you were wanting, you recognised
it, and instantly seized it."

How do you mean ? Then you were
actually able to put that idea into my
head r

I was able," Marston said, with a grave
smile and bow, " because of the peculiarities
of the head."

Why, that's mesmerising me already,
before you have begun. Oh, Marian ! isn't
that wonderful V

Yes," Marston himself answered ; " it is
wonderful : full of just cause for that sort of
reverent wonder that is a kind of worship.
But keep hold of the idea, please, in all its
bearings, and it will throw light on what we
were talking of before — the way in which the
proper recognition of familiar things may
constitute a great advance of knowledge.

The ideas that rise in your mind as you
think of a problem — ideas that come into
your head — have a source from which they
come : a great fountain-head of ideas always
abundantly flowing. Along more or less
choked and narrow channels all men may
draw intellectual sustenance from that fountain
; though in the vanity — which is a sad
sort of ignorance really — which makes them
repudiate their own best attribute, they will
have it generally that they think out or
developed such few drops as may trickle from
it, for themselves. Now your peculiar
gifts — attributes of your organism — enable
you to realize some things that other people,
at best, can only speculate about, and this
among them. If you feel that thoughts may
come into your mind from an external source
even though that is only so humble a one
as another mind — you will no longer be in
doubt as to the possibility that some of your
thoughts, at any rate — or subjective impressions,
we may call them, if you like — when
no companion mind is in the case at all, may
come from an external spiritual source, and
then, in time, you will do more and be able

to discriminate among your thoughts, and
comprehend which are so derived and which
are relatively commonplace."

And would that be the way the Countess
would talk to me ? Is that the way," turning
to Mrs. Malcolm, "your Guardian talks to
you {

Marston waited for Mrs. Malcolm to reply,
but she only said :

Let Mr. Marston answer for me. I feel
how things are with me : but he will explain
it better."

I take it that Mrs. Malcolm feels as
you, no doubt, will come to feel, that the
communication is much more direct. The
sifting-out process, the faculty of distinguishing
thoughts drawn from the higher
regions of our consciousness, from those
which arise by simple association of ideas in
the lower, is possible for almost any reflective
and intelligent people. For you, therefore,
that is possible, as I have said ; but for
you a great deal more is possible also, because,
with your higher consciousness awake and at
work, it will show you pictures at least —
perhaps very great and beautiful realities

belonging to that plane — and then, when the
corresponding thoughts flow into your mind,
it will be as though such thoughts were
plainly spoken to you by the beings of your
visions, as, in truth, may be really the case. As
I am trying to show, the process will not be
only inferred about and worked out intellectually
by you, but perceived without an
effort."

It is immensely instructive already. What
you have done in putting a thought into my
head, by some mysterious influence of your
own thought, is wonderful."

"What I have to do is to teach you to
appreciate yourself. The simplest way will,
perhaps, be the most striking at first. Now,
for instance '

He looked round. On the table in the
middle of the room were some books — some
of the old family records that Edith had
been studying. He went to one of these
and opened it at random — in the middle —
leaving it lying on the table, and having
glanced at the top of the page, he came back
to Edith's side, saying :

The first word at the top of that page is

in my mind. You will be able to read it,
letter by letter, through me, as you did the
idea we were talking of just now." He put
his hand again upon her forehead. " Now,
what is the first letter ? Say whatever comes
first into your mind to say. Don't make an
efFort.' ,

He remained for a few moments standing
silent and motionless, with his eyes shut.

Good gracious !" said Edith, " it isn't L,
is it ? I seemed to see an L, bright on a
dark background, for a moment."

Of course, it is L," answered Marston.
That is why you saw it."

No! How wonderful!"

Now give us the second letter."

In the same way, after varying intervals
of hesitation, but without mentioning any
wrong letter, Edith gave three letters successively,
" L A U." For the fourth letter
she said " K."

Ah ! pardon me. I beg your pardon,"
said Marston.

Why ; what do you mean ?"

"Because it is not a 'K'; it is an 'B.'
The two letters are something alike when

you try to picture them to yourself, and the
awkwardly-formed ' R ' in my mind looked to
you apparently like a ' K.' "

"But that was my fault, evidently. I
don't suppose your ' R ' was awkwardly
formed at all."

Miss Kinseyle," said Marston, sitting
down again, " I have learned more this
afternoon already than I have taught you ;
and if anything fails with you, at any time,
in any such experiment as this, rest assured
that you are no more in fault than a perfect
instrument is in fault when a musician plays
a wrong note. Let me be candid. That
was an experiment we have just tried. Perhaps
I was wrong to try it ; because, if it
had failed, it might have impaired my confidence
and perhaps, therefore, my usefulness
to you in anything you want to do this
afternoon. But I divined the perfection of
your sensitiveness and could not resist testing
it. To have done what you have just
done is an absolutely splendid feat. I have
known it done before, but it is enormously
difficult. To have said that at first would,
perhaps, have thrown you off the right attic

i. 13

tide of mind ; but now the course is clear
before us. I have not got to act confidence
with you — the confidence is established,
absolutely and overwhelmingly."

Edith accepted the compliments graciously
and pleasantly. They were too obviously
sincere to excite any distrust ; but she
declared herself in need of more explanation.


And I do not see why the result is not
to be accounted for by your own extraordinary
power. You must have that, for I feel
strange feelings in my head from your hand."

Well ; let it be for the present as you
please. I have power for the moment, at all
events ; though it may be you who have
given it me."

But are we not to go on with the word ?"

It is no matter now. You have shown
the delicacy of your psychic sense in a
manner which is perfectly splendid. It
would be waste of effort to go on with that."

But what was the word, then ?" said
Edith, going to the table and looking at the
open book. " ' Laura !' good gracious ! there
it is — the first word on the page : L, A, U.

I wish I had not been so stupid with the
R"

Stupid !" said Mars ton ; " you are like a
millionnaire complaining that he is poor for
not having a hundred a year more than he
possesses."

Perhaps Edith was playing with the idea,
from her usual inclination towards making fun
of things, perhaps she did not dislike the
eager declaration of Marston's admiration for
her powers ; so she smiled demurely, and
declared that Mr. Marston was trying to
give her confidence in herself, no doubt.

At all events, I am getting confidence in
your powers, Mr. Marston. What is the
next exercise your potent will may be pleased
to guide me to ?"

"It is a happy phrase," Marston replied.
"• My will shall be your guide; for your guide
may be your servant all the time. While
holding the sacred trust, believe me, it shall
always be that, and exercised over your soul at
the bidding only of your waking consciousness."


Edith felt the earnestness of the promise
without fully understanding it.

13—2

I am sure you will take all possible care
of me, and I am not in the least afraid'

Marston bowed. Mrs. Malcolm intervened
before more was said, and proposed that they
should go on with their project.

We can darken the rooms a little if there
is too much light."

Yes, that will be better ; but first let me
put Miss Kinseyle perfectly at ease. That
chair is not comfortable enough. I will bring
in the couch from the library."

But Edith declared she loved the old chair,
and when this was put back against the angle
of the projecting moulding that encircled the
window recess, with cushions propped against
the wall behind, and a lower chair in front
for her feet, she was at last made comfortable
enough even to suit Mr. Marston's
anxiety on that head.

I would spare you the trouble," he said
to Mrs. Malcolm, as she w T as closing the
shutters, " but I ought to remain quite quiet
for the present."

Of course. I can manage the windows,
and there is no hurry. I'll close some of
those in the library too."

Edith faced the open door leading into the
library as she lay back in her improvised nest
of cushions. Marston stood by her side,
looking down on her half upturned face. The
light of the room was subdued by the closed,
but not barred, shutters — not entirely
darkened.

Is it well for you to tell me beforehand
what is going to happen ?" she asked.

That will be for you to decide, as soon as
you are free to look about you. What I shall
be able to do will be to put your physical
senses to sleep in such a way as to leave your
psychic senses in their natural bright activity.
And yet your sleeping lips will tell us what
these see, and I am always at hand to draw
you back at the least sign that you may make.
It is exactly as if you were swimming, with
a line round your waist that some one should
be holding. We can draw you to shore
whenever you look tired or give the order.
As for *what will happen — that is, what you
will see — your own higher consciousness will
dictate that, not your humble, though very
faithful guide'

You are so absolutely sure of yo\ir power

over me, that you do not even care to assume
the masterful tone."

Yes, in one way; I am so absolutely sure
of my power to bring music out of the
wonderful instrument in my hands, that
there is no need to claim that the music is
in my fingers. May I take your hands for a
little while V Edith resigned them to him
at once. " Now, as soon as Mrs. Malcolm
has settled the shutters and herself in a seat
near us, you shall give me the order to put
you to sleep, and you will not remember
the next minute, as far as this room is concerned."


How my arms thrill. I thought you
would have to make passes with your hands
for a long time before I felt anything. You
seem to be able to do everything at a word
only. Where did you learn it all?"

Ask them whom you may see presently,
if you like."

I seem to know instinctively, in a vague
sort of way. In the school of suffering — is
that so r

Perhaps."

Mrs. Malcolm came back through the doorway

now, and took her seat on a low ottoman
a little in front of Edith on the left side,
Marston standing beside her on her right.

Are you comfortable. Marian dear ?"
Edith inquired.

Quite, thank you ; and you T

"Then I'm off. Good-bye. Put me to
sleep," she said to Marston, in a little tone of
command, obeying his wish with a subtle
sweetness in assuming this, and emphasising
the order with a slight pressure of her hand
in his.

He brought both of these into one of his
own, and drawing the other down over her
forehead and eyes, repeated the word, bending
close over her as he spoke in a low
earnest tone :

Sleep — sleep — sleep."

Then he left her hands on her lap and
made passes over her face for a little while,
but she did not move after the words had
been spoken, and only rolled her head a little
from side to side two or three times on her
cushion.

Tell me what you see T Marston said to
her, " as soon as you can look about \ r ou."

Edith made one or two hardly articulate
sounds. Marston moved his fingers quickly
about just in front of her mouth, and then ina
few moments, though speaking as in the
profoundest slumber as far as her physical
state was concerned, she said, a little more
clearly —

I'm only just waking up ; I don't see
anything, except the light. It's too bright
to see anything."

It does not dazzle you, though, does it ?"

No, it doesn't dazzle."

What is the scene around you like V

I can't see anything clearly — a sort of
plain. There are some rocks in the distance.
No ; they are close by. Oh! I am rushing
along ; flying somehow."

Isn't there anyone with you ?"

I think so — " after a little pause, u but I
do not see anybody. Ah "

What made you cry out V

We seemed to dash up against a cliff, but
it did not do any harm. I hardly felt it.
What's this V J

Have you stopped anywhere V

tl Yes, on a kind of grassy ledge, a little

valley up among mountains. It's so pleasant."
She smiled, though her eyes remained closed ;
then, after a few moments of silence, called
out sharply, " Take care of that thread."

11 Trust me to take care of the thread,"
said Marston in a confident tone. "Does it
seem very thin V

Yes ; thin, fine, and silvery. I seemed
to feel some one pulling at it. It is all right
now. Oh ! — " in a less contented tone,
where does it lead to V

Never mind that now. Look round you.
Is there anyone with you in the valley ?"

No, I don't see anyone, but I feel as if
some one was with me — some one who loves
me. Oh I" in a low voice, " She's here.
I see her now shining before me. She's a
glorious spirit. My Queen !"

That's right. You have seen her before,
have you not V

Of course I have ; I know her. I have
always known her. Now I see the real
person. What! — of course I will."

Will you tell me what she has just said
to you T

For the first time since her trance had.

begun Edith did not immediately answer the
question, but after a little interval began to
murmur half articulate words of affectionate
adoration and broken replies to some conversation,
which she was carrying on in another
state of consciousness. Marston took one of
her hands again — he had not touched her
before since she had been put to sleep — and
laid his other hand on her forehead.

You must come back to us if you will not
answer me."

Take care of the thread," she said
petulantly.

"Tell me what the beautiful Spirit is saying
to you."

She tells me I may come to her altogether
soon, if I like. I shall not have to
stay long in that horrible body."

Ask her if we are doing right to
mesmerise you in this way, and if that is
what she wanted."

Yes, she meant that ; that is why she
sent Marian to me. You are to go on every
few days, and soon I shall be able to understand
all she says better."

Has she any particular orders for you ?"

What — I'm sure she may, to me, and I
will obey her."

What is that she says ?" Marston said
very emphatically.

Don't pull that thread ! She says "

What does she say ?"

I don't know exactly. She makes me
feel heavenly. It does not matter."

"But I must know whether she has any
orders for you. Ask her that."

Edith smiled very sweetly, ejaculating
"dearest," then "Very well," and then replying
at last to Marston's question.

She has no orders for me, she says, only
encouragement. But she will be able to talk
more plainly to me later on. When I am
more at home with her. At any rate, I'm
glad I have not got to stay long down
there."

Mrs. Malcolm asked in a low voice, " Has
she any message for me ?"

Mr. Marston repeated the question.

Has she any message for Mrs. Malcolm
?"

"Who V said Edith, with a little frown.

Has she any message for Marian ?"

Marston glanced round as if to apologise
for the use of the name, but Mrs. Malcolm,
quickly comprehending the idea, nodded
acquiescence, and Edith accepted the amendment.


Oh, for Marian ! Yes, she says I shall
amply reward her for the trouble she has
taken, and that she is grateful. She smiles,
oh, so beautifully. How glorious she is."

Ask her whether it is not time for you to
come back."

"Oh, I couldn't think of going back at
present."

It had an odd effect for the protest, considering
its nature, to take the familiar
colouring in this way of Edith's ordinary
waking manner, a little emphasis being put
on one word in the sentence, and the whole
given with her usual assured way of announcing
her will and pleasure, when her mind was
made up about anything.

I shall bring you back unless you can tell
me that she says you may stop longer."

"Don't worry. What? yes; she says I
may stay a little longer. Only a little?" —
these last words in a pleading tone. " As

long as she stays with me I may stop, I
am bathed in her sweet influence. It is so
perfect. I would never want anything more
than this. To be always with her — what
perpetual Heaven !" These and a few more
disjointed phrases of the same kind were
spoken at intervals, and Edith's face, all the
while upturned as she lay back against her
cushions, beamed with a rapt expression of
delight. Presently, however, it clouded.
Oh, she is going away ! I will go with her.
But I can't ; I don't know where she has
gone. She has gone somehow — where ?"

Never mind," said Marston, li you will
see her again another time. Now you have
got to come away yourself, you know ; that
was what she said."

But I dont want to come away," Edith
answered quite crossly. " Can't you take
care of the thread !"

Remember, she told you to come back
when she left you. Now she is gone, and
you must obey her. So I am going to draw
you back, whether you like it or not. Sorry
to be rude ; but you must come'

« No I no !"

Very gently Marston laid one hand on her
head and one on her left side, and speaking
tenderly, but firmly, repeated :

You must come. Come back — slowly,
gently now," as Edith moved restlessly in
her chair, and made a few sounds as of
pettish protest. " That's right ; you are
coming back now, aren't you % Sleep quietly
now for a moment'' The restlessness died
away, and Edith's face sank into repose
again, losing the varied expressions that had
been chasing one another over her features
during her trance.

That's it I" said Marston. " Beautifully
brought back. Now you can wake up as
soon as you like." And he waved his hands
upward several times in front of her face.
V Wake up ! You are all here again, and
we are wanting to talk to you. Ah "

He dropped his hands as Edith suddenly
opened her eyes, sat up in her chair, and
exclaimed :

Goodness ! Have I been asleep \ What
has been happening V

Marston drew back a little from her side
and sat down on one of the formal old high-backed

chairs that stood near the table.
Mrs. Malcolm rose, and came to her in his
place, embracing her with affectionate
earnestness.

My dear Edith, } T ou have been in Heaven,
and telling us all about it. You have been
hpvinof- a glorious vision."

I remember, now. Mr. Marston said I
should tell him when to put me to sleep, and
that I should go off at once. So I did.
I don't recollect anything after that. It's
perfectly wonderful how he did it in an
instant like that."

But don't you remember anything of
your vision \ You saw her, you know —
beautifully."

Edith put her hand to her head, and tried
to recall something.

I seem as if I should remember something
directly, but I don't know what it is.
All I can think of is, that I was somehow
told to ' come back.' "

Ah !" cried Marston. " How stupid of
me ! It is my fault that you do not remember
better."

You managed her splendidly," Mrs.

Malcolm said. " I am sure you have
nothing to reproach yourself with."

11 But tell me all about it," said Edith.
I am all in the dark."

But first, you feel none the worse ?"

I feel delightfully. I am much the
better. I don't want to move, for fear of
breaking the spell."

Don't move for the present," Marston
said. " In a few minutes you must let me
mesmerise you again a little, to restore your
physical strength thoroughly. Meanwhile,
you can lie quiet, and hear Mrs. Malcolm's
report of what you have been saying."

Do you feel weakened, Mr. Marston ?"
Mrs. Malcolm asked.

Weakened ? No ; certainly not. Tired
for the moment, but in five minutes I shall
be thoroughly wound up again."

The answer, confident as it was, excited
Edith's attention, and there was some little
conversation on the subject. Then she
wanted to know why she had been so
abnormally stupid " as to have remembered
nothing of the vision he had procured for
her.

It is just as I explained before about
the E and the K," Marston said. "My
fault — I did not impress upon you to remember."


"I do not object to the theory in the
least'' Edith said. i; Whenever I make any
mistake, that is always to be regarded in
future as somebody else's fault. It is very
kind of me — having been so particularly
stupid tins time — but I will forgive you if
you will explain how 3-011 could have made
even me remember, if you had managed something
differently."

Marston did not rise very cheerfully to
the airy gaiety of her manner. There was
something more wistful than light-hearted
in the smile with which he replied to it. In
words, he said very simply :

; I ought to have impressed upon you at
the time to remember the salient features of
your vision. Clairvoyants, who go right out
of the body, as you did, frequently remember
nothing when they return, unless they are so
impressed. What you said about remembering
that you had been told to come back,
just illustrates the thing. I appealed to you

vol. 1. 14

to remember that your guardian spirit had
said you were to come back when she went
away."

They went on talking over all that had
passed, randall the characteristics of the trance,
and eventually Edith was put in possession
of the whole case, and of all that she had
said, except as regards the few words she
had spoken indicating the probability of her
own early death. Both Mrs. Malcolm and
Marston avoided this part of the story, and
a look of intelligence passed between them
as each saw that the other was avoiding the
same thing. They told Edith how cross she
had been about her " thread."

"All clairvoyant wanderers from the fleshly
prison see this magnetic filament that connects
them with the body," Marston explained.
" I do not suppose it is really in
any danger of breaking, in the mechanical
sense of the word ; but the clairvoyant
associates an earthly notion with it, and if
its attraction draws upon him, will generally
get nervous about it."

And was I very anxious about my
thread ?"

"Very snappish, my dear, I assure you,
when Mr. Marston would not let you break
away from us altogether, and leave us nothing
but an empty body ; and you showed a
reluctance to come back to such low company
as our own, after being with spirits in Heaven,
in a way that was much more emphatic than
complimentary."

It was disgracefully rude of me, seeing
that you put me in Heaven for the time ; but
like all other bad behaviour of mine, I suppose
that is Mr. Marston's fault. Mr.
Marston, I am shocked at you when I think
that I have been rude."

This time I am not responsible. That
you should prefer Heaven to earth is entirely
due to your own characteristics."

So Mr. Marston managed me splendidly
you say, Marian ?" Edith remarked, acknowledging
the compliment with a pleasant
smile only. " How can you keep control
over me when I am right away in unknown
regions, and out of sight altogether ? Or am
1 out of sight indeed % Can you see what I
am about all the while, and where I am
going V

14—2

I wish I could. We are not all endowed
with the power of consciousness on that plane.
The only control I can exercise is a watchfulness
over your body, which is still in magnetic
relations with your soul all the while. It is
drawing upon you continually with its vital
attraction, or whatever we like to call it, and
when necessary I can somehow augment that
vital attraction so that it brings you back in
spite of your disinclination to come. That is
all the use I am to you. I can drag you
back to earth."

But as I can't get away from earth to
begin with without your help, I have not so
much to complain of. And if you did not
drag me back, should I never come back at
all r

That I would not venture to say. That
there would be danger, even to your life, if you
were sent wandering in space under mesmeric
influences and not watched over from this
side, seems to me probable ; but you might
return, exhausted as it were, at last, of your
own accord even then, and the effect of such
an adventure would be very bad for your
nervous system certainly. As it is, the use

I am of is to enable you to visit your natural
home, where your own affinities can you,
without any risk of physical bad effects afterwards.
At all events, I can guarantee you
from those."

I am sure you can. I feel exhilarated,
and altogether a superior person to what I
was before. But now suppose — since your
power over me is so complete — that you send
me forth again to seek my fortune, and make
me remember this time all I shall see."

Marston demurred to this proposal, however,
and Mrs. Malcolm also had a feeling
against it. There might be some risks inforcing
Miss Kinseyle's capabilities too much
at first. She might not be aojain able so soon
to realize the former vision a second time.
There were all sorts of psychic risks to be
considered. Edith be^o-ed to be allowed one
more excursion, but with affectionate and
respectful resolution both her friends clung
to the idea that enough had been done for a
first attempt.

Now, if you will let me mesmerise you a
little," Marston said, "to restore your physical
strength completely, in case that has been

tried in any way, we can conclude the performances."


Mesmerise me by all means' replied
Edith. " I shall go to sleep again under it,
and we will see what happens."

Marston took his place again by her side
at once, but assured her she would not be
able to go to sleep this time, however much
she might desire it.

It is an influence of quite a different kind
that is upon you now," he said, as he touched
her forehead again, and then began long
passes over her, from her head to her waist.
"You are not feeling sleepy this time, are
you r

Edith shut her eyes and pretended to be
going to sleep, but could not keep her
countenance loner, and laughed with a mock
protest against the tyranny she was subject
to.

Well, then, I submit," she said, as
another idea crossed her fancy. " I will not
go to sleep. This time you shall not put me
to sleep. I defy you to do it. I'm sure you
can't."

"That's the risrht attitude of mind at

present," Marston returned, in a tone of
perfect satisfaction. " That will prevent you
going to sleep, and will keep all the mesmeric
influence on the physical plane. Besides,
since you will not go to sleep, I would not
attempt to constrain you for worlds."

Not even to be goaded or taunted into
giving way, Mr. Marston ?" said Edith, with
an affectation of stiffness. " Do you know, if
it was not for one consideration, you would
fall under the frightful weight of my displeasure
?"

And what protects me V 9

Glancing up for a moment with a gravity
of expression sweeter, under the circumstances,
than any smile could have been, she
answered :

"The fact that I trust you altogether — to
know best and to do best."

Marston made no immediate reply in words,
but looked the thanks that could perhaps only
have been weakened by expression. He
went on with the mesmeric process for a
little while, and then said :

I think you will be none the worse now.

Perhaps rather stronger and more vigorous
than before."

During the conversation that had immediately
followed the trance, Mrs. Malcolm
had opened the shutters again. They
now went back for a time to their former
seats in the recess of the window, and fully
talked over the achievement of the afternoon
in all its bearings. The settlement of a plan
of future operations engaged their serious
attention. The proceedings of the afternoon
had been clearly experimental in their nature.
It was impossible on the face of things for
Mr. Marston to be constantly coming down
from London and meeting the ladies at
Kinseyle Court, when no one would be able
to understand why, if his business with them
was so important, he should not go to one of
their houses. Besides, Mrs. Malcolm was at
Highton and Edith at Compton Wood.

"There is only one satisfactory plan, and
that is for Miss Kinseyle to come and stay
with me at Richmond."

That mast be done soon, if it is to be
before I go to the Miltenhams," Edith
su forested.

,; I have nothing to say except that you
can command my attendance at Richmond
whenever you choose."

And till we meet again there I fall back
into my original helplessness. Can't I do
anything by myself, don't you think, Mr.
Mars ton. It is frightfully tantalising to be
told one is such a wonderful creature, but to
feel all the while the most ordinary sort of
clay, incapable of doing anything oneself."

I do not know enough yet," said Marston,
u of the object in view to be able to give
any advice. Great spiritual potencies of
some sort are clearly interested in you. That
you should get used, under mesmeric treatment,
to freer intercourse with them, is clearly
in the programme, but till they have told us,
through you, something more of what is
wanted, we can only wait, it seems to me,
and go on as we have begun."

Couldn't I learn something of the knowledge
you possess ? Can you tell me any
books to read against the time when I shall
meet you next V

I might send you some books, if you wish
it, but you are exempt really from all need of

taking the trouble which we humbler mortals
have to take."

I forbid you to make fun of me, Mr.
Marston."

I'll remember the order if I am ever
tempted," said Marston, "but it is not
relevant to what I was saying. It is not
worth while for me, is it, to prescribe rules
for you to follow in order to get blue eyes or
golden hair — or to acquire the faculty of
clairvoyance?"

"But above all," put in Mrs. Malcolm, "it
is not necessary for us to be making any
programme for the time between this and our
establishment at Richmond. That might bea
few days hence, if Miss Kinseyle can
arrange to come."

And with the resolution that the plan
should be carried out without loss of time
they ultimately parted. Marston would not
be driven back to Thracebridge. He would
not consent to so long a detour for the ladies.
They all walked down the avenue together,
and the ladies got into their carriage at the
gate, Marston setting off on his walk in the
opposite direction. He turned to look after

them as long as they were in sight. Edith
looked back and waved her hand, her face
bright with one of her sunniest smiles ; and
again just before a bend in the road carried
them off finally, he saw that she turned
and repeated the sign, though the distance
was too great to see more.

SOCIAL DUTIES IN THE WAY.

The Richmond plan did nob prove quite such
plain sailing as in the first instance both Mrs.
Malcolm and Edith had supposed it. Mrs.
Malcolm came over to Compton Wood the
following day to lay her proposals formally
before Mr. Kinseyle, but found the usually
quiet household already invaded by visitors.
Mrs. Miltenham, accompanied by one of her
daughters, had driven over from Deerbury
Park, on the other side of the county, a two
hours' drive, having announced her coming by
a letter, which reached Compton Wood by
the early post in the morning. An old
friend, Lady Margreave, she explained to
Mr. Kinseyle and Edith, who lived in
Westmoreland, had been asking her to go
and stay there. She had arranged to go fora
week or ten days, at a date that had now

all but arrived ; and Lady Margreave had
just written to ask her to bring any of her
girls if she was inclined. There was a
wedding in prospect, and this might give rise
to interesting questions about bridesmaids.
It had suddenly occurred to Mrs. Miltenharn
that she might take Edith as one of hersrirls.
Florence, the daughter then with her, and
Edith's principal friend in the Miltenharn
household, could go, and would be delighted
to have Edith go with her. It was a charming
house, sure to be fall of people, and the
visit would be a very pleasant thing for
Edith, and an introduction to very desirable
friends. Then there would be the weddings
when she would assuredly be
welcome as a bridesmaid, and in any case
she had been coming to Deerbury Park in
about a fortnight, so it was merely advancing
matters a little for her to come at
once.

Mrs. Miltenharn had taken the trouble to
come over about this matter in sheer affection
for Edith, and desire to do her a good
turn, and the offer was one that could not be
treated with anv hesitation even. The situation

was explained to Mr. Kinseyle and his
daughter together, and it never crossed the
father's mind that there could be any feeling
on Edith's part concerning the proposal
beyond gratification and eagerness to go.

It is hard upon you," Mrs. Miltenham
had wound up by saying, " to lose her for a
fortnight more than you expected, and a
fortnight sooner; but it is such a pleasant
opening for her, that I felt sure you would
submit to the sacrifice."

Indeed, I should have been shocked if
you could have imagined my selfish desires
could stand in Edith's way. I will not pay
her so bad a compliment as to say I shall
not miss her ; but I would not consent to
have her stop here on my account. I am
ashamed, as it is, to have her with me as
much as I do, with your pleasant house
always open to her."

You know you don't keep me with you at
all, Papa dear ; but I insist on spending some
of my time in the paternal halls. I declare,
Aunt Emma, Papa, in his boundless affection
for me, is always struggling to turn me out
of the house. Extremes meet, and if I were

perfectly intolerable, he could not be more
pressing to have me leave him alone."

"And you do exactly as you choose, my
dear, as usual, in all cases, of course," Mrs.
Miltenham returned. " But that being the
case, perhaps the shortest way will be to ask
if you mean to honour Florence and me
with your company to Hatfield, as I propose."


Edith was not by any means indifferent to
the perversity of fate shown in the overthrow
of the Richmond programme, but she
was too keen-sighted and self-reliant a person
to hesitate under the circumstances. Mrs.
Miltenham's offer was one that could not be
declined without a much more intelligible
reason than any she had to give. If the
pressure of her own inclination in the matter
could have been quite unfettered by complicated
motives, she would probably have
obeyed the attraction of her psychic sympathies;
but she was unwilling — and vaguely
associating the idea of duty with her social
engagements, would even have thought it
wrong — to rebuff Mrs. Miltenham's desire to
bring her forward in the world. She confronted,

in imagination, the unfortunate necessity
of disappointing Mrs. Malcolm, but saw
that what had to be done, had better be done
with a good grace. She reviewed the situation
in this spirit in the time it took her to
cross the room and give Mrs. Miltenham a
kiss, and simply said :

I will forgive you, dear Aunt Emma, for
making me out so headstrong, in consideration
of your having been so sweet as to
come over and arrange this yourself. I will
very kindly honour you with my company,
and am very grateful to }'ou for wanting it.
But it is agonizing to think that I have got
three new dresses getting ready with Mme.
Clarice, that cannot possibly be sent home by
telegraph. They were designed for Deer-bury
Park, and now — but the dilemma is too
frightful to be thought of."

That's one reason why I came over myself,
dear. I must understand exactly how
you are situated."

Having thus taken a serious and practical
turn at once, the conversation was soon
afterwards adjourned to Edith's bedroom —
where a select committee reviewed the

resources of the young lady's wardrobe.
Mrs. Miltenham stayed for lunch, the conversation
at this meal being occasionally
tinged by the preoccupation of the morning.


You had better telegraph, my dear. I
will send on the message for you as we go
back through Wexley. It will save a
day."

"Ought Edith to telegraph herself?" said
Mr. Kinseyle, puzzled. " I did not know
Lady Margreave had mentioned her personally."


"My dear papa, I am not going to telegraph
to Lady Margreave, but to Mme.
Clarice ! How could we be talking of anyone
else at such a moment as this V

We have decided that Edith's things
must be sent on straight to Westmoreland,
and as soon as possible," Mrs. Miltenhani
explained. " She is very fairly presentable
as she is, but she had better order up her
reserves."

Mr. Kinseyle apologized for his mistake,
and declared that it was a great comfort

vol. i. 15

Edith had Mrs. Miltenham's judgment to go
by in such matters.

Mrs. [Miltenham's carriage had been ordered
after lunch, and they were all out on the
lawn waiting for it, the visitors ready
dressed for their departure, when Mrs.
Malcolm drove up.

Edith would have preferred to have received
her alone, but there was no help for
it ; and Mr. Kinseyle, having gone up to
meet her, brought her round the house to
the group in the garden.

Edith received her with warmth, presented
her to Mrs. Miltenham, and introduced her
cousin Florence ; but Mrs. Malcolm's quick
perceptions divined something wrong. She
asked no questions, and made no reference
immediately to the previous evening, but
began on commonplace topics with Mr.
Kinseyle. The newly made arrangements
were none the less disclosed prematurely.

"Well then, my dear," said Mrs. Cheltenham,
as her carriage was seen emer^ino-
from the stable-yard, "this is Wednesday.
We shall see you at Deerbury Park on
Friday by the o.l5 train. Come with your

maid to the Milton Wick Station, and I'll
have a carriage to meet von. Somebody's
sure to be with it, to take care of you, and
you'll be quite safe. There, good-bye," kissing
her ; " Mr. Kinseyle will see us to the
carriage. Don't both of you come. You'll
be prepared for a long campaign, and I'm
sure you'll enjoy it."

'• I'm sure I shall, aunt," going with them
to the edge of the lawn.

She sent lively messages to the other
members of the Miltenharn family — especially
recommended that her uncle should be encouraged
to bear up cheerfully in the hope of
seeing her on Friday, and waved airy adieus
with both hands as the carriage drove
away.

And now, dear Marian," coming back to
the lawn, and linking her arm in Mrs.
Malcolm's, "come with me to the arbour,
and I'll tell you all about it."

It tells itself, dear, unfortunately," said
Mrs. Malcolm. " You are going away."

11 1 am going away, and our lovely project
is not to be — for the present, at any rate. I
wish things had fallen out differently, but I

15—2

have been obliged to consent to accompany
Mrs. Miltenham immediately on a visit. I
would much rather have come to you, but if
you will have me later on — after my Deer-bury
Park visit, instead of before — that can
still be arranged."

Certainly, I will make you welcome
then, if you cannot come sooner. It seems
a pity, as things began so well ; but we must
trust to the future. It is only your own
welfare I am concerned about, and doing
her will."

Shall I ever climb to your heights, I
wonder % But you are independent — you
have no other wishes but your own to
consult. I must defer to my seniors, and
live the life marked out for me. But I have
not yet told you exactly how it has happened."
And then she went on to give
Mrs. Malcolm all details, and mentioned the
name of the people to whom she was going.

The Margreaves ! You are going to
Lady Margreave's !' cried Mrs. Malcolm,
with more excited surprise in her tone than
she often showed.

Yes ; do you know them V 1

Certainly I know them. I was staying
there quite recently. It was almost from
there that I came here."

What a fanny coincidence."

More so than you can realize as yet. It
must mean something. But I see — that
must be left for your intuitions to discover,
my dear,"

What do you mean, Marian % Don't
tantalize me in this frightful way. What
extraordinary complications are implied in
the fact that I should be invited to Lady
Margreave's '?"

Mrs. Malcolm pondered awhile as she
sat by Edith's side in the little arbour, but
remained perfectly grave, and would not be
beguiled into treating the coincidence as a
mere subject of curiosity.

My dear Edith," she urged earnestly,
I do not love mysteries for their own sake,
but one must respect other people's confidences.
I can't speak quite frankly as to
why I was startled when I heard of your
going to Hatfield without betraying other
people's secrets. Besides, you will be
much more likely to be impressed correctly,

if there is anything for you to do in the
matter, if you are not embarrassed beforehand
by knowing too much in the ordinary
way. I was put out and disappointed, I
confess, when I first understood that you
were not coining immediately to Richmond
; but now I see it may be ordered
for the best as it is. Will not that satisfy
you {

It has evidently got to satisfy me, or I
must go unsatisfied. But I shall be on
thorns the whole time to know what it is
that is expected of me. And what a nest of
secrets you are, Marian. There is all Mr.
Marston's stock for you to take care of, to
begin with."

Poor Sidney Marston ! I have known
him a long while, and that is how I come to
know his affairs. He has had great trials to
go through — or rather, he has been mixed
up in great trouble for which he has been
in no way responsible, but it has mostly
fallen on him. There is no reason whatever
why this should impair your confidence in
him."

There ; I will not plague you about ifc

any more. Indeed, I have no petty curiosity
about what does not concern me, and I was
only playing at teasing you to tell your
secrets. You great, calm, strong Marian, I
know you would be invulnerable to my
teasing, any way. However, I do not
believe I shall have any impressions of any
sort at Hatfield, with no Mr. Marston at
hand to wind up my psychic faculties.
You'll see you will be disappointed in me.
Do you know on what exalted occupation —
worthy of the wonderful creature Mr.
Marston made me out — I have been spending
the whole morning % I have been going
over my dresses with Mrs. Miltenham, and
devising orders for Mme. Clarice — thinking of
nothing in heaven or earth but the composition
of my costumes."

It had to be done, I suppose, though I
don't mean to deny that I think you were
better employed yesterday."

I am quite sure of it. And, do believe
me, Marian, whatever distractions may be
forced upon me by circumstances, I shall
always look upon my inner life, that can only
be shared with you, and any others like you,

if there are any, as far the highest and
best."

Mrs. Malcolm made no comment beyond
gently pressing Edith's hand, which she was
holding on her lap. She was too wise and
sympathetic to argue that the highest and
best might still be apt to come off second-best,
treated on those terms, and merely
said :

"I shall always feel that way, too, about
you, dear, however brilliant the worldly
side of your life may be."

They had a long afternoon together, talking
over various interests of everyday life, and
a good deal of Mrs. Malcolm's own married
life, which had been mostly spent in India,
amidst a round of social amusements that
had deeply wearied her, with a husband who
had been kind without being sympathetic —
a colourless life, with no specific griefs, but
leaving a sense of disappointment behind.
The moral of it all, she thought, was that the
routine of worldly existence could not but bea
disappointment for any person with lofty
aspirations. The lesson was of no good at
second-hand ; but as she read it for herself,

it meant that the true purpose of life lay ina
nature beyond the conditions of earthly
ointments, though there was
too much to be done for others in this world
for any clear-sighted person to sink into
a mere forlorn apathy. Towards the latter
part of the time their conversation got thus
on to a higher level than it traversed at first.

idly kindled enthusiasm
spiritual ideas drew her fully into sympathy
with this view, and they talked together fora
long while of the beautiful pr they

were both familiar with ; of the purposes in

bird to them that she might have in \ '.
Hid of the mj r serious link that must unite
them — Edith and Mrs. Malcolm — by reason
of their similar relationship to the Spirit
their visions. That the Spirit in both c
was identic Mrs. Malcolm no longer
doubted.

When at last they
Malcolm bade Edith good-bye for an indefinite
period— for the next day she would hav

1 in preparations, and on the Friday she
would be going — Edith was more acutely
than she had felt at t.

"It is a real misery for me to part with
you, Marian, and I am quite out of conceit
with my new programme, now that talking
with you has made me feel all it costs me.
Good-bye. I shall not really be living till I
meet you again — only playing a part. May
it be sooner than seems possible. I shall do
everything I can to bring that about, and I
shall write to you constantly, and look forward
to your letters as my best events."

I shall be a faithful correspondent, dear,
as long as ever you are, you may depend upon
it." And then the carriage was suffered to
drive away.

IMPRESSIONS BEHIND THE SCENES.

Miss Kinseyle was a good correspondent
while at Garlands. as she had promised to be.
She sent Mrs. Malcolm a bright and lively
account of her journey T and arrival at the
Mary-reave mansion, and one incident of the

o

otherwise uneventful trip had an especial
interest for her friend as bearing on her own
peculiar gifts.

I have had a new sort of experience, too,
I must tell you," she wrote ; ' ( one that seems
very stupid and meaningless, but in your
superior wisdom you may be able to explain
it, and if not you must draw upon the boundless
stores of Mr. Marston's occult knowledge.
"We had to stop at Afford on our way hereto
get our proper train, and waited in the
refreshment-room imbibing tea. As we went
up to a table in one corner I saw an old

woman sitting there, and was just wondering
why Aunt Emma was making for that table,
when there were others vacant, when, having
looked round the room for a moment, I
turned round again to follow Aunt Emma,
when, lo and behold ! — or rather lo without
beholding — my old woman was there no
longer. I could not make out in the least
how she had got away so suddenly, and asked
Aunt Emma what had become of the old
woman. She asked what old woman ; and
appeared to think I was crazy when I would
have it that an old woman had been sitting
at the table a moment before. Neither she
nor Florence had seen any old woman at all.
Then suddenly, a few minutes afterwards,
there was my old woman again standing a
little behind Aunt Emma's chair, and I
somehow felt, though she looked quite lifelike,
that it was not a flesh and blood old
woman at all. I asked Florence, who was
sitting beside me, if she saw anybody, and
she looked at me as if she was wanting the
address of the nearest lunatic asylum. So
then I asked Aunt Emma if she knew anybody
like so and so — minutely describing the

old woman that I was looking at all the while
a dear old soul with a kind, sweet expression,
a bit of black velvet across her forehead
under white hair, and so on. Aunt Emma
fairly started, and said I was exactly
describing her old nurse, who only died a
year ago. The dear old thing seemed to
smile upon her, and then melted away — disappeared
somehow, I don't know how. I
told them I had just seen her, and, as they
know I am not quite canny, they were rather
alarmed and uncomfortable about it, and
wished I would not go on in that strange
way. But I could not feel that the apparition
boded any harm, though they were both
horrified at me when I said I should like to
see her again."

Edith's next letter came a day or two afterwards,
when Mrs. Malcolm had already
returned to her own house at Richmond,
Whither she had requested Miss Kinseyle
to address her correspondence. She was
thoroughly enjoying the pleasant life at
Hatfield, where a house-full of people were
engaged from morning to night in helping
one another to chase the glowing hours, not

only with flying feet in the evenings, but by
every device known to civilized ingenuity in
connection with that kind of hunt.

It seems ridiculous to say I have not had
time to write," she said, " when I have
nothing whatever to do but amuse myself;
but in truth there are so many people helping
me to do that, that I am borne along in a
roaring current of gaiety, and have had to
display the firmness of a heroine in order to
secure a couple of hours to myself to-day
before it is time to dress for dinner. And to
get this leisure I have had to make Florence
read my part for me in the ' Happy Pair,' on
pretence that I will not rehearse again with
Colonel Danby till he knows his words. For
I have to break the news to you that your
frivolous friend, whom you destined for
training, during this period, of so much more
exalted a character, has been found out by
her present admirers as possessing genius of
a surpassing order in a new and hitherto
unsuspected line. I am to eclipse Ellen
Terry and Mrs. Kendal, and all the rest of
them, as an actress, if I fling myself with
sufficient enthusiasm into mv new vocation.

And I am to dazzle creation to begin with by
appearing in the ' Happy Pair ' at some
theatricals in preparation here, acting with
a certain Colonel Danby now staying here,
who has been the discoverer of my undeveloped
capacities. Now, 1 have no
intention of going stage-mad, and hww that
all this is nonsense, and that I am merely
having some fun for the moment ; but to hear
Colonel Danby and the rest of them, Count
Garciola included, you would think I was
the eighth wonder of the world. It makes me
wonder whether I am really a delusion and a
snare in all my aspects, and I look back upon
what Mr. Marston said to me in the Countess's
Study, thinking was he too, perhaps, mistaken
in me and caught by some shallow
characteristics which make me reflect the
ideas of the people about me like a looking-glass.
Write and tell me, dear Marian, that I
am wrong in that supposition, at least ; for
though you will be sighing over me, I know,
I feel — lost as I am in this ocean of frivolity —
I do not want to turn out a delusion and a
snare for you. Really — though it seems
absurd for me to have the vanity to say it,

when I snatch an hour's leisure to do so in
the midst of days spent altogether in the
most useless and uniurproving amusement —
however I spend my outer life, I must
always be leading an inner life too, that such
people as are around me now cannot sympathize
with, so T say nothing about it to
any of them. It is my inner life which unites
me with you, and 1 would not have that tie
broken for all the world.

However, I must tell you about outer
things here, and that is why I mentioned the
theatricals. No more of them, except for
one thing that I must faithfully report.
You know, of course, having been here yourself
so lately, that there is a veritable ' Happy
Pair' at Oatfi eld, besides the make-believe pair
of which I am part. They are to act in another
piece on the eventful evening, in the course
of which they have not got to make love to
each other by any means, but to fight like
cat and dog. They were rehearsing yesterday
afternoon before dinner, and some of us were
looking on, and I was sitting near them to
prompt Terra Fildare if she wanted it. There
was somebody else as prompter in general

but she had insisted on having me as a
prompter all to herself, and I was holding
her book and attentively following her great
speech, wherein she reviles the wicked gipsy
in the most slashing manner, when all of a
sudden I got a feeling I have never had
before. It seems perfectly ridiculous to say
so, but I can only describe it as a feeling of
horror! There was nothing whatever to
cause it. The room was half full of people ;
it was daylight still ; we were all in the
midst of laughing and talking, and above all
I saw nothing — nothing, I mean, of our sort
that other people do not see — to explain
the feeling. Then again, you know, it does
not horrify or frighten me in the least when I
really do see apparitions. Well, I felt my
flesh creep all over, and a trembling set in
just as I can imagine I might feel if I were
suddenly to see a murder committed ; and
then, for the first time, it flashed upon me
what I had not understood before, about
Terra Fildare and Count Garciola.

Do you remember when Mr. Ferrars
tried to mesmerise me at Kinseyle Court, and
I told you something about a man and a

vol. i. 16

woman and an atmosphere of anger or
quarrelling around them ? I had been vaguely
puzzled about them from the first time we
met, with a sort of sense of having seen them
before ; and though I could not identify it, I
came to the conclusion that I might have
seen them, without being introduced, somewhere
in London last year, when I was with
the Miltenhams. But all at once it came
over me like a flash yesterday that where I
saw them before was in that queer sort of
half-and-half vision at Kinseyle Court. I
tell you, dear Marian, I recognised them.
Don't tell me I am dreaming — but I know you
will not do that. You will understand me,
and be able to give some wise explanation of
my strange feeling. It did not altogether
pass off for a long time. What does it mean ?
If I foresaw, in some clairvoyant way I do
not understand, their theatrical quarrel, it
makes out my impression to have been
very ridiculous, because there is no real
quarrel in that at all. They are devoted to
one another really, and though Terra Fildare
is reserved and haughty about it before
people, I know she unbends tremendously at

other times to make up. And why should I
get so absurdly frightened and overcome
about a ridiculous make-believe emotion in a
drawing-room play ? Explain, explain, my
sorceress and oracle ! Rede me the riddle."

Mrs. Malcolm was deeply perplexed by
this slight and shadowy incident. Starting
with the assumption that there was some
especial significance in the circumstances that
had taken Edith into the presence of Terra
and her new lover just at this juncture, she
had carefully refrained from saying a word' to
Edith which might have set her imagination
to work in regard to those two persons. But
she (Mrs. Malcolm) had been on the look-out
for some sign of an occult character through
the clairvoyance which might give the clue
to the mystery. Here, quite spontaneously,
a sign, such as it was, seemed to have come ;
but what was to be made of it ?

"I am utterly helpless," she wrote, "in
regard to your strange experience about Miss
Fildare and Count Garciola, but I am very
far from treating it as unimportant or
meaningless. It is bitterly tantalizing to be
so built round by circumstances of the world

16—2

and society that our best nature is only to be
developed at stray moments that can be
caught at in passing, when the serious
business of worldliness, which is of such little
moment in the long run, may happen to
allow. If you could only be put into a
proper trance, and asked what is the meaning
of the impression you had, we should know
all about it, and if there is any important
warning lurking in the sign sent to you, we
might all be guided by it. I would do anything
to have you with me. for half an hour
only, with Mr. Marston to put you off — since
he has the right influence which suits you — but
I can only fret against the fate that does not
permit this. Are you surprised that I take
the thing so seriously ? If people of the
world would only realize sometimes how
frivolous are the things they treat so serious,
and how serious some of the trifles they put
aside with contempt ! Perhaps Terra Fildare
is in face of some danger, of which the
theatrical quarrel is a mere symbol, and weare
half warned of it, without, unless we can
learn more, being able to give her any warning
of the smallest value. Dear Edith, don't

think of me as sighing over your worldliness
in a gloomy and Puritanical way, because you
are enjoying your life and your youth, and
the very natural admiration of the people round
you ; but all I entreat is, do not forget that you
have faculties and senses that may render
important the least of your fancies and impressions
as they cross the current of your
amusements, which may obscure but cannot
quench your higher intuitions. If you notice
any other strange and apparently causeless
feelings about Miss Fildare or her betrothed,
do not treat the least of them as insignificant.
Tell me about them, I implore you. More
may hang on this than you imagine, for I
may tell you now that, owing to my own
feelings, I had been expecting you to have
some abnormal impressions of that kind,
though I could not in the least foresee what
they would be."

Edith was set on the qui vive for impressions
concerning the betrothed couple by the
receipt of this letter ; but the days went on
without bringing her fresh warning. She
tried to make friends with Terra Fildare ; but
the two girls, though unconscious of any

reasons why they should not coalesce, did
not, as a matter of fact, grow closely sympathetic.
And they were kept apart, to
some extent, by circumstances, as Terra
w T as pre-occupied by her love affairs, while
Edith, being game on the wing, so to speak
not yet brought down by any man's gun —
was more pursued by general admiration.
Two young men staying in the house — a
captain of Hussars and a political private
secretary — both engaged with fishing as
the serious occupation of life, made fierce love
to her in their leisure hours, and the Colonel
Danby to whom reference had been made in
her letter coached her in the histrionic art.
The Colonel was a handsome widower, between
forty and fifty, rich and well connected,
tall, slightly built, a mirror of
fashion as regards his dress, with bright
grey eyes, a moustache dappled with grey,
dark brown hair that only showed the effects
of time by a gradual disappearance from the
crown of the head, while above his temples
it still waved with moderate luxuriance.
With a faintly lackadaisical manner, he was,
nevertheless, a man of taste and intelligence

and always expressed himself with an easy
finish of language that corresponded to his
somewhat dandified toilet.

Coaching a young lady, recommended by
good looks and a bright gaiety of disposition,
in a sentimental comedies, is a seductive
occupation.

Colonel Danby declared that the natural
gifts Miss Kinseyle possessed were so undeniable,
that it really was worth while to
take trouble — and he was an acknowledged
professor on the amateur stage.

"You only want drilling in details," he
explained, after they had gone through the
most critical scene towards the end of the
piece twice one afternoon, and he was suggesting
a third repetition of certain u business."
"No two young actresses can be
trained alike. Some, if they are badly off
for brains or hearts, must be taught to
simulate the emotions they ought to feel
as they act. They are the pupils who
always tell you they will do what you want
all right on the night — and they never
do!"

But they get off so much drilling in that

way — clever girls ! From this moment I
resolve to trust to the inspirations of the
night."

Do, by all means. That is a safe course
for you, because the brains and the heart
will give you the right inspiration. But you
have fallen headlong into my snare. I am
never attempting to teach you how to display
emotion. I leave that to your own.
imagination. I am teaching you the mechanical
business, the drudgery of your art.
That's a matter of knowledge, and not of
inspiration, and so I can help you. Feeling
may give you the right expression when you
say your best bits ; but for want of knowledge
you may turn your back to the
audience when the features pass through
their most delicate crises."

"And for the penalty of having fallen
into your snare am I to lacerate my
heart over your cruelty a third time this
afternoon T

Never mind giving rein to the imagination
now. I do not ash you to wear out
your feeling for the part, but to get into the
habit of standing in the right places at the

right time, making the right gestures, and soon.
Then on the night your performance is
ready to be illuminated by the poetry of
feeling turned fully on. In the dramatic art
as in all others there is a technique which
has nothing to do with its poetry, but without
which the poetry will never be transmitted
to the spectator."

Once more into the breach, then ; once
more let us toil at our pleasure."

And if one young lady, through this little
experience, should realize that to get pleasure
worth having one must toil, the afternoon
will not certainly be thrown away."

u Are we all so frivolous as that would
imply P

"Not taught in the same school that men
go through, the school of life, that shows
exertion and enjoyment everywhere hand-in-hand.
The boy learns the lesson at football
and cricket, the man in the hunting-field and
in his profession, or in political life, perhaps ;
and every man worth having acts on the
principle by instinct. A girl floats into the
world without always realizing the secret that
unlocks its best treasure."

But if they are lazy, and other people are
good-natured, it may be so nice for them to
be saved all trouble."

Saved all trouble, all hard exertion, all
rough contests beyond their strength — yes,
by all means. That is according to the fitness
of things. But though the men who shield
them and take trouble for them may enjoy
their task most keenly, the women themselves,
who take no trouble, will enjoy life
least. The rough and violent trouble of this
life is for men to take ; but, believe me, women
in their way may be the counterparts of those
keen sportsmen of the sterner sex, who get
the best out of life in all directions."

I never supposed you were so desperately
energetic a person."

Because I am cool in my movements, and
behave quietly and dress like a gentleman.
One may be a keen sportsman in costume
even ; and if a man wants to make himself
as presentable as he can he must take pains,
though the pains taken may not be paraded.
Let us come back to our play. The enjoyment
other people will take in seeing you act
will be somewhat greater if you act well than

if you act badly. But the difference in the
enjoyment you will derive from it, according to
whether you take trouble beforehand and act
well, or let everything slide and act as badly
as your natural gifts will allow you, will be
immense."

'•'Your wisdom is overwhelming, but I am
so sure to enjoy myself when the play is over,
that I can't feel terrified by your warning.
Nevertheless, you have vanquished me in
argument, and I am your prisoner. Command
me, and I recommence my sobs ;
standing with the right foot foremost and the
handkerchief in both hands, is it not "

What V cried Terra Fildare, coming
into the drawing-room where the rehearsals
were going on, " you poor, dear, over-driven
slave, are you still in the hands of the overseer
% I thought you were liberated an hour
ago."

To quote my maid, I am ' that stupid '
that I have Quot to go over the last scene
again. I forgot to tell you that, Colonel
Danby. It was such lovely criticism — it was
so straightforward. ' Is it much trouble
learning to act, miss V my maid asked me

last night. ' Frightful trouble for me, Sims
I told her. * That's the worst of learning
anything, miss,' she answered ; ' and if
one is that stupid about it, I don't think it's
worth while.' "

For a mimic with your talents, Miss
Kinseyle, I should say Simcox must be a
perfect treasure."

But I want you to try that duet with
me," said Terra. " Is there any distant
future when you will get out of Colonel
Danby's clutches ¥'

Certainly not," said the gentleman named,
if Colonel Danby is permitted to decide. The
'Happy Pair' is merely a maiden sweepstakes,
and I hope I shall see Miss Kinseyle win a
Derby yet in some London theatricals worthy
of her powers."

But, limiting eternity by the dressing-bell.
Terra, even then I will not go on forever.
I'll join you in the gallery in three
half seconds, if you'll get the piano open."

But please observe," said Colonel Danby,
that if you go round that side of the table
you will have to bury your sobs in the
wrong sofa cushion, and then the whole

effect will be spoiled. That's right ; if
you'll solemnly promise to keep the table on
your right hand always, I will not torment
you any more to-day."

Don't mind my nonsense," said Edith.
I'm not a bit tired, really ; and I am cultivating
quite a taste for taking pains. But I
must go now to Miss Fildare, for Sir James
is sure to insist on that duet this evening.
and she wants to get it up, I know."

The " Happy Pair " came first on the night
of the performance, and Edith achieved a
most triumphant debut. The arrangements
of the night were complete enough to give
an air of reality even to the shower of bouquets
with which the debutante was greeted, as
she passed before the curtain in response to
an enthusiastic call ; and Colonel Danby
gathered them up with graceful promptitude,
placing the finest — which had been thrown
by Sir James Margreave — in Edith's hands,
while he bore the rest on her behalf.

I am sure the flowers ought to be half
yours," she said, when they got behind
again. " I am entirely the product of your
careful coaching."

Not half mine," said the gallant Colonel.
This much of the bouquet " — drawing his
finger round almost the whole of it, as he
transferred the flowers he held himself to his
left arm — " is due to your natural talents, and
so much " — picking out a single rosebud from
the edge — " is due to my teaching. May I
keep my share T

Edith smiled pleasantly at the compliment
and the courteous grace of its delivery.

With my grateful thanks — most certainly
I"

I dare say it will last longer than your
share," he added, as he put it in his buttonhole.


Some of the anxious performers who were
to appear in the next piece were standing
near them at the time, but, absorbed in their
own affairs, paid no attention, and the two
sat down on a sofa in the roomy wings,
created for the occasion by a skilful adaptation
of a conservatory to this purpose.

"But now," said the Colonel, getting up
almost immediately, " I must prescribe for
you. You will admit that I have not pressed
you to take champagne till now. I do not

approve of it to act upon, but after the
nervous excitement of your triumph, it will
be a sedative and not a stimulant."

He left her to go in search of the wine ;
and while she remained lying back in the
corner of the sofa, a little tired, but thoroughly
enjoying the pleasant flavour of the applause
still ringing in her ears, one of the actors,
ready dressed for the next piece, passed close
in front of her. He was dressed as a gipsy,
and so completely disguised that she did not
immediately recognise beneath the black and
red velvet and leather trimmings the true
wearer — Count Garciola. Writing the following
day to Mrs. Malcolm, and describing her
impression, she said, after quickly and slightly
'sketching the events of the evening so far :

And now I come to the important part
of my story, because it has to do with something
different from frivolous nonsense and
passing amusements. I was resting, on a
sofa behind the scenes after the play was
over — left to myself for a few moments as it
happened — when one of the actors came by
ready dressed for his part, quite a disguise, a
gipsy's dress, and I did not recognise him

at once. But as I looked up, with my
thoughts a hundred miles at the time from
anything psychic, I saw him with some other
sense besides eyesight, and it is most difficult
to describe the thing to you just as it occurred.
For an instant I thought his dress was
smoking as if it was half on fire. He seemed
to move along in the middle of a kind of
pillar of cloud — nothing of a regular shape,
but lumpy and massive round the upper part
of him. But this moved with him, you
understand, and was not left behind like
smoke. Tt was dark in colour, with a lurid
reddish glow, but irregular and patchy — more
dark in some places, and more red in others.
I gazed in wonder, but he was not thinking
of me, and took no notice. He passed in
front of my sofa, and round by the end I
was leaning on, and for a few moments he
stood quite near me — within reach if I had
put out my hand — for some one else came by
behind me, and spoke to him in passing. Ashe
stood in this way, the cloud round him
wafted up against me, and then it gave me
the strangest impressions. First of all a
horrid thrill of feeling, something like what

I wrote to you about before, that made me
suddenly turn almost faint, and then — it was
just as though, when the cloud touched me,
I suddenly saw in it, as in a kind of infinity
that stretched all round me, an endless
quivering mass of tableaux vivants, all
mixed up together in the wildest confusion,
but all of the same kind ; all some sort of
scene of violence in which the man in the
middle of the cloud was engaged. For the

o ©

moment I seemed to have his whole life
whirling before me, and things it would take
hours to tell seemed flashed upon me with
such violence that my brain was all thrilling
in a wav I can't describe. It gave me the
feeling, as it were, inside my head, that you
have, don't you know, in a fast train when it
suddenly dashes over an iron bridge, and the
whirring uproar is distracting while it lasts.
But I do not mean that I could now set to
work and write down his biography. I could
not do anything of the kind. But I have
got the impression that I have known, though
I have forgotten, everything, even down to
details. All I can say, now, is that it is
a horrible story. There are many women
vol. i. 17

mixed up in it, one in particular, whose image
flashed as it were out of a dozen corners at
once, and, since you commanded me, dear
Marian, so earnestly to tell you all my impressions,
I will say that this woman seems
to be his wife. I don't mean to say that I
recognise Terra's features in the image — one
hasn't time to question an impression of that
sort before it is gone — but the idea that this
woman was, or was to be, his wife — for I
suppose I must look on all these dreadful
pictures as prophetic — was borne in on me as
if by a series of violent sledge-hammer blows,
if you understand what I mean, on the rafters
of the bridge, heard through the deafening
din as I dashed through. Of course you will
understand there was no noise really ; it was
the racking thrill in mv head that I am
wanting to indicate to you. For one instant
I can remember I seemed to see the woman
I am speaking of with a dagger in her hand,
and he grasping her wrist and throwing her
back on the ground. And then I can
remember instantaneous flashes of her seen
in tears and despair, or in fury, and half the
pictures I saw all the while seemed swimming

in blood. A few moments longer, I must
have screamed or fainted ; but suddenly all
the sights around me seemed to shrink
together again, and then I saw that the
Count had passed on and was walking away
for the man in the gipsy dress, you will
understand, was Count Carniola. It has
given me such a feeling of horror for him
that I can't bear the sight of him, and found
myself manoeuvring this morning to avoid
the risk of possibly having to shake hands
when I first met him at breakfast.

"I am fairly longing for a talk over the
whole thing with you, and for a healthy
refreshing bath of your good influence, dear
Marian, after all this. 1 wonder if I could
manage a day or two with you before
Deerbury Park, after this visit is over. I
should so much like it.

And Colonel Danby, when he came back
with some champagne he had been to fetch
for me, thought my prostrate nervousness
was all due to the excitement of the play.
It was so ridiculous. I couldn't explain to
him exactly what had happened, but I told
him after a while that, though I had nearly

17—2

fainted, it was not the play at all, but merely
something in the nature of a ghost that I had
seen — that I often saw such things, and that
sometimes they made me uncomfortable. It
made me laugh, the way he summed up my
case, and put everything down to hallucinations
conjured up by my highly-strung artistic
temperament, and recommended riding, and
lawn-tennis played earnestly, as the best
preservatives from those sort of attacks in
future."

Mrs. Malcolm telegraphed to Sidney
Marston within ten minutes of reading this
letter, and be^o-ed him to come over and
consult with her that day if possible. The
afternoon found him at her service in the
drawing-room of her little Richmond villa,
overlooking a sloping garden running down
to the river. Mrs. Malcolm had no children,
and lived by herself — when not visiting
friends — in this quiet and graceful retreat,
with a middle-aged man and his wife to look
after her house, garden, and pony-carriage,
and a couple of maids. She would sometimes
have her brother to stay with her for a
time — sometimes one of many feminine

cousins — but just now she was by herself.
Marston was soon put in possession of all the
facts of the case. As to the relations between
Terra Fildare and Ferrars, he was acquainted
with these already ; and now he was given
Edith's letter to read, and asked for advice
in the emergency.

Is there any way of combating the
frightful menace that seems hanging over
that misguided girl, or do you take an impression
like that to be fatally prophetic V

I should be inclined," he said, " always
to take a prophetic vision as a menace rather
than as a fatality, constantly as we find such
things verified by events. It is one of the
greatest mysteries how the future can be
foreseen, when any future event is the product
of a multiplicity of circumstances and
independent acts by an indefinite number of
people. But, of course, future events are constantly
being foreseen by clairvoyants, down
to their smallest details, though the world
at large, in its ignorance, prefers a lazy
disbelief in the facts to the effort of attempting
to account for them. On the other hand,
the prophetic vision may never do more than

reveal the tendency of events as they stand
at any given moment, and by the exercise
of energy sufficient to control them they maybe
guided into a new channel."

After a little more vague metaphysical
speculations on the subject, Marston threw
out a new idea.

But is it just possible that the vision or
impression caught by Miss Kinseyle from
this man's aura may not be prophetic at all,
but strictly retrospective ?"
'' How do you mean ?"
Ci Suppose the wife is not Miss Fildare in
the future, but some other wife in the
past !"

Ah, that is an idea ; but I never heard
he had been married before. If he had been
a widower he surely must have told Terra,
and Lady Margreave would know, and I
think she would have mentioned it to me."

But suppose there might be no widower-hood
in the matter ? It is merely a guess ;
but suppose Count Garciola, who is clearly a
reprobate, and is a wanderer about the w r old,
has left a deserted wife somewhere in Spain
or elsewhere ?"

Mrs. Malcolm gave vent to a low cry of
apprehension and wonder.

One has heard," Marston went on, " of
such eccentricities as bigamy. The Count is
likely to be a man of strong passions, and
Miss Fildare, by all accounts, is a splendid
prize."

Poor infatuated girl I"

It may be wrong to dwell on such a
possibility without more evidence, but one
could only get that — or stand a chance of
getting it — through Miss Kinseyle's higher
faculties properly awakened. If she comes
to you, as she seems to think just possible,
while the vision she has just had is still
recent, it might be partially recovered in
trance, and then examined more fully."

I do wish she would come. If I can
induce her ; of course, I shall try."

u Do you want," Marston asked after a
pause, "to recover Miss Fildare for George V

Why, the thought has never crossed my
mind, because I have never supposed it
possible. And there would be a long interval
between even the realization of your terrible
suspicion and the restoration of Terra to

UNITED.

George, which, indeed, is not the brightest
dream I could have imagined, though I
suppose it is useless to wish for anything
better for him. His feelings are quite fixed
more's the pity."

She evidently spoke with more in her
mind than she uttered, and Marston, without
directly asking any question, waited silently,
as though expecting further explanation.

I had dreamed my dream on that subject,"
Mrs. Malcolm went on. " I hoped
that George would have been drawn into the
current of a new sympathy, and might have
come to see how infinitely sweeter and nobler
a companion for him Edith Kinseyle would
have been. But I saw almost at once after
they met that it was not to be — that he was
too steadfast."

Marston still remained silent, and his
features were set very rigidly as he gazed out
across the garden, and between the trees
which shaded it, to the gleam of the silver
water beyond. A steam-launch puffed past
the little opening of river visible as Mrs.
Malcolm spoke, and emitted a discordant
cry from its whistle.

Do the boats annoy you much V Marston
said after a little while.

The boats V answered Mrs. Malcolm
vaguely ; " I hardly notice them. Yes," she
went on after a little while, " that would have
been a beautiful plan. It would have given
George every prospect of happiness, and it
would have linked Edith with myself, and
perhaps with higher influences through me ;
but it is evidently not to be. To recover
Terra might not render George really happy
in the long run, but it is the only arrangement
that will not involve him in certain unhappiness.
How hard it is for the bits of
colour in life's kaleidoscope to be rightly
grouped ! And if they are only a little
wrong, how the picture is spoiled !"

Indeed, that is so."

In the earnest depth of his utterance, the
flavour of personal experience was but too
perceptible.

"Who should know it better than yourself,
Sidney V

Mrs. Malcolm and her brother had known
Marston from childhood, and the use of the

Christian name was natural to her when
they were alone.

Of course, my kaleidoscope has been
fatally broken ; but that need not be talked
of."

"Well, I need hardly say T grieve with
you ; but, in one way, I look on you as like
myself in reference to life. We neither of
us live for it, but for something beyond.
Of course, life is no good to you ; but then,
for whom that truly realizes the future can it
be of any good ? It can only be a matter of
more or less patient waiting and performance
of duty."

"We won't insult you by pushing the
comparison too far. But the spirit in which
you and I wait is very different, I fancy.
It is one thing to wait, and merely feel dull ;
and another thing to wait, enduring torture
all the while."

You are morbid. No blameless manlike
yourself should feel the shadow of
another's sin like that."

Another's sin ! I fear I am too cynical
to feel that much ; but another's shame

may dye one's own existence in every
fibre."

Mrs. Malcolm only sighed, as over a
problem for which she knew there was no
solution.

AN INSTRUCTIVE TRANCE.

Mrs. Malcolm bad fretted with so keen a
sense of her own helplessness in the matter
against the circumstances which had threatened
to keep Miss Kinseyle away from herat
this juncture, that she had trusted but
little to the hope Edith had expressed of
visiting her for a few days before she should
go to Deerbury Park. It was with as much
surprise as pleasure, therefore, that she
found this proposal suddenly take a definite
shape. Edith had not recurred to it again
in her letters, and only at the last moment,
about a week after the night of the theatricals,
w T rote to say that she would come to
Richmond for a few days if Mrs. Malcolm
would telegraph that she could receive her,
and would meet her, or have her met, by
such and such a train in London. The

answer had flashed back without a moment's
loss of time, and George Ferrars — then in
London wearing out a period of leave he had
taken from his appointment at the Hague —
was commissioned to meet the young lady at
Euston Square and bring her on to Richmond.
They arrived in comfortable time
for dinner, to which feast Marston had also
been summoned. Mrs. Malcolm and Edith
had a little time to themselves in Edith's
room beforehand.

It is quite enchanting to be with you
again, Marian," the girl declared. " And
what a cosy nest you have here, with an
exquisite view and sheltered privacy. What
a pleasant room !"

It is very good of you to have come,
dear. Your feelers will have told you how
much I wished it''

"It is very sweet of you to have wanted
me ; but for my part, I have had an undercurrent
of longing to be here all the while I
have been at Hatfield — charming as the visit
has been. And that grew stronger, instead
of waning with time. Only I was afraid
Aunt Emma might raise insuperable objections.

I diplomatised at last with exquisite
skill — infected with Sir James's
genius — and carried my point by surprise at
a happy moment."

In the great world, but not yet hopelessly
and exclusively of it," Mrs. Malcolm
said, with an affectionate caress.

Not yet ! — as if you had almost given
me up for lost."

You can't but be fought for by contending
forces, my dear, and one or the
other will conquer in the long run. Do you
remember the vision I had of you at Compton
Wood, as you balanced yourself on the
fender 1"

My own private tight-rope ! I had
quite forgotten."

However, I don't see the least change
in you. You are as — as natural and — well,
I won't pay you compliments, I dare say you
have had a surfeit of them — as much yourself
as ever — your best self."

And nowhere so much as with you — my
real self — with nothing reserved and locked
up in my inner nature, as has, of course,
been always the case up there. And now I

find you looking so well I have nothing
more to ask after, for your brother has told
me already that Mr. Marston is just as
usual."

He is coming here this evening."
Capital ! Then are you going to set to
work upon me at once V

Are not the moments precious V
"Ah! if life had fewer complications"'
Edith sighed, acknowledging all that the
question implied. " But tell me, now, have
you been desperately disappointed in me \
Because you expected some psychic justification
for my visit to Hatfield, and I do not
see that I have done more than .form an
extreme dislike for Count Garciola, and
acquaint you with that mighty fact."

My dear, I do not see how you could have
done more, all by yourself. You have given
us a clue. But now I must tell you some things
to guard you against otherwise accidentally
giving needless pain by talking of people at
Hatfield. My poor brother George was in
love with Terra Fildare, and she made the
election you know of."

11 Goodness ! Did she know V

Certainly ; and for a long while. That
is all I need say. You will know now where
the ice is thin."

They had a long gossip, and the little
dinner party was so intimate as to put
hardly any restraint on its continuance
when they went downstairs. Edith met Mr.
Marston with the frankest cordiality, and his
manner was always so subdued and self-effacing,
that his own gravity, and his silent
observation of her as she talked, were in now
T ay remarkable, nor suggestive of any abnormal
emotions claiming especial restraint.

Mrs. Malcolm had given much thought to
the problem how far to tell her brother
what Edith had told her about her impressions
of Count Garciola ; but, unwilling on
all grounds to shut George out from any
mesmeric evenings they might have while
Edith should be with her, she had decided
finally that it was best to tell him all she
had said, only suppressing the conjectures
that had been built on the narrative by Mr.
Marston. But their talk during dinner
avoided the critical topic, and only touching
lightly, while the servants were with them,

on the incidents of their last meeting at
Kinseyle Court, went off into the depths of
mystic science generally, in connection with
which Marston was drawn to talk, getting
on to the vexed question of prophetic foresight
in its various aspects, and the metaphysical
theories which might be taken to
reconcile the possibility of this with the
sense each human being possessed, of power
over his own acts. And then, after a while,
he wound up hastily some remarks he was
making, and apologised for talking up in the
clouds about such comfortless abstractions.

"It seemed to me" said Edith, "that the
conversation was just beginning to be really
interesting. Please don't talk down to my
level, Mr. Marston ; I would much rather
try and listen up to yours."

Sidney is troubled from time to time,
you know, Miss Kinseyle," said Ferrars,
with spasms of a modesty that is most exasperating.
In another man it would merely
be bidding for applause, but in him it is a
mental affliction to be sympathised with.
We are sorry for you, old man ; but now
you can go ahead again."

vol. i. 18

"It isn't a question of levels, in that
sense," Marston said, with knitted brows and
face a little bent down over his plate. " I
think Miss Kinseyle knows pretty well
where I think her natural level to be."

"But by that theory I have fallen sadly
away from my proper place in the world.
Would that be for my sins in some former
condition of existence ?"

I don't see the signs of the falling
away."

But, look here, Mr. Marston, I am going
to have this out with you once for all. I
like to be thought well of, you know. T do
not object to that at all ; but I should
almost better still like to be able to think
well of myself. You may mean something
that is very nice and pleasant for me, only I
don't understand it in the least."

What I mean is a conjecture — in some
respects at all events — as to the form in
which I put it ; but I think it involves a
great truth. Of course, in the case of each
of us, this organism that we are working
with, the body with all its thinking
machinery, and so forth, is something different

from ourselves. That, we are all
agreed about, here, of course ? No one
would deny that, but the rankest materialist.
But it is such a long idea to work out in
conversation ; it seems hardly "

u He's having a relapse. Can't you administer
something, Miss Kinseyle V'

Go on, Mr. Marston, please. When I'm
tired, I'll tell you to stop ; and till I tell you
you'll go on. Is that agreed V

Veiled by the mock stateliness of her
words and manner, a subtle compliment to
his power of interesting her was embodied in
this injunction, and made him look up with
a pleasant smile. He went on addressing
himself specially to her, and yielding more
fully than before to the stimulating influence
the bright fascination — of her peculiar
beauty.

Well ; what I come to next, working on
from the plain fact that the body is an
organism animated by the soul, is this : the
body may be looked upon as a sort of
instrument played upon by the soul — of
course I use the word ' soul ' in its poetical
and not its technical occult sense."

18—2

What is the technical occult sense V said
Edith.

An intermediate something between the
body and the true spirit ; but if you will let
me put that aside for the moment, it will be
better."

Edith nodded, and he went on :

Well, if we grant that as a hypothesis,
we come to what is clearly then a possibility
that, no matter how great a musician, so
to speak, the soul may be, it cannot get
more music out of the body than the quality
of the instrument enables it to yield."

I see. You mean, that we all feel
possessed of grander ideas than we can
express, of a higher nature than we can live
up to ?"

Not exactly that ; because anything we
feel or think as definitely as that, is a tune
played upon the instrument and within its
capacity. The soul's thoughts on a higher
level than the best capacities of the bodily
brain, will not be susceptible of manifestation
through that brain ; in other words, we, in
our ordinary waking state, can never be conscious
of our own soul's highest thoughts —

though, certainly, impulses of feeling may
reach the incarnate consciousness which are
in a manner reflections of the higher state of
consciousness ; but that is a later complication
of the idea."

But if we are cut off from the best part
of ourselves in that way, and from its
thoughts, how are we to know anything about
them, or know that we ever have such
thoughts ?"

;i I think we may know, in the sense of
being able to feel, by indirect methods quite
sure, about the real state of the case.
Firstly, we have the great method of mesmeric
trance. It is constantly observed that
clairvoyants of humble education and no
great intelligence will talk, in the mesmeric
state, up to a far higher level than they
apparently belong to ; and, in the same way, I
think, every clairvoyante will, in the mesmeric
state, in some way, transcend his or
her natural or ordinary states."

"Even me," said Edith lightly, with the
intonation that implied she was ranking
herself low down on the scale.

Even you," replied Marston, with a very

different intonation that gave the phrase the
opposite meaning. " However fine the
natural brain may be, as an instrument, the
soul can think and perceive on a higher level,
and, under the peculiar conditions of the
mesmeric trance, reveal or record its perceptions
by the lips of the sensitive. But there
is another way of getting at the idea that
the complete soul is a greater Being than the
soul as it speaks through the body in ordinary
waking life ; and that is the general review
of what may be called the spiritual and psychological
necessities of the case, if you think of
the way in which the soul must really grow
or evolve as time goes on."

Marston paused every now and then as he
spoke ; but no one interrupted, and he could
not misunderstand the general desire that he
should developed his theory more fully.

You see, it is nonsense, really," he said,
to think of the soul, incarnate in the body,
as having taken its rise there. It is far too
great a manifestation of the exalted potencies
in Nature to be grown in that casual fashion.
If it lives after the body, as we all feel quite
sure it^does, it certainly lived before also.

In other words, its real habitat or home is
on the spiritual plane or planes of nature.
Its manifestation in the body is, so to speak,
a descent into that state of existence. Not
necessarily an unimportant process, or an
accidental collapse of its higher attributes ;
not a fall, but a descent with a purpose : a
descent in search of fresh experience, of fresh
energy — as typified by the classical fable.
Now, I should be disposed to regard that
descent as the growth by the soul through its
contact with matter — of the body, it developed
in each case — which we are often too
much in the habit of regarding as the person,
complete as we see it. But it does not in
the least decree follow that we should necessarily
suppose that the whole soul — if I may
use that expression — subsides into the body
each time it attaches itself to a body, and
partially transfers its consciousness to that
body. It is a difficult idea to realize, because
each person feels to be a complete entity in
himself. But still it is very comprehensible
that the centre of consciousness, which is
impressed with that feeling, might, when
transferred to another plane of nature, wake

up to the use of a host of new faculties, and
thus find its consciousness immensely expanded,
without being any the less conscious
of identity with itself as formerly functioning
in the body."

It's perfectly intelligible," Edith declared.
Don't you think so, Marian V 1

Mrs. Malcolm indicated assent.

"But now tell me," Edith asked, " how
this bears on what we began by talking
about — when we were speaking of our
various levels V

I suppose," said Mrs. Malcolm, as
Marston hesitated a little before framing his
answer, " that he means your spiritual portion
— your Higher Self, may be on a very
high level."

The 'Higher Self is a very good expression,"
said Marston ; " as bringing what
I mean to a focus. I think, after the little
observation we have had of you, even in the
mesmeric state, that we may recognise your
Higher Self as being undeniably on a very
exalted level."

Then why should it have such an inferior
body r

She put the question with perfect simplicity,
following out the train of thought
Marston had suggested, but the turn of the
phrase naturally raised a laugh, and Ferrars
protested :

Miss Kinseyle, I protest, as an admiring*
friend of your lower self, which is quite good
enough 'for the likes of me,' against the
rudeness with which you speak of it from
the heights of your Higher Self. I wonder
what sort of a body hould content you f

Marston did not venture on turning the
opening afforded to the service of a compliment,
and merely said, still keeping to the
serious and philosophical vein :

Relatively to the Higher Self, of course,
any physical organism must necessarily be
imperfect. There are questions that may be
more easily asked than answered about these
mysteries ; but I can imagine that a very
highly developed entity or soul may sometimes
descend into incarnation — or grow a
body — whichever way we like to put it,
under the dictate of some specific and limited
necessity. You may, for instance, have already
gained, and have passed into the permanent

essence of your being, much that I am now
only labouring to acquire. The organism
you have now developed may not have been
required to seek experience in that direction
But remember this is little more than guesswork."


At any rate, Mr. Marston," said Edith,
"it is a beautiful, beautiful theory, even if
the least satisfactory part of it is the last
part — required to make me out a more wonderful
person than I seem. Oh, goodness !
what a contrast it is to be talking about
such things after our frivolities at Oat-field
r

This led to some questions about the
theatricals ; but Edith fenced these, and declared
that after talking about her highest,
she could not drop suddenly down to her
lowest self.

Let me keep, at any rate, on the intermediate
level in which I can listen to Mr.
Marston. And I do not remember, Mr.
Marston," she added, with the resumption of
her mock queenliness, " that I ever gave
you leave to stop ; so you will please continue."


?* I had finished ; and I think it was time
after such a lecture. With your permission,
my next performance will be to get you to
talk — in the way you talked at Kinseyle
Court."

I'm quite ready — whenever you choose."
said Edith.

They had all dined lightly, but still it was
decided they should wait a little while before
attempting any mesmerism, so the ladies
went first into the drawing-room, while
Ferrars and his friend had a cigar. They
were well aware that it would be no compliment
to Mrs. Malcolm to refrain, as she was
known by both to look with a calm but
emphatic scornfulness upon the affectations
which in some ladies' houses condemned
gentlemen guests to privations in this respect.
A few words on this subject led
Ferrars to add :

Yes ; Marian has no littleness. There
are very few women like her."

She is strong and grand : such a splendid
friend for Miss Kinseyle to Jean
upon."

You trust Miss Kinseyle's psychic faculties,

don't you ?" Ferrars asked, after a little
pause.

I'm sure they are of a very fine order.
But we have got to be sure we read their
observations aright."

Marian has told me of some impressions
she has had while staving with the Mar-greaves.
What do you make of all that V

I don't think we have ground to feel
sure yet that we can read those suspicions
aright. They seem to foreshadow trouble.
Whether we can enable Miss Kinseyle to
present them to us in a more defined way, so
that they may possibly serve as warnings for
the person chiefly concerned, remains to be
seen."

"The worst of all this is that such warnings
can hardly ever reach the person chiefly
concerned, and would not be likely to secure
much attention if they did ; especially if
they seemed to come in any way through
myself, they could only be misinterpreted."

Marston did not press any contrary view
of the matter on his friend. They talked on,
round about the subject for awhile.

Ferrars was not, so far, inclined to regard

the statements Miss Kinseyle had made as
having any practical bearing on his own
great disappointment ; and his interest in the
proceedings was not really very keen when
they eventually settled down, in the drawing-room,
to the undertaking Mrs. Malcolm and
Marston had in view.

Miss Kinseyle lay back in comfort in the
corner of a sofa, Marston sat beside her,
and the lights were a little subdued and so
arranged that none should shine directly on
her face.

It gives me such a pleasant, comfortable
feeling — drowsy, but not in the least faint,"
Edith said, as he took her hands to hold fora
little while before attempting to bring on
the trance. " Don't hurry me off too
soon !"

"We will be as deliberate as you please.
Only let us make a bargain that you w T ill
not be too obstinate in refusing to come
back to us after you have been long enough
away."

Whatever does my poor little obstinacy
in the matter signify, when you can pull me
back, nolens volens, whenever you choose —

just as if I was a butterfly at the end of a
string."

I certainly would not be instrumental in
sending you off for a flight unless I felt sure
that I could bring you back."

When I am further advanced, perhaps, I
shall developed a will of my own, and come
and go as I choose. Just fancy, you all
waiting patient and helpless till tomorrow
morning while I should be amusing myself
in another world, and forgetting all about
you. Oh, by-the-bye, you will not forget
to make me remember this time, will
you ?"

Everything of importance. I do not
suppose you will be able yet to remember
everything, but I w r ill try to impress you to
remember the best things. I am not in a
hurry," he added, as he began gently stroking
her forehead. " You shall only go oft*
gradually."

It is such a strong influence. Good-bye,
Marian. I'll remember to give her your
love. Will you remind me if I should forget,"
she said with a smile, looking up at
Mars ton.

He nodded without speaking, and then,
as he drew down both hands slowly close to
her face, her eyes closed, and she remained
quite still, giving a gentle little sigh of contentment.
Marston went on silently, making
passes over her face and head, and presently
she laughed, and her face broke into a smile,
though with the eyes still shut.

Tell me what amuses you," Marston
said.

Is she gone off, then ?" said Ferrars sottovoce
to her sister.

The laugh had not suggested the idea, but
her answer to Marston confirmed it.

The little man in green made me laugh ;
he looks so funny, all changing colours as he
bows to me. Now he's blue."

Ask him if he can give you any information
about your recent visions."

He says he can try to find out anything

I want to know. But — what 1 " Then

she laughed again. " I can't."
Can't do what," asked Marston.
Slip about in the way he does. He's
here, there, and everywhere at once."

Ask him if he knows your Spirit Queen."

He says he will find out anybody I want
him to find out."

Well, say you will give him a trial. Ask
him to find out Count Garciola."

Edith gave a little shudder, and her expression
darkened. Then in a few moments
it changed again, and she moved her head
slightly on her pillow and murmured :

11 Yes ; that will be better."

What will be better ?"

He will show me the way to where the
Spirit Queen is Oh, it was you."

What was it he did V

It was he took me there before, he
says, though I did not see him then. I
remember there was some one with me as I
w T went."

That will be very nice presently, tell
him ; but you must insist on getting him
first to tell you what you want to know about
Count Garciola."

He says I know all about it if I will
only remember. Yes ; so I do ; that's true,
but what a disagreeable subject. What —
were you with me then too \ Why, you go
about everywhere." Again she smiled. "He

says, Why not. It's easy to go about. The
hard thing is to keep still."

Marston patiently resumed his efforts to
keep her attention fixed upon the questions
he wished answered.

But ask your new friend to remind you
what it was you saw about that woman
Count Garciola was treating badly."

'• What woman ? — oh, I remember, his wife.
She tried to kill him. Horrible people, all
of them. It was on account of the other
woman, but he drove her away, and she is in
great distress now."

Now P said Ferrars, in a whisper to his
sister, looking at her in bewilderment ; " what
does it mean V

Hush !" Mrs. Malcolm whispered back.
u Don't speak ; listen, but control your feelings
even, for the present, or you may disturb
her."

Are you talking," asked Marston, " of
something that is going to happen in the
future, or of something that has happened
already ?"

Edith looked restless and perplexed.

vol. I. 19

I see it all before me as if it was happening
now," she said.

Where is it happening ?"

; Where — I don't know. What — where's
he gone ?"

Has your new friend gone away ?"

Yes."

Wish him to come back."

Oh, he'll be back directly, I am sure.
He's gone to find out something. There !
there he is like a flash acrain. How
funny I"

What is funny ?"

I don't know. He seemed to be so full
of the idea, he splashed it over me."

What idea V

Seville — the woman he deserted is in
Seville."

"You mean his wife by the woman he
deserted."

His wife that wanted to kill him. Yes.
But it makes me feel so uncomfortable. Let
me go away."

Marston looked round at his companions.
.Both looked pale and excited.

*' We mustn't force her' Marston said,

holding: her hand, and resting his other
hand on her forehead. " Have you had
enough ?"

Some further detail, for Heaven's sake,"
said Ferrars.

Directly," Marston said to the clairvoyante
in an earnest soothing voice. " Only
one more question, and then we will be otf
elsewhere. Ask your friend to tell you some
name by means of which we can find the
woman in Seville."

I don't think he wants to 0*0 again."

Remember it is to do good that we want
to know this. Try and bear the discomfort
a little longer for Marian's sake. She wants
to know so badly. And tell your friend you
wish him to find out the name the woman
bears. Is she known as Countess Gar-viola
V

No," Edith said presently in a laboured
voice. " He's gone ; he'll be back soon. I'm
bearing it for Marian's sake : but it makes
me feel giddy and afraid to stand still and
alone like this. What nasty things !"

Don't look at them ; order them to begone.
You are mistress, remember, and they

19—2

must remember it too. The country is pretty
where you are, isn't it ?"

Ah ! there he is again, Hernandez ! That's
the name of the woman, though it's false.
It's over the shop quite plain. I see it in a
square, with a fountain near. Don't hold meany
longer."

There, now you can go on, and your

friend will show you the way. Off you go !"

« Phew— what a relief ! That's delightful."

Tell me something of what you see as

you go along. You must not forget us at

this end of the line altogether, you know."

I can see the line all right ; and bright
mountains all about, cheerful and pleasant.
He draws me along like a feather."

Hasn't he got a name, your new friend ?"
A name ? what is his name ? Any name
will do for him, he says ; I can call him
Zephyr if I like."

Very well. Now you will remember
Zephyr when you come back, won't you, and
what he looks like?"

There he is changing colours and shapes
again for fun ■ but I'll remember. But where
are we % this is not the same place as before.

But oh — h! there she is again; and what
does anything matter !"

Now look at her earnestly, and remember
her appearance above all things, and anything
she says to you. Think as she speaks
to you that you will treasure up her words."

Yes, yes — I shall never forget her. My
Queen, it is heaven to be with you. Ill
never be faithless to her. Xo, never, never !
how could I be ?"

These disjointed exclamations were murmured
slowly, with little intervals between
each, in a tone of rapt adoration.

Her words gradually subsided into an only
half-articulate utterance, though she spoke
with no apparent sense of effort, and the confusion
of w T hat she said seemed merely to
reflect the vagueness of the blissful emotion
she experienced. For a time Marston remained
silent.

She cannot come to harm," he said to
Mrs. Malcolm in a low aside, "in such care
as that. Such a bath of spiritual glory 
a blessing to her. Do you see or feel
anything ?"

I feel her influence strongly ; but I see

nothing. I suppose I am too much excited
about the other matters

think of that just yet, or it may
disturb her."

Edith remained silent now and very still,
her face, as it were, glowing with the emotion
working through her innermost nature. At
last Marston said, speaking gently, as he bent
down by her side, but distinctly :

Is she the same as the Countess ?"

Yes," whispered Edith softly after a
short pause. " She is the same as the
Countess ; but I belong to her too. You
know how it is," she says. " I am to trust
to your intuition to explain it ; and I may
trust you entirely to lead me right."

She moved her hand, as it lay on her lap,
towards Marston as she spoke. He made no
reply, though he took the hand ; but bent
down his head, turning a little away from
her, as though struggling with an emotion
that he could hardly master.

Tell her to remember that," whispered
Mrs. Malcolm behind him ; but he shook his
head.

No, no ; I must use no psychic influence

in that way ; it must be as she chooses. She
will always command my whole soul's loyalty
and devotion to be spent to its last throb in
her service."

The last words were in too low a whisper
to be heard distinctly by the others, and
were breathed rather to Edith herself than
uttered aloud.

How you are dragging at the thread,"
said Edith restlessly.

Marston sat up erect in his chair, and
passed his hand once or twice over her head
and face.

Rest quietly with your Higher Self, till
she in her wisdom sends you back. Give mea
sign when it is time for you to return, and
trust me to take care of the thread."

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

<

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



S'i65u
v. 2

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

thei u d : s i c v'e p :r; y action and may ■*** - —— *-

To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

University OF ILLINOIS Library AT URBANA-champaign

O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/unitednovel02sinn

UNITED

^ flobel.

BY

A. P. Sinners,

AUTHOR OF
ESOTERIC BUDDHISM," "THE OCCULT WORLD,"
ETC., ETC.

IX TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :
GEORGE RED WAY,

YORK STREET, C O V E N T GARDEN.

1886.

v. "&

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. FACTS RECOGNISED 1

II. A NEW PHASE - - --24

III. A PAINFUL REVELATION - - 49

IV. PASSIONS IN CONFLICT - 73
V. A DESPERATE VENTURE - - - 96

VI. PATATRAS ! - - - - - 118

VII. ENGAGED - - - - - 150

VIII. THE MIST CLEARING - - - 173

IX. THE SACRIFICE ACCOMPLISHED - - 193

X. SEEN IN A NEW LIGHT - - - 224

XL RECOVERED - 237

XII. THE FUTURE VISIBLE - - - 259

XIII. THE HIGHER SELF - 284

CHAPTER I.

FACTS RECOGNISED.

Edith lay quite quietly for some five or ten
minutes longer ; and occasionally Mars ton
spoke to her, asking some insignificant
question, whether she was comfortable, contented,
or happy, to keep touch with her
entranced faculties. Then at last she murmured
sadly, " Oh, I don't want to ! No, not
yet," and so on, which Mars ton took to bethe
sign he awaited, though the form of the
language had the opposite meaning.

But you must come back, you know, all
the same. You won't be cross with me if I
pull gently at the thread now, will you ¥'

Yes I shall be," she replied emphatically ;

vol. ti. 20

but, as before, with protests and petulant
reproaches, she nevertheless came to herself
in a minute or two — sinking for a few
moments into total unconsciousness, and
suddenly waking out of this — broad-awake,
without a trace of drowsiness — sitting up,
her bright eyes sparkling, and her senses
alive this time to the situation, before she
asked any questions.

I remember her this time," she said.
Stop, don't say a word any of you. I've
seen my Queen," she said earnestly to Marston,
and I can describe her to you ; at least, I
remember her vividly. What a wonderful
face it is — so beautiful, so sweet, and yet so
exalted in expression."

Edith's own look, as she spoke in her eagerness
and enthusiasm, seemed so closely to
correspond to her own words, that Marston
answered, "I can well believe it," though she
herself was far too excited to think of any
double significance in what he said.

"Did you see her distinctly?" Mrs. Malcolm
asked. " There was no veil or anything to
hide her from you ?"

Edith declared at first — no ; that there had

been nothing of the kind in the way ; but,
coming down to details, found herself less
able than she had expected to give an exact
description. She could not identify her own
attitude while with the Spirit. Had she
embraced her ; had she knelt in adoration ;
had she been touched or embraced by the
Spirit % — she could hardly say. She had the
sense of having nestled up against her,
certainly ; but she could not say whether she
had been standing up or sitting down.
Above all, she was quite unable to say how
she herself had looked when on the spiritual
plane. Had she been dressed as she then
was, or in vague white drapery, like that
she associated with her mental picture of her
Spirit Queen \ She could not say. She did
not remember to have seen herself once
during her flight.

But I remember my guide and companion,
Zephyr," she said, even his name,
which she remembered to have asked him.
Had she asked him for that of her own
motion, or had she done so at Mr. Marston's
instigation ? She thought she had done it
at her own impulse. She did not remember

20—2

being guided to do anything by Mr. Marston.


And yet I know something was said
about you," she said, turning to him with a
look of inquiry. " What was it now V she
pondered and tried to recall the lost idea.
I believe something nice was said about
you ; but I cannot recollect exactly. "

Then, after they had been talking in this
way for some time, she noticed that Mrs.
Malcolm and Mr. Ferrars both looked
agitated.

What is the matter ? Have I said
anything — I don't remember — that affects
you?"

Both persons addressed felt that Edith
was, in a measure, in Mr. Marston's hands,
and did not like to refer to the earlier part of
her trance without his permission. Both
looked at him, and neither replied.

I see no reason for reserve as regards
Miss Kinseyle," he said.

Ferrars was too eager to discuss the
matter to be kept back any longer.

Then, for heaven's sake I" he answered
impetuously, "let us talk freely. What does

it mean ? Is it conceivable that this astounding
story is really true ?"

My dear George," said Mrs. Malcolm,
it would be madness to disregard it ! We
must sound it to the bottom."

But what on earth is the matter ?" asked
Edith.

Marston gave her an account of what she
had said.

Your wonderful gifts," he explained,
were employed on another matter before
you saw the Spirit Queen. We asked you
to elucidate what you had seen at Hatfield,
about Count Garciola, and you did so with
the most splendid perfection. You have told
us " then he went on to sum up the story.

And I told you all that, with her name
and everything. How extraordinary !"

The precision of the details was extraordinary.
You hardly realize as yet the
exquisite quality of your own higher
senses."

"But what is to be done ?" interrupted
Ferrars. "It is quite frightful to think of
the precipice that — that Terra is approaching,
if this be really so. How much time is

there to make use of? Do you know when
they are to be married?" he asked of
Edith.

Not till her father comes from India.
At first it had been arranged for earlier
than that ; but quite lately there came a
telegram from him saying he would come
home at once for the wedding, and declaring
that it must not take place till he got
back."

'' That is a respite for her, at any rate. It
must be postponed for another three weeks
or more. Marian," he said, after moving up
and down the room for a while, and crushing
the others into silence by the vehemence of
his agitation, " there is no middle course to
take, between two, that I can see. One is
to suppose that all we have heard is mere
hallucination, that we must all forget and
never think of again ; and the other is — forme
to go to Seville."

a I never supposed for a moment, George'
said Mrs. Malcolm calmly, '• that you would
do anything else."

u Enough ; I will go tomorrow. I was
longing to ask further questions, but "

Why didn't you ?" said Edith. " Could
I have told more if I had been asked V 9 she
inquired, turning to Marston.

"My dear George," said Mrs. Malcolm,
14 Sidney did as much as was possible, I am
sure. I admired the firmness with which he
held Edith to the point till the essential
information was obtained, though it was
torture for him to resist her entreaties, I am
sure."

Edith looked from Mrs. Malcolm to
Marston with a grateful but still inquiring
smile.

Was I so very rebellious ? Why did you
not make me remember that part, as a
warning to behave better another time ?"

Perhaps your memory would not have
carried too much, and it was better for you
to remember the pleasantness of your visions,
was it not ? It was so important to get a
clue to the whereabouts of the woman, that I
ventured to be obstinate in insisting on that,
even though it seemed distressing to you for
the time. But I should not like to have put
more than a little strain upon your inclinations.
The soul of a sensitive is too marvellously

delicate an instrument to be
handled except with the most tender respect."


Of course — of course," said Ferrars.
Pray don't think I am complaining. With
what has been said I ought to be able to
find the woman, if such a woman really
exists."

He went on to discuss with Mrs. Malcolm
the various circumstances under which it
might be supposed that Count Garciola could
have originally married a woman now living
in a shop under another name.

Meanwhile Edith lay back in her corner,
and Marston still sat in the chair near,
neither speaking, but still under the influence
of the peculiar relationship that had subsisted
between them during the trance. Eventually,
when there was a pause in the conversation
of the other two, Edith said :

Now mesmerize me again, as you did
before, to make me feel strong."

The demand for a further service at his
hands was the sweetest form in which she
could have clothed her thanks for the delicate
care he had taken of her d urine: the

trance. The grave earnestness of his manner,
however, was mixed with no elation. He
merely said :

Very gladly ; though I trust you don't
feel weak."

'' I dare say you know I don't; but the
influence is pleasant."

He resumed the long sweeping passes,
standing over her, that had been employed
satisfactorily on the former occasion ; and
she lay with half-closed eyes, enjoying the
effect on her delicate nervous system.

It's like drinking champagne, Marian,
without any sense of doing wrong, and without
any fear of getting tipsy ; only a hundred
times better than that coarse sort of stimulant."


Mars ton went on and on.

Aren't you getting tired ?" she said at
last.

Physically, no ; not in the least. But I
don't suppose I can do you any more real
good for the moment. What you feel is a
transfer of vital energy ; and you have
probably had as much as I can throw off for
the moment."

She did not quite understand what he
meant at the time ; but presently, after he
had been sitting down again for awhile, Mrs.
Malcolm noticed that he looked tired.

Why, Sidney," she said, " you have
worn yourself out. You look quite faint.
Let me get you some wine."

No, thanks ; that will right itself very
soon. I would not take wine now on any
account."

But, goodness !" said Edith, springing
up ; "you are looking quite faint. Why did
you let me keep you going on ? How stupid
of me ! I forgot."

Marston was faint, and almost giddy ; but
it was a luxurious weakness under the circumstances.


If you will be so very kind as to accept
my stock of energy without regretting that
you have done so, that will give me great
pleasure," he said ; " and for myself, I shall
come perfectly right with a little rest. There
is nothing whatever the matter with me. If
you will not mind, I will go and lie down
for half an hour on the sofa in the diningroom.
I would much rather get strength

back that way than by drinking wine,
thanks."

Edith was beginning, " I am so sorry "

but she saw the finer courtesy of taking the
opposite view of the matter, almost before
the words had crossed her lips. " No ; I
will not be sorry — only much obliged ; and I
feel as strong as a horse."

Marston looked his appreciation of the
impulse that made her say this, and went out
of the room across the hall to the diningroom.
Mrs. Malcolm went with him, left
him comfortably established on the sofa, and
returned to the others.

It must have been the last part of the
mesmerism that exhausted him so, I suppose
?" Edith asked.

Xo doubt. I know that when a sensitive
takes up mesmeric influence, the mesmerist
feels the strain. Xo doubt Mr.
Marston might make passes for an hour
before some people, and merely feel the
muscles of his arm tired ; but }xm are such a
psychic that I suppose you draw off your
mesmerist's vital energy in streams, so to
speak — sop it like a sponge."

I see now that is why I enjoyed it so
much. But it was too bad of nie. I ought
to have guessed "

There's no harm done, dear, I'm sure.
Sidney Marston would cut himself in pieces
for — for such a sensitive as you are ;" she
watched Edith closely though unobtrusively
as she spoke; "he is such a true-hearted
enthusiast."

Edith said nothing in reply that afforded
Mrs. Malcolm any information.

Ferrars' disturbance of mind oppressed
them for the rest of the evening, and
Edith eventually went out for a walk in the
garden. Mrs. Malcolm brought her a cloak ;
but the night was not cold, and in the fresh
air she could work off some of her superfluous
activity. " I am so absurdly buoyant,"
she said, " I should like to play and sing ; but
it would jar too much on Mr. Ferrars just
now. I shall calm down presently."

Then eventually the time came for the
gentlemen to go back to town. When Mrs.
Malcolm went to call Marston she found him
asleep. She went back and debated with
her brother whether he should be waked or

left to sleep on, and ultimately sent to the
nearest hotel if he overstayed the last train.
Ferrars determined to wait himself for the
last train, and stir up Marston in time for
that. Then for awhile Mrs. Malcolm joined
Edith in the garden, and then saw her oft' to
bed. When she came down she looked into
the dining-room and saw Marston awake.
She went in and shut the door.

Sidney, I am glad to have a few words
with you before you go. Are you feeling
better now ?"

Yes ; of course there is nothing the
matter with me. I was exhausted for the
moment, but this little sleep has refreshed
me."

Good ! Then you have all your wits
about you to face a serious problem."

Go on."

You love her, it appears."

She has not seen that ?"

Not that I know of; but of course I did,
during the trance. It is so, is it not ?"

I love her to that extent that, knowing
the situation perfectly hopeless, I ache with
a desire to lie down at her feet and die. I

love her as a man loves who has held out
against everything of that sort till the tension
of his nature becomes something more
than he dreams of, and then it gives way
after all. Oh, Marian ! what have you
spoken of it for? It was better resolutely
ignored."

What nonsense ! How can you goon
like that ? She is not an ordinary
being. She is half a spirit divine. It is
frightful to think of her being engulfed in
mere worldly life, and such a marriage as
she may be guided to by her relations. I do
not say the course before you is easy, but I
say you must face the problem and not merely
drift. Why did you not let her remember
what the Spirit told her, it might have saved
her?"

I should have felt it like debasing psychic
power to the service of my selfish love. To
drag her by a mesmeric influence to take a
step in ordinary life she w r ould shrink from
with horror if she were left to ordinary
reflection, would be shameful criminality forme
— as shameful in another way as the
criminality for which I innocently suffer."

"It is noble of you to feel that way. I
understood and approved all the while that
I felt impatient. But it seems to me that
for her sake it is right to wish that your influence
over her should be maintained and
developed as far as possible. I had plotted
something different from that in my own
mind, as you know. By-the-bye, now I
remember, I spoke to you of that the other
day. I did not know how you were feeling."

Of course not, and the fact that you
never conjectured it ensued most naturally
from the other facts of the case, and would
have been instructive to me, if I had needed
such instruction."

Mrs. Malcolm was silent for a while,
deeply thinking. At last she said —

i( I don't think I would keep up any
mystery about yourself, Sidney. Tell her
all the facts at once. It is better she should
know them now, than come to know about
them later; perhaps it would be a greater
shock then."

Is that said from reasoning or from
intuition ?"

From reasoning, I suppose. I am too

much agitated to have any intuitions just

now."

So I should have supposed, and reasoning
with you is on a lower plane. If my
only purpose were to play my hand so as to
make the most of the infinitely remote chance
of inducing Miss Kinseyle to sacrifice herself
to me, then the course you suggest might bethe
wisest. But I am clear of one thing at
any rate — that I will do nothing to try to
provoke such a sacrifice. . . . Do I love
her ? Well, I am not sorry you spoke of
this. Even to say how I love her, to you
only, is some relief. The feeling has taken
possession of me in a way which makes
existence a kind of frenzy. I think of
nothing else. But with it all I can be cool
and collected with her, just because there is
no issue for the emotion on this plane of
existence at all. It is all in the realm of
imagination. It is so out of the question
that I can ever tell her I love her, that I
am not perplexed or confused when I am
with her."

But why not tell her all about yourself,
and then let things take their course 1 If

she comes to love you in return, truly she
will not let anything stand in her way."

Marston reflected in his turn.

I don't know — honestly I don't know
whether I fear to put an end to our present
relations on mv own account most, or on
hers. But at any rate there would be risk
of destroying my usefulness to her. It
might somehow jar her feeling about me ; it
would perturb my confidence in dealing with
her, and that might upset my psychic control
over her, which is so wonderfully perfect for
the moment. That, as it stands, must be for
her good, for it enables her to strengthen her
spiritual affinities ; it has been vouched for
to-night by the wisdom that speaks through
her lips in trance. We must guard it as long
as possible, for her sake."

My plan might best perpetuate it. I
should like the honesty and boldness of
that."

Seek for an intuition on the subject, and
tell me that. It would weigh more with me
than the argument ; and you will not tell it
me unless it is a real one — nor mistake any-vol.

II. 21

thing else for one. But my own instinct
warns me not to tell her yet, at any
rate."

You would not wish me to tell her V

No, certainly not. I couldn't bear it."

11 You must be guided by some future
impulse then. You will come each day, I
suppose, while she is here ?"

If you will let me."

Then come tomorrow to lunch ; and
now you had better be going, if you want to
vet back to town."

Is it so late ?"

Then they w T went into the drawing-room
and rejoined Ferrars, who was glad to be
moving in any way. He and Marston set
off for the station.

When Mrs. Malcolm at length went upstairs,
she found Edith in a dressing-gown
leaning on the banisters at the top.

My dear child, why haven't you gone to
bed T

Because I am not sleepy — no more than
I am at eleven o'clock in the morning. I
am in the middle of w r rising letters, but I
heard the gentlemen go, so I came out to

waylay you for a little chat. I can go on
with my letters later."

It's getting on for twelve," said Mrs.
Malcolm, as in a gentle protest, but coming
into her room none the less. " The magnetism
has gone to your head."

Yes ; but I'm not nervously sleepless —
only not tired. And I'm curious about something,
though I think I once told you I would
not be curious. I am curious to know more
about Mr. Marston."

But, my dearest girl "

I know you mustn't say all you know, and
I do not want you to ; but if there is anything
you can say, I should like you to tell me."

Mrs. Malcolm pondered.

What I can tell is hardly worth telling
what is worth telling I can't tell."

You see — I suppose it's because he has
been mesmerising me — I've got all sorts of
queer fancies about him dancing through my
head. I could drive them away, I dare say,
if I obstinately refused to pay attention to
them, but "

I never thought of that," said Mrs.
Malcolm. " Nor did he, I dare say. It

21—2

would hardly be like telling yon, perhaps,
if you can see for yourself. But — oh, Edith !
you will put me in a great embarrassment
perhaps if you say anything. Suppose you
wait till tomorrow, and tell Mr. Marston
himself what you read about him clairvoyance,
and let him confirm or explain."

Very well. If he is coming tomorrow
I can do that, if you like. At the same time,
I do not want to seem inquisitive. I don't
see anything clearly enough to matter. I
am only impressed with the idea that he is
mixed up with some horrid tragedies — or
rather surrounded — walled in, if you understand,
by such things, without being properly
mixed up in them himself."

My dear Edith, your vaguest fancies go
so dangerously near the mark that I must
not talk of them."

All right; I am sure that I might trust
him to play the finest, noblest part, as far as
I am concerned, and I am not a bit alarmed
about his tragedies, you understand. It won't
make me timid about him when I am mesmerised.
You need not be afraid of that."

I am not, dear, because I know the truth

is so. Sidney Marston is a trustworthy guide
for your wandering spirit. But, by-the-bye,
there is something I can tell you, though he
did not " She reflected for a few moments.
" Yes, I can't see why not. It was
something your guardian spirit, our guardian,
said to you while you were in trance. I
wanted Mr. Marston to impress you to remember
it, but he would not."

Why, what was it ?"

That you could trust him entirely to lead
you right. You repeated that with your
own lips as something she had just said to
you."

And why wouldn't he let me remember.
Ah, but I can see — at least I can feel. It
was very nice of him not to use his will to
make me remember that. Don't you think
so ?"

*' Yes, but it is just as well you should
know it was said."

I don't think after all I will worry him
to tell me anything about his private affairs
that it may be disagreeable for him to talk
about. He can tell me or let it alone, as he
likes, and, meanwhile, I can think of him

not as a personality, but as my guide to the
spirit-world. It's a comfort to be able to
put one man, at any rate, on so lofty a
pedestal."

You talk as if you were forty, and had
sounded the wickedness of the world."

There are people who have been forty,
and you can learn a good deal from them,"
said Edith gravely, and without giving the
phrase any intentionally comic flavour.

But somehow it emphasised her own youth
in Mrs. Malcolm's eyes, and made her to that
extent seem — as one so freshly emerging
from childhood — out of harmony with the
tremendous passion of feeling on her account
which had been manifested so shortly before
by the mature man she respected in the room
below. Women may often sympathize truly
enough with men in their love-troubles, but
these can hardly fail to seem in their eyes a
kind of craze or ignoble infatuation when
looked back upon, so to speak, from the
altogether female point of view.

Mrs. Malcolm was truly attached to Edith ;
but coolly observing her, and amused for a
moment by the sedate and at the same time

childish sagacity of her last remark, she
thought of the declaration Marston had made
about longing to die at her feet in view of
the hopelessness of his love, and she shook
her head sadly at the complications of the
whole position, wondering at the nature of
the magic spell itself, even more than at the
thoughtless insouciance with which in this
instance it was wielded.

A NEW PHASE.

The two or three days that followed passed
quietly over the Richmond household without
bringing any startling incidents to disturb
the even tenor of Edith's psychic development.
Marston came each day at lunchtime,
and stayed with them till the evening
was spent. None of them cared to go out
much beyond the narrow precincts of the
garden. They read and talked, and Edith
sang to them. They were sometimes all three
together, and sometimes either Mrs. Malcolm
or Edith would be detained by letters or
private occupations, and the remaining two
would be left in confidential intercourse.
But Marston put off the subject of his own
life-history from time to time as a disagreeable
topic. He wished Edith to know the
sad mystery, he said, but to keep its unwholesome

shadow as long as possible from
interfering with the beautiful experiences she
was passing through, and in the development
of which he was fortunate enough to be able
to be of service to her.

When you have to leave us," he said one
afternoon, " then T shall no longer feel that
I am entitled to let you remain under any
sense of being kept out of a secret concerning
me. Not that it matters to you, in one way.
There is nothing in my personal life which
renders me unworthy of the privilege of
showing you how to use your wings. My
final triumph as your teacher will be that
you will want me no more ; and then "

What then ?" she asked, for he had
seemed to try and put a conclusion to the
sentence without being able.

Nothing will matter then. Othello's
occupation will be gone."

If you think I am likely to learn in a
few days all you can teach me — well, you
either overrate me very much, or underrate
yourself."

It is not necessary for me to teach you
all I know, in one sense, for my knowledge,

such as it is, has been gained by a good deal
of laborious study and thought that you need
not take the trouble to go over. For reasons
I cannot fathom — probably through your
own great merits in former lives — you stand
very near the fountain-head of all knowledge
; very near that exalted spiritual life
which is more than knowledge, in our physical
sense of the term. Students who have
taken great pains to acquire knowledge are
sometimes apt to value its results by reference
to the trouble they have spent to gain
it. But how can I illustrate it % If you
want a view over the country, and build a
tower stone by stone, at last you may stand
on the top and get the view. But if someone
else can float up in a balloon, without an
effort, whenever he chooses, he gets the
required view all the same. I have been
building a tower, and you are possessed of a
balloon ; and with that you can go ten times
higher than I can with my tower, such as it
is. Why should you plague yourself with
the humble task of bricklaying V

You can always invent beautifully complimentary
similes ; but with that remarkable

sagacity you applaud in me I am enabled to
discern the fact that, whenever any new
question opens itself, I am very ignorant, and
you are very full of information. I object
to that state of things, and want to have it
equalized more."

Long may you remain of that mind. But
let us recognise facts all the same. Just as
true as the fact that I have read and thought
for many more years than you have yet spent
on the process, is the other fact I spoke of :
that you stand close to the boundless ocean
of — something more than knowledge — of
higher spiritual consciousness, which is
walled off from humbler mortals by impenetrable
barriers. So far the light assistance
of mesmeric influence on your own fine
physical organism is required to float off your
consciousness into the superior realms. If
that were not wanted — if you could at will
ascend into free communion with that Spirit
Queen whom I declare to be simply your own
higher self, and then be fully conscious of all
that had passed in your waking physical
brain — you would be already a more wonderful
creature than you are, by a great way.

Such persons may exist in the world, but
they are examples of a very abnormal growth
indeed. In your case I do not anticipate the
development of that state of things. But,
as our efforts continue, you are able to remember
what you see in trance more and
more clearly. The better that memory
becomes— the more your impulses and
thoughts and emotions in } T our waking
state become saturated with the influence
of your higher self — the mere you will be
spiritualized and guarded from the possibility
of any ignoble contagion of lower w T worldly
affinities during life. That kind of saturation
of the lower nature by the influences of
the higher is the final sum and perfection of
knowledge — immeasurably superior to a
capacity for quoting learned writers, and
arguing out even these doctrines of spiritual
science theoretically. So you see I am
proving you to be as great as I say — am I
not T

kt I don't know. So much of my life is
spent in talk so unlike this — in society
so far inferior to Marian's and yours — that
I sometimes feel a kind of impostor

when you speak of me as you have just been
doing."

That is just the struggle of the dual
existence — the spiritual and physical. It is
a terrible struggle, even for those who, like
yourself, are best armed for it."

But I think I am very badly armed.
You merely see me here, in this delightful
retreat, with the most beautiful influences all
around. It seems all plain sailing here. To
love spiritual culture and my glorious experience
best, that is a matter of course. But,
however much the best I love them, I go
away into a worldly, frivolous life, and am
obliged to spend all my time — except a few
hasty moments to be snatched now and then
in the future for Richmond — in the midst of
such different things and people. That is
not being armed — that is being overwhelmed
by my enemy ; while you and Marian — you
are the people who are armed by circumstance.
You can live the life you choose,
and be always in contact with higher
ideas."

Marian is, I think, in a great measure
But as for me — well, never mind

about me for the present. Let us keep on
talking of a pleasant subject — yourself. It
is just because you are likely to be subject to
so many temptations and distractions that I
am wishing for you so earnestly that you
may become, in some degree, independent of
my help in the exercise of } r our psychic
powers, and "

There !" cried Edith, suddenly interrupting.
"What was that? Didn't you see?
Why, good gracious ! "

She had had some light wool-work in her
hands, and they were sitting on the lawn
sloping down to the river, though screened
by bushes, so as to be in privacy as regards
the passing boats. Part of the lawn gave
directly on the water, and the bushes only
screened the corner. With one of her long
ivory knitting-needles Edith was pointing to
the end bush, and leaning forward.

What do you mean ? I can see nothing,
I regret to say."

Why, Zephyr ! I saw him flash through
the laurel-bush — all green this time — and
look at me with his merry goggle eyes as he
stood for a moment on the grass. I saw him

as plain as I've ever seen him in a vision,
and I declare I heard him laugh /"

Splendid ! and then he vanished V

Yes ; where on earth has he gone ?
Zephyr !" called the girl, with bright impetuosity,
springing up and going to feel with
her hands in the laurel-bush. " Come and
show yourself directly. This is something
altogether new," she said to Marston. " If
he can do that, why did he not do it
before V

It's you who didn't do it before," Marston
said, laughing: with the contagion of her
own high spirits. " I dare say Zephyr has
shown himself before, but this is the first
time you have been able to see him. Even
now, for example, he has only shown himself to
you and not to me; or, in other words, it
was only you who were able to see him."

Oh, Mr. Marston, come in and put mein
a trance, and then I shall be sure to see
him, and will make him tell me all about it."

Marston agreed, and they went up to the
house.

"What makes him take such funny shapes
and look such a comic little elf? How

wonderfully, by-the-bye, the realities of
psychic things are unlike the sentimental
fancies people have about them, if they know
nothing of them. Zephyr is a spirit — in a
way at any rate, as you explained — and a
most amiable, delightful spirit ; but he does
not at all correspond to the romantic
pattern."

"Zephyr, I take it, is an elemental, to use
the language of the old writers on occultism
a nature spirit infused with the will of
some higher power. Not an organized
psychic being like one of us ; but a potency
of nature on a higher plane of her manifestations.
The shape in which he appears to you
is no doubt altogether the product of your
own imaginings, really."

But he takes all sorts of shapes."

Because you have no rigidly formed conception
in your own mind of the shape that
an elemental, doing the particular work he is
employed upon, ought to assume."

Mrs. Malcolm was called down and
acquainted with what had occurred ; and
Edith threw herself on the sofa to be mesmerized,
with as much matter - of - course

familiarity now with the whole process as if
she had been rushing to the piano to try a
new son of.

How ridiculous it is," she said, as Marston
sat down beside her, and she gave him
her hands to hold as naturally as she might
have stretched them out to be helped from a
carriage, ' ; to think that the vast majority of
people argue about the possibility of mesmeric
trances and clairvoyance, and so on,
when it's just as much a matter of course tous
as breakfast and dinner."

For the most part, you see, the people
who know don't argue ; it's not worth their
while. They don't like to expose themselves
to insult from foolish unbelievers. It does
not matter to them whether the majority of
the world come up to their level or not.
They have their own knowledge, and they
work with it."

That does not seem right and generous
though ; it seems selfish."

That is according to each man's duty.
It is the business of some people to combat
unbelief, and put up with the abuse they
get for their pains— not a very serious corvee
3 vol. ii. 22

either for that matter. But there are other
people who need not do any such rough
work — people like yourself, for instance.
Let you ask your Higher Self whether you
are bound to go talking about her to every
common-place materialist you meet, and I
strongly suspect you will be told to keep
your own counsel."

But my arms are tingling up to the
elbow."

"And I am forgetting my business, keeping
} r ou gossiping here. Now I am only" —
going through the usual ceremonies and
passes as he spoke — " on guard over your
wanderings, and ready within call if wanted. "

A few injunctions to sleep, and a few
moments spent with his hands over her closed
eyes, produced the usual effect.

It was to cross-question Zephyr that Edith
had had herself launched into the mesmeric
state; but she sank into a very profound torpor
at first faintly answered Marston's questions
enough to show her consciousness not altogether
out of his reach, but indicated a wish
to be left alone as much as possible.

Never mind Zephyr just now," she said,

when Marston reminded her of what she had
wanted to enquire about. "Wait a little
while ; I may have something to say."

This was a new phase of her clairvoyance.
Marston and Mrs. Malcolm exchanged looks
of interest, both recognising the attitude now
taken up as an advance, in its relative independence,
on those of her previous trances.

There is something you ought to know
about me," she said presently, speaking
slowly and calmly, " and that is that I am
not qualified to remain long in earthly life.
No one about me seems to be aware of it
yet ; but my lungs are very weak, and must
give way rather quickly when they once begin
to show disease."

What ought to be done to save you V

She looked troubled, and remained silent
for a time. Then she said :

I must not answer that question."

Marston and Mrs. Malcolm looked at each
other, anxious and a little bewildered.

What's wrong about the question ?"
Marston said aside ; and then to Edith :

Do you mean that your early death is
really inevitable ?"

22—2

Still she did not seem to like the form of
the question ; but answered :

i{ No."

Then can you indicate any course of
action we might take to prolong your
life ?"

Your mesmeric influence would do that''

Then I may use it for that purpose, may
I not T

"Yes, if you choose ; but you will find it
very difficult. There will be great obstacles
in the way, and if you use it that way it will
be at great cost to yourself."

I may say to you now, and speaking this
way — not for you to remember in your
physical life — that of course it does not
matter what the cost is to me if I can do
you service."

I can see you would be ready to give
your life for me if you thought that best ;
but perhaps it might not be. There are
things I must not say. You must do what
you think right ; but, if it is best, you can
make me live."

Mrs. Malcolm here put in a few words :

Surely you can ask her now whether it

would be best that your life should be united
with hers."

Mars ton pondered over the idea for a little
while, Edith remaining in a state of complete
quiescence. Then he put the question
:

14 Ought I, for your sake, to strive that
you may be willing to unite your life with
mine ?"

The answer came slowly and in a low voice,
but in the same impassive tone id which the
other utterances had been given.

There is a union of sympathy between
us which need not be long interrupted ; butin
earth-life, such union as you are thinking
of would not be best. Strive to prolong our
present relationship — that is best for us
both."

My soul's queen !" murmured Marston,
deeply affected ; "all shall be as you direct."

Tell me, when I return to you, about
Zephyr," she went on. " Your influence is
clearing my vision, and I shall be able to see
my Guardian's messenger more plainly in
future, and gather tidings of her, from him,
without being entranced. But, remember, ib

will be at your cost that my higher faculties
will be strengthened — whether you are near
me or away. I shall live on your life. But
if my lower consciousness is too soon aware
of this, there will be risk that all sacrifices
may be useless."

The utterances she was giving forth this
time were of so spontaneous a character that
Marston's usual habit of continually plying
her with questions seemed no longer applicable,
and he sat waiting for what she should
say next. After a long pause, she said :

"Tell Marian that George will find the
woman he is in search of, but he will want
more money than he has with him. She
should send this to him, and he should be
sure to take the woman to the girl's father
before he reaches England."

Then, after a further pause :

You need not entrance me again. I must
learn to get what I ought to know through
Zephyr, in my lower consciousness."

I will obey your directions exactly."

Do not think of them as commands from
my Higher Self. You will be tempted to
seek guidance from me in trance — and you



are not forbidden, only warned that it nay
not be best. You should rely on your own
judgment in the crisis that w 7 ill arrive, and
you will have power to unite what remains of
my life with your own if you choose. It is
right that you should know this, lest what I
have told you should cripple your freedom of
action. You may recall me now, after a little
while, and, in my earthly consciousness, I
shall remember nothing of what I have now
been saying. I have been speaking to you
this time as I could never speak before. You
could only get, from these lips hitherto, confused
reflections of myself. The real ' I ' has
now been speaking to you, for the body has
become a more docile instrument, but for that
reason it had better now be worked in a new
way. It will be exhausted as it has not been
before by the strain it has gone through.
Lay your hand upon the heart, and let it
revive by degrees."

Marston did as directed, and they sat
watching Edith's motionless form in silence
for some time.

u This is a terrible secret to be burdened
with," Mrs. Malcolm said.

We must consult about it later," Marston
answered.

Meanwhile you will tell her all she should
know. Oh ! Sidney "

Mrs. Malcolm's last exclamation was
uttered in a low tone, but as in response to a
sudden perception of something wonderful.

"What do you see?"

Mrs. Malcolm had been sitting, as usual
during Edith's magnetic trances, near the
foot of her sofa, behind Marston, whose
chair, placed near her head, enabled him to
lean over her sideways to perform the
magnetic passes. Leaning forward now, she
Mrs. Malcolm — was looking up in the air
above Edith's form, and impulsively she
stretched out both her hands.

Did you see nothing ? The Guardian
Spirit herself was visible to me for a time —
my Guardian, just as I have always seen her:
the faint veil over her head, and the luminous
white drapery. She seemed to float away
towards the window and disappear."

I saw nothing," said Marston, " except
some undefinable change on Edith's face."

The girl now moved slightly, and sighed.

11 Don't you feel anything ? It seems tome
that I am enveloped in that peculiar
sensation of rapture or exaltation which the
sight of my Guardian always brings with
it "

She is coming to herself," Marston
said.

Edith opened her eyes, but did not mine
lately spring up into a sitting posture, as
she had generally done.

"Is it over?" she said, as Marston withdrew
his hand from her side. u What has
been happening ? I don't remember anything.
I might just as well have been
asleep in the ordinary way, except that I
feel tired."

Not disagreeably tired — not any sense of
pain r

; Pain ! no. Nothing of that sort —
merely limp. What has been going on s
Have I missed fire this time, somehow V

About as far from that as two ideas can
be apart," Marston answered. '* You have
been rather more wonderful than usual — and
you feel the strain. We will tell you about
it directly."

But it is stupid not to remember things.
I thought I was getting on better than that.
I feel all cloudy and confused. What was it
we were intending to do in particular !"

Wait a little, till you recover more fully.
You will have plenty to think about
directly."

You must make me strong again," she
said in a few minutes, " if you will promise
not to kill yourself ; otherwise, I won't let
you."

How are you to help it, if I choose V 9
said Marston, with a smile, as he began the
long passes.

By imposing my sovereign commands
upon you. That is the understood bargain
between us. I surrender myself to your
will entirely on the simple condition that
you always make me do exactly what I
choose ; and now I choose to be made strong
again at your expense — only I must not use
you up entirely all at once. I might want
you again, you know, another time."

This way of putting the case was far
sweeter to Marston, of course, than any
explicit consideration for his interests ; and

Edith had got into the habit of clothing her
most sympathetic and grateful impulses
towards him in the guise of the most commanding
language. She rapidly brightened
under the influence to which she was now
subject, and presently sat up.

u That will do. I feel all right again.
Now I will graciously permit you to sit
down and tell me all about it."

The great and important fact," said
Marston, subsiding again into his chair, " is
that you are now going to be clairvoyante
without going into trances at all. Your
humble servant's services are not wanted
any more !"

You don't mean that you are to stop
mesmerising me ?"

"On the contrary ; your orders are quite
clear on that head. My magnetic influence
upon you is distinctly approved of, and I am
instructed to do all I can to keep it in operation,
though warned there will be difficulties
in the way of doing this."

When I have to go away, of course. But
if you are not to entrance me I do not
understand "

Without hinting a word as to the revelations
concerning herself that were to be
kept secret from her, Marston explained at
great length the immense practical advantage
that was promised in the establishment of her
faculties in a state that would enable her
without the aid of any external magnetism
to keep up relations with the higher plane
of her own consciousness. She was also told
about the message she had given to Mrs.
Malcolm. This turned the conversation
upon Ferrars' affairs. There had not yet
been time for his sister to hear from him
since his departure. He had sent word that
he should travel without delay to Seville,
and that was the place to which letters were
to be sent after him.

What an extraordinary thing that I
should talk about his money," said Edith.

"It is a pity, my dear," replied Mrs.
Malcolm, " that while you were talking about
it you did not give me more precise information
as to the amount George would want.
I can t think what I ought to send him. He
is sure to have gone provided sufficiently for
all travelling needs. It must be some unlooked

for emergency that he will be called
upon to meet."

'there will be an opportunity," Marston
said to Edith, " of exercising your new rights
over Zephyr. You might make up your
mind when next you see him to make him
find out for you what the money is wanted
for, and how much Mrs. Malcolm ought to
send."

u What an idea — that I have an omniscient
sprite at my beck and call ! But the
worst of it is he is not at my beck and call.
I do not know in the least how to summon
him."

Never mind that. Keep on your mind
what you want to know from him when you
do see him, and then the opportunity will
not be wasted when it comes."

'Eventually Edith went away to her own
room for a time, declaring she must absolutely
write a few lines to her aunt before it was
too late for that day, and Mrs. Malcolm and
Marston w T ere left together.

How do you read it all V she asked.
I think it is impossible to read it all at
present. The whole statement seems to

point to some future crisis when perhaps
the warnings given now may be of use. I
do not in the least see what is to be done
for the present — except that you should
clearly keep her with you as long as you
can."

She will certainly have to leave me in a
few days. She merely came for that time,
and will have overstayed it by a day or two
before she goes, in any case."

11 Where can the doubt be about my doing
what I can to save her life ?"

It would be a miserable view of the
matter for us ; but for her ! She may be
ripe for something better than life."

That is a poetical view of the question ;
but there my own dull, philosophical way of
looking at these things comes into play.
Life is always another word, for opportunity.
I can easily imagine that Edith might be
happier — much happier — if she were to float
off into a purely spiritual existence ; but I
take it that there are infinite gradations of
exaltation in that existence, and how is a
human soul fitted for the higher gradations ?
Evidently, it seems to me, by the upward

struggling of this life. This is the school —
the other existence the sphere in which each
soul profits by what it has learned."

But in the next life Edith, for example,
will be — by your own theory — her own
Higher Self, a far higher being than she is
now, as we see her on this plane."

But that Higher Self is merely the sum
total of a]l she has gone through, learned,
and suffered for in all former stages of her
existence up to this. She would not be now
an incarnate being at all if she had not more
still to gain from the lessons of life. If her
experience of this is now suddenly arrested,
some effort which her Higher Self was making
by means of this incarnation will be defeated,
it seems to me. But I'm hardly clear enough
in my mind to think the question fully out.
For the moment it seems to me as if a somewhat
considerable cheque had been drawn on
my vital forces."

He had dropped down into the easy chair
Mrs. Malcolm had quitted when Edith left
the room. Mrs. Malcolm was far too appreciative
of the whole situation to offer commonplace
condolences on his exhaustion.

You must learn," she said, " to manager
your strength, for her sake. It would not do
for you to break down prematurely."

No ; that must be avoided. I shall
watch my feelings. But this sort of lassitude
passes away, or rather, the lost vitality
is somehow restored always, after a bit."

I'll leave you quiet and go and write to
George."

A PAINFUL REVELATION.

The few remaining days of Edith's Richmond
visit slipped away all too quickly, though
the principal interest of its earlier days —
her magnetic trances — had been suspended.
The lost excitement connected with these
was fully supplied by the newer development
of her psychic faculties and the frequent appearance
in their midst — though to her
vision only — of the mysterious agency by
means of which it had been promised that
her relations with the higher plane of nature
should be kept up. " Zephyr " paid no
regard to dramatic effect in his visitations,
and neither associated his corning with the
solemnity of late hours nor the romantic
flavour of invocations. He had flashed upon
Edith's consciousness for the first time after
her last trance on the evening of that same
vol. ii. 23

day while they were all three at dinner, and
Mrs. Malcolm's two maids present and engaged
upon the prosaic duty of handing the
vegetables and sauce. Edith's attention was
suddenly caught while she was in the act of
helping herself to potatoes and talking about
Miss Barkley. The flow of her speech suddenly
arrested, the bright half startled, half-delighted
look on her face, suggested to both
the others what she saw in the corner of
the dining-room towards which her gaze
was directed. And they all understood
one another so well that everything passed
openly amongst them in effect, without the
servants being in the least degree enlightened
as to what they meant by the disjointed
phrases uttered.

11 Zephyr !" she said simply, with a glance
at Marston.

How much V was his immediate reply,
to remind her of the information specially
wanted from him.

There was a picture hanging in the recess
of the room at the corner towards which
Edith was looking.

Oh ! I understand. He seemed to write

it with bis finder across the Rembrandt —
*200."

Well," said Mrs. Malcolm, " since it is a
large amount that is wanted, I am glad it
isn't a larger. I can manage that."

But what I want to know," Edith began,
and then stopped. She laughed directly
afterwards, and added : " What a funny idea.
That's a most interesting picture of yours,
Marian — that Rembrandt."

That is the old story, you know. Imaginative
critics will often see more in a work
of art than the artist means to put there."

41 I'll discuss the merits of the picture with
you at leisure another time."

Afterwards she explained that she had
stopped in saying what she had wanted to
know, because Zephyr had obviously anticipated
her thought before it was fully spoken.
She had been desirous of learning how she
could summon him w r hen she wanted to ask
him a question, and he had all in a moment
conjured up a vision in which she had seen
herself vehemently pulling a bell-handle,
while she saw him at the same time asleep
at a distance, and paying no attention. Then

23—2

in the next instant, by a change in the picture,
she saw herself sitting dejectedly in a chair
with her face in her hands, and the moment
she assumed this attitude the sleeping Zephyr
in the distance sprang up and flashed through
space to her side.

It was a roundabout way of implying
evidently that I had no power to call him,
but that he would be ready to come whenever
I should really be in need of him."

And not a very roundabout way either,"
suggested Marston, " considering the short
time it took to evoke the pictures in your
fancy. From our physical habits and experience,
w T e get into the way of thinking
that speech is the only respectable medium
for the conveyance of ideas from one mind to
another, but directly the faculties are set free
from physical restraints, we always find other
modes employed. I remember you made use
of a very suggestive phrase in one of your
trances when you said that Zephyr came back
to you so full of the idea he had gone in search
of that he ' splashed it over you.' I do not
suppose that he stopped to make use of words
then. The idea was suddenly communicated

to your mind by a process analogous to what
in electric science is called induction. If
people would only pay attention to them, the
phenomena of physical science would be seen
to teem with illustrations and analogies showing
what goes on on the psychic plane."

Then, on another occasion, Edith became
conscious of Zephyr's presence when she was
alone in her own room at night. Some other
symbolical pictures had been shown her, " But
the great point gained," Marston argued,
when they spoke of the incident, "ris that
you are used to the exercise of your own
abnormal vision, so that it does not make
you nervous when it takes you unprepared
by yourself."

Not in the least," Edith answered. " I
look on Zephyr as an established friend and
protector. But I do not want to see all
kinds of other shapes and forms that I do
not understand, and I am just a little apprehensive
that I shall get to see too much after
a time. I am constantly now having the
feeling when I am alone that I am not alone
altogether, and I seem to see misty figures
near me out of the corners of my eyes."

Marston was able to give her some directions
for use against annoyances of that kind,
and Edith was greatly struck with the resources
of his knowledge.

It has been gathered," he explained,
"partly from books, partly from association
with other students of occult mysteries.
There is a much greater abundance of
knowledge on these subjects floating about
in the world really than our highly self-satisfied
century is generally aware of, and
for my part circumstances have driven me to
find my only interests in life in the exploration
of these little trodden paths of research."

They were talking now on the last evening
of Edith's visit. It was arranged that Mrs.
Malcolm would go up to town in the morning,
and see her with her maid into the train that
would take her to Deerbury Park. She had
been lamenting her impending descent into
the lower world of mere amusement and
dissipation, and the others were oppressed
with the shadow of their coining loss. Mrs.
Malcolm had been giving free expression to
her regrets. For Marston, the aching sense
of desolation with which he contemplated her

departure was too intense to be shaped into
any such words as he could speak.

I am sure," Edith said, in reply to his
last remark, " that you must be greatly the
gainer in leading a life of such inquiry as
compared to a more commonplace existence."

u Well," Marston answered, " I think you
may as well know all about it."

Mrs. Malcolm saw what was coming ;
looked from one to the other with something
like a frightened glance, then got up hastily
and left the room. Edith caught the expression,
looked after her in wonder, and then
with bewildered expectation at Marston.
She was sitting in her old corner of the sofa
in which her magnetic trances had taken
place, Marston in an easy chair at a little
distance.

Why has Marian gone in that strange
way {

I suppose she thinks, in the delicacy of
her sympathy with me, that what I have to
tell you would be made even more painful in
the telling if a third person — even herself —
were by. Perhaps she is right."

His face was set very rigidly, and he

pulled for a few moments nervously at his
small moustache, that failed to conceal the
working of his sensitive lips. He got very
pale, and his dark eyes shone with more
lustre than usual as he turned them on Edith
for a little while before he spoke again, with
a mute entreaty. Then he drew his hand
across his forehead, and went on :

My great secret is very easily told. I
live under the weight of a great shame
brought upon me by my father. Ah, it will
shock you ; and yet my only excuse for
having drifted into intimacy with you — for
having dared to avail myself of the priceless
privilege of having been of service to you — ■
if I may think that I have been that — has
been that, personally, I am as blameless in
the matter through which I suffer as though
I had never been struck down with this
strange curse."

You frighten me, somehow ; but I know
that, whatever horrors you have been surrounded
with, it can only be the deepest
sympathy that is due to you. How can I
have any other feeling but that of gratitude
for all the help you have given me ?"

4 You owe me nothing worth calling by
that name. You are too exalted. But,
before I go on, I would gladly hear you
say But no I" he cried, checking himself
impetuously ; " there shall be no weakness
of that sort. I have humbly sought to
be of service to you. I shall always treasure
the belief that, in some degree. I have been
that ; and I shall be repaid a thousand-fold
if you decide, on reflection, that you do not
regret having accepted a service at my
hands. My father," he went on, speaking
hurriedly now, and in a hard tone, i( was a
man of strong and ungovernable passions,
restrained neither by religion of the ordinary
kind nor by the views of life and
the future which, for some philosophical
thinkers, supply an almost sterner rule of
conduct. With my mother, since dead, hew
T as unhappy — no matter by whose fault.
They separated, and he formed an attachment
of a wildly vehement character for
another woman. In her affections he was,
as he believed — and as I believe also —
treacherously supplanted by another man. I
need not go into the details now. In the

end my father killed him. It was no duel :
a sadden meeting — an attack ; what the law
decided to have been a murder. If the
woman concerned had been his wife, probably
the result would somehow have been different.
But no extenuation was seen in an unholy
passion. My father was condemned to
death, and punished — as murderers are generally
punished."

It was Edith's turn now to grow pale ; and
she lay back trembling, only giving vent to a
low cry of distress.

Our name," Marston went on, after a
pause, " rang through the country. I took
refuge in another. The family property — no
fortune, but enough for all the wants that
could survive for me — was restored to me,
the eldest son. I had one brother, with
whom I divided it, and he went to Australia.
Mrs. Malcolm and George Ferrars are my
only friends of the former time. I have known
them both from children. Hers is a heart of
gold. You know now why I am a recluse ;
why I cannot go about in the world like those
on whom there is no horrible taint of infamy''

Edith did not speak, for she had put her

handkerchief to her face, and had no control
of her lips for the moment.

In the study," Marston went on in a low
voice, " of human life, in those of its relations
which have nothing to do with this ghastly
plain of physical illusion, I have found a
strange refuge, and — a sort of callous capacity
to endure my lot. I should never have
emerged from my usual habits, when Marian
first sent for me to meet you, if I had not
met you before. But accident had decreed
that meeting ; and, divining then something
of what your nature was, I thought I might
be of use to you, and I came. Then the
situation grew to what it has been. How
could I dash my horrible story in your face,
to trouble the current of your psychic development
1 Concealment has been horrible ;
but I have not practised it, God knows, for
any selfish end. And now I have the agony
of telling all this on the last night I shall see
you. Perhaps that makes it worse ; but
how can there be worse or better in such a
matter V

Edith vaguely shook her head, keeping
her face still covered.

It is awful !" she said, in the awkward,
strained tone that her emotion caused.

Marston sat gazing at her in silent misery
for some time. Then he slowly got up from
his chair and stood by it, with his hand on
the back and one knee upon the seat :

"So I have told you what I had to tell,
and now I had better go. You are too much
aghast to think connectedly just now, I can
\v 7 ell imagine ; but what I was nearly saying,
just before I told you, was this — that I should
be glad to hear you say, if that really was the
case, that you thought I had been of use to
you. Nothing could be more dreadfully out
of place than thanks. But if, looking back on
the thing, you can feel that you do not regret
having accepted some loyal and respectful
service at my hands, on your upward course,
it will be all the comfort I can expect in life
to hear that that is the case. And now I bid
you, most reverentially, good-bye."

In the intensity of his self-abasement he
bowed, and was moving to the door without
attempting any more intimate leave-taking.
He had his hand on the lock, but she called
almost angrily to him to wait. He obeyed

her literally, and paused as he stood by the
door.

You mustn't go like that," she said. " It
is horrible — but you needn't talk as if you
were guilty. Am I a wretch with no feeling,
that I should not give you sympathy ?"

11 1 am blameless, as I say," Marston
replied, coming back as far as the chair he
had formerly occupied, but no further ; " but
I am tainted. You may struggle against the
feeling as you please, and try to persuade
yourself it is wrong, but you will feel it none
the less. Against that feeling on the part of
most people I should rage furiously, therefore

I live by myself. With you " the depth

of tenderness with which he said the words
made him hesitate, but he covered up the
sims of emotion with an allusion to their
psychic relationship, " with you whom I have
been so closely thrown with for a short time
by reason of your psychic requirements, it
would not be fury, but great wretchedness I
should feel in observing the signs of it."
Why don't you shrink from Marian ?"
He could not immediately answer the
pointed question. At last he said :

I have no right to anticipate Marian's
attitude of mind from anyone else."

I could not speak to you before," said
Edith, " because I was crying. But it was
wrong of you to think I could let you go
without shaking hands."

Marston made no impulsive movement towards
her, and uttered no words in response.
Perhaps the phrase she used, however kindly
meant, could only intensify his pain. What
was it after all to shake hands with her, when
every fibre of his body was yearning to prostrate
itself before her and worship her feet
with kisses ? And he could not even profess a
wish for more than her pity and her friendly
farewell.

The strain is so agonizing," he said after
a pause — the words bearing no necessary
reference to anything but the story he had
told — u that I think I had better go. I shall
be very eager to know how the whole position
presents itself to your mind tomorrow. You
will tell Marian for me anything you can
say in full sincerity. Don't even try to say
anything appropriate now. Since you permit
me, good-bye," coming up to her, and taking

her hand — which she gave him without rising",
looking up at him as she did so, pale and
tearful.

I am so crushed and bewildered I do not
know what to say. But you talk as if you
expected me to turn away from you with
horror. How can anything but the most
intense sympathy be due to you ?"

Unreasonable impulses are too strong for
argument in this extraordinary case. You
will find no justification in what I have told
3 T ou for any harsh words or attitude of mind
towards me on your part. But my revelations
have nevertheless hollowed out a gulf between
us, and I shall remain for you on the further
side of it, no matter how you try to convince
yourself that this ought not to be so. The
sense of bewilderment you speak of is the
recognition of this. I can see the gulf plainly
-enough. For once my inner sight is keener
than yours. It is so far well, at all events,
that I did not tell you sooner. My intuition
was right in that respect. If I had done so
I should have failed in the little part I had
to perform in helping you to realize and exercise
your own higher faculties. Had you

known sooner, you would have been too much
chilled and disquieted to have trusted yourself
with any confidence to my guidance. And
yet — if I have enjoyed the privilege of your
intimate friendship for some few days by a
kind of false pretence — the thought is maddening."


Don't say that — there was no false pretence."


The conversation had been broken by
pauses. Marston's remarks were not smoothly
fluent, and he remained standing near her fora
little while, offering nothing better than a
gloomy shake of the head as a response to her
vague deprecation of his self-reproach.

"Well," he said at last, "in the end it
could only be the same, anyhow ; and the end
has come. May the shadow of my wretchedness
pass away swiftly from your bright
and beautiful life — good-bye !" This time
he went without pausing, and without any
second recall ; and without seeking Mrs.
Malcolm left the house. She heard the
hall-door close — she had been on her knees
in the dining-room — and returned to Edith,
who remained sitting upright on the sofa.

Has he gone — altogether?" Mrs. Malcolm
asked.

Yes. Oh, Marian, what an awful horror!"

Mrs. Malcolm looked at Edith with an
anxious gaze of inquiry.

But why should he have rushed away
like that ?" Mrs. Malcolm was embarrassed
by wondering whether anything more had
passed beyond the great confession of the
facts. " I thought a little sympathy from
you would have seemed easier to give with
no third person by. That was why I left
you."

"I have been simply stunned ; I did not
know what to say. He was going even without
shaking hands ; but I made him do that.
Then he would go, all the same."

Did you not think any good could have
been done by talking further ? I often think
that, horrible as his position is, he is morbid
about it, and makes it even worse than it
need be. I have always found that open
expression of sympathy is a sort of relief to
him. Everyone must feel it ; but some
people are shy of putting thoughts like that
into words."

vol. ii. 24

'• I had no thoughts to utter ; I was
crushed, flattened down by the ghastly surprise
of the thing. I wonder did he think
me quite unfeeling and cruel. He kept on
accusing himself in such a wild way of
having been with us on false pretences, as it
were. T only felt bewildered, and I don't
seem to have said anything to him to speak
of."

11 That was a pity. A few words from you
would have gone so far."

By degrees Mrs. Malcolm realized the
scene in all its details. She did not reproach
Edith for having been unduly or unkindly
frigid. She sat down by her and caressed
her, and sympathized with her for the shock
she had experienced ; but explained how she
herself never was conscious of any repulsion
in regard to Marston, by reason of having
known him so long and respected him so
thoroughly. She spoke of his character,
so wonderfully free from all ignoble traits,
so self-effacing and modest ; and of his intellectual
attainments and mental powers as
obliterating — for her who had known him
intimately all her life — all consciousness of

that "taint of infamy" of which he had
spoken.

11 Sometimes I think it is a mere unwholesome
fancy on his part to suppose people
generally would regard him as so tainted if
he went more about in the world ; but it is
impossible to say. Anyhow, it is very hard
on him ; and he is qualified for such a
different sort of life than that on which he
has been driven back. The richness and
depth of his natural feelings might have
made him live a very full life ; but they have
all turned to gall and bitterness, and he is so
much the more wretched."

As a consequence of the talk they had, it
ensued that early the following morning
Marston received at his chambers a telegram
from Mrs. Malcolm.

Be at King's Cross at 12.30 to
say good-bye. This is Edith's imperative
desire."

Of course Marston was there, and they
walked about together on the platform, and
sat in the waiting-room ; and at first nothing

° o

was said in regard to what had passed the
evening before. He asked Edith a few

24—2

questions in a grave, subdued way about her
journey, and the arrangements made for
meeting her at the other end. Edith said
she was not looking forward to her Deerbury
Park visit with any great anticipation of
pleasure — the break up of the wonderfully
interesting time they had had together was
so much to be regretted.

There will be nobody at my aunt's to
take me out of myself, and show me the way
to the spirit world as you have done."

But my small share in doing that was
over, you know, in any case. Your tutor had
been formally dismissed, and your coming of
age as a clairvoyante in your own right fully
recognised."

My tutor had not been dismissed, and
would not have been allowed to absent himself,
had I been able to remain at Richmond."


Mrs. Malcolm had wandered off to the
book stall, and this left them practically
alone for the moment.

And he is not dismissed, as matters
stand, even. That is why I wanted to see
you again before I started. I want to know

if I may write to you and consult you about
anything that may happen to me. If Zephyr
comes to see me, I am sure to want
to discuss his proceedings with some one who
will understand all about it. Last night, you
know, I was so much upset that I did not
think to say this. You will answer any
questions I send you, will you not V

11 Most assuredly, if you are so good as to
wish it."

That is right, because I think, on looking
back, that I was so unfeeling with you last
night' — at all events, I showed so little feeling
— that you would have been entitled to be
offended with me."

Well, it is very kind of you to say that,
at any rate, though the idea is in rather
ludicrous contrast with the real features
of the case. How can I venture to put it
more clearly ? Can you easily imagine yourself
' offended ' with the Spirit Queen you
have seen in your visions V

Edith smiled, understanding the force of
the comparison, but demurely repudiated
it.

My Guardian is a divine being for me,

and very different from a creature ot flesh
and blood."

Well, then, I look upon her and yourself
as so closely identified in the way you understand,
that you must let me regard you as
sharing in the divinity. People who do not
realize all that we know about, may only see
in you what even then indeed they may be
inclined to worship, for that matter. But forme,
it is my privilege at least to worship in
you all that we both know resides there.
The result of which is that even if you had
not been able to bear to have anything
further to do with me, it would not have
been resentment I should have felt, but only
sorrow ; and even that would have been submissive
to your decision."

That's all very nice and flattering to me,
of course, but in my everyday flesh and bones
I am not in the least entitled to worship.
You do not at all realize the depths of
commonplaceness there are in me really.
You have seen the best side of me, and very
little of the other, and you overrate me quite
ridiculously ; but that does not matter, if it
does not give rise to any painful reaction

afterwards. I want to feel quite sure of your
steady cool trustworthy friendship at all
times. So now that I have apologized for
being so stupid and disagreeable last night,
I may rely on that, may I not T

You may indeed, since you graciously
wish it, in spite of last night. Of course, if
it pleases }^ou to pretend to be apologetic, I
can only submit to that caprice as I would to
any other."

I am not sure that is being sufficiently
respectful. Marian," she added gaily, as
they strolled up the platform, meeting Mrs.
Malcolm, " Mr. Mars ton says I am horribly
capricious. Do you think so badly of me ?"

Mrs. Malcolm was glad to find the conversation
on this footing, but was never apt at
badinage, so she merely put the question off
by promising to discuss Edith's numerous
failings with Mr. Marston after she had gone.
If you dare! That would be shocking.
I shall get Zephyr to reveal all your treachery
to me, so you must only say the sweetest
things, or you will be found out."

Will you want Zephyr to assure you that
we are saying sweet things of you V

You dear Marian ! You are as bad as
Mr. Marston. Long may it last, and soon
may my visit be repeated. I feel as if I were
losing all my liberty. I wonder what will
have happened when w T e three meet again."

Further talk of this kind, however, was
interrupted by the necessity of choosing places
for the travellers. Edith had her maid with
her in her own compartment, and when they
were once installed, nothing more could be
said beyond the frivolities of the moment.
Edith had quite recovered her spirits under
the sense of having behaved nicely to Marston
in compensation for what she had come to
feel her want of consideration for him the
previous evening, and took notice of the
people around, whispering little jokes to her
companions, and amused herself by alluding
aloud to some of the secrets they shared, in
veiled phrases that could bear no meaning to
the public ear. Marston met her mood as
the train moved off by a parting gesture
reminding her of their mesmeric relations,
and laughingly she called back to him from
the windows to " take care of the thread."

PASSIONS IX CONFLICT.

Terra Fildare had not accepted without
some impatience her father's announcement
of his intention to come home for her wedding,
and his authoritative desire that the
proceedings should await his arrival. Count
Garciola had resented the delay. He cared
nothing about the eclat of the ceremony,
he explained to Lady Margreave — nothing
about whether Terra's father approved or
disapproved. He cared for her, he declared,
with somewhat haughty indifference to all
else beside.

I make too great a tax on your hospitable
patience if I stay here. I put too great a
tax on myself if I go away."

Of course Lady Margreave endeavoured
to relieve his anxiety on this head by polite
assurances.

Your courtesy does not alter the facts,"
he urged in his grave grand way of talking,
his dark handsome face showing no gratification.
"It is my love for Terra that makes
me impatient truly, but nothing less than
that would make me patient. Colonel
Fildare's estimation of me as his son-in-law
is a circumstance that does not interest mein
itself."

My dear Count, I know it is the lover
and not the grande seigneur who is unreasonable,
so I will not be cross. But it is nice
to be on pleasant terms with one's wife's
relations. And the Kildare, you know, are
not used to think lightly of their family
dignity, though it may not seem important in
your eyes."

The fuller information, it should be explained,
concerning Count Garciola that had
been obtained by Sir James Margreave
through the Spanish Embassy since the
settlement of his engagement with Terra, had
more than confirmed the current idea about
him in London society, that he was a man of
genuine rank at home. His official connection
with the Embassy, though of a temporary

character, had from the first guaranteed him
against all suspicion of being in any way a
person of doubtful identity. His courtship
was undeniable, and, in truth, it appeared
represented a great deal more than an empty
title. He was rich and highly honoured,
though his career had been stormy and irregular,
and passed a great deal abroad. His
present appointment was supposed to be a
sort of experiment on his part to see how he
might be able to put up with the burdens
and restraint of an official station.

There will be wailing and gnashing of
teeth amongst the gilded matrons of Madrid,"
Sir James's friend at the Spanish Embassy
had sent him word, " when the news you send
me reaches their ears."

I am glad you are even a greater man
than I had supposed," said Terra, talking
with him after Sir James had communicated
to her these facts. '• I am not fit for a
humble station in life."

You are fit to be an empress," he
answered. " But how do you know what
station I shall give you ? Perhaps we shall
travel for awhile. I have always been impels

eel to seek fresh scenes. Why should I
deny my impulse because I shall have the
loveliest woman on earth with me wherever
I choose to go V

So be it, Salvio ; wherever we go I shall
be the wife of my husband, and that station
will content me."

She put her arm through his, and joined
her hands together, and leaned up against
his shoulder. The time had gone by when
she found caresses repulsive. Her pride
was merged now in her passion. She was
proud of the man who had been great enough
to conquer her. She would glory in talking
with him of her subjugation — in explaining
how no one, before he came, had raised in
her heart any feeling but angry independence.
She had been a stormy, untamed creature,
unfit for the smooth docility of conventional
love. She used to fancy, she told him, she
had been created without some instinct that
all other women possessed, so hateful was it
to her to think of subduing her will, and
meekly accepting the role of obedience. Evidently,
in truth, she had been marked out
as a noble quarry from the first, fit only to

be brought down by a royal hunter. And
now, having been vanquished under conditions
that satisfied her pride, she revelled
in the double sense of superiority to the
world at large and of slavery to the master
who had been strong enough to make her
his prey.

Garciola accepted her worship with deep
satisfaction, and calm, faint smiles, that were
all the more intense in their expression for
the slightness of the muscular change they
caused in his grave, immobile features. There
was nothing affected in his grand, slow
manner ; it was perfectly natural, but suggestive,
in spite of its languor, of powerful
feeling beneath the surface — rather, perhaps,
of feelings having to do with self and pride
than with the ardour of a love that could
go forth ; but still revealing great force of
passion, even if of the kind chiefly that
claims rather than gives. He had indicated
his wish early in the proceedings for a
prompt settlement of the wedding. He
would agree to anything desired by Sir
James about money matters, and all arrangements
of that kind could be put through at

the embassy ; but he loftily insisted that
there should be no delay.

4 ' ; My dear Count," Sir James remonstrated
; " we must give her father time to
telegraph a message back. It wouldn't be
mannerly to disregard him to that extent."

When the telegram came, emphatically
insisting that the wedding should wait for
Colonel Fildare's arrival, the Count had been,
not furious — ■ that word would imply a
more demonstrative kind of emotion than
that which possessed him — but darkly incensed.


I am not used to be thwarted by other
men's whims !" he said to Sir James. " Who
cares whether Colonel Fildare hands Terra
to me at the altar, or any other man ?
What do I care for forms and mummers ?"

Sir James saw that his feeling was too
nearly allied to anger to be treated with
anything but the most diplomatic courtesy.
His own temper, tact, and good-breeding
were taxed to the utmost to avert any
breach, on the Count's part, of the outward
forms of politeness ; but the crisis passed
over without the exhibition of any displeasure

of a sufficiently violent kind to prevent
the guest from staying on at Oatfielcl.
In conversation with Terra he gave vent to
his irritation more freely.

Checks of this sort," he said, " are the
obstacles in life to which I have never submitted.
Your caprices, had you shown any,
would have been difficulties it would have
been inspiring to contend with. However
obstinately they might have stood in the
way of my wishes, I could have been patient
with them. But, once you consent to put
your hand in mine, and pledge me your faith,
I can endure no interference from others.
All opposition that presumes to speak to meas
with authority is something I only burn
to crush and trample upon."

It will not be for long, Salvio," Terra
pleaded ; " and this delay once over, there
will never be anyone whose authority over
me will stand in your way again."

I should like to carry you off and marry
you my own way, with no stupid whims of
relations to stand between the glorious simplicity
of our union. It is just because the
fuss of the world, and the endless cackling of

impertinent people round, has always made
marriage seem odious to me, that I have
stood apart from it till now. I hoped with
you there need have been no such exasperating
worry."

Terra was frightened at his wrath, but in
no mood to combat it.

Try and think of the strange fact that
you have conquered me so completely," she
said. " It is so surprising to me that I am
constantly wondering at my own change of
nature. I suppose, without knowing it, I
was really craving for a master who could
rule me, all the while I seemed only resenting
with indignation the idea of being ruled. It
was the idea of being ruled by anyone not
strong enough to do it by his own natural
force that disgusted me really, I daresay."


You are splendid, my own beautiful
leopardess ! I can see how fierce you would
have been with others ; and, if it were not
for that, I should hardly have taken pleasure
in your love as I do. But you do not tell
me how you would like to be swept off as by
a whirlwind, and married in London as soon

as the express train should arrive. Money
and influence would arrange all that, even
here, in your law-loving England."

Oh, Salvio, don't think of anything so
wild ! It would be such a dreadful insult to
the Margreaves ; such a scandal !"

There had not been the tone of a settled
purpose in his desperate proposal ; but it
chimed in with his temper of mind to dally
with the idea, and play with Terra's double
dismay at the course of action suggested, and
at the thought of resisting his will, should he
choose to force it upon her.

I am not sure that I could enter on my
married life so satisfactorily in any other
way. That would be a better marriage vow,
on your part, of loyalty to me, than any you
could read out of a book, or repeat at a
priest's dictation."

I know you're joking and only tormenting
me for the fun of the thin?. Oh Salvio !
I suspect you will be an awful tyrant. Why
do I love the prospect of giving myself into
your hands chained hand and foot ?"

Because the fire of my love has kindled
your own," he answered in a deep, glowing

vol. ii. 25

voice ; and he went on with ardour, giving
words to his genuine passion, while Terra
listened with half-shut eyes and inflated
nostrils, her proud and beautiful head leaning
against his shoulder. There was no
more said at the time about the elopement
idea, and their love-making floated back into
its old groove.

Two of the three weeks they had to wait
before Colonel Fildare could reach England
passed in this way without any fresh incident
breaking the surface of the pleasant life
around. The Count said nothing even to
Terra of an indisposition to fall in with the
peaceable settlement of the wedding that
everyone assumed would take place very
soon after the Colonel's arrival. Lady Margreave
began even to talk of the guests she
would like to have in the house towards a
certain period that might become important
say the week after that in which the
Colonel was expected. The Count caught
some remarks of hers on this subject one
afternoon, and fixed his large liquid gaze
upon her without making any comment.
But on the first opportunity he had of speaking

to Terra alone he referred to what had
been said.

My splendid love," he said in his usual
grave and passion-thrilled manner, " listen
to me. Lady Margreave talks of having
guests here for our wedding. She may
spare herself that trouble, but I would
not tell her this till I had explained to
you."

What do you mean, Salvio V

This. I have put up with your father's
fancy that my happiness should wait till he
should be able to have the amusement of
being present at our wedding."

Seeing her troubled look, as though she
would have protested had she dared at this
way of describing her father's anxiety about
her, he answered the look, interrupting his
explanation.

Let us put it that way because in any
other it would be less endurable. Shall we
assume that your father is coming home
uncertain whether he will give his consent,
to see whether he likes me for a son-in-law ?
That would be a position too difficult to bear,
and then we should really have to take our

25—2

fate into our own hands, and leave all our
friends to fret as they pleased."

You know, Salvio, that nothing can keep
me back from you. I am of age, and no
authority could prevent me from coming to
you when you should call me to be your
wife. It is because our position is so strong
that we can afford to be forbearing."

I know ; that is all well, and for the
reason of what you say I have been patient
strangely patient for me. I have not
called upon you to prove your love by coming
away with me and trusting me altogether
to arrange for our marriage, because I know
what the strain would be for you. It would
be an agony for you, even though the after
reflection that you had trusted me — when all
should be well — would perhaps have been a
compensation. So I have put the idea aside,
though I considered it more seriously than
you may have imagined."

Terra listened with excitement and heightened
colour, but made no attempt to interrupt
him, though his slow deliberate speech
would have made this easy. He went on —

I will do nothing to offend your conscience,

even in the sight of your friends who
count love for nothing in the relations of men
and women, and govern their conduct by rule.
But all the same I will not submit, like a
clerk waiting his employer's pleasure, to
know when it may satisfy your father to
permit me to make you my wife. In a few
days from now I shall leave Hatfield, and
our marriage will not take place here. I
shall go to London and make all arrangements
for it to take place there, in a manner
that will not discredit your connexions, nor,
what is more important, your own merits
and beauty. Within considerable limits you
shall fix the time when it is to be, and to the
entertainment which I will arrange in London
your father shall be free to bring you at the
appointed time. On those terms he can be
present at our wedding. If he refuses "

Here he made a long pause and gazed
fixedly at Terra.

What do you mean, if he refuses ? Why
do you look at me like that V

There was a touch of her old fierceness of
manner in the question ; but the fact that it
was evoked by the apprehension he had purposely

planted in her mind only made it
pleasant' in his ears. He smiled slightly,
drawing her to him and putting one arm
round her in the calm consciousness of
possession.

Then the queen of the fete will have
to be brought to me by some other befitting
protector. Lady Margreave would be more
than welcome to me in that character. If
she should not be anxious to assume it, I
will engage among the great ladies of your
London society to find one ready to undertake
the charge. All I require is your pledge
that in one way or another, when the time
arrives, you will come. Yours is the only
consent I seek and implore ; all others I will
constrain or dispense with. Your honour
and good name are fully guarded by this
arrangement, which also has the merit, as
compared with the simpler scheme which
Lady Margreave is plotting, of guarding
mine."

Terra did not willingly fall in with this
strange programme, and pleaded to be spared
all the scenes and trials it would give rise to;
but her entreaties were of no avail, and her

own pride, working with her love, operated to
make her helpless, for she dared not put the
matter to a simple issue and decline to be
married at all on those terms. She felt that
she would be too obstinate to retreat from
any position once taken up, and therefore
that it would be wisest not to take up a
position she did not from the first seriously
mean to hold. She was too haughty by
natural disposition to cry under the circumstances,
and so pledged by many declarations
to the principle of merging her own will in
that of her chosen master that she was driven
to admit that rebellion, even in this case, would
be illogical. The conversation ended without
any explicit promise of compliance on her
part ; but the Count did not press her for this,
and assumed that his wishes would prevail
as a matter of course in the absence of any
explicit consent on his part to abandon them.

With Lady Margreave, in the first instance,
and afterwards with Sir James, he had conversation
of a very different kind.

The man's pride and arrogance are
positively a disease," the generally gentle-natured
baronet declared to his wife, when

she told him what the Count had explained
to her as the plan he had mapped out.

Poor Terra I" sighed Lady Margreave,
w I am getting frightened to think of the
future before her."

Sir James then had a long consultation
with the Count, the tone of which was a
little strained towards the close. He employed
every argument available to show the
inconvenience of the proposed arrangement.
As Miss Fildare's father was on the point of
arriving in England, it was needless for him
to do more than discuss the Count's proposals
as a friend of both parties. He claimed no
authority in the matter ; but he represented
that Colonel Fildare would certainly not
consent to any course of action that put himself
and his daughter in a somewhat undignified
position — that the Count was practically
insisting on a marriage which, if celebrated,
would be needlessly surrounded by the
atmosphere of a family. quarrel, and so forth.
If he would only exercise a little forbearance,
he could take over his bride under circumstances
of general satisfaction with so distinguished
an alliance, all of which Sir James

might as well have represented to one of the
suits of armour beside the fire-place in his
own hall. The Count showed no inclination
now to lose his temper ; but he was quite
immoveable from the position he had taken up.
It was Sir James himself whose temper ran the
worst risk, this time, of being lost, for his irritation
with the Count was really very profound.
The resolute Spaniard had inquired towards
the close of the conversation if he understood
Sir James to mean that Colonel
Fildare would be sure to refuse compliance
with the London marriage under the conditions
proposed. Sir James was careful to
guard himself from committing the Colonel
in his absence, but gave Count Garciola to
understand clearly that, in his own opinion,
Colonel Fildare would be about as likely to
consent as to become the Count's groom.

And in the event of his refusal, which
you are no doubt quite right in foreseeing'
may I fall back on the other plan, which
would be so very pleasing to me : that her'
ladyship, your wife, should escort Miss
Fildare to London ?"

In reference to that part of the plan,"

Sir James said rather stiffly, " I need not
speak in any ambiguous terms. I could
certainly not give my own consent to an
intervention on Lady Margreave's part
between Miss Fildare and her father, which
would be in the nature, in my opinion, of an
insult to Colonel Fildare's very legitimate
pride."

The Count bowed with gravity.

In that case," he said, " I see that my
views must be reconsidered. I have endeavoured
to arrange everything in a way
which would respect Miss Fildare's susceptibilities
to the utmost ; but I am quite
resolved that the essential point shall be
attained. I will, if you will permit me, confer
with her once more, and will then, with
profound gratitude for your prolonged hospitality,
beg your consent to my departure."

Sir James's instinct of courtesy prevailed
for the moment over his smothered displeasure.
He assured the Count that their
disagreement about the matter they had been
talking of need not impair their pleasant
relations as host and guest ; but the Count
only grew more and more grandiosely polite.

and persisted in his request that a carriage
might be ordered to take him to the station
for a late afternoon express.

Tears forced themselves to Terra's eyes
this time, when a little later the Count was
alone with her again. The prospect of his
abrupt departure was shocking to ber in the
extreme, and perhaps even more painful than
shocking. On his part, he was no longer
chilly and formal, as during the interview just
concluded, but almost excited, exhilarated by
close contact with a crisis even more stimulating
than that which he had organized in
the first instance.

"The time for compromise and concession
■ — for bending to whims and rules — has gone
by, my glorious Terra," he explained with
animation. "I do not regret that we are
driven now to take our destiny into our own
hands, and you will not be sorry for it in the
end."

The plan he now unfolded required one
desperate act of resolution on Terra's part ;
all the rest would be made easy for her.
There need be nothing which the most fastidious
critic of her conduct could call an

elopement ; but she must place herself by
her own act under the protection of a
chaperone, who would be willing to see her
safely through an immediate marriage. His
peculiar position as a diplomatist, representing
a foreign Government, would enable him to
circumvent some difficulties which an English
subject might have encountered. Money and
influence would do the rest ; and he undertook
that they should be married with all due
form in the course of a few days after her
arrival in town.

She would have to do nothing more than
put herself in the train, and be received, on
her arrival in London, by a lady he would
enlist in their service. This lady was a
Mrs. Waterton, residing in a certain fashionable
" Gate," by Hyde Park, whom Terra had
no doubt met in society. He would see her
directly he got to London ; she would herself
telegraph and write to Terra, and the
young lady had only herself to promise him
that she would come with or without the
consent of the Margreaves. Of course that
would not be given ; but it was equally of
course that they would not employ physical

force to control her actions. It was only the
first wrench of breaking away from them that
would cost her an effort ; but in achieving
this she would at the same time prove to herself
and to him the strength of her character
and the magnificent reality of her love.

The prospect was frightful to her ; but,
opposed to all her protestations and entreaties,
he only brought forward one argument.
The only other course open to her would
really be more painful; that would be the
course of leaving Hatfield under his protection.
He was perfectly ready to carry her
off, if she would prefer that ; the plan he
had devised was merely aimed at sparing
her the effort it would be to her to accept
this arrangement. He did not in so many
words declare that if she refused his terms
he would not marry her at all, but this
was practically implied in the persistence
with which he adhered to the position that
beside the two methods of action thus laid
before her there was no other that could be
entertained.

In the course of the afternoon the Count
duly departed, and left Terra with a heart

palpitating from the effects of a tearing
process that she found even more agonizing
than she expected. Lady Margreave, who
spent the afternoon with her in the hope of
soothing her agitation — manifestly none the
less intense because it was pent up — learned
nothing from her concerning the plans for the
future which she and the Count had formed,
beyond the broad fact that assuredly their
engagement was in no way broken off.

I must say, I do think it is the greatest
possible pity that the Count could not makeup
his mind to be more like other people in
this matter," Lady Margreave ventured to
suggest, partly in sympathy with Terra and
parti 7- from a sense of personal annoyance in
the matter.

I cannot see that it is the Count's fault
at all' Terra retorted. " I should not hesitate
to blame him, if I did ; but papa gave
rise to all the trouble, really. It was wholly
unnecessary for him to delay the wedding.
It is not as if I were a child, and his consent
after all more than a matter of sentiment.
Then it is not as if there could be any
question of doubt as to whether papa would

or would not wish to consent to such a
marriage as this. But it is no use talking
of it."

Lady Margreave agreed in her own heart
to that last view, at all events, and mentally
scolded herself for the want of tact she had
been guilty of in giving way to a remark,
even flavoured with criticism, on the Count
in conversation with his devoted bride-elect.


A DESPERATE VENTURE.

Telegrams and letters arrived at Hatfield
for Terra in great profusion during the next
few days; but she volunteered no confidences
concerning their contents. She was more
than usually affectionate in her manner
towards her aunt ; evidently suffering a great
deal, but steadfast in her reserve concerning
the understanding between herself and the
Count which had been established.

Sir James and Lady Margreave agreed in
being very sorry for themselves in reference
to the disagreeable entanglement in which
they were thus involved ; but rejoiced in
thinking it would be over in a few days,
when Colonel Fildare should get home
and relieve them of all responsibility in
respect to the restive lovers. They did not
at first contemplate the possibility of a

further aggravation of the crisis within the
short time that remained before the Colonel's
return.

The situation was more fully developed
the day the Indian mail reached Brindisi.
In the morning Lady Margreave received a
brief telegram, announcing the traveller's
safe arrival on European soil and promising
his speedy presence. The message was brief
but cheery : just the few words to be expected
from a homeward - bound Anglo-indian
in good spirits. But a few hours
later Sir James received another telegram,
also from the Colonel, begging for a telegraphic
reply, to be sent to him to the care
of the station - master at Turin, stating
whether his injunctions as to the delay of
the marriage had been respected, and also
whether anything special had occurred in
connection with that event.

This message was received about twelve
o'clock. Sir James showed it to his wife;
but they both agreed that it w r as not of a
kind that could be advantageously shown to
Terra. They were profoundly puzzled by it,
but could only reply to the effect that the

vol. ii. 26

Colonel's behests had been obeyed, though
they had given rise to annoyances too complicated
for explanation by wire.

Sir James gave this message, duly enclosed
and directed to the nearest telegraphic
station, to a servant, mentioning by name
one of the men about the stables, who was
to be instructed to get ready a dogcart and
take it without delay. The order, having
been given with this precision, led to the
explanation, brought back from the stables,
that the particular Henry in question had
driven out Miss Fildare in the victoria
shortly before.

The resources of the Oatfleld establishment
were still equal to the emergency.
Another man was sent for, and Sir James
was not even disturbed by a passing sense of
surprise that Terra should have gone out fora
morning drive.

It was not till an hour later that Lady
Margreave came into the library, where he
was sitting, with an open letter in her hand,
and her usual dignified composure completely
thrown into confusion.

"She's gone off to London, by herself!"

11 Good heavens !"

The subject was discussed more fully ; but
the news which Lady Margreave exploded
in the few words set down, and her husband's
exclamation, summed up all there was to tell
or to say on the matter. The letter Lady Margreave
had received had been brought back by
the servant who had driven Miss Fildare to
the station — the further and more important
of the two stations made use of by residents
at Hatfield — from which two expresses went
to London in the course of the day : one
about noon, and the other between five and
six in the evening.

Terra wrote briefly, with earnest affection,
and imploring Lady Margreave not to think
of her unkindly. Her marriage would take
place within a few days; meanwhile, she was
going on a visit to Mrs. Waterton, of whom
Lady Margreave knew, at all events, enough
to know that she would be recognised as a
decorous chaperone. Everything could be
made to seem quite matter-of-course if Lady
Margreave pleased. She had slipped away
quietly, to avoid painful scenes of parting,
and w T ould write again from London.

26—2

The situation was calculated to take one's
breath away, Sir James recognised, after it
had been contemplated in all its bearings, but
what was to be done ? Nobody was breaking
the law — no force could be invoked to prevent
Miss Fildare from transferring herself to
Durham Gate. It was all most monstrous,
and Terra was frightfully to blame, and she
might come terribly to grief in the desperate
game she was playing — but how could she be
stopped ? And yet, if nothing were done to
stop her, and if Colonel Fildare, as his telegram
seemed to imply, was coming home with some
clearly defined anxiety in his mind that the
marriage should be delayed, what would he
say when he learned the alarming news ? And
the telegram sent to Turin now constituted a
most inadequate reply to the inquiry it dealt
with. Further despatches had to be prepared
for consignment to the care of the stationmaster
at that place, and eventually it became
evident that Sir James must himself go to
town to meet Colonel Fildare, and spare him
what might be the dangerous delay of a needless
journey to Hatfield. The whole transaction
was terribly troublesome and exasperating.

It would be obvious to the servants
that something was seriously wrong ; but still
it was clear that Sir James had to go.
Happily, the large party that had been staying
at Oat field a few weeks previously had
dwindled down now to one or two intimates,
and the circumstances under which the
expected wedding had been dislocated would
not, at any rate, be at once proclaimed in
private confidences all over the country.

Terra went through many stages of varied
distress during the long hours of her lonely
journey to town. At intervals she was
appalled at the conceivable consequences of
the tremendous step she was taking, and impelled
to stop and go back at all hazards to
Oatneld. Then she would go over the arguments
by which she had originally brought
herself, or been brought, to take the resolution
she was now carrying out, and put all her
trust in her lover, feeling that to do anything
else would be madness under the circumstances,
for it would mean the wreck of her
happiness and the utter annihilation of her
future life. She might be running some
unknown dangers, but should the shadow of

probably unreal perils terrify her to the extent
of driving her to choose certain misery
instead ?

It was a trial, a frightful trial, her lover
had imposed on her. But she was no ordinary,
conventional girl ; he was not to be judged
by the tame standards of English decorum ;
their mutual love was fire of an extraordinary
order, that naturally burned in a somewhat
unusual way.

The smallest things frightened her most,
however ; the too intense glances of a fellow-passenger,
left alone with her for a portion of
the journey ; his proffer of a newspaper, that
she could only decline with frigidity —though
fuming with indignation in her heart at the
thought that she was in so helpless a position
that a stranger could presume to address her.
Then there was a little delay at one part of
the journey — signals against the train, that
really meant no harm, but kept them at a
standstill in a cutting, waiting and whistling
for ten minutes, during which all the passengers
were putting their heads out of the
windows and making inquiries, and during
which the people in Terra's compartment —

then three or four in number — exchanged remarks
about the delay, wondering if there was
an accident ahead, and whether it might not
be better in that case to stop at Bedford,
instead of going on to London that night.
One gentleman present had known of a train,
under such circumstances, only discharging
its passengers in London eight hours after
they had been due. Terra, silent in her
corner, and a prey to her own reflections, was
chilled to the marrow by the prospect thus
suggested to her.

Even the ten minutes, however, were
caught up in the end, and the train came in,
with perfect exactitude, between six and
seven. In apprehension, then, as to whether
the promised arrangements for her reception
would have worked properly, Terra went
through a new series of mental agonies. The
ghastliness of her fate if she should find no
one to meet her, forced her to dwell in imagination
on the course she would then have to
take ; how she would have to drive in a cab
to Mrs. Waterton's ; how perhaps the "trials"
imposed upon her by her lover would not
really be found to be confined to the horror

of the railway journey, and how perhaps she
should only find him waiting for her with
some new programme claiming her renewed
submission. The strain on her nervous
system, well under command as this always
was in her case, was very great, and the
actual circumstances of her reception a relief
to her of proportionate intensity.

Certainly her lover was present on the
platform, but not alone. From the miserable
helplessness of her journey she was suddenly
plunged in the midst of a reception almost
royally respectful and reassuring. Mrs.
Waterton, a small brunette of animated
manner, was present, accompanied by another
lad 7 , and attended by a footman from her
carriage, waiting to take charge of Terra's
impedimenta. Count Garciola was himself
accompanied by two other gentlemen, both
of his own nationality, dressed with extreme
precision and finish. The Count received
her at the railway carriage-door, the rest of
the group collecting at a few paces. His
greeting was faultless — the few words spoken
a well-spring of passion and delight, but his
manner appropriate to the reception of a

princess. As Terra stepped on to the pavement,
the two other gentlemen bowed to her,
hat in hand, as though she were a queen ;
and while the footman unsealed himself in
the but too easy task of collecting her property
— for she had but one hand-bag with
her — Mrs. Waterton came forward with effusion.


My dear Miss Fildare, it is so sweet of
you to come to me. You cannot realize how
enchanted I am."

The passengers getting out of the carriage
behind Terra wondered what illustrious personage
was embodied in the very handsome,
certainly, but angry-looking, solitary girl
with whom they had been travelling.

You know Miss Fildare V said the Count
to Mrs. Waterton meanwhile, with stately
solemnity, ' : so I need not present her to you
by name. I merely introduce her as a lady
who is not only entitled to our utmost consideration
on all grounds, but who claims our
enthusiasm as a heroine, by her splendid
courage — not to speak of my personal devotion."


Mrs. Waterton's carriage was close by —

a large landau. Thither Terra was conducted
by the Count on one side and Mrs. Waterton
on the other, the rest of the suite behind —
so far unnoticed. Mrs. Waterton followed
her into the carriage, taking a seat herself
with her back to the horses. The other lady
then got in, and was pointedly presented to
Terra — instead of the presentation being put
the other way, as the lady's seniority and
title might have suggested — as the Marchesa
Tortoza.

The Marchesa said a few words, with a
gracious bow, in Spanish. Terra, during the
last few weeks, had been studying the language,
but was not yet sufficiently familiar
with it to catch the meaning of what was
said. Mrs. Waterton interpreted :

The Marchesa says she is delighted to bethe
first Spanish lady introduced to the future
Countess Garciola."

The Count meanwhile approached the
carriage-door.

My friends ," he said, mentioning

by name and title the gentlemen with him,
wish to know if they may have the honour
of being presented to you, if only for a

moment ; of course I will take another opportunity
of making them known to you
more fully."

Terra was beginning to feel this adulation,
welcome as it was after the fears and misery
of her journey, an almost too overwhelming
reaction. She could hardly command her
voice to speak. The March esa slipped on to
the front seat of the carriage, so as to let
her change her place to the corner nearest
the door. Terra bowed silently in reply to
the Count's inquiry, and he presented the two
young men, each of whom kissed her extended
hand with easy continental grace. She recalled
the Count to her side by a look.

You will say all thai is nice for me, please.
I am not quite equal — just now "

Of course. You must be tired ; and
Mrs. Waterton, I know, will take all care of
you. I shall come to inquire after you this
evening, after dinner ; but you must receive
me or remain alone, just as you prefer. In
any case, I shall see you tomorrow."

He pressed her hand in acknowledgment
of their brief parting, and bowed to Mrs.
Waterton with a grateful smile.

Au re voir, dear lady, with a thousand
thanks."

Then the carriage door was closed, and
they drove off.

"You came just as you are, dear, didn't
you V Mrs. Waterton asked. " You haven't
any things you want looked after ?"

I brought nothing," Terra said. " That
was the last arrangement."

Of course it was ! So sweet of you to
have acted upon it. I should have been
frightfully disappointed if you had done
otherwise. It would have wasted all my
careful preparations; only I felt bound to
ask, for fear you should have had anything
with you. You might have forgotten it in
the excitement, and then we, your faithful
servants, might have been taken to task afterwards.
What fun it all is !"

It was such a relief to find you,"
Terra began ; and then her lips quivered,
and she was unable for the moment to
go on.

Have a good cry, dear," said Mrs.
Waterton cheerfully ; " I am sure you must
want it. Nothing makes one want to cry

more than excitement ; and now we are by
ourselves, why shouldn't you ?"

The straightforward simplicity of these
counsels, however, made Terra laugh ; and
though she wiped her swimming eyes without
disguise, the nervous agitation passed
away. She was fully mistress of herself
again when they got to Durham Gate, and
was then at once conducted to her own room
the best guest-chamber in the house — where
Mrs. Waterton, bright and animated, and intensely
enjoying the originality of the whole
situation, explained all her arrangements,
introduced Terra to the stock of immediate
necessaries that had been got ready for her
use, and refreshed her with tea and the influence
of her own gay spirit. She had
offered to leave her alone to lie down for a
while, but Terra declared she had been alone
enough all the afternoon in the train, and if
Mrs. Waterton could stay and talk to her,
would greatly prefer her company.

If I can ! My dear child, I've got to do
exactly as you bid me. We have all sworn
oaths of allegiance to you of the most appalling
sort. I'm sure the Count will ask you

tomorrow whether you have any complaints
to make, and if you have, our lives will not
be worth an hour's purchase. But I'm quite
a willing devotee. It is the greatest imaginable
fun — all the excitement of an elopement,
and at the same time nobody can take us
into custody. I do not know what people
will say, but I am daring by nature, and like
to make life a little more piquant than usual.
I'm half Spanish, you know, and my goodman
has mines and estates in Castille and a
house of our own in Cordova. I shall look
to you to patronise me handsomely when we
meet in Madrid, in return for my present services.
What a joke it is for Don Garciola
to marry after all ! You're a wonderful
witch ! "

After a while a dressmaker in attendance
was admitted to an audience, with the view
of hastily adapting a costume that had been
provisionally got ready for the evening, and
then the ladies had yet some further talk. It
was very interesting to Terra to hear some
account of her lover and his surroundings
from the lips of a third person. There were
many details about which he had not been

communicative, and she reluctant to question
him too closely; but Mrs. Waterton
threw floods of light on all the mysteries
over which Terra had speculated in every
sentence she uttered. The Count had come
early into his great inheritance of name and
fortune, had been very much his own master
from boyhood, had been always a great scapegrace,
and not on the best terms with his
family, when his father's early and unexpected
death, closely followed by that of his
elder brother, had invested him with title
and estates. He was away somewhere when
his father died, Mrs. Waterton believed, but
turned up mysteriously soon afterwards
Then he developed a great mania for travelling,
and never would settle down at home
or get married. It was impossible that he
could, as a roving bachelor, ever have spent a
tithe of his income. He could not but be immensely
rich, but, above all things, he was
never willing to do anything like anybody
else. This queer arrangement about the
plan of his marriage was entirely in keeping
with his natural manners and customs. If
Terra had shrunk from the part imposed upon

her, he would probably have either vanished
off the scene altogether, or have done something
more violent still. But now that he
had got his way, he would simply treat her
like all the queens of Europe rolled into
one.

Already, as Terra listened to Mrs. Water-ton's
lively narrative, her life so far, even as
passed latterly under the stately shelter of the
Margreaves' hospitality, seemed to fade away
into an insignificant background, and, with
her enthusiasm for the Count inflamed to the
utmost by all she heard, she looked back,
when left to herself at last to dress for dinner,
with terror on the recollection of the doubts
by which her own mind had been assailed
during the previous few days as to whether
she would or would not take the step required
from her.

Any danger passed may often seem more
alarming in the retrospect than while it is
actually confronted, and, when the retrospect
shows that it was not fully appreciated at the
time, it may seem especially frightful. Terra
remembered how her lover had told her that
if she would perform the single act of heroism

allotted to her, the rest would be made easy
for her ; and in the recognition of the completeness
with which this pare of the promise
was being fulfilled she found abundant justification
for the entire trust she now reposed
in the Count, and for great contrition at the
thought of the doubts which had troubled her
during her journey.

The hastily adapted costume of black and
gold which had been provided for her adornment
did no discredit to her glowing beauty.
At dinner they were only four, the three
ladies — for the Marchesa was staying in the
house — and " my good man," as Mrs. Water-ton
called him — an unobtrusive, middle-aged
man, who spoke very little in a quiet voice
and took everything as a matter of course.
He disappeared after dinner, when the ladies
went up to the drawing-room. Very shortly
afterwards, for they had not dined till late,
Count Garciola joined them. He showed his
satisfaction at finding Terra ready to receive
him, and not taking refuge in seclusion, by
the proud light in his handsome though
immobile features, but was at first even more
courtly and grandiose in his manner than

vol. ii. 27

usual — in continuation, as it were, of the
effect he had prepared at the railway station.
Then, in a little while, Mrs. Waterton bore
off the Marchesa to her boudoir, opening out
of the back drawing-room, with easy badinage
declaring that engaged people might be adorable
separately, but intolerable together, and
left the lovers to each other.

The Count praised Terra for keeping up
her courage instead of giving way and shutting
herself up.

You would have been fully excusable this
time if you had been upset, but it is all the
more splendid of you to have been ready forme
this evening."

The hard part is over for me now, you
know. You said the rest should be easy, and
I am beginning to see how wise I was to
trust you entirely."

Many little points connected with their
eccentric programme had been discussed in
the notes that had passed between them since
the Count left Oatfleld, and these were now
talked over. Terra was more than ever
intoxicated with the delight of being-controlled
and directed by an authority she

could accept, not only without offence to her
amour propre, but with a sense of exaltation
in obedience. Her lover was at last thoroughly
content, and very ardent in his devotion.
They spent a glorious evening, and when the
Count took his departure, Mrs. Waterton
saw Terra to her room and waited on her
with a zealous attention that she already
began to appreciate as too fitly paying tribute
to the dawning glories of her future station,
to be in the least decree embarrassing or
irksome.

The next day and the day after were spent
in preparations for the wedding. Handsome
presents of jewellery arrived at intervals, and
betrayed the Count's personal intervention
in the whole business, but the direction of
Terra's miscellaneous shopping was in Mrs.
Waterton's hands. She was rather startled
at first by the daring disregard of cost which
her chaperone urged upon her, but readily
persuaded that she would best please the
Count by achieving brilliant results rather
than by keeping down expenditure. Her
lover spent each afternoon in her company,
dined at Durham Gate the first evening,

27—2

and entertained Mrs. Waterton and herself
the second at a club where lady guests were
permissible.

On the morning of the third day, with but
two more to elapse before the date fixed for
the final ceremony, Terra was in her room
interviewing a dressmaker, with Mrs. Water-ton's
maid, and one who had been taken on for
her own special service, in attendance, when
Mrs. Waterton came in looking rather startled.

There is some one downstairs in the
drawing-room who wants to see you," she
said, with a strange intonation in her voice.

who is it r

Mrs. Waterton held a gentleman's card in
her hand. She looked up at Terra for a few
moments in silence, flicking the card backwards
and forwards against her left forefinger.


Can you guess V

Terra saw that a situation of importance
had arisen, but did not realize what it meant.
She held out her hand for the card. Mrs.
Waterton, after a moment's hesitation, gave
it to her, and she read the name — " Colonel
Fildare."

My father !"

She changed colour a little as she stood
with the card in her hand ; but an emergency
which merely threatened to put her on her
mettle was not one of the kind, like the
reaction of feeling at the railway station,
calculated to overthrow her self-command.

"What would you like to do V said Mrs.
Waterton. " I did not say more than that I
would tell you he was here."

Of course I will go down and see him.
I shall be ready in a few minutes."

Very well," said Mrs. Waterton ; " if you
want me, ring and send for me."

Before the servants and the dressmaker
they could not well discuss the niceties of
the crisis. Nothing more was said, and as
soon as her dress had been re-arranged Terra
went down.

PATATRAS !

Colonel Fildare was a very well-built,
soldierly old man, of middle height and compact
figure, bald as to the top of the head,
with the hair left to him grey and the full
moustache almost white. He was standing
on the hearth rug as his daughter came into
the room, in a buttoned frock-coat and light
gloves — a good-looking old soldier, with much
force of character depicted in nose and chin,
showing no trace of unusual excitement,
though his dark eyes, gleaming below shaggy
white eyebrows, always gave his face, in
repose, an expression of intensity. Terra
and he were well-matched in their dignity
and strength. He greeted her without any
theatrical display of emotion, either of joy at
the sight of her or anger at the peculiar circumstances
under which they met. He held

out his hands, into which she put hers, and
he kissed her on the cheek.

Well, Terra my dear, I arn glad to see
you again."

I'm glad to see you, papa." After a
pause that was only momentary she added,
instantly falling in with the attitude of coolness
and composure of which he set the
example, " I hope you have been having a
pleasant journey."

Well, yes ; most of it was pleasant. The
last part has been anxious, it is true, but
there has been nothing the matter with the
trains or the boats."

I am sorry you have been anxious, but I
hope that feeling is over now."

"Well, yes; the worst of it is over. I
was afraid of being too late."

Terra seated herself in an easy-chair. The
Colonel remained standing.

Too late for what, papa V she inquired
calmly.

Too late to — to introduce you to someone
you ought to know. And I'm not in a
hurry to do that now, for I am afraid it will
give you pain."

The answer conveyed nothing to her mind,
but was so unlike what she had expected
that she opened her eyes widely and looked
full in her father's face, with a combative
expression, but still a sense of bewilderment,
as nothing yet showed her the particular
form of attack she was called upon to
encounter.

I do not understand."

Just so. I don't want to startle you,
though you are so courageous. I want you
to realize first that I am not come here to
fume and make a disturbance, though you
have been arranging to carry matters with
rather a high hand."

It was impossible to explain. I have
always relied upon your full approval in the
end. You could not see at the time how
peculiarly unfortunate it was that you insisted
on delay. I was sure you would not have
done so had you really understood all the
circumstances'

Marriage lasts a long time. It is seldom
so unwise as young people may think to be
rather deliberate about it in the beginning."

There was a strange tone of reserved

strength about her father's manner that
puzzled Terra. He did not seem angry, but
he was clearly out of sympathy with her
marriage programme, and yet as free from
excitement as if he held the command of the
situation.

"I am glad to be able to explain all to
you, papa. It will take a little time, but I
will begin, if you like. You see, as I was old
enough to act for myself, I was obliged to
decide for myself; I could not think of
myself as a child waiting for orders'

No, my dear, certainly not. You are of
age, and your own mistress. That is what
frightened me under the circumstances. I
thought you might be taking a step of importance
without knowing all the reasons pro
and con, and be sorry afterwards."

Terra sighed, as over the weaknesses of
human nature exemplified in her father's
attitude of mind.

"I do not think I shall be sorry afterwards
; but what I cannot at present make
out is why you are not delighted with my
engagement. When I find my happiness ina
marriage of an extraordinarily brilliant

character, one might have expected my
friends, and you especially, to be well
pleased. Have you imagined that Count
Garciola is — how shall I put it 1 — an adventurer,
and not what he seems V

Terra asked the question in a tone of
reserved strength herself this time, and with
a comfortable consciousness of the evidence
at her command to be had by ringing the bell.

I never entertained the smallest shadow
of a doubt on that subject," said the Colonel,
to her surprise.

"Then am I simply crazy, that I can't
make out what — why you object, if you do
object V

11 Pardon me, my daughter ; I have not
come here to object. You have reminded
me that you are of age, and I should never
profess any authority I had no right to enforce.
I do not even come to reproach you
for having a little upset the Margreaves.
You are your own mistress."

Terra did not form into words the inquiry,
Then why have you come ¥' feeling that it
would be rude, and a poor return for her
father's submission to the somewhat aggressive

declaration of rights on which she had
practically entered ; but she looked the
inquiry in silence, though not without a
gleam of affection in her expectant gaze.

u I am come, my daughter," said the
Colonel, taking two paces forward, and standing
beside her chair, lightly resting one hand
upon her shoulder, " to give you a piece of
information on which you will be free to act
exactly as you choose. But, to begin with,
get rid of the idea, if it is in your mind, that
I want to tyrannize or constrain you. I
couldn't, you know, if I wished to."

What do you mean, papa ? Do speak
plainly."

I will ; but I never had such a painful
duty to discharge in my life. I am making
all this delay lest the shock of what I have
to say should do you harm. I am what's
called breaking something to you."

Terra was gradually feeling unnerved ; but
she could not escape as yet from the impression
that all these strange manoeuvres —
unexpected as they were —-represented some
sort of policy directed against her marriage
which it was her business to confront and

disarm. She did not attempt to speak, and
merely waited for the disclosure,

There is an obstacle in the way of your
marriage with the Count that has no more
to do with my fancies on the subject than
with the Governor-general of India."

Terra was paling, certainly, but there was
a dark, fierce look in her face.

Terra, my poor girl, you can no more
marry Count Garciola than you can marry
Sir James Margreave."

"Why?"

For the same reason. Some one else
has been beforehand with you."

Terra leaned back in her chair, and the
fall meaning of what had just been said came
over her soul as with a sensation of physical
agony that made her, without consciousness
of the action, put up both hands to her
bosom. Her father remained standing
beside her, looking down on her face as a
surgeon might watch a patient, to see
if he were giving way under the effects of
an operation.

She grew quite pale, and the room swam
before her eyes for a moment ; but her will

instinctively asserted itself against the inclination
to faint, and she recovered self-command
enough to say slowly, after a few
moments of heavy breathing :

"My father, if you say this without
knowing it is true "

I should deserve, then," said the Colonel,
going on with the sentence she seemed
to find it difficult to finish, "that you
never spoke to me or looked in my face
again."

And yet it is impossible. You are the
victim of some frightful deception. You
believe it true ; but it cannot be !"

I said unless I knew it to be true you
would have the right to refuse ever to seeme
again."

M If it is true, you must pray God with
me that I may die."

May God strengthen you, my child,"
said the Colonel solemnly, " to bear this
trial!"

Let me think," Terra said, in a low
voice.

Her father drew a chair near hers, and sat
down.

Presently Terra spoke again.

What you have said has nearly killed
me ; and even if you should be wrong, I shall
hardly be the same again. But I know you
are saying what you think true — that you
are not playing any part. Papa, I unsay
one thing I was trying to say just now —
what you said for me. Even if you are
wrong, I shall be able to forgive the mistake.
But do not think I believe it. You
must tell me all you know, and then I will
see the Count. There shall be no misunderstanding."


The Colonel bowed gravely.

If you are strong enough, that will
perhaps be best ; but you are setting yourself
a hard task. The facts are these. The
Count married when he was a young man,
in Seville, before he became the important
personage he grew to be afterwards, when
his father and elder brother died. The
woman was far below him in station, though,
of course, very handsome. They lived
together for a time on terms that rapidly
grew intolerable. In a fit of passion she
attempted his life. When he cast her off,

this fact against her — for there were witnesses
who but just frustrated her attempt
to stab him as he slept — kept her quiet.
That is fifteen years ago. He has spent his
time since then chiefly abroad ; she, with
another man of her own class, w T ho has
passed as her husband. I have testimony
with me that proves all this ; I have papers,
and I have — the woman !"

Terra shrank at the last word, but uttered
no cry. She said calmly, as her father
ceased speaking :

w I will hear what the Count has to say.
How did you learn all this ?"

I cannot tell you."

Terra looked up in sudden surprise.

Build no hopes on that," said the
Colonel. " There are other secrets mixed up
with this. I am bound, in honour, not to
reveal them. They do not affect the authenticity
of what I have told you. See the
Count. Tell him what I have told you — and
that I declare myself in a position to prove
what I have said."

Mrs. Waterton was sent for at last, and
was not a little bewildered by the state in

which she found her guest — looking as
though she had gone through a three weeks 7
illness in the last half hour.

Terra did not pretend that nothing had
happened, but begged her to ask no questions
for the moment, but to send for Count
Garciola : to send an urgent message that
would bring him without a moment's loss of
time.

I will wait here till he comes," Terra
said, without moving from her chair.

Mrs. Waterton did not dispute the directions
given her, but looked with some
embarrassment at Colonel Fildare.

"Am I to tell the Count," she asked,
that Colonel Fildare is here ?"

Colonel Fildare," replied the person in
question, " will not be here when the Count
arrives, so you need say nothing on that
head. My daughter wishes to see the Count
alone, and I respect her wish. I have to
offer you my profound apologies for my
intrusion and strange behaviour. That will
explain itself later. But it may be that my
daughter will want to send for me again
after she has seen the Count. May I rely

on your great kindness for the despatch of a
messenger to me in that case V

Yes ; certainly."

M Then I will wait till I hear from you at
a place conveniently within call — Bailey's
Hotel."

Mrs. Waterton went away to write a note
and give her orders to a footman, to seek for
the Count, in a hansom, wherever he might
be, if not at his own hotel.

Terra begged her father to leave her, and
he went. Mrs. Waterton came back to her
immediately afterwards, with the double
purpose of offering moral support to Miss
Fildare after the interview she had evidently
found trying, and of ascertaining what line
of attack the Colonel had developed, apparently
with such remarkable effect. Terra,
however, was in a frame of mind very unlike
that in which, on the evening of her arrival,
she had found relief and pleasure in talking
with her hostess. She remained immovable
in the chair in which she had received the
terrible blow just dealt her, in a condition
of lassitude that seemed out of keeping
with her usual energetic character. She
vol. ii. 28

made no pretence of disguising the severity
of her wound ; but she told Mrs. Waterton
that she could explain nothing till she
had seen the Count. She acknowledged
herself to be almost distracted ; but conversation
would not only be no relief — it
would be impossible.

You shall know all later — or it will not
matter ; but I cant explain."

The effort to speak at all was evidently a
strain on her nerves, too great to be borne,
almost. In turn, Mrs. Waterton left her to
herself.

So, when the Count arrived, which he did
after a brief delay, the servant having found
him at home, Mrs. Waterton met him in the
hall, and beckoned him into her morning-room.
He asked what was the matter, with
some appearance of anxiety mingled with
displeasure.

Colonel Fildare has been here, and
has had an interview with his daughter.
She seems strangely overcome ; but I
do not know what has passed between
them."

Where is he V asked the Count, with

the displeasure of his tone asserting itself in
the ascendant.

11 He has gone ; but Miss Fildare will say

nothing till she has seen you."

The Count said he would go to her at
once, inquired where he should find her, and
went upstairs.

The white, tearless, but distracted face she
turned towards him, as he came in, was
startling in its expression, and indicative of
some feeling that a mere stormy interview
with a despotically-minded father opposed to
her wishes could hardly have accounted for
in the case of a girl with her unusual strength
of character.

11 What in heaven's name is the matter ?"
he began.

Salvio, I do not believe it !" she answered,
with wild fervour. " This is a horrible
nightmare ! But come and tell me what I
have heard is false."

He came up and drew a low chair close to
her, and put his arm round her, and kissed
her as he took her hand and held it in his
own. She did not resist, but did not

28—2

respond. She looked in his eyes with a
gaze of inquiring terror.

Now, what is it that you do not believe,
but that affects you in this extraordinary
manner V

They say," said Terra, in a low choking
voice, " that you are married already."

The Count gave no melodramatic start,
and did not draw away from her altogether,
though he drew back a little, nevertheless —
still holding her hand. He paused, gazing
at her intently for a little interval, during
which she looked back still into his eyes in
search of the truth, with knitted brow and
lips apart.

You did right not to believe," he said at
last.

But, Salvio, don't torture me ! I don't
believe, but tell me it is a horrible, baseless
story — this cruel falsehood ! Who has imposed
it on my father ?"

My poor Terra, you have suffered. This
story is, as you say, a baseless and a cruel
falsehood, so far as it implies that there is
any existing bar to our union. I do not
know, I cannot guess, the first word of this

mystery — how it has come up in this way to
trouble our peace ; but take comfort at once 7
and know that we can afford both to disregard
it utterly."

"Tell me more, Salvio! tell me everything
there is to tell. I have been driven nearly
mad. My father talks of proofs, and certainty.
But it would he so much easier to
die than to believe'

The Count's look darkened, and his voice
deepened. As usual, he was deliberate in
speaking.

It is hard on you," he said at last, " that
you should be tortured in this way ; but it is
hard also on me that I should have to
defend myself against nameless and unsupported
mariners. I do not know what you
have heard ; but I will not let pride stand in
the way of trying to restore your peace of
mind. It is true that many years ago, when
a very young and impulsive man, under
strange conditions that do not matter now,
I married. This horrible episode in my
early life — horrible for many reasons — is
completely passed now, and 1 have desired
to treat it as though it had never taken

place, as, indeed, it has never been known, as
I thought, to more than a very few persons.
Why should you have been called upon to
listen to its details, when it is passed, repented
of, and clone with ? The woman is
dead."

The manner in which he thus explained
the case brought forcibly back to her the
manner in which Colonel Fildare had wound
up his narrative of the same episode : "I
have proofs; and I have the woman." If the
Count had happened to word his denial of
the charge brought against him in some
different form, she might not have been
stung by the suspicion that now assailed her,
and would probably have flung herself sobbing
into his arms. As it was, the dry, tearless
agony at the heart continued ; she remained
silent for a while, with the same wild expression
as before upon her features.

The awful horror of such a story as this
is that it may be denied — it may be all false
and yet it stands there still before the
mind, making the whole of life one fearful
spectre."

The Count let go her hand and leaned

back in his chair, moving it as he did so an
inch or two away. He said, as it were, with
a touch of sternness or loftiness in his tone :

I begin to fear you have not been wise
enough to treat this story really with unbelief,
as you told me at first."

Salvio I" she cried out wildly, " have pity
on the terrible position I am in. Help me
to see that it is all a cruel falsehood; but how
can I help being in this state of agony ?
My father says he has brought the woman
with him here to London."

The Count was startled now in earnest,
and sprang up in his excitement with a half
articulate cry of anger. He advanced a step
or two and stood upon the hearthrug.

Who has dared to plot this against me V
he exclaimed.

Indignation at the idea of so elaborate an
attack would just as easily have explained
his words and action as the apprehension of
a serious menace under the other hypothesis.

11 What am I to do? — what am I to think?"
Terra moaned.

I have said that the woman is dead," the
Count repeated after an interval, in which

he stood with his clenched hand on the
mantelpiece, looking straight before him
with knitted brows. He turned towards
Terra again as he spoke, and faced her wild
stare resolutely.

Whoever has been brought here — if anyone
has really been brought — must therefore
be an impostor, bought by some enemy of
mine to play this part. I will fathom the
mystery. Your father, you tell me, has
made himself the ally of this plot. I will
see him. But Terra "

There was a kind of warning or menace in
the tone with which he pronounced her
name, and he paused as if hardly knowing
how to frame the thought in his mind into
words.

Well !"

My love for you seems destined to force
me into humiliation. I must know at least
that whatever experience of that kind I go
through, is compensated for, at all events,
by your perfect faith and trust,"

Have I failed in faith and trust ?" she
cried vehemently. " What would you have
me do \ Am I not to ask you for the truth

in face of such a dreadful story as I have
heard to-day."

You have questioned me, and I have
answered you; and now if you trust me you
will refuse to listen to another word on this
subject from anyone but myself. Is it not
clear that if / can see my way to treat this
story with contempt, and carry out our
marriage in spite of the worst that anyone
can say — of the most alarming appearances
that can be constructed to annoy and
obstruct me — you may be bold also to follow
my example ? That is what I want you todo,
my Terra. I will fight the calumnies
that may be brought to bear against me. 1
will shield you from all knowledge of them,
if you will only let yourself be shielded. I
will make your life a dream of bliss if you
will only be true to your love for me, and
listen to no one who would set } 7 ou against
me. Does not every act of my life show how
I am devoted to you \ But, Terra, there can
be no half-hearted devotion on either side in
such a love as ours. You should be to me as
I would be to you — faithful, even if this
false pretender, whoever it may be, really

were the curse of my boyhood come to life
again."

He approached her again as he was speaking,
and sat again in the chair near her, and
would have taken her hand again, but that
she had put both up to her face and leaned
back with her eyes covered. And yet the
wildness and excitement she had displayed at
the beginning of the interview were subdued
rather than inflamed by the new feeling
that was coming over her — a feeling of
benumbed hopelessness ; a miserable dawning
consciousness that all the bright prospects
of the future on w T which her spirits had
floated so buoyantly of late were fading
away — that the beginning of the end was
come — that, somehow, everything in which
she had believed and trusted was crumbling
beneath her. " If this thing were true !"
He could face that as a kind of supposition
which required her still to be faithful to
him, though marriage in such a case would
be a mockery. And this was the union
which, in its prospect, had so flattered her
pride.

You can talk about humiliations," she

said, "and yet think I ought to bear such
humiliation as that."

He sat upright in his chair, his expression
dark and reserved.

Not even to win back your love, that a
few words from your father seem to have
driven out of your heart, will I stoop to
prove myself free to marry you, as I have
told you I am. I may prove that to others,
if you are strong enough to marry me without
wanting such proof."

Oh, Salvio !" she moaned in a low voice,
with her hands still to her face, but turning
from him as she spoke and leaning her head
sideways on the back of the chair, "that I
have loved as I have loved ; I would have
married you if I had had to die the same
year for doing so."

She was addressing the ideal in her own
heart rather than the living man at her side.
He answered her :

Terra, there need be no thought of dying,
but only of living in perfect happiness with
me, if you are not mad. I tell you, you only
have to face a spectre that will shrink to
nothing if you confront it. Why cannot you

be strong to do that, if you love me as you
say ? You cannot doubt my love for you."

He tried to embrace and draw her to him,
but she shrank away and put aside his arms.
The act was, as it were, a fatal and decisive
turning-point.

Then you repulse me !" he said in a deep
tone that was almost fierce.

She turned round and looked at him across
the new and strange barrier she had thus
planted between them.

You tell me I must trust you blindly,"
she said, "and believe that this story is false,
though you yourself talk in this strange way
about it — as if it ought not to matter to me,
even if it were true. It is not possible forme
to feel such trust. Unless you proved tome
now that it was false, I should believe
that it was true."

He sat silent, with arms folded. There
suddenly came upon Terra a sense of shame
at the thought of sitting there discussing the
position with him any longer, and through
the intense misery which possessed her whole
being she felt the sting of wounded pride.
It nerved her for the practical exertion it was

needful now for her to make. To get away
was the problem before her — to get away
without breaking down. Not to break down
meant not to think, and she stood up with all
her life-dream in ruins around her and her
consciousness centred on one idea — to go to
her father at the hotel close by. She uttered
no word of farewell, but went straight out of
the room and upstairs to the room she was
occupying. It was all strewn with the signs
of the dressmaking preparations ; but the
women who had been in attendance on her
when her father came had gone into another
room, where their work had been chiefly
carried on. She hurriedly put on her hat
and mantle and went down, only listening fora
moment on the upper landing to be sure
that the stairs were clear. A footman who
saw her as she reached the hall level hurried
forward to open the door for her, looking
wonderingly at her as she passed out. She
merely shook her head as he asked if she
wanted the carriage, and went out into the
street. She knew her w T ay to the hotel her
father had mentioned, which was very near
at hand. As she walked on, anger gathered

at her heart, filling her veins for the moment
with the energy of passion. The Count's
love for her had been of the kind that was
merely a convertible term for his own desire.
He had condemned her with cold, cruel resolution
to the shame which an ultimate exposure
of the dark truth in the background of
his life would inevitably have brought upon
her. Certainly, he had had the courage to
face all risks himself; but these may have
been in some way guarded against by the
semblance of proof he might have had ready,
to make it seem that he had justly imagined
the woman dead. As for the state of the
facts, it was borne in now on Terra's mind
that things were as her father said, and she
no longer thought of the accusation as one
that was in any way in suspense.

She found her father at the hotel. He got
a private room, and asked her no questions
till they were secluded there. And it was
not necessary for him to ask her questions to
learn the broad results of the interview that
had just taken place. Indeed, she spoke first
when the door was closed — in a hard tone,
but making no pretence of disguising the

abject humiliation into which she had been
brought.

I have come away. What do you mean
to do with me, papa, since shame and misery
will not kill me outright V

Colonel Fildare's natural habit of mind,
fortified by military training, prompted him
to feel that in the fitness of things penalties
of some sort ought to follow the frightful insubordination
of which Terra had been guilty ;
but, at the same time, the crisis was still very
recent and the culprit a beautiful young
woman, not to mention her being his daughter.
It was not in him to be effusive under
the circumstances, but he had no inclination
to be severe.

I mean to take care of you, my dear, of
course. We must consider our future plans
at leisure. I have not put up here. I spent
last night at Sir James Margreave's. He
had very kindly come up to town to meet
me.

It w 7 as an aggravation of Terra's wretchedness
to find in this way that, with the best
intentions on her father's part, he was a little
puzzled what to do with her. It was not to

be assumed as a matter of course under the
circumstances that she was free to go back
to the Mai-greaves' house in Park Street —
which indeed was not mounted just then to
receive anyone, the servants being all in the
north. She could not help seeing that
already she must have given a great deal of
trouble in bringing Sir James hurriedly to
town. Colonel Fildare ruminated over the
situation without confiding to her the various
alternatives he was considering. Eventually
he rang the bell and ordered lunch, and a.
brougham for three o'clock. He had to go
back to Sir James Margreave's, he explained,
during the afternoon, and it would be better
for Terra to drive with him, rather than sit
brooding by herself. He could not go immediately,
however, for he expected a visitor
with whom he had made an appointment.
He would secure a room for Terra at the
hotel where they were for that night. She
was as well there as anywhere else, and the
following day they had better go out of town
for a bit, say to Bournemouth.

Terra was so bowled down and meek in her
misery that he was touched and ready to

forget the trouble and anxiety he had lately
been going through on her account, though
every now and then surges of resentment
assailed him as the further complications
of the moment presented themselves. He
was alive, however, to the uselessness of
attempting any consolation just then. All
he suggested in that direction was to the

DO

effect that it was a bad time for Terra to go
through, but that she had at all events
escaped results that might have been worse.
He asked her very few questions, and after
a while suggested that she could go and rest
for a little in her room.

"The visitor I expect," he said, "has
to do with your affair; but there is no
need for you to be worried about that
now."

Terra was willing enough to be alone, and
went to her room accordingly, to lie down on
the bed and hide her shame-stricken face in
the pillows.

Some time elapsed, and then a knock came
at her door, followed by her father s voice.
He came in at her bidding, after she had
got up from the bed and had taken refuge

vol. ii. 29

instinctively in the darkest corner of the
small room.

Perhaps it will be best for you to see
my visitor, Terra," the Colonel explained.
It is a lady whom you know."

It will be dreadful for me to see anyone."

The lady is Mrs. Malcolm, whom I understand
you have met at the Margreaves\ It
does not matter now how she comes to
have helped me in this delicate matter, but
she has helped me in an important way, by
looking after a certain person I found a very
awkward charge on my bands. Lady Margreave,
you know, knows her very intimately.
Let that suffice to explain how she comes to
be mixed up in this affair. She thinks you
must want a female friend at this crisis, and
wishes to see you. I hope you will let her
come."

Terra was not in a position to dispute
such wishes just then, and in this way Mrs.
Malcolm shortly replaced the Colonel, w 7 ho,
being thus relieved, arranged to go to Sir
James Margreave's by himself, and enjoined
the ladies to do justice by themselves to the
lunch he had ordered.

No more perfect nurse than Mrs. Malcolm,
for a patient in such mental trouble as that
from which Terra was suffering, could anywhere
have been found. Her grave, earnest sympathy
was as soothing as any such external
influence could be. Her natural unselfishness
made her not only gentle and forbearing,
but its subtle radiation exonerated her from
all suspicion of holding back unfavourable
criticism in the inner recesses of her heart.
Terra had been disinclined to say a word
about herself at first, or to talk of what had
happened ; but by slow degrees she was won
to be a shade less reticent. She reproached
herself bitterly and scornfully for the desperate
steps she had taken in defiance of her
friends' wishes, and the frightful trouble, annoyance,
and inconvenience she had inflicted
on everyone round her. This gave Mrs.
Malcolm the opportunity of making all this
seem light and unimportant. The great
thing was that she had been saved. The
people belonging to her, who loved her, would
be so happy in thinking of that, that they
would certainly not remember any personal
trouble they had contributed to saving her.

29—2

And at last, by making little of everything
connected with the matter, except the pain
in Terra's own heart, she achieved her great
triumph, and brought forth a flood of tears —
the first the girl had shed through all the
tearing excitement of the morning.

It was long after this event, and when
Terra had spoken to her freely, though incoherently
enough, of the horror through
which she had passed, and of the utter desolation
in which she was plunged, that Mrs,
Malcolm advanced her benevolent plans
another stage. The necessity of seeing about
toilet necessaries and clothes led up to this.

Terra was naturally sick with disgust at
the notion of having to concern herself with
such matters again, considering the very
different auspices under which she had been
doing the same thing for the previous two
days. And then Mrs. Malcolm asked why
she should worry herself about such things
at all. Let her go back that afternoon with
her — Mrs. Malcolm — to Richmond, and stay
there till she could get her own things from
Oatfielcl. She was quite alone — her brother
away — she had no other guest — and Terra

could be in total seclusion for a few clays, till
her father has devised some future plans. Of
course it was settled on those lines, to Colonel
Fildare's immense relief, when he came back
in the afternoon. And Terra spent that
evening, worn out with suffering, on the sofa,
in the drawing-room overlooking the river,
where Edith Kinseyle, a few weeks previously,
had lain in trance and given the
strange news that had provoked such momentous
consequences.

ENGAGED.

Edith Kinseyle had written to Mrs. Malcolm
pretty frequently during the interval
that had thus elapsed, and her letters, having
no character of special confidence, had been
sent on to Marston, who had also received
some on his own account from the same
source. Again at Deerbury Park, Edith had
been in the midst of social gaiety, but had
not said very much on this subject in her
letters, which had been chiefly concerned with
the other side of her double life, and occasionally
had been brightened by news of
fragmentary experiences associated with the
new phase of her clairvoyant gifts. She
wrote from time to time of having been visited
by the appearance she described as " Zephyr,"
and sometimes he had given her little bits of
information, unimportant in themselves, but

none the less interesting under the circumstances,
as to Marston's or Mrs. Malcolm's
doings at the moment, which she then
eagerly sought to verify. She complained to
Marston, however, that she did not seem to
be getting any further ; that it was very interesting,
and very wonderful to be in relation
this way with a superhuman being, but
after all, when the wonder and novelty wore
off, she did not see in what way she was
wiser or better for Zephyr's acquaintance,
highly as she prized it. Marston had counselled
her to demand of her spirit friend, when
next he came, that he should procure her
visions of the kind she used to have when in
trance, but without allowing herself to pass
into an unconscious state. In reply, she sent
word :

I got a visit again, last night, from my
inattentive and neglectful Master Zeplrp*,
and had my wits sufficiently about me, first
of all to scold him roundly for not having
been near me for a whole w T week, and, next, to
make the demand you suggested. He took
my scolding with the most disrespectful
laughter, and as for my request to be enabled

to see the Spirit Queen, he suggested that I
had better send first for Queen Victoria, and
see if she would come at my bidding. I said he
was very rude and unkind, and that I wanted
him to help me to be greater and wiser than
I was, and not merely to keep me amused.
It was very strange,, then, what happened.
He seemed to recede away to a great distance,
but yet to remain plainly visible to me, and
then, somehow, to shoot down upon me a ray
of something that seemed to pass over my
inner senses with a pleasurable, though intoxicating
sort of feeling. And then, for the
moment, he vanished away altogether. Then
immediately afterwards he was in the room
again as before. ' Don't you see,' he said,
1 it can't be managed at present. But I'll
show you some pictures.' And then he
began making dissolving views in the air
before me — or somehow, in my own fancy, I
seemed to see them in the air before me. I
saw myself, first of all — looking like a fly in
amber — inside a great block of glass or
crystal, and you were in the picture too, on
the outside of the glass prison, sweeping
your hands against it I did not seem to pay

any attention, but as the scene changed I saw
myself flying away like a sort of butterfly out
of a chrysalis, while you were lying pale and
motionless amongst broken fragments of the
glass, or ice, or whatever it was, far below.
It did not seem to disturb me in the least to
see you in this unhappy plight, though you
looked as if you might be dead. Then Mr.
Zephyr put the dramatis personae of his show
in quite another position, and I saw myself,
as it were, coming down a mountain path,
with cloud above, going onwards towards a
glorious and beautiful sunlight valley, while
you were standing far behind me, higher upon
the same path, separated from me by the
cloud, looking very dignified and imposing,
and holding what looked, at first, like a
portrait of me, but what I saw then was a
looking-glass which reflected me as I walked
below (in spite of the cloud). This picture
seemed to give me a most uncomfortable
feeling, though I had not been in the least
distressed by the other, in which you seemed
to be dead ! Whether Zephyr intended to
imply by all this that I was a perfectly heartless
and selfish person, or what, I don't know.

I suspect he meant something uncivil, for, as
I tell you, he was not at all in a respectful
mood."

Some time elapsed after this letter came
before any further despatches were received
from Deerbury Park, either at Richmond or
the Temple. Then Mrs. Malcolm had a letter
which came to her a few days after Terra
Fildare's arrival on the scene. She did not
send this letter on to Marston, but wrote to
him, suggesting that he should come over and
see her.

He went to Richmond in the course of the
afternoon, and found Mrs. Malcolm alone in
the drawing-room to receive him.

You are not looking well," Mrs. Malcolm
said directly after her greetings.

"I'm not feeling so especially ; but there's
nothing specially the matter."

I have had a letter from Edith," she went
on, " but I so much wanted to talk it over
with you that I asked you to come down
instead of sending it."

As she put the letter in his hands while
speaking, he did not ask, as her manner might
otherwise have suggested, whether there was

anything the matter, but read it without a
word.

Edith had written :

My dearest Marian,

I've been in a whirl, and I haven't
written to you for ever so long — a week or
ten days. My excuses are manifold and all-sufficient.
First of all, I can hardly get a
moment to myself, in view of the claims
made on my time by my future husband !
There is the great news launched. I have
been paired off by my destinies and my
friends with Colonel Danby, of whom I have
often spoken to you. Everyone congratulates
me, and tells me that a brilliant and
delightful future is in store for me. All
these good wishes will count for nothing
unless I have yours, so write to me at once,
and say everything you can imagine that is
sweet and exhilarating. But my affairs are
much more complicated than they will seem
to you so far. My friends have been making
frightful discoveries about me. I have got
nothing worth speaking of in the way of a
left lung. There was a great London, doctor

here, on a visit for a few days, who found me
out. I do not feel in the least little bit
unwell, but I am decided to be absolutely
unsound ; what you would call in a horse
hopelessly screwed.' Naturally you will
say, under these circumstances, Colonel
Danby ought to be let off his bargain ; but
he actually made the bargain with his eyes
open. The doctor says I most certainly
ought to go to Algiers for the winter, before
the weather should turn in the least cold ;
and it was this very remark that led to his
proposal that he should take me. So the
programme is that we are to be married
from here about the end of September, and
then fly to the south."

She went into some further detail, and
discussed the possibility that she might
somehow contrive to see Mrs. Malcolm
before " the fatal event." She might have
to come to town to do some shopping. And
she asked Mrs. Malcolm to give news of her
to Mr. Mars ton, for whom, for the moment,
she had no news " of more worthy matters,"
nothing occult having happened to her since
the night of the pictures.

Marston folded up the letter when he had
finished it, and sat turning it in his fingers,
without making any immediate comment.
Mrs. Malcolm, in the corner of the sofa, went
on with some knitting on which she was
employed. With her, knitting was, in a
measure, an act of consideration for the
people with her at any time. It seemed to
justify them for not speaking if they did not
want to, though it always subsided into her
lap, and was effaced by other interests, when
conversation began.

So," Marston said at last, " that was
inevitable, I suppose. But it has happened
soon — very soon."

The discovery about her lungs is what
we were warned about."

"We are so blind and helpless in this life,"
Marston dreamily said, after a further pause;
and those who feel blindest because they
realize what might be known, are the few
who know perhaps a little more than their
fellows."

What do you mean, more exactly ?"

I mean that it is so difficult to know
what the whole situation means — what is for

the best. Should one wish that she might
live — or, knowing what she really is, might
there not be the truest wisdom in holding
back that wish V

We could not contemplate her death
without great wretchedness."

u Language is weak. If I say, What does
one's self matter ? — I am pretending to arrogate
to myself an unselfishness superior to yours,
which would be absurd. You would sorrow
to lose her in a pure, unselfish w T ay. Forme
"

You would sorrow more."

I should sorrow more — well, yes, perhaps
I should ; but the sorrow then would hardly
add an appreciable pain to what I must feel
in any case. That is the normal condition
of things. Fate has put me in contact with
her just enough to make me love her, so that
the thought of her blots out every other idea
that life can suggest, but necessarily leaves
me there. And that being so, it is a kind of
painting on the lily in an inverted sort of
way, to say that anything else can cause me
sorrow 1 -. You love her with a perfectly beautiful
and unselfish feeling. And I — well, I

may most honestly say I do not love her ina
selfish way ; but I cannot help loving her
in a self-regarding way."

According to what was said, you might
have won her in spite of everything. I do
not understand that, Sidney. What did it
mean? These things are never said idly;
but I do not see how this could have been
averted by us, even if it had been right for
us to avert it. Can there be any further
complications pending ? Will this marriage,
do you think, be broken off?"

I should not think so."

But then "

"You will see, if you think," said Marston.
The time has gone by during which I
might, in the words spoken through her,
have chained her life to mine "

How ? You have had no opportunity.
But, ah ! do you mean "

I mean, of course, that, after all that
went on here, and after the extraordinarily
close mesmeric relation there was between
us, made a thousand-fold stronger than it
would have been otherwise by my intense
love for her, I could have made this" holding

up the letter, " utterly impossible long ago,
had I striven to do so. You will feel that
no mighty invocation of magic would have
been needed for me to have filled her with
such an intense desire to come back here,
that she would have come back before now ;
when everything else might have followed."

I see. And you would bring no influences
of that sort co bear upon her ?"

Assuredly not. Would it not have been
base to do so ? — no matter how I might
have worshipped her, — if it had been conceivable
that she could have made such a
sacrifice."

"How little the world at large understands
the ebb and flow of events."

"It has been hard, sometimes," Marston
said, " not to long for her in the way that
would have been an active force."

Certainly I do not think you need blame
your feeling for her as selfish."

That's what I say ; but it's complicated.
I knew something of this sort must come ; but
it has come soon. I thought we might have
had her as she was for a little longer ; and
now there is the dreadful complication about

her health — her life. What ought we to
wish for — for her sake ? And we are so
blind."

There is not much responsibility involved
in wishing," Mrs. Malcolm said. " So, at all
events, I wish she may recover and get
strong. If that is possible, it is the plain
law of life that we should keep people living
with us as long as we can. Besides, in the
chances of life, while she lives, we may
always see something of her from time to
time."

Mars ton still pondered on the ideas in his
mind, and merely suggested, in reply to the
last sentence :

Unless we escape ourselves."

Don't be morbid."

How strong the influence of habit is
even on your strong nature, Marian. Provided
I do not make the mistake of trying a«
short cut, by which I should probably lose
my way, how can anything be less morbid,
how can anything be more rational and
cheerful, than for a man who cannot see his
way to being happy in this life, to look forward
eagerly to the next, and speak of such

vol. ii. 30

eagerness openly and frankly ? If we were
honest in our professed beliefs, should not
we say sometimes to one another, as we
meet : ' I'm very sorry to see you. I hoped,
for your sake, you were dead !' "

That seems intellectually true ; but one's
instinct against it may be born of a higher
intuition."

Their talk wandered off for awhile into
problems of this nature, and then came back
to practicalities in regard to Miss Fildare,
whose final adventures Mrs. Malcolm recounted
; though she had told Marston
before, by letter, of her break off with the
Count, and her arrival in Richmond. Of
course, both Mrs. Malcolm and, through
her, Marston had been apprised by Ferrars,
during his operations on the Continent, of
the various circumstances connected with his
enterprise — of the difficulties he had found
in his way, to begin with, overcome in the
end by money and resolution ; of his journey
to Brindisi, the only place at which he could
be sure of intercepting Colonel Fildare; and
finally of his return to the Hague, leaving
the woman he had brought from Spain in

the Colonel's care. Mrs. Malcolm had been
instructed to meet the Colonel on his arrival,
and provide for the accommodation of the
important witness. Knowing the very headstrong
character of his daughter, and
over-estimating, as events turned out, the
danger that she might simply refuse to listen
to an extravagant story, unsupported by
adequate proof, the Colonel had conceived it
all-important to keep the heroine from Seville
within easy reach.

Terra herself did not come down while
Marston remained with Mrs. Malcolm.

I might as well merely have sent you
the letter, after all, perhaps," she said at last,
when he was going. " There seems nothing
for us to do in the matter. I was wrong,
perhaps, to give you the trouble of coming
for nothing."

Your perfect sympathy made you wish
to be present when I got this news ; and in
sending for me you did a kindness, as you
always do."

I wanted your advice, however. I
should like to see her again, of course, if she
comes to London, as she says. But whether

30—2

to press her to come here again or not, supposing
she is able, I could not determine."

Marston thought for awhile, and then :

I think it would be very desirable to ask
her here again. Physically, I can do her
good, I know. I could see her in peace fora
little time nowhere so conveniently as
here."

Mrs. Malcolm said she would try ; and
then, as the 7 " were parting, said she was
sorry to see him looking so wretchedly ill.

I am afraid that all you have heard today
will not serve to revive you."

You will cling to your theory that physical
life is a blessing V he said, with a
smile.

I am quite sure it is a duty we owe one
another to preserve it for each other, at any
rate ; and if you let yourself run down too
much, you will give me the trouble of coming
up to the Temple to nurse you."

I shall not forget what you say. Perhaps
it is a duty we owe one another. But
you shall not be taxed in even your overflowing
kindness to nurse me. That will not
be necessary, you will find."

He spoke almost as if there were some
significance in his words beyond their literal
meaning ; but at the time she did not realize
what this might be.

Letters of congratulation went to Edith by
that evening's post both from Mrs. Malcolm
and from Marston. He wrote to her cheerfully
about her health. He felt sure, he
represented, that it was by virtue of a sound
instinct or " intuition " of her own that she
herself was so cheerful on that subject. Her
organism was probably of a kind that would
disconcert the experience of a doctor used
only to the ordinary phenomena of physical
life. She might be flying, so to speak, on a
crippled wing, but might have so strong a
natural affinity with the upper regions of the
air as to be secure from all danger of falling.

That is perhaps a clumsy metaphor'' the
letter went on, ' ; and no illustration I can
think of just now exactly fits the case, but
the sources of your vitality are not the same
as those which feed the life of more commonplace
people — of that you may, if you please,
safely trust me to know more than I can
quite fully explain. Assuming, therefore,

that you are in no peril, even by reason of
the great doctor's discoveries in the region of
your left lung, you will permit me, I hope,
to offer you all the best wishes at this crisis
of your life that can be framed by the truest
and deepest imaginable friendship. I will
not disguise from you the disappointment I
feel at the thought that I am not likely now
to have any further opportunity of watching
the development of your higher attributes.
I have never disguised from you the reverence
and enthusiasm on my part which the contemplation
of them has excited, but you will
realize without an effort that if this new
relationship that you have entered into is to
be for your happiness there can be no feeling
concerning it in the breast of so true a friend
as I humbly claim to be, which is worth talking
about in presence of the dominant feeling
that of gladness with you for your sake.
Life is a great mystery, even for those of us
who fancy we know a little more about it
than the majority of mankind. As we come
to comprehend something about the higher
complexities of our nature, we can never look
at even the lower events of physical existence

without some reference to these. But it is
so difficult to fit all considerations perceptible
from this higher point of view properly into
their places. As the circle of knowledge
widens the horizon of ignorance expands, for
there is infinity in all directions, and only the
most narrow-minded observer thinks he can
explain the whole. The upshot of which is,
that though I look upon you as quite fit. so
to speak, for what we call heaven, and though
I certainly think heaven a better place of
residence than earth, my philosophy comes
to an abrupt end in presence of the simple
earthly fact of your engagement, and I can
only retire back into my own den with my
futile conjurations and studies, and trust in
the hallowed formula of the fairy stories,
that you may live happily ever after."

It remained uncertain for a week or two
longer whether Edith would be able to pay
Mrs. Malcolm another visit before her marriage,
and in the interim Terra Fildare had
tided over the most difficult time connected
with her trouble, not merely in so far as its
most emotional aspect was concerned, but in
regard to the petty embarrassments about

her wardrobe and personal properties generally.
Her complete seclusion at Richmond
enabled her to carry on for a few days with
things lent her by Mrs. Malcolm, and then
her own luggage, packed under the direction
of Lady Margreave, was sent on from Oat-field.
Little or nothing was said during her
stay at Richmond concerning George Ferrars
Mrs. Malcolm faithfully reported all that had
transpired to the Hague, and did not try to
mould her brother's destiny. Obviously it
would be premature to raise any question of
that sort now, and Mrs. Malcolm was content
with having done the right and sees
o

viceable thing at the right time, leaving
subsequent events to the guidance of the
persons chiefly concerned. Terra was meanwhile
sincerely grateful, as also was the
Colonel her father, who had been spared the
trying duty of wearing down the first sharp
edge of his daughter's grief. He had written
to Mrs. Malcolm proposing to come to town
he had returned to Hatfield in the first
instance with Sir James Margreave — and
resume possession of Terra, with a view of
taking her abroad for a continental tour ; but

Mrs. Malcolm bad pressed her to stay, and
her own inclinations were strongly in favour
of that arrangement. Mrs. Malcolm's soothing
and unobtrusive sympathy and companionship
were far more acceptable to her just then
than her father's company, and the Colonel,
for his part, had been easily persuaded that it
would be best for his daughter to stay on
quietly where she was, rather than undertake
a tour she could hardly, under the circumstances,
be expected to enjoy. So her Richmond
visit was indefinitely prolonged. At
last a little opening appeared in the clouds,
which seemed at one time to bar out all
prospect of a visit from Edith. It was considered
necessary by her friends that the best
medical skill available in London must pronounce
upon her case before the arrangements
for the winter were definitely selected among
the various possibilities suggested by an
anxious bridegroom with an ample purse.
She was to be brought up to town, she wrote,
under befitting chaperonage, and lodged for a
day or two at Coleridge's — or rather, that had
been the idea at first, the Miltenhams' townhouse
at that season of the year being very

much dismounted; but Edith had "moved
for leave to bring in an amendment," as she
expressed the matter in her explanatory note,
rather mixing up some of the parliamentary
talk she heard going on around her. She had
suggested that she would bid adieu to her
girlhood by paying a short visit to her friend
of friends, Mrs. Malcolm, and with the advantages
belonging to her position had carried
her point. " The opposition saw I really
meant it," she wrote, " and discreetly gave
way."

So one day in the early part of September
it came to pass that, having been duly surveyed
by her battery of doctors at Brook
Street, she was delivered over with much
ceremony, and gallant protestations from
Colonel Danby concerning the magnitude
of the trust, to the custody of Mrs. Malcolm,
who came up to town to meet her. Her
leave of absence was to cover three days.
Colonel Danby had a short conversation with
Mrs. Malcolm concerning her apart from the
others who were present.

The verdict about Miss Kinseyle," he
said, " seems to be contradictory in some

respects. There is a great deal of organic
disorder, but a great reserve of general
strength in her constitution. From a mere
examination of her lungs the doctors would
have expected her to have been much less
healthy and vigorous generally than she
seems. The inference would be that the
organic attack, though no attention has been
paid to it hitherto, has been defeated by
Nature, and does not threaten further development.
But under the circumstances,
it is needless to say that the utmost possible
care must be taken to guard our patient from
its renewal."

Edith herself laughed and joked with Mrs.
Malcolm on their way down to Richmond
about the solemnity with which she had been
inspected. She did not feel ill in any w T ay whatever
— had never felt better or stronger than
during the last few w T weeks, and the new theory
that she was a very fragile invalid, requiring
to be surrounded with elaborate precautions,
seemed merely part of the fuss incidental to
her engagement. It gave Colonel Danby a
great deal of innocent amusement to lay out
a plan of campaign against the unfelt foe

supposed to be conspiring against her welfare.
The Riviera was their first line of defence, and
Algiers their citadel. They were to keep
several steamboats ready saddled at Nice, and
watch their enemy through stethoscope. At
the first cough they would slip across the
Mediterranean, and a serious cold would involve
a strategic movement on Madeira.
She was in mortal terror lest some medical
authority should declare a hearty laugh too
great a strain on her system, in which case
she would be condemned to read sermons and
serious poetry for the whole of the honeymoon.
Certainly it was immensely devoted
of Colonel Danby to make her health in this
way his main preoccupation, but if she was
obliged to pose as an invalid for the whole
winter, she would have to try a low diet, and
be bled at intervals to cultivate an appearance
befitting the part.

THE MIST CLEARING.

Mrs. Malcolm had already explained by
letter the circumstances under which Terra
Fildare was then staying with her. They
would be a square party for dinner that evening,
she now told Edith, for she had laid on
Sidney Marston for the service of any
psychic emergencies that might arise during
Edith's short stay. When he came, towards
dinner-time, Edith greeted him with a sympathetic
smile, and said it was delightful to be
all three "as they were" again. The excitement
of the moment obliterated all traces of
the worn and weary look that Mrs. Malcolm
had taxed him with at their last interview.

And you are so little changed to look
at," he said to Edith, " that it seems difficult
to realize the great change that has really
taken place."

How did you expect me to be transmuted
% Ought I to show myself crushed
by the burden of care so soon ? At all events
I have come down to Richmond to throw it
off for three days."

Marston was constrained and awkwardly
silent at first. Mrs. Malcolm focussed their
talk after a little while on the old topics that
used to engage them formerly.

I have been out of your world down
here' she explained, in reference to some
incidents connected with people Edith thought
she knew, to which allusion had been made,
and have been quite content with Terra's
companionship. Besides, I have been most
interested, — in getting your letters, — in what
you have told me of your psychic adventures."


I haven't been having any lately. Zephyr
has been a faithless friend, and has
altogether deserted me. I am beginning to
think he is a poor substitute for my old
trances — with Mr. Marston at hand to make
me remember all the nicest parts. I think
we must celebrate this happy reunion by
having some more. But Miss Fildare will

be wondering what on earth I am talking
about."

Not at all' said Mrs. Malcolm. " I
have told her quite enough of what used to
go on here to prepare her for anything that
may take place."

I had no idea that you were so — wonderful
a person when we were together at the
Margreaves'," Terra said.

Oh, please don't look upon me as anything
of the kind. Mr. Marston is the
magician, and I am only a sort of instrument
for him to play upon."

History repeats itself," said Marston,
replying to Edith's last remarks, " according
to the current phrase, but not in the narrower
cycle of private lives, I fear."

I do not seem as if we had ever left off
from the point of view of this my own old
sofa corner. Marian, I am glad you are not
given to hunting your furniture about the
room. I would never have forgiven you if
this sofa had not been exactly where I have
been used to find it."

I wonder if its magic still survives," said
Mrs. Malcolm. " How do you think, Sidney?"

"I should think Miss Kinseyle is about
as likely to have lost her psychic attributes
as Joachim to have forgotten the violin in the
last few weeks."

Or Mr. Marston to have lost the art of
paying compliments," added the young lady
herself. " But that habit is too deeply engrained
to serve as an example for me. Perhaps
I have merged myself altogether in my
commonplace aspect since we last met. Perhaps,
as Mrs. Graham Lee used to put it —
don't you remember ? — I shouldn't mesmerise
now, even if I were tried."

"I think," said Mrs. Malcolm, "that the
temptation to try will get very serious after
dinner."

Marston did not warmly endorse the proposal
; but as he had never been in the habit
of attempting to impress his wishes on their
arrangements in the former time — content to
direct the actual course of the mesmeric processes
when these had been decided on or
demanded by the ladies — his passivity in the
matter now did not strike them as remarkable.
They went in shortly afterwards to
dinner, and the little ceremony passed over

without any special incident. Terra, indeed,
had been troubled with an uncomfortable feeling
— as the conversation reverted from time
to time to the psychic mysteries with which
she was quite unfamiliar — to the effect that
perhaps she would be in the way, and had
indicated a readiness to take herself off into
privacy when dinner should be over ; but
Mrs. Malcolm had declared this wholly unnecessary.


"I do not treat you ceremoniously, my
dear, by interrupting our talk to try and
explain things to you. But do you, on the
other hand, spare us the feeling of being
rude by remaining quite at ease yourself. I
am specially pleased to have you here while
Edith is with us."

In the drawing-room afterwards she again
reverted to the idea which possessed her
imagination.

■ Well, what are we going to do this evening
\ It is very nice to have you here, Edith,
and chatter idly as we have been doing, but
the combination seems to suggest something
more."

VOL. II. 31

What does the master of the ceremonies
say V inquired Edith,

He is the servant of the ceremonies, if
you please."

"But why are you not eager to renew our
old proceedings, Sidney, if you are really
disinclined, as it seems to me V

"Disinclined is certainly not the right
word. It is more fascinating to me than I can
say to watch Miss Kinseyle's psychic flights
at any time, and it would be rather more so
than usual to-night. I merely wonder if you
recollect that the counsels given through her
in her last trance were against repeating the
process in the old way."

"I should think," Edith said, "that the
orders were not intended to operate for ever.
There has been a long interval."

It was left to your discretion, if I
remember rightly," said Mrs. Malcolm.
Was not that so ?"

Yes ; I think it was so left, and that is
what makes me so cautious. I can't see my
way through it quite. I can't see any reason
why it could possibly do harm, but there
must have been some reason in the warning."

u Suppose we try," Edith suggested, " and
then if I go black in the face, or begin to
scream, you can call me back. I can't feel
frightened of anything in this dear old sofa
corner, and with you at hand to take care of
me.

Then let us try," Marston said; " perhaps
it is only a superstitious reverence I entertain
for a warning your lips have spoken. It maybe
that your impulse and Mrs. Malcolm's are
better entitled to be trusted than mine. Besides,
I am not sure but that my impulse is
in the same direction now."

There were no preparations needed beyond
the simple movement of his chair a pace or
two forward, but a great deal seemed embodied
in the fact that Edith should again
put her hands in his, going back across the
memories of the painful scene they had passed
through in that room on the last evening of
her former visit, to the earlier time of their
first acquaintance. There was no mystery
between them now. The dark horror in his
life had been disclosed and shuddered over,
and a little interval had smoothed down the
storm of emotions thus evoked. She knew

now all that there was to know about him,
and resumed their sympathetic intimacy on
its old footing. And yet, as he took her
hands, he noticed some costly rings upon
them that had not been there before, and the
meaning of the shining symbols stung through
and through his imagination as it were, and
left a physical sensation in the track of their
rays. He said no word about them, and did
not even look at them, but in a little while she
drew away her hands and took off the rings.

Take care of them for me, Marian. They
seem to me somehow in the way. That will
be better," as she restored her hands to Marston's
keeping, and looked up in his face with
a smile.

Is it fancy, I wonder," she said soon
afterwards, " or do I see a kind of cloudy
light floating about between us V

I suppose you see something. Could you
lower the light, Mrs. Malcolm 1 She might
make out more clearly then."

Some candles that stood upon the mantelpiece
had been already blown out so that
they might not glare in Edith's eyes, but a
lamp was burning on a table behind her.

Mrs. Malcolm went to this, turned it down
as low as it would go without being quite
extinguished, and put a shade over it.

Oh yes !" Edith cried, " I do see a light.
Don't you, Marian V

Mrs. Malcolm saw nothing distinctly.
Marston, appealed to in turn, said he did not
see, but felt an influence which might be
what Miss Kinseyle saw.

It seems to flow from your side and
move round towards me in eddies. And
there is light round your hands, too ! Hold
away your hand for a moment. Yes, like
that," as he held it pointing towards her.
There is light coming from the tips of the
ringers."

As her eyes grew more accustomed to the
darkness she was able to observe these effects
more distinctly, and described the colour of
the light she saw as a purplish-blue. Then,
by her wish, Marston stood up, and moved a
little away from her.

"That's very curious," she said. " I can
still see the light, and it still flows from you
to me, but as you draw away the cloud grows
more like a current or band. Get away now

into quite the far corner of the room. There,
that is still just as plain as ever."

I dare say I can tell you' when it looks
most distinct to you, 3 ' Marston said, as he
leaned against the wall at the side of the
room farthest from her sofa. " Wait a few
moments. . . . Now !"

Yes ; I distinctly saw the light brighten.
A sort of pulsation passed through it."

That is the mesmeric, or magnetic force,
no doubt, which you, as a sensitive, are
conscious of. I know when it goes out
towards you by my own sensations."

I'm beginning to understand things," she
said dreamily, in the influence of that light.
Come back again now."

She remained thoughtful and quiet as he
sat down again beside her.

You need not take any trouble in the
matter. You are magnetising me all the
time."

I know."

Do my forehead a little, though ; perhaps
it will make me see clearer."

Marston laid his hands on her head, and
made a few passes of the kind that had

generally before sent her off to sleep. And,
indeed, this time again it seemed as if the
usual effect had been produced. She lay with
her head back upon the pillows for a minute
or so in silence, sighed a little, and then
said :

It's draining your life away."

What then ?" said Marston.

That has been going on some time. You
have been forcing the current to flow — it is
not merely that I have been absorbing it.
That is why I have been feeling so strong and
well. I ought to have been nearly dead by
this time, if I had been left to myself."

Marston made no comments on these
calmly uttered assertions, which were put
forward in a subdued voice, sentence by sentence,
and slowly. Presently Edith resumed
:

I can see the feeling that has governed
you. You have not been trying to draw me
towards you. You have not wanted any
reward, but you have so arranged things that
your vital strength is all draining away, to
make me strong at your cost."

<l And is not that a very good arrangement

? I do not want strength, and you
do."

I cannot accept the sacrifice — knowing-all
it means."

Then let what you are saying be wiped
off your physical memory, so that you will
not recollect it when you wake."

She made no direct reply to, or acknowledgment
of, this injunction.

It is not of any permanent use, after
all," she went on. " This influence is preventing
the effect of my illness from showing
itself; but the causes are going on all the
while. The doctors are mistaken in thinking
they have been stopped. It will require a
stronger influence than anything you have
yet been able to do to save my lungs
altogether from getting worse."

A stronger influence, you mean, than
anything I have been able to do yet ; but it
might be possible for me to accomplish what
is needed — by a final effort."

She remained silent for a little while, and
then, still speaking in the same calm and unimpassioned
tone as before, answered :

Yes ; I must answer you truly. You

have penetrated some great mysteries, and
learned to understand some part of the
power controlled by self-sacrificing love.
But you do not know all that your own project
will accomplish. You cannot know all
the risks."

Are not we bound to do all we can for
one another ?"

"Not bound to do what you want to do
for me."

If not bound, at least permitted V

44 It is never right to waste power obtained
at such a sacrifice. It may be that the
knowledge I have acquired to-night as to the
nature of the sacrifice you are trying to
make for me will defeat your own intention.
Already that purpose, as far as you have
already carried it, has been imperilled. It
was dangerous to let me learn so much."

Mars ton looked towards Mrs. Malcolm,
though the darkness was too nearly complete
to let them see each other's faces.

This was the meaning of the warning
against another trance," he said to her in a
low voice.

"Try and turn her on to something else."

There is something else," Edith said,
answering the suggestion herself, " going on
all the while. Don't you see it, Marian V

Hitherto in her trances she had been
apparently unconscious of any voice but
Marston's. Her response, in this way, to
Mrs. Malcolm's remark was a novelty.

I only feel an emotion, dear. My Guardian's
magnetism is all about us."

Come and take my hand, and look
straight before you with me."

Mrs. Malcolm came to the back of the
sofa, and, kneeling there with her arms on
the low back, took one of Edith's hands.
After a time she gave a low murmur as of
admiration and awe.

"Yes; I can see her faintly through the
darkness, as though at a great distance."

She says, so kindly and sweetly, that she
is not so far from us as we are from her.
That sounds a paradox ; but she means that
we do not yet realize how near she is to us,
so she seems far to our eyes."

Does she seem far off to you also ?"

Yes ; not as I have seen her before,
when my body has been completely entranced.

But then I was drawn to her by
her power. It is different now. But it only
makes me wish to feel as I used to with her.
I do not see and feel to-night as I have done
before ; but I understand things better. Oh,
everything else does seem so poor and
worthless, compared to the glory and joy of
being away there with her in the state she is
in. Nobody would live in the body, if they
knew what it was to live in the world of
spirit. And yet it is not merely by quitting
the body that we can reach the world of
spirit. People who cling to physical life do
so with wisdom very often ; though they do
not know why they are wise. They would
be very foolish if what they believe was
really as they believe it. One must never
hasten the change'

Not even for you, then," said Marston,
(1 would it be wise to hasten the change."

Certainly it would not be wise to hasten
the change. Why do you ask me questions
I am bound to answer, but also bound to
leave only half answered V

I must ask you what arises in my heart
to ask you. I am willing to listen to anything

you have to say to me beyond the
direct answer."

Why are you talking with her in riddles?"
said Mrs. Malcolm. " You seem to understand
each other, but I cannot follow
you."

"Do you ask me questions, Marian,"
Edith said in reply, "and I shall perhaps be
able to answer more plainly to-night than
usual. But ask me about the things of the
spirit life. It seems a kind of blasphemy
to talk of anything else when her influence is
upon me."

But there is one thing I want to know,
that it cannot be wrong to be anxious about.
Are we going to lose you, dear, or to keep
you with us ?"

You will never lose me, Marian. We
shall be more closely united hereafter than
we ever have been, or can be, amid the barriers
and changes of life in the body."

11 That does not seem to answer what I
was anxious about for the moment. I can't
help thinking selfishly of the present, though
I would be reconciled even to losing you, if
you say distinctly it is best for you."

u Wait and see. I cannot tell you which
is best now."

The strange conversation was prolonged
for a considerable time, Mrs. Malcolm obeying
the injunction to press no further for
definite information about Edith's prospects
of life, and asking questions relating to her
own past experiences in relation with the
Spirit Edith described herself as interpreting.
When at last Mrs. Malcolm, speaking to
Marston, asked if he did not think Edith
ought to be brought back to consciousness,
they were made fully aware of the fact
■ — already suspected from the course the
proceedings had taken — that this time
she had never properly lost consciousness.


You need not make any efforts to bring
me back," Edith said. " I have never been
away. I know this time all that has taken
place."

You remember all your talk with Mrs.
Malcolm, and how it began V asked Marston.


"And also my talk with you, which came
first. You can only keep away from my

physical recollection what has never been
established there."

Marston was silent. She spoke in a significant
tone, but very gently and sympathetically.


You might turn the lamp up a very
little," she went on ; " and then by degrees I
shall feel as usual again. I am rather languid
at present."

They did as she suggested, and discussed
the new phase on which her faculties had
thus entered, at length, in all the bearings
it suggested. Then, as their eyes grew used
to the light, the room was restored to its
ordinary condition.

All the evening, however, Edith remained
in a rather dazed and dreamy condition, and
spoke of feeling weak and exhausted, as she
had never felt before after one of her
trances.

I am not free from self-reproach in all
this," Marston said. " I fear I ought never
to have agreed to attempt another trance.
It seems almost to have done you harm, and
perhaps — has worried you needlessly with
some fancies."

I do not regret what has happened," said
Edith. " Not at all. It has been wonderfully
instructive. Perhaps a little sobering
for the moment, it is true. That may be all
for the best. Meanwhile, self-reproach under
the circumstances does not seem to me quite
the right feeling for you to be troubled
with."

It was not till after Marston had gone
that Terra Fildare joined again in the conversation.


How good you have been, dear," Mrs.
Malcolm said to her, "to sit quiet and self-effaced
the whole evening. So much that
we have been talking about must have
seemed quite unmeaning to you."

I have not understood it," Terra said ;
but that only makes it stranger that I
should have been so impressed."

How have } r ou been impressed V

I can't describe. Awestricken, somehow.
It seemed so thrilling that you and
Miss Kinseyle should have been seeing
something that I could not see. But it was
not that only — but perhaps I ought not to
ask questions."

Ask any questions you like."

u What was it Mr. Marston had been
doing ? — something that Miss Kinseyle
seemed to find out about while she was
talking."

After a short pause, Mrs. Malcolm answered
:

That would be for Edith to say, if she
likes."

He has been suffering himself," Edith
said slowly, " to an extent I never dreamed
of before, in the effort to make me well."

That was what I vaguely made out ; but
I was not sure. And without even intending
that you should know V

Yes; that is what makes the self-sacrifice
so very complete."

Self-sacrifice ! What an extraordinary
thing it is, when you come to think of it,"
Terra observed reflectively.

It is unusual," said Mrs. Malcolm, "but
happily not quite impossible."

THE SACRIFICE ACCOMPLISHED.

The next day did not work itself out quite
in accordance with the intentions the little
party at Richmond had formed. Marston,
to begin with, did not come down in the
afternoon, as had been proposed. He telegraphed
to Mrs. Malcolm in the morning to
say he was not very well, and a great deal
occupied, so that he could not join them for
lunch — nor, perhaps, even at dinner ; but he
would certainly appear in the course of the
evening".

Mrs. Malcolm was puzzled, the notion of
Marston being kept away from Edith, when
he had the option of being in her company,
by any occupation she could think of, seeming
absurd. But Edith's condition gave her
concern also. The girl seemed somehow
dispossessed of the bounding good spirits

vol. II. 32

that she generally enjoyed. Tn the morning
she slept long and heavily. She declared
herself still tired when Mrs. Malcolm went
to her room, and accepted the offer of breakfast
in bed. Not that she was eager for the
breakfast — she was simply disinclined to
leave her bed. Mrs. Malcolm sat with her,
and talked and did knitting ; and Edith read
for a time, and only got up in the middle of
the day. There was nothing the matter
with her, she protested ; she was merely
dominated by the sentiment of the previous
evening.

All the same," Mrs. Malcolm argued,
if Colonel Danby saw you this morning, he
would have a poor idea of me as a nurse for
you."

I dare say. People are so strangely
mistaken about things they think they understand
very often. I am languid to-day, and
more face to face with the fact that I am ill
than I have ever been before. And yet, if
I were snatched away from Richmond just
now, I should disappoint some hopes, I am
quite sure ; and should probably never be
well enough to be manoeuvred about the

south of Europe in the way Colonel Danby
proposes."

You talk with as much confidence, my
dear, as if you were in your clairvoyant
state."

The two states are coming together,
Marian ; and it is a very strange experience.
But don't be alarmed about me. Nothing
could be so good for me, in regard to health
even, as being down here, though I don't
look nourishing to-day ; and you don't want
to be told, I'm sure, that it is best for me in
every other way."

She got up in the middle of the day, and
sat in the garden for a time, and then did a
little piano-playing, and so on, whiling aw r ay
a very quiet day. During intervals, w T hile
they were alone together, she and Mrs.
Malcolm left nothing that concerned her, in
the current crisis of her life, talked of.
She would not dilate at any great length,
however, on her engagement, though she did
not show any inclination to shirk the topic.
The thing explained itself, and there w r as no
intricacy of any interesting kind to be disclosed
concerning its origin. As to Sidney

32—2

Marston, and his sad position in the world,
they also talked at length.

a Is there no hope, don't you think," Edith
asked, " that he will get a little more cheerful
and interested in life after a time T

Mrs. Malcolm could hardly explain to
Edith all the grounds she had for believing
this impossible ; but, attributing the hopelessness
of the case altogether to the
circumstances which had crushed him, she
nevertheless admitted frankly and fully that
the case was hopeless.

He sometimes has talked," she said, " ina
way that has frightened me ; for I do not
think that anyone has a right to put a violent
end to life, however wearisome it may be.
But I must say — though I would not say
this to him — that, if poor Sidney could be
kindly translated by a higher power to another
sphere of existence, I should mourn
personally, for I have a very deep friendship
for him ; but not for his sake."

It seems to shock me — the idea," Edith
said, after a long, reflective pause ; " death is
so strange a metamorphosis. I suppose it
ought to seem more shocking for me to contemplate

the idea in my own case. It would
disappoint so many people, now, if I were to
die. And, as you say, it might be a release
for Mr. Marston, while I ought to enjoy
life if anybody can ; and yet "

She did not finish the sentence at once,
but went on presently, in a dreamy voice :

From what you say, I suppose, if some
higher power should say either I or Mr.
Marston had to die, you would choose me to
live V

It's a comfortless kind of fancy for you
to have, but — of course I should."

And yet it would be odious and horrible
for me to make that choice."

My dear, the idea is — rather repulsive,
as you say. People in general could hardly
realize the idea of choosing to live at somebody
else's expense, in that way, except as a
selfish choice. But, if one can imagine that
you had the power of choosing, it would
certainly be a poor kindness to Sidney to
choose that he should live, and see you die."

The idea was not developed any further,
and the day passed — not exactly in sadness,
but as though clouded by some solemnity,

and quite without any of the bright sallies of
high spirits which generally threw a moral
sunshine on any company to which Edith
belonged.

Dear Marian," said Edith, after they had
gone through the brief and simple ceremony
of dinner, and were re-established in the
drawing-room ; " I think it would be best, if
you do not mind, that you should leave me
to speak to Mr. Mars ton by myself for a
time to-night. I know he will wish this ;
and I shall have some things to say to him,
which you will know all about, no doubt,
very soon, but which I ought to say to him
in the first instance, with no one — not even
your dear self — by to hear."

Very well, clear. I am sure your impulses
are entirely to be trusted."

I knew you would not mind."

"Mind! As if I could have had so petty
a thought ! Terra and I will settle ourselves
in the dining-room."

When, a little later, they heard a ring at
the outer door, which they knew to mean
Marston's arrival, Mrs. Malcolm was gathering
up her work-things to go away in advance

of his coming; but Edith objected to this,
and said there could be no such, hurry.

Let us wait and have some general talk
first. We shall see. Perhaps I may be
mistaken."

You are getting beyond the liability of
being mistaken in your intuitions, I think."

Marston was paler than usual, and evidently
under the same kind of serious impression
that had overruled Edith herself
during the day ; though his dark eyes seemed
to gleam with more intensity than ever, and
his manner to show a suppressed excitement.


"Are you better than in the morning?"
Mrs. Malcolm asked. " I was afraid at first
you were seriously ill, to be kept from
coming to us as intended."

My coming was very certain in the long
run, though it was a little delayed."

Perhaps it was best for Edith to have a
perfectly quiet and restful afternoon. She
has not been at all herself to-day."

I suppose last night left its effects upon
her ; but I trust they' will be only transitory.
I am not anxious."

How dreadfully unfeeling," Edith said
with a touch of her usual gaiety, but a look
that guarded the words from being: taken too
literally. "At Deerbury I could not cough
without being gazed at with fearful solicitude;
and if I had caught a cold the household
would have trembled."

11 1 think all the better of Deerbury. From
that point of view anxiety is most reasonable."


"You have been getting further and
further from the common stand-point of
late, it seems to me," said Mrs. Malcolm.
Have you been making any special progress,
Sidney, in mysterious knowledge ?"

It is against all recognised rules and
regulations for people who are studying mysterious
knowledge at all to boast of their
progress. Still, for once I may give myself
a dispensation. I have been making progress
in some directions. I have concentrated
my efforts more on learning certain things,
with a definite purpose in view, and have
succeeded in proportion to my concentration."

I don't think you look as if success had
agreed with you."

Knowledge is worth more than physical
vigour ; and no one should understand that
better than you."

That is quite true ; but so few people are
weaned from the things of this world sufficiently
to realize it."

Scarcely anyone. Not I, for one, though
I can state the theory in words."

Edith was listening silently, looking at him
with a fixed gaze that seemed to see more
than the external appearance of things. Mrs.
Malcolm went on with the dialogue :

What paradox do you mean by that ? I
should say you were as little wedded to the
things of this world as a human being can
be, to live at all."

One may care not at all for the hundred-anemone
pursuits and pleasures that most
people are absorbed by, and yet not be
weaned from this life. I can imagine conditions
under which I should revel in it and
enjoy it intensely. While that consciousness
lurks in the background, it is a spurious kind
of spirituality that is achieved by merely
growing indifferent to life as it is."

w Sometimes I distrust even your metaphysics,

when you get morose and revile
your own personality."

You can see what I mean by comparing
my spirituality, born of discontent, with the
spirituality of nature and sympathy that
Miss Kinseyle shows in her trances and halt-trances."


Launched on this current, the conversation
went on for some time longer on the same
lines. It was only a phrase of Edith's later
on, when the subject had been changed,
which led Mrs. Malcolm to withdraw from
her share of it. Marston had declared himself
quite ready to refresh their sensitive by
a dose of the old strengthening magnetism,
which had exercised so potent an effect upon
her on former occasions.

I do not say I will not consent to be
helped," Edith said, "but before I do I must
come to some understanding with you, Mr.
Marston."

"Well," said Mrs. Malcolm, "as I want
the understanding come to, I shall leave you
to arrange it by yourselves. Come, Terra,
let us leave the magician and his pupil to
their conference."

Marston merely answered, "Thanks; it's
very good of you' opened the door for her
as she rose and went out with Miss Fil-dare,
and then returned to the seat he had
been occupying — a low easy chair near the
sofa corner, in which Edith was as usual
established.

"It is a part of the strange artificial
life which we lead, that the chance of saying
a few w r words alone to you should be a difficult
privilege to gain."

Did you inspire me to ask her to leave
you alone with me V

I tried to."

It only makes me the more anxious to
speak plainly about all this. I have all kinds
of impressions as to what you have been trying
to do — more than impressions ; and yet I
do not like to speak of them to you till I am
quite sure, in the ordinary way, I mean, by
your telling me."

I wish nothing better than to tell you
quite plainly all that is in my heart about you
all I feel, and all I have provided for —
though I saw last night that you came to
know it by your higher faculties. It is quite

needless for me to be conventional and self-suppressed
any mora It is a farewell I am
taking of you, Edith, my beautiful queen ;
for I have learned how to realize the cry

which row to my lips, though I could not
utter it then, when I was last talking to you
in this room, on that miserable evening when
I made you see the gulf between us, so
plainly risible to me all along'

He had come up to her quite naturally and
pathetically as he spoke and knelt down by
side, taking one of her hands, which she
made no affected effort to withdraw, but
suffered him to bold quietly as he went on.
She leaned sideways against the arm of the
sofa, looking into his face with sad tender-what

I thought, then, as I stood by you
here was : Oh, that I could pour my life out
at your feet, and know no more the desolation
of vainly yearning for you ! But it was
a fruitless and empty groan then, and if my
wish had been realized at the moment as I
framed it, no purpose would have been
served."

u I have had the reflection of your feeling

in my heart all day, and it has made me so
intensely sad."

"But now — it is sad still, of course; but
there is one thing made clear, and that is,
what you know already, that I have found
a way to pour out my life, not merely to ease
my suffering, but in your blessed service.
You ought not to have known it yet. I see
now ; there was the mistake of last night.
But for that mistake, in the final and complete
transfer to you of the life-energy which holds
my body and soul in unwilling companionship,
you would have gained all that was needed
without the disturbance of feeling due to
knowing how it was gained. Now you
must know and understand it all; but, my
pure and unattainable love, do not reject
the offering. Take it in perfect frankness
and simplicity. Let your acceptance of it
be the only return you can make — the only
return you can make for my unutterable
love."

She did not speak as yet, but only shook
her head slowly and sadly, though her hand
vitalized itself in his grasp, and conveyed
thanks more eloquent than words.

If you do this, then you condone last
night's mistake for me."

My friend, you talk of laying down your
life for me in a way that ought to startle me
into terrified protest, only I have understood
what you meant since last night, and have
been thinking of nothing else — so I am
not startled now. But you must not — you
must not — I could not accept life on such
terms."

Bat, Edith "

Hush ! Think of the whole thing from
my point of view. I am bewildered about
myself; but remember what pledges I have
given. Your supreme devotion is so wonderful,
you are entitled to say anything to me ;
but I should be frightfully to blame if I goon
listening to you. It is all a terrible entanglement."


"Edith," he repeated softly, but firmly,
again using her name, in spite of her protest,
I may give you your dear name because, in
telling you of my love, I am not pleading
for any reward — as you truly saw in your
clairvoyant state last night. The memory of
this love shall not be a trouble in your heart

in the future, but, if I may humbly say so,
an elevating thought. It is not as if I ever
dreamed of trying to tear you away from
the bright prospect life holds out to you, to
make your beautiful existence my prey. I
have never contemplated the idea that you
could make the extravagant sacrifices required
to bring that about. Death sanctifies such
recollections as this talk of ours to-night may
leave with you ; and in the very act of telling
you how I adore you — in this one-sided exhalation
of love — I am speaking almost as I
might have spoken in a written paper, to be
left behind me when I go away. I had

thought that would have been all I could do.
©

I meant to have written a letter to you. to
leave in Marian's care, that she might have
given it you some day when alone with you.
But you divined everything last night, and
now I may speak instead of writing ; but it
is the same thing. Edith — Edith, my divinity,
never mind how or why I love you in
this way — never mind the mystery of the
thing — perhaps that will grow clearer later ;
but, you see, the fact is so, and cannot be
altered. I love you in a way which, if you

could constrain me to live on — for I should
have in that case to live without you — would
make life a torture. It would not be in the
nature of things that you should have any
corresponding feeling. I know you have not,
and I do not claim it for one instant. All I
claim is, that you should think of me with
just so much trustful regard as may enable
you to receive my offering without reluctance,
and wear the memory of it as something that
need net be in any way irksome."

I tell you I could not. It may be weakness
of a kind. If I wanted to live for any
grand purpose, then I would accept what you
offer me ; but if I live, what will it be for %
Just to lead an empty, frivolous, luxurious life,
that will not make me or anyone else any
better really. Dear friend, you forget that
the very influence you have been bringing to
bear upon me, especially since last night —
indeed, since last night it seems all translated
into that — tends to raise my thoughts and
aspirations above the sort of happiness life
holds out to me. Would it be happiness at
all, now ? I hardly know ; but, at any rate,
that sort of happiness purchased this way

would be unbearable. I cannot — I cannot


"My love, be merciful and gracious, and
do not reject my offering. For, Edith,
dearest, I tell you the die is cast — the step is
taken. I could not draw back if I would,
and Heaven knows how little I would if I
could ! This day has been spent in work
that cannot be undone. If I had been dying
from common-place illness in the ordinary
way, and you had come to me, when the
result was known to be inevitable, at my
entreaty, to give me the blessing of dying
with your adored face before my eyes, I
should not be more free than I am to speak
to you as I am speaking. I shall never see
you again, my beloved, after this night.
Listen "

As he spoke, they caught faintly the sound
of wheels on the little sweep of road coming
up to the hall-door from the main road, for
the house stood back a little from the
thoroughfare in which it was situated.

I have got a carriage here to take me
back to town, for the — the irritation and strain
of going by the railway after I leave you

vol. ii. 33

would have been too much to face. My
Edith, that is my excuse for the freedom I
give myself in these last few moments. Even
now I love and reverence you so that I would
obey you if you deny me the farewell I want ;
but you will not rob my parting from you of
the sweetness, the remembrance of which will
be the blessing of my future existence — the
one thought, the one consciousness, that will
vibrate there."

He leaned forward as he spoke, and
gathered her slight form in his arms and
kissed her wildly again and again. The conflict
of emotions by which she was torn and
shaken forbade her from speaking distinctly.
Her eyes were swimming with tears and her
lips quivering.

I give you my life, my own. It is my
supreme act of will. You cannot refuse it.
It is transfusing into your being as I speak,
and my heart, that has been beating for you
only for so long, is beating nearly its last
now in glad and proud exhaustion for your
sake, as it rests for the first and last time
against your own. You shall be happy in
this life, my glorious queen — in this life as

well as in the next — and you will not be
pained by the recollection of this evening
after the first excitement of it has passed.
You will know, with your splendid spiritual
consciousness, that this settlement of things
is best. My beloved, we could not both be
happy on this earth, at all events, and I
choose to stand aside and let you pass ; and
then — I do not know what will happen tome
exactly ; but I shall be no longer bound
to this suffering organism which has been
condemned to exist apart from you. Anyhow,
I am of service to you in dying, and I
can be of no service to you living."

Whatever influences were working upon
her — the intense excitement through which
she was passing, or something else as well, —
were now so powerful that any coherent
thought, not to speak of argumentative protests,
were wholly impossible for her. She
lay in his arms panting and flushed and giddy
with the tumultuous energy pulsing through
her veins. She clung to him, unconscious of
what she was doing, and he remained kneeling
beside her, clasping her in a close embrace
and murmuring words of love and devotion

33—2

and farewell. Under the dominion of a
different kind of bewilderment his own words
became more confused and his own sight uncertain
after a time.

"Ah! — I am staying — too long," he stammered,
— " I must go — good-bye — good-bye."

He rose to his feet, staggering as if intoxicated,
clutched at the chairs, and made his
way to the door. The noise he made as he
stumbled across the hall attracted Mrs. Malcolm
from the dining-room. He had already
seized his hat, which he held in his hand ashe
opened the outer door.

Sidney, what on earth is the matter ?"

"Don't stop me — good-bye. She will
explain."

Ah, you will fall !" she cried, as he
almost fell over the two or three steps which
separated the level of the hall from that of
the road.

Edith came flying through the hall from
the drawing-room as he was opening the
carriage door.

Do not let him go," she cried, " Marian
he is very ill. Stay ; I command you to
stop. I will not live without you."

Too late! too late!" he answered, but
rather in exultation than in sorrow. He
was stepping into the brougham, but she
came impetuously up to him and he embraced
her once more. " I shall carry your
last thought with me," he whispered, " my
love, my love — my gratitude and blessing
for it ; — but do not keep me back another
moment." With the same gesture he put
her away from him, and threw himself backward
into the carriage, drawing the door to
after him. " Drive on," he called in a loud
voice to the coachman.

The tone of intense adjuration in which he
had bidden Edith not to delay him, held her
paralysed in obedience to his wish. In the
darkness outside Mrs. Malcolm and Terra
Fildare in the hall had not seen what passed.
The carriage started off quickly, and its
wheels in a few moments grew fainter along
the road.

Darling," said Mrs. Malcolm, coming to
the door and calling to Edith. "Don't
stand there. Come in out of the night air ;
you will be taking cold. Tell me what extraordinary
thing has happened."

Taking cold !" repeated Edith, with a
strange scorn for the idea in the tone of her
voice. " You don't know yet, Marian.
There is little fear of my taking cold." She
came back into the lighted hall, and faced
Mrs. Malcolm — gazing at her wildly. " Good
Heavens ! it is terrible."

What possesses you ?"

But the noise in the hall had attracted one
of the maids.

I will tell you," she said, seizing Mrs.
Malcolm's hand and dragging her along to
the drawing-room with a greater exercise of
force than she was conscious of giving out at
the moment. Terra hesitated whether to
follow, but Edith held the door open and
called to her to come.

Why should there be any secret ? Surely
such things should be known, that people
may understand what heroism is possible."

The whole situation seemed to flash on
Mrs. Malcolm's understanding as they stood
together in the room without another word
being spoken. Edith stood on the hearthrug
with compressed lips, breathing hard through
her nostrils. Mrs. Malcolm uttered a cry,

and put up her hands to each side of her
forehead.

Yes ; he has died for me," Edith said
almost fiercely. " We shall never see him
living again."

How do you mean, died V 7 cried Terra.
Mrs. Malcolm, understanding the whole
position, had remained silent, but Terra was
startled into disregarding her usual rule of
not asking questions across the current of her
friends' mysterious talk, by the nature of
Edith's last exclamation.

You may well ask," Edith said. It was a
necessity for her to speak, in the intensity of
her excitement and vehemence, and Terra's
complete ignorance of the whole mystery
involved was an opportunity on which she
seized.

These things which are so strange to you
are tremendous realities to him and to me.
He had always been able to make me strong
to refresh me by magnetism when I was
enfeebled — and that used to exhaust him in
exactly the same way it strengthened me.
It was a transfer of vitality. He could give
it out, I could absorb it. But these small

efforts in the past were as nothing to what he
found out at last to be possible. He has
learned how to pour out his life in a great
flood upon me, so that I have been made
strong and well, and he — is dead at this
moment in the carriage that is driving his
body to London !"

Terra uttered a cry of astonishment and
horror, and sat down trembling in a chair.
Mrs. Malcolm put her handkerchief to her
eyes, and sitting down on the sofa corner,
buried her face in the cushions. Edith began
to pace the room, backwards and forwards
along the side that was clearest of furniture,
pushing the light things out of her way as
she passed.

"But why," asked Terra presently in
bewilderment, " why has he done this ?"

"Why? Well, indeed, you may ask, for
love, I suppose, does not often take such a
turn as that. He had come to care for
nothing in life but me, and now I see quite
clearly he had such power over me really,
though I never felt it, because he never tried
to exert it, that he might have drawn me to
anything, in spite of — in spite of everything

that made me never think of him in that
way. But he wouldn't do that, because he
cared more for my happiness than for his
own — more for my life than for his own.
Oh, Marian, was there ever anything so
heroic, when you come to think of it ? It is
not the sacrifice of life that is the great thing.
It is the other sacrifice that overwhelms me,
though the life sacrifice illuminates it so
wonderfully."

Mrs. Malcolm shook her head and looked
up when thus addressed, speaking with
difficulty, for she had been giving her lost
friend a genuine and hearty tribute of tears.

It is altogether beautiful and noble, and
it is miserable to lose him, but I verily believe
he did the best and wisest thing possible."

I am not sure," said Edith.

Do you mean that his intention in someway
may fail V

Fail \ In one way it is accomplished. I
could tear myself to pieces for it, but as for
my physical strength I feel wild with strength
like a panther or a leopard. But I can't
bear the feeling. If it was altogether another
sort of strength he had given me, if I was so

much the higher raised towards the nobler
state he has sometimes been able to put me
into, that would seem a result better worth
the sacrifice ; but merely to get health — that
is not what I want, not what I care about —
What r

The last exclamation was suddenly uttered
as if in answer to some interruption that had
not come from either of the two living people
with her. She had stopped suddenly in her
walk facing the unoccupied corner of the
room, as though the interruption had come
from there.

"Did you see anything?" she asked of
Mrs. Malcolm, who had looked up, following
the direction of her gaze.

No."

It was Zephyr again. He was visible
there for a few moments, and he seemed to
speak to me, but I did not distinctly hear
what was said . . . What did he mean ? I
feel he meant to call my attention somehow
"

Obeying an impulse that she did not stop
to reason about, she went to the door and
threw it open.

There !" she cried impetuously, " Don't
you see that ?"

Both Mrs. Malcolm and Terra Fildare
sprang forward and looked out into the hall,
folio win £ the direction to which her arm
pointed.

This time they both saw — the same effect
that she saw herself.

Mr. Marston !" Terra called out in astonishment.


Sidney V

Edith herself made no sound, but she made
a step forward beyond the doorway. Marston's
figure had been seen by them all, standing
in the middle of the hall, with a proud and
joyous look lighting up the face. As Edith
stepped forward it seemed to grow indistinct.
She paused, and it remained in sight a few
moments longer, and then seemed to move
across the hall and disappear, though there
was no way out in the direction towards which
it passed.

"Oh, good Heavens!" Terra exclaimed,
trembling violently, " was that a ghost ?"

One that you need hardly fear," said
Edith. " My noble, true-hearted friend !" She

went out into the hall and wandered about,
standing where the figure had been perceptible
just before, and passing across in the
direction it had taken.

He looked happier than he ever looked
in life ; did he not, Marian V

The vision somehow worked a soothing
effect upon her, but when she came back into
the drawing-room she found Terra very much
overcome and almost fainting. Her nerves,

o

entirely unused to psychic appearances, had
been upset by the sudden contact with what
to her had all the terrors of the supernatural.
She had clung for support to Mrs.
Malcolm, who guided her to the sofa, and her
usually glowing colour had faded to an earthy
tint.

Edith went to the dining-room to get water,
and, held up by Mrs. Malcolm's calm and
resolute assurances that there was nothing to
be frightened about as much as by her own
natural strength of character, which made her
instinctively struggle against faintness, she
passed the critical moment without actually
losing consciousness. She took some of the
water which Edith brought, and w T et handkerchiefs

were dabbed on her forehead till she
recovered her self-possession and could talk
of what had occurred.

That sort of spectral appearance," Mrs.
Malcolm assured her, u is often seen when
people are at the point of death. Nothing is
more natural than that it should have been
visible here under the circumstances."

It's such an overwhelming thing to
actually see" she protested, none the less.
But how did you know it was there V she
asked of Edith.

Zephyr told me. That's a spirit I see
all to myself. He showed himself and spoke
to me just before, and then I half understood
what he meant, and opened the door."

But do you mean to say you saw some
other spectre in here ?"

They were none of them in a laughing
mood, so the question, which at another time
might have had a ludicrous aspect, was met
by some grave explanation that had all the
greater force for Terra by reason of the shock
she had just gone through.

I wish Zephyr would come back and talk
to me quietly," Edith exclaimed impatiently

after awhile ; "he might tell me things I want
to know," and in her eagerness she called
aloud upon her absent sprite; Terra shuddered,
and entreated her not.

It wouldn't affect you," Edith said.
You wouldn't see him. Marian even does
not see him. But it seems no use for the
moment. Perhaps I am too excited just
now ; I may be able to get him to come
when I am alone upstairs and quiet."

This idea appeared so frightful to Terra
that it led to further talk about psychic
phenomena, which constituted a revelation
for her that could hardly have had the same
effect at any other time. Her nerves, however,
had undergone so great a strain that
she gladly accepted Mrs. Malcolm's offer to
take her over into her own room for the
night.

I thought I was a fairly courageous person,"
she said ; " but I am sorry to see I ama
greater coward than I thought."

There is no question of cowardice or
bravery in the matter, my dear. It is a
question of familiarity."

Edith meanwhile had grown all the more

impatient for the seclusion of her own
room.

Perhaps I shall understand things better
in the morning," she said ; and with that
they separated.

SEEN IN A NEW LIGHT.

Mrs. Malcolm did not wait to receive news
of Marston's death through any ordinary
channel, but telegraphed to her brother at
the Hague the following morning, begging
him to come over at once in connection with
an urgent matter affecting their friend. She
said that an explanatory letter would await
him at his club, as she had no wish to bring
about a premature meeting between himself
and Terra Fildare. To Terra she said nothing
at the time on the subject of the message,
though a great deal of earnest talk passed
between them during the day. The events
of the previous night had made a deep impression
on Terra, and put a new face, for
her, in many ways, on her own trouble.
Edith had been up early, pacing about the

garden by herself, but, though restless and
excited, was more inclined to remain alone,
wrapped in her own thoughts, than to open
them out even to Mrs. Malcolm just then.
She had seen Zephyr again in the night, she
declared, and had learned some things she
wished to know, but had not got her mind
clear enough to talk of them for the moment.

Look at it how you will," she said, "it is
a tragedy — a catastrophe of which I am the
cause. There might have been a very different
end to it, and perhaps there ought to
have been."

Terra naturally asked, when alone with
Mrs. Malcolm, for information concerning
the course of Edith's engagement.

u It was a very natural result about Colonel
Danby," she said. " Everybody saw that he
was paying her great attention at Oatfleld ;
and it was a very nice match for her. But
had this affair with Mr. Marston gone far V

The situation was so strange and unusual,
that though it had gone far in one way, it
had not gone on at all in the way you mean.
Of course Mr. Marston was in love with
her — I knew that — but he never said a word

vol. ii. 34

on the subject to her, and he never entertained
the thought of marrying her. There
was a great shadow over his own life that
made him think it would be wrong to ask
any woman to share it. He had the most
beautifully unselfish nature ; and he let Edith
know about the shadow that I refer to, in a
way that he intended to put all thoughts
that he could be aiming at acceptance as her
lover out of the question."

If he had kept the secret, do you

think " Terra asked mournfully. ' ' Could

he have made her care for him ?"

I am sure he could ; not merely because
there was so much lovable in him in the
ordinary way, but because he had so much
psychic influence over her. You can understand
that now, after what you have seen.
But it is impossible for anyone who knew
Sydney Marston as I did to think of him as
attempting to gain any object of his own at
the cost of a deception like that. The truth
is, I believe, that without any deception at
all, even after he had told Edith the secret I
speak of — which was nothing disgraceful to
himself in any way — that he might have won

her. But, as I say, he did not think his life
bright enough for her to share ; and under
the circumstances, much as she liked him,
she never came to have any feeling about him
that was overwhelming in its strength —
enough to make her put aside all worldly
considerations."

Oh, Mrs. Malcolm P said Terra, with
something like a groan. " Just think of the
difference between his behaviour and — the
way I was treated !'

Absorbed in her thoughts about Edith
and Marston, Mrs. Malcolm had not at first
seen the intricate parallel. She looked up
at Terra now, as they sat together by the
drawing-room window, and realized the course
of the girl's thoughts.

"eyes ; there is something in common between
the two cases. Don't let it hurt you
too much, dear. Perhaps it was thoughtless
to bring the idea before your mind."

Hurt me ! It ought to hurt me !" said
Terra. " Oh ! I deserve so thoroughly to be
hurt for worshipping an image of gilded
clay."

The perfection of Mrs. Malcolm's sympathy

34—2

had always guarded her from the mistake that
a friend of less delicacy of feeling might have
made, and she had never aggravated the distress
of Terra's position by reviling the behaviour
of the Count. Even now she did
not break out into any emphatic endorsement
of Terra's outcry, but cherished her instead,
taking her hand and speaking soothingly.

My poor wounded bird, we are all liable
to be short-sighted and to make mistakes in

life r

u But just think of it. There was more
than a shadow over the life in my case —
something that made it a horror and an
outrage to me that I should be asked to
share it. But merely because he coveted mein
mere selfish desire for his own sake, he exposed
me to all that. If my future had been
wrecked, and destroyed, and made shameful,
he would have been indifferent by that time.
He simply sought me as a man might seek
the basest gratification for himself. Oh,
heavens ! to think what human nature is
capable of !"

Human nature is capable of both extremes,
dear."

u Yes ; I see that now, and the sight of
one extreme has shown me the other. But
on ! Mrs. Malcolm, I was mad enough to love
him, and I am so ashamed of myself !"

She burst out crying and knelt down,
hiding her face in Mrs. Malcolm's lap. Her
wise friend did not regret or ridicule the
tears, but caressed her and spoke affectionate
words in a disjointed way, without arguing
the matter at all. Terra's intense and passionate
nature, however, made the crisis a
severe one for her, and she went on with
fresh self-reproaches when she had recovered
command of her voice.

I suppose a disgusting thirst for rank
and riches had more to do with the matter
than I supposed. I ought to go and be a
sempstress for a punishment, and earn my
living in a garret."

Terra, dear," said Mrs. Malcolm, not
thinking it necessary to answer the last
outcry definitely, " I was drawn to you at
first just in mere sympathy with you in your
trouble, but I never expected I should come
to love you as I do now."
I'm not fit to be loved."

Then I must be very foolish.'

The strain of her emotion was relaxed
after a time, and later on they spoke again
of Edith.

Do you think she is suffering very
much ?" Terra asked. " She seems so wild
and excited I do not understand her."

Edith has such a wonderful double
nature, it is very difficult to judge her
thoughts and feelings by ordinary rules.
After last night you will realize that. In
general it is only people with what we call
psychic faculties who can understand others
of their own kind. Other people have an
incredulous impression that psychic attributes
are all fancy and nonsense ; but of
course, for those who have them, they are the
most real things of all."

But why didn't she fall in love with Mr.
Marston ?"

I don't know. As I say, she has a
double nature. Of course, all the ordinary
feelings and facts of life told upon her too.
Away at Hatfield, you see, she was under
the dominion of the more worldly side of her
nature, I suppose, and from that point of

view of course poor Sidney would have been
an impossible person as a lover. And indeed
he tuas impossible, if her health and life
could only be purchased by the sacrifice that
has been made*'

That is so utterly extraordinary."

Yes, indeed; but just as physical a fact,
you see, as commonplace things that are
better understood."

What a realm of wonder you and she must
have been living in when she was down herewith
you before !"

"Yes, indeed; to a greater extent than
you can realize yet. Even after what you
have seen you would not be able to believe
some things I could tell you about Edith."

I do not torment you with questions,
Mrs. Malcolm, because I have seemed to be
so outside it all. But I am sure I should
not disbelieve anything you tell me really
happened."

Well, let it come bit by bit, dear. It
will be better so."

In the afternoon, when Edith, who had
been roaming about the house in an unquiet
way, had gone out for a walk by

herself, Terra began again about her own
affairs.

I think I ought to write to papa, Mrs.
Malcolm," she said, " and make some sort of
abject confession that I have come at last to
see what a fool I have been, and how badly
I behaved to him."

Write him a nice letter, dear, by all
means, but I am sure he will not want any
apologies. It will be reward enough for him
if he can be enabled to see that you are
getting over your trouble a little."

How did he find it all out, Mrs. Malcolm
? That's what I can't understand.
How could he learn everything all at once
over in India, and come straight home,
picking up — that woman on his way without
a day's loss of time ? It's perfectly bewildering."


Mrs. Malcolm remained silent.

Of course I haven't a right to be told
anything ; but do you know anything as to
how he found it out ?"

I know some things, dear, but — it's so
awkward."

Very well," said Terra, with a new impulse

of the meekness with which she was
lashing her own remorse. " Indeed, 1 do not
complain if you choose not to tell me. I do
honestly feel what I say, that I am utterly
without any claim in the matter of any
sort"'

"My own dear, I have hesitated from
such different reasons. First of all it did
not seem necessary to worry you with details.
All I was anxious to do was to soothe
and sorrow with you when you suffered. It
is very nice of you to reproach yourself, but
of course you will not really suspect me of
joining with you in any reproaches of that
sort. I only look upon you as my dear
patient, who has been cruelly hurt, and if I
can nurse you into health again I shall be
very happy."

Terra responded by a look of gratitude,
but said nothing for the moment. Mrs.
Malcolm went on —

But I can see that, of course, you must
be wanting to know more, and now I will be
brave enough to be frank. You see, we all
helped your father in one way or another,
and though it was done, of course, in the

UNITED.

purest and simplest way imaginable, I was
afraid at first that you might think we had
been meddlesome. There, dear, you see it is
I who have to make a confession, and I do
hope now I have begun it that you will give
me absolution, and tell me you do not think
my interference was impertinent."

Terra gazed with open eyes of wonder, but
the right note in her heart had been struck
by the conversation of the morning, and
without waiting to hear more she sat down
on the ground, with her arm across Mrs.
Malcolm's lap, and said :

"Now, then, let me know the full measure
of my debt to you. So you have not alone
nursed me through my misery, but were the
person who saved me from the first !"

1 am so glad you take it in that way
that I will absorb all the praises you can give
me. It is so difficult to do people a service
sometimes, because, indeed, it is only a
generous nature that can feel gratitude, and
one is so apt to excite a very different feeling,
especially where there is so much pain to be
borne as you have gone through."

Oh, I'm a very noble and beautiful

specimen of humanity, I know," Terra replied
with a sarcastic emphasis. " And now may
I know some more, and see whether I can
forgive you for rescuing me from the horrible
snare my own wisdom and goodness was
taking me into V

I can tell you the main thing in half a
dozen words, and you will understand them
now, though you could not have done so
yesterday. The whole situation was seen
clairvoyance by Edith I"

The revelation was so entirely different
from anything she had expected that Terra
was dumb for a while with surprise. By
slow degrees, and bit by bit, the whole story
was told ; how Mrs. Malcolm's suspicions had
been awakened by impressions Edith had
had at Hatfield, and how the whole truth was
brought out afterwards during her trance.

"But then, how was the woman to be got
at ? Did you write to papa V 9

No ; that would have wasted too much
time." Up to this point of the conversation
George Ferrars' name had not been mentioned.
Now, as naturally and easily as she
could, Mrs. Malcolm added : " You see, my

brother was with us then, so he took his
share of the work at that point — went over
to Spain and found the woman, and induced
her to go with him to Brindisi, where he
gave her over to Colonel Fildare, with all the
necessary information. And then he went
back to the Hague."

The emotions Terra had been going through
during the day had exhausted her liability to
fresh agitation for the moment. She listened
in a kind of stupor, and said nothing in
immediate reply, while Mrs. Malcolm stroked
the beautiful masses of her loose tawny hair.

Oh, the trouble I've been giving to
people !" she murmured presently. " Oh, Mrs.
Malcolm, what a pity I wasn't drowned in
my cradle !"

My dear, do you think there is anybody
of all the people concerned who would not
feel rewarded over and over again by knowing
you were content — that is, that you had
accepted the service rendered without thinking
it meddlesome V

I am very grateful," said Terra in a low
voice presently, " to everyone concerned."

RECOVERED.

George Ferrars would have had news of
Marston's death even if Mrs. Malcolm had '
not sent him the telegram. For papers were
found upon Marston's person directing that
news should be sent to his friend. He lived
in utter loneliness at Temple chambers, and
had no intimate friends among his neighbours,
but the final course of events had been provided
for with much careful arrangement.
When the brougham reached town, and the
coachman endeavoured to obtain from his
passenger some information as to which of
the Temple entrances he should make for, he
could obtain no response. He had to stop
and get down from his box, thinking his
temporary master was in a very sound sleep.
When he found that something was wrong
he appealed to a policeman, and then, by the

counsels of this sensible adviser, drove to the
nearest hospital. There the true state of the
case became apparent, and search being made
for pocket-book or letters to identify the
dead man, a letter was found addressed " to
the proper authorities if I should die suddenly."
This letter, in an open envelope,
announced that the writer knew he was
suffering from heart disease, and might expire
suddenly at any moment. It explained that
in that case he would wish the news of his
death communicated to Mr. George Ferrars,
his greatest friend, then at such and such an
address abroad, and also to solicitors, whose
address was given. The solicitors applied to
the following day on behalf of the hospital
authorities confirmed the statement in the
letter. Within the last few weeks their
client had actually mentioned to them that
his sudden death was an event within reasonable
probability. They held his will, of
which Mr. Ferrars was the executor. The
whole incident was perfectly intelligible, and
was disposed of by a paragraph of six or
seven lines in some of the newspapers. The
inquest was a mere formality, and before

Ferrars could actually start in obedience to
his sister's message he received news of the
death from the solicitors. He was in London
on the day following that on which the conversations
last recorded had taken place
between Terra Fildare and Mrs. Malcolm.

Mrs. Malcolm had not entrusted even to
the letter she sent to meet her brother at his
club any full account of the extraordinary
circumstances really attending Marston's
death. These she gave him at a meeting
they arranged in town, at the private hotel
in a street off Piccadilly where he generally
put up when in London. This rendezvous
took place on the third day of Edith's visit,
when, in fulfilment of the original programme,
she delivered herself up to her Deerbury
Park friends at Brook Street, coming up
from Richmond with Mrs. Malcolm.

"If I could have seen my way clearly,"
she told Mrs. Malcolm, as they were going
up in the train, " I should have insisted on a
longer stay with you under the circumstances
; but I don't know yet what I ought
to do. The only thing I feel bent upon is that
I must go back home to Compton Wood fora

time. I can't explain what has occurred in
any way that will be in the least intelligible
to any of the people about me, but I shall tell
them I have shared the shock you have experienced
in the sudden death of a very near
and intimate friend, and this may be an excuse
for some little delay in the arrangements
that were being made."

But are you coming to shrink from them,
Edith dear ?"

I don't know. At all events, anything immediate
would be intensely distasteful to me."

I can understand that — and I should be
sorry if you felt differently ; but still I have
a feeling now that since the sacrifice has been
made, the truest response you can make to it
is to let it bear the fruit it was meant to
bear."

We must see. But at all events for the
present I must go to Compton Wood.
Marian, will you hold yourself ready to come
to me there at short notice, if I should really
have need of you V

Mrs. Malcolm promised, but at once foresaw
a possible difficulty about Terra, if such
a summons should come soon.

You must bring Terra with you, if you
cannot make any other arrangement ; but I
have a feeling that I might be wild to have
you with me. I feel on the brink of some
kind of crisis. I don t know what it is, and
I have had nothing unusual happen to me in
the way of psychic things — but I seem somehow
just ready to burst some sort of shell.
That is why I must go to Compton Wood.
If anything is to happen to me, it will be at
Kinseyle Court."

I wish I could go with you at once."

I wish to goodness you could."

They both felt, however, that a real duty
stood in the way, and nothing more was said
on that subject. Mrs. Malcolm did not go
in with Edith at the Brook Street Hotel,
but ascertaining that her friends were there,
bade her good-bye in the carriage, which had
been sent to meet Edith at the station, and
then went on alone to see her brother.

I shall see you again soon," Edith had
said, " I am sure of that," and their parting
was not treated as a serious solemnity.

And now," said George Ferrars to his
sister, when they met shortly afterwards,

vol. ii. 35

'■ is there any clue to this mystery % I never
knew that Sidney had heart disease."

He hadn't anything of the kind. His
death has been something too solemn and
wonderful to write of in a letter. But now
I will tell you all about it."

When the whole situation had at last been
made clear to him, Ferrars declared that the
tragedy of the death had been lost in the
splendour of it. " It was well and grandly
done. That was Sidney Marston all over."

Yes ; it was beautiful and heroic, we
have all felt that ; — no one more so than
Terra Fildare."

Does she realize the thing ? It is so out
of the common way that I should think no
one could understand it without having been
trained by knowing you or Miss Kinseyle."

She was present, you see, on the evening
when we saw Sidney's wraith. That made an
immense impression on her. And then
there were other things to guard her from incredulity.
She understands fully what was
done, and it is a great blessing for her that
she has so understood it."
How do you mean ?"

It has let in a flood of light on her mind,
and has shown her her own recent adventures
in their true colour. It was she detected the
significance of the contrast, when I had
been so wrapped up in thoughts of poor
Sidney that I had not seen it — the contrast,
I mean, between the devotion and unselfishness
of his life sacrifice on Edith's
behalf, and the cruel reckless selfishness of
the man she herself was so nearly falling a
victim to. It was a great crisis for her,
George, but she has come through it cured
to an extent that might have seemed quite
impossible, considering the short time that
has elapsed."

I am very glad to hear it."

Indeed, I may almost say that without
your name having been explicitly mentioned
I have a sort of indirect message for you."

But, good heavens ! Marian, you have
not told her anything about my share in the
late discoveries ?"

u Trust me, George, to have done right. I
knew your feeling, and I knew the risk, but
I knew that the proper moment had come. I
never thought to do so so soon, but I told Terra

QK O

everything, and though it was a shock to her
to realize all the trouble that had been taken
for her, her final comment was that she was
deeply grateful to all the persons concerned."

How faultless your tact is, Marian ! But
your perfect influence has been at work, too,
for the last fortnight'

It was Sidney really who worked the
double miracle ; but my part has been made
easy in more ways than one — especially
because I have come to love Terra more sincerely
than I ever thought to."

That's good."

I have not had any talk with you,
George, since the crisis. I should like to
know whether anything — any subtle working
of all that has happened — has affected your
own feelings in any way, or whether you still
feel as you used about her."

Of course ; one does not change in
matters of that kind."

That's right ; because I should think
now, in the long run, everything ought to
be as you wish."

Meanwhile Mrs. Malcolm said nothing at
Richmond of her brother's presence in London,

and a few days passed without the fact
betraying itself to Terra. Her " nice letter "
to her father in the interim had produced
satisfactory results, and was answered, as
regards the most important reply it elicited,
by Lady Margreave. Terra was assured
that in view of what she had written to her
father she was entirely forgiven, and would
be welcomed back to Hatfield whenever she
liked to come.

Very black storms will sometimes breakup
more quickly than seems likely at first,
when the change once sets in," Mrs. Malcolm
remarked on reading the letter. " It will be
right for you to respond to that proposal
cordially, and to go back to Hatfield soon.
But you have a second home here, you
know, at all times, and you must look oncoming
here as a duty — a pleasant duty, I
hope, but a duty still, seeing that I shall be
wanting you so badly."

This led to some discussion as to when
Terra should go, and this to an admission on
Mrs. Malcolm's part that when she went she
herself would go down for awhile to Edith,
at Compton Wood. An apprehension that

she was in the way of this arrangement was
at once kindled in Terra mind ; but Mrs.
Malcolm contrived to subdue it by representing
that Edith had not yet summoned
her to go down. Terra was only partially
satisfied by the explanation, but Mrs.
Malcolm persuaded her to wait on at Richmond
till Edith's summons should come,
assuming that it might come within a week
or so. Thus they could set out for their
respective destinations together. Then,
however, they got talking about Marston,
and Terra asked some straightforward questions
about what had been the course of
events in regard to the funeral, and so forth.
What friends and relations had Marston
lived amongst ?

u He was practically alone in the world,"
Mrs. Malcolm explained. " He had a
brother in Australia, and a sister out there
married."

But somebody must have looked after
the funeral. Who were his nearest friends V

We were by far his nearest friends in
the sense of true affection and sympathy.
My brother George was his only real intimate

amongst men, and of course he has
been doing what was necessary."

"He— Mr. Ferrars ? but I thought he
was at the Hague."

He came over to look after Sidney's
affairs, and has been doing what had to be
done."

Terra was silent. That the fear lest she
had been in the way in this matter again,
and had been keeping George Ferrars out of
his natural resting-place in his sister's house,
was passing through her mind, was too obvious
to be overlooked. And when she said
in a serious, constrained tone, and with a
clouded brow :

Marian, tell me where your brother
generally lives when he is in England V
Mrs. Malcolm met the inquiry with a frank
and open smile.

In Half Moon Street, my dear, at the
Crown Hotel. He finds it conveniently near
his club."

But he was down here with you when
Edith was with you the other time."

"He used not to sleep here. He came down
for dinner, and so forth — but that was all."

But now he can't come, however much
he and you may wish it. because there is
an intruder in the field he would find it
awkward or disagreeable to meet. What
an unfortunate creature I am I"

My dear Terra, we are all bound to consider
your feelings and peace of mind, after
all you have gone through. I can easily see
George in town whenever I want to ; but
you must not be disturbed in this retreat
by anyone till you are quite ready to see
people."

I tell you my retreat ought to have been
a penitentiary."

But you see my poor little house and
Hatfield are both competing for you, so the
claims of the penitentiary are borne down."

But, Marian, it is horrible to feel I am
making your house unapproachable to your
own brother, whom you value so intensely.
If it is too disagreeable for him to meet me
here, do let me go off at once."

Who said it would be disagreeable for
him to meet you, dear ? The whole thing is
a question of your peace and comfort. Of
course, if you do not really mind having him

come here sometimes, he will be very glad to
come."

So they met again the following afternoon
quite unexpectedly for Terra. She and
Mrs. Malcolm were sitting in the bow-window
of the drawing-room, with tea on a
little table beside them, also bearing some
fancy work materials — with which Terra, infected
by Mrs. Malcolm's example, was
getting into the way of sometimes occupying
her fingers — when the maid opened the door
and, in the most natural tone in the world,
said, " Mr. Ferrars."

George came in, grave with a sense of the
momentous nature of the visit, but as undemonstrative
and simple in manner as if he
had been paying any other ordinary call.
Terra bent forward for a moment over her
work — she was turned away from the door,
facing outwards towards the garden — and
then looked round, rose up and shook hands,
with the usual question of conventional
greeting on her lips. Ferrars replied to it
in the same terms, kissed his sister, and sat
down, drifting into a commonplace chat about
the appearance of the garden, the tea, and

the wool-work — the key-note of the situation
once struck in this way dominated the conversation
all the afternoon and during dinner.
No burning questions were touched upon, and
nothing said in regard to the important part
Ferrars had played in bringing about the
overthrow of Terra's recent engagement ; but
the fact that she was ready to be on friendly
terms with him — knowing all that he had
done — was sufficient evidence for him that
she did not resent the interference.

They naturally discussed Edith and her
affairs at great length, and Marston's great
sacrifice, and all the wonderful views of
psychic mystery which the whole of that
transaction opened out ; but George and
Terra were at no time alone together, and
perhaps neither regretted that the evening
should in this way have been dedicated
merely to a dissipation of the first feeling of
awkwardness incidental to the renewal of
their intercourse.

The ice once broken, Ferrars was free of
his sister s house again, and resumed coming
there, as a matter of course, every day.
Probably, if Terra had been regularly settled

at Richmond, some time might have elapsed
before any definite words were spoken in
renewal of his old suit to her ; but on the
third day of his restored intimacy, he found
a crisis impending, on his arrival by appointment
for a drive with the two ladies in the
park. A letter had come from Edith, claiming
the fulfilment of Mrs. Malcolm's promise
to go to Compton Wood. She entreated her
to come with all possible speed, bringing Terra
with her if need were, but in any case to
come.

In accordance with the plan already
settled, Terra had written off at once to
Hatfield, warning Lady Margreave to expect
her the following day; and Mrs. Malcolm
was upstairs when Ferrars arrived, making
her own arrangements for the journey.
Ferrars was rather disconcerted by the new
programme at first, and sat down in the bow-window,
not far from Terra's chair, with an
expression of regret at the break-up of the
party.

One is never left in peace for long in this
world. Fate seems to hunt us about in a
very persevering way."

It has been an incalculable blessing forme
to have been left all this time with your
sister. Her sympathy and friendship are
substantial, good things in this life, which it
is worth — going through a great deal to have
gained."

You have certainly gained them very
completely. I need hardly tell you how
fond she is of you."

I know that is so, though the reasons of
it are altogether in her own goodness. I
have only caused her a great deal of trouble
and worry. But it has been my destiny to
serve all my friends and relations in the same
way''

I suppose there might be some way of
accounting for it, if they none of them
mind J"

I mind very much myself, at any rate.
I used to be what people stupidly call proud,
which means very surly and reluctant to
accept services. Part of the penalty for me
has been that I have been overwhelmed by

services that " She hesitated a little,

and Ferrars finished the sentence.

That you need not have known anything

about — in some cases, at all events. Then
you would have been spared any uncomfortable
feelings on the subject."

At the expense of having my own worst
qualities fed and stimulated. I am not sorry
that I have to acknowledge the help rendered
me in spite of myself. It is a good lesson."

There was still some internal chafing in
her nature against the attitude she thus took
up, which hardened her tone a little; and
with the promptitude to misapprehend feelings
that lovers are prone to, Ferrars read more in
the words than they were intended to convey.

I do not think anyone concerned can
have had the ungenerous desire to look on
anything done in that light."

Nothing was meant in that way, I know,
but I can't help reading it so."

I am very sorry. I did not wish you to
know I had played any part in recent events,
lest you should — by a most natural impulse
do me the wrong of thinking that I had
even the least flavour in my mind of a desire
to triumph over you. If I had been your
brother I could not have done what I did
with a purer or simpler motive. But I had

the feeling that, because of some things in
the past, it might seem obtrusive. "

Mr. Ferrars, I must be clumsy and
stupid in some way. You are misunderstanding
me somehow. I merely meant to
thank you humbly for what you did in my
behalf. The very fact that you did it in
simple brotherly kindness only makes your
action the more generous. I don't want to
talk of it more than can be helped, but T
should have been ashamed of myself if I had
not frankly thanked you. Of course you would
know I was grateful, but it would have been
mean to have said nothing."

It is very good of you to say that, and
now by all means let us put the matter aside.
But I wish you had been staying longer
here. Hatfield is a pleasant house, but I
have a boundless faith in the virtues of
Marian's companionship, and I would rather
you had that than anything else just now."

I am looking forward to coming here
again when the Margreaves return to town."

I am afraid that will not be till after
Christmas."

There was a pause in the conversation at

this point. Xo conversations are so apt to
be halting as those in which floods of thoughts
have to be pent up on one side or the other.
Ferrars found he could only break the silence
by speaking seriously.

There is one thing I must say before you
go. I shrunk so much from seeming importunate
that I should rather not have
asked you to remember this just yet ; but to
guard against any possibility of mistake in
the matter in your mind, you will understand,
of course, that as long as you are free
I can never give up — my old purpose — about

you. I don't want * he was going on

with some phrase that should have saved her
from the necessity of making any reply, but
some feelings had been pent up in Terra's
breast too, and she cried :

Oh, George ! George ! how can you ever
forgive me T

A sort of bewildered sense that he had
heard the words before came over Ferrars as
she spoke ; but he was not in the mood to
analyse psychic phenomena at the moment.
He was kneeling by her side in an instant,
all cautious weighing of words forgotten,

broken down by the flood that had burst its
barriers.

Forgive you, Terra ! my only love !
How can there be any place for such a
thought in my heart about you % You didn't
think, did you, that I could have changed an
atom \ I might have had to repress all outward
sign of my love for you under some
conditions, but nothing could have made me
think of you differently from the way I do.
And if you lift the seal from my lips, of
course the expression of my love for you
must come forth in a torrent. But even now
I do not know whether you have really lifted
the seal."

At all events she did not oppose his
caresses.

What more would you have me say ?"
she asked.

Only that if I ask Lady Margreave tolet
me come down to Oatfielcl you will not
be displeased."

Later on in the conversation, which took a
good deal for granted, Terra spoke of her
former " pride" again as something that
had been pretty effectually subdued now, soit

hardly mattered what the Margreaves
would think of her when they should learn
what had transpired.

But it matters everything," Ferrars answered.
" It matters above all things that
you should be protected from any criticism
that may annoy you. And besides, I really
never hoped to get free speech with you —
not to speak of an understanding so complete
as this — so soon. The whole thing can remain
an absolute secret between us, with
Marian alone excepted, of course. I was
wrong to suggest coming down to Oatfleld.
Let that wait."

Mrs. Malcolm came in while they w T ere
talking. Ferrars put her in possession of
the facts in a delicate way.

I have heard from Terra of your sudden
plans," he said ; " but she has promised to
come back here as soon as that can be managed,
and then I hope something may be settled
that will keep us all together permanently.
Of course, meanwhile, nobody will be in this
understanding but us three."

Mrs. Malcolm went up and kissed her.

14 I am so glad, dear Terra."

vol. ji. 3G

You see," said Terra, in a tone of
raockeiy, not without a certain bitterness,
if the Margreaves were told at once, that
might be pleasant for your brother, but it
would perhaps involve a little wound to my
vanity. Naturally, it is only right, considering
how meritorious a person I am in
all respects, and such a blessing as I have
been to my friends, that anybody's feelings
should be sacrificed rather than mine."

"Dearest," said Mrs. Malcolm, "don't
you see that we who love you have a sense
of luxury in making little sacrifices for your
sake V

Perhaps," said Terra ; " 1 am indeed beginning
to learn the lesson, and to realize
that the principle may cut both ways."

THE FUTURE VISIBLE.

The moment Mrs. Malcolm saw Edith, on
her arrival at Compton Wood, she noticed
that some subtle change had come over her.
The gloomy pensiveness that had settled
upon her for the day or two immediately
following the recent events at Richmond had
given way to a return of something more like
her old bright vivacity ; but with all this
she was evidently under the dominion of some
exalted feeling which gave a peculiar radiance
to her eyes, and a dreamy sweetness to her expression
when her face was in repose, different
in some ways from the varied and manifold
charms it had always worn. Her colour
was heightened , but more concentrated than
formerly.

Has anything happened to you V Mrs.

36—2

Malcolm asked. " You have a look that I
do not understand."

Quantities of things have happened,
dear. I have so much to tell you that I do
not know where to begin. I have been
living in two worlds since I have been back
here; but that can't go on always, and I
must choose between one and the other."

But first, how have you been as to
health f

A great impostor, I am afraid ; but no
one except yourself will ever understand
rightly about that, and I have not attempted
to explain. First of all, you see, I have been
puzzling the doctors again. A new light of
science was brought to bear upon me before
I came down here, after we parted — a
medical friend of Colonel Danby's, that he
swears by. This man was away abroad when
I was first examined, but came back just
afterwards, and Colonel Danbv had arranged
for him to see me before we left town. He
stethoscope and sounded me in every sort
of w 7 ay, and had the satisfaction at last of
declaring all the other doctors to have been
entirely in the wrong. He quite reassured

poor Colonel Danby, and said there was
nothing in the nature of disease about me.
One lung was abnormally small, that was all.
They were both quite healthy. All the doctors
were right, and all wrong, of course, but
they had not the clue to the mystery. At
all events, it made my plans all the more easy
of fulfilment, and there seemed no desperate
hurry about anything, so I was the less
opposed in regard to coming back here for a
time than I should have been if I had been
thought in imminent peril."

The conversation was taking place in
Edith's own room, whither she had carried
off Mrs. Malcolm on her arrival, after interviews
of politeness with Mr. Kinseyle and
Miss Barkley. The window, which commanded
a wide prospect over level country,
was fitted up as the boudoir department of
the room, and here the two ladies were settled
in comfortable chairs with a small table
between them.

It's a humble imitation of your bow-window
at Richmond, you see," Edith had
said when they first came in.

"It is very nice, but " then Mrs.

Malcolm had asked if anything had happened,
and their more serious talk had
begun.

"But tell me at once' Mrs. Malcolm said,
in answer to Edith's somewhat equivocal
statement, "how you really are as to health.
Do you know anything that goes against the
last report ?"

Dear Marian, Mr. Marston's achievement
was quite successful. The last doctor
was right at the time, but it does not follow
he will always remain right. There are
queer complications to be considered about
so eccentric a person as myself."

Already, while she was speaking, Mrs.
Malcolm noticed her glance wander about
the room once or twice, and now she was
looking out over the country as if something
had attracted her attention there.

Are you seeing anything, Edith ?"

I am always seeing now," Edith replied.
It is perfectly wonderful how populous the
world is, and not merely with the shapes and
shades of people, but with spectral buildings
and trees that have existed in reality sometime
ago. There used to be an old Bo man

encampment on the very site of this house,
and I can see it dimly all round us now, with
the soldiers and horses o^oing and coming
have sat here for hours and watched them.
This window is like a box at a theatre forme,
and this house swarms with animated
shadows — if you understand — not the spirits
of the people who have lived here, but the
impressions they have left behind them in
this teeming picture-gallery that the eyes of
the flesh do not see."

"And how has it been at Kinseyle
Court r

u At Kinseyle Court it has been glorious. I
can get out of myself — out of this bodily self
altogether there, and pass into perfect union

with our Guardian. Day after day, if you

understand, I have put myself to sleep in the
old green chair, and then I have rushed into
union with what we used to call the Spirit
Queen, and have looked back upon my everyday
self, considering what to do with it, and
very much tempted sometimes, I can tell
you, to let it alone altogether, and be bothered
about it no more."

Oh, Edith !"

'You remember all that Mr. Marston
used to explain about our Guardian, Marian.
She is our Guardian Spirit in one sense, but
then she is not separate or different from us,
as one living person would be separate or
different from another. I do not want you to
look upon this" — touching herself lightly with
the tips of her fingers — " as the spirit you
have been reverencing; and this me, this phase
of me, is not of course anything of the kind ;
but when I rejoin her there, she and I are one.
She is just what Mr. Marston used to call it —
my Higher Self."

How has it all come upon you with such
wonderful vividness ?"

Because of what Mr. Marston did, though
he did not mean to do exactly that. Do you
remember, Marian, how I said to you before
we last separated, that I felt as if I was going
to burst some sort of shell % Well, now the
shell is burst, and the energy Mr. Marston
put into my body, meaning to give me a new
lease of physical life, has been transmuted to
something better, just because I was so much
more impressed by the absolute nobleness of
his conduct in the whole matter than by the

pleasure of being restored to health and
strength. He understands that now, and will
not be disappointed if his work bears a different
sort of fruit from that he meant it to bear
at first "

How do you know ?" Mrs. Malcolm said ;
for Edith had spoken in a tone of calm confidence
that seemed to imply more than a
mere vague trust that things might be as she
said.

He told me so yesterday —-though I don't
mean that he told me in words, the same as
if he had been still in this life. You will
understand, Marian, if you think of it. When
I am properly united with my true self, of
course I am in a state which corresponds to
the state into which our friend has also passed.
Naturally I can exchange thoughts and share
feelings with him, as I can also with your
own dear Higher Self, Marian — don't you

oil

see s

"You have rushed forward into such astounding
developments, Edith, that I can
hardly follow you, even in imagination."

It sounds mystic and unintelligible, perhaps,
but it has all come to be so perfectly

simple and straightforward to me, that I am
sure you will understand it too. And vet,
you know, you must not think of us as so
many isolated people going about in our
Higher Selves on the spirit plane of nature.
There is something very curious about that.
When I look at my Higher Self from the body
with clairvoyant sight, of course there, you
understand, is the Spirit Queen of my former
visions in a definite shape, radiant and beautiful
; but when I fly to her, then I am all
thought and feeling, and in the most intimate
relations with the thoughts and feelings of
that other centre of thought and feeling we
have been in the habit of calling Mr. Mars ton,
as with others also. Whenever I appear in the
future to you, I shall appear in the shape you
have been used to, only much plainer and
clearer, and more companionable."

Oh, Edith, darling, what you say makes
me see that you mean to go away !"

Mrs. Malcolm drew up her chair to Edith's,
and put her face down upon the girl's
shoulder,

Edith soothed and caressed her, reversing
the relations that had generally existed

between them, in which Mrs. Malcolm had, as
it were, played the part of the stronger and
wiser friend.

"Dear," she said, "don't you see it must
be so 'i Knowing all I know now, and with
the consciousness so vivid as I have described
to you of what the other life open to me is
like, how can I possibly go on with this ? If
it had all been different, I might have been
bound to stop. But in the natural course of
things my life ought to have run out about
now. It would have been with me as it was
with my mother. Nobody knew she was ill
till she was on the point of death. Then it
was a hurried good-bye, and all the trouble
was over. The natural thing with me has
been that if I had clung very desperately to
life I might, through our friend's sacrifice,
have circumvented my proper destiny."

You may x be right, Edith, and wisest,
but, oh ! it will be such a wrench forme."


'• That's the sad trouble of it. And it will
be a wrench of a different kind for others,
too. Next to you, poor papa in his quiet
way will feel it most."

r ' And your husband that was to have
been."

I'm very, very sorry to have been the
cause of trouble ; but the mysteries of these
things are too intricate to understand fully.
I only know this much, that if it had not
been for Mr. Marston my marriage would
have been intercepted just as certainly as it
will be. If I could have foreseen everything,
of course I would never have let things
develop as they did. But still I know, for
it has been shown to me, that in the long
run the sorrow, such as it will be, that
Colonel Danby will feel, will do him more
good than a little transitory spell of pleasure
in having me for a wife. We are not really
akin in nature."

It was a hard trial to Mrs. Malcolm to
answer Mr. Kinseyle's inquiries, when he
sought a little private talk with her during
the evening about Edith's condition, and the
prospects of her marriage. Hard even to sit
at dinner and fall in with the gay humour
Edith endeavoured to throw into the conversation,
mixed with great tenderness towards
her father and poor "B.," whose mission, by

any view of the situation, was fading so
rapidly into nothingness. Edith had concerned
herself very anxiously for Miss
Barkley's future, which she had made her
father promise to provide for satisfactorily
out of means which, as she pointed out, could
easily be spared by her, though the precise
way in which she would be able to spare them
was left in some obscurity ; but " B." was too
sincerely distressed at the break-up of her
long intimacy with her pupil to look forward
with much joy to her independence, and was
ready to subside into a tearful hopefulness
about the impending separation on small
provocation.

She seems well'' Mr. Kinseyle had said,
when speaking to Mrs. Malcolm apart, "but
there is something about her that alarms me.
I do not know why. She seems so exalted in
feeling, and yet to dwell so little on the
future."

She has an intensely spiritual nature'
Mrs. Malcolm answered vaguely ; " and then
again she feels, no doubt, that she is bidding
a sort of farewell to you and her old
home."

She makes me think of her mother continually.
I don't know wiry, though even her
dear mother was not her equal in beauty and
intelligence ; but her mother was very loving,
and Edith has seemed so gentle and sweet
of late. She has always been that in one
way — a dear, faultless girl — but there is
something about her now that seems to bring
back her mother to my fancy, and I never
properly valued her, I think, till I lost
her."

I suppose it is inevitable that you should
lose her, too, in another way, and if it is best
for her happiness "

Of course, I would not be selfish about
it ; but I wonder will she be properly valued
and cherished."

Mr. Kinseyle, I am sure she will be."
Mrs. Malcolm could hardly control herself,
but there was enough in the mere notion that
a serious change was impending to justify the
solemnity of her tone, and Mr. Kinseyle took
the assurance in its simplest signification.

Edith and she drove over to Kinseyle
Court the following afternoon in the little
pony-phaeton. Mrs. Malcolm had been

telling her about the prospect of a happy
settlement at last for Terra and George, and
Edith gaily applauded herself for having
brought that result about.

'• I haven't been altogether useless to my
fellow creatures after all, Marian, have I ?"
she said. " How curiously all our destinies
have been linked up together, haven't they ?
I should have been nothing without you to
set my feet upon the right path, and without
me your brother would never have got his
happiness, and Terra's life would have been
wrecked."

But I didn't know where the path was
leading you to, Edith. Forgive me for being
so selfish, dear, but my heart is bleeding at

every pore, and I can't help it."

My own Marian, I am going to see if I

can't do something to heal it this afternoon."
Edith, tell me one thing. The strain is

greater than I can bear. When — when is it

to be?"

When am I going to say good-bye V

Edith was driving the little carriage, and her

hands were occupied, but she nestled her

head for a moment up against Mrs. Malcolm's

shoulder, and said with a bright smile, (t Not
till you give me leave to go, dear. There,
you have my fate in your own keeping."

She would not make her meaning more
explicit, but she assured Mrs. Malcolm that,
at all events, there was to be no sudden
wrench that day. " Don't be apprehensive,
dear. Everything shall be made as easy for
you as possible."

I can't treat the whole business as a
tragedy," she went on shortly afterwards.
I know you are in pain, but, indeed, I do
see so clearly beyond. Marian, if I led a
horrid, stupid, conventional life, I might drift
away from you a thousand times further than
I shall drift as things will be. We are in
perfect sympathy and union as it is, and you
only have to wait a bit and come too. But
I am sure you will be happier about it all
presently."

They left the phaeton in the care of Mr.
Squires at the lodge, and walked up the
avenue to the quiet old house.

Don't you feel the magnetism, Marian ?"
Edith asked, as they shut themselves into
the library.

My senses are all confused, and my sight
is blurred."

You will be better directly. Wait a bit.
I am getting to be something of a mesmerist
in my turn. Sit you down here." And she
put Mrs. Malcolm into the corner of a couch
in the library commanding a view of the
door leading into " the Countess's Study."

We used to fill the place with such influences,"
Edith said, " in the Countess's
day, that it is still a sort of psychic sponge,
and we can squeeze out all sorts of effects
from the atmosphere."

She kissed Mrs. Malcolm on the forehead,
and stroked her head and brooded over her
for a little, and asked her if she did not feel
better.

You make me adore you, Edith, as if you
were my Guardian herself ; but I don't know
that that makes me feel more reconciled."

M Well, stop where you are. I am not
going out of your sight ; but I am going to
have a nap in my own green chair over
there."

She went into the inner room, and sat
down in the chair she pointed out.

vol. ii. 3 7

You'll promise me to wait patiently for a
little while, won't you ? and I will promise
you to bring myself round again presently."

Yes, dear."

Edith gave a sigh of relief as she settled
low down in the corner of her chair, with
her head propped on a pillow, and sank into
a motionless stupor. But as Mrs. Malcolm
gazed upon her, she seemed to see her figure
gradually surrounded by a sort of mist, and
through her strained emotions came back
upon her heart the rapt feeling of ecstasy
with which the presence of her Guardian
Spirit had always been greeted. By degrees
the mist intensified and shone as if with a
white brilliancy of its own, and interposed
itself before the form of the sleeping gir].
Then, as Mrs. Malcolm leaned forward in
eager excitement, the shape settled into that
of the radiant figure she was familiar with in
snowy drapery, but far more vivid and distinct
than she had ever seen it before, with
bare arms and feet, and surmounted with the
old diaphanous veil, through which — so faint
and thin it was — she seemed already to divine
the well-known and well-loved features. The

spirit-figure came forward and stood for a
moment in the doorway, and then, lifting one
hand to her head, drew away the cloudy
gauze from her face.

Edith, it is yourself, my darling I" Mrs.
Malcolm cried.

The spirit-figure came forward with beautiful
exalted smile upon her face. Mrs. Malcolm's
clairvoyant faculties were now in full play ;
and in the way she knew by old experience,
though no sound that would have been
audible to coarser ears was made, she heard
the words spoken to her.

'• Dear Marian, yes, it is I, and I shall
often come to you — almost whenever you
]ike. You have been so good in doing
always all I have asked you, when I could
only make myself half known to you. We
will have many a talk together now, face to
face and much more openly. You have come
to know me piecemeal up to now ; but it will
be my real self you will commune with in
future."

Forgive me, my guardian angel, if I
have fought against your will in anything."

You have got so fond of the casket," the

37—2

spirit said, with a wave of her hand towards
the inner room, and with no reproachful tone,
but rather, as it were, in gentle excuse for
the weakness Mrs. Malcolm confessed. She
stood quite close up to the couch now, and
Mrs. Malcolm was leaning back with her
head almost enveloped in the snowy drapery.
Mrs. Malcolm followed the direction of her
hand, and saw the bodily form lying motionless
in the chair.

It is a lovely casket."
"But it cannot hold all of me that craves
your love. And now you shall sleep too fora
while, and we will be even more together
than we are at this moment."

In losing consciousness of her physical
surroundings, as Mrs. Malcolm leaned back,
her eyes fixed and her whole soul concentrated
on the face of the beautiful spirit, she
never for a moment seemed to lose consciousness
of her ; but by degrees — or rather without
noticing the degrees, and yet not suddenly —
she seemed to float into a state of beatitude
in which she and the spirit were together in an
intimacy which blended them almost into one
being. Side by side with her, in a union

closer than the closest earthly embrace, and
with thrilling emotions of ecstasy — keener
and more intense even than the strong love
of her waking consciousness — she seemed to
pass away into regions of infinite distance
and splendour, and, without putting her ideas
into the slow concatenation of words and
phrases, to drink in a sense of the larger existence
to which she was thus introduced, and of
the relative insignificance of the faintly remembered
joys and pain of the physical state
of life so left behind. As her thoughts turned
to one or the other of the stronger interests
of her earthly life, these seemed vitalized
before her. As she thought of her brother,
he was there beside her, and seemed to be
welcoming her to the new realm she was exploring,
as if he already belonged to it — and
as she thought of Marston, she suddenly
found herself face to face with him, recognising
him instantly as the friend she had
known so long, but as a glorified presentation
of himself, with all the old weariness of existence
and the stains of sorrow washed out of
his nature, and a look of supreme happiness
in his wide-open eyes — a glowing consciousness

of Edith's presence which, filling his
whole existence with rapture as it did, yet
left him able none the less joyously to greet
her and share with her the sense of love for
the object of their double devotion. There
was no perception of hurry in the progress
of all this ; on the contrary, a sense of long,
calm durability in their delight, and the panorama
of a new nature round them was not
neglected, but surveyed as it were by all three
with the feeling that they were now in final
security as regards their companionship, and
in a position to take interest in minor things
at leisure. Some impression, too, of her
earlier life on earth came back to her, and
the corresponding vibrations of emotion were
taken up in their turn — always in tune, as it
were, to the dominant note of her new condition
— her close identity with Edith. She
did not measure time as it passed ; but the
pain that had gnawed at her heart all that
morning died quite away, as though it had
never been felt, and her soul was refreshed,
so that the recollection that there had once
been a kind of sadness somehow associated in
her emotions with Edith was almost difficult

to recover, when the spirit which was Edith,
and yet seemed almost a part of herself, came
at last to be emphasised again before her sight
as a being external to herself. Not losing
sight of her, but gradually taking in as well
the impressions of the scene then around her,
she was aware again of the library at Kin-style
Court.

You are not leaving me V she said.

"Of course not, dear. We shall be always
together, really, only there is something to
be done, don't you remember, for the others.
It is only turning your attention away from
me for a little while."

She was awake again now, and understood
the situation ; but the spirit was still beside
her, and the rapture of her influence in her
heart, cleansed for the time of its distress and
trembling apprehensions.

I had forgotten the burden of life, but it
will not be so hard to bear now."

You will know now I am ready waiting
for you, will you not ? — even though sometimes
for awhile you do not see me."
\j

Where have we been, Edith % It has
seemed to me a great way off, and that we

have been away a very long time — a gloriously
long time. I am altogether refreshed,
as if by a sound sleep after fatigue*'

You must compare notes, and ask her
when she wakes," and the spirit again
pointed to the inner room, where Mrs.
Malcolm's glance, following her gesture, saw
the sleeping, bodily Edith as before.

Her ! But Edith, dearest, this is you ?"

And so without unfaithfulness in love tome
you will come to be a little less anxious
about the casket, will you not ?"

To do what you tell me is my supreme
joy and desire."

The spirit bent over her, and pulsations of
intense emotion seemed to sweep across her
soul in waves, and then, still smiling and
waving her hand in a light farewell, as if to
imply that the good-bye was only for a little
while, she passed back up the steps and
through the doorway, and enveloped in the
white folds of her drapery the sleeping figure
in the chair. Mrs. Malcolm had the feeling
in her ears that the words came back to her,
Stay where you are a moment longer," and
then, passing beyond Edith's form, the spirit

seemed to grow indistinct, and float upward,
and away, and disappear.

Almost directly Edith stirred in her chair,
then sat up and swept her hand across her
eyes, and then looked across to Mrs. Malcolm
and smiled.

•• Edith, darling, may I come to you
now ?" She got up as she spoke, and came
across to the door. Edith held out her hands
with a brio-ht look of welcome. Mrs. malcolm
came up and knelt by her side, and put
her arms round her without speaking.

Do you remember everything V Edith
asked.

Every moment — every look. What an
ineffable wonder it all is !"

I'm better worth your friendship that
way, am I not, Marian ?"

My dearest, where your soul is centred
for the time, that is the phase of you to which
my love clings. As you are now, you wear
in my eyes the glory of your higher state,
and as you are then, you are filled w T with your
own sweet loveliness."

And you are more reconciled to the
situation now, are you not, Marian V 9

"I have been looking at it so long from
the other side, dear, I have lost for a little
the sense of pain it must give from this side.
But I am reconciled, dearest, in one way — I
am resigned, and accept what must be, submissively."


The trial for you is that you will seem
separated from me, no matter what I try
to do to soften the impression, while I shall
never be conscious of being separated from
you at all. But in real truth, even from
your point of view. I shall be more with you
than if I had been living in the flesh, away
from you most of my time, in all parts of
Europe. People talk very stupidly about
the separations of death. The separations of
life are often quite as complete, and much
more so than the other separation may be."

But tell me, Edith, dearest, are you conscious,
as you sit there, of your power to
enter on the other life as you please ? What
was it that floated away and left you just
now ¥'

I know I can get back into union with
that higher part of me when I choose now,
but it is she who knows all the rest. You

see, this is the unnatural state for me to be in
now. I ought to be gone, and I am kept in
bodily life by a sort of effort. The machinery
is going with an energy that does not properly
belong to it. As soon as all restraint
is thrown off it will run down with a whirr,
like a watch with the spring broken."

Even now Mrs. Malcolm could not repress
a little shudder at the idea.
Edith laughed.

I tell you," she said, " I feel elated about
it myself, and I want you to share my good
spirits. Of course, poor dear, you have got
to bear all the disagreeable, and, worst of all,
to help poor papa to bear them. You will
judge how far it will be possible to get him
to realize all you have been through to-day.
I think he will understand it in a great
measure, but I shall never be able to visit
and console him, because he would not seeme
in that state as you can. But I am
going to say some things to him beforehand
that will prepare him to believe you."

THE HIGHER SELF.

She found an opportunity of doing so that
evening, when Mr. Kinseyle asked some
question as to how they had spent the day.

Over at the Court a good deal, papa
dear. I have been indoctrinating Mrs.
Malcolm with my love of the place."

You ought to get your husband to rent
it, or borrow it, from the Miltenhams," suggested
Mr. Kinseyle, " and make part of it
habitable. Then you might stay there sometimes."


Poor old Court ! I don't think I should
welcome the idea of having it turned into a
modern dwelling, where common-place people
would congregate to have breakfast and
dinner. It would take all the poetry out of
the place if it were used for anything but to
dream in and see visions."

I hope you have been dreaming pleasant
dreams there, and seeing visions
of a bright life before you, my dear.
Where have you been laying the scenes of
them r

Ah, so you want to consult the oracle
after all, papa, and find out what is going to
happen ? You would come to have faith in
my prophetic sight if my visions should come
true, wouldn't you, papa ?"

k ' I'm afraid my imagination is not poetic
enough for the sort of faith you mean. I
would not shut out belief in any demonstrated
truth, however new or strange, but
poetic imaginings, however vivid, do not
easily link themselves on to the kind of tests
that constitute a demonstration."

*' That's true ; and I, with plenty of fancies
of my own, I am not practical enough to
bring them to a focus for you. Mrs. Malcolm
would be better able to do that. I think,
papa dear, I must put you in her hands, and
make you her pupil. I am sure she could
explain things far better than I can."

Perhaps Mrs. Malcolm might think herself
better employed in other ways than in

wasting her explanations on so prosaic a
person as I."

Well, I can't appoint the time now ;
while she and I are together here I want the
whole of her time to myself. But do you
remember this, papa dear, whenever you have
*an opportunity of discussing my fancies in a
really serious and searching way with Mrs.
Malcolm, that she will be talking my sentiments,
you know, infinitely better expressed.
That's really a happy idea."

Keeping to the bright tone of gaiety in
which she had already been speaking, or
rather, assuming a solemnity of manner that
belonged to one of the varieties of her old
familiar gaiety, which would sometimes
express itself in a half jesting stateliness, she
added slowly, and with one hand extended —

I lay it as an injunction upon you, papa
as a parting injunction mind, which has aL
the immense importance of a serious occasion,
to believe all that Mrs. Malcolm will tell you
about me, whenever you two may be consoling
yourselves for my absence by talking of me.
Whatever she says to you I confirm, recollect."


Mr. Kinseyle listened with a kindly smile,
treating the words as so much airy trifling,
but ready to fall in with them, however, to
please his daughter.

To hear is to obey."

I will improve on that declaration, loyal
and satisfactory as far as it goes. To remember
will be to obey. But mind you, do not
forget. What is the date, and the hour,
and the minute ?"

Insisting on the realization of her whim,
the exact moment was ascertained.

Put it down, papa. Where is your
pocket-book ?"

A .capital memory is one of my few
good points, dear," said Mr. Kinseyle, affecting
laziness good-humouredly.

And a perfect craze for having my own
way exactly, one of my numerous bad ones,"
replied Edith. " Produce the book, papa,
this moment."

The book was produced, and coming round
to the back of the sofa on which he was
sitting, looking over his shoulder with her
arms round his neck, he entered the memorandum
at her dictation. " To remember

that I have made a promise to Edith on the
17th day of September, at forty-nine minutes
past seven o'clock."

That will do," said Edith contentedly,
giving him a kiss ; while Mrs. Malcolm, to
conceal emotions she could not easily control,
got up from her seat, and went over to the
window, as if to look out at the darkening
landscape.

I'm a perfect angel for good temper''
remarked Edith, keeping up the tone of the
situation, " when people do precisely what I
tell them."

Mr. Kinseyle went away to write shortly
after his, and Mrs. Malcolm sat beside Edith,
holding her in a clinging embrace, and giving
w T ay to the feelings that had been pent up
during the little scene that had just passed.
: Forgive me, Edith darling ; I am not
rebellious, but I can't help crying. It is so
sweet to have you with me in this way."

It is sweeter still in the other way."

"Whichever form is present, that is the
best."

They made no pretence of passing the
evening with any sort of occupation, music,

or reading. They simply sat side by side alone
together, not talking much about the impending
change, or much about anything indeed,
though every now and then Edith's clairvoyant
senses, which were operating with
great intensity, led her to speak, not only of
appearances she noticed round about them,
but of the scenes in which Terra and George
Ferrars — he in London, and she in the North
found themselves at that moment, and even
of stray bits of conversation in which they
were concerned. At last they parted for the
night, and Mrs. Malcolm would have liked to
ask some question about what they should
be doing the folio wi ng day, but dared not.

Jt was long before she slept; and her bosom
ached with sadness as the hours crept by
slowly. She could hardly refrain from getting
up and going to Edith's room to sit by the
girl's bedside, if she should be sleeping, or to
watch with her if she should be awake. But
her restless grief calmed down at last, and in
the sleep which came upon her, though she
hardly seemed to lose consciousness of her
room or the impending change, her pain all
passed away, and the well-known thrill of

vol. ii. 38

spiritual rapture swept over her weary senses.
She felt the glorified spirit of Edith beside
her, even as she lay in a state of semi-slumber,
consciously refraining from the least
movement, lest the conditions of that enchanting
experience should be disturbed.
She was summoned to wake presently, however,
by the voice which spoke to her inner
ear :

Look up, Marian. I am not going to
slip away from you."

By virtue of a radiance which appealed to
the clairvoyant sense she was as plainly visible
as she had been in the afternoon, and even
the room, which had been nearly dark before,
was faintly illuminated for Mrs. Malcolm's
perceptions, through some mysterious sympathy
of her inner and outer faculties.

Dearest, I was afraid to move, lest I
should have been only dreaming."

I could have taken your inner self away
with me without waking you up, and we will
go away together presently, if you like ; but I
was obliged to talk to you a little this way
first, because I made you a promise."

"Yes."

But first you do not want to go into the
other room now, and sit by the bedside, do

you?"

Of course not while you are here."

Just so — and Marian, dear, I am tired ot
the other room, and do not want to go back
there either. You will not make me, will
you?

I see your meaning, but I am too much
enraptured with you near me in this way, to
feel any sadness in it. Surely I am ready to
bear my part of the inevitable pain, and
willingly, for your sake."

"You will feel while I am talking to you
in this way that there is no question of my
abandoning you — nor of any real separation.
I am not asking your leave to go away from
you, but merely to keep as I am now ; and,
dearest, I tell you we will often and often be
together."

Let it be as you will, dearest. I give my
consent."

"That's right, my own Marian." The
radiant figure seemed to grow brighter and
more substantial even than before, and bending
over Mrs. Malcolm, embraced and kissed

38—2

her. " That's so much better so," she said ;
'• and now, do you see any change in me ?"

I think you look a little brighter and
lovelier even than ever."

And that is the change you have been so
frightened of."

Is it finally accomplished, then V

That's over, dear, and the machinery I
want no more has run down. Come away
with me for awhile, and share my freedom
and delight."

Oh, darling ! can't you take me at once
and for always to be like yourself?"

Not just } r et ; but that will come ; and
promise me meanwhile, you will not be distrustful
and impatient."

You will forgive mere weakness, clear,
won't you ?"

You cannot have a thought that will
need forgiveness from me, Marian ; but it
will be easiest for me to be with you visibly
when you are most trustful and patient."

It seemed to Mrs. Malcolm, when the
morning came, that she had passed through
years of time, and that the bodily Edith was
a beautiful memory rather than a fact of

yesterday. The real Edith came back with
her from their spiritual wanderings together,
and sat by her bedside and talked with her
when she woke ; and they waited together
till they felt a foreshadowing of the early
alarm which was certain to stir the house but
too soon.

And now you may bid me good-bye,"
said Edith, " for a little while. It is hardly
good-bye from me at all, for I shall scarcely
be conscious of missing any part of you from
the Higher Self that will be always with
me. I shall be none the less with you because
I shall be also with the one other person
who has earned so thoroughly the right
to blend his existence with mine."

Happy Sydney !" said Mrs. Malcolm.
Give him my love."

THE END.

Billing & SONS. PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

cr

Jttr. ^ebtoaB's publications

GEORGE Medway,
15, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN, LONDON

1886.

In crown 8vo., in French grey trapper. Price 6s.
A few copies on Large Paper. Price 10s. 6d.

The Bibliography of Swinburne ;

A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL LIST, ARRANGED IN CHRONOLOGICAL

ORDER, OF THE PUBLISHED WRITINGS

IN VERSE AND PROSE

OF

Algerian CHARLES SWINBURNE,
(1857-1884).

This Bibliography commences with the brief-lived College Magazine, to
which Mr. Swinburne was one of the chief contributors when an undergraduate
at Oxford in 1867-8. Besides a careful enumeration and description
of the first editions of all his separately published volumes and pamphlets inverse
and prose, the original appearance is duly noted of every poem, prose
article, or letter, contributed to any journal or magazine (eg., Once a Week,
The Spectator, The Cornwall Magazine, The Morning Star, The Fortnightly Review,
The Examiner, The Dark Blue, The Academy, The Athenaeum, The Tatler,
Belgravia, The Gentleman's Mono zinc. La Publique des Lettres, Le Rappel, The
Glasgow University Magazine, The Daily Telegraph, etc., etc), whether collected
or uncollected. Among other entries will be found a remarkable novel,
published in instalments, and never issued in a separate form, and several
productions in verse not generally known to be from Mr. Swinburne's pen.
The whole forms a copious and it is believed approximately complete record
of a remarkable and brilliant literary career, extending already over a quarter
of a century.

* ONLY 250 COPIES PRINTED.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

HINTS TO COLLECTORS

OP ORIGINAL EDITIONS OF
THE WORKS OP

William Makepeace Thackeray.

BY

CHARLES Plumper JOHNSON.

Printed on hand-made paper and bound in vellum. Crown Svo., 6s.

The Edition is limited to fire hundred and fifty copies,
twenty-fire of which are on large paper.

A guide to those who are great admirers of Thackeray, and are collecting
first editions of his works. The dainty little volume, hound in parchment
and printed on hand-made paper, is very concise and convenient in form ;
on each page is an exact copy of the title-page of the work mentioned thereon,
a collation of pages and illustrations, useful hints on the differences in editions,

with other matters indispensable to collectors Altogether it

represents a large amount of labour and experience." — The Spectator.

"Those who remember with pain having seen the original yellow backs of
Thackeray's works knocked to pieces and neglected years ago, may be recommended
to read Mr. C. P. Johnson's 'Hints to Collectors"— The Saturday
Review.

. . . . Mr. Johnson has evidently done his work with so much loving care
that we feel entire confidence in his statements. The prices that he has
affixed in every case form a valuable feature of the volume, which has been
produced in a manner worthy of its subject-matter." — The Academy.

"The list of works which Mr. Johnson supplies is likely to be of high interest
to Thackeray collectors. His preliminary remarks go beyond this not very
narrow circle, and have a value for all collectors of modern works." — Notes
and Queries.

It is choicely printed at the Chadwick Press ; and the author, Mr.
Charles Plumper Johnson, treats the subject with evident knowledge and
enthusiasm. . It is not a Thackeray Bibliography, but a careful and
minute description of the first issues, with full collations and statement of
the probable cost. . . . Mr. Johnson addresses collectors, but is in addition
a sincere admirer of the greatest satirist of the century." — Book-Lore.

". . . . This genuine contribution to the Bibliography of Thackeray will be
invaluable to all collectors of the great novelist's works, and to all who treasure
an 'edition princeps' the account here given of the titles and characteristics of
the first issues will form a trustworthy guide. . . . The special features
which will enable the purchaser at once to settle any question of authenticity
in copies offered for sale are carefully collated"— The Publishes Circular.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

HINTS TO COLLECTORS

OF ORIGINAL EDITIONS OP
THE WORKS OF

Charles Dickens.

BY

CHARLES Plumper JOHNSON.

Printed on hand-made paper, and bound in vellum.
Crown Svo., 6s.

The Edition is limited to five hundred and fifty copies, fifty of
ivhich are on large paper.

Enthusiastic admirers of Dickens are greatly beholden to Mr. C- P. Johnson
for his useful and interesting 'Hints to Collectors of Original Editions of
the Works of Charles Dickens' (Medway). The book is a companion to the
similar guide to collectors of Thackeray's first editions, is compiled with the
like care, and produced with the like finish and taste." — The Saturday Review.

This is a sister volume to the ' Hints to Collectors of First Editions of
Thackeray,' which we noticed a month or two ago. The works of Dickens,
with a few notable ' Dickensiana,' make up fifty-eight numbers and
"Mr. Johnson has further augmented the present volume with a list of thirty-six
plays founded on Dickens's works, and another list of twenty-three
published portraits of Dickens. As we are unable to detect any slips in his
work, we must content ourselves with thanking him for the correctness of
his annotations. It is unnecessary to repeat our praise of the elegant format
of these books "the Academy.

These two elegantly produced little books, printed on hand-made paper
and bound in vellum, should be welcomed by the intending collector of the
works of the two authors under treatment, and the more experienced bibliographer
will find the verbatim reproductions of the original title-pages not

without use For the purpose of checking the correct numbers of

these illustrations, verifying the collations, and detecting possible frauds . . .
Mr. Johnson's books are unique. The ' Hints,' moreover, incorporated in his
prefaces. . . . and the ' Notes ' appended to each entry are serviceable, and
often shrewd ; indeed, the whole labour, evidently one of love, bestowed
upon the books is exceptionally accurate and commendable, and we hope to
welcome Mr. Johnson at no distant date as a bibliographer of a more pretentious
subject." — Time.

George REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

In crown 8vo., 2 vols., cloth. Price 6s.

The Valley of Sore.

BY

GERTRUDE M. GEORGE.

With a Critical Introduction by Richard Herne Shepherd.

There is in the book a high and pure moral and a distinct conception of
character. . . . The dramatis persona are in reality strongly individual,
and surprise one with their inconsistencies just as real human
beings do. . . . There is something powerful in the way in which the reader
is made to feel both the reality and the entrust worthiness of his (the hero's)
religious fervour, and the character of the atheist, Graham, is not less strongly
and definitely conceived. . . . It is a work that shows imagination and
moral insight, and we shall look with much anticipation for another from
the same hand." — Contemporary Review.

"The characters are clearly defined, the situations are strong, and the
interest evoked by them is considerable. The women in particular are
admirably drawn"— Athenaeum.

Henry Estate, the hero, is a study of no slight psychological interest.
It is the development of this character for good and for evil, through
the diverse influence of friends and circumstances that Miss George
has portrayed with singular vigour and skilful analysis. . . . It is impossible
to read this story without wonderment at the maturity and self-restraint
of its style, and at the rare beauty and pathos, mingled with strength, which
mark every page"— Literary World.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
In demy 8vo., with Illustrative Plates. Price Is.

Chirognomancy;

Or, Indications of Temperament and Aptitudes Manifested by the
Form and Texture of the Thumb and Fingers.

BT

ROSA BATJGHAN.

Miss Baughan has already established her fame as a writer upon occult
subjects, and what she has to say is so very clear and so easily verified that it
comes with the weight of authority." — Lady's Pictorial.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

REDWAY's SHILLING SERIES, VOL. III.

An edition de luxe, in demy 18mo.

Tobacco Talk and Smokers 5 Gossip,

An Amusing Miscellany of Fact and Anecdote relating to

The Great Plant " in all its Forms and Uses, including

a Selection from Nicotian Literature.

1 ' One of the best books of gossip we have met f i >r some time. . It is
literally crammed full from beginning to end of its 14S pages with well-selected
anecdotes, poems, and excerpts from tobacco literature and history." — Graphic.

"The smoker should be grateful to the compilers of this pretty little
volume. . . . Xo smoker should be without it, and anti-tobacconists have
only to turn over its leaves to be converted." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"Something to please smokers ; and non-smokers may be interested in
tracing the effect of tobacco— the fatal, fragrant herb— on our Literature." —
literary World.

GEORGE REDWAY, TORE STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

In crown 8vo., parchment. Price 3s. 6d.

The Anatomy of Tobacco ;

Smoking Methodised, Divided, and Considered after a New
Fashion.

BY

LEOLINUS SILTJRIENSIS.

"A very clever and amusing parody of the metaphysical treatises once in
fashion. Every smoker will be pleased with this volume." — Notes and Queries.

We have here a most excellent piece of fooling, evidently from a University
pen. . . . contains some very clever burlesques of classical modes of writing,
and a delicious parody of scholastic logic." — Literary World.

A delightful mock essay on the exoteric philosophy of the pipe and the
pipe bowl reminding one alternately of ' Melancholy' Burton and Herr
Teufelsdroch, and implying vast reading and out-of-the-way culture on the
part of the author"— Bookseller.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT Garden.

An edition de luxe, in demy 18mo. Price Is.

Confessions of an English Hachish
Eater.

"There is a sort of bizarre attraction in this fantastic little book, with its
weird, unhealthy imaginations"— Whitehall Review.

Imagination or some other faculty plays marvellous freaks in this little
book"— Lloyd's Weekly.

"A charmingly written and not less charmingly printed little volume.
The anonymous author describes his experiences in language which for
picturesqueness is worthy to rank with De Quince's celebrated sketch of the
English Opium Eater." — Lincolnshire Chronicle.

"A weird little book. . . . The author seems to have been delighted with
his dreams, and carefully explains how hachish may be made from
the resin of the common hemp plant." — Daily Chronicle.

"To be added to the literature of what is, after all, a very undesirable
subject. "Weak minds may generate a morbid curiosity if stimulated in this
direction." — Bradford Observer.

The stories told by our author have a decidedly Oriental flavour, and we
would not be surprised if some foolish individuals did endeavour to procure
some of the drug, with a view to experience the sensation described by the
writer of this clever brochure"— Edinburgh Courant.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

Monthly, One Shilling.

Walford's Antiquarian

A Magazine and Bibliographical Review.

EDITED BY

EDWARD WALFORD, Mea.

* Volumes I. to VII., Koto Ready, price 8s. 6i.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

THE ONLY PUBLISHED BIOGRAPHY OF JOHN LEECH.

An edition de luxe in demy Iso. Price Is.

John Leech,

ARTIST AND Humorist.

A BlOGKAPHICAL SKETCH.
BY

FRED. G. Kitten.

New Edition, revised.

In the absence of a fuller biography we cordially welcome Mr. Kitten's
interesting little sketch." — Notes and Queries.

The multitudinous admirers of the famous artist will find this touching
monograph well worth careful reading and preservation"— Daily Chronicle.

The very model of what such a memoir should be." — Graphic.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYEST GARDEN.

Third Edition, newly revised, in demy 8vo., ivith Illustrative Plates.
Price Is.

The Handbook of Palmistry,

Including an Account of the Doctrines of the Kabbala.

BY

R. Vaughan,

AUTHOR OF "INDICATIONS OF CHARACTER IN HANDWRITING."

It possesses a certain literary interest, for Miss Baughan shows the connection
between palmistry and the doctrines of the Kabbala." — Graphic

Miss Rosa Baughan, for many years known as one of the most expert
proficient in this branch of science, has as much claim to consideration as
any writer on the subject." — Sussex Daily Nevis.

People who wish to believe in palmistry, or the science of reading character
from the marks of the hand," says the Daily News, in an article devoted
to the discussion of this topic, "will be interested in a handbook of the
subject by Miss Baughan, published by Mr. Medway."

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, CONTEXT GARDEN.

EBEIEZEE JONES'S POEMS.

Impost 8vo., cloth, old style. Price 5s.

Studies of Sensation and Event.

Poems by Ebenezer Jones.
Edited, Prefaced, and Annotated by Richard Herne Shepherd.

With Memorial Notices of the Author by Sumner Jones
and W. J. Linton.

A new Edition. With Photographic Portrait of the Poet.

This remarkable poet affords nearly the most striking instance of neglected
genius in our modern school of poetry. His poems are full of vivid
disorderly power." — D. G. Rossetti.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

In demy Svo., elegantly printed on Dutch hand-made paper, and
bound in parchment-paper cover. Price Is.

The Scope and Charm of Antiquarian
Study.

BY

JOHN BATTY, F.R.Hist.S.,

Member of the Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical
Association.

"It forms a useful and entertaining guide to a beginner in historical
researches"— Notes and Queries.

"The author has laid it before the public in a most inviting, intelligent,
and intelligible form, and offers every incentive to the study in every department,
including Ancient Records, Manorial Court-Rolls, Heraldry, Painted
Glass, Mural Paintings, Pottery, Church Bells, Numismatics, Folk-Lore, etc.,
to each of which the attention of the student is directed. The pamphlet is
printed on a beautiful modern antique paper, appropriate to the subject of
the work"— Brighton Examiner.

"Mr. Batty, who is one of those folks Mr. Dobson styles ' gleaners aftertime,'
has clearly and concisely summed up, in the space of a few pages, all
the various objects which may legitimately be considered to come within the
scope of antiquarian study"— Academy.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

A few large-paper copies, with India proof portrait, in imperial 8vo.,
parchment . Price 7s. 6d.

An Essay on the Genius of George
Cruikshank.

"THETA" (WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY).

With all the Original Woodcut Illustrations, a New Portrait of
Cruikshank, etched by Pailthorpe, and a Prefatory Note on
Thackeray as an Art Critic, by W. E. Church, Secretary of
the Urban Club.

Thackeray's essay 'On the Genius of George Cruikshank,' reprinted from
the Westminster R( view, ifl a piece of work well calculated to drive a critic of
these days to despair. How inimitable is its touch ! At once familiar and
elegant, serious and humorous, enthusiastically appreciative, and yet just
and clear-sighted ; but, above all, what the French call personnel. It is not
the impersonal reviewer who is going through his paces . . . it is Thackeray
talking to us as few can talk— talking with apparent carelessness, even
ranibUngly, but never losing the thread of his discourse or saying a word too
much, nor ever missing a point which may help to elucidate his subject or
enhance the charm of his essay. . . . Mr. W. E. Church's prefatory note on
'Thackeray as an Art Critic' is interesting and carefully compiled." — Westminster
Review, Jan. 15th.

"As the original copy of the Westminster is now excessively rare, this,
reissue will, no doubt, be welcomed by collectors." — Birmingham Dally Mail.

Not only on account of the author, but of the object, we must welcome
most cordially this production. Every bookman knows Thackeray, and will
be glad to have this production of his which deals with art criticism — a subject
so peculiarly Thackeray's own"— The Antiquary.

"It was a pleasant and not untimely act to reprint this well-known
delightful essay. . . . th artist could have found no other commentator so
sympathetic and discriminating. . . . The new portrait of Cruikshank by
F. W. Pailthorpe is a clear, firm etching." — Th c Artist.

GEORGE RFDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

In crown Svo., cloth. Price 7s. Gd.

Theosophy, Religion, and Occult
Science.

BT

HENRY S. OLCOTT,

PRESIDENT OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

WITH GLOSSARY OF Easter WORDS.

"This book, to which we can only allot an amount of space quite incommensurate
with its intrinsic interest, is one that will appeal to the prepared
student rather than to the general reader. To anyone who has previously
made the acquaintance of such as Mr. Sinner's ' Occult World,' and ' Esoteric
Buddhism,' or has in other ways familiarised himself with the doctrines of
the so-called Theosophical Society or Brotherhood, these lectures of Colonel
Olcott's will be rich in interest and suggestiveness. The American officer is
a person of undoubted social position and unblemished personal reputation,
and his main object is not to secure belief in the reality of any ' phenomena,'
not to win a barren reputation for himself as a thaumaturgist or wonder-worker,
but to win acceptance for one of the oldest philosophies of nature
and human Life — a philosophy to which of late years the thinkers of the
West have been turning with noteworthy curiosity and interest. Of course,
should the genuineness of the phenomena in question be satisfactorily established,
there would undoubtedly be proof that the Eastern sages to whom
Colonel Olcott bears witness do possess a knowledge of the laws of the
physical universe far wider and more intimate than that which has been
laboriously acquired by the inductive science of the West ; but the theosophy
expounded in this volume is at once a theology, a metaphysic, and a sociology,
in which mere marvels, as such, occupy a quite subordinate and unimportant
position. We cannot now discuss its claims, and we will not pronounce
any opinion upon them ; we will only say that Colonel Olcott's
volume deserves and will repay the study of all readers for whom the bye-ways
of speculation have an irresistible charm"— Manchester Examiner.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYEST GARDEN.

Monthly, 2s.; Yearly Subscription, dos.

The Theosophist :

A Magazine of Oriental Philosophy, Art, Literature and Occultism.

CONDUCTED BY

H. P. BLAVATSKY.

Vols. I. to VI. Now Beady.

"Theosophy has suddenly risen to importance. . . . The movement implied
by the term Theosophy is one that cannot be adequately explained ina
few words . . . those interested in the movement, which is not to be
confounded with spiritualism, will find means of gratifying their curiosity
by procuring the back numbers of The Theosophist and a very remarkable
book call 'Isis Unveiled,' by Madame Blavatsky." — Literary World.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

NEW WORK BY JOHN H. INGRAM.

The Raven.

BY

EDGAR ALLAN POE.

With Historical and Literary Commentary. By John H.
Ingram.

Croicn 8vo., parchment, gilt top, uncut, price 6s.

"This is an interesting monograph on Poe's famous poem. First comes
the poet's own account of the genesis of the poem, with a criticism, in
which Mr. Ingram declines, very properly, we think, to accept the history
as entirely genuine. Much curious information is collected in this essay.
Then follows the poem itself, with the various readings, and then its after-history
; and after these ' Isidore,' by Albert Pike, a composition which
undoubtedly suggested the idea of ' The Raven ' to its author. Several translations
are given, two in French, one in prose, the other in rhymed verse ;
besides extracts from others, two in German and one in Latin. But perhaps
the most interesting chapter in the book is that on the ' Fabrications.' "the
Spectator.

There is no more reliable authority on the subject of Edgar Allan Poe
than Mr. John H. Ingram . . . the volume is well printed and tastefully
bound in spotless vellum, and will prove to be a work of the greatest interest
to all students of English and American literature"— The Publishers' Circular.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

NEW REALISTIC NOVEL.

620 pages, handsomely hound. Price 6s.

Leicester :

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

BY

FRANCIS W. L. ADAMS.

"Even M. Zola and Mr. George Moore would find it hard to beat Mr.
Adams's description of Rosy's death. The grimly minute narrative of
Leicester's schoolboy troubles and of his attempt to get a living when he is
discarded by his guardian is, too, of such a character as to make one regret
that Mr. Adams had not put to better use his undoubted, though undisciplined,
powers." — The Academy.

There is unquestionable power in 'Leicester.' " — The Athenaeum.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

NEW BOOK BY MISS Vaughan.

The Handbook of Physiognomy.

BY

ROSA Vaughan

Demy Svo. , wrapper, Price Is.

Contents. — Chapter 1. "The Face is the Mirror of the Soul."
II. The Forehead and Eyebrows. III. The Eyes and Eyelashes.
IV. The Nose. V. The Mouth, Teeth, Jaw, and Chin. VI. The
Hair and the Ears. VII. The Complexion. VIII. Congenial
Faces. IX. The Signatures of the Planets on the Face. X.
Pathology.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

Small ito., with Illustrations, bound in vegetable parchment.
Price 10*. 6d.

THE

Virgin of the World:

BY HERMES Mercuric TRISMEGISTUS.

A Treatise on INITIATIONS, or ASCLEPIOS ; the Definitions
of ASCLEPIOS ; FRAGMENTS of the
WRITINGS of HERMES.

TRANSLATED AND EDITED BY THE AUTHORS OP " THE PERFECT
WAT."

With an Introduction to " The Virgin of the World " by A. K.
and an Essay on " The Hermetic Books " by E. M.

It will be a most interesting study for every oculist to compare the
doctrines of the ancient Hermetic philosophy with the teaching of the
Vedantic and Buddhist systems of religious thought. The famous books of
Rennes seem to occupy, with reference to the Egyptian religion, the same
position which the Upanishads occupy in Aryan religious literature." —
The Theosophist, November, 18S5.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

In preparation.

NEW TRANSLATION OF "THE HEPTAMERON."

The "John Payne - ' Edition.

The Heptameron ;

OK,

Tales and Novels of Margaret, Queen of Navarre.

Now first done completely into English prose and verse, from the
original French, by Arthur Machin.

With an Introduction by John Payne, Translator of "The
Poems of Master Francis Villon, of Paris," "The Book of the
Thousand Nights and One Night," etc -

GEORGE REDWAY. YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

One vol., crown 8m, 400 pages. Price 6s.

A Regular Pickle

How He Sowed his Wild Oats.

BY

HENRY W. NESFIELD.

• ; Mr. Xesfield's name as an author is established on such a pleasantly sound
foundation that it is a recognised fact that, in taking up a book written by
him, the reader is in for a delightful half-hour, during which his risible and
humorous faculties will be pleasantly stimulated. The history of young
Archibald Highton Elegantly, whose fortunes we follow from the cradle to
when experience is just beginning to teach him a few wholesome lessons, is as
smart and brisk as it is possible to be." — Whitehall S

'• It will be matter for regret if the brisk and lively style of Mr. Nesfield,
who at times reminds us of Lever, should blind people to the downright
wickedness of such a perverted career as is here described." — Daily Chronicle.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent Garden.

Fourth Edition. With Engraved Frontispiece. In crovm Svo., 5s.

Cosmo de' Medici:

An Historical Tragedy. And other Poems.

BY

RICHARD HENGIST HORNE,

Author of " Orion."

This tragedy is the work of a poet and not of a playwright. Many of the
scenes abound in vigour and tragic intensity. If the structure of the drama
challenges comparison with the masterpieces of the Elizabethan stage, it is at
least not unworthy of the models which have inspired it"— Times.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.
Cap. 8vo., parchment.

Tamerlane and other Poems,

BY

EDGAR ALLAN POE.

First published at Boston in 1827, and now first republished
from a unicpie copy of the original edition, with a preface by
Richard Here Shepherd.

Mr. Swinburne has generously praised "so beautiful and valuable a little
volume, full of interest for the admirers of Poe's singular and exquisite
genius."

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COYENT GARDEN.

Just ready, in demy Svo., choicely printed, and bound in Japanese
parchment. Price 7s. 6d.

Primitive Symbolism

As Illustrated in Phallic Worship ; or, The Reproductive
Principle.

BY

The late Fodder M. WESTROPP.

With an Introduction by General Furlong, Author of
Rivers of Life."

"This work is a rrmltwm in canto of the growth and spread of Phallicism, as
we commonly call the worship of nature or fertilizing powers. I felt, when
solicited to enlarge and illustrate it on the sudden death of the lamented
author, that it would be desecration to touch so complete a compendium by
one of the most competent and soundest thinkers who have written on this
world-wide faith. None knew better or saw more clearly than Mr. Westropp
that in this oldest symbolism and worship lay the foundations of all the
goodly systems we call religions." — J. G. H. Furlong.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN'.
In large crown 8vo. Price 3s. Qd.

Citron, the Star Stricken.

Translated (Aha bereft Allah) from an ancient Arabic Manuscript.

BY

SALEM BEN TJZAIR, of Bassa.

This very remarkable book, ' Citron ' . is a bold, pungent, audacious
satire upon the ancient religious belief of the Jews. . No one can read the
book without homage to the force, the tenderness, and the never-failing skill
of its writer." — St. James's Gazette.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

MR. REDWAY's PUBLICATIONS.

Post free, price 3d.

The Literature of Occultism and

Archaeology.

Being a Catalogue

Ancient Worships.

Astrology.

Alchemy.

Animal Magnetism.

Anthropology.

Arabic.

Assassins.

Antiquities.

Ancient History.

Behmen and the Mystics.

Buddhism.

Clairvoyance.

Cabeiri.

China.

Coins.

Druids.

Dreams and Visions.

Divination.

Divining Rod.

Demonology.

Ethnology.

Egypt.

Fascination.

Flagellants.

Freemasonry.

Folk-Lore.

Gnostic.

Gems.

Ghosts.

Hindus.

Hieroglyphics and Secreting.


Herbal.
Hermetic.

India and the Hindus.
Kabbala.
Koran.
Miracles.
Mirabilaries.

of Books OX SALE relating to

Magic and Magicians.

Mysteries.

Mithraic Worship

Mesmerism.

Mythology.

Metaphysics.

Mysticism.

Neo-platonism.

Orientalist.

Obelisks.

Oracles.

Occult Sciences.

Phallic Worship.

Philology.

Persian.

Parties.

Philosophy.

Physiognomy.

Palmistry and Handwriting.

Phrenology.

Psychoneurology.

Psychometry.

Prophets.

Rosicrucians.

Round Towers.

Rabbinical.

Spiritualism.

Skeptics, Jesuits, Christians and

Quakers.
Sibyls.
Writ Symbolism.

Serpent Worship.

Secret Societies.

Somnambulism.

Travels.

Tombs.

Theosophical.

Theology and Criticism.

Witchcraft.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

In preparation.

The Praise of Ale ;

OK,

Song's, Ballads, Epigrams, and Anecdotes relating to
Beer, Malt, and Hops.

Collected and arranged by
W. MARCHANT.

KW Send for Prospectus.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent Garden.
In preparation.

Park's History and Topography of
Hampstead.

Revised and brought down to the Present Time.

BY

EDWARD WALFORD, Mea.,

Editor of " Walford's Antiquarian."

£g~ Send for Prospectus.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

Relays SHILLING SERIES,

Nearly ready, Vol. IV.

Well rises.

EDITED BY

CHARLES KENT.

A collection of all the " good things " for which the "Weller, pere
et fils, are famous — a posy culled from the pages of Pickwick and
Master Humphrey's Clock.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
Nearly ready.

The Curate's Wife.

A NOVEL.

BY

Mrs. J. E. PANTON,
Author of " Sketches in Black and White."

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent Garden.
Nearly ready.

The History of the Forty Vezirs ;

OR,

The Story of the Forty Morns and Eves,

Written in Turkish by Sheykh-Zada, and now done into English
by E. J. W. Gibe, M.R.A.S.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, Covent Garden.

In preparation.

Sea Songs and River Rhymes.

A Selection of English Verse, from Chaucer to Swinburne.

EDITED BY

sMr. DAVENPORT ADAMS.

With Etchings hy Maccabees.

This is a Collection of Poems and Passages by English Writers on
the subject of the Sea and Rivers, and covers the whole of the
ground between Spenser and Tennyson. It includes numerous
copyright Poems, for the reproduction of which the author and
publishers have given their permission.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
Nearly ready.

Essays in the Study of Folk-Songs

BY

THE COUNTESS EVELYN MARTINENGO-CESARESCO.

CONTENTS:

INTRODUCTION.

THE INSPIRATION OF DEATH IN FOLK-POETRY.

NATURE IN FOLK-SONGS.

ARMENIAN FOLK-SONGS.

VENETIAN FOLK-SONGS.

SICILIAN FOLK-SONGS.

GREEK SONGS OF CALABRIA.

FOLK-SONGS OF PROVENCE.

THE WHITE PATERNOSTER.

THE DIFFUSION OF BALLADS

SONGS FOR THE RITE OF MAY

THE IDEA OF FATE IN SOUTHERN TRADITIONS.

FOLK-LULLABIES.

FOLK-DIRGES

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

Shortly will be published in svo. handsomely printed on antique
paper, and tastefully bound. Price Is. to Subscribers.

Pope Joan

(THE FEMALE POPE).

A Historical Study. Translated from the Greek of Emmanuel
Rhodes, with Preface by

CHARLES HASTINGS College.

The subject of Pope Joan has not yet lost the interest which belongs to it,
as a fact in the province of historical criticism." — Dr. Dollivger.

THE PLAYS OF GEORGE Coleman THE YOUNGER.

The Comedies and Farces

OF

GEORGE Coleman THE YOUNGER.

Now first collected and carefully reprinted from the Original Editions,
with Annotations and Critical and Bibliographical Preface,

RICHARD HERNE SHEPHERD.

In Two Volumes.

Some of these plays have become very scarce ; and of those which have kept
the stage, the text has been more or less corrupted.

Newly-discovered POEM BY CHARLES LAMB.

Beauty and the Beast.

A Story in Verse for Children by Charles Lamb. Now first
reprinted from the Unique Original, with Preface and Notes

BY

RICHARD HERNE SHEPHERD.

Only 100 Copies printed.

GEORGE REDWAY, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

A
