»*J iwiiwi i i ,m i xwwmf. 'iffi-jim i .iUujuuBL

mrrrmrnmnu

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/saddlesabrenovel01sma

% Hotel.

BY

Hamlet SMART

AUTHOR OF " BREEZIE LANGTON," "FROM POST TO FINISH,
"BAD TO BEAT," ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON : CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited



[All Rights reserved']

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

v. I

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Q

i

CHAPTER I. page

NORTH LEACH 1

CHAPTER II.

major braddock's dinner 19

CHAPTER III.

THROWN OUT 38

CHAPTER IV.

"LINCOLN SPRING" 57

CHAPTER V.

the hunt steeplechase 76

CHAPTER VI.

SIR RONALD RADCLIFFE 94

CHAPTER VII.

FURZEDON ENTERS SOCIETY 112

CHAPTER VIII.

Lady RAMSBURY's Garden-party 131

CHAPTER IX.

A LITTLE GAME AT BILLIARDS . . 149

CHAPTER X.

IN ONSLOW GARDENS . 166

CHAPTER XI. page

A WAIF ON LIFE'S STREAM 182

CHAPTER XII.

BOB BRADDOCK'S CONDITIONS 198

CHAPTER XIII.

SEEKING A COMMISSION 216

CHAPTER XIV.

CHARLIE ON PROBATION 232

CHAPTER XV.

ENTERED FOR THE ARMY 248

CHAPTER XVI.

DEAREST FRIENDS " MAY " DIFFER 264

CHAPTER I.

NORTH LEACH.

Nestling at the foot of one of the long
undulations of the Lincolnshire wolds stood
a large, many-gabled, irregular house, a
house wont to puzzle the traveller as to
what manner of man might be its owner.
It was too big for a farmhouse, nor did it
look in the least like a rectory ; moreover,
nothing stood near it but some three or
four labourers' cottages. As you looked
closer you became conscious that the central

VOL. I. B

-«!

portion was most substantially built, and
evidently of older date than the wings,
which had apparently been added to it later.
One peculiarity about it, rather striking in a
house of this size, was that it was thatched,
neatly and very trimly thatched, no doubt,
but still that was a roof you would have
hardly expected to find on a house of this
class. North Leach, as the place was
called, had been the home of the Devereux
for certainly something like four centuries.
There they had farmed some four hundred
acres of their own so successfully that they
had now for many years rented an adjoining
farm of some seven or eight hundred acres,
a property of the great territorial magnate
of that part of Lincolnshire. This was
farming on a large scale ; but, although the
times were not so prosperous for agriculturists
as during the days of the tremendous
struggle with Napoleon, still things were
very nourishing. The farmers, albeit the
Corn Laws had been repealed, made money

hand over Land, and lived royally. Old
Tom Devereux kept so many horses of one
kind and another at North Leach that
gossip had it that Mrs. Devereux was always
asked whether she would have four greys,
"browns, chestnuts, or what not, for Doncaster
races, a festival which the Devereuxeses had
attended with the utmost regularity for
many years.

The present generation of the family had
been brought up in very different fashion
from their predecessors. Both sons had
been to Cambridge, while Lettice Devereux
had acquired everything that masters and a
fashionable school could teach her. As for
riding, there never was a Devereux that
could not ride. Both the men and women
of the family were thoroughly at home in
the saddle, and well-known as amongst the
best and boldest riders with the Brocklesbv.
In front of the house, indeed running
round three sides of it, and just beyond
the gardens and shrubberies which imme-
b2

lately surrounded it, was what was called
the paddock," a large grass-field of about
fifty acres, virgin turf which had never
known the ploughshare. Along one side of
it were various artificial fences, such as are
used for schooling purposes; for the making
of hunters was always being pursued at
North Leach with great assiduity. Neither
Tom Devereux nor his sons could be correctly
designated horse-dealers, but when
you have such a quantity of horses as were
required for the work of a farm, to say
nothing of a long string of hunters and
carriage-horses, it stands to reason that
there must necessarily be a good deal of
buying and selling connected with the
establishment. Further, there were a few
brood-mares at North Leach, and, consequently,
a certain amount of young stock,
some of which usually had to be disposed
of. There was one thing certain at the big
farm, they could utilise horseflesh in a great
number of ways, and if a horse gave no

promise of making a hunter there were
many other paths in life to which he could
be introduced.

Inside, the house was, as might be expected,
a roomy, comfortable old building,
which had been most judiciously modernised.
In the central, or original house, so
to speak, the rooms were low, with black
oak paneling, and floors to match ; but in
the wines the rooms were far more lofty,
and a very pleasant drawing-room in the
one wing was balanced by an equally comfortable
billiard-room on the oilier side of
the hall.

At the time my story opens, John Devereux,
the eldest sou, had left the University
some two years, and had steadily settled
down as his father's partner : not but what
old Tom Devereux was a hale, hearty man
of his years yet ; but men do not, as a rule,
ride quite so hard to hounds at sixty as
they do in the days of their hot youth.
"We all learn to take our pleasures more

soberly, and it is well for us, too, if we can
take our work somewhat more leisurely.
The overlooking of two such farms as North
Leach and the adjacent one, held upon
lease, involves a considerable amount of
hard work, and Tom Devereux was well-pleased
when his son settled down to follow
steadily in his footsteps. There had been
times when he had somewhat doubted the
wisdom of having allowed his sons to go to
the University — at all events, the eldest;
he had been afraid it might unsettle him,
and give him a distaste for the calling of a
yeoman farmer ; and then the old man had
thought solemnly of what was to become of
the land if there was no one to take his
place when he was gone. He was fond of
the old acres that had come down to him
through so many generations of Devereux.
He had made his money out of the land,
and respected it accordingly. Moreover, he
was as honestly proud and fond of the old
home of his family as any noble in the land

could be of the stately mansion transmitted
to him through a long line of ancestors.

A grey November day is closing in as
Lettice Devereux enters the drawing-room,
and promptly rings for tea. She is soon
seated in a comfortable armchair in front of
the glowing fire, in lazy enjoyment of that
luxury. A sharp gallop with the hounds
that morning has induced a pleasant languor,
which, now that she has changed her
dress, she feels justified in indulging in.
She is already half-asleep, when the door
opens abruptly, and her brother, in well-splashed
boots and well-stained pink, enters
the room.

u Holloa, Lettice," he exclaimed, " what
became of you ? You didn't come to grief
of any kind with the young one, did you ?
But I missed you just after that rattling
burst we had in the morning ; and though
we were lucky enough to find an afternoon
fox, who gave us a very decent run, I never
caught sight of your habit again."

"No, John," rejoined the girl laughing,
"and I will tell you why. That four-year-old
has the makings of as good a hunter as
we have got in the stable. He carried me
beautifully, and made never a mistake at his
fences all the morning. But, when we trotted
off to look for that second fox, he began to
blunder a good deal. And the reason was
obvious, the horse was tired; quite reason
enough for taking him home. We all know
nothing breaks the heart of a young one so
much as asking him to go on when he is
tired."

"Ah ! you really think well of the young
one then, do you ? " said John Devereux
with evident interest, as he sipped his tea.

"I do," replied Lettice, "and, what is
more, I have an idea that he has a great
turn of speed. I think it would be quite
worth your while at the end of the hunting-season
to try him. I think you will find
that he is rather above hunter class."

We shall see," replied John. "Anyway,

your schooling will go a great way towards
the completion of his education. Have you
heard from Charlie, and when he is coming
down ? "

Next week. Do you know anything of
this Mr. Furzedon that he is bringing with
him ? "

No. You see, although Charlie and I
certainly just were together at Cambridge, I
was a good bit before his time. I w as leaving
just as he came up, and during the term
we were there together our sets were very
different. As for this fellow, Purzedon, I
never heard of him, but he is evidently a
great pal of Charlie's ; at all events he can
ride a bit, and therefore we shall have no
trouble about making him happy here, as
long as the horses hold out ; and, if he wants
a breather after partridges, goodness knows
we've plenty of them, although it takes hard
walking to pick up a few brace now."

I've no doubt we can make it pleasant
enough for Mr. Furzedon," rejoined Lettice.

I am bound to say that most of the friends
you and Charlie ask here generally seem
excessively pleased with the amusements we
provide for them, and I have very little
doubt Mr. Furzedon will fall into our
grooves quite as naturally as the rest of
them."

Well, now I'm off," rejoined John

Devereux, " to exchange my dirty boots,

&c, for more civilised garments." And so

saying, he left his sister to enjoy her second

cup of tea, and indulge in dreamy reflection.

Miss Devereux was so far very well satisfied
with her lot in life. A high-spirited girl
of twenty, disposed to make the best of
everything, she found her home-life very
enjoyable. There was always plenty to
amuse her about the farm, and, although
North Leach was rather an isolated residence,
yet people in those parts had generally
full stables, and made little of distances,
and thought nothing of a ten or
twelve mile drive to a country ball, or other

revel. Balls, it is true, were not very numerous
; but then Lettice, though she could
throw her heart and soul into a dance, was
by no means hungry for such entertainments.
As for the winter time, the prevalent feeling
in those parts was, as Whyte Melville puts
it, that " the business of life was to hunt
every day;" and Lettice dearly loved a good
gallop. As she sat lazily there in front of
the fire, she was speculating a good deal on
the return of her favourite brother. She
was very fond of John, but his quiet, sedate
manner did not accord with her own mirth -
loving nature, like Charlie's. John was some
six or seven years older than herself, but
might have been, from the grave, serious
way in which he took both his work and his
pleasure, a score of years her senior. It was
difficult to work John up to great enthusiasm
about anything ; his cool head never seemed
to lose its balance for one moment; such
high spirits as at times possessed herself and
Charlie never ran away with John. She did

not trouble her head very much about this
Mr. Eurzedon, although her brother had been
very full of him during the last few months.
Truth to tell, she was thinking more about
how well her horse had carried her than
anything else.

Sitting in the sitting-room of a quiet
lodging in Duke Street, smoking a short pipe,
was a fair-haired blue-eyed young fellow,
gazing into the fire, and evidently deeply
absorbed in thought — thoughts not of the
pleasantness, apparently, to judge from the
knit brows and somewhat serious aspect of
the young face.

What an ass I have been," muttered
Charlie Devereux as he puffed savagely at
his pipe. " I wish to Heaven I'd never let
Eurzedon persuade me to go to Newmarket.
I have had a bet before, of course, but I
never went regularly in for it till this time,
and three such meetings as I've had are
enough to break any one ; indeed, if it hadn't
been for Eurzedon' s help, I should have been

unable to settle. Bad form, too, borrowing
money from a pal, and, as to paying him,
there's only one elinor for it. I must sell
the hunters. It is rough, but, as he is coming
down to North Leach to hunt with me, I
suppose he'll let me have two or three
months of them before the sacrifice. However,
even then, if I'm bid a good price I
shall have to take it. I wonder whether
they have anything at home they will let
me have the riding of."

None knew better than Charlie that the
big London dealers always had their eye
upon North Leach. Many a letter did Tom
Devereux get in the course of the season to
know whether he had a hunter or two that
he was disposed to part with. The dealers
knew very well that when a horse from
North Leach was guaranteed a made hunter,
they could perfectly rely that it was so.
And for an animal of that description a
London dealer invariably has a market.
There are plenty of his wealthy customers

who would always sooner trust to his judgment
than their own, and have no objection
to pay the extra price.

"Well," thought Charlie with all the
elasticity of youth, " it will be very jolly to
have a real good gossip with Lettice, and to
have a good time with the Brocklesbys. I
never think hunting so good anywhere as it
is in my ' ain countrey.' " Here his reflections
were interrupted by a sharp knock
at the door, and the appearance of a tall
dark young man, with a florid countenance
and slightly Semitic nose.

What, Charlie, all in the downs ! " he
said; " what nonsense ! It is no use being
down in your luck because you've had a
facer, besides, it's all squared up now. Let's
dine together, have a bottle of champagne,
and then go off to the theatre. I've got all
my business done in London, and am good to
go down to North Leach with you whenever
you like, and what's more we ought not to
lose such beautifully open weather as this."

So the two dined at Limmer's, and the
bottle of champagne, as was only natural,
expanded into two, and then they adjourned
to the Strand Theatre, and were convulsed
with laughter at one of the burlesques
which characterised those palmy days of the
Strand. I am writing of a good many years
ago, when night-houses existed in the Hay-market,
and in pursuit of that very questionable
experience, the seeing of life, it
was deemed incumbent on the young men
of the day to drop into two or three before
returning home. Inferior alcohol, and the
most dubious company, male and female,
was all the entertainment that these dens
afforded, but then it was the proper thing
to do, and in our younger days there
are very few of us who do not deem that
sufficient reason for the committal of any
absurdity.

Purzedon and Charlie Devereux, of course,
thought it necessary to have a lobster or
some oysters at one of these houses, and, as

they sallied out after having their supper, a
dilapidated man suddenly exclaimed : " Ah,
Furzedon — I beg pardon, Mr. Purzedon —
you're good I'm sure to stand a sovereign to
an old pal who is down in his luck."

Eurzedon's eyes gleamed dangerously in
the gaslight for a moment as he retorted in
stern measured tones, " I don't know who
you are, hut I do know that you'll get never
a sixpence from me to-night."

"D'ye hear him, mates?" replied the
dilapidated one, addressing some three or
four similar birds of ill-omen, who were
hanging about the entrance of the house in
question, " Pretty conduct this to expect
from a fellow who was your intimate friend,
and for whom you did some tolerably dirty
work no very short time ago."

Shame, shame! " cried the ragged chorus,
why don't you stand to the gentleman now
he is clown in his luck ? " Keenly alive,
these supporters of the sturdy mendicant,
to the probability of u glasses round," should

he succeed in extorting that sovereign from
the " swell."

Close up, Charlie," said Eurzedon in a
low voice, " these curs are going to rush us,
and see what they can make in turning our
pockets out. Just follow my lead. As soon
as that scoundrel comes up with his whining
petition again, I shall let him have it hot.
Hit out at once all you know, and we shall
be through them and into a hansom in less
than two minutes. In the meantime do as
I do." And Mr. Eurzedon rapidly buttoned
his overcoat up tightly. Another moment,
and the suppliant for relief advanced with
an impudent leer, and said, " Come, Mr.
Eurzedon, we don't part like this ; I'm not
going to want a sovereign while your
pockets are well lined."

Ah ! you think so," replied Eurzedon,
with a low laugh. " I told you you should
get nothing from me to-night. I lied ; you
shall," and, taking a step forward, Eurzedon
let go his left straight and true from the

vol. i. c

shoulder, and stretched the luckless mendicant
well-nigh senseless on the pavement.
There was a rapid rush of his companions,
hut the quick, straight, determined hitting
of Furzedon and Charlie speedily dissipated
that attempt at plunder, and in another
minute the pair were driving rapidly home
to their lodgings in Duke Street.

Nothing perhaps in the episode of a mere
night-row in the Haymarket to influence
the destiny of anybody connected with this
history, and yet it is these very small events
that so often bear curiously upon our lives.
Had Furzedon given the unfortunate outcast
of the Haymarket a sovereign, instead
of a blow, it would probably have made a
considerable difference in the course of his
life.

CHAPTER II.

MAJOR BRADDOCK's DINNER.

The strangers' room at the Thermopolium
was very full, and there was much talk and
laughter going on at the various little tables
as the wine passed merrily round them ; but,
perhaps, from none did the laughter ripple
more freely than from a round table in the
middle of the room, around which half-a-dozen
men were gathered, the guests of jolly
Major Braddock. The Major was in his
element ; he was never more happy than
when giving a little dinner ; he flattered
himself that he knew how to do it, and,
what was more to the point, he did. Looking
at his rubicund face and portly figure,
cit

was difficult now to imagine the Major a
smart officer of Hussars, and yet, ten years
before, when he finally doffed the pelisse, he
was as good-looking a dragoon as ever wore
sabretache.

But a man naturally a bon vivant gives
himself free licence in the matter of good
living, and who is not given in any way to
field-sports, rapidly puts on weight after he
has turned thirty. The Major was comfortably
off, and when he sold out subsided at
once into a man about town. The giving
and partaking of little dinners entered prominently
into the scheme of his life, and it
was now well known that an invitation from
Bob Braddock was not a thing to be lightly
declined ; nor, on the other hand, w r as he a
man to whom an invitation w r as to be lightly
issued. It w T as understood through Courland
that Bob Braddock's verdict on a dinner
w r as unimpeachable, and there were someone
or two of those monachal institutions
which he specially tabooed, saying that it

was a positive insult to ask any thing buta
raw boy to partake of food within their
gates while they kept such an atrocious
cook.

"Ha-ha!" laughed the Major, and it was
one of those mellow laughs which almost
instinctively carried the hearers away with
it. " What times those were ! What constitutions
we all had in those days, and,
Heaven help us, how shamefully ignorant we
were on the subject of wine and cookery !
Just you try that champagne, Norman.
Here, waiter, get Mr. Slade a clean glass;
don't be afraid of it ; there's no gout in it,
and, even if there is, upon my soul it is worth
risking an attack for."

Norman Slade, a dark, wiry little man,
whose age defied all conjecture, filled his
glass gravely, and, as he tasted it, said :
"Yes, it's rare good stuff, but you ought to
have laid the foundation of podagra pretty
substantially by this time."

Yes, it was the Exhibition year, and

they wanted some cavalry just to show off
before the big swells who came over to see
Paxton's glass-house," continued the Major.
"So they brigaded five regiments of light
cavalry at Hounslow, and, you may guess,
with all that going on in London, that the
way us young ones streamed up to town
every day was a caution. Except the unhappy
subaltern for the day, I should think
there wasn't an officer left in any one of the
regiments."

And you were the fellows the rest of us
were paying taxes to provide for."

"Of course you were," retorted the Major.
We looked well, were full of go, and did
very well for ornamental purposes, which
was all you wanted in those days. We
didn't do so badly either in the Crimea as
long as we lasted ; the worst of it was we
were so soon used up. However, they don't
stand those sort of larks now ; do they,
Bertie?"

"Well," replied the young man addressed,

I don't think the authorities would stand
some of the things you've been recounting."

Bertie Slade was nephew to both these
gentlemen. Norman's brother had married
a Miss Braddock, and hence the connection ;
and, different as the two men were, was,
strange to say, an equal favourite with both
of them. No greater contrast than the two
brothers-in-law could be conceived. The
one, open-hearted, full of jest and story,
with the art of dining as the main pursuit
of his life. The other, a quiet, self-contained,
reticent man, whose passion was the Turf,
with a dry caustic wit of his own, who often
dribbled out a thing that brought down the
laugh of the smoking-room of the club to
which he was affiliated. Capable, too, of
biting sarcasm, if exasperated, and it was
not very difficult to move Norman Slade's
wrath.

"Have a glass of claret," said the Major,
or a glass of Madeira if you prefer it,
while I relate another reminiscence of those

times. As I have said, we all trooped up to
London pretty well every day. Well, in
those days there was a very famous supper-house
just off the Haymarket, which was
much frequented by the soldiers. Indeed,
if Her Majesty's officers, to speak metaphorically,
ever did rally round the old flag,
it was that particular supper-house in '51.
The precious institution has long since disappeared,
but, about three in the morning
in those days, you were sure to find fellows
from Woolwich, men from Hounslow, all
anxious to pick up some one to share a
hansom home. Indeed, as far as the
Hounslow division, as they called us, went,
we formed a perfect procession of hansoms ;
constantly ten or a dozen of them proceeding
in file past Hyde Park Corner on their way
to our quarters. Well, there was usually
considerable difference about the fare when
we arrived at Hounslow. The cabbies invariably
argued that they had waited a good
bit for us, and then demanded an excessive

tariff for the time we had employed them.
Now, remember the prize-ring was by no
means dead in England in those days, and
most of us had more or less learnt to use
our hands pretty smartly ; a turn-up or two
with the cabman became at last quite an
orthodox finish to the evening, and we
seldom came home without a fare or two
being referred to the arbitration of battle.
No need to tell you that the London cabman
is pretty wide awake, and, as our fellows invariably
went on the double-ors quits system,
the Hounslow lot were soon taken up by
some pretty clever bruisers amongst them.
Well, it was a bright June morning, about
five o'clock, and the cabman were in great
feather ; they had sent down that night a
couple of semi-professionals, and two or
three of our best men had been handsomely
polished off. We'd a big empty barrack-room,
containing nothing but some empty
wine-cases, where these little differences were
adjusted. They were glove-fights, you must

remember, so that our fellows didn't get so
dreadfully marked as you might suppose.
It was all over, the successful cabman had
carried away their double fares, and were
gone, when the attention of those who were
left of us was suddenly called to Jerry
Moliere. I and one or two others recollected
seeing him at the beginning of the
scrimmage struggling with a small cabman
in the corner, but we had all been
too absorbed in the fight to take further
note of his proceedings. Now he was
sitting on a champagne-case mopping his
brows with a cambric handkerchief, and
exclaiming in maundering tones, ' Oh,
dear, what a time I've had of it ! Do, for
goodness sake, get me a hammer and a few
nails, some of you fellows.' ' What's the
matter, Jerry ? ' we exclaimed ; ' what's the
matter, old man ? ' ( Oh, dear, what an
evening I've had he replied, in half-crying
tones. ' What a trouble he has been to me !
for Heaven's sake set me a hammer and

nails. { What do you want — what's the
matter ? ' we cried. ' Oh, don't,' he said,
still half weeping ; e oh, dear, what a time
I've had. You never saw such a disagreeable
little beggar.' 6 What do you mean,
Jerry— what is it?' ' The little beast,'
he replied, in a broken voice ; 4 he wouldn't
go in to the case, though I told him I wanted
to send him to my mother. It'll please the
dear old lady. But I've £sot him in at last,
thank goodness ; do help me to nail him
down at once, the discontented little brute !
I can feel him still wriggling about.' ' Do
you mean to say,' we cried, ' that you've got
a man in the case ? ' ' Got him in ?' he returned,
lugubriously, 'yes, and it has taken
me the whole night to get him there. Now
do, like good fellows, bring the nails and a
direction card.' But here we thought it was
high time to intervene. Jerry, who had
attained a high state of maudlin drunkenness,
was carried off to bed, earnestly requesting
that the case might be sent by the

first train in the morning to his mother.
Of course, we deuced soon had the top off
the case, and high time, for the small cabman
inside was quite past making any
further efforts on his own account. Indeed,
it required the help of a doctor to bring him
round, and a handsome solatium on Jerry's
part to hush up the business. Poor Jerry! A
shell at Balaklava, as I dare say some of you
know, killed as good a fellow as ever crossed
saddle 'Now, gentlemen, come along, and
we'll have a cigar and coffee downstairs."

Well, Bertie, how's the regiment getting
on ? Still in it's chronic state of difficulties
as regards ways and means, I suppose ? "

Yes," replied Gilbert Slade, laughing ;
we still hold a ten-pound note in much
veneration, but, fortunately, we are not tried
quite so high at Alder shot as they were in
the days of your Hounslow campaign. The
powers that be don't stand such incessant
running up to town — a restriction which,
though unpleasant, keeps us afloat."

Gilbert Slade was a subaltern in his
uncle's old corps, and, of course, amongst
the seniors were several who had been in
the regiment with him. Besides, the Major
never missed the annual dinner, and, indeed,
had much to say to its management. They
said at the Albion that Major Braddock was
a very fastidious gentleman, but, as the chef
added enthusiastically, "he is a judge, and
it's quite a pleasure to cook for him." So
that, one way and another, Major Braddock
had never lost touch of his old regiment,
and knew something about pretty well every
officer in it.

I suppose you'll be moving in the
spring," he said, as he lit a big cigar.

Yes," replied Gilbert ; " it's our turn to
move, and, I suppose, in April we shall goto
the Northern district ; but where I don't
exactly know — Manchester, I'm afraid."

And why afraid ? " rejoined Major Braddock.
" Merchant princes, bless you, who
know how the thing should be done. If

you play your cards properly, you ought to
manage to get your legs under the mahogany
of all the best houses, and wind up
by marrying a hundred thousand pounds.
Don't tell me, sir ! It's not often a young
fellow gets such a chance so early in life.
I can only say I regard it as sending the
regiment to play by the waters of Pactolus,
and it'll be a disgrace to the lot of you if
you ever know want afterwards."

All I know is that Manchester is not a
popular quarter with the Dragoons generally,"
rejoined Gilbert, laughing. "However,
it is by no means settled yet that that
is our destination."

61 Going on leave?" asked the Major,
dryly.

Yes — am on leave, indeed, now, though
I shall probably run back to Aldershot for a
night to arrange one or two little matters
that I left unsettled when I came away.
Then I'm going to stay for a little while
with some friends in Nottinghamshire,

where I am promised a few days with the
Revoir."

"Ah!" said the Major, "you'll have to
look lively to hold your own with the Duke's.
It's a rare country, and, if you've the luck
to throw in for good sport, you will find it
will try the hest horse in your stable to live
with them."

And then the conversation became general,
reverting to, amongst other things — as
it was apt to do in those days, what a friend
of mine used to call the great annual problem,
namely, what was to win the forthcoming
Derby, and about this there was,
needless to say, much diversity of opinion.
In these days men trouble their heads very
much less concerning the solving of that
riddle, and it is not until the race is near
at hand that much interest is manifested
about it.

Gilbert Slade was a shrewd observer, and
he noticed that, whereas the Major and the
other men had much to say about it, and

expressed their opinions freely, pooh-cooling
each other's judgment with much disdain,
Norman Slade, who, as Gilbert well
knew, had far more knowledge of the subject
than all the others put together, smoked
silently, and listened to all the talk with a
somewhat derisive smile on his countenance.
At last he was appealed to point-blank to
give them his views on the subject.

Can't, my good fellow," replied Norman,
drily ; " I haven't got any views about it
whatever. I simply say I don't know. If
you consider my advice worth anything, it
is merely that it is best let alone for the
present."

Well, Norman," said the Major, laughing,
" we certainly can't be said to have got
much out of you."

Slade simply shrugged his shoulders in
reply, and turned the conversation. Those
who knew Norman Slade were quite aware
of two things : first, that you might as well
try to extract information from an oyster

about any coming turf event as from him ;
secondly, on the rare occasions when he
did vouchsafe a hint, it was sure to be well
worth following. Perhaps Gilbert had
been benefited as much as anv man frome



such hints ; he was a great favourite with
that somewhat sarcastic uncle of his, and
he had the good sense never to trouble
him with questions about these matters.
Gilbert Slade had a very shrewd head on
his shoulders. He was a popular man in
his regiment, but there was a touch of his
uncle Norman's reticence about his character.
He most assuredly did not wear
his heart upon his sleeve, nor did he unbosom
himself quite so readily to his chums
as many men of his age do. So far, his
life at present could not be said to have
been eventful ; he had knocked about with
his regiment from one garrison to avu to
another for the last four years, had always
plenty of houses open to him in the leave-vol.

I. D

season, and enjoyed a run in London as
much as most men.

Curious," muttered Gilbert, as lie
strolled homewards, " the difference between
these two uncles of mine. As far as giving
me a dinner goes, or writing me a moderate
cheque if I got into difficulties, I've no
doubt the Major would stand to me like
a man ; but in a serious scrape I fancy
Uncle Norman would be worth a dozen of
him. Every one who knows him seems to
think he might have done anything if he
had taken the trouble to try, while as for
the Major my impression is that it is well
for him his father left him very comfortably
off. Prom all accounts he was a
rattling good fellow, but a precious bad
officer in the days of his soldiering. Ah !
well, fortunately, I need trouble neither
of them for assistance." And then Gilbert
began lazily to reflect on his coming visit
to Nottinghamshire, and speculate upon
how much fun he could get out of the

couple of hunters that he was taking down
with him. When he got hack to Limmer's
he strolled into the coffee-room. It was
tolerably late hy this time, for the smoking-conclave
at the Thermopolium had "been
of some duration, and it had been late
when they had sat down to dinner.

There were some half-dozen young fellows
in the coffee-room, solacing themselves a&
young gentlemen laden with care " arc
wont to do, according to the famous lyric.

Thought I was in for a real row tonight,
coming out of Bob Croft's," said
one. " They were a queer lot who rushed
two fellows in front of me ; but, by Jove !
they caught a brace of Tartars. I never
saw men hit out straighter or cleaner ; and
as for the leader of the gang he went down
at once from a left-hander I should have
been sorry to have caught, and his pals got
thoroughly sick of the job in less than two
minutes."

What the deuce are you boring us with
d 2

the account of a night-house row for ?
We've all seen it, and shall, doubtless, see
it again before we've done. Bertie Slade,
by Jove ! What are you doing here ? "

Well, just now," said Gilbert, as he
raised his hat, smiling, " I was listening
to your friend's account of the row which
he witnessed in the Hay market."

Oh ! there's nothing much in it, I daresay,"
replied the narrator, somewhat sulkily.
16 But Barton interfered, as he invariably
does, just before I came to the point of
the story. I never heard such a fearful
malediction as that man hurled after the
fellow who had struck him down, when he
picked himself up. I can't get the pale,
blood-stained face out of my head. He
evidently knew him, for lie cursed him byname,
and swore never to forget nor forgive
him ; vowed that his turn would come,
and that then Ralph Eurzedon might look
to himself. Never heard the name before,
and don't suppose any of you did."

The company shook their heads in ignorance,
and Gilbert, who, at all events,
considered care sufficiently dissipated for
that evening, nodded " Good-night."

CHAPTER III,

THROWN OUT.

Mr. Eurzedon was a gentleman wise far
beyond his years. What his antecedents
were previous to his arrival at the University
was a fact concerning which no one knew
anything. He never alluded in the faintest
way to his family. He seemed plentifully
supplied with money, had avowedly not the
slightest intention of taking a degree, and
conformed to the rules of his college just
sufficiently to prevent coming into serious
collision with the authorities. He spent his
money freely, but invariably with an object
in view. However off-hand his invitations
might seem, they were not so in reality ;

and never was a young man less given to
spontaneous outbursts of that description.
He was by no means proud of his progenitor,
though he admitted the old gentleman
had behaved excessively well in quitting
this world when he, Ralph, was about sixteen
years old, and leaving him very comfortably
off. He had come up to the University
with the object solely of forming a
circle of acquaintance. The men he was
civil to were all such as he thought would
prove useful to him in life. His father had
acquired his riches by the simple process of
money-lending, but Ralph Furzedon had no
idea of continuing that business, profitable
though it was. His ambition was to take a
good social position, and college was to him
a mere stepping-stone to that end. He was
fairly popular, he went in for most of the
games and diversions so much esteemed by
the undergraduates, and, if he did not distinguish
himself in any particular pursuit,
still he was passably good at many things ;

not, perhaps, a very amiable character, if
you knew him thoroughly, but he was much
too clever to let the spots on the sun be
seen. Young men are not usually suspicious,
and very few of his companions had
the slightest idea of the ingrained selfishness
of the man's nature. It never occurred to
them that the first view that anything presented
to his mind was how it "would affect
him, Palpi Furzedon.

Charlie Devereux was a very popular man,
and it suited Mr. Furzedon to become intimate
with him on that account; then, again,
young Devereux was an undoubtedly fine
horseman. Mr. Furzedon, in his far-sighted
sagacity, opined that in a few years Charlie
might have blossomed into a crack gentleman
rider. Furzedon was very fond of a
small racing speculation, when, to use his
own language, he saw his way, and he
thought that his friend might turn out useful
to him in this latter capacity later on.
Furzedon had come up to the University

late ; he had begun life for himself at the
age of eighteen, and it was only after knocking
about London for a couple of years that
he realised how very difficult it was for a
young fellow to form eligible acquaintances.
Friends, as they would term themselves,
were easy enough to make by a young gentleman
with a liberal command of money,
but, shrewd beyond his years, Ralph Furze-don
was not to be imposed upon by these
Brummagem imitations. He aspired to mix
with gentlemen, and he knew that the very
best of the acquaintance he had made had
only a doubtful status in that way. For
instance, he saw no possibility of getting
into a decent club, and that was a point
that troubled him much. It showed something
for the determination of the man's
character that, when he thoroughly awoke
to this state of things, he made up his mind
to submit to the restraints of the University,
solely to attain the end he had in view.
Mr. Furzedon did not intend to honour the

University much longer, but so far was very
well satisfied at the results of his experiment.
Purzedon and Charlie Devereux duly
carried out their programme, and arrived
at North Leach. Once settled in their
quarters and they lost no time in commencing
the serious business of liss; that
is to say, hunting at every available opportunity.
Charlie had come down rather late
for breakfast one morning. He was a terrible
sinner in that respect, and generally
"stumped up " a cover-hack in the course
of the season.

We can't wait for you, Charlie," said
Lettice. " Remember we're riding our
hunters, whilst you no doubt have sent on,
and intend riding, that luckless slave of
yours."

All right ! " rejoined Charlie, " you and
Furzedon had better jog on. I shall overtake
you before you get to Harrow Wood, I
dare say."

Charlie, perhaps, lingered rather longer

over his breakfast than he dreamt of ; but
certain it is when he turned off through a
line of gates that led down to the wood he
had seen nothing of Furzedon or his sister
on his way. He looked at his watch and
saw that he was late ; still he fancied that
the hounds had not vet left the cover. He
galloped rapidly on, and, as he came to the
next field, caught sight of a lady in difficulties
at the gate on the far side. It had
swung to, and her horse was too fidgety to
allow her to open it. Again and again did
she get it a little way open, and then her
hunter, in his impatience to get on, twitched
it out of her hand.

Pray allow me to do that for you,"
exclaimed Charlie, as he raised his hat.

Oh ! thank you so much," rejoined the
fair horsewoman. " Dandy is always troublesome
at gates, but this morning he is
behaving shamefully. You see he knows
we are late, and is so dreadfully anxious
about it."

By this time Charlie had got the gate
open, and held it while his new acquaintance
made her way through.

I was so late," she said, gaily, as they
cantered across the next field together,
"that my husband declined to wait any
longer for me. Husbands are capable of
such things at times, and I dare say you will
give the verdict against me on an occasion
of this sort. But surely," she exclaimed,
we are not riding for the next gate."

No," answered Charlie. " Bat I know
every yard of this country by heart. If we
slip through the gap at the top here, it is
nothing of a jump ; we shall find a similar
place in the next fence, which will take us
down to the top end of the cover. It's a
great cut, and, if I know anything about it,
we haven't a minute to spare. Listen!" he
exclaimed, as the f nil-throated chorus rang
musically on their ears. "Those hounds
will be away almost immediately, if they
are not already." And Charlie pressed his

Lack to a gallop, and led the way at a pretty
sharp pace in the direction he indicated.

As they cleared the fence there was a
crash of canine tongues that was a revelation
to a fox-hunter.

They are away, by Jove !" cried Charlie,
and on the far side the cover, I am afraid.
I will do my best for you, but they will take
a deal of catching. As for me, I am clean
out of it, unless by miraculous luck I
happen to pick up my hunter at the cover-side.
I've rather taken it out of my hack
already, and, though good of his kind, he is
hardly equal to catching hounds that have
slipped one."

Too true," exclaimed the lady, as they
jumped into the field adjoining the cover ;
they're gone, and apparently everybody
else."

Charlie made no reply, but sat down and
bustled his hack round the top of the cover,
his fair companion keeping close at his
heels ; but when he got to the other side,

and found nothing but a small group composed
of a couple of gamekeepers in velveteen
and half a-dozen labourers, he realised
that his prediction was only too fatally fulfilled.
There was do sign of his hunter,
and, worse still, no likelihood of his reaching
the hounds. These, indeed, were already
out of sight, and their vicinity only to be
judged by sundry red and black coats that
bobbed over the fences from time to time.
With difficulty Charlie suppressed a malediction
on his own indolence, and then,
glancing at his companion, wondered what
view she would take of it.

Ah ! " she said, half laughing, half
pouting, " we are companions in misfortune.
It is aggravating to have lost a
good gallop, and still more aggravating to
know that we have only ourselves to blame
for it. Yes," she continued, as laughter
triumphed over petulance in her mood, "weare
both victims of our own Sybaritism.
We couldn't tear ourselves from our pillows

this autumn morning, nor restrain our
appetites at the breakfast-table. What are
we to do ? "

Charlie made no reply for some few
minutes. " Lost a run," he thought, " missed
my hunter, and have got a strange demoiselle
thrown on my hands, wJiom I have no idea
what to do with."

u Catching them," he answered, at last,
is out of the question. I can only suggest
we follow leisurely on, and trust to the
chapter of accidents to fall in with them
towards the afternoon."

Very good ! " replied the lady ; " and, if
you will kindly accept the charge, I will
place myself in your hands."

They jogged along for some little time in
silence, and were now plodding along a
road which, as Charlie informed his companion,
would bring them to Markham
Gorse, a cover which, he continued to explain,
it was very probable that the fox
would make for. But on arriving at that

favourite refuge of foxes they found no
signs of the hunt ; in short, they had now
utterly lost the hounds, and were like people
adrift in the desert, as far as having any
recognised point to aim for. All inquiries
proved useless ; none of the farmers or
labourers whom Charlie questioned had seen
aught of the hounds" that day. As for the
lady, she bore her disappointment with great
equanimity, and even laughed at the fiasco.

I don't know whether you keep a hunting
diary," she said, at length. " I do :
but I don't think I shall make any entries
concerning this day."

"Well, I don't," replied Charlie; "if I
did I should simply write down, ' Was an
indolent idiot.' I've no doubt it has been
the run of the season, so far. What a fool
I shall feel when they are all talking it
over at dinner this evening ! "

You won't deem me too curious," said
his fair companion, "if I ask the name of
my fellow-sufferer ? "

M I am Charles Devereux," be replied,
and live at North Leach, where we have
been settled time out of mind."

"Devereux!" she replied. i( You are a
brother, no doubt, of that handsome Miss
Devereux who rides so well ; we are neighbours;
my husband, Major Kynaston, has
taken The Firs, as no doubt you know, for
the season."

Yes," replied Charlie, " I know the
place very well. It is about ten miles from
us. I hope you like it. The owner never
lives in it, but it is nearly always let for the
hunting season, though people don't so
much care about it in the summer time.
The fact is, it is a widely-scattered neighbourhood,
and, though we natives don't
mind the long distances between our houses,
yet strangers are apt to think them impossible."


They certainly strike me in that wise,"
replied Mrs. Kynaston laughing, "though
I suppose, after all, it doesn't matter if you

VOL I. E

have plenty of horses. But, if I mistake
not, I turn off here, and so shall no longer
be a trouble to you ? "

Yes, you are close at home, which I
only wish I was. My horse will have had
enough of it before I get him back."

Good-bye," replied Mrs. Kynaston, as
she extended her hand ; " I trust the next
time we meet it will be not to pass such
an unprofitable day."

Mrs. Kynaston laughed as she trotted
homewards. " It is a blow, a sad blow, my
dear," she muttered to herself ; " your good-looking
cavalier was blind, both to your
charms and his opportunities. There are
plenty of men I wot of who would have
thought a day well spent at Kate Kingston's
bridle-rein. This fox-hunting is a
very brutalising amusement. I don't believe
Mr. Devereux knows what I'm like
this minute. He was chafing all the way
at having lost his beloved sport. As a gentleman,
he couldn't refuse to take care of

an errant waif like myself; but I really
believe if he had come across the hounds I
should have been left to follow him as I
best might. It is fortunate I had nothing
to do with his mishap, or I veritably
believe he would never have spoken to me
again."

Mrs. Kynaston had read young Devereux
pretty accurately. Charlie was bitterly disappointed
at his misadventure. That young
gentleman, although by no means insensible
to his fair companion's charms, was an
enthusiast about hunting. As before said,
he rode well, and at twenty-one it was excusable
that he should be a little conceited
about it ; no woman's smile at present
could compare in his eyes with having had
all the best of a real good fifty minutes,
and now, after having missed all his fun,
here he was with a good many weary miles
to jog home on a tired horse, and haunted
with the idea that there had been a real
good run. And he had good grounds for so
e2

LIBRARY

J»««»«"«

thinking. He knew that they had found
and slipped away, certainly at a rare pace
to start with, as he knew from the glimpse
he had got of what might he termed the tail
of the field. The hounds and the leading
division he had never caught sight of.
Then he wondered how Eurzedou had got on.
Then came speculation as to what luck had
attended his chief rivals. Had they been
lucky in getting away ? Whom had fortune
favoured ? And who could lay claim to the
proud distinction of having been in front
throughout ? Then he began to think once
more of his late companion. " Yes," he
reflected critically, " she is a pretty woman,
and sits her horse very nicely. She was got
up, too, most correctly. I wonder whether
she is much of a horsewoman, and what sort
of a fellow Major Kynaston is. Keen, I
should say, or he wouldn't have left his wife
to follow on by herself. I don't suppose my
people know them yet, or I should have
heard Lettice speak of them. Hold up, old

man ! " he exclaimed, as his hack made an
awkward stumble, " we've only another four
miles to do now, and you shall take your
own time to do it, only don't go to sleep
over it." The hack, seemed to understand
what his master said to him, for he pricked
up his ears and proceeded of his own accord
to jog 1 on. It was probable that he awoke to
the fact that he was pretty close to his own
stable, and determined that the sooner he
got his day's work over the better. Charlie,
as he anticipated, found himself the first
home, as he had been the last to start.
That he should vent his ill-humour on the
luckless groom who had charge of the missing
hunter was only natural. The poor
fellow had done his best, but, his master not
turning up, he had had to act on his own
inspiration, and had unfortunately waited at
the wrong end of the cover. He had then
followed at a respectful distance, with three
or four second horsemen who had fallen into
the same mistake. This much only could

he tell — that the hounds had run straightaway
from him, and this by no means
assuaged the wrath of his angry master,
who, having informed him that he was a
perfect idiot, strode into the house. As the
groom remarked to his fellows, with considerable
justice, "It wasn't my fault. How
am I to know which end of a wood a fox
will break ? If Mr. Charles had only been
in time we should have changed horses all
right, and then he could have judged for
himself."

Mr. Charles Devereux that night at dinner
found that his instinct had not deceived
him. He had to face a fire of merciless
chaff about his coffee-housing proclivities.
He learnt that they had had a capital run
with their first fox, who, after an hour and
forty minutes, with only one check, had
fairly beaten them; how that they had a
capital second gallop in the afternoon after
a fox which was brought satisfactorily to
hand ; and then, after the manner of sportsmen

over their wine, they spared never a
point nor detail of the day's doings. They
quoted every village and cover they had
been near; from Bennington Scrubs to
Bubbleton Brook, not a point was spared
him ; till even Furzedon, who had gone
satisfactorily to himself through the whole
business, rather winced under this little
geographical victory. Especially cruel to
the outsiders are fox-hunters when they get
to full cry over the wine-cup 3 and recount
their wondrous exploits over Dabchick Pastures,
or some similar locality, in which
nobody but a fox-hunter or a parish doctor
ever found themselves ; and then came a
sharp cross-examination of how Charlie himself
had spent his day ; but his answers were
so curt and sulky ; and his ill-humour concerning
his mishap so very palpable, that
they very soon gave over teazing him. One
thing was curious — that the name of Mrs.
Kynaston never passed his lips ; whether it
was accident, or whether he thought the

admission would lead to further banter on
the part of his sister and Furzedon, I cant
say ; there merely remains the fact that it
was so.

CHAPTER IV.

"LINCOLN SPRING."

Lincoln Races ! The budding of the Turf
campaign, the first burst of spring for that
mysterious world which regulates its winter
by the Eating Calendar without respect to
weather or almanac; a meeting sometimes
postponed from frost and snow, but run off
as a rule in bitter weather, and yet which
attracts to it all the sport-loving denizens of
the adjoining counties, to say nothing of
that great body to whom racing is a business,
and who have been growling over the
inaction of the last two or three months.
There is money to be made at Lincoln, no
doubt, though it more often falls to the

bookmaker to gather it than to the sanguine
backer who so boldly invests his capital on
some probably half-trained horse, of whose
present form the stable have but a misty
idea. But, besides these, there are the great
hunting contingents from Yorkshire, from
Nottinghamshire, and Leicestershire. Hard
riders from the Quern, the Pytchley, and
the Beale, from the Fitzwilliam, from the
Brocklesby, and the Revoir — all interested
in the Open Steeplechase, the Hunt, and
the Gone Away Plate, for any of which it
is probable that some of these, or, for the
matter of that, half-a-dozen other well-known
packs, may have sent a competitor.

On a drag, opposite the Grand Stand,
were congregated most of the people mentioned
in the previous chapter. North
Leach had come down a strong party to
the races. Old Tom Devereux and all his
family were there, and with them were the
Kynastons, for by this time a considerable
intimacy had sprung up between the two

houses ; and then, had not both Tom Devereux
and Major Kynaston got a horse
running? The old man was as keen as
possible to see his son ride the winner, both
of the Hunt Steeplechase and the Gone
Away Plate. In the former the Devereuxeses
had entered their four-year-old, of which
Miss Lettice had thought so highly at the
beginning of the hunting-season, while the
Major had picked up something a little
before Christmas, that he had ascertained
was pretty fast, and had hunted it just
sufficiently to qualify. The North Leach
people, indeed, knew very little about the
Major's mysterious purchase. Seen him,
of course, they had ; but, whether Mrs.
Kynaston was on his back or the Major, he
was never seen prominently, if there was
anything like a run. The lady, although
she rode nicely, was by no means given to
hard riding. She enjoyed the sport in her
own way, and by no means aspired to
eclipse others of her sex that might be

out, by witching horsemanship. Charlie
Devereux was by this time amongst Mrs.
Kynaston's devoted admirers, and she had
not a few. One special trait that recommended
her much in that young gentleman's
eyes was that she did not want a
lead," or expect to be taken care of after
the find, and always bade him not waste his
chance of a good start by dallying too long
at her side. About the Major nobody in
that country knew much, although there
were plenty of people in the London world
that could have told a good deal concerning
him.

Lounging on the lawn, his hands buried
in the pockets of his ulster, was Gilbert
Slade; he had come across with some friends
from the country-house in which he was
staying to see the first big handicap of the
season run, and at this moment one of his
friends came up, and suggested that they
should go up to the top of the stand and seethe
race. Gilbert readily assented.

It's a grind to get there," he said, " but
there's nowhere that you can see the race so
well from;" and the two accordingly toiled
up the narrow little stone staircase that led
to the roof, which they found already thickly
peopled.

How are you, Jocelyn ? " said a tall,
good-looking fellow, standing a pace or two
in advance of them. " Bitter cold weather,
isn't it? Have you got a wager on this
affair ? "

ISo," replied the other, " it isn't often I
indulge in that wise."

Nor I," was the reply ; " if I ever did,
I should have been tempted this time ; the
joint owners of the Siren are wonderfully
confident, and have insisted on all our
leading people about here backing their
jacket."

"It is too late now," said Gilbert, w or
else I would have had a trifle on that tip."

The horses were already mustering under
the starter's hand. Two or three false starts,

and then they get off on moderately level
terms.

Well, the owners of the Siren should be
satisfied," exclaimed the tall young fellow
who had before addressed them. " The only
thing they were afraid of was their mare
getting a bad start, but she's got off right in

front."

Eor once the owners of the hot favourite
had proved right in their calculations concerning
a big handicap; before they had
gone a quarter of a mile the Siren had got
a clean lead of her field, and from that out,
she never caused her backers one moment's
uneasiness. She went on improving her
lead, was never even approached, and finally
ran home an easy winner by half-a-dozen
lengths.

Well," said Gilbert, " I never saw such
a procession as that in my life in a big race ;
and, now it is over, I vote we forage for
food. A north-east wind makes one confoundedly
hungry."

Ah ! I'm afraid you'll have to rough it
rather in that respect. There is not that
magnificent choice of luncheon that generally
presents itself at Ascot."

They made their way slowly down the
crowded staircase, and went into the
luncheon-room, but it was thronged ; and
there was apparently small chance of obtaining
even standing room at one of the
tables.

"Ah ! " said Jocelyn, laughing, " you will
have to control your unholy appetite for
some time longer. "When we do get an
opening, it will be useless ; these locusts
will have devoured everything."

Let's come away," rejoined Gilbert with
a smile. " It's too much for a man in my
state to watch his fellow-creatures feed."
And the two young men pushed their way
downstairs with the determination of assuaging
their hunger with tobacco.

They had barely reached the centre of the
lawn, when a portly clean-shaven gentleman,

with rosy cheeks and a good-humoured
smile on his face, suddenly exclaimed,
Good-day, Mr. Jocelyn, I hope you like
the chestnut ? "

Best horse I've got in my stable, Devereux
. I only wish I could afford to come to
you for another. You never miss Lincoln

m

Spring, do you ? "

*' No, nor the Autumn either; but w T eve
come down a large party this time. We're
going to have a shy at a couple of the local
races. There's a coach-load of us all come
to see Charlie win, w r e hope. By the way,
gentlemen, will you have a glass of champagne
? or mebhe you've had no lunch ; I
know by old experience that it's pretty
rough-and-tumble work getting anything to
eat in there."

Well, we couldn't, Devereux, and that's
all about it," replied Jocelyn laughing ; " if
you can give us anything, you'd be doing
a real charity."

Come along," said the old gentleman,

with a jolly laugh. " The missus, when she
has an outing, likes to do it comfortable,
and you may depend upon it, when she gets
on the coach it's well victualled."

Manna in the wilderness, by Jove,"
whispered Gilbert as they followed the old
gentleman across to his drag, where the
debris of luncheon still lingered.

The two gentlemen were quickly introduced
to the ladies, and hospitable Mrs.
Devereux insisted upon their coming up on
the drag, and having their luncheon u quite
comfortable."

I think we have met before, Mr. Slade,"
said Mrs. Kynaston, with a bright smile.

"Of course," replied Gilbert, "I remember
you at Lady Rarusbury's garden-party."

"Ah, Mr. Slade," said the lady laughing,
I'll give you one bit of advice. There is
nothing so dangerous as remembering too
much. It couldn't have been at Lady
Rarnsbury's, because I don't know her, but
I came down to one of the big Aldershot

VOL. I. F

field-days last summer, and you lunched us
all in your mess-room before we returned to
town. The care Mr. Slade took of me on
that occasion made a deeper impression on
me than my charms did upon him."

"To he sure; very stupid of me," rejoined
Gilbert, coolly, " that's the worst of a
London season : one does get places muddled
up so."

"Ah, you'll remember me another time.
I'm about to embalm myself in your memory.
Let me give you some of this pigeon-pie,
and next time we meet you'll murmur
to yourself, ' She fed me when I was
hungry.' "

Thank you," rejoined Gilbert, laughing,
and if you could only guess how hungry I
am, Mrs. Devereux. I am perfectly ashamed
of my appetite."

Can't pay me a better compliment," rejoined
that lady. "I know, then, my cook
has done her duty."

Neither Jocelyn nor Gilbert Slade were in

any hurry to quit their new quarters. They
could see there just as well as from the
Grand Stand; while, as for the ladies,
swathed in furs and rugs, there was no
temptation for them to leave their seats.
Old Tom Devereux was backwards and forwards
between the drag and the betting-lawn
continuously. He had a large and
numerous acquaintance, and was constantly
shaking hands and exchanging jokes with
old friends. Suddenly Gilbert's attention
was diverted from the lively conversation he
was holding with Mrs. Kynaston by an exclamation
from Miss Devereux.

Good gracious ! Mr. Purzedon," she
cried; " I never dreamt of seeing you here."

Ah ! I was bound to come down," he
replied, " to see how the horse that carried
you so well last winter acquits himself in
the Hunt Steeplechase ; and, from the hint
I got in town a day or two ago, I thought I
might find it profitable to get here in time
for the big handicap."
F 2

And I hope it has proved so," said Miss
Devereux.

Yes, thank you'' he replied ; " I had a
very good race. No, nothing, thank yon,
Mrs. Devereux ; I did all that at the Great
Northern, before I came up to the course."

Purzedon," thought Gilbert, " where
was it I heard that name only the other
day ? Ah ! '' he muttered to himself, " in
Limmer's Coffee Boom. That's the man
they mentioned as having felled an unhappy
wretch in the Haymarket, who hurled after
him a malediction so terrible as to have
attracted the attention of those fellows who
saw it, and they were a festive lot, to whom
a row in those parts was no novelty ; " and
then Gilbert dismissed the matter from his
mind, and turned once more to his fair
companion.

And now the numbers went up for the
Gone Away Plate, and there was great excitement
on the top of the drag to see
Charlie's performance. Both Mrs. Kingston

and Lettice had a small venture on the
success of Charlie's mount, which they regarded
as already won. Could they have
overheard a conversation between the Major
and a seedy, sinister individual at the back
of the betting-ring, they would not have
felt quite so sanguine about the result.

Ah, Major," said the latter, " I knows
your horse well. Knew him before you
had hinij and you're quite right ; he's just
the sort to pick up these hunter's stakes on
the flat ; but, I warn you, you haven't got
it all your own way this time. There's
another party trying just the same game.
I've no idea which of you has got the best
of it ; but remember there's another horse
in the race which is no more a hunter than

yours is "

■

You're sure of what you say, Prance?"
Quite," rejoined the other.
Confound it. I've got a good bit of
money on this."

Well, you tell your jockey to keep his

eye on The Decoy. And now, Major, times
are hard, and I give you my word that information
is worth a sovereign to you."

The Major paused for a second, and then
unbuttoned his overcoat, took the coin from
his waistcoat pocket, and handed it to his
companion.

Thank you, sir," replied the tout, for
such he was. " I've always run straight
with you, Major, and I 7 m quite sure of what
I tell you. Yours and The Decoy will run
first and second, and it'll be a race between
'em. I hope, for your sake, sir, yours is
good enough to win," and thereupon Mr.
Prance vanished with the utmost celerity,
and immediately invested the sovereign he
had just received with a ready-money bookmaker
on Decoy.

Great was the excitement on the top of
the drag as the competitors for the Gone
Away Plate, after galloping three quarters
of the distance, turned into the straight, and
the Major's black jacket was seen with a

clear lead, and a cry arose from the Stand of
Rob Roy wins ! " " Rob Roy in a canter ! "
But Mr. Prance bad been only too correct
in his diagnosis of the race.

As he came away from his field, Charlie
looked anxiously right and left for The
Decoy, as the Major at the last moment had
told him that that was the one quarter from
which he might apprehend danger. But
the gentleman on The Decoy was no neophyte
; he had ridden many more races, was
far more cunning of fence than Charlie, and
quite aware that he had nothing but Rob
Roy to beat. Trusting to Charlie's inexperience,
the minute he came away he followed
directly in his, track; the former,
casting anxious glances right and left, could
see nothing of his dangerous adversary, and,
though somewhat astonished at the nonappearance
of The Decoy, Charlie raced
steadily home. Suddenly, just before reaching
the Stand, like a flash, he saw the white
jacket and crimson belt of Mr. Sexton's

mare at his girths. It flurried him a little,
no doubt, as the being caught close to home
does most men in their first public race;
still, he kept his head fairly well, and it
wasn't till he saw that his opponent had
more than collared him opposite to the
Stand that he sat down and began riding
in earnest. But it was no use, his crafty
opponent had already got a neck the best
of him, and, to say nothing of being on,
perhaps, the better horse, was certainly the
more experienced " finisher " of the pair.
He, too, began to ride his horse in resolute
fashion, and not only held the advantage
he had gained, but improved it to a good
half-length before he passed tue winning-post.


There was wailing, half earnest and half
laughing, on the top of the drag at the
defeat of their champion. There were bitter
maledictions on the part of the Major as to
what he was pleased to term Mr. Sexton's
unscrupulous conduct, totally ignoring that

Mr. Sexton had only succeeded, and that he
had failed ; that otherwise their proceedings
had been precisely similar ; and there was
considerable hilarity on the part of Mr.
Prance, who had succeeded in adding three
sovereigns to his store.

Very bad, Miss Devereux," said Slade ;
but we can only say that your brother,

www J

though defeated, was not disgraced. No
man could have made a better struggle for
it, and we can only say that it was his ill-luck
to encounter an enemy a little too good
for him."

I doubt whether Gilbert's uncle, Norman,
would have given quite so merciful a verdict.
I think he would have said, " He
rides very nicely for a young one, but the
old practitioner did him at the finish If he
had made the most of the commanding position
he held when he got into the straight, I
should doubt The Decoy ever having caught
him."

Good-bye, Mrs. Devereux," said Slade.

Of course we shall see you all here tomorrow,
and then I trust your own jacket
will be hailed the winner. In the meantime,
Miss Devereux, let me thank you for
your kind ness to a couple of famishing wayfarers.
And now here come your horses,
and we must say good-bye."

Good-bye," returned the hospitable old
lady. " Good-bye, Mr. Jocelyn. Remember,
I shall expect you both to luncheon tomorrow."


And, with a cordial adieu all round, the
two young men took their departure.

Deuced good find that," said Gilbert, ashe
and Jocelyn walked back to Lincoln.
Very pleasant people, and they have
entertained us royally. What are they
exactly?"

People who have farmed in the Wolds
for centuries, and on a large scale. The old
man is held in the highest respect, and
almost treated as a squire by the scattered
gentlemen around him. As for Mrs. Kingston,

you apparently know more about her
than I do. I hope they'll pull off the Hunt
Steeplechase tomorrow, for they were evidently
sadly disappointed about being beaten
to-day."

CHAPTER V.

THE HUNT STEEPLECHASE.

The next day was a great improvement on
its predecessor : the wind was still keen,
but there was very little of it, and a bright
sun not only threw out considerable heat,
but also had an enlivening effect on people's
spirits. Mr. Prance, in high feather at his
yesterday's success over the Gone Away
Plate, was, for a gentleman of his saturnine
temperament, quite genial, and was laughing
and jesting with two or three of his
mates — racecourse hangers-on — who, like
himself, picked up a precarious living ina
by no means strait-laced fashion. Suddenly
the man's manner was utterly transformed

; he started as if he had been stung ;
and, had anv of those who had witnessed the
fracas in the Haymarket been present to
see, they would have noticed the same look
of implacable resentment which had so
arrested their attention on that evening.
The cause was not far to seek, for they
had just passed Mr. Purzedon strolling leisurely
up the course with a friend.

Ah ! " muttered Mr. Prance to himself,
let me ever have the chance, and if I
don't give you quittance in full, Mr. Furze-don,
for all I owe you, may my hand and
tongue be numb for ever in this world !"

Mr. Purzedon, quite unconscious of the
very questionable blessing invoked on his
head, passed on. It is doubtful whether
he would have been much perturbed at
Mr. Prance's thirst for vengeance had he
been aware of it. He was far too conscious
of his superior physical strength, to say
nothing of his infinitely superior position,
to feel any anxiety about any harm such a

man as Prance could work him. That the
cause of quarrel between the two lay deeper
than the blow he had struck him that night
outside the supper-rooms had been transparent
even to the casual spectators, but
what that was must at present remain a
matter between themselves. One of the
first persons the tout came across when he
had made his way into the inclosure was
Major Kynaston, who was carefully studying
his race-card.

"Well, sir," he said, " what I told you
yesterday was right enough ; and it was a
very close fit between yours and The
Decoy."

Yes, you were right enough, my man ;
and, change the jockeys, and it is possible
it might have been the other wav. Not
but what Mr. Devereux rode very nicely ;
still the old hand, of course, proved a little
too much for the young one. Race-riding,
like everything else, requires a lot of practice
; it was pretty well my man's first

appearance in public, while Mr. Long has
been riding for years. However, your
information was worth the sovereign'

Thank you, sir," replied Prance ; " if I
find out anything to-day I'll let you know."

The Major nodded ; he could take pretty
good care of himself on a racecourse, and
was by no means to be led away by what
he might pick up from a tout ; Prance, he
knew from former experience, was worth
listening to, and now and again, as in the
case of yesterday's race, really had come by
a bit of genuine information.

Tom Devereux's drag, it need scarcely be
said, was early drawn up opposite the Stand.
The ladies were in high spirits, and confident
in the extreme about victory to-day
in the Hunt Steeplechase. In vain Charlie
protested against such extreme confidence.
I've a good horse, I know, Lettice," he
said; "but I may meet a better, just as I
did yesterday''

It won't do, Charlie," replied the girl ;

we are bent upon returning victors to
North Leach, and mind you don't disappoint
us."

By this time the drag was surrounded by
several young men, amongst whom Gilbert
Slade, Jocelyn, and Eurzedon were prominent.


I suppose you are very fond of racing,
Miss Devereux ?" said Gilbert Slade, who
had climbed to the roof of the drag.

Fond of it?" she replied. "I can
hardly say. I know next to nothing about
it. We always take the coach to Doncaster,
and I have been there two or three times.
My father knows Lincoln races well; but
neither mother nor I ever came here before
; and this time it is in honour of
Charlie's first appearance as a rider at the
big meeting of his county,"

Then you are ignorant of the glories of
Ascot and Goodwood ?" said Slade.

Utterly," replied Miss Devereux. " I
know very little of London and its gaieties,

although, of course, I am aware what great
gatherings of fashion those two race-meetings
are. We are very plain, humdrum
people. A run to the sea when the crops are
in constitutes our summer gaiety, though
occasionally I get asked to my aunt's in
South Kensington. She is papa's sister,
you must know, and married a man who
was in some kind of business in London,
I'm sure I don't know what, but he has left
her a very comfortably off widow, and she
knows a lot of people, and I always have a
very pleasant time when I go to stay with
her."

Ah ! I dares Mrs. I beg your

pardon, what did you say your aunt's name
was?" said Slade.

I didn't mention it," rejoined Lett ice,
smiling, " but it is Mrs. Connop, and she
lives in Onslow Gardens. She is a very
bustling woman, who enjoys life keenly,
entertains herself a good deal, and goes to
everything. I have always had a very gay

vol. i. a

six weeks with her, and that's all I ever
know of London dissipation. You, I daresay,
have had years and years of it?"

I have had my fling," rejoined Slade,
quietly ; " but I am a soldier, and am very
often quartered a long way from London.
Just at present I am at Aldershot ; but we
expect to move northwards in a couple of
months, and, though I dare say I shall
manage a month or six weeks, it will belike
yourself, a mere gulp at the wine-cup,
but no draining of the goblet to the dregs ;
I only trust that we shall meet."

"I haven't been asked yet," rejoined Miss
Devereux, "and that is the first and most
important step in my London season ! But
there, the numbers are up surely for the
next race."

"Ah!" rejoined Gilbert, laughing, "I am
afraid they have just finished that race, and
we have actually been gossiping during the
contest. Never mind, it was only a small
selling affair ; and I don't suppose any of us

are really interested in anything but the
Hunt Steeplechase."

"sow," said Mrs. Kynaston, with a little
grimace, "there must be an end to all this
idle gossip. The serious business of the day
is about to commence — we have done with
the entrees, and come to the piece de resistance.
I have got a fortune on the sky-blue
jacket and white sleeves. I don't often go
in for a gamble, but I have asked Mr.
Furzedon to put me ten pounds on Pole
Star."

That's plunging with a vengeance," rejoined
Lettice, "and you ought really to
win a good deal of money. But Charlie
tells me that he has got me fifty pounds to
five about his mount."

Yes," interrupted Jocelyn, " you're entitled
to a good price, Miss Devereux. I
don't suppose even your father or your
brother are backing Pole Star heavily, and
the Fletchers are supposed to farm this race
to enjoy almost a monopoly of it. The
g2

only thing that ever puzzles us is which to
back of the two brothers, George or Jim ;
they're about equally good horsemen, and
the difficulty is to find out which is riding
the best horse."

"And what are they doing about these
formidable brothers now ? " inquired Mrs.
Kynaston.

George Fletcher's mount is first favourite,"
replied Jocelyn, "but I noticed some
very shrewd farmers taking the longer odds
about Jim's horse. Don't think me a renegade,
Miss Devereux ; I have backed your
brother, but I have also got a trifle on Jim
Fletcher."

And now the horses, having paced past
the Stand, come thundering down again in
their preliminary canter. Nothing, perhaps,
goes better than a big raking chestnut that
Charlie Devereux is handling ; the favourite
looks " fit " as hands can make him, and is
pronounced a nice " mover " by the cognoscenti,
and the men of the Midlands have

keen eyes for that sort of thing. There is a
varmint wear-and-tear look, too, about Jim
Fletcher's mount that led good judges to
think he might prove troublesome to the
winner at the finish. Still, although out of
the half score runners they were all backed
more or less, yet it was quite evident that
the Ring, as well as the backers generally,
believed in nothing but the Fletchers.
George's horse Rattle, indeed, was a hot
favourite, and Jim Fletcher's mount advanced
so rapidly in public estimation, that
when the starter mustered the horses it was
quoted at only a couple of points behind his
brother's. It is not very difficult to dispatch
a lot of horses on a three-mile race.
A few lengths, which are often never to be
recovered in a short distance on the flat, are
of very little account in the long cross-country
journey, and in a very few minutes
they are away. For the first half-mile
nothing takes a very decided lead; at the
end of that time Jim Fletcher's blue jacket

shoots decidedly to the front, and many of
his backers at once deplore their infatuation,
as they murmur,

"The favourite's the real pea, after all,
and Jim is only making running for his
brother"; and that this impression was
shared by the jockeys riding in the race
seemed probable, as Charlie Devereux and
the rest of them waited in a cluster upon
George Fletcher, who was distinguished from
his brother by wearing a red cap and belt.

In the meantime Jim sailed gaily away,
his varmint-looking steed jumping in faultless
fashion, until he had stolen a lead of
nearly a field from his opponents. Half the
distance had now been traversed, and, young
though Charlie Devereux was at the business,
it suddenly occurred to him, as it also
did to one of his companions in a bright
green jacket, that they were letting Jim
Fletcher get a very dangerous distance in
front ; he turned it over for a few seconds
in his mind, and the minute they had cleared

the next fence he shot to the front, closely
attended by the green jacket, and, a little to
his bewilderment, by George Fletcher. That
latter worthy laughed low in his beard ashe
muttered,

M It's getting about time to give the
backers of the favourite a show for their
money ; but if Jim ever lets us catch him
now he is a much bigger fool than I think
him."

Mrs. Kynaston was a lady who had seen
a stood deal of racing one wav and the
other, and, what is more, was really a very
fair judge when she did see it.

"I am afraid they have let the bluejacket
slip them," she said; " they have let him gain
such a tremendous lead, they'll never succeed
in catching him. However, Mr. Devereux
seems quite alive to the situation now."

Jim Fletcher continued to pursue the even
tenor of his way. Now and again he shot a
glance over his shoulder, but could see no
antagonist near him.

They can't intend me to come in alone,
surely," he thought.

But already Charlie, closely attended by
George Fletcher, the green jacket, and one
or two others, was rapidly diminishing the
wide gap that lay between himself and the
leader.

"Ah," exclaimed Miss Devereux, "they
will catch the black jacket now by the time
they enter the straight ! "

"Yes," said Mrs. Kynaston; "my only
fear is that he has been rather hard upon
Pole Star in doing so. and that he will find
that he has not much left in his horse just
when the pinch comes."

Miss Devereux was quite right. As Jim
Fletcher jumped the fence on to the racecourse,
his companions had begun to take
close order with him, but he still held a
four lengths' lead of Pole Star. But there
was just this difference : whereas Jim Fletcher's
horse jumped well and cleanly, Pole
Star, for the first time, fenced in slovenly

fashion. There was nothing now between
the competitors and the winning-post but a
hurdle about half-way up the straight —
nothing of a jump, but just the sort of thing
to bother a beaten horse. Charlie was still
lying second, with the green jacket waiting
at his quarters. Steadily he crept up, and
as they neared the hurdle Jim Fletcher held
a bare two lengths' lead. But there was
this difference between him and his antagonists
: he had never bustled or called
upon his horse the whole way round. Zad-
kiel, the leader, jumps it beautifully, but
Pole Star hits it heavily, and blunders
nearly on his knees, and, quickly though
Charlie recovers him, the contretemps is
fatal : before he can fairly set his horse
going again the green jacket has passed
him, and George PI etcher is alongside of
him ; but Zadkiel's rider is not the man to
throw away a chance. His horse is going
strong with him, and he comes right away
at once. Desperately though the green

jacket rides his horse he cannot get within
hail of the leader, while Charlie and George
Fletcher, after one brief call upon their
steeds, ceased riding, and finished third and
fourth respectively.

Yes," said the Major, as he watched the
race from that high hit of scaffolding, designated
as the Stand, in Tattersall's Ring, " I
was right — quite right. My dear young
friend, till you've had a good hit more practice,
it is throwing money into the fire to
back your mount. You would have about
won to-day if you had not been so completely
humbugged by those Fletchers. I
should like to know them ; they've a very
pretty idea of picking up a race. To win
with a horse that was supposed to be making
running while the field were all waiting on
the favourite is ingenious. Prance was
right. He said he couldn't make out which,
but that one of the Fletchers would take
that steeplechase for certain. I haven't
done so badly over it, but, of course, I

mustn't admit that ; they will think it rank
heresy over the way if I acknowledge to
having followed anything but the Devereux
colours."

Oh, dear," cried Miss Devereux, on the
box of the drag, " what a piece of bad luck !
I'm sure Pole Star wouldn't have been
beaten if it hadn't been for that unlucky
mistake at the last hurdle."

]So," said Mrs. Kynaston, quietly,
there's a great deal of luck in racing, and
this, unfortunately, wasn't run to suit your
brother. Better luck next time, Lettice."

Mrs. Kynaston knew a great deal better
than that. She was perfectly aware of how
the race had been run, and why Pole Star
had blundered so badly at the last hurdle—
seen it all, indeed, just as clearly as her
husband, but she was not the woman to
make herself unpleasant by insinuations of
that sort, and so they had another glass
of champagne all round, and indulged in
strong tirades against the shameful machinations
of the Fletchers, and agreed that

tricks of this description were not legitimate,
and that the Fletchers ought to be
ashamed of themselves.

People who lose their money are somewhat
apt to argue in this wise. There was
nothing inadmissible in the tactics of the
Fletchers. All that could be fairly said was
that their opponents, had they not been
rather inexperienced, would never have been
fooled by them, and yet practised jockeys
have fallen into similar error.

At this juncture Charlie Devereux appeared
at the side of the coach. " Awful
sorry, Lettice," he said. " I apologise all
round. I really think I had a pretty good
chance, but the Fletchers gammoned me
out of the race. So sorry I lost your money,
Mrs. Kynaston, but I plead guilty to having
been green as any gosling. When I recognised
the trap they had laid for us it was
too late. I had to be so hard on Pole
Star to catch Jim Fletcher that it is little
wonder my horse had had enough of it when
we got into the straight."

Never mind, Mr. Devereux, you'll ride
the winner of the Liverpool before two or
three years are over. All trades require a
little practice; and," she said, leaning over
the coach to speak to him, rt you can ride,
you know."

Charlie made no reply, but, if ever eyes
acknowledged the balm poured into wounded
vanity, his did. Men, and more especially
young men, are wont to think tenderly of
women who bind up their hurts in this wise.
Charlie concealed his feelings tolerably well,
but he felt in his heart that he had thrown
the race away, and firmly believed that, if
he had never let Jim Fletcher get more
than some ten or a dozen lengths in front of
him, he would have beaten him. And now
the horses come up, and, with many hand-shakes
and hearty wishes for meeting again,
the little party breaks up, the Devereuxeses and
Kynastons returning to North Leach, while
Gilbert Slade and Mr. Jocelyn again crossed
the Nottinghamshire border.

CHAPTER VI.

SIR RONALD RADCLIFFE.

The bitter north-east wind has at last departed,
the swallows in scores are cutting
the clear, pure, sweet air. The spring
handicaps are things of the past ; the trees
are in all the glory of their early foliage ;
and spring is fast melting into summer.

The London season is in full swing;
strawberries are rapidly becoming within
the reach of people of moderates incomes ;
the Derby has been lost and won, and Ascot
is a thing to be looked back upon with feelings
of bitter anguish, or joyous murmurs
of victory. The Row is all alive this bright
June morning, thronged with the votaries

of fashion, thronged with those who would
fain pass as such, crowded with cynics who
watch the gaudy parade with scoffing eyes.
Yes, with struggling young men, who only
wish their profession would leave them no
leisure to show there ; with men who cannot
get rid of their weariness ; with men who
have quite got rid of their money, but cling
to the gay pageant from habit, and as the
cheapest amusement that is left to them ;
young ladies, whose rosy cheeks, sparkling
eyes, and animated manner betoken that
they are new to the joys of the season ;
their more experienced sisters, with the
languid air of those who have awoke to the
knowledge that " the gilt is off the gingerbread";
veteran campaigners, both married
and single, painfully alive to the misery of
their exacting dress makers, wearily conscious
of those four new dresses for Ascot
that have produced no results ; the equestrians
canter up and down with careless
smile, as if Care never sat behind the horseman,

although young Locksley wonders
whether his hack will ever be paid for;
while Mr. Manners carries a note in his
breast-pocket from McGillup, the livery-stable
keeper, with an intimation that that
is the last mount he can be supplied with
till he, McGillup, has had something on
account.

Looking on at the queer raree-show is a
man who seldom troubles it. A slight, wiry,
clean-shaved man, with keen dark eyes and
a most determined expression about the
mouth. He stoops slightly, and his hair is
heavily shot with grey ; his dress is peculiar,
scrupulously neat, but slightly old-fashioned;
but, though Norman Slade would never have
been accused of spending much money on
his attire, yet the man would have been a
very poor judge indeed who took him for
anything but a gentleman. He has possessed
himself of a chair, and, having lighted
a cigar, sits there ruminating. He seldom
has occasion to raise his hat, for with ladies

his acquaintance seems to be very limited.
But with the other sex it is different. Nod
after nod is exchanged with Norman, and
many of those who salute him are members
of the aristocracy, or well - known men
about town. Norman Slade, although his
name figures neither in the M Peerage " nor
in Burke's " Landed Gentry," comes of a
good and perfectly well-known family ; but
it is chiefly through his passion for the Turf
and his long career about town that he has
acquired the numerous acquaintances which
he undoubtedly possesses. Men, as a rule,
like and respect, but are just a little
afraid of, Norman ; he is what is termed
thoroughly straight," a word of seat
significance on the Turf; he is an excellent
companion, full of anecdote, and can be-most
amusing when pleased with those
about him. But, as before said, he has a
rough edge to his tongue, and, if annoyed,
can be bitterly sarcastic. He has lounged
into the Park this morning to indulge in

VOL. I. H

what he calls a " think." During the past
week he has met Major Kynaston at dinner,
and it is not to he supposed that, although
he had never encountered him, a man like
Norman Slade did not know Major Kynaston
pretty well hy repute. The Major enjoyed
a reputation that even he would have
deemed it desirable to bury if possible ;
nobody could have brought any direct
charge against him, but it is equally certain
that nobody would ever have described
the Major as " thoroughly straight." He
was notoriously lucky at ecarte, and, indeed,
at cards generally, while he was equally
considered a terribly sharp practitioner in
his betting transactions.

Of all this Norman Slade was well aware ;
but what was it to him ? He would have
grinned at the idea of the Major inveigling
him into any little things to his detriment
on either card-table or race-course; but at
this dinner Major Kynaston had not only
mentioned having made the acquaintance

of Gilbert, but had very much exaggerated
the extent of their intimacy. Now Norman
was fond of his nephew, and had often said,
"Thank God, the boy is no fool;" but he
knew by repute what a very pretty and
attractive woman Mrs. Kynaston was, and
in his own vernacular he could not help
thinking that the pair might be a little
too much for any "young one," be he
never so clever. He had not heard of
Bertie for some time, and was far too good
a judge, if he really had got intimate with
these Kynastons, to interfere directly. But
he was not going to see his favourite
nephew plucked and made a fool of either ;
and it was notorious that many a plump
pigeon had emerged from the Kynaston
dovecot so utterly devoid of feathers that
his dearest friends stood aghast at the completeness
of the operation. Gilbert Slade,
however, as we know, was in no such
danger as his uncle pictured. He had seen
nothing of Mrs. Kynaston since Lincoln
h2

Races, and, though thinking her a very
pretty and pleasant woman to talk to, had
been by no means fascinated ; he did not
possess that inflammable and susceptible
temperament that is so easily smitten with
love-fever. His was one of those harder
natures, somewhat slow to feel anything of
that kind, but who, when they do succumb
to the arrow of the rosy god, are wont to
love with a strong earnestness not easily
diverted from its purpose.

But, though Gilbert Slade would have
freely acknowledged the charms of either
Mrs. Kynaston or Miss Devereux, yet he
had thought but little about them since he
had wished them il good-bye." His regiment
had moved, as he had said it would,
up to the North from Aldershot, and the
consequence was that Gilbert had been
little in London this year.

The Kynastons had thrown up The Firs
at the end of the hunting-season, and were
now quietly established in a snug little

house in Mayfair. Mrs. Kynaston was a
woman who went a good deal into society ;
there were people who declined to know
her, saying that her flirtations were rather
too numerous and pronounced for their
taste ; but she had never committed herself
by causing a grave scandal, and in many
houses was a favoured guest. As for the
Major, he took his own way in London ; he
was never seen with his wife, and rarely in
society; he had his own haunts and amusements,
such as the club card-room, bachelor
dinners, little theatrical suppers, trips down
to suburban meetings, &c. He and his wife
certainly lived under the same roof, but
when in London saw very little of each
other — their dining tete-astute being a rare
occurrence, and the Major was not given
to entertaining. Mrs. Kynaston always
pleaded their poverty on this point ; but,
for all that, it was notorious amongst her
intimates that she gave the nicest little
lunches possible. There were never, at the

outside, above half-a-dozen people, and there
was no laboured profusion, but the three
or four dishes were admirably cooked, and
the wine always undeniable.

Norman Slade had been rather indignant
at finding Major Kynaston amongst the
people he had been asked to meet. He was
by no means particular, and had met queer
people at the dinner-table before now, but
he had always disliked all he had heard
about Kynaston, and when they met he
conceived an actual antipathy to him. He
was a man strong in his dislikes, and it so
happened the Major had been placed next
him on this occasion. Kynaston, for his
own purposes, had grossly exaggerated his
acquaintance with Gilbert, which was, in
reality, of the very slightest, as he had seen
but little of him on the one occasion of
their meeting. Like most of his class, he
had a tremendous idea of his own astuteness
; he was always vaunting that nobody
ever got over Dick Kynaston, and fell, as

such men invariably do, into the mistake of
thinking he could turn his fellows inside
out. He thought Norman Slade might give
him many a valuable hint in Turf matters.
He had heard of that gentleman's reputation
for reticence, but only let him — Dick
Kynaston — make his acquaintance, and he
would very soon worm out of him what he
knew.

Norman Slade literally swelled with indignation
at that dinner, when, under an
affectation of boisterous jocularity, he recognised
that the Major was actually attempting
to pump him ! Can you fancy what the
feelings of a crack leader at the Old Bailey
would be at being cross-examined by Mr.
Briefless r But after a while Norman began
to take a saturnine pleasure in the operation,
though the Major would have been
hardly re-assured could he have heard
Slade's remark to himself as he walked
home :

If that chattering beast puts together all

he has got out of me, he'll find it amounts
to very little, and is more calculated to mislead
him than not."

The Major, on the contrary, went home
with the impression that he had quite subdued
the slight prejudice against him on
the part of Norman Slade to commence
with ; that he had parted with that gentleman
on the most friendly terms, and had
already possessed himself to some slight extent
with Slade' s views on forthcoming Turf
events. We do at times go home pluming
ourselves on the favourable impression we
have produced, serenely unconscious that
our host and hostess may have mutually
agreed that as it was the first so should it
be the last time we are present at their hospitable
board. There is no end to the limit
of human vanity, and the people who
honestly recognise that they have, to use a
slang phrase, not "come off" in a social
gathering are few and far between. Most
of us believe that it is our jest or repartee

that gave brilliancy to the meeting, or that
it was our never being vouchsafed an opportunity
clothed the gathering with such unmitigated
dulness. No man had a higher
opinion of himself as a conversationalist
than the Major. He had a good stock of
stories, and not hackneyed stories, which he
told well, and he had a jovial off-hand sort
of manner, very apt to impose upon those
who were not shrewd observers. He never
made a greater mistake than when he
thought he had imposed upon Norman
Slade. That gentleman, who had carefully
avoided knowing him for some years, was
never so thoroughly convinced of the correctness
of his judgment as at this moment.
Suddenly a tall, haggard-looking man
stopped abruptly opposite Norman, and with
a curt, " How d'ye do, Slade ? " sat himself
down on the adjacent chair. The merest
novice could have made no mistake about
the status of the newcomer. He was undoubtedly
a man about whose position in

the world there could be little doubt,
though the worn and haggard face was that
of a man who, though still in his prime, was
living a life that must break the strongest
constitution if persisted in. The dark circles
under the eyes, and the careworn lines
about the mouth, were indicative of a man
who kept abnormal hours, and never ceased
battling with fortune, and his face did not
belie him — play in some shape was pretty
much Sir Ronald Radcliffe's idea of existence.


"Nice morning, Slade," he said, as he
settled himself in a chair. " Not often you
come amongst the trees and the dickey-birds,
and you're about right. Awful bore,
you know, if it's only the taking your hat
on. Don't know why I come here, knowing
such a lot of women as I do. Heard anything
of old Bill Smith lately ? "

Yes," said Norman, gravely. " I'd a
few lines from him not long ago, in which
he said he had small hopes of his half-dozen

two-year-olds this year, that they were all
backward, and he believed most of them badin
short, I am afraid, Eadcliffe, that Bill
has gone to the deuce. There isn't such a
horseman on the Turf, there isn't such a
judge in a trial in England, but I hear from
up in the North that they can trust him no
longer. I don't mean that he isn't square
enough, but that drink has laid hold of him,
and there's no depending on his being sober
when wanted."

"End of everything when it comes to
that," said Sir Ronald. " A fellow gets mistaking
the winning-post and all sorts of
games."

Ah, well," said Slade, dreamily, " you
and I, Eadcliffe, have landed many a pretty
coup out of poor old Bill's inspirations. I
shall go up and stay with him about the
back end, and I'll slip you a line then, and
tell you what I think of him. As for the
horses, I don't suppose his young ones are
worth looking at."

"It's getting about time I had a turn over
something," replied the baronet, moodily.
Money is getting scarce as corn was in the
bad times of Pharaoh. Don't know how
the deuce you manage, Norman ; things
never seem to fly up and hit you in the
face."

"Well, Radcliffe," rejoined Slade, "I
neither bet nor spend money like you —
haven't got it, and never had it, so I can't.
I go for a coup now and again, as you know,
but then it is on the strength of very excellent
information, and I always stand to win
a good stake at comparatively a small risk.
My usual betting is a thing that never
makes me uncomfortable, and, as for my
whist, shillings and half-crowns content
me."

By Jove!" said Sir Eonald, turning half
round in his chair, and surveying his companion
in languid astonishment. " What a
deuce of a lot of time you must have to
spare. Why it would take you hours, and

be a sinful waste of luck, to collect a few
pounds at that price''

Never you mind," rejoined Slade ; "I
only play for amusement."

Of course, so does everybody; whist is
a healthy recreation. My dear Norman,
beware of indolence ; and whist, for such
pitiful points as you mention, is a waste of
those golden hours concerning which that
impostor the bee is always dangled before
our eyes. Don't know much about that
insect myself, but a fellow conversant with
his habits told me the other day that the
bee was nothing like such a fool as these
ballad-mongers made him out ; that when
he had the chance he infinitely preferred
stealing honey from the nearest grocer's to
toiling for it on his own account."

"Well, Eadcliffe," rejoined Slade, "you
and I are old friends, and I'm not likely
to leave you out in the cold whenever I get
a chance. You can work a commission as
well as anybody, and I know, from experience,

don't cackle. But, honestly, at
the present moment, I know nothing more
than most racing men about coming events;
and as for what you want, a real good
chance at long odds, have no conception of
such a thing."

"Well," rejoined the Baronet, "much
obliged to you for your good opinion, old
man. The financial crisis presents its 
aspect; but there's nothing
more to be done than, in the words of
the ballad, 6 Pear not, but trust in Providence,'
and devoutly hope my creditors will
trust in me ; n and with this Sir Ronald
picked himself out of his chair, and, with a
slight nod to his companion, strolled onwards.


Good fellow that ! " muttered Slade ;
and, for all his swagger and languid airs,
just as 'cute a man about racing as I know.
They tell me he plays a capital rubber,
besides; but it must all beat him at last.
He's an extravagant man, and perpetually

playing for stakes out of all proportion to
his capital. I wonder what Sir Ronald
began the world with. He had a fair income,
no doubt, to start with, but I should
think he has reduced it a good deal since
he came into the property, and, from all
accounts, her ladyship is not likely to make
his income go further."

As for the subject of these remarks, he
strolled in his usual listless fashion towards
Hyde Park Corner, exchanging greetings
right and left on his way. Everybody
seemed to know him, and with everyone
did he seem popular. Women smiled and
bowed to him with empressement ; men
greeted him heartily, and not with that
careless nod that signifies utter indifference
at meeting one. Radcliffe was as popular a
man as any in London ; but how he had
lasted so long with his extravagant habits
was an enigma that puzzled those who knew
him best extremely.

CHAPTER VII.

FURZEDON ENTERS SOCIETY.

Well, Lettice, I am very glad to have
you with me again, though I don't quite
know how I shall amuse you now you are
here."

Nonsense, auntie," rejoined Miss Devereux,
laughing. " You London people
always seem to us country folks to go out
so much. I am sure when I pass six weeks
with you I go out more than I do in all the
remaining weeks of the year."

I am a sociable being," laughed Mrs.
Connop ; " and, as Providence has given me
the wherewithal to keep up a good house, I
like to see people about. I like to see

young people, too, about me. It keeps one
from getting rusty, and I have no idea of
settling down into an old woman before my
time."

Nobody, certainly, would have described
Mrs. Connop as an old lady. She carried
her fifty years wonderfully well; without
affecting any undue juvenility, she was as
sprightly a woman of her age as any in
London ; fond of society, full of go, and a
fluent talker, she had got together a large
if somewhat mixed acquaintance. She went
everywhere, and, though it is quite possible
that fastidious people would have pronounced
her not in society, she mixed freely
in an extensive social world of her own.
She might be unrecognised by the queens of
the fashionable world, but there are various
circles in London that exchange the most
friendly relations, although their names
never figure in the Morning Post. A young
lady under Mrs. Connop's chaperonage
would be certain to have a stood time of ito

*

VOL. I. I

although, perhaps, she would not be seen in
the stately mansions of Belgravia. Lettre
made no disguise about it : she always
looked forward eagerly to an invitation to
Onslow Gardens.

The Devereuxeses were an energetic family,
and never allowed themselves to be bored
anywhere ; they were people who could
always make for themselves occupation;
and, although North Leach was a quiet-enough
place when the hunting-season was
over, vet Miss Devereux never found her
time hang heavily on her hands. Still Lettre
invariably regarded her London visit as one
of the best "bits" in her year. There was,
too, just a little bit of uncertainty about it,
that gave a zest to the invitation. Although
her aunt had asked her regularly since she
had left school, yet there was always a possibility
that that enterprising lady might
take it into her head to go abroad for a
time. This year Lettie was looking forward
to seeing a good deal of the Kynastons while

in town ; she did not care very ranch about
the Major, but she had struck up a great
friendship with Mrs. Kynaston. That lady
reciprocated the feeling. There was a freshness
about Lettie which, though it a little
amused her, she could not but regret the
loss of in herself. Married to a man like
the Major, she had not been likely to retain
that quality long; and there were times
when Kate Kynaston felt bitterly sick of
the life she was condemned to lead. The
only daughter of fashionable but impecunious
parents, it had been impressed upon
her from her childhood that she was bound
to marry the first eligible suitor that presented
himself. Captain Kynaston, as he
was then, a fast young man in a crack
Dragoon regiment, and with the reputation
of considerably more money than he had
ever possessed, seemed to Kate's father to
fulfil all reasonable expectations. It is true,
when they came to the settlements, that
battered old roue felt somewhat disap-
i2

pointed, but things had gone too far to
retract, and. he could do no more than see
that such settlement as Kingston could, or
would, make was tightly tied up. There is
much virtue in a settlement to gentlemen
of the Kynaston type, as it not uncommonly
becomes to them after a few years the sole
source of income upon which they can confidently
rely The Majors case was not
exactly so bad as that, but with his tastes
for good living, the card-table, and the racecourse,
his income, outside that settled on his
wife, might be termed a little precarious.

There were people who spoke slightingly
and shook their heads over Kate Kynaston' s
doings, although civil enough to her when
they met. Kate's audacity sometimes paralysed
them, and Kate's quick tongue undoubtedly
awed them. She was a dangerous
woman to splinter lances with ; she had a
quick eye for the joints in her adversary's
harness ; she mixed much in the world, and
was thoroughly au courant with all the

fashionable scandal of that world ; and the
quick, rapier-like thrust she could deliver
under a traducer's guard had made women
wondrous shy of personally attacking her.
But, for all that, there were times when
Kate tired bitterly of this ceaseless battle
of life — of this continuous struggle to hold
her own in the weary treadmill of society.
It is all very well if you are one of the
heavy galleons that sail under a recognised
flag, but for the dashing privateers that
flaunt their own gay colours, and only hold
their own by finesse, adroitness, and cajolery,
its fruits savour of the Dead Sea.

Kate Kynaston was just the woman who
in the last century might have renounced all
pomps and vanities, and betaken herself to
a convent, might also very probably have
got painfully bored with the seclusion in
six months, emerged again into the world,
and become more montaigne than ever; butin
the days of which I am writing this was
not to be thought of; moreover, the Major,

if he had no great regard for his wife, would
have been the last man to permit anything
of that sort. Mrs. Kynaston usually assented
to his wishes with easy indifference,
hut the Major had a dim perception that
there might come a time when some point
would raise a battle royal between them,
and that, should such arise, Kate might
prove troublesome to coerce.

It is singular how we re-act upon each
others destinies ; we go along on our own
jog-trot road till suddenly some new being,
of whose existence we have so far never
heard, crosses our path, and changes the
whole current of our destiny. Impossible
to say what this new factor in the woof of
our lives may do for us, but so it is ; his
advent changes our fate for good or evil.
Mr. Purzedon, a few months ago, was
utterly unknown, even by name, to all the
characters in this story ; even Charlie
Devereux, whose acquaintance with him was
the longest, had known him scarce eighteen

months ; and yet this man is destined to
considerably affect most of the leading
characters in this narrative. Mr. Furzedon
has left Cambridge, not seeing his way into
getting inch more profit out of that University.
He gave some very extensive wine
and supper parties previous to his departure,
at which no expense was spared. As before
said, he was a man who could spend money
freely when he saw a possible return for
doing so. And in this instance he was
anxious to thoroughly clinch his acquaintance
with all the eligible young men he had
contrived to get intimate with.

Mr. Furzedon has established himself in
chambers in Ryder Street, and, as he sits
lingering over a latish breakfast, is meditating
deeply how he is to set about the
working his way into society of some sort.
A shrewd, pushing man, callous to a rebuff,
and of considerable tenacity of purpose, he
was pretty certain to attain his end before
long. As he had gone to the University

for the sole purpose of making desirable
acquaintance, so he had lately contrived to
get himself elected to a club. It was not,
perhaps, one of the crack establishments of
the West End, but had a fair second-rate
reputation, and its ballot was known to be
not so stringent as in some possessed of
greater prestige. Like even the best of
clubs, its members were rather a mixed lot.
Mr. Purzedon frequented the Parthian with
great assiduity; he set himself to work to
learn the names and history of the members,
and it is astonishing how much a man who
makes that kind of thing his business can
pick up about his brethren. There are
clubs of which it is said : " They never let
the wrong man in there." Sheer fallacy !
The most exclusive coterie, like any other
community, cannot avoid falling into that
mistake. If at times institutions like the
Parthian, owing to a shortness of members,
are not quite so strict in their ballot, it
naturally follows that the proportion of

black sheep is larger, and it was in sifting
the black from the white that Mr. Furzedon
was now engaged. The conduct of clubmen
is erratic ; there is the pleasant, genial,
talkative man, known to every one, but of
whose life nobody can tell anything after he
has passed the club porter ; there is the
man who dines there three hundred nights
out of the year, but who apparently knows
nobody, and invariably takes his meal in
solitude ; there is the member who bores
you with his own affairs ; there is the irascible
member who is in weekly communication
with the Committee.

It was not likely that Furzedon could
arrive at a sketch of the lives of all of his
brethren, but he did of a great many. He
himself was merely a representative of a
type found in all similar institutions, the
man who invariably calls the waiters and
inquires the name of any one whose face he
does not know .Where Eurzedon thought
his inquiries satisfactory he endeavoured to

scrape an acquaintance. This brings us
again to another type of club man, not
quite such a bore, perhaps, as Toe Thompson,
who, as the legend goes, always commenced
his insidious advances by treading
on his victim's corns and then apologising,
but Mr. Furzedon was conscious that he
must do something more than that. Club
acquaintance by no means leads to intimacy
with social surroundings. He was busy
this morning thinking what houses he could
call at, and Mr. Purzedon felt gloomily
that, with the end he had in view, they
were very circumscribed in number. There
was Mrs. Kingston, but then he did not
know were she was. She was a lady with
no fixed abode, and, though she and the
Major usually spent six months of their
year in town, yet they rented their house as
they chanced to pick it up. Ah ! there was
Mrs. Connop, that was the aunt Miss Devereux
always came to stay with, and surely
Miss Devereux must be in town bv now. No

difficulty in finding Mrs. Connop, she had
a permanent abode, her address was easily
to be arrived at in the Blue Book, and if be
could only see Miss Devereux, she would
probably know were Mrs. Kynaston resided.
Adhering to his plan, Mr. Purzedon
made his way out towards South Kensington
that afternoon, and in Piccadilly he
passed Gilbert Slade. Now he had never
seen that gentleman, except at Lincoln
races, and the Shades as a race were not
people who knew you lightly. Furzedon,
even on that occasion, had hardly exchanged
half-a-dozen words with him, but,
constant to the principle he had laid down,
he nevertheless nodded genially to Gilbert.
That gentleman's face simply expressed
blank recognition, and then he returned the
salutation by slightly touching his ha f .
Gilbert Slade, in good truth, had no recollection
of who it was that had bowed to
him ; but Mr. Furzedon had two points
invaluable to him in the role he proposed

to play — he had a capital memory for both
names and faces.

That afternoon witnessed the debut of Mr.
Purzedon in Onslow Gardens. The defunct
pawnbroker's son had, at all events, mastered
one of the mysteries of fashion ; he
had learnt bow to knock. One may think
the knocking at a door is of no consequence,
perhaps not to the proprietors of
the house, who may or may not hear it,
and who very likely, if they do, pay little
attention to it. I am not going to enter
into that vast question so intelligible to
those conversant with the history of the
knocker, to whom the knock of the post,
the dun, the taxes, the begging petitioner,
the borrower, the wealthy but exasperated
relative. &c, are as easy to read as telegrams.
I am alluding only to the visitor's
knock. And in the servants' hail this is
interpreted on a mutely acknowledged scale
accordingly. On those of the nervous,
timid, and hesitating knock, they invariably

bestow arrogance and contumely, but to the
donor of the bold, audacious roulade on the
knocker they are invariably cap in hand.
Delicious are the errors into which these
clumsy menials constantly fall, except they
are servants of the very best class : the
swaggering manner and a certain gorgeousness
of dress will constantly impose upon
them. They kootoo to the confident stockbroker,
and turn up their noses at the more
diffident peer.

Mr. Purzedon, in all the gorgeousness of
his summer raiment, preceded by his dashing
peal on the knocker, was just the sort of
man that quiet servitors would be startled
by. There was nothing outre about his
garments, but everybody will understand
what I mean when I say that they were
just a little too glossy. It is difficult to
explain, but a well-dressed man of the
world never seems to put on a new coat.
Furzedon was wont to have the appearance

of having received his clothes only the night
before from his tailor.

Yes, Miss Devereux was staying there, and
Mrs. Connop would be very glad to see
Mr. Eurzedon, was the answer that came
down in acknowledgment of his card. Mr.
Purzedon lost no time in responding to the
invitation, and as he entered the drawing-room
Lettice advanced to meet him, and,
after shaking hands with him, at once presented
him to her aunt.

« Very glad, indeed, Mr. Eursedon, to
make your acquaintance. I am always
pleased to see any friends of my family ; and
Lettie tells me that you have been staying at
North Leach all the winter, and are now
quite a known man with the Brocklesby."

I am afraid Miss Devereux is a little
laughing at me when she says that. I certainly
can claim in one sense to be a well-known
man in that country, namely, that I
was a constant attendant at their meets,

and had capital good fun ; but a well-known
man is usually translated into a very prominent
horseman with such hounds. I am
afraid I wasn't quite that. They were all a
little too good for me down there."

Ah, auntie, you must not trust to this
mock humility. Mr. Furzedon held his
own with most of us."

Very good of you to say so, Miss Devereux,
and I'll not be such a fool as to argue
that view of the case with you. Anvwav,
Mrs. Connop, I had a capital time at North
Leach, and two very jolly days at Lincoln
afterwards, although, sad to say, the family
banner — that is metaphorical for colours,
you know — was not triumphant."

Never mind," exclaimed Mrs. Connop;
I wasn't born a Devereux without knowing
something of these things. I didn't
see it, but Charlie's young, and I'll go bail
he does better yet. From my recollection
of all those cheery Hunt Steeplechases, the
young ones were very apt to get a little the

worst of it at first, but a few years' practice
and they turn the tables. There is no truer
adage, Mr. Eurzedon, than that youth will
be served. I don't call myself an old
woman, and never mean to, but if you ask
me whether Lettie can walk me down — well
I suspect she can."

No," said Purzedon; "nobody ever
does grow old in these days. Why, look at
all our leading public men— boys still, in
spite of what their baptismal registers
assert to the contrary. By the way,
Miss Devereux, have you seen anything
of the Kynastons since you have been in
town ? "

Not as yet," rejoined Lettie, " but I
have only been here three days as yet. In
fact, I am rather surprised at your having
heard of my arrival."

Well," replied Furzedon, " that is a
pure piece of good fortune on my part. I
remember that you said in the winter you
very often spent a few weeks with Mrs.

Connoj) about this time of the year, so I
thought I would call."

w Charlie tells me you have close with
Cambridge."

"Yes," rejoined Furzedon; " I never
intended to take a degree, but my guardians
were right — it is good for a man to go to
the University for a time. It opens his eyes,
and gives him a glimpse of the world."

Mr. Furzedon's guardians were shadowy
people, to whom he only alluded when it
suited his purpose. They had interfered
very little indeed with him, and the going
to Cambridge had been entirely his own
idea, and of his object in doing so we are
already aware. He had been, moreover, of
age now some little time, and was consequently
emancipated from the very light
control his guardians had ever attempted
to exercise. After a little more desultory
talk, Mr. Furzedon rose to take his leave,
and received from Mrs. Connop, as he did
so, a cordial intimation that she would be

VOL. I. K

glad to see him whenever he chose to call.
He had also learnt from Lettice that the
Kynastons had taken a house in Chester
Street, Mayfair.

Not a had beginning," thought Mr.
Eurzedon, as he strolled eastwards. " I've
got my foot fairly inside that house, and it
will be my own fault if I don't establish
myself on Mrs. Connop's visiting list. Mrs.
Kynaston, too, can be a very useful woman
to me if she likes. I don't suppose that they
entertain nmch, but I fancy they have a
very numerous acquaintance in London, and
that Mrs. Kynaston could introduce one
pretty widely if she chose."

CHAPTER VIII.

LADY RAMSBURY's Garden-party.

More hospitable people than the Rains-burns
never existed. They lived in a
great red brick house in Chelsea — one of
those modern imitations of the old Elizabethan
style of house such as you may
see in Pont Street. It stood in the midst
of a large garden, and the Ramsburys
delighted in big dinners during the winter
months, and in large garden-parties in the
summer. What Sir John Ramsbury had
been knighted for was rather a mystery.
He was known as a " warm " man in the
City, was Alderman of his Ward, and, though
he had never passed the chair, it was
k2

always regarded that was an honour he
might aspire to any day. However, he
had attained the distinction of knighthood,
the why could he only explained otherwise
than he had been the chairman of several
commercial enterprises, supposed to have
resulted in much benefit to the country,
and, what was rather more to the point, inconsiderable
benefit to Sir John Ramsbury.
Lady Eamsbury's " gardens " were a
well-known feature in the London season.
The company might be a little mixed, but
there were plenty of right good people
always to be found there. Sir John, as
director of various companies, had come
across a good deal of the salt of this earth,
and in this latter half of the nineteenth
century, when the struggle for existence
waxes harder and harder, both to those
with the bluest of blood in their veins and
to those born in the gutter, the man with
the capability of putting money into his
friends' pockets is a power.

There has never been a time when fashion
in pursuit of its follies did not grovel at
the feet of Plutus. How our neighbours
bowed down at the shrine of Law, and
many of us can remember when to sit at
the table of the railway king was matter
of granulation to half the best society in
London. Who could whisper such auriferous
secrets into dainty ears as he could?
and, though irreverent guardsmen might
put up their glasses at some of the social
solecisms he was wont to commit, yet their
seniors and tue mothers that bore them
were too worldly-wise not to overlook such
trifles as those. In similar fashion, Sir
John Rainsbury commanded a considerable
number of guests at his parties. He did
the thing right well ; there was never any
lack of everything of the best in the commissariat
department at his parties, and it
must, in justice to the worthy knight and
his lady, be added that they were unconventional
people, but by no means vulgar.

Lady Ramsbury and Mrs. Connop were
old friends ; the lamented Connop had been
mixed up with various business speculations
in Sir John's early days, before he blossomed
into knighthood and the dignity of
a house at Chelsea, so that there was
nothing singular in Lettie and her aunt
finding themselves in that pleasant old
garden one fine June afternoon.

After shaking hands with their hostess,
Mrs. Connop and her niece began to slowly
pace the lawn. They met plenty of acquaintance,
and were enjoying themselves
in a careless, gossiping way, when Lettie's
eye was caught by a group of three people
w r ho were occupying a garden-bench, and
conversing somewhat earnestly. The centre
of the group, and the person who had first
attracted her attention, was a slight, elderly
man, with a decided stoop, and an eye like
a hawk. Seated on one side of him was a
stout elderly lady, richly dressed, but who
evidently considered that Nature was a handmaid

to Art. The merest tyro would have
known her colour was not that of fresh air
and superabundant life, and made a shrewd
guess that her exuberant tresses came straight
from her hairdresser's. But Lady Effort
was a well-known and very popular person.
Ascot or Newmarket, Epsom or Doncaster,
would have seemed incomplete without the
presence of that dashing and evergreen
Countess. On the other was Gilbert Slade.
As far as Lettie could see, the conversation
rested principally with the lady, who was
declaiming volubly, while Norman Slade,
who was the central figure of the group,
merely threw in an interjectional word now
and again.

Norman Slade had no objection to fighting
the Turf battles of bygone days over
again with any one who really understood
racing, and the sporting peeress, who was a
thorough enthusiast, was by no means a bad
judge.

I don't agree with you, Lady Effort,"

he ejaculated, in reply to some story of her
ladyship's, the gist of which appeared to be
that she had lost her money when she
thought she ought to have won it. " It is
true, on his previous form the horse ought
to have won, but it by no means follows
that there was any foul play connected with
his running ; horses, like ourselves, are not
always quite themselves, and the cleverest
trainer sometimes fails to detect that his
charge is a little off. I know that people
connected with Lucifer backed him upon
that occasion."

I should like to know what his jockey
did," rejoined her ladyship, sharply.

His best, I think," rejoined Norman ;
"he's a steady, civil boy enough, and we are
rather too apt to make the jockey answerable
for the shortcomings of the horse."

But her ladyship was evidently not convinced,
she was given to be somewhat
suspicious of unfair play when her racing
calculations proved fallible.

At this juncture Gilbert caught sight of
Miss Devereux, and, as he was by no means
such an enthusiast about the " sport of
kings " as his companions, he at once raised
his hat and proceeded to join her.

How d'ye do, Miss Devereux ? Father
different weather from that when I last saw
you. How long have you been in town?"

64 Only about a week," rejoined Lettie ;
but let me introduce you to my aunt, Mrs.
Connop, with whom I am staying."

Gilbert bowed, and muttered something
about " doing himself the pleasure of calling;"
and then, turning to Lettie, said, "I
suppose now you'll see the season out?"

Oh, yes," replied the girl. " I want to
go everywhere and do everything, see all
there is to be seen, and meet all my friends.
I suppose, Mr. Slade, that your intentions
are somewhat similar."

Ah ! it doesn't signify what my intentions
may be. When you're a soldier, you
find the Horse Guards interfere with such

things in ruthless fashion. No ; I regret to
say that I only got a month's leave, and
that a week of it is already gone. Has Polestar
won his spurs yet, Miss Devereux?"

No," rejoined Lettie ; " how can you
recall that day of disgrace tome?"

Not disgrace," rejoined Gilbert ; " you
were defeated, as we all are at times; but, I
fancy, if the race had been run over again,
your brother would have made a closer thing
of it?"

Ah! I daresay Charlie will have another
opportunity of distinguishing himself in the
autumn. Is there any likelihood of your
being present at the autumn meeting on
the Caroline?"

It is very likely," rejoined Gilbert. " I
am quartered at York, and I should think it
is easy to slip clown from there. However,
it is a long way off as yet."

Who was that gentleman you were
talking to, Mr. Slade?" inquired Miss
Devereux.

"That was my uncle Norman," replied
Gilbert. " It is not often that he leaves
his usual haunts for anything of this sort ;
but, for some reason, he is very fond of the
Kamsburys — he has known them a good
many years ; and I've a vague suspicion
that Sir John did him a kindness at some
period of his life. All I know is, that,
though he is a real good fellow, my uncle
Norman is peculiar, and it is by no means
every one that could lure him to their
dinner-table ; not many people, I fancy,
who would have got him to do a thing of
this kind."

I am sure it is charming," replied Miss
Devereux, laughing ; " such pretty grounds,
so many people, and such a good band to
listen to ; I don't think your good uncle is
much to be pitied."

No," said Gilbert ; " but people differ in
taste, and this is not much in my uncle
Norman's line." And the conversation
turned upon military affairs ; for, not a

little to Gilbert's surprise, Miss Devereux
manifested no small curiosity anent " soldiering."
It was easy of explanation.
During the winter she and her brother
Charlie had had many a talk together as
to what line of life he was to pursue, and
he had more than once spoken seriously of
the army as a profession calculated to suit
him when his career at Cambridge was done
with. Letty warmly approved of that determination.
She had a very vague idea of
what a soldier's life was like; but thought
that a man who was a good horseman ought
to make a likely dragoon.

Norman Slade continued to talk in his
lazy way to Lady Melfort. The Countess
always amused him. while he usually acted
as a pleasing irritant upon her. He listened
to her vehement protestations of the iniquities
of the Turf with a quiet smile, and
invariably exasperated her by claiming a
high position for the main part of those
connected with it, and declaring that people

who lose a little money shrieked and made
bitter wail over the treachery that they had
encountered, forgetting about the extreme
uncertainty that distinguishes racing beyond
even most mundane affairs.

"My dear Countess," he would say, "you
don't rail against M. Blanc when you lose
your money at Monte Carlo, and yet when
you come to gambling; on the Turf — and you
know, Lady Melfort, you are a gambler —
you don't bet merely upon the races you
understand and can form an opinion about,
but you bet on all sorts of handicaps and
selling races, of which, concerning the
merits of the competitors, you know nothing''

"Well, I hate to see a race, Mr. Slade,
without having something on it."

"Just so," rejoined Norman; "then you
couldn't bear to see the ball spinning round
at Monte Carlo without having a stake on
it, and, whether you back the red or the
black, it is just about as great a lottery as
some of these races you speculate on."

If Norman somewhat irritated her, Lady
Melfort had a profound respect for his
judgment. She believed him to be able to
elucidate many a Turf mystery that had
puzzled racing-people profoundly, and in
this she was right; there were few men
perhaps more behind the scenes than Norman
Slade. There were not many Turf
robberies of which he could not explain the
history. Pray don't think for one moment
he was a participator in them. Like the
general public, he had occasionally been a
victim ; but, when the scandal connected
with such events was once blown over, a
story in Turf circles is pretty certain to
leak out in more or less accurate form, and
he sometimes regaled Lady Melfort with the
true history of one of these bygone surprises.
Like many men of his type, good-hearted
fellow though he was at bottom, he would
hardly have interfered to save any one in
whom he was not interested from being
awfully taken advantage of.

'* It is wonderful," he was wont to say,
the amount of foolishness there is in this
world, and, as regards racing, the man who
undertook the task of being guardian to the
dovecot would have a thankless and onerous
office. These ' squabs,' if they have any
independence, emerged from the parental
dwelling with a complacent self-sufficiency
no warning could disturb "

He would have interfered fast enough on
behalf of his favourite nephew had he seen
occasion, but Gilbert was a man quite able
to take care of himself, and with no taint
of gambling in his blood. Norman in his
varied life had seen vous: men come to
grief from various causes, and had more
than once, at the instigation of anxious
relatives, interfered in their behalf. One
rule he always firmly adhered to. " Don't
ask me," he would say, " to meddle in the
affairs of a young gentleman who is going
down hill at a hand-gallop. I don't like
young gentlemen — their talk bores me, and

they don't like me. They are sure not to
take my advice, and call me an old fogey,
I've no doubt, when my back is turned.
However, when your hopeful has gone a
6 real perished ' I will step in if you wish
it. The young man in difficulties, and the
young man with his quill-feathers still unplucked,
are very different people to deal
with."

Miss Devereux and Gilbert Slade continued
to improve their acquaintance during
the best part of the afternoon. The young
lady had not a very numerous acquaintance
present, and was not at all averse to having
this good-looking hussar dangling by her
side. Gilbert thought her, as he well might,
a very pretty girl. He had not been so
much struck with her at Lincoln, but now
she w T as arrayed in all her summer braveries
he freely acknowledged her beauty, and,
what was more to the point, her lively talk
amused him. It was not that he did not
know plenty of people, for many a fair head

was bent in salutation to him as he paced
the grass by Lettie's side, but Gilbert was
too pleased with his present companion to
seek for change — in fact, by the time he
had put Mrs. Connop and her niece into
their carriage it was quite arranged that he
should call in Onslow Gardens the next
day.

She is rather a nice girl, that," mused
Mr. Slade, as he paced homewards with a
vigilant eye for a passing hansom ; " besides,
after the way in which her mother lunched
me at Lincoln, I am bound to make my
obeisance to the young lady and her aunt.
What splendid brown eyes she has — and
what a figure for a riding-habit ! "

I fancy those eyes had much to say to
Gilbert's punctilious politeness, for had
Miss Devereux been other than she was he
would not so clearly have recognised the
necessity of calling in Onslow Gardens. He
was a young man apt to be a little careless
of such social obligations, but, though very

VOL. I. L

far from impressionable, lie had always a
genuine admiration for a pretty woman, and
was fond of women's society. He differed
from both his uncles in that respect, who,
though leading very different lives, were
alike in that one thing — they both eschewed
the society of the fair sex, except upon rare
occasions.

Miss Devereux, as she drove along, looked
back on a very pleasant afternoon. "Charlie
must be a soldier," she thought, " I rather
like soldiers." And then Lettie could not
help laughing as she considered how very
limited her military acquaintance was — Mr.
Slade, and two or three officers whom she
had danced with at Hunt Balls — and had no
recollection of being particularly impressed
with at the time. She was conscious herself
that she was basing her predilection for
the army entirely upon Gilbert Slade, whom,
after all, she had only met three times.
Major Kynaston, the only soldier of whom
she had much knowledge, she undoubtedly

had but little admiration for, but then she
decided in her own mind that he was probably
an unfavourable specimen.

Suddenly Mrs. Connop exclaimed, with
some abruptness, " When did you hear from
Charlie last ? ''

Oh, not for some days."

Where do you suppose he is ? " inquired
her aunt.

He is sure to be at Cambridge."

I don't think he is, my dear," rejoined
Mrs. Connop. " I forgot to tell you, but
when I was out shopping this morning,
Charlie passed me in a hansom cab, unless
I am very much mistaken."

Did he see you, auntie ? "

No ; of that I am quite sure. It is
very odd he should be in town and not
come out to see me."

Miss Devereux made no reply. It was
not very likely that her aunt was mistaken,
and she knew that Mrs. Connop much resented
any of her family not duly presently
2

ing themselves in Onslow Gardens on such
occasions, while Lettie was also aware that
young gentlemen at the University were not
uncommonly in London without the knowledge
of their relations. She kept her misgivings
carefully to herself, but from a little
that had escaped Charlie in the winter she
felt pretty sure that there were money
troubles impending over his head, and that
the storm was likely to burst at any
moment.

CHAPTER IX.

A LITTLE GAME AT BILLIARDS.

It is a curious thing, but it is nevertheless
most generally the case, that when a young
gentleman gets into difficulties he is apt to
bestow his confidence, and take advice, in
all probability from the very last man he
should select. To go to the home authorities,
undoubtedly the best people in whom
to confide until by repetition their patience
has been exhausted, is about the last thing
that occurs to many of us in those days of
hot youth and difficulties. Charlie Devereux
had got a bit dipped at the University,
but it was not that which troubled him ; he
could have carried such debts as those

straight to his father without fear of his
reception. He might be called "an extravagant
young dog," and there might be a
good bit of grumbling over it, still he knew
they would be paid. But Furzedon had
gradually imbued him with a taste for
racing and the backing of horses at Newmarket.
Charlie was of far too impulsive a
disposition ever to do much good in that
way. A man may be a very fine horseman,
or, even more, he may be a very fair judge
of racing, and yet have no manner of discretion
in the backing of horses. Charlie
in the first place had been indebted to
Furzedon for the means with which to meet
his liabilities, but as he got intimate with
the Kynastons he was, like many another
young man before him, very much impressed
by the Major's apparent knowledge of the
world.

The Major always did impose upon young
men in this wise. A man who really does
believe in himself is very apt to imbue his

fellows with like belief, and, despite many
rude shocks that should have shaken his
opinion, Kynaston still prided himself upon
his astuteness. There was not a " leg " at
Newmarket that he was not more than a
match for ; the cleverest adventurer in London
would never get the best of him at
either the billiard or the card-table. As for
the Stock Exchange, they knew a thins or
two there, but they would have to get up
very early in the morning to get the best of
Dick Kynaston.

Dining at The Firs one night after a
capital day's hunting, when the Major had
suggested that just a couple of glasses of port
apiece could not possibly hurt them after
such a glorious gallop in the open, Charlie
had made a clean breast of his troubles to
his host. The latter listened with great
interest. Young men's difficulties always
had an interest for him. His knowledge of
money-brokers and bill-discounters w r as extensive,
and nobody understood the rights

of salvage better than he did. He delighted
in being hailed by the sinking ship when
the skipper was young, and too thankful for
his help to dream of disputing the price of
his redemption. Very pretty pickings to be
had in these cases, the Major knew. Of
course there were others who must be permitted
to share in the spoils ; but the Major
was a jackal of mark, and by no means,
when the picking of the carcass took place,
to be put off with bare bones.

He told Charlie that he had no doubt he
could help him, but he would take a little
time to consider of it, which, being interpreted,
meant that Dick Kynaston intended
leisurely to appraise his victim. It was not,
remember, that he had won any money from
Charlie, but that the latter had come to him
with the story of his difficulties. When the
Major came to consider the speculation, he
considered it might probably turn out a profitable
one. To begin with, the Devereuxeses
were unmistakeably well-to-do people, and

that, therefore, the money was certain to be
all right in the long-run — a thing that the
gentleman to whom he meant to confide the
relief of Charlie's necessities would be doubtless
anxious about. Secondly, he thought
there was nothing more probable than that
from this, as yet, embryo North Leach stable
might spring a dangerous steeplechaser or
two, and to be behind the scenes in such
case might be the means of putting several
hundreds into his pocket. Lastly, like Mr.
Furzedon, Kynaston recognised that Charlie
had the makings of a real horseman — a
little green, perhaps, at present, but only
wanting practice to develop into a first-class
gentleman rider. Acting on all this, the
Major had enabled Charlie to discharge his
debt to Purzedon and save his hunters, but
it had all been done in the usual way —
bills of six months, bearing ruinous interest,
which Charlie had signed, with the Major's
rollicking assurance ringing in his ears, of —
Pooh, my dear boy! we shall have one

or two more rolls of the ball before these
come due, and you will probably win a nice
little stake on one of the Spring handicaps,
which will enable you to just light cigars
with them."

There are people who have broken the
bank at Homburg, and I suppose there are
people in Charlie's circumstances who have
won enough money to discharge similar
liabilities, but to the ordinary run of humanity
such a thing never happens, and
when it does I, in the superstition engendered
by long years of watching the battle
of the gambler with fortune, fear every
gruesome fate for him. One I knew, who,
after steadily plodding through years of ill-luck
on the Turf that might have deterred
many men from continuing, at last had his
year. He was no heavy gambler, but how
much he won between the First Newmarket
Spring and the finish of the Ascot w T week was
preposterous, considering the stakes with
which he originally started. That he had

followed his luck there is no need to say,
and had bet at Ascot in a way hitherto unknown
to him; hut it benefited him, poor
fellow, but little, for ere the next twelvemonth
was over he was laid peacefully in
his grave, and recked little of what went on
on that Turf he had loved so dearly.

But those bills had at last become due,
while that nice little stake which the Major
had so jauntily predicted had not us yet
been landed. Kynaston dropped a line to
his young friend, and informed him that,
unless he saw his wav to meeting them, it
was absolutely necessary he should come upto
town and make arrangements for their
renewal ; and this it was that had brought
Charlie Devereux to London. Kynaston
determined to take advantage of the opportunity
to give a little dinner to Devereux
and Furzedon. The latter somewhat puzzled
him. He was conscious that Eurzedon was
a shrewdest young gentleman, though he
would naturally have derided the idea of

anv one of his years setting the better of
Dick Kynaston. A thing that had rather
puzzled Eurzedon had been where Charlie
had procured the money to settle with him ;
but the Major had cautioned Devereux to
keep silence respecting those bill transactions,
and, as Charlie had not volunteered
any information, Purzedon could not, of
course, press him on the subject. Kynaston
was not given to entertaining, and, like one
of his guests, usually had some object in
view when he did extend his hospitality ;
but the tastes of young men who had either
money or well-to-do relatives he always
considered were worth studying. He had
gathered up in the wolds during the 
that Charlie, amongst other
things, was a little proud of his billiard-playing,
but at The Firs, and upon the two
or three occasions that he had dined at
North Leach, there had been no opportunity
of testing young Devereux's skill in that
particular.

The Major's off-hand invitations to dine
with him at the Thermopolium were loth
accepted, although Eurzedon pleaded, inconsequence
of another engagement, that
he should have to run away soon after
dinner was over. Major Kynaston could bea
good host when he chose to take the
trouble, and the trio, after a satisfactory
repast, lingered for some time over their
wine. At last Furzedon declared he must
go, and after his departure Kynaston proposed
that they should have a game of
billiards with their cigar. Charlie was
delighted with the proposition, and, having
adjourned to the strangers' billiard-room,
they commenced their game. They happened
to have the room to themselves, and
at first seemed evenly matched, but towards
the middle of the game Charlie began to
draw away from his opponent, and apparently
won pretty easily at the finish.
Kynaston seemed a little nettled at this,
proposed another game of a hundred up

and offered to bet a crown be won it. He
certainly made a better fight this time, but
Devereux was once more victorious ; still,
the Major declined to own himself defeated,
and suggested another game for the same
nominal stake. Devereux assented, and
even offered to give a few points, which
the Major testily declined. This time the
scoring ran pretty even, when a stout gentleman,
smoking a very large cigar, lounged
into the room, nodded slightly to Kynaston,
and, seating himself on the adjacent bench,
proceeded to watch the play. The arrival
of the new comer seemed slightly to disconcert
the Major, but, at the same time, it
seemed to have improved his play. A
somewhat amused expression stole over
the looker-on's face; and, when Kynaston
eventually proved the conqueror by a few
points, he rose from his seat, and, as he
sauntered out of the room, remarked —

Hardly playing up to your usual form,
Kynaston."

"Always the case," replied that gentleman,
" when you drink champagne at
dinner ; you never can quite tell what the
effect will be. You either play below your
game or a good many points above it."

Perhaps so," rejoined Bob Braddock,
for it was he who had been the amused
spectator. " I don't know who that very
young gentleman is," he muttered to himself,
as he left the room ; " but, if he thinks
that he can form the slightest idea of Dick
Kynaston's game of billiards from what he
has seen to-night, he is very much mistaken.
I don't suppose he has any conception that
he has got hold of about the very best
player we have got amongst us, and whom
I fancy there are not half-a-dozen gentleman
players in London can tackle."

Major Braddock was right ; although
Charlie was no fool, he had not the slightest
idea, so well was it done, that Kynaston
was concealing his game; he looked upon
him as much such a player as himself; but

thought that he was a little the best of the
two. However, they played a couple more
games upon even terms, and, whatever
Kynaston's object might have been, it was
evident he had no design upon Charlie at
present ; for in one of these games he was
easily beaten, and the other he just won by
an apparent fluke. Nor did he make the
slightest attempt to induce Charlie to bet
further than the modest stake first proposed.


Whether Mr. Furzedon, if he had remained
and witnessed the episode of the
billiard-playing, would have been much enlightened
about his host's character, it is
hard to say. Furzedon was very shrewd,
no doubt, and it must be borne in mind
four years Devereux's senior ; but it is very
difficult indeed, knowing nothing of a good
billiard-player's game, to know whether he
is doing his best; then, again, Eurzedon
had never set himself to study Major Kingston.
He knew that he was a sporting-man,

much addicted to horseradish, and he had
little doubt with a taste for play; but he
had never troubled his head to take further
stock of him. He had dined with Kynaston
at some little inconvenience, simply with
the view of cementing the acquaintance
commenced at North Leach. He looked to
Mrs. Kynaston principally to help him in
the main ambition of his life, namely, the
working his way into London society. Mr.
"Furzedon had a hisjh idea of utilising his
fellows in anywise ; but it had not so far
struck him that the Major could be useful
to him. He had not yet fathomed the vainglorious
weakness of Kynaston' s nature.
The Major never could resist vaunting his
triumphs when fortune favoured him, either
on the baize or on the grass.

Young Devereux regained his quarters
with all the complacency of a man who
has spent a thoroughly satisfactory evening.
He had had an excellent dinner, a good
tussle at billiards with an opponent worthy

VOL. I. M

of his steel, but of whom he firmly believed
he had legitimately got the best, and, crowning
mercy of all, the Major had told him
those bills would be comfortably arranged
for the present. It is true that there was
something bitter within the cup, and, young
and reckless as he was, even Charlie made
a wry face at the price he was told he
would have to pay for this further accommodation.
Only he had a delicacy about
it, he had far better have taken Furzedon
into his confidence. Even if that gentleman
had charged him interest for extending
his loan, it would have been something
bearing a very mild proportion to what his
present benefactors required for their services.
As Mrs. Connop rightly surmised,
Charlie had not seen her. He was only
up for two or three days, and did not particularly
wish his relations to know of his
presence in London, more especially Lettie.
He was very fond of his sister, knew that
her suspicions were already slightly aroused

about the state of his affairs, and was not
at all inclined to submit to her keen questioning.
sl No'' he thought, " Lettie always
could worm anything out of me, and it's nota
bit of use worrying her with this scrape,
and she has all her life taken my troubles
a deuced deal more hardly than I ever did
myself. It is awkward, and if I can't win
a race with Pole star in the autumn I don't
see my way out of it. But Lettie's a real
good sort, and she shan't be bothered with
my troubles as long as I can help it."

Miss Devereux, as we know, was already
anxious about her brother, and had she
known where to write to him would have
communicated with him at once, but Charlie
had not as yet attained to the dignity of a
club, and, though when in London he always
encamped in the vicinity of St. James's
church, the precise street as well as number
of the house were always uncertain. Duke
Street, Bender Street, Bury Street, Jermyn
Street, &c, he had lodged in them all. At
M 2

this time of year rooms in that locality were
at a premium, and Miss Devereux knew that
it was more a case of getting in where you
could than where you chose. The only
person she could think of likely to know
Charlie's address was Mr. Furzedon, and
that gentleman, whether he found people
in or out, was much too wary not to leave
his card on the hall table. Lettie accordingly
dropped a line to Mr. Furzedon at the
Parthian Club, asking for her brother's
address, or, should he come across him that
evening, would he tell him to call in Onslow
Gardens.

It was late before Kynaston left the
Thermopolium after his billiard tournament.
He had accompanied Charlie downstairs,
but at their foot encountered an old
chum whom he had not seen for many years,
had consented to turn into the smoking-room
on the ground floor, and have just
one small cigar and a chat over old times.
Bidding Charlie good night, he did this

ancient mariner's " bidding, and, ah me !
how many of us can remember the dire
headache that is the result of those chats
about old times, how that small cigar and
modest liquor accompaniment expands, and
how " hearing the chimes at midnight " is
a lukewarm jest in comparison with the
chimes we do hear upon such occasion. It
is very late indeed as Kynaston prepared to
emerge from the wicket of the Thermopo-
lum. The big doors had been long since
closed, and only that rabbit-like portal was
open to the belated members. As the night-porter
unlatched it for him he handed him
a mean and dirty-looking note, which, after
one glance at the superscription, the Major
thrust carelessly into his waistcoat pocket.

CHAPTER X.

IN ONSLOW Gardens.

No, there's not much difficulty about it,
and from what you tell me, Miss Devereux,
I should think it is the very profession to
suit your brother. There is an examination
to pass, of course ; but most of us manage
to do that after being sharpened up by a
coach for a few months."

Yes ; and Charles has had a University
education," replied the young lady.

Ah ! they don't always bring much
book-learning away from that," rejoined
Gilbert Slade, laughing; " but they are not
required to be so very deeply read to qualify

for the service as yet. If your brother has
made up his mind, he ought to lose no time
about it. It's a pleasant life enough. The
one drawback about it is that it is not a
money-making profession."

Well, Mr. Slade, I shall look to you to
put us in the way of making Charlie a
soldier."

I am afraid they won't pay very much
attention to the recommendation of a subaltern
of dragoons ; but I might be of some
use to you for all that, Miss Devereux. My
uncle, familiarly known in the service as
Bob Braddock — he was christened Henry,
but a fellow who is good for anything always
gets re-christened in his regiment — is hand-and-glove
with all sorts of swells, and a
nomination for a commission is not much to
ask for''

Ah ! here comes auntie ! " exclaimed
Miss Devereux, as her quick ear detected a
hand upon the door-handle. " Not a word
about my brother," she added, hurriedly in

an undertone ; "he is a little in disgrace
just now."

Mrs. Connop welcomed Gilbert cordially.
She was fond of young men, and always
did her best to make her house pleasant to
them. She had a critical eye for masculine
good looks, and Gilbert's tall muscular figure
and dark resolute face were of the type
she most admired. There was a touch of
romance about Mrs. Connop with which
only those who knew the good-tempered,
vivacious lady intimately would have
credited her.

Lettice understood her aunt thoroughly,
and knew that she revelled in sentimental
poetry ; and that her eyes would even yet
moisten over the perusal of a thrilling love-story.


"You have kept your promise, Mr. Slade,"
said Mrs. Connop, as she shook hands.
"And you will be so far rewarded in that
you will meet another of your sporting
acquaintance in a quarter of an hour or so.

I call them so," she continued, laughing,
for, as far as I can make out, you, Lettie,
and Mrs. Kynaston have only met on the
racecourse."

"Not as yet," replied Slade ; "but I trust
it will be different in future. I'm not at all
one of those men who spend the best part
of their lives in the pursuit of racing."

'• It is exciting." exclaimed Lettie ; " remember
what a fever we were all in about
Charlie and Polestar at Lincoln."

"Exciting ! Yes," replied Gilbert, quietly,
you had special cause for it then. Nobody
appreciates and enjoys a good race when it
comes in my way more than I do ; but it
is not to me what it is to my uncle Norman,
for instance — the very breath of his
nostrils."

"May one inquire, Mr. Slade, what are
your tastes?" said Mrs. Connop.

An amused smile played about Gilbert's
mouth as he rejoined, " That is a question
that can be answered from so many different

points of view. Professionally, I should
reply, military glory ; diplomatically, that
they are those of the lady I am talking to.
Honestly, I should say, catholic in the extreme,
as far as I know myself. I should
say I have a keen appreciation of the best
of everything there is going, whether it is
hunting, shooting, travelling, sight-seeing,
or whether it takes the baser form of mere
eating and drinking."

"Ah! Mr. Slade," rejoined Lettie, laughing,
" I have some remembrance of that
latter characteristic. I believe he was
starving, auntie, when father found him at
Lincoln."

Quite true, Miss Devereux. And I can
never be sufficiently thankful that he did
find us. Jocelyn and I were almost capable
of devouring each other."

A peal on the knocker here heralded the
arrival of Mrs. Kynaston, and in another
minute that lady had glided into the room,
shaken hands affectionately with Lettie,

been presented to Mrs. Connop, and exchanged
a cordial greeting with Gilbert Slade.

Glad to catch you at last, Lettie, though
you're one of the latest swallows that ever
made a season. There's nothing new, there
never is, you know, to an old Londoner like
me ; they may call it this, they may call it
that, but it is always the old show dished
up under a new name. However, it's all
very pleasant, and I am enjoying myself as
much as ever, and so will you. I heard by
the purest accident in the Park this morning
that you were at the Ramsbury's ' garden '
yesterday. I don't know them myself, but
have always understood they do the thing
prettily."

"Yes, indeed," rejoined Mrs. Connop. "I
don't care where it is, I think there are
very few garden-parties given in London
where you will find the thing better done
than it is at Chelsea."

"Did you happen to be there, Mr. Slade?"
inquired Mrs. Kynaston, carelessly.

"Yes," replied Gilbert, "it was there I
discovered Miss Devereux ; and it is to that
I owe the pleasure of meeting you again."

"Very nice of you to say so," replied
Mrs. Kynaston ; " and I shall only be too
glad, as will my husband, if you can find
time to honour us with a call in Chester
Street. How is Charlie, Lettie ? has he done
with Cambridge yet ? "

Miss Devereux was slightly discomposed
by this question. She detected a defiant
sniff on the part of her aunt at once. She
knew perfectly well that Mrs. Connop was
already fuming because that erratic young
gentleman had not paid his devoirs in
Onslow Gardens. She had particularly requested
Gilbert to avoid alluding to him,
and now Kate Kynaston had brought his
name prominently forward.

No," she replied, " I have not heard of
him lately, but I believe he is still at Cambridge."


"Do you, Lettie?" said Mrs. Connop,

sharply. " I feel pretty sure that he is at
the present moment in London."

You can't he sure, auntie," rejoined
Miss Devereux ; " in such a city as this, I
should think your double, or your treble,
for the matter of that, might he about.
It is so easy to make a mistake of that
kind."

Ah ! " said Mrs. Kynaston, with some
languid curiosity, " you think Mr. Devereux
is in town, apparently, Mrs. Connop ? "

I don't think it, I know he is ; and it's
very rude of him not to call."

Now, Mr. Slade," cried Lettie, " I appeal
to you : don't you think it is very
possible to make a mistake in the street,
and fancy you've seen a person who is not
within miles of London ? "

Certainly," rejoined Gilbert; " as a
brother officer of mine remarked on this
point, ' Cellars are so confoundedly alike,
you know, there is no knowing them apart ;
if they were only like horses, you know,

clash it all, you couldn't make a mistake
about 'em then.' "

Mrs. Kynaston inwardly congratulated
herself that she had been reticent of speech.
It was in perfectly good faith that she had
asked if he had done with Cambridge, as
she knew that his time there was drawing to
a close ; but she certainly knew, further,
that he had dined with her husband the
previous night. That Charlie should be in
London and his own sister not know of it
puzzled her a little ; but Mrs. Kynaston
was not the woman to make mischief, and
therefore passed Lettie's remark over in
silence.

Come and lunch with me tomorrow,"
she said, " all of you ; and if your brother's
shadow should take material form I shall
only be too pleased, Lettie, if you will bring
him with you. We can have a real good
talk then, and I shall be enabled to honestly
make your acquaintance, Mrs. Connop.
This afternoon I have half-a-dozen places

to go to, and have only time to shake hands
and say how very pleased I shall he to see
you again."

Mrs. Kynaston's invitation was gladly
accepted ; even Gilbert Slade thought luncheon
with the sparkling, bonny brunette
would be pleasant, and, as before said, he
had an epicurean admiration for pretty
women — though at the present moment he
was regarding these two living, breathing
models much as a man might regard a
couple of pictures — still, they were pleasant
to the eye, and afforded him that gratification
that arrives to all of us from the
contemplation of the beautiful. They were
a striking contrast, but both very perfect
in their way. Kate Kynaston's ebon locks,
flashing dark eyes, and well-rounded form,
was a pretty foil to the lithe figure, dark
chestnut tresses, and laughing brown eyes
of her friend.

Mrs. Kynaston could not be said to
puzzle her head much, but she did wonder

a little what had brought Charlie Devereux
to town in this somewhat mysterious way.
She reflected, also, that her husband was
not the man to throw dinners away, and
that from those upon whom he bestowed
his hospitality he was not so much apt to
expect, but to feel certain, of receiving
some return. What his object might be in
entertaining Mr. Devereux she could not
fathom; and she was still further bewildered
as to what had led him to entertain Mr.
Furzedon. About the latter Mrs. Kynaston
had her own opinion ; she might be somewhat
of a Bohemian, but she had mingled
too much with the best people not to know
good form " when she saw it, and her
instinct told her that Furzedon was not
quite a gentleman. He might pass as such
with most men, but a well-bred woman
would be sure to detect the base ring in the
metal.

Still, that was no business of hers. The
Major, as a rule, was a good husband in one

respect. Considering in how many others
he failed to deserve this definition, it was
well that he should have something to the
credit side of the ledger. He had scores of
dubious acquaintances — men at whom society
was wont to look somewhat askance,
men of whom, to put it mildly, there were
divers queer stories afloat — but. to do him
justice, he rarely asked these across his own
threshold, nor was Mrs. Kynaston ever
thrust into the slightest acquaintance with
them. When it was absolutely necessary
to his plans that such should make their
objectionable appearance, they were relegated
strictly to the Major's own den, and
his wife knew no more than that "somebody
on business " was closeted with him.

How 7 very often invitations are either
given or accepted which, on reflection,
people feel to have been a great mistake,
and Mrs. Kynaston' s luncheon invitation
had not long left her lips before she became
conscious that this was not exactly what

VOL. i. N

she wanted. There was no disguise about
her being quite willing to entertain them
all, but it suddenly occurred to her that she
did not want to entertain them all at the
same time, that to have a good gossip with
Lettie she wanted that young lady all to
herself ! That a tete-astute with Gilbert
Slade would be no doubt enjoyable, but
would rather lose its flavour with Mrs.
Connop and Miss Devereux being there to
assist at it. There was nothing mean about
Mrs. Kynaston. She was free-handed as
an Arab in the matter of hospitality ; her
impromptu " little lunches " were usually
successes, but on this occasion she felt that
she had not picked her guests with her
usual good judgment. However, she was
too much a woman of the world to be disconcerted
for a moment about a trifle like
this. To recollect a previous engagement,
which must necessitate the postponement
of their contemplated banquet, was easy,
and it was with many apologies to Mrs.

Connop for having spoken so carelessly that
Mrs. Kynaston took her departure. " It
was very stupid of me, hut really in the
season no one should speak without looking
at their engagement slate, and she really
had quite forgotten all about that water-party
at the Fitzgerald. I only wish,
Lettie, they had too, but I've promised
Mrs. Fitzgerald, and, as she has about the
longest and bitterest tongue in all London,
I aren't offend her. I don't know what
crimes niistfit not be laid at mv door should
I fail to put in an appearance. A line to
the Thermopolium will, of course, always
find you, Mr. Slade, and you must come
and see me before you wend your way
northwards. For the present, good-bye to
all of you." And then Mrs. Kynaston took
her departure.

Gilbert soon followed her example, and

had hardly left the house when Mrs. Connop

exclaimed, with a snap that made Lettie

start, " Now, what did she mean by that ? "

n 2

Mean ! Who ? What are you thinking
of, auntie ? "

Mrs. Kynaston ! Why did she suddenly
withdraw her invitation to lunch ? Don't
look so bewildered, child," continued Mrs.
Connop, merrily. " It does not much
matter, but I have mixed too much in the
world not to know that to say one thing
and mean another is by no means the
exclusive privilege of politicians. The
Fitzgerald' w r ater-party ! Rubbish! Doubtful
whether there are any Fitzgerald ; bet
any one Mrs. Kynaston is not going to them
tomorrow. She's a very glib liar, Lettie ;
quite good enough to deceive any man, and
most women ; but I'm a solicitor's widow,
my dear, and exceptionally gifted in the
detection of false speech."

Absurd, auntie ! You are too suspicious.
Kate is as liberal a soul as ever
lived, and little likely to be niggard of her
wine or her cutlets."

Nonsense ! It's not that I mean. I

have never seen Mrs. Kingston before, but
she changed her mind about having us to
lunch. I feel quite sure of it. It is of no
consequence, but I am curious about ' the
why. 5 "

You are prejudiced against Mrs. Kingston,
" said Lettie.

Xo, my dear, I am not ; but it is no use
pretending one does not take fancies or
aversions at first sight. Dogs, acting up to
the lights of their nature, often fight in real
earnest on first meeting. Reason tells me I
know nothing of Mrs. Kingston. Instinct
tells me to mistrust her."

Oh, auntie ! She is one of my greatest
friends," cried Miss Devereux.

I trust I am wrong, and that you may
never rue it. She's a very pretty, pleasant,
lady-like woman, but for all that Well !

The reason why I cannot tell,
I do not like thee, Dr. Fell.

Say no more, child ; but I don't take to
Mrs. Kingston."

CHAPTER XI.

A WAIF ON LIFE'S STREAM.

Let Dick Kynaston's habitation be where it
might, one thing was always an imperative
necessity. Most men affect more or less
to have a sanctum of their own, but with
Kynaston it was a bond fide den, into which
even the housemaid was jealously admitted.
It was furnished after the Major's own
peculiar fancy, and tobacco and the Racing
Calendar were predominant features in its
arrangement. There the owner, seated at
his writing-table, cigar in mouth, would
pore for hours over volumes of the great
Turf lexicon, and make astounding calculations
about weights, distances, and the

varied running of horses. He was as great
a votary of racing* as Norman Slade ; if he
had not studied so long, he had studied it
quite as attentively ; but there was this great
difference between the two men : whereas
the one loved it purely as a sport, and
exulted in seeing a good horse win, the other
regarded it much as one might the tables at
Monaco ; he looked upon it as a mere means
of gambling, and would infinitely sooner
have seen the good horse beaten, had it
profited him more. It is curious how this
greed for money so constantly is, on the
Turf, the cause of its pursuer's undoing. Is
not the legend still extant of that luckless
book-maker who, after months of infinite
patience and manipulation, had succeeded in
getting his horse into the Chester Cup at a
weight that made it a gift to him. Carefully
was the commission worked, and he succeeded
in plotting a coup that should have
made him and his associates rich men for
their lives. In a reckless moment, only a few

days before the event was to come off, in
his anxiety to let no money escape him, he
laid the odds to lose ten thousand pounds
against a horse, the owner of which had no
intention up to that time of sending it to
the banks of the Dee. Strange fatality!
That very horse upset the deep-laid scheme
by a neck, and turned the well-nigh mighty
triumph into bitter defeat and disaster.

It was very rarely that any of Dick
Kynaston's friends were made welcome to
what was conventionally called "the study."
Nor was it exactly the room in which a
man would elect to receive any one but an
extreme intimate. In Chester Street this
sanctuary was simply the back dining-room,
and, after the books and cigar-boxes, the
chief characteristics were a leathern armchair
and a large, plain, substantial writing-table.


The Major had no connection whatever
with literature, but he was certainly a man
with very extensive correspondence. The

letters he received and the replies thereto
were generally of the briefest, and a great
many of them were apparently from people
to whom the handling of a pen was a strange
and toilsome labour. Their spelling, like their
telegraphy, was of a doubtful order. There
was much uncertainty apparently amongst
them as to the orthodox way of spelling
Major," and they discovered more varieties
on that point than one would think so simple
a title was capable of. These correspondents
not uncommonly followed their letters.
Quiet, unassuming people, as a rule ; whose
dress might prompt a well-drilled servitor
to keep his eye on the umbrellas in the
hall, but who otherwise were unmistakeably
business visitors; and they were a strange
and curious lot, these jackals of the Major's.
It was a sad revelation of how educated
men who have sunk beneath life's stormy
waters are driven to get their living, to find
that amongst this little band several of them
were men well educated, and who once held

a good position ; ruined mostly by their own
mad folly, they had descended to the depths
of racecourse touts, or still more often had
become the tools of the professional usurers,
who in former days had helped them to
their ruin. The Major himself, very indignant
though he would have been had anyone
ventured to hint so, was simply one of
these latter in a very large way of business.
If he had burnt his fingers considerably, he
had not come to utter financial grief. He
had never forfeited membership of his clubs,
he still held his own very fairly socially, and
it was essential to his scheme of life that
Mrs. Kynaston should take her place in the
world, and be seen where that world of
some ten thousand people do please to congregate.
The difference between him and
his employed is obvious. To the well-dressed
denizens of Courland the spendthrift of
family and expectations was easily accessible,
which, of course, he was not to those more
ragged of his brethren long since cast out

from the gay scenes of their undoing. What
hardly-pressed young man would not welcome
the prosperous gentleman in broadcloth
and clean linen, who sympathised with
his embarrassments over a cigar, and wound
up by saying, " Deuce of a mistake, borrowing.
But, Lord ! what's the use of
preaching ! Young blood will run its
course. I never argue with a man who
must have money, unless he is trying to
demonstrate the possibility of having it
out of me. I'll give you a line to old
Moggs, if you like. He'll rob you, naturally
— they all do. It's their trade, but
he'll let you have it as cheap as any man
in London."

Amongst Dick Kynaston's habitual visitors
was that luckless individual who has
already twice flitted across the pages of
this narrative. ~\Ye have seen him righteously
struck to the earth by Purzedon outside
the lighthouse in the Haymarket.
Unjustifiable though the provocation was,

it was questionable whether the striker
should not have refrained from that blow.
We have met him again as a mere racecourse
tout at Lincoln Races, speaking in
the slang vernacular of his tribe, and yet
Prance was a man of good education, who
had known a much better position, and
who, though some years older than Ralph
Furzedon, had been tempted by that precocious
young gentleman to his undoing.
How that happened will appear later; for
the present it suffices to say that to Dick
Kynaston he is a mere purveyor of racing
intelligence, picked up it is impossible to
say how, but at all times worth listening to,
as the Major has discovered from experience.
That there had ever been the slightest connection
between Furzedon and Mr. Prance,
Kynaston was totally unaware. Had he
been a spectator of that scene in the Hay-market
no one would have been keener to
know what called forth the final malediction
launched against Ralph Furzedon, and what

had been the previous relations between the
pair to warrant the bitter intensity in which
it was couched. The ordinary rough, who,
in his avocation of robbery, gets knocked
down, may swear a little, but takes it
usually after the manner of his betters, as a
mishap in the matter of business ; but, as
we know, the casual lookers-on had felt that
no ordinary discomfiture in a street row
could have brought forth the animosity concentrated
in Mr. Prance's curse.

It is the morning after the Majors little
dinner at the Thermopolium that, while
engaged in those mystic calculations somewhat
akin to the researches of the old
alchemists in their untiring, though unavailing,
endeavours to transmute baser
metals into gold, the Major was informed
that " a person " wanted to see him. Like
the old alchemists, Kynaston had discovered
that much more human but baser secret,
that it is quite possible to induce the weaker
portion of humanity to part with their small

store of wealth with a view to increasing it.
Now, " a person to see you " is an announcement
disturbing to a considerable portion of
society generally. The " person to see you "
is apt to be a very undesirable person to
interview — apt to either want money in
some form, or be the bearer of disagreeable
intelligence. We all know it except those
affluent past redemption, and for whom some
special paradise of their own must be preserved,
or those, and they are a very limited
number, whose record is so entirely blameless
that they can laugh at the idea of the
limelight being turned upon it. But the
Major was used to this curt announcement.
He neither dreaded that Miss Minnever
had called to say that unless she had one
hundred on Mrs. Kynaston's account she
should be compelled to take legal proceedings
; nor had he any fear of similar threats
from creditors on his own account. Dick
Kynaston was a business man in this wise :
whatever he might have done once, he was

a pretty rigidly ready money man now. He
made his wife a fairly liberal allowance, but
he had given her pretty sharply to understand
that this must never be exceeded. Therefore
this announcement brought no misgivings
to his mind.

Another minute, and the servant had
ushered into his room Mr. Prance.

"Well," said the Major, "what is it ? Sit
down, and don't let us waste any time about
it. Te know one another pretty well now.
If you merely want money, say so. You
know I'm usually good for a trifle, and I
will tell you at once what I can let you
have. If you've brought me information,
you know very well that you can trust me
to pay for it, if I find it valuable."

Well, Major," replied Prance, as he
seated himself in a chair, " I've brought
you a bit of Turf information which, I
think, is worth your taking note of. I
can't say it's valuable, probably never maybe.
You're a business man, and I don't

expect you'll ever think you owe me anything
on that account. But I've got something
else to say to you. I believe you
were hunting up in the wolds of Lincolnshire
last year. Didn't you make the acquaintance
of a Mr. Devereux ? We both
saw him ride at Lincoln, and, mind you, he
will ride some day, but he's got to practise
a bit yet. Now, I've heard something
about that young gentleman. He's got into
trouble a bit, and, from the little that I can
learn, is falling into about the worst hands
that could happen to any young man starting
in life."

It took a good deal to astonish the Major,
but that Prance should be aware that he
was mixed up in Charlie Devereux's affairs
did surprise him. He hesitated a little before
he made answer. It was scarcely likely
that a man like Prance would presume to
come and tell him to his face that he was
no fit mentor for youth. Prance, with a
direct pecuniary interest in keeping on good

terms with him, was hardly likely to commit
himself in this fashion. What did he mean ?
What did he know ? What could the fellow
be driving at ?

Yes," replied the Major, slowly, " I
know Mr. Charles Devereux and all his
people, but I am not aware that he has
fallen into particularly bad hands."

Did you ever come across a man of the
name of Furzedon ? " said Prance, lowering
his voice.

"I know a gentleman of that name,"
replied Kynaston, as he rose from his chair
and assumed a lounging attitude against the
mantelpiece.

Gentleman ! " retorted the other with a
bitter sneer. " You may call him that if
you like. There's a good many travel under
that name who, if it means anything like
straightforwardness and honesty, have little
right to it. From the little I've seen, but
more from what I've heard, I believe that

vol. i. o

Furzedon is a great friend of Mr. Devereux's."


Mr. Furzedon, you mean," observed the
Major, quietly.

No, sir, I don't," rejoined Prance, doggedly.
" I'll call him ' that Furzedon.' But
if you re a friend of Mr. Devereux's tell him
to take care of himself, for that he's intimate
with as slippery a young scoundrel as
ever trod the Heath at Newmarket."

Surely, Mr. Purzedon does very little in
that way ? "

u Look here, Major," said his visitor,
"you go about a good deal, and are supposed
to have cut your eye-teeth, just judge
for yourself. Another hint, and it's worth
a sovereign, too. I don't know what sort of
a card-player you are, but, if ever you take
a hand with Purzedon, don't be too sure of
getting the best of it."

"Ah ! " rejoined the Major, " I don't suppose
that is very likely to happen, but it is
worth a trifle to know that your antagonist

is of the highest class when you sit down.
How you recollect what I asked you to find
out if possible. Have you succeeded ? "

I don't know that I can quite say that,"
replied Prance, diffidently, " and I shall
have to write to you again on the subject,
still, as far as I can make out, they have got
no first-class two-year-old in the Northern
stables."

All right ! " replied the Major, as he
handed the tout a gratuity. " If you discover
one later on, you must let me know.
And now, good-bye," and a curt nod of
dismissal indicated to Mr. Prance that his
audience was terminated.

Ah ! " said the Major to himself, after
his visitor had left the room, " I was somewhat
deceived in that young man. I did not
think him a fool, but I had no idea he was
so precociously clever. I must study him a
bit. I wonder how much he has had to say
to young Devereux's losses ? I shouldn't
wonder if my friend Prance knows an ugly
o2

story or two about him, the possession of
which would render him very amenable to
reason if he and I should ever happen to
differ? And it's a quarrelsome world,"
mused the Major, " and men lose their temper
as often as they do their money, and
sometimes, sad to say, both simultaneously."
Mr. Prance's hint was quite a revelation to
the Major. He had regarded Furzedon as a
quiet, tolerably well-mannered young man,
not at all likely to exhibit speculative tastes,
but, according to this informant, Mr. Furze-don
was an exceedingly astute young one,
with a decided taste for gambling in every
form. Dick Kynaston had been brought up
too much amongst " the right people " not
to detect that there was a dash of Brummagem
about Ralph Furzedon. He was a very
good imitation, but the initiated could not
fail to see that he was not quite genuine.
The base coin appears good money to the
eye, but it won't ring, it jars upon the ear
when put to that test, and similarly Furze-don,

though at first he thoroughly passed
muster, when you came to associate with
him, jarred a little on the feelings. You
couldn't quite indicate the flaw, but you
felt intuitively that he was not quite a gentleman.


Suddenly a thought flashed across the
Major's mind. A confederate might be useful
in many of the transactions in which he
was habitually engaged, especially a confederate
over whom he had a hold. And
this he thought, through Prance, very possible
in the case of Ralph Furzedon. There
was plenty of time to make inquiries, for he
had no particular scheme on foot at the present
moment that required a coadjutor. The
Major then seated himself at his writing-table,
and made some brief and mysterious
memoranda in his betting-book, without
which volume, unless perchance it had been
in his bath, Dick Kynaston had for years
never been met with.

CHAPTER XII.

BOB Paddock's CONDITIONS.

"So I'm to be civil to Mr. Purzedon, am
I?" mused Mrs. Kynaston, as she sat in her
pretty drawing-room the day after her meeting
with Miss Devereux. " Now I wonder
what that means. Dick never gives me
those instructions without a reason. I don't
particularly fancy Mr. Purzedon myself ; I
wonder what Lettie thinks of him. She had
ample opportunity of studying him during
the month he was at North Leach ; however,
as she is coming to lunch here, I shall
have an opportunity of ascertaining."

Miss Devereux was true to her appointment,
and the two ladies sat down to their

meal tete-astute. After gossiping gaily over
various subjects, Lettie asked her friend
whether she thought there was any chance
of their taking The Firs again next winter.

1 am sure I can't say' replied Mrs.
Kynaston. "You see men like my husband
now and then don't hunt at all. Dick will
race, and there are bad years as well as
good ones at that amusement ; and then we
can't afford horses. The Firs is a cheap
place, but I don't think Dick quite liked it.
He prefers a more thickly populated neighbourhood.
By the way, have you seen anything
of that Mr. Furzedon who was staying
with you last winter ? "

Oh, yes ; he called the other day. He
has quite done with Cambridge, you know,
now, and is settled in London."

Yes," replied Kate, " I have an idea he
is trying hard to push his way into London
society. What did you think of him,
Lettie?"

He made himself very pleasant while he

was with us — was very good-natured, and
seemed to enjoy himself."

All of which, my dear," said Mrs. Kynaston,
laughing, " does not give me the
slightest insight into what you think of him.
Do you consider him quite good form ? Is
he of the same stamp as Mr. Slade, for instance
? "

"No," rejoined Miss Devereux, quickly;
but he is a soldier, and there is something
different about soldiers, you know. I am
so anxious that Charlie should become one.
He is much too fond of hunting to become
a clergyman, and I'm sure he would never
do any good as a barrister, and he must be
something."

"Quite so," replied Mrs. Kynaston, with
mock gravity; "men must be something, if it
is only to keep them out of mischief, and
they don't always do that. Charlie would
make a very dashing hussar; and I ought to bea
judge, for I knew the ringing of bits and
bridles well in my early married days. Dick

didn't sell out for a couple of years after
we married. Mr. Slade is good-looking,"
she continued, after a momentary pause.
"Don't you think so?"

"Yes," rejoined Lettie ; "it is one of those
dark, handsome faces we are all apt to go
wild about."

He can be very agreeable too when he
likes. I hope you found him so the other
day at Lady Rainsbury's."

"Very much so," replied Miss Devereux.
I am glad to sav that there is a chance of
seeing a little of him next winter."

How so ?" inquired Mrs. Kynaston.

His regiment has been moved up to
York, and the dragoons from there often
come down to our county balls ; besides, he
has declared that he will come down and see
Polestar run at Lincoln in the autumn."

Mrs. Kynaston cast one quick look at her
companion, and wondered how far she and
Mr. Slade were interested in each other.
Kate Kynaston felt almost inclined to

resent this idea. She had commenced a
slight flirtation with Gilbert at Lincoln;
and when Mrs. Kynaston did that she was
wont to regard a man as her own peculiar
property, and looked for unswerving allegiance
on his part Like many women of
her type, she was very good-tempered and
pleasant till you happened to interfere with
any of her schemes or caprices ; and then
one who should have known her well — for
had he not been in the toils ? — said,

You may look out for squalls ; you've
got one of the cleverest women in England
against you, and it's long odds she carries
her point, more especially if she is playing
against a man."

Gilbert Slade is lounging in the smoking-room
of the Thermopolium with a view to,
if possible, catching hold of Major Braddock.
He had promised to consult his uncle as to
whether he could assist young Devereux to
a nomination for the army, a fact which,
when it came to Mrs. Kynaston's ears, disconcerted

that lady not a little. She argued
that when men exerted themselves to assist
young ladies' brothers, they, at all events,
have considerable admiration for the vous;
lady herself; and Mrs. Kynaston, upon very
insufficient grounds, considered that Gilbert
had no business just at present to admire
anybody but Kate Kynaston. She need
not have perturbed herself, that insouciant
hussar thought of his two recent acquaintances
only as a couple of pretty, agreeable
women ; but he certainly did go this length,
that of she two he preferred Miss Devereux.
No very great preference, perhaps, but still
such it was as far as it went. It would
have angered both ladies to know that what
occupied his mind at the present moment
much more than their fair selves was the
nuisance of having to go back to York.
York was all very well when you came to
the grouse-time, the races, and the hunting ;
but York during the London season was
unendurable. He loathed the loud blare of

the barrack-yard; he knew how hot and
dusty Coney Street would be; everybody
would be away, and an evening country ride
without any object was not much for a man
to look forward to. " No wonder," he
muttered, "we soldiers drink a good deal
of claret, and rather stiffen our points
at whist in these dull country quarters.
What a deuce of a bore it is having to go
back."

When his uncle entered the smoking-room
he at once confided his grievances to

him ; but that veteran simply " cl d his

impudence," and called him a discontented
young dog. "By Jove, sir," he said, "it
would do you a lot of good to get a good
rattling Irish out station. I had one once
myself. My troop was detached from Dundalk;
there wasn't a soul to speak to, and
as for dining, I didn't do such a thing for
four months;" and the Major quite shuddered
at the hardships he had undergone
upon that occasion.

It's a wonder you ever pulled through,"
said Gilbert laughing.

I don't know that I should have done
so," replied his uncle, twinkling his eye,
if I hadn't made friends with the priest.
He had some marvellous whisky, and was
the only man I ever met who could really
brew whisky punch. By Jove, sir, I lived
upon it. lie taught me to play l spoiled five,'
and I'd just get through the evening that
way till the cards began to get hazy, and I
felt it was time to go home. It's a beautiful
game, spoiled five ; but his reverence
used to take the sixpences out of me amazingly
; I dare say he played a better game,
but I know he had a better head for
punch."

You think he rather rooked you, then ?"
said Gilbert.

Pooh, nonsense ! we played for merely
nominal stakes ; but Father O'Shea was a
keen card-player, and, like Mrs. Battle,
loved the rigour of the game. I was generally

foggy towards the end of the proceedings."


I say, uncle," said Gilbert quietly,
you've lots of interest, you know, at the
Horse Guards ; do you think you could get
a nomination for a commission for a young
fellow in whom I am interested ?"

Young fellow in whom you are interested
! friend of yours, I presume ?"

Well, I can't exactly say that," rejoined
Slade ; " for the fact is I barely
know him."

"Then what the deuce do you mean''
rejoined the Major ; " you can't expect me
to go bothering at the Horse Guards to ask
favours for your slight acquaintances."

Well," rejoined the hussar, coolly, " his
sister is a deuced nice girl, and I've promised
to do what I can to help her in this
matter."

Major Braddock's sole reply was a low
chuckle, and an expressive wink. The
suspicion of a sentimental affair was apt to

arouse the mirth of that bon vivant, who
believed in nothing but sensual gratification.


I say, Bertie, my boy, spoons at your
time of life is only natural. You will find
out the vanity of it before you're much
older. Only, as far as my authority goes,
and remember you'll have most of my
dollars when I go, I bar matrimony before
you've got your troop. If you don't think
you are better as a bachelor, then, please
yourself. I've nothing more to say against
it."

Your warning is quite uncalled for,"
rejoined Gilbert Slade. " One may like and
admire a girl without the slightest thought
of marrying her. Besides, I am quite of
your opinion. It ought to be made illegal
for subalterns to marry. But will you help
me in this matter ?"

"I can't say. You admit you know nothing
about this young fellow. I've no
doubt his sister is a nice, ladylike girl.

You are not likely to make a mistake about
that. But the prettiest and nicest of them
are sometimes cursed with the most objectionable
brothers."

I can assure you young Devereux will
pass muster."

"Not a bit of use, Master Bertie. I'll
not go begging till I have seen him. I've
too great a regard for Her Majesty's service
to inflict upon any regiment a youngster
whom his brother officers might feel ought
never to have been amongst them. Let me
see him, and then, if I conscientiously can,
I'll do my best for him."

I am afraid there will be some little difficulty
about that," said Bertie, meditatively.

I can't help it," replied the Major,
testily. " I have told you I won't back a
dark horse. You surely can't be afraid to

show him, because that's enough to d

him at once."

Nonsense, uncle Robert ; it's not that.
The slight difficulty is this : That he is at

the present moment at Cambridge, and I
don't know whether he can set away ; while
at the same time my leave is running out,
and I must return to York. Of course I
can sav nothing until I have seen Miss
Devereux ; but I don't quite see my way
into bringing: you together before the end
of the season. And when I am in town in
the winter you are as likely as not to be
staying at some country house or another."
Can't be helped, Bertie," returned the
Major, doggedly ; " as I said before, I'll see
him before I back him. How it is to be
managed is your business ; but if you ask us
to meet at dinner, for goodness sake, my
dear boy, let me run my eye over the menu.
Boys of your age never understand eating.

• Man may live without love — what is passion but

pining ?
But where is the man who can live without dining ? '"

There was no more poetry in the Major
than in an oyster, and I question much
whether he knew anything about " Owen

vol. i. p

Meredith's " poem as a whole, hut that
one passage he certainly had by heart, he
thoroughly endorsed every line of it, and
was rather given to quoting it.

Gilbert felt there was no more to be said.
His uncle had delivered his ultimatum, and
the bringing of Charlie and Major Braddock
together he felt could only be compassed
after consultation with Miss Devereux. He
nodded to his uncle as the latter left the
room, and continued to smoke on in silent
meditation. He had, at all events, successfully
accomplished the first step. He had
no fear but what Charlie Devereux would
pass muster with the Major, and the veteran
had given his word to interest himself in his
behalf should that be the case.

It must be remembered that the days of
which I am writing were before the time of
competition, when a nomination for a regiment
held good, providing you passed a
certain specified examination, a more practical
test to my mind than the present

system, which is calculated to furnish the
army with excellent linguists and arith-
nieticians, but not quite the best stuff from
which soldiers are made. I am afraid this
higher knowledge is of little account in the
field, however telling it may be in the classroom.
There was a hero who won the V.C.
scarce a decade ago, whom rumour declared
had been twice " plucked " in one of the
ceaseless examinations that now dog the
steps of the unfortunate British officer, but
he had great determination, quickness, and
grit, which served him in better stead that
dav than science or the gift of tongues.

The one thing quite clear to Gilbert Slade
is that he must see Miss Devereux without
loss of time, and accordingly, as soon as it
became near the canonical hour for calling,
he wended his way towards Onslow Gardens.
He arrived there somewhat early, but he
did this with intention, as he honestly
wanted to get in. To his inquiry as to
whether Mrs. Conn op was at home, he received

an answer in the affirmative, and was
duly ushered upstairs. To his dismay lie
found that estimable lady alone, and after
the warning he had received the other day
from Miss Devereux he knew that it would
be imprudent to ask her for ber nephew's
address. However, there could be no harm
in asking after Lettie, and his mind was
considerably lightened when he ascertained
that that young lady was not only in,
but w r ould probably be down in a few
minutes.

She is just putting on her bonnet, Mr.
Slade, as we are going over to Lady Rarns-
bury's for a cup of tea, and intend to have
a turn in the Park afterwards."

A few minutes' lively conversation, for
Mrs. Connop was by no means one of those
women whom talking to becomes painful
and wearisome labour, and then Lettie
entered the room, looking, as Slade thought,
handsomer than he had ever seen her yet.
She greeted Gilbert with much cordiality,

and then, to Slade's great relief, Mrs. Connop
got up, and said, laughingly :

I must leave you to take care of Mr.
Slade, Lettie. I am sure you will excuse
me for a few minutes," she added, turning
to Gilbert, " but I also must array myself
for our drive."

I wanted much to see you alone for a
few minutes, Miss Devereux," said Gilbert,
as the door closed. u I have lost no time
in seeing if I could be of any assistance to
your brother in obtaining a commission.
Now, my uncle, popularly known as ' Jolly
Bob Bracldock,' can, as I told you, help him,
if he chooses, and he has promised he will if
he likes him."

Likes him ! " repeated Lettie. " But
that is rather a doubtful thing."

You don't know the Major, and therefore
you can't quite understand. He is
straight as a die, but he won't exert his
influence to procure a commission for any
young fellow whom he does not consider

pleasant and a gentleman — in short, he
insists upon seeing him."

Oh dear ! " exclaimed Lettie, with a
comic expression of despair, " this is terrible.
It's worse than going in for his
6 small.' "

Nothing of the kind," replied Gilbert.
There will be no trouble about it if I can
only get hold of your brother at once, and
induce him to meet my uncle at the .
As long as his dinner is all right
and, as we have agreed that he is to have
the ordering of it, it will be hard lines if it
isn't — Charlie will pass muster triumphantly,
and, I hope, spend a pleasant evening. But,
you see, my time in London is limited, and
the question is, Can he get away from
Cambridge ? "

He is away, Mr. Slade ; I believe him
to be in London at this minute, though I
don't know his address ; but I think it very
possible I may in the course of the day. I
have written to a great friend of his, who is

pretty certain to know where he is staying,
and I will let yon know the moment I hear.
He is very keen upon this army idea, and, I
am sure, would make a great effort in answer
to your kindness ; and it really is very kind
of you, Mr. Slade, to have taken so much
trouble for people of whom you know so
little as you do of us."

That is a fault to be amended, Miss
Devereux," rejoined Gilbert. " You cast
your bread upon the waters that bitter afternoon
at Lincoln, and won undying gratitude
from a half-famished man."

*' It is very good of you to make so little
of the service you are rendering us." And,
as Lettie spoke, the door opened, and Mrs.
Connop sailed into the room.

Gilbert felt that his mission was accomplished,
and, though he would willingly have
prolonged his tete-astute, there was nothing
left him now but to put the ladies into their
carriage and take his departure.

CHAPTER XIII.

SEEKING A COMMISSION.

Mr. Furzedon was a little puzzled on the
receipt of Miss Devereux's note. There was
no difficulty about giving Charlie's address,
but it was just possible that young gentleman,
for the day or two he was in town,
might not care about seeing his relations.
What had brought him up Furzedon did not
know ; he had had no opportunity of private
conversation with him at Dick Kingston's
dinner, but he did know that unless the
University had intimated they could dispense
with Mr. Devereux's presence for
some time or even altogether, that his stay
in London must be very short. However,

after a few minutes' consideration, it was
obvious to liii that the best thing to do
would be to consult Charlie himself on that
point. That young gentleman, as soon ashe
had read the note, observed, "All right,
I didn't mean going to Onslow Gardens, but
Let tie is a clear-headed girl, and wouldn't
particularly want to see me unless she had
good reason for it. I had no idea my respected
aunt knew I was in town, or else I
should have gone up there yesterday. Mrs.
Connop has a great idea as to what is due
to her from her nephews and nieces, and,
as she is a regular trump, I wouldn't offend
lier for the world."

You'd be a precious fool if you did,"
rejoined Furzedon. " She's good, no doubt,
for many years to come, but she has money
to leave behind her whenever she makes an
end of it."

I wasn't thinking of that," rejoined
Charlie curtly. " I only remembered she
was always a jolly kind aunt to me from my

schoolboy days, when she used to take me to
the pantomime, till last winter, when she
gave me a cheque for fifty pounds to buy
another hunter with."

I see," replied Furzedon, " one of those
beneficent goclmamas that only exist in
fairy tales. This is the first I ever heard of
in real life."

Perhaps not. I fancy aunt Connop is
a sort you don't often come across."

"Well, good morning," rejoined Furzedon.
I shall write a line to Miss Devereux to
say that you'll be in Onslow Gardens this
afternoon. An independent aunt who is
lavish of cheques for fifty is a relative to
cling to, take my word for it."

Charlie's appearance in Onslow Gardens
that afternoon speedily made his peace with
Mrs. Connop. With that lady, indeed, he
was an especial favourite. She liked him
better considerably than his steady-going
brother, and, though very fond of Lettie,
perhaps cared more about the scapegrace of

the family than her niece. Charlie had
never done anything very terrible, but he
had a knack — some men have — of being
incessantly in scrapes. He had never come
actually to grief, but from, his earliest days
he had occasioned considerable anxiety to
his family by perpetually hovering on the
brink of it. Lettie was his most trusted
counsellor, and in small financial muddles,
at her instigation, Mrs. Connop had more
than once come to the rescue. Clear-headed
Lettie saw, thai, with a nature like her
brother's, the sooner he was set to some
serious work the better. She knew he was
doing no good at the University, and she
was now very hot upon his getting into the
army as soon as possible. You can't keep
a man in leading-strings, but to let him
saunter through life with no occupation is
bad for any, destruction to some.

The preliminary greetings over, Lettie
plunged at once in nicias res, and had the
satisfaction of finding both her auditors

thoroughly with her. Mrs. Connop was as
keen that Charlie should enter the army ashe
was to get into it, and said that, to see
her nephew a dragoon, she would not at all
grudge contributing handsomely towards his
outfit. And then Lettie went on to tell
Charlie how she had persuaded Mr. Slade
to ask his uncle, Major Braddock, to interest
himself in his— Charlie's— favour, and how
that distinguished officer had promised todo
so, providing that he approved of this
candidate for military honours.

But, Charlie, Major Braddock will see
you-to use Mr. Slade's words, he won't
recommend a recruit he hasn't himself inspected;
but Mr. Slade says— and it's
awfully kind of him — that, if you could
manage to dine with him at the 
one day next week, he will get his
uncle to meet you."

It is very good of him," replied Charlie,
and I will manage it if he will only let me
know what day ; but remember, I must go

back to Cambridge to-night. I have only
leave for three days " (he didn't think it
necessary to mention that he had obtained
leave of absence for three days under pretext
of consulting a London physician) ; " but
I can always manage to run up and get
back by the first train in the morning "
And Charlie felt, though he did not venture
to express it, that he would willingly risk
being sent down, sooner than miss this
chance of getting a nomination for a profession
he had now set his heart on.

"Very well, then," said Lettie; " I shall
write and tell him you will gratefully accept
his invitation, if he will forward it to your
Cambridge address."

That's all right," rejoined Charlie gleefully.
" And now, aunt, I must say goodbye.
You are a trump, Lettie ; " and having
given his sister a hearty kiss, and shaken
hands with his aunt, Charlie shot down the
stairs and made his way back to Duke
Street.

Charlie's meditations were a little mixed
as he walked westward He was in high
spirits at the idea of the opening which
presented itself to him ; bnt the usual
bitterness was mingled in the cup, to wit,
that he would have to make some arrangements
about those confounded bills. Still,
his aunt Connop had just distinctly said
that she would come down with something
handsome to see him a dragoon. Perhaps
she would see him out of this scrape. She
had done so once or twice before in a small
way, but Charlie felt rather afraid of confessing
the extent of his misdoings this time
to his sister, and she was the medium
through which he generally approached his
aunt. However, he thought, " Only let me
once get into the army, and some of them,
I think, are bound to see me through it."

As he passed through Piccadilly Charlie
took out his watch, and wondered whether
he had time to turn into Chester Street,
and call upon Mrs. Kynaston. He was

beginning now to entertain a lively appreciation
of that lady's charms. In the 
she had a serious rival in the
goddess Diana, for the prettiest woman in
England would have had to ride hard and
straight to keep Charlie in her company
while hounds were running, hut in London
it was very different. There Mrs. Kynaston
had no rival in Charlie's estimation, and,
miss his train or not, he determined to call.
Yes, Mrs. Kynaston was at home," so the
servant informed him, and he was duly
ushered into that lady's pretty little drawing-room
in Chester Street.

She received him with much empressement,
for he really was a favourite of hers,
and was quite aware of his admiration for
herself. She thought sometimes with a
saucy air of triumph of their first meeting,
and how utterly oblivious he had been to
the fact that he was doing escort to a very
pretty woman, and Kate Kynaston would

softly murmur to herself, " Things would be
very different now, I think."

Delighted to see you, Mr. Devereux.
Are you up in town for long ? Heard you
were dining with my husband last night ;
but I suppose they don't give you a long
furlough from Cambridge ?"

"No," laughed Charlie; "very short,
indeed, but I hope soon— yes, very soon —
to have done with it. I have a chance of
entering the army, and if that comes off I
shall cut Cambridge at once. Don't you
think I shall be right ? "

Yes, indeed, I do," replied Mrs. Kynaston.
" You will make a very fair dragoon,
and I don't think you ' frame ' for
anything like bookworm."

"That's just what Lettie says," exclaimed
Charlie.

Yes. The life will just suit you — and
remember I speak as a woman having
experience."

I don't think I am clever," replied
Devereux, laughing ; " but you needn't tell
a fellow so, Mrs. Kynaston. I think I can
ride a bit, and play a decent game of
billiards. I had some tough battles with
the Major the other night, and had decidedly
the best of it."

u Perhaps he was not in form," replied
Mrs. Kynaston, drily. " My husband takes
a good deal of beating in a general way."

"And I flatter myself I do also," rejoined
Charlie, a little piqued. "No, I honestly
believe I am a few points better than the
Major."

Well, perhaps, it is so," replied Mrs.
Kynaston, " only recollect that my husband
has had far wider experience than you have-had.
He is apt to play carelessly except for
money."

We had a trifle on, just to make it interesting,"
replied Charlie.

"Well, perhaps, you are the best," said

VOL. I. Q

Mrs. Kynaston, indifferently, " only I
wouldn't be too sure. How is Polestar ? "

"Doing wonderfully well, I hear, and
very much improved since we got so disgracefully
beaten at Lincoln. I hope to
avenge my defeat there in the autumn, and
that you will be there to see it."

I hope so too," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston.
But our movements at present are very
uncertain. The Major never makes up his
mind until the end of the season, and very
often not until the end of October."

Major Kynaston's movements were in
good truth governed considerably by his
financial success on the Turf, as his wife had
confided to Lettie, but Mrs. Kynaston was
not likely to enter into such confidences with
Charlie.

And when do you expect to go up for
your inspection ? Lettie told me all about
it, and I know that you are to be paraded before
Major Braddock. I trust that the wine
may be properly iced, and that the cook may

have done his devoirs deftly," continued Mrs.
Kynaston, laughing. " I suppose you know
that a mistake in a side-dish, or the claret
served at an undue temperature, may nip
your aspirations in the bud ? "

Yes," replied Charlie, joining in her
laugh, " I have heard that Major Braddock
regards dinner as a very solemn function ;
but we are to dine at his own club, and
surely there should be safety in that. I
should think the chef for his own sake would
do his best for Major Braddock."

There is much worldly wisdom in your
speech," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston. " Gour-nets
like Major Braddock ' back their bills
and make bitter the lives of both cook and
committee should even their mutton-chop
not be done to the exact turn."

"Let us hope the Pates will be propitious.
And now, Mrs. Kynaston, I must wish you
good-bye, for I have but just time to pack
up my traps and catch my train."

Good-bye, and may all success attend
Q2

you. Write as soon as you know ; or,
better still, come and tell me you are to bea
dragoon."

Kate Kynaston sat plunged in reverie for
some time after Charlie had taken his departure.
She knew her husband too well to
suppose that the light-hearted boy would
have any chance with him at cards or
billiards. What could Dick mean ? He
surely did not intend to plunder such small
game as Charlie Devereux, and yet that the
latter had any chance with her husband at
billiards or cards she did not believe for
one moment. Poor Kate ! it was far from
her nature to turn hawk, and she had
winced at first when her eyes were opened
to the fact that Dick Kynaston got his
living for the most part by his skill in all
description of " play." But she soon grew
callous, and even stooped to make use of
her own smiles and bright eyes to lure men
into her husband's net. But she was loyal
to her favourites, and Dick, though he ruled

her with an iron hand, on the whole knew
that now and again she would stand no
plundering of the innocents. It was on
behalf of the young ones Kate chiefly interfered.
Her elder admirers, she deemed,
ought to he able to take care of themselves,
but she would interfere sharply sometimes
on behalf of her boyish adorers, and she was
just the sort of woman whom quite young
men especially worship. I don't mean to
say that Kate Kynaston had not plenty of
men of all ages at her feet, but she had a
quiet way with her that put " young ones "
at their ease in the first half-hour. jSo, she
would not have this thing. She would tell
Dick that he must stay his hand as far as
Charlie Devereux was concerned. She knew
that he was wild, and she knew that he was
weak, but she would not have it on her conscience
that she stood by and saw this boy
ruined on the threshold of his career. She
was submissive in general, and Dick Kynaston
was not the man to bear the thwarting

of his schemes patiently, but this matter
should he speedily settled between them,
and she would let him know that Charlie
Devereux must be spared.

Then her thoughts ran back to the old
channel. She did not deceive herself in the
least. She knew that her liking for Gilbert
Slade was growing on her. She knew it
from the dismay with which she had learnt
that he had interfered in Charlie Devereux's
behalf at Lettie's request. Gilbert, she
argued, must be much struck with that
young lady to take all this trouble on her
brother's account. She had taken a great
fancy to Lettie, but unfortunately she had
taken an equally strong one for Slade, and
when two such friendships clash it is pretty
safe to predict that the woman will be
thrown over in favour of the man.

Again, Mrs. Kynaston had chosen, in
virtue of her prior acquaintance, to regard
Gilbert Slade as her own peculiar property.
How very slight that acquaintance had been

was shown by the fact that when he met
her on old Tom Devereux's drag at Lincoln
he had failed to remember her. True, Gilbert
had devoted himself to her upon that
occasion more than to Lettie, but a man
would have laughed at Mrs. Kingston's
entertaining such an idea that she held
right of vassalage over Gilbert, though a
woman would perfectly have understood it,
and have divined in a moment that the
friendship of those two would be of short
duration now that Mrs. Kynaston's jealousy
was aroused. That lady, rousing herself at
length from her reverie, sprang to her feet,
and, as she paced up and down the drawing-room,
was quite as determined that Lettie
Devereux should never wed Gilbert Slade
as that her husband should not plunder the
brother.

CHAPTER XIV.

CHARLIE ON PROBATION.

Gilbert Slade contrived to see a good deal
of Miss Devereux during this last fortnight.
As the diplomatist who had the arranging
a meeting between Charlie and Major Braddock
on the most favourable terms, he found
it necessary to consult Lettie very often.
The Major usually, and more especially at
this time of year, had pretty numerous
engagements in the dinner way. Therefore
it was necessary to ascertain, first, what
evening would suit him. Then it was imperative
that Charlie should be written to,
and told that if anything should prevent his

attending on that occasion he must telegraph
at once, as otherwise he would create
a most unfavourable impression on the
Major, who regarded engagements of this
sort as bonds of the most solemn description.
Charlie also had to be cautioned against the
heinous sin of punctuality. Very fond
was the Major of laying down the axiom,
that to be late on such an occasion was an
insult both to your host and his cook.
When in the army he had been always
given to harrying the subalterns about being
late for mess. Punctuality on other
parades he might look over, but not on this
one ; so that altogether Gilbert was a good
deal in Onslow Gardens. However, at last
everything was arranged. Charlie had been
most carefully tutored, as far as Lettie,
inspired by Slade, could do so by the post.
He had even been tutored into studying
"Lucille." and warned, if he saw a fair
opportunity, to fire off the following quotation
from that poem : —

We may live without friends,
We may live without books ;

But civilised men

Cannot live without cooks."

"I am so very anxious," said Lettie, when
the important day was finally fixed. " I do
so hope Charlie will acquit himself creditably.
I have done as you told me. I have
warned him to be highly appreciative of the
good things set before him; but to be a
little diffident as to giving an opinion about
the wine."

"Quite right!" said Gilbert, laughing.
"Very young men are apt to set up as
judges in that respect, and I know that
always moves uncle Bob's wrath. I even
once heard him assert that no man knew
anything about wine until he had had a fit
of the gout."

But," cried Lettie, " men don't always
have the gout, do they?"

I fancy my uncle and his cronies are
unanimous concerning that complaint. We

must only hope that he is not disposed to it
just now."

"It is very good of you, Mr. Slade, to
take all this trouble for nie, and I am very
grateful to you ; but I feel wof ally nervous
about Charlie's ordeal. Your uncle seems
somewhat peculiar."

Not at all, Miss Devereux ; not more so
than the generality of mankind. The only
thing is, that, as I want Charlie to show to
the best advantage, I'm s^ivin^ you a chart
of the country. We have most of us peculiarities,
and it is just our clashing of these
that makes people take a dislike to us when
we first meet them."

It is very good of you, and I can't be
sufficiently grateful."

"Don't think of it," interrupted Gilbert ;
I'm only too pleased that I managed to
arrange the matter before my time was up.
I must leave London the day after tomorrow,
and I was so afraid that it might
not come off."

But I shall see you again before you
go?" said Lettie.

"Oh, yes, I'll come clown tomorrow afternoon,
if you'll allow me, and tell you how
things went off. And now I must say
adieu. Depend on it, it will be all right,
Miss Devereux. Uncle Bob is a good-natured
fellow, though perhaps over-fond
of his dinner, and has always done anything
I wanted ; " and with these words
of encouragement Gilbert Slade took his
departure.

Lettie was very anxious that Charlie
should get into the army. She had been
greatly pleased with the enthusiasm he
showed at the prospect, and it was therefore
no wonder that she should be anxious about
his success.

"It's odd," thought Lettie, "but really
at present his chance seems to depend on
the caprice of a middle-aged gentleman."
Then she thought how very kind Mr. Slade
had been about the whole business ; and

then I think her whole reverie rather concentrated
itself on Mr. Slade himself. It is
a very easy transition, when the subject is
a good-looking young man, to glide from
how very kind " to " how very nice " he
was, and from that to those day-dreams in
which all young ladies are prone to indulge,
and to what answer she should give if ever
he should ask the momentous question, and
from that the whole thing dies away in a
background of orange-flowers, bridesmaids,
rice, and old slippers.

The fateful evening at last arrived. Charlie
Devereux, having compared his watch with
the Horse Guards in the afternoon — the one
authority on time that Major Braddock recognised,
to which all other clocks were
expected to bend — arrived at the 
at least ten minutes before the
appointed hour. Gilbert shook him heartily
by the hand, and said, laughing,

"This will do. Uncle Robert is not here
himself yet. Don't forget the hints I have

sent you ; I know you'll excuse my doing
so, but of course we have a point to carry :
appreciative but not demonstrative about
the dinner, and somewhat diffident on the
subject of wine ; bear in mind it's all the
Major's ordering ; and everything is sure to
be good, or else I prophesy a very stormy
morrow down below for the cook and
butler."

I shall do my very best," rejoiced Charlie,
to profit by your hints. As I am terribly
in earnest about this thing, I hope I shall
pass muster. Anyway I can't sufficiently
thank you, Slade, for the trouble you have
taken about it ! "

Nonsense ! " replied the other, "but hush,
here comes the great pasha himself."

To the minute, uncle Robert. Let me
introduce my friend Mr. Devereux."

The Major shook hands cordially with
Charlie, but at the same time Gilbert noticed
an extremely puzzled expression on his
countenance. As they went upstairs to the

coffee-room, Major Bracldock took advantage
of an opportunity to whisper to his nephew,

"Deuced odd, Bertie, but I'll swear I have
seen your friend before."

"Not likely, I think," rejoined Slade.
Some likeness probably misleads you."

"Not a bit of it," rejoined the Major,
testily. He had been hurried ; his valet
had forgotten his buttonhole, and had to be
dispatched in a hansom cab in hot haste
in search of this indispensable adjunct at
nearly the last moment. Still mystified and
troubled in that mild way, in which not
being able to call a face to our recollection
does bother us, Major Braddock sat down to
his dinner. But the clear turtle was undeniable,
and by the time the glass of
Madeira, its natural sequence, had been
swallowed, the Major dismissed the subject,
and had given himself up to enjoyment.
The dinner proved a success on every point.
The champagne was iced to a turn, the
claret was warmed to a nicety, and Charlie,

with the aid of the few hints he had received,
had no difficulty in passing as, what
he really was, a genuine unaffected gentlemanly
young fellow. It was evident that
he had found favour in the Major's sight,
and when the quotation was dexterously
fired off, over a wonderous cunning salmi
that appeared as the dinner wore on, the
Major exclaimed,

My dear young friend, allow me to congratulate
you. You have the making of an
epicure, and a considerable rudimentary
knowledge of the highest art and civilisation.
I have little doubt that in of course
time you'll be as good a judge of a dinner
as I am ! " And the Major uttered these
words in the same manner that another man
might have suggested a Victoria Cross or a
K.C.B.-ship as goals in a military career.
It is to be regretted" continued the Major,
glancing sadly down at his own portly proportions,
" that the acquirement of such
knowledge does spoil the figure, but, as Mr.

Weller remarked, and he must (in his rough
way) have been one of us, 6 Width and wisdom
go together.' "

After a couple of cigars Charlie, in obedience
to a hint from his mentor, took his
departure.

"He'll do, Bertie; he'll do! As nice a
young one as I have seen for some time.
I shall have great pleasure in doing all I
can for him. I cannot think who his face

reminds me of God bless my soul ! I

have it now ! — being? here recalls it to mv
memory. That is the young fellow I saw
about a fortnight ago playing billiards in
the next room with that old robber Dick
Kynaston. And I'll tell you what, Bertie,
my boy; if Devereux has got any money,
the sooner you give him a hint the better.
I know what Dick Kynaston can do on a
billiard-table. And during the little time
that I looked on he was playing with young
Devereux as a cat plays with a mouse."

I shouldn't think Charlie Devereux was

VOL. I. R

worth Kynaston's attention in that way.
Of course he knows them. They were up
hunting in his country all last season. But
I'm very glad you like young Devereux,
and hope now that you'll give him a lift."

"I will, I will ! But don't say too much
about it, Bertie ; for I don't want to disappoint
him ; and — it may not come off."

"Quite good enough, uncle Robert, to
know that you'll do your best. But I'll be
careful not to arouse undue expectations."

The next afternoon Gilbert wended his
way to Onslow Gardens to tell Lettie what
had been accomplished.

"Most satisfactory, I assure you, Miss
Devereux. Major Braddock was perfectly
satisfied with your brother, and pronounced
him a very nice youngster. Even the quotation
was fired off with great dexterity. I
have done everything possible, and though,
of course, we can't be quite certain, yet I
have little doubt my uncle will obtain him
a nomination. The examination, of course,

is Charlie's affair, but I don't suppose that
will bother him much."

Whether it bothers him or not, he must
pass it," rejoined Miss Devereux, laughing ;
even if I have to turn schoolmistress, and
hear him his lessons daily. However, I
have no fear about that. Charlie will work
hard enough, if it is wanted, with an object
in view. And now, do you really leave
London tomorrow ? "

Yes, leave is up, and I must return to
York. It is not a bad quarter, but no place
seems a good one when you want to be
somewhere else. By the way, you are very
intimate with the Kynastons, are you not ?"

"Yes," rejoined Lettie. "That is, with
]airs. Kynaston. I like her very much. She
is as bright as she is pretty, and can be so
excessively amusing."

•'' But," said Gilbert, " I gather you don't
care much for Major Kynaston ?"

"No," said Lettie, "I'm sure I don't
know why not, for he has always been very
r2

civil and polite to me. I have no doubt
I am quite wrong, but he always gives me
the idea of being so insincere."

I fancy he rather bears that character,"
said Slade ; " but what has become of Mrs.
Conn op?"

She is to come back for me, and take
me out driving, and is very nearly clue
now," and Lettie glanced at the clock. " I
was so anxious to hear of Charlie's prospects
that I waited in to see him. As for
thanking you for the good news you brought,
I cannot sufficiently; but you do understand,
Mr. Slade, how very grateful I am,
don't you ? "

Lettie had risen from her chair, and very
handsome the girl looked in the excitement
of the moment, and very handsome the girl
looked with her cheeks slightly flushed, and
her grey eyes sparkling with pleasure. This
getting her brother into the army was an
object very near to her heart. She was of
a warm-hearted, impulsive disposition, and

very fond of Charlie, and was extremely
gratified at the prospect of Charlie's becoming
a dragoon. Gilbert was by no means
blind to her attractions, and thought Miss
Devereux had never looked so handsome as
she did at this moment.

"You're making much of a very small
service," he said; "and I'm quite ashamed
at the wealth of gratitude by which it is repaid.
Don't you know we all go upon the
recruiting service sometimes ? I can only
trust in the future that you'll have no cause
to shake your head, and pointing at me, say :
1 There's the Sergeant Kite that trapped my
brother.' "

I have no fear of the result," rejoined
Lettie. "But, happen what may, I will
promise never to blame you for it ; here is
my hand ou it."

Slade took the small palm which Lettie
extended, and not only pressed it warmly.,
but detained it a trifle longer than there
was any necessity for. The girl coloured

slightly as lie at last released it, and then
exclaimed,

I hear the carriage, and must run and
get my bonnet on. You stay and tell my
aunt all about it. I shall be down again in
ten minutes."

Mrs. Connop was as much delighted as
Lettie with the news, and full of anxiety
to know when Charlie might expect his
nomination. When did Gilbert think that
Charlie would be gazetted ? what regiment
was he likely to be appointed to ? and
various questions of a like nature, which
Mr. Slade had to plead his utter inability
to answer. Then, in the expansiveness of
her nature, she begged him to come and
dine, and spend his last evening with them ;
but Lettie fortunately returned just in time
to remind her that they themselves were
engaged that evening. And Lettie felt
rather put out that it should happen to be
so. However, there was no help for it. So
Gilbert made his adieus, supplemented with

a promise to be at Lincoln to witness Polestar's
triumph in the autumn.

"I shall be a very happy woman, my
dear," said Mrs. Connop, as the carriage
rolled away Park-wards s "if I see Charlie
a dragoon, and you engaged to be married
before the year's out."

Nonsense, aunt," replied Lettie. "How
can you be so foolish ?"

Mr. Slade is a very good-looking man,
and, although I don't suppose he's at all
nude up his mind yet, I doubt whether
he'd call the idea ' nonsense ' exactly, At
all events Charlie's commission is an event
more than probable, you must admit."

6: Much more probable than the other,
auntie dear," rejoined Lettie, as she turned

her face away.

«/

We shall see," said Mrs. Connop,
tersely.

CHAPTER XV.

ENTERED FOR THE ARMY.

I don't exactly see your object, Dick ; but,
as you know, I'm not in the habit of bothering
you about reasons. It is usually sufficient
for me to know what you want without
troubling my head about why you want it.
I have been civil to this Mr. Eurzedon, as
you requested; and, if you think it worth
while, could make up a small dinner for
him. What he wants is obvious : the man
is mad to push his way into London society;
we are one of his stepping-stones. Of course
I can help him, though I don't think much
of him ; but it is for you to decide whether
it is worth our while."

Never mind the dinner, Kate, and never
mind the 6 why.' I have a strong idea that
Furzedon may be very useful to me before
long. I made a mistake about him to start
with, and thought that because he was
young he was innocent. That young man
was born the wrong side of forty, and one
would have to get up early to teach him
anything he don't know. Why, if I didn't
detect him foxing at billiards with me ! It
isn't that I couldn't beat his head off, but
the cheek of his thinking that he could
impose on a man of my experience ! "
and the Major looked as Tennyson might
do at receiving a hint from a provincial
poetaster.

I had nothing to do with that," rejoined
Mrs. Kynaston quietly; "only remember,
if I am civil to him and forward his views,
it is because you desire it. And now, Dick,
one word in earnest. I don't say you mean
the boy any harm ; but I do know you have
imbued Charlie Devereux with the idea that

lie can beat you at billiards, and probably-many
other games."

What the deuce is it to you if he should
think so ? I can scarcely suppose, my lady'
he continued with a sneer, " that you have
interested yourself in a boy like that ! "

"You happen to be wrong, Dick," she
said quietly. "I have, though not in the
way you would insinuate ; but mind, I'll
not see that boy plundered. And while paying
this compliment to your skill I will also
point out that it is surely not worth your
while."

That is a thing, Kate, you will, perhaps,
allow me to judge for myself. You will be
good enough to bear in mind that I stand
no interference with my plans."

"It is very rarely that I run counter to
your wishes," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston ; " but
you know from past experience that when I
am firmly resolved on a thing I can be
every bit as obstinate as you. Charlie Devereux
shall come to no harm at your hands if

I can prevent it. As for Mr. Purzedon, I'll
not raise a finger in his behalf."

Yon fool ! " rejoined the Major. " Only
that yon are creating a storm in a teacup, I
would soon show you that you have to obey
orders ; but I am not likely to harm Charlie
Devereux, for the best of all possible reasons
the game would not pay for the candle.
There is never any harm in ascertaining any
man's form at any game he fancies himself
at, and that young undergraduate thinks he
can play billiards."

"Now we understand each other," said
Mrs. Kynaston ; " we will leave him, if you
please, in that delusion. At all events, he
shall not be rudely awakened at my hands."

"A good deal of talk about nothing, as
usual," sneered the Major. " I shan't be at
home either to lunch or dinner, so make
your own arrangements," and, so saying,
the Major put on his hat, and having looked
in the glass, and given a last twirl to his
moustache, took his departure.

Hawks speedily recognise hawks — in short,
beasts of prey rarely fail to detect one
another. The carnivora of humanity are
swiftly aware of each other's presence. Just
as amongst those outside the pale of the
law there are cabalistic signs and a shibboleth
not understand by ordinary people,
so amongst the higher vultures of society
there is a recognition that takes but a short
time to arrive at. The adventurer who has
lived over half Europe very rapidly takes
stock of his brothers, and Kynaston had
already discovered that Ralph Eurzedon was
a very promising professor of his own line
of business.

Just the partner I want," thought the
Major. " Has some capital, but wants introductions
and opportunities. We might
do great things together. He would be an
apt pupil with my experience to guide
him."

What had first opened Ky aston's eyes to the
precociousness of his young friend had been

Furzedon's accurate information with regard
to Turf matters. The old usurer, of whom,
as a parent, that gentleman was so heartily
ashamed, had Jewish blood in his veins, and
an intimate acquaintance with the tribes
generally, and especially with those in his
own way of business. Now the Jews have
been invariably mixed up in all sport at
which money is to be made — from the prize-ring
to the racecourse. I can't call to mind
a Hebrew cricketer, but to the Turf and the
Rin the Israelites have largely contributed,
and the former sendeth the Gentile constantly
to Shadrach for the means with
which to appease Levy. Therefore racing
secrets are rife amongst these people, and
Furzedoo was constantly permitted to share
their knowledge ; and the information he
had thus been occasionally able to proffer
the Major had given that gentleman a high
opinion of his capacity.

Who lists the wind where it blows ?

AYho can tell what mischief a woman's

vanity and caprice may occasion when
wounded and disappointed? But let that
woman's love be not a caprice, but a serious
passion, and it's odds, like other fires, it
leaves ruins behind it ere it burns itself out.
Mrs. Kynaston, still brooding over her
fancy for Gilbert Slade, is a woman in
whom the fire is already smouldering, with
vanity already mortified, and, in spite of an
outwardly easy-going manner, of a temper
that will reck little of consequences should
the flames break out

As for that hussar speeding northwards,
he little dreams of his conquest, or of the
coil he has left behind him. He is by no
means blind to feminine beauty, and quite
recognises that Mrs. Kynaston is fair to
look upon, and it was quite possible that,
had not a fairer in his eyes than she dawned
simultaneously on the horizon, he might
have become her devoted cavalier for a time;
but as it is he thinks only of Lettie, and
has well-nigh forgotten Mrs. Kynaston's

existence, a circumstance which that lady
has far too good an opinion of her own
attractions to ever dream of. That Gilbert
slade was wavering in his allegiance she
did think. She was accustomed to that,
but with this difference, that the wavering
was usually in her favour, and at some
other woman's expense.

Gilbert Slade found the stream of life in
the northern capital run somewhat sluggish
after London. The quaint old city waxes
somewhat drowsy in the clog days, only to
wake up again when August brings racing
on the Knavesmire, and the Leger and the
hunting-season are near at hand. However,
Gilbert made the best of things, and was
getting through what is rather the dead
season in the country — to men — very fairly,
wondering occasionally what Miss Devereux
was doing, and whether she was still in
town, when one morning the post brought
him a letter from his uncle Robert, which
necessitated his at once communicating

with that young lady. It was dated from
the " Thermopolium," and ran as follows : —
Dear Bertie, —

I have succeeded in getting a nomination
for your protege, and if he prospers he
won't be the first soldier who has owed his
success in his profession to the attractions
of his female relations. His Royal Highness
was exceedingly nice about it, and said, 'I
can oblige you, Major Braddock, in what
you want, and I shall have much pleasure
in doing so. There is a cornetcy going in
your old regiment, and I'm sure I can't do
better for him than that. I inspected them
not long ago, and found them, as usual, all
that they ought to be. Leave his name and
address in the outer room, and I'll see Mr.
Devereux gets his nomination at once.
There will be an examination in October,
and he will be gazetted as soon as he has
got through that,' and then His Royal
Highness remarked, laughing, ' I was glad
to find that the champagne of the th

Hussars was as good as ever ; Colonel
Higgins told me that you still looked
after them in that respect, and are a sort
of honorary mess president even yet.' I
thanked His Highness, and told him I still
tried to do my duty to my country. And
so I do, you dog ! Am I not always recommending
her defenders to drink the best
brands only? Nothing injures the constitution
more than drinking bad wine. Now,
Master Bertie, I have succeeded in getting
young Devereux entered, bear in mind I
shan't like it if he's beat. Tell him he must
pass. I don't want His Royal Highness to
blow me up for having interfered in behalf
of a confounded fool. You had better write
to him at once, and tell him to look up his
books again. Thank goodness, in my time
they didn't think it necessary we should
know so much before we began. They
caught us young, and left it to the regiment
to break us.

Your affectionate uncle,

Robert Braddock."
vol. i. s

Gilbert Slade was excessively pleased at
the result of the Major's interference. He
felt that he really had been of prompt
service to Miss Devereux in this business.
And then he thought that it would be rather
a credit to himself to have introduced a
recruit who could ride like Charlie into the
regiment, for Gilbert had too much of the
racing instincts of his family not to recognise
that Charlie only wanted practice to
become a really good gentleman rider, and
even in a cavalry regiment men good
between the flags are rare. There was one
thing — it was of course imperative upon him
now to write to Miss Devereux ; and somehow
he thought it would be rather pleasant
to open a correspondence with Lettie. That
missive duly arrived in Onslow Gardens,
and threw the recipient and Mrs. Connop
into a state of the wildest delight, tempered
with no little anxiety on the subject of this
examination. She had heard Charlie speak
of men being plucked for their "little go,"
which she knew meant failure to pass an

examination of some sort ; and her confidence
in her brother's riding was considerably
greater than that she reposed in
his reading. As for Mrs. Connop, she felt
quite confident of her favourite nephew's
ability to do anything in that way. Had he
not gone through a course of University
training ? and was it likely that an examination
for the army could have had any
terrors for a man who had undergone such
a preparation ? But she, too, had her misgivings
; it is often the case, we attain what
we ardently desire, and are immediately
afflicted with doubts as to whether, after
all, we were not, perhaps, better without it.
Charlie, she knew, although she knew it
very partially, had developed a faculty forgetting
into money troubles at the University;
and her experience told her that equal
facility and greater temptation existed for
indulging this infirmity in the army. And
it did occur to Mrs. Connop, even in this
hour of triumph, that his outfit might not
s 2

be the only demand that would be made
upon her purse-strings.

Lettie hastened to reply to Gilbert Slade's
letter, and thank him for the trouble he
had taken in her brother's behalf. " Indeed,
Mr. Slade," she said, " it has been
very good of you to take all this trouble in
Charlie's behalf. And I have no doubt that
it was mainly the cunning hints he received
from you which enabled him to make himself
acceptable to Major Braddock, to whom
also we feel very much indebted about the
whole business. The idea of his being in
the same regiment as yourself is delightful,
because I am sure that you will put him in
the way of things; and, though I have no
fear of his soon making his way, yet the life
will be strange to him at first, as he has had
no experience of the ways of military men.
As for passing, he writes very confidently,
and vows 'that he shall pull through,
though it may be with a fall or two ; '
and, as I know he is very much in earnest

about obtaining bis commission, I believe
bim. Once more, Mr. Slade, I must say
that I don't know bow to tell you bow
grateful we feel. You must come down and
see Polestar win at Lincoln ; and then, perhaps,
we may induce you to come on to
North Leach, and bave a few days' bunting
in the wolds. With kind regards from
auntie,

Yours most sincerely,

Lettie Devereux."

Gilbert conceived this letter required
acknowledgment, and wrote a courteous
reply, in wbicb be expressed bis hope of
assisting at Polestar's expected triumph in
the autumn ; and further requesting that he
might be informed as speedily as possible of
the result of the fray between Charlie and
his torturers ; but Miss Devereux made no
further sign, and it was not till the end of
September that he received a letter from
Charlie himself : —

"Dear Slade," he began, " I have gone

through my ordeal, and, although not
formally apprised of it, feel sure that I have
passed. They put me on in about the
easiest chapter of all Caesar's Commentaries,
one about which, if you know anything of
Latin at all, you couldn't go wrong in. The
whole examination, as it stands at present, is
a farce, and one which no ordinary schoolboy
could possibly be plucked over, with
one exception ; old Udall, who examines
in history, has collected a bundle of very
dry facts, thickly studded with dates, which
he has published. He examines you chiefly
out of his own book, and dates are his
hobby. Of this I luckily got a hint, so just
struggled hard at his chronological table for
six weeks ; deuced lucky I did so, for the
bigger half of my questions were of that
nature. I answered them like the well-crammed
gosling I was, and have very little
doubt that I shall have totally forgotten all
about them ere six months are over my
head. Never mind ! they have served my

turn, and I shall hope to be with you at

York this winter, and have a good time

with the York and Ainsty. Good-bye, and

no end of thanks for all you have ever done

for me.

Ever yours,

Charlie Devereux."

Army examinations, it must be borne in
mind, were quite in their infancy when Mr.
Devereux passed so triumphantly through
the ordeal. They have become competitive
since, and assumed a very different complexion
; education, indeed, seems highly
necessary for anything, except as a qualification
for the electorate.

CHAPTER XVI.

DEAREST FRIENDS " MAY " DIFFER.

It was not till the very last week of her
London visit that Lettie received Slade's
letter containing the news of Charlie's nomination,
and it was only when she wrote to
Kate Kynaston, proposing to call and say
Good-bye," that lady learnt the fact that,
in the event of success, young Devereux was
to be gazetted to Gilbert's regiment. If she
had not been satisfied with Mr. Slade's interference
in the matter before, her anger
about it now was tolerably pronounced.
She was not going to be out-manoeuvred
by a chit of a country girl like that, if she
knew it ; and she persistently regarded

Gilbert as having fallen captive, metaphorically
speaking, to her own spear. She was
not likely to submit to having the spoils of
the chase wrested from her in this fashion.
Charlie in the same regiment, and naturally,
at his sister s bidding, perpetually bringing
Mr. Slade with him to North Leach ! Had
Mrs. Kynaston been on the Board of Examiners
I would not have given much for
Mr. Devereux's chance of passing, nor had
she been Colonel of the regiment do I think
much leave would have been accorded to
him just at present. On one point that
lady was more resolute than ever — that,
though he might escape from her thrall,
Gilbert should never be husband to Lettice
Devereux.

But outwardly her brow was as smooth
as of yore, and her congratulations to Lettie
on paper apparently warm and sincere.
Women, when the quarrel is a Voutrance,
know better than to betray themselves;
they bide their time, but when that comes

don't think they will spare their hand, or
fail to send the steel home to its bitterest
length. She turned over in her mind how
this union might be prevented : there was
plenty of time — it was a thing that might
never come about, and, even should she
learn that the pair were engaged, it was
very possible, thought Mrs. Kynaston, to
arrange a slip 'twixt that cup and lip.
Marriages may be made in Heaven, perhaps,
but that they are frequently ruptured on
earth, both in the egg and when full-grown,
we have much demonstration of, and how
often woman's jealousy or man's frailty
contributes to such sad ending, what philosopher
shall determine ? But I fancy the
former has shattered as much matrimonial
happiness as can be attributed to any enemy
of Hymen.

Suddenly it flashed vaguely before Mrs.
Kynaston' s mind that this new protege of
her husband — Mr. Eurzedon— might be a
useful card in her hand in the game she

contemplated playing. She had read that
gentleman's character pretty correctly considering
the little she had seen of him. She
knew that he was selfish, had a strong suspicion
that he was niggardly, hut she further
knew for certain that his great ambition
was to obtain some social status in the great
London world. He admired Miss Devereux
that was a fact patent to any one gifted
with the power of perception— but Mr.
Furzedon was not a man likely to marry ,
except deliberately, and in furtherance of
the line he had chalked out for himself.

"It would not be such a hard thing'
mused Mrs. Kynaston, "to make Furzedon
anxious to marry Lettie Devereux. Her
brother getting into a crack dragoon regiment
is one step towards it ! Let Mr.
Furzedon only be persuaded that Miss
Devereux is an acknowledged beauty, whose
face is a passport to fashions portals, and
he will be keen enough to woo her. He
would prefer a wife with money, perhaps —

with a handle to her name, undoubtedly —
but he is far too shrewd a judge uot to
know that a man with no antecedents and
only a moderate command of money cannot
expect the pick of the matrimonial market.
Yes," continued Mrs. Kynaston, still following
up the same train of thought, "it is
quite possible chat Mr. Furzedon may be a
very useful card to me in future. I don't
like the man myself, nor do I suppose that
Dick does either, for, to do him justice,
although necessity compels him to know
very electro-plated gentlemen at times, poor
old Dick thoroughly understands good form
when he meets it. I usually obey my lord
and master, and for once his wishes and
mine conform. He has his reasons for
wishing me to be civil to Mr. Purzedon ; I
also have mine. That slightly underbred
young man promises to be rather a tame
cat about our establishment ; " and then
Mrs. Kynaston, glancing at the clock,
muttered softly to herself, "Lettie, my dear,

it is time you made your appearance. How
pleased I shall be to see you ! How sad I
shall be that we are about to part ! And
how sad, my love. I am at the thought that
I cannot bite you ! "

She had not to wait Ions;. A few minutes
more and Miss Devereux was announced,
and Mrs. Kyr.aston rose and received her
with the greatest effusion.

I am rather late, I know," said Lettie,
as she sank into an easy chair, "but there is
always so much to do the last few days ;
people whom one has almost forgot have to
be called on, and people whom you had hoped
had forgot all about you suddenly turn up
and pay visits of unwarrantable length and
never-to-be-forgotten dreariness. I don't
know how it is, but these latter people
always circumvent the servants ; your dearest
friends may be turned away from the
door, but, whatever the instructions, these
people invariably at least gain the drawing-room,

and you are very lucky if they don't
catch von in ite



Yes." replied Mrs. Kynaston, gaily.
few people possess such a treasure as
Staples. He was with the Major before I
married. He is a little brusque in his
manner, I grant, but he has almost an unerring
instinct of whom to let in and whom
to keep out. He has a capital memory, and
the slightest hint suffices him. Dick always
says, in joke, that there are times when
Staples will say 'Not at home' to him, and
that nothing but his latchkey makes admission
to his own house a certainty. Undoubtedly
Staples is a very superior watchdog.
As for the importunate creditor —
don't look shocked, Lettie, half the Test
End of London are troubled in this wise —
Staples recognises them, I verily believe, by
their knock, let them play such salvo as
they will upon our door ; while the vagueness
of his knowledge as to whether Major

Kynaston is in town, or ever will be in town
again, is simply unsurpassable. "

"An invaluable man, Staples," rejoined
Lettie. " I must consider myself fortunate
to be in his good graces."

Oh, yes ; he knows you, and that you
are one of the privileged ; but I haven't
congratulated you. I am so pleased about
Charlie, and how very nice it is that he
should have got into Mr. Slade's regiment.
It will be especially nice for you, my dear ! "
continued Mrs. Kynaston, archly.

Why so ? " asked Lettie.

Ob, I don't know," said Mrs. Kynaston,
carelessly. " Still, it's always convenient to
have one's brothers and admirers in the
same bundle. When you want a few young
men for a ball you will always be able to
write to Charlie to come, and to bring two
or three brother-officers with him. And if
you haven't, after the first twelve months,
taught him whom to bring, then you deserve
to die an old maid."

"How can you say such things?" cried
Lettie, hotly. " My brothers have always
been accustomed to bring such friends as
they like to North Leach, and it is not
likely that Charlie, when he becomes a
dragoon, will renounce that privilege — why-should
he ? and why should not one of
those friends be Mr. Slade ? He, at all
events, has a strong claim on our hospitality,
if only for the service he has just
rendered us."

Quite so, my dear," assented her companion.
" Men have done more than that
for the love of les beaux yeux, and received
far less guerdon than, I prophesy, will be
Mr. Slade's lot. Now, don't get angry,
Lettice, but, bear in mind, these soldiers
are arrant flirts — they woo, and they ride
away. Don't let your heart out of your
keeping till the engagement ring is on your
finger."

What nonsense you are talking ! " rejoined
Lettie, petulantly. "Mr. Slade has

undeniably been very kind in this business
to Charlie. I presume I may feel grateful
to him without haying the slightest ulterior
thought ? M

Of course you may," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
with a sarcastic little smile ; " but
you wouldn't be a woman if you hadn't one.
What do you suppose made Mr. Slade take
such interest in Charlie. Pooh ! Lettie,
don't juggle with facts ; nor attempt to
hoodwink a woman of the world like me.
If it was not from admiration of yourself, I
would simply know why did he trouble his
head about Charlie ? "

Lettie flushed, and felt very uncomfortable
under the merciless raillery of her
hostess. She most devoutly wished herself
well out of Chester Street, and that she had
never come to bid Mrs. Kynaston good-bye.
She was quite conscious that there was a
good deal of truth in what her hostess had
said. She was not yet quite in love with
Gilbert Slade ; but she did not disguise from

VOL. I. T

herself that she was in a very fair way to
"become so. And all these serai-jeering remarks
of Mrs. Kynaston's stung like so
many pin-pricks ; but, sharp as the stab
may be, no Indian brave ever stands torture
with more assumed indifference than a
woman in society endures the gibes of her
sisters.

I can hardly answer that question'
Miss Devereux replied at length. " My
experience, of course, does not go so far as
yours by some years, but I have known
people do kindly actions without seeking
much gain for themselves. You know best;
but don't you think it would be rather a
dreary world if we never did our neighbour
a good turn without calculation ? Surely,
Kate, you don't look to be paid in kind for
every small assistance you may render your
fellow-creatures in this world?"

I usually am," replied that lady, with
asperity. " 'As we sow, so shall we reap,'
so say the Scriptures — a truth that knowledge

of the world tells me may be read
in very different lights. The kindnesses
yon have sown generally produce but a
crop of ingratitude. Be a good friend to
a man, and he drops yon for the first face
that catches his fancy ; be a good friend to
a woman, and she devotes every art she possesses
to steal from von von lover or von

e » e

husband. Don't look so l mazed,' Lettie !
Yon were kind enough to remind me of my
many years' additional experience, and that
is the outcome of them."

If Miss Devereux was young, she was no
fool : she was vaguely conscious that some
jealousy concerning Gilbert Slade was at
the bottom of Mrs. Kynaston's bitterness ;
but she had never grasped, nor was it likely
she ever would, that that lady had considered
the hussar her own peculiar property,
and, as has been said before, this was
a conclusion on Mrs. Kynaston's part that
circumstances by no means warranted.

There is no helping these things ; men goon

telling stories till they arrive at the
belief that they were bond fide the heroes
of them. Men regard property that may
come to them very often as property that
must come to them, and eventually as property
that actually belongs to them. When
the holder dies, and his will announces that
the late proprietor has taken a different
view of things, such men are simply crushed
with a sense of injustice, and that they have
been the victims of heartless robbery.

I don't know what makes you speak so
bitterly to-day, but I suppose you are in
low spirits ; something has gone wrong,
perhaps, and then, we all know, life looks
none so rosy. I can't plead guilty to knowing
much about that sort of thing; but
even a schoolgirl has occasional fits of depression
: her music gets the best of her,
or she's baulked in some expected pleasure.
I thought you would be so glad to hear of
Charlie's good fortune."

So I am, of course ; haven't I told you

so ? And how nice you will find it having
him in a crack Hussar regiment."

Miss Devereux did not reply immediately
there is more than one way of offering congratulations,
and Lettie was quite conscious
that there was a flavour of hyssop about
those of Mrs. Kynaston. " Well, good-bye,"
she said, rising ; " I do hope you will think
better of it, and take The Firs again for
next season. We shall miss you and the
Major sadly as neighbours; and remember
that the advantages which you have just
said will accrue to me from Charlie's commission
will also tend to make our few balls
still more lively for you ; in short," concluded
Lettie with a laugh, "if we can
muster a few young men at North Leach,
it is good for the whole neighbourhood in
that way."

Good-bye," said Mrs. Kynaston, as she
shook hands with her again. " I don't
know at all as vet if The Firs is destined
to be our winter quarters this year. One

piece of advice, my dear, at parting : don't
be too philanthropic, nor too ready to part
with the partners your brother has delivered
into your hand. You are very pretty,
Lettie ; but men are very fanciful, and let
the bell-wether take up with a Gorgon, and
the rest of them are strut soling madly to
secure her hand for the next dance."

Miss Devereux made no response. She
was, indeed, only too glad to bring her visit
to a termination. She was quite conscious
that their conversation, though nominally
friendly, had been " on the jar " throughout,
and that Mrs. Kingston's congratulations
had been very far from cordial ; she did not
understand it. She had thought that lady
really fond of them all, and that she would
have been delighted at hearing of Charlie's
good fortune. But she felt quite sure that
there was something in his appointment to

the th Hussars that did not meet Mrs.

Kynaston's approval. Then as Miss Devereux
drove back to Onslow Gardens her

thoughts reverted to Mrs. Kynaston's innuendo,
that when Charlie had joined his
regiment there would be much facility for
asking Mr. Slade to come down with him to
North Leach. She wondered if Mr. Slade
would care to pay such a visit. She wondered
a little as to whether he cared for
her. She had good evidence that he had
not forgotten her, or he would hardly have
taken all this trouble in Charlie's behalf.
"Ah," thought Lettie, "how jolly it would
be if Polestar should win at Lincoln, and
they all come back to North Leach to have
two or three days' hunting, and celebrate
his triumph." And in they I fancy Mr.
Gilbert Slade was emphatically included.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 042045143

■ ■rs *tmnma*<M'*ny*

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

% Socjjl.

Hamlet Smart

AUTHOR OP "BREEZIE LANGTON," "FROM POST TO FINISH,'
"BAD TO BEAT," ETC. ETC,

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON : CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited



[All Bights reserved']

printed BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I. PAGE

BELLATON WOLD 1

CHAPTER II.

TRIAL OF BELISARIUS 19

CHAPTER III.

IN THE GAZETTE 36

CHAPTER lY.

THE TWO THOUSAND 54

CHAPTER V.

"you SHALL NEVER MARRY HIM " . . . ■ . 70

CHAPTER VI.

MR. black's tip 87

CHAPTER VII.

Charlie's summoned to town . . . . . 105

CHAPTER VIII.

SAM PRANCE AT HOME 123

CHAPTER IX.

KATE KYNASTON RECONNOITRES 138

CHAPTER X.

FURZEDON PROPOSES 156

NEWS FROM BELLATON WOLD 173

CHAPTER XII.

DIRE MISGIVINGS 189

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GREAT EPSOM RACE 207

CHAPTER XIV.

RAISING THE WIND 223

CHAPTER XV.

FURZEDON RETURNS TO THE CHARGE 240

CHAPTER XVI.

IN THE usurer's FANGS 256

CHAPTER I.

BELLATON WOLD.

The wind whistled shrill across the Yorkshire
wolds this March evening, but at
that time of night there were few wayfarers
about to suffer from its bleakness.
Here and there a belated shepherd might
have been seen hurrying to some hamlet
nestling at the foot of the hills, or some
stalwart farmer making a short cut to the
snug house that called him master. A little

VOL II. B

distance below a species of plateau, well
known as a famous training-ground, stood
a many-gabled well-thatched farmhouse. It
was about the ordinary-sized dwelling that a
well-to-do yeoman, who cultivated his own
land, might be supposed to inhabit. By no
means a large house, or a house of any
pretence, remarkable only for one thing, the
rather extensive range of stabling that stood
around it. There was accommodation for
many more horses than the tiller of such a
farm would require. A bright light penetrating
through the chinks of the shutters
of a latticed window on the ground floor
suggested the idea of warmth and a comfortable
fireside within. Using the privilege
of Asmodeus, we peep inside the
parlour and see two men seated on either
side of the glowing hearth, with a table well
supplied with spirits and water. Alas ! too
well supplied for one of them.

Yes, Mr. Slade, I've been main bad. I
can't stand the winters as I used to do, and

the gout lays hold of me terrible now at
times."

The speaker was a little dark, very dark,
wiry man, with eyes like gimlets, whose
countenance bore the traces of recent indisposition.


"You ought to be a bit more careful,"
replied Norman Slade. '' It's no use, Bill,
the old 'uns can't live with the young ones ;
you can't expect to take your liquor freely
overnight and turn out to ride trials in the
keen morning air, now you've got within
the forties, without feeling it."

Now don't you preach, Mr. Slade," rejoined
Bill Smith, testily. "I should like to
know what a man's to do when he can't get
about to look after his horses. He must
take a drop to comfort him ; horses indeed !
such a lot as they are too. I don't believe
there's one of them worth a row of gingerbread.
I tried my two-year-olds last
October and a pretty moderate lot they are.
B 2

No chance of their doing any good as three -
year-old."

"You will have to get rid of them in
selling-races," rejoined Slade, flipping the
ash from his cigar. " I suppose they're good
enough to do you a turn there."

'' Well, I should hope so," growled the
other, as he took a gulp of a mahogany-coloured
mixture which no doctor would
have dreamt of recommending for gout ;
however, I shall be about again in a few
days now, and then I must put 'em through
the mill again and see what they're really
fit for."

Bill Smith's was a common enough case ;
a man who now passed a good deal of his
time between drinking-bouts and severe
attacks of the gout. One of the finest
horsemen in England, he had at an early
age established himself as one of the crack
jockeys of the day. '' Formidable at Epsom,
invincible at Doncaster, and dangerous anywhere,"
had been the comment on his

riding, only a few years back, by one of
the shrewdest judges of racing on the turf.
Cast by nature in a light mould, he was
exempt from a great deal of the abstinence
and privation that forms so prominent a
part of a jockey's life. Always a free liver,
and of a convivial disposition, he had latterly
allowed his craving for strong waters
to get the upper hand of him. It began to
be whispered about that " Black Bill," ashe
was called by his brother jockeys, was
very often " half-cocked " when he got up to
ride. It was some time before the fact became
generally recognised. The man could
ride as well half-drunk as sober, save in one
respect ; and it is just that which invariably
cuts short the career of a jockey who takes
to drinking; namely, that in the critical
moments of a race he lost his head. Instead
of taking advantage of every point in the
game, he failed to note what his antagonists
were doing ; he got muddled ; he timed his
rush either too soon or too late. That

deadly rush of his, for which he had once
been so famous, and which had snatched so
many races out of the fire on the very post,
was now wont to be delivered at the wrong
time. He who had been wont to measure
his supreme effort to the very stride, now
either won his race two lengths before the
chair, or perhaps the same distance the
other side of it; but he failed to win at
the winning-post. Gradually his riding fell
away from him ; owners naturally ceased to
employ a jockey upon whose sobriety there
was no dependence. The same pitiless
authority whom we have quoted above as
giving such a laudatory opinion of Bill
Smith's riding, now said "that he threw
away more races than any man in England."
The great stable of the North, which had held
first claim on his services for many years,
had now withdrawn its patronage ; and the
world generally frowned upon the once-famous
jockey. Still, every now and then
he astonished the turfites by a bit of brilliant

riding worthy of his best days. It was
evident that his right-hand had not lost
its cunning, nor his nerve failed him ; and
that, if only he could keep from drink, the
man was as fine a horseman as ever. Ah !
the infinite conjectural probabilities of
those ifs !

Bill Smith took the neglect of his old
patrons bitterly. That he had lost the
greater part of his business soured the man.
True, it was from his own fault; and in his
own breast he most likely acknowledged
that it was so ; but it rarely happens that
upon these occasions a man does not put his
own sins upon other people, and think all
the more hardly of them on that account.
In his palmy days, too. Bill Smith had been
arrogant and coarse of speech to most of
the turf officials with whom he came in contact
; a bully amongst the younger jockeys ;
and a very unscrupulous rider, to say the
least of it, amongst those of his own standing.
A man like this has not many friends

when the tide turns against him; and,
though his brethren of the saddle were
chary yet of provoking the rough side of
'^ Black Bill's" tongue, they made no disguise
of their satisfaction when he threw a
race away in consequence of his besetting
failing. Two of his old friends there were
who stood staunchly to him, in spite of his
transgressions ; and these were Norman
Slade and Sir Eonald Radcliffe.

I can't quarrel with the old fellow,
Norman," Sir Ronald had observed after
one of Bill Smith's later fiasco. "He's put
me in for too many good things in his time
for that, but I'll back him no more. He
simply threw that last race away by coming
too late."

It would have been well for Sir Bonald if
he had adhered firmly to that resolution.

"Well," said Slade, after a pause of some
minutes, " very little sleep does for me as a
rule, but I feel tired to-night, and, as you
know, when in the country am always an

early man in the morning. I think I'll be
off to bed. Shall you be out with the horses
tomorrow morning?"

No," returned the jockey. " I'm not
rid of this confounded gout yet, and I am
especially ordered to be careful about taking
cold. You had better wrap well up, for
you'll find the air confounded keen on the
wolds."

'' I know all about it," rejoined Slade.
I suppose I shall find Tom Parrott in
charge ? "

'' Yes, he is a right good lad is Tom. I
don't know how I should get on without
him, for I've been able to look after the
horses very little all this winter. Sure you
won't have anything more before you go?"

"No; good night," rejoined Slade, as he
picked up a hand-candlestick off the sideboard,
" and I hope the enemy will let you
sleep to-night. When you come down to
breakfast I shall be able to tell you what I
think of the three-year-olds."

Bill Smith replied with a grimace, and
turning to the fire observed as Norman left
the room, " There's mighty cold comfort in
that."

A little before eight the next morning
saw Norman Slade attired in breeches,
gaiters, stout boots, and shooting-jacket,
plodding up the winding road that led to
the plateau. There, walking np and down,
clothed in their rugs, were some half-score
horses bestrode by stable-boys, the
whole evidently under the control of a little
man riding a clever-looking pony, and who,
though he was every day of five-and-thirty,
was perhaps better known by the soubriquet
of Bill Smith's head lad than by his legitimate
appellation of Tom Parrott. The
string, with one or two exceptions, were the
property of Bill Smith himself, for few
people cared to intrust the preparation of
their horses to a man with Bill's unfortunate
reputation. If he could not curb his propensity
for strong waters when such urgent

call upon his faculties was demanded as on
the race-course, was it like that he would
put any check upon himself on the training-ground
? and the turf, like all other professions,
requires sobriety among its votaries.

Tom Parrott cantered briskly towards
Norman the minute he saw him striding
across the grand expanse of springy turf.
It was not that he was going to do anything
that all the world might not have seen, but
he had all the instinctive jealousy of most
trainers at finding his charges watched in
their work.

Mr. Slade ! " he exclaimed, as he recognised
his visitor. "' Blamed if I didn't think
it was one of those woandy touts. Not, I am
sorry to say, that we have anything worth
their spying about, but I can't abide the
vermin."

'' Glad to see you looking so well, Tom,"
rejoined Norman. '' No, Mr. Smith told me
last night you had nothing in the string
that you had any hopes of. 'Tis so, sometimes,

the stable gets clean out of form, and
hasn't a horse in training good enough to
win a saddle and bridle. Next year luck
changes, and you sweep the board. What
work are you going to give 'em this morning
? "

Well, they'll do a little slow cantering,
and then old Knight-of-the- Whistle will
lead the three-year-olds a smart mile spin.
It's time to get on with them, you see,
Mr. Slade ; if they're ever to addle their
keep, they ought to begin at the Newmarket
Spring Meetings."

Just so," said Norman '' You use the
old gallop, I suppose ? I shall go and stand
about half up the rise at the finish, and
then I shall see them well extended."

'' Can't do better, sir," replied Parrott ;
and, turning his pony short round, he cantered
back to his charges.

Slade made his way to the coign of
vantage he had mentioned, unshipped his
glasses, and gazed lazily at the horses, as on

the other side of the down they went through
some slow exercise. Presently he saw four
of them walk quietly down to the mile-post,
and knew that he was about to see the cream
of Bill Smith's lot gallop. There was no
keener race-goer than Norman Slade. No
man more thoroughly loved racing for sheer
sport ; he could be as deeply interested in
the issue of a trial on those Yorkshire wolds
as on the result of the Derby ; but still, it
was with languid curiosity he awaited the
forthcoming gallop. There could be little
interest in seeing a few notoriously bad
horses scurry over their mile in an exercise-gallop.
Suddenly his attention was aroused;
before the quartet had gone a quarter of a
mile he could see that the second, a slashing
big brown colt, had got his head up, and
was fighting with his rider. Another few
seconds, and, dropping his head, he makes an
angry snatch at the bridle, bolts out of the
Indian file in which they are galloping, tears

past old Knight-of- the Whistle, and comes
thundering along the gallop hy himself.

'' Got clean away with the lad," muttered
Norman, as he watched the boy throw himself
right back in his saddle, and strive in
vain to check his horse ; '' but what on earth
does old Bill mean by saying his 
are no good ? If that's not a galloper
I never saw one. What a stride he has !
and how well he brings his quarters under
him now he is really going."

In vain the boy pulled ; the big brown
colt had completely overpowered him, and
was bent upon doing a gallop entirely on his
own account that morning. Norman watched
him keenly as he swept past him, breasting
the slight ascent like a lion, and going a
good quarter-of-a-mile past the termination
of the gallop before his rider succeeded in
pulling him up ; he did so at last, and turned
his mount a little ruefully to walk back.
'rit's well," he muttered-that Parrott is

in charge this morning instead of old Bill
himself." Although it is at times impossible
to prevent it, yet trainers look with considerable
disfavour at a boy who lets his
horse get away with him ; and with a viol
coarse-tongued man like Bill
Smith such mistake was met with a volley
of abuse. By this time Tom Parrot t had
joined Slade, and, walking his pony alongside
of him, they both proceeded to meet the
culprit.

"Well, you young duffer," exclaimed
Parrott, " what possessed you to let him get
his head up like that ? You might have
known that he would twitch the bit out of
your hands directly he dropped it again.
Now don't say you couldn't help it. In the
first place, you should have helped it ; and
in the second place, if I thought you could
have helped it, you'd get your walking
ticket this afternoon ; " with which rather
contradictory rebuke Mr. Parrott closed his
lecture.

Stop a moment, boy," said Slade, authoritatively
; " I want just to look your horse
over; " and Norman's practised eye at once
took keen stock of the colt's understandings.


Can't see much of him here, Tom, but
I'll have a good look at him in the stable,
where you can strip him for me ; his legs
look sound enough."

^' Oh, he's sound as a bell," rejoined Parrott
; "if he was only as good as he is
sound he'd do."

'' What do you call him, and how is he
bred ? "

'' Belisarius, by Triumph, out of Darkness,"
rejoined Parrott, laconically.

As stout blood as any in England," remarked
Norman ; ^' and what's more, Tom,
as fine a mover as I've seen gallop for sometime.
Mr. Smith told me last night that he
had tried all his three-year-olds good for
nothing. Do you mean to tell me that
brown colt was in the trial ? "

Yes, sir," replied Parrott, " and well
beaten off."

'well, Tom," said Slade, "did you seethe
colt go this morning ? Can you shut
your eyes to that ? Who rode him in the
trial?"

One of the boys," replied Parrott. '' I
forget at this moment which, but 1 can
easily ascertain."

Do, Tom, as soon as you get back. I'll
lay pounds to crowns the trial's all wrong.
I'll come round and have a look at Belisarius
in his box after breakfast." And
with that Slade strode away down the hill
to satisfy the keen appetite that a morning
on the wolds is wont to induce. " It's all
nonsense," he said to himself as he stepped
smartly out in the direction of the farmhouse.
'^ That trial was all wrong, I'll lay
guineas to gooseberries ; old Bill was most
likely too ill to superintend it himself, and,
at all events, no doubt, never rode in it.
Tom Parrott's a good head boy, but putting

VOL. II. C

horses together is a little beyond him. If
Bill had ridden in it he would have known
what every horse in it was doing. As it is,
I fancy Belisarius is a great big lazy colt
that takes a deal of getting out. I don't
suppose any of them ever saw him gallop
till this morning. Well, come, I'm going
to have a more amusing week than I
reckoned on. I've at all events found out
something to do. I've got to discover the
rights of that trial, to induce Bill to try
them again, and also to ascertain whether
that big brown colt is entered for any stakes
worth winning."

CHAPTER II.

TRIAL OE BELISARIUS.

As Norman entered the house his host
called out to him from the parlour, " Is that
you, Mr. Slade ? Come along in, and we'll
have breakfast up in a twinkling. I feel
more like myself this morning than I have
done for some time ; the talk with you last
night did me good."

Glad to hear it," replied Norman, " I'll
just run upstairs and wash my hands and be
with you in less than five minutes."

No sooner had Slade entered his bedroom
than he dashed at once to his portmanteau,
and eagerly took from it a volume of the
calendar bearing the title of '' Races toc

2

Come." He turned over the leaves quickly.
Yes, there it was, Belisarius, by Triumph,
out of Darkness. It didn't take Slade's
practised eye long to run over the horse's
engagements. " By heavens ! " he exclaimed,
'' if I should prove right, and my
opinion he confirmed at the subsequent
trial, I Ve discovered a veritable gold-mine.
Here's a three-year-old entered for all the
big races of the year whose name has never
been even whispered among racing-men,
who has never run, and whose very owner
regards him as good for nothing. Now this
is real fun. If we have got hold of a flyer,
what a dressing we will give those south
country stables. As for money, we can win
as much as we please over him. Properly
worked, Radcliffe, Bill, and myself may
stand to win perfect fortunes with very
little risk." And so saying Norman Slade
went down stairs to breakfast.

Well ! Mr. Slade," exclaimed the jockey,
as Norman entered the parlour, " I hope

you found an appetite upon the moor if you
found nothing else. I suppose you saw all
my rubbish."

Rubbish, are they ! " ejaculated Norman,
'perhaps so. I wonder what you'd take
for the three three-year-olds Knight of the
Whistle led in their gallop this morning ?"

Have you got a commission ? " inquired
the jockey, eyeing his guest keenly. '' If
you have you may take those three for a
monkey, and I shall think myself well out
of them."

Well, Bill, you take my advice, don't
you be in a hurry to part with those three
for five hundred until you know a little
more about them. How did you try them
last back end ? "

They had a six-furlong spin with old
Knight of the Whistle, as true a trial horse
as ever was foaled. Two of 'em were tried at
weight for age, but Belisarius I rather fancied,
so I put him in at seven pounds less. The

horse cleaned out the lot, and as for my
fancy, he finished last of all."

"You neither saw it nor rode in it, I
suppose' rejoined Slade.

I certainly didn't ride in it, and I only
half saw it. I was very ill, and it was a
very misty day, and I left the management
of the whole thing to Parrott."

"Well, then," retorted Slade' I maintain
your trial is no trial at all, and that you
know nothing about your own young ones."

"You're a very tidy judge, Mr. Slade,
and know a bit what you're speaking about,"
rejoined the jockey, not a little nettled,
"but if you think you can learn me my
business you are confoundedly mistaken,"

'^ Never supposed I could teach you anything,
Bill," replied Norman, perfectly unmoved,
" but no man ever lived who didn't
make a mistake at times ; and he never did
so without there being a looker-on with half
his brains who could point it out to him.

If you had been well enough to ride in it
yourself, I should look upon that trial as
conclusive. You weren't, and I look upon
it as all skittles."

'' I know what I'm about," rejoined the
jockey sulkily. " I'll come to you when I
want to know the time of day, thank you ;
in the meantime you can't say you're invited
to risk money on anything of mine."

'' Now, do listen to reason. Bill," rejoined
Norman quietly, " don't say anything now,
just turn it over in your mind. Give me
three or four days to worm out what I can
about that trial. You have got nothing todo,
remember, but to get well, and just before
I leave you get on that brown colt, and see
whether Knight of the Whistle can give
him twenty-one pounds over a mile."

At first the jealous irritable old jockey
bluntly refused, said that he had satisfied
himself about the brutes, that he was not
going to trouble himself to get into the
saddle to see how far Belisarius was behind

a good horse, that Slade had better not
waste his time in the experiment of turning
Yorkshire geese into Epsom swans ; but in
his innermost heart Bill Smith began to
ponder over what his guest had said; he
knew that Norman Slade was a really right
good judge of a thoroughbred. He had
had in the first instance a great opinion of
Belisarius himself, and in his best days
the man's natural egotism had invariably
prompted him to little belief in a trial in
which he had not taken part. No man had
more often expressed his disbelief in the
issue of what he designated a " meddling
gallop," and he was forced to admit that
this trial of his might strictly be described
as such. As for Slade, he was much too
clever a man of the world to touch upon
the subject for a couple of days. He was
up every morning to see Belisarius do his
work, and the more he saw of him the
more convinced he was that he was a good
horse. He had got hold of the boy who

rode him in that rough Yorkshire gallop
at the hack end of last year, and hy dine
of bribery, cajolery, and intimidation, had
at last wrung from him the confession that
he had been so bad with boils on that
occasion as to be perfectly unfit to ride, and
quite unable to do justice to his horse.

Norman Slade communicated his discovery
to Smith, who received the intelligence
with a savage execration, and a muttered
growling, in which strong expletives
and such terms as " Break every bone in
his body," " Cut the little devil in two,"
&c. were alone audible ; but Slade eventually
smoothed him down, and pleaded that
he had pledged himself the boy should go
scatheless if he told the whole truth. '' Besides,"
urged Norman, " it's no use thrashing
him for his sins of five or six months
back, the poor little beggar will doubtless
commit himself again before long."

The jockey burst out laughing. " Well,
Mr. Slade," he cried, "you are an ingenious

advocate, but I'd as lief you weren't arguing
for my defence. Don't hang him
now, because you'll have another chance
before long. Well, there's something in it,
and I promise to let the young villain off
this time."

'' Thanks, it's very likely all for the best,
nobody has the faintest idea that you hold
a trump card in your hand. I want you
to have another spin with them Saturday
morning, and ride Belisarius yourself — it'll
do you more good than all the doctors Bill
if you find him what I think ; don't ask him
to do a heartbreaking thing, but still let
us ask Belisarius the question in real
earnest."

Eight you are, Mr. Slade ; I shall be
perpetually on the fidget till I know the
worst, as old John Day always puts it."

There was an eager discussion that night
at dinner between Slade and his host as
to what weights should be apportioned to
Knight of the Whistle and Belisarius. The

Knight was a five-years old, who from his
youth upwards had always been a fairly
good horse. He was by no means first class,
and his chief merit lay in his being a
consistent performer. If he didn't win
when he Tr-as expected still he was always
there or thereabouts ; and on the training-ground,
as Bill Smith always said, you
might thoroughly depend on what a gallop
with him told you as regarded the young
ones. Slade insisted upon it that if Belisarius
could beat the old horse, in concession
of a stone, it would be quite good enough
for the present, and then it would be time
enough to try him a little higher later on,
whilst Smith was for asking the sterner
question at once. However, after much
discussion, Slade's proposition was agreed
to, and it was determined that the trial
should come off on the Saturday morning.

Eight o'clock on that day consequently
saw the little group gathered together at
the mile-post as on the first morning

Slade had gone up to the moor, with this
rather important difference, that old Bill
Smith himself, his throat enveloped in
many folds of a silk handkerchief, was on
the back of Belisarius. Tom Parrott was
down at the mile-post to start them, while
Norman took up this favourite position halfway
up the ascent which terminated the
gallop. All three boys had their orders, the
best lad in the stable being put on Knight
of the Whistle. At the word ^'Go!" one
of the three-year-olds rushed to the front
and made the running at a smart pace, the
Knight lying second, while Belisarius was
last of all. A quarter-of-a-mile from home
the leader had shot his bolt, and the running
was immediately taken up by the other
three-year-old, the Knight still lying second
and Belisarius last. As they neared the
ascent the Knight assumed the command
and Belisarius crept rapidly up to him.
Just before reaching Norman the brown
colt, pulling double, reached the Knight's
quarters.

It's a monkey to a mousetrap on the
young 'un," muttered Norman Slade, with
a flush of exultation in his dark eyes, when
suddenly Bill Smith stopped riding, eased
his horse, and left Knight of the Whistle to
gallop in two or three lengths in front of him.

By Jove, it has been too much for
him ! " exclaimed Slade, as he hurried
across to speak to the jockey. '' What's
the matter. Bill? Are you faint, or sick, or
what is it ? "

Hush ; nothing is the matter," replied
Bill Smith, as he bent over his saddle-bow.
^' He's a flyer. I could have won the length
of a street if I had gone on, but it would
have been a sin to show him up."

This concluded the work for the morning:.
Belisarius was handed over to his boy, and
Slade and his host, getting into the trap
which had brought them up, made the best
of their way home to breakfast. A very
merry meal was that. The two men were
very jubilant over the event of the morning.

You are quite right, Mr. Slacle ; that
colt is a good deal beyond the common.
The horse would have a chance for any one
of the big races that could beat the Knight at
a stone. I could not only have beaten him
this morning but had a lot in hand besides."
We know enough about Belisarius
now," rejoined Slade, " at all events, to
ensure your not parting with him with the
other two for five hundred pounds. Now,
nobody suspects you of owning a good horse
at present. So you can back him to win
you a good stake for a very trifling outlay.
You stick to the colt and leave the commission
to be worked by Radcliffe and myself.
The horse is very forward, so I suppose
you'll run him for the Two Thousand ? "

Certainly, if all goes well," rejoined
the jockey. '' It's a big stake, and the
opposition don't threaten to be strong. It's
never any use keeping a good horse in the
stable when he is fit to run."

The next day was passed in much talk of

bygone racing-lore. Bill Smith was liiglily
elated at discovering that amongst what he
had deemed his worthless string there was
probably one very high class racer. Money
was scarce with him at the present moment,
but it may be doubted whether five thousand
would have induced him to part with
the horse just now ; and both he and Slade
knew well that there were many men in
England who would gladly have given that
sum for Belisarius on hearing the result of
that morning's gallop. Everything was
arranged between the jockey and his guest
during that last evening.

Bill Smith had settled how much he could
afford to trust his horse with for the Two
Thousand Guineas, and either Slade or
Radcliffe was to do that commission for him
on the former's return to town.

To those three the secret of Belisarius' s
prowess was as yet, if possible, to be confined.
On the Monday Bill Smith drove
his guest to the nearest station, and Slade,

to use his own expression, returned to town
with the winner of the Derby in his pocket.
There was not a little curiosity at Tatter-sail's
the succeeding Monday when Sir
Ronald Radcliffe lounged in a little before
five, and asked, in his languid way, what
they were betting on the Two Thousand.

(c Three to one on the field," exclaimed
one of the leading speculators. " What
do you want to do. Sir Ronald — do you
want it to money ?"

Thank you, Cooksonon," was the reply.
*' I don't want to back the favourite. What
is Chelmsford's price ? "

Six to one," rejoined the bookmaker
promptly. "What shall I put it down to?"

'' You needn't put it down at all," rejoined
Sir Ronald, carelessly. " Who'll
make me a bid against one not mentioned
in the betting ? "

'' What is it. Sir Ronald ? " inquired two
or three bookmakers eagerly.

Belisarius," replied the baronet.

"Bell, what?" cried Cooksonon. "How do
you spell it?"

*' There's the name," rejoined the baron t,
as he showed a page in his betting-book,
upon which Belisarius was clearly written.
"What will any one lay me to a hundred?"

Never heard the name before," rejoined
Cooksonon, sharply. " And it's not a very
good betting-race, but if you like to have
three thousand to a hundred. Sir Ronald,
you can put it down."

All right ! " replied the baronet. " Does
any one want to do it again ? "

There was some little sparring, but eventually
the same odds were laid to the same
amount twice more. Then one of the speculators
produced a *' turf guide " from his
pocket, and exclaimed "Why, it's a dark
colt of old Bill Smith's. Here's twenty to
one, Belisarius, to a hundred. Who will
have it?"

Sir Donald simply shook his head, and,
saying "that he had got quite sufficient,"

VOL. II. D

sauntered out of the subscription-room in
his usual indolent manner.

The sudden appearance of Belisarius in the
betting was much talked of for a day or
two in racing-circles ; and all sorts of wild
rumours were current concerning old Bill
Smith's dark three-year-old. But as no
authentic information regarding him came
to hand, and, in spite of the liberal offers of
the bookmakers, nobody seemed to have the
slightest inclination to back him, Belisarius
faded once more out of the betting. And it
was only now and again at intervals that
here and there a very crafty speculator dribbled
a little bit on him at long shots, on the
sole grounds as he explained that Sir Bonald
Radcliffe wasn't a fool, and that there might
be something in this dark colt after all.
Still, at the rare intervals that the name of
Belisarius cropped up in the betting, it
was always at very long odds. As for Sir
Bonald, he was a reticent man concerning
his turf transactions ; and with a few intimates,

who felt entitled to question, him on
the subject, he simply replied '' that he had
never seen the colt in his life, but that he
believed those connected with him considered
that he had a good chance for the
Two Thousand."

In the meantime Belisarius strides away
over the Yorkshire wold in grand style;
and old Bill Smith, who has entirely shaken
off his gout, grows ^' sweeter " day by day.

D 2

CHAPTER III.

IN THE GAZETTE.

th Hussars. Charles Devereux, gent.,

to be Cornet, versus Langley, promoted.
October 14th." I wonder if there is any
man who has once worn Her Majesty's uniform
who cannot recall the exultation with
which he once read a similar notice in the
Gazette. It is, in all probability, the first
time he has ever seen his name in print;
and, lightly though he may affect to take it,
he still, whenever he can possess himself of
the paper, reads that announcement furtively
for the next day or two. If he does not
carry his head a trifle higher, and feel inclined
to put on some slight amount of

swagger amongst this youthful acquaintance,
then most assuredly he is not of the clay of
which soldiers should be kneaded. Most of
us, I should think, could remember the fever*
heat of those few days after our first appearance
in the Gazette; how anxiously we made
ourselves acquainted with all the braveries
of our regiment ; and, for the matter of that,
dedicated much time to the costumes of the
British army generally. What special designation
our corps might be known by in the
slang of the service was also the subject of
much delight and congratulation. Whether
we were the Slashers, the Springers, the
Need Lancers, or the Dirty Half-hundred,
whether Black Watch or Cameron Highlanders,
was a distinction which it was maddening
that our civilian friends (we had
begun to call them so by this time) failed to
comprehend the importance of. Then came
all the fun of the outfit. The trying-on of
our uniforms (that first experience of the
pomp and circumstance of glorious war) ;

and, though we have a dim recollection of
getting our sword between our legs, of feeling
exquisitely uncomfortable in the unaccustomed
dress generally, and of a tendency
to snigger, on the part of the tailor's young
man, at the awkwardness we displayed in
our new cloth and broidered, still, upon
the whole, it was a joyous time, with life
and the career of our choice all opening
before us.

Charlie Devereux was delighted with the
official letter that confirmed his appearance
in the Gazette, and further informed him
that he was granted leave of absence until
the 31st of December, on which day he was
requested to report himself to the officer

commanding the th Hussars, at York.

Old Tom Devereux had been much pleased
with his son's appointment. He authorised
him to draw for a very liberal sum on account
of his outfit, and further promised to make
him a present of Polestar for first charger,
as soon as that gallant animal had fulfilled

his engagement in the autumn steeplechase
at Lincoln. About this latter there was
considerable excitement at North Leach.
The young one had no doubt come on a
good deal during the year, and was a very
much better horse than he had been in the
spring. Charlie was once more to ride, and
was sanguine about turning the tables on
his successful antagonist of last March.

'' I rode very green then," he cried, "and
allowed myself to be gammoned out of the
race. Whether I could have quite won I
don't know, but I ought to have been much
nearer I am sure. I was looking after
George Pletcher when all the time it was
Jim I ought to have been sticking to."

'' Given the same animals and you ought
to have the best of them this time," said
John Devereux, '' but there's no knowing
what those Fletchers will run ; and, remember,
they are as full of dodges as an old dog-fox.
Next time, Master Charlie, ride your

own race, trust your own judgment, and
don't hang upon them."

To fight the spring battle of the caroline
over again woukl be to weary the
reader. Suffice it to say that Polestar fully
justified the improvement claimed for him
by his friends, and that Charlie, when they
turned into the straight, having satisfactorily
disposed of Jim Pletcher, felt like sailing in
an easy winner, but half way up the distance
George Pletcher, who seemed to Charlie to
have dropped from the clouds, as he had
seen nothing of him after the first half-mile,
challenged, and a desperate race home
ensued between the pair, but Charlie this
time had ridden his horse carefully, and
Polestar had a good bit left in him to finish
with. Holding George Pletcher's riding in
great respect, Charlie determined to let him
get no nearer than he could help ; he was
a length to the good when the final struggle
began, and in spite of all George Fletcher's

efforts he could never quite get up, and
Charlie was returned the winner by a good
neck, to the great glory and jubilation of
North Leach.

New Year's Day saw Charlie Devereux
installed in his new quarters in the barracks
at York, his baggage lead been sent on in
advance, and Bertie Slade had duly seen to
the fit ting-up of the two rooms destined to
become his domicile for the present. He
was iu high spirits, disposed to like everything
and to make light of such disagreeable
as are the inevitable portion of a
soldier's novitiate. Recruit drill and the
riding-school are necessities, but he must bea
very enthusiastic soldier who can describe
them as pleasures. He had been a little
dashed by the confidences of a brother
cornet who was still undergoing the discipline
of the school.

I shan't mind the riding-school," remarked
Charlie confidently; "I've been
iQore or less on the top of a horse from my

childhood, and was good enough to just win
a steeplechase this autumn."

So much the worse for you," rejoined
his new chum. " Our riding-master will
tell you that it's the fellows who think they
can ride give all the trouble. Same way
dismounted drill ; the sergeant always says
it's the gentlemen who thought they learnt
it at their private tutor's that there's no
getting it into. I thought that it would bea
good thing to learn as much as I could
before joining, and now my persecutor says,
You see, Mr. Sparshot, there's so much to
knock out of you before we can put anything
into you.' "

Well," replied Charlie, laughing, " I'm
ignorant of everything, except having learnt
to ride, well, we'll say, in my own
fashion."

Charlie Devereux commenced his military
career about three months before Norman
Slade made that remarkable discovery on
Belton Moor, but neither Bertie Slade nor

himself were even aware of Norman's presence
in Yorkshire.

Amongst many other people who had seen
Charlie's name in the Gazette were the
Kynastons. They were both of course aware
that it was impending, and they both regarded
it as a point to be utilised in their
respective games of life. The major had
again taken on 'the Pirs" as a hunting-box;
it suited him in some respects : first and
foremost, he got the place cheap. It was
not every one who cared to take a hunting-box
in North Lincolnshire, where neighbours
ran scarce, and there was little but the
sheer sport to rely upon for amusement.
Dick Kynaston was undoubtedly very fond
of hunting in his own way; he took his
pleasure leisurely in this respect now, but
he gave the idea of a man who had been
able to " ride a bit " in his youth. He was
a constant attendant at the cover-side, and,
though he always laughingly said his riding

days were over, yet now and again when
fortune favoured him, and the country was
not too stiff, he could hold his own with the
best in a fast thing. As for Mrs. Kynaston,
as before said, she rode in somewhat similar
fashion, taking the role of a mere spectator
for the most part, but some two or three
times in the season showing: that when she
chose the best lady in the hunt would have
to do all she knew to beat Kate Kynaston.

In these country quarters the major
always looked forward to doing a bit of
horse-dealing, and though, whether in the
wolds of Lincolnshire or those of Yorkshire,
experience had shown him how difficult it is
to get the better of the natives in the matter
of horseflesh, the major was still keen as
ever about picking up bargains in that way ;
then again there were always Tally Ho
Stakes and Gone Away Plates to be compassed,
and it afforded the major infinite
amusement if no profit, as witness his disappointment

at Lincoln Spring Meeting, topick
up a horse that he fancied capable of
carrying off such races.

In spite of his resolutions in the early part
of the year he had supported Charlie once
more in the Autumn Hunt Steeple Chase
and won a very nice little stake upon Polestar.
Young Devereux in a hussar regiment
quartered at York he considered would be
decidedly worth cultivating. His far-seeing
eye looked forward to a very pleasant billet
for the York places in the ensuing August.
There was sure to be plenty of card-playing
and billiards, besides the opportunities offered
by the Knavesmire, and it was on these
varied opportunities that the major depended
upon in great part for a living.

The Firs also suited Mrs. Kynaston for
this winter; not only did it allow her to
retain Charlie Devereux within her thrall,
for whose devotion she honestly cared but
little, but it also offered the best possible
chance she knew of seeing something of

Gilbert Slade, and in Gilbert Slade, between
pique and caprice, Mrs. Kynaston was much
interested.

It had been a mere whim in the jB.rst
instance, but the indifference Slade had
showed to her charms, and, latterly, his
evident preference for Lettice herself, had
aroused a very tornado in this wayward
woman's breast. She had dwelt upon it,
brooded upon it, what you will ; but ended
by conceiving herself passionately in love
with the good looking hussar. Bertie Slade
had run down for the day to Lincoln, to see
Charlie ride Polestar, but he had so far put
in no appearance at North Leach ; and, now
that Charlie had joined the regiment, it
was not very likely that he would do so.
Mrs. Kynaston had quite enough knowledge
of things military to know that it
was not very likely young Devereux would
get leave for the first few months, until
he had passed his novitiate in fact ;
and it was hardly likely that Bertie would

come to North Leach, unless he accompanied
his friend.

Gilbert Slade, indeed, when young Devereux
suggested a run home to North Leach
for a few days' hunting, laughed as he replied,
" I can tell you what the chief's reply
will be before you ask him. He will tell
you, ' the York and Ainsty are quite good
enough for you to hunt with for the present
; and it will be time enough for you to
go further a-field when you are through the
school, and have learned your drill.' No,
no, the chief is a rare good sort for leave,
but, as for your wanting it just after you
have joined, he will regard that as unmitigated
cheek."

Charlie accepted his comrade's dictum ;
in reality, he had no great desire to go back
to North Leach. As far as hunting went,
the sport around York would satisfy any
man not wedded to the shires, and the new
life was full of pleasure and amusement to
a young fellow like himself. But then there

were Mrs. Kynaston's instructions, that lie
was to be sure and come back, bring Mr.
Slade with him, and have a week in his own
country, if he could compass it. And Lettice,
too, as she bade him good-bye, had
said, " It would be awfully jolly, Charlie, if
you and Mr. Slade could run down and have
a good gallop or two with us before the season
closes." Well, he had done his best ;
and, as it couldn't be managed, there was
no help for it.

During the latter part of her stay in London,
Mrs. Kynaston had seen a good deal of
Kalpli Purzedon. It had been in the first
instance because her husband had wished
her to do so. Their intimacy had increased
because Eurzedon eagerly cultivated her acquaintance
; and, latterly, because she had
seen her way into making use of him. To
say that she had easily detected Furzedon's
besetting ambition would hardly describe
the case. The man had made a confidant of
her from the first ; she knew how anxious

he was to push himself into society— the
higher the better; but, at all events, into
society of some sort, to start with. She had
clone him more than one good turn in that
respect, and Purzedon clung tenaciously to
her skirts in consequence. Mrs. Kynaston
had of late made up her mind that he
should marry Letty Devereux. Eurzedon
had thought Letty a very pretty girl to start
with ; but it had never entered into his
mind to make her his wife until Mrs. Kynaston
not only planted the idea there, but
tendered it and ministered to it as a delicate
flower requiring careful cultivation. Sbe
was always chanting Lettie's praises.

That girl," she would say, " only requires
to be seen to have half London at
her feet. She is thrown away amongst that
dowdy set of Mrs. Connop's; and she is so
dreadfully loyal to her aunt that I can't
induce her to come about a little under my
chaperonage'*

I should have thought," Eursdon had

VOL. II. E

rejoined, '' that her family was hardly good
enough to give her much chance in the
matrimonial market."

"No chance!" replied Mrs. Kynaston,
with a shrug of her shoulders. " Much you
know about it. The bluest blood in the
peerage in these democratic days mates
either with beauty or money-bags, if it
doesn't do worse than go to the coulisses
for its countess. If Lettie Devereux only
marries a man with a tolerably good fortune
she will speedily be in what society she likes
in London."

Now all this, if not strictly true, was soin
great part. Lettie Devereux was a very
pretty girl, quite likely to make a good
match, and whose antecedents were little
likely to stand in her way should /i man fall
in love with her. Day by day all this sank
deeper and deeper into Mr. Purzedon s mind.
Mrs. Kynaston was far too clever ever to
suggest that Lettie would suit him, she spoke
of the girl always in the abstract, as one

whom nature had so richly endowed that
she must have a brilliant future before her,
always accompanied by regret that that
future was being muddled away by the
bad start she had at Mrs. Connop's. Mrs.
Kynaston dilated upon Lettie's charms in a
manner that her own estimate of them
hardly warranted. Lettice Devereux was
undoubtedly a pretty girl, but she was not
such a striking beauty as it suited her friend
to make out. Anyway, the idea that it
would be a good thing for him to marry
Lettice Devereux was beginning to take a
strong hold on Purzedon's mind. He was a
considerably wealthier man than people had
any idea of. IS'ot only had his father left
him very well off, but recently an uncle had
died who had bequeathed to him a considerable
business of the same nature as the late
lamented Furzedon's. He had turned up his
nose at his father's calling, but that was
when he was young and foolish. A shrewd,
grasping, hard man, devoted to money
2

toR^R1 .iiMOi^

making, he had determine d to carry on this
latter, under an assumed name of course,
but then most usury is conducted on such
principles, and the person with whom a loan
is contracted is apt to be a mere man of
straw acting for a principal in the background.


Now one of the first negotiations that had
fallen to Pursdon's lot after taking up his
uncle's business had tickled that gentleman
immensely. It may be remembered that
Charlie Devereux to meet his losses at Newmarket
had been obliged to borrow money
from Ralph Eurzedon ; he had given his
acceptance in acknowledgment to three bills
of various amounts, but the total of which
came to a considerable sum. Worried about
this, Charlie, it may be borne in mind, had
confided his troubles to Major Kynaston, and
that gentleman had promptly found him the
money with which to redeem those bills
from Furzedon, but to do this the Major
had simply raised the money from a professional

usurer. His knowledge of the money-lenders
in the metropolis was extensive, and
amongst others he had been in the habit of
doings business with Ralph Purzedon's uncle,
who traded, as before said, under an assumed
name. It is easy to conceive how Mr.
Eurzedon chuckled upon discovering that
the acceptances that were redeemed had only
been rescued for acceptances of the same
description bearing usurious interest, instead
of the modest five per cent, with which as a
friend he had contented himself. In short,
poor Charlie's bills had simply been transferred
from one pocket to the other. Major
Kynaston was in profound ignorance of this ;
he was aware of the death of the principal,
but was informed when he called that the
business was carried on as usual, and, having
effected the transaction, had troubled himself
no more.

CHAPTER IV.

THE TWO THOUSAND.

The race for the Two Thousand draws near,
and, though the betting thereon is languid
in proportion to what it usually was in those
grand old gambling days, still this could not
be so much ascribed to the apathy of the
sporting public as to the narrow circumscription
of the betting. The race was
regarded by those conversant in turf matters
as a certainty for Glendower. Such a gift,
indeed, did it look to him, that it was
rumoured there would be hardly any opposition,
and out of the half-dozen possible
runners quoted no one imagined that any
of the number had much chance of defeating

the favourite, whose two-year-old career
had consisted of six or seven unbroken
victories. Glendower, like the upas-tree,
overshadowed and killed the market. In
the teeth of his triumphant career it seemed
sheer madness to back any of his opponents.
But when there suddenly dawned
upon the horizon a dim star like Belisarius,
and when men having been given
time to collect such facts about him as that
he belonged to Bill Smith, the famous north-country
jockey, and that he had been backed
by one so intimately associated with Bill
Smith's former triumphs as Sir Ronald
Radcliffe, it was gradually whispered about
that the Newmarket crack Glendower might
meet his master in the dark colt from the
'north countrey."

It was not that Bill Smith and his friends
had laid out much money on Belisarius,
indeed they were in no position to do so —
some eight hundred pounds at long odds had
been the sum-total of their collective outlay ;

true they had also secured various long shots
about the colt for the Derby ; but none of
them were in a position to risk much money
on a race of any kind, let them fancy it ever
so dearly. Sir Eonald, as bold a plunger
as ever was seen, had from such reckless
speculation so crippled his resources that
a monkey was the utmost left to him to
venture. Much less contented Bill Smith
and Norman Slade ; and therefore it was
sheerly the money of the people and a few
astute turfites that forced Belisarius into a
prominent place in the betting.

If there is one thing the speculative
public are specially fond of in connection
with a horse-race it is a dark colt in the
hands of a well-known man at long odds.
And this was just the very year to foment
such a fancy. It was all very well to say
Glendower must win, but to back Glendower
meant the taking of a very short
price about that noble animals chance.
Amongst the others it was impossible to

make out with any due regard to their
previous performances that any of them
could have the slightest chance of beatings
the favourite. There is no telling how good
a horse may be that has never run ; it is
equally true that the converse of the proposition
holds good.

'' Bill Smith is a clever man," argued the
public, " and is a great horseman still, if he
chooses to take care of himself; it is quite
evident that he fancies this colt of his, and
there is no better judge than he ; surely he
will keep steady to ride his own horse, and
if he only does that old Bill's good enough
to tackle the very best of 'em yet." And
thus reasoning the ever-sanguine army of
backers began, with that heroic constancy
that ever characterises them, to stake their
money freely on Belisarius. In vain did
bookmakers ask each other what this might
mean. The cry had gone forth that Belisarius
"was good goods for The Guineas."
And those who went down to the lists and

staked, and their number was numerous as
those who go down to the sea in ships, with
one accord invested their money on the
dark colt of the North, And thus it came
to pass, that as the race drew nigh Belisarius
was installed a strong second favourite. It
was rumoured indeed that, though quoted
at two or three points longer odds in the
betting, he for all that carried more money
than the hitherto unbeaten Glendower.

Norman Slade and his brother conspirator,
Sir Ronald, were in as high a state of excitement
as it was possible for two Veteran
turfites to arrive at. Every two or three
days brought Norman Slade a mysterious
telegram from Belton Moor, couched in
agricultural language that must have somewhat
mystified the clerks engaged in the
transmission of the message. Such intelligence
as ^' Sheep doing well," " Mutton
still commands a good price," &c. &c.,
seemed hardly worth flashing through the
wires, but all such messages conveyed to

Slade the assurance that Belisarius was progressing
favourably and was in the best of
health. There are two more of our acquaintance
who are also much interested in the
coming result of the Two Thousand, and
these are Bertie Slade and young Devereux.
Norman, as was his custom, had written to
his favourite nephew some three or four
weeks back, and informed him that if ho
would like to have a bet upon The Guineas
he could stand a tenner in his, Norman's,
book. Now it so happened that when he
received this letter Charlie Devereux was
sitting in his quarters, and had just been
unbosoming himself of his troubles with
regard to those bills. The Major's friendly
assistance had of course proved only temporary;
the question had, as it inevitably
must, reopened itself once more, with trio
unpleasant addition that, like the snowball,
these bills had gathered in bulk as time
rolled on. Charlie had taken very much to
Slade almost from the very first; to begin

with, he might have been said to almost owe
his commission to Gilbert ; then, again, he
had all the admiration that a facile disposition
always has for a hard reticent character
so exactly its antithesis. The trouble of
these bills weighed heavy on the young man
as it is wont to do with young men who are
so free with their autograph in the dawn of
pecuniary difficulties. He had just made a
clean breast of it to Gilbert.

I can't go to the governor about it.
You see, lie has just had to shell out an
awful lot of money for the outfit, horses, &c.,
to say nothing of his having had to pay up a
good bit for me when I left Cambridge."

'well, you see, Master Charlie, this is
rather a stifle order ; to get you out of your
scrape requires a thousand pounds, and I
tell you honestly, unless your father will
assist you, I don't see to whom you can
apply. Very few of us are blest with a
relation whom we can ask to help us over
such a shocking tall style as this. Let me

think," and for a few minutes Gilbert Slacle
stared into the fire, and seemed wrapped in
thought.

To do Charlie justice, no idea of seeking
any other aid than advice had ever crossed
his brain when he confided his troubles to
his new friend. As for Gilbert, if only half-a-dozen
years older in age, he was many
years older in knowledge of the world than
his comrade. " A deuced bad start," he
thought, "for a young one to join hampered
in this way ; of course he must come to his
governor in the end, but, as he says, it is
rather an inopportune moment to bring his
necessities before him just now."

^'Now, Devereux," he said, at last, 'i've
thought it all over, and I'll tell you what
you must do. It is clear as noonday that
your father will have to pay those bills
sooner or later. You ought to have made a
clean breast of it when you were gazetted,
and told him then and there, that, unless he
was prepared to pay that sum for you, your

joining the regiment was an impossibility.
No use talking any more about that, you
didn't do it. The question is, what you had
better do now. First of all, you must write
to Kynaston, and ask him on what terms he
can make arrangements for carrying over
those bills for another six months; secondly,
I can put you in the way of a chance of
winning as much money as might suffice for
that purpose. It won't pay them, but it
will possibly obviate the necessity of going
to the home authorities for another six
months."

That would be a great point," replied
Charlie, ever willing to postpone the unpleasant
explanation if possible, and at the
same time keen to learn what it was his
friend was about to recommend, for he
already conjectured that the opportunity of
winning money Gilbert spoke of was in
some way connected with the turf.

"I've just heard from my uncle Norman,"
replied the other, " and he has offered

to let me stand in ten pounds with him about
a horse he has backed for The Guineas.
Now, if you like, this time I'll ask him
to let me have a pony, and we will go halves
in it. It won't make much difference to you
if you do lose those few pounds "

"What's the horse?" exclaimed Charlie.
Gilbert Slade laughed as he replied, " Alien
my Uncle Gilbert distributes his benefits
he takes very good care there shall be no
idle babbling. I can't tell you, because I
don't know. He makes me that offer, and
all he says is, ' The horse will run welland
stands at very much longer odds at
present than he has any business to do.'
Those who know Norman Slade will tell you
that's a good deal for him to say, and I put
much more faith in it than I should in the
most glowing account from any one else."

*^ It's very good of you, and I'm only too
glad of the chance. I hope we shall have
the excitement of knowing what the horse is
before the race is run''

'' Never fear' replied Bertie ; '' there's
no more business-like man than my uncle.
Two or three days before the race I shall
get a line containing the exact note of the
bet ; but Uncle Norman is always mute as the
grave about stable secrets till it is too late for
their disclosure to be of any consequence."

It is the morning of the Two Thousand,
and the furore for Belisarius had somewhat
cooled down. The horse had arrived at
Newmarket all right a couple of days previous,
and had duly galloped and been looked
over on the Heath. But he failed to please
the cognoscenti. Newmarket, ever prejudiced
against a horse not trained in their
midst, picked all sorts of holes in Belisarius.
His action was lumbering ; he was coach ;
he looked like a non-stayer; he would tire to
nothing in the last two hundred yards. Such
were the verdicts of the horse-watchers,
and also of others who ought to have been
better judges of the northern colt's powers.

'' Well' said Sir Eonald, with just the
faintest shade of anxiety perceptible in his
tone, as stepping from the " special " he
was met on the platform by Norman Slade,
how's the colt ? They've been rather
knocking him about in the London market
the last twenty-four hours."

"Eit to run for his life," rejoined Slade;
and, what's equally to the point, old Bill
is very fit too. He is keeping himself wonderfully
quiet, sticking to his horse ; and is
not to be drawn into sitting up and conviviality.
He is in real earnest this time;
but, if it comes off, I'm sadly afraid he will
make up for his present self-restraint. If
he wins on Belisarius to-day I'm afraid he'll
make a royal night of it."

They don't think much of Belisarius
here, I suppose?" said Sir Bonald, as they
got into the fly which was to convey them
to Norman Slade's lodgings, so that the
baronet might get something to eat before
starting for the course.

VOL. II. F

'' No," replied Slade ; " Newmarket never
believed in a north-country horse till it has
Avell beaten all they have got to bring
against it."

On the Heath, from the very beginning
of the racing, it was matter of universal
comment what a dull affair the great race
of the meeting was likely to prove. It was
now known that the field had dwindled
down to half-a-dozeQ runners; and, though
all of these were backed in some fashion,
still it was only Glendower and Belisarius
who were backed in anything like earnest.
As a well-known member of the Jockey
Club observed, " If it hadn't been for the
advent of this dark colt from the North
the Two Thousand would have been for all
practical purposes a Avalk-over." Belisarius,
although he might not find favour with the
Newmarket people and the majority of
racing-men, yet had lost none of his attraction
for the public. The dark horse who
had never yet been seen on a racecourse,

and against whom five and six to one could
be obtained, had a fascination for them that
outbalanced all Glendower's victories, and
they steadily supported their champion in
defiance of the sums that went down upon
the favourite at a price that had gradually
shortened to seven to four. However, the
saddling-bell has rung, the competitors
are paraded in the Birdcage, and in a few
minutes more make their way down to the
starting-post. Por a moment Bill Smith
checks his horse and bends over his shoulder
as he passes Norman on his way out.

'^ It's all right, Mr. Slade," he murmurs.
I shall just come straight away from the
dip" ; and strangle them."

Norman simply nodded in reply, and then
went off" with Sir Ronald to witness the
race.

The tale of that Two Thousand is soon

told. The handful of horses were easily

despatched by the starter, and run at a

muddling pace for a good half the distance.

F 2

Descending the hill Glendower assumed the
lead and improved the pace. At the Bushes
he came right away from his field, with the
exception of Belisarius, who was going
strong a bare two lengths in rear on the
whip-hand. As they breasted the ascent the
north-country colt ran up to his antagonist
and challenged, and for the next hundred
yards it was a ding-dong struggle between
them. Then Belisarius got the best of it,
and, wearing down his antagonist, Bill
Smith came right away in the last fifty
yards and won easily by a couple of
lengths.

A great cheer rent the air as the numbers
went up ; but in the Jockey Club stand, and
amongst the gentlemen generally, there was
a portentous silence. Neither was there
much exultation shown by the bookmakers ;
it was the general public that had won the
money, and it was the lungs of the general
public that boisterously proclaimed their
satisfaction at the result of the race.

A great coup"" said Slade ; '' but nothing
to what we shall bring ofP at Epsom."

It is a coup'' replied the baronet ; '' and
we ought to have a good chance of winning
the Derby, and our double-event money as
well. Belisarius appears to me as sound a
colt as ever I looked over."

'eyes," rejoined Slade, ''he is sound
enough wind and limb. I'm not afraid of
the horse, it's the man. Belisarius will
stand the training all right. I wish I felt
as certain about Bill Smith."

I should think he might be trusted to
keep steady now till after the Derby," replied
the baronet.

I don't know," replied Norman Slade ;
"you see he was short of money and shaky of
reputation ; and the bringing off of this Two
Thousand meant a good deal to him. Men
like Bill don't thrive upon success."

CHAPTER V.

"you shall never marry him."

Great was Charlie Devereux's exultation
when the telegram reached York containing
the news of Belisarius's victory. A formal
line had been received by Bertie from his
uncle a couple of days before, in which lie
notified the fact that Bertie had an excessively
nice bet of six hundred to twenty-five
against Belisarius for The Guineas, and now
this comfortable stake was satisfactorily
landed. As for young Devereux, with the
sanguine nature of youth, he at once saw
himself clear of all his financial difficulties.

It's all your doing, old fellow," he cried,
as he clasped Bertie's hand warmly. '' I'm
awfully grateful ; it was a great inspiration
of mine to come and bore you with all my
troubles."

"Never mind about that, but just bear in
mind. Master Charlie, you're a long way off
being out of the wood at present. You've
won three hundred pounds, but you don't
suppose the holder of those bills will let you
renew without a bonus, do you ? You are
in the hands of the money-lenders now. I'm
happy to say I've never been driven to seek
their services myself; but I've had something
to do with them on behalf of a great
pal of mine, and am tolerably well versed in
the ways of those gentlemen. The holder
of those bills, in the first place, will make
you pay pretty smartly for their renewal. I
should guess about a hundred pounds. How
are you going to pay off a thousand pounds
with the remaining two hundred?"

Don't you see ?" replied Charlie, with a

look of preternatural sagacity. ^' Of course
I immediately put that two hundred on
Belisarius for the Derby — he's at three
to one now — providing your uncle fancies
his chance. Well, if that comes off, I shall
have got eight hundred together towards
clearing myself."

Good !" replied Bertie ; " how about the
remainder ? Remember, there '11 be another
six months' interest on, which, at the price
you're paying, will have added a hundred
and fifty to the original debt."

I forgot that," replied young Devereux,
as his countenance fell somewhat ; '' I suppose
there '11 be nothing for it, then, but to
make a clean breast of it to the governor."

That's right," said Slade; "you do that.
Wait till after the Derby ; and then, win or
lose, let them know the worst at home. It's
better, anyhow, that you should be let in for
one month's interest rather than six."

And so it was agreed between them that
Charlie should await the result of the great

struggle on Epsom Downs, and then confess
the scrape he had got into to old Tom
Devereux.

A very few days brought a letter from
Major Kynaston ; and Bertie's knowledge
of the ways of money-lenders proved only
too accurate. The Major wrote :
'' My DEAR Devereux,

^' I have made the best terms I can
with Jordan and Co., but they will have
their pound of flesh, you know. Robbers,
rank robbers, every one of them ; but pray
bear in mind that when I first suo^o^ested
your applying to them you were dreadfully
oppressed by the weight of your obligations
to Purzedon. I agreed with you, as any man
in the world would, that, bad as was the
necessity for seeking assistance from a professional
money-lender, it was better than
remaining under such an obligation to a
friend. The rascals insist on having a hundred
down, and in consideration of that will
let the bills run on for another six months,

at fifteen per cent, for that time. This is
the best I can do for you. Give me your
consent, and inclose a cheque for the hundred,
and you will hear no more of Jordan
and Co. for six months.
Ever yours,

Echard KyNASTON."

The scoundrels ! " exclaimed Bertie,
after reading this letter. "You must stick
to your resolution, Devereux ; win or lose at
Epsom, mind. These vultures are charging
you just forty per cent, for the accommodation."


If Bertie Slade could have only guessed
the state of the case, scoundrels would have
been not half a strong enough word to have
applied to the robbers into whose clutches
young Devereux had fallen. In the first
place, half the bonus went into Kynaston's
pocket, for having introduced Mr. Devereux
to Jordan and Co. Secondly, as we already
know, Jordan and Co. was no other than
Ealph Eurzedon. Consequently, poor Charlie

in reality was being shamelessly stripped
and plundered by a couple of men whom he
looked upon as intimate friends.

The following week brought a most satisfactory
letter from Norman Slade, intimating
that he had paid six hundred pounds
into Bertie's account at Cox's, and saying,
that he fancied Belisarius's chance for the
Derby very much. " The Two Thousand
Guineas," he went on to say, '' was a good
public trial; and I can only say, he beat
Glendower a good deal more easily than we
expected. He is as well now as one could
wish him ; and, should he only continue soit
will take a right good colt to beat him at
Epsom." It need scarcely be said that this
letter thoroughly confirmed Charlie Devereux
in his resolution. He sent off the required
cheque to Kynaston, and forthwith
proceeded to put the remainder of his Winnings
on Belisarius for the Epsom race ;
and that done, as he said to Bertie Slade,
There is nothing now for me to do but to

sit down and wait. I feel like a man who
has insured himself to the extent of his
ability."

"Yes," rejoined Slade, laughing, "we can
only trust that the insurance office may not
prove a bogus concern. Such insurance as
yours is hardly recommended by our grave
and reverend signers "

What a disagreeable beast you are,
Bertie," cried young "Devereux, laughing ;
I don't see why you should always take
such a very gloomy view of my affairs."

"Not at all," rejoined Slade, " you'll pull
through all right enough ; I was only laughing
at the queer view you take of things. You
speak as if you had done a highly virtuous
action in endeavouring to extricate yourself
from your difficulties by putting every shilling
you can lay your hands on on this race.
I doubt, for instance, if your father would
quite view it in that light."

Don't preach, Bertie ; I cannot work,
and to beg I am ashamed. If I only knew

YOU SHALL NEVER MARRY HIM." 77

how to make this money by work, you'd see
I wouldn't flinch from it. This is my sole
chance ; and I don't see much harm in
dashing down my winnings again."

•' Nor is there," rejoined Bertie, still
laughing, '' only don't take quite such a
high moral tone about it. Hurrah for Belisarius
! I shall trust him with a pony myself,
just to pay expenses; and, if all's well,
in the Derby week we'll run up and seethe
race. A week's leave is always given
to all who wish to assist in that festival."

Mr.Purzedon, during the autumn months,
had been turning over Mrs. Kynaston's advice
in his own mind. He had at last
come to the conclusion, considerably swayed
in his judgment, be it borne in mind, by the
aforesaid Mrs. Kynaston, that Lettice Devereux
would make him a very suitable wife.
Shrewd, quick-witted, and cynical, the man
judged for himself, and pretty accurately, in
that world he knew — the world of the racecourse,
of club, smoking-rooms, of the stage,

the demi-monde ; but of that social world to
which he aspired Ralph Pursdon was not
only very ignorant, but credulous in the extreme
of those whom he believed to have its
entree.

The Kynastons he thoroughly believed to
possess this passport. That Dick Kynaston
was what he was did not in the least surprise
Eurzedon ; he was quite prepared for
lax morality in high places. The papers
unfortunately bear pretty constant evidence
that the cream of society is no better than
its humbler brethren on those points. What
did tickle ilalph Purzedon amazingly was,
that while he as a tacit partner with Kingston
was, when opportunity served, introducing
young men with expectations to the
Major, that worthy — all unconscious — was
bringing them back to Jordan and Co., alias
Ralph Purzedon, for relief of their necessities.

But in Mrs. Kynaston Mr. Purzedon believed
immensely. He looked upon her asa
clever woman, moving in the very best

YOU SHALL NEVER MARRY HIM." 79

society, and, to use his own expression,
Knowing the ropes, able to hold her own
with the best ; little likely to make any mistake
in her judgment of things." 'rand,"
said Ralph Pursdon to himself, 'this woman
looks upon it that Lettice Devereux will give
any man with a little money, who marries
her, a great social start."

In almost any other groove of life the man
would have depended upon his own judgment,
but upon this point he was not only
crazed but conscious of his ignorance. We
have all our ambitions; andEalphParzedon's
was to force his way into the best society.
He had always admired Lettice, but had
never dreamt of her as a wife till the idea
had been instilled into his mind by Mrs.
Kynaston. He had plenty of assurance, and
perhaps rated his personal appearance as
high as most people. He was a good-looking
man, but there was that indefinable something
which the moment he came amongst
experts would be certain to arouse curiosity

as to his antecedents. Still, with all his
self-confidence, though he hardly liked to
admit it, he had a hazy idea that Lettice
Devereux was not quite the girl to be had
for the asking ; that she was a young lady
upon whom the revelation of his wealth
might produce hut little impression; and,
moreover, that she was quite capable of not
being properly impressed with all the advantages
— personal and otherwise— that he
was prepared to lay at her feet.

Like the astute calculator he was, Mr.
Furzedon at once began to reckon what
trumps he held in his hand. He thought he
could depend upon Mrs Kynaston to forward
his interests, and be looked upon her
as a very tower of strength could he but prevail
upon her to espouse his cause. "Then,"
he thought, with an evil smile, " there are
those bills of Charlie's ; a cornet in a fast
dragoon regiment is not likely to get much
nearer liquidating them, and they grow, they
grow. I wonder, by the way, how the deuce

he found that last hundred to renew with !
Well, well, sisters before now have been
known to wed to help a favourite brother
out of a scrape; when the time comes, I trust
Lettice Devereux will be too entangled to
escape. I wish that fellow Slade didn't hang
about her quite so much. Unlucky for me
Charlie getting into the same regiment ; she
is likely to see more of him on that account ;
and it strikes me he has no idea of neglecting
such opportunities as fall in his way.
If he ever wants to borrow money I will
make it easy for him. I'd risk a good deal
to get him upon my books."

I suppose you have given up all hope of
seeing Charlie down again this season ? "
said Mrs. Kynaston, one afternoon that Lettie
had ridden over to call upon her.

Yes ; he declares that he cannot get
away, and raves about the sport he is having
with the York and Ainsty, and how splendidly
Polestar carries him. Brothers are awfully
selfish. No ; I don't quite mean that ; but

VOL. II. G

Charlie knew I had so reckoned upon his
coming down and our having a few more
good gallops together."

'' Ah, well," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
men are fond of change ; and just at present
your brother is dazzled with all the
glitter of mess, and the swagger of a military-life
generally. Still, I do wonder he has not
come home. I should have thought he would
have been unable to resist the pressure put
upon him."

"I'm sure I've said all I can," replied
Miss Devereux.

"Ah," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston, with a
most provoking smile, " I was thinking of
a much stronger influence than yours, my
dear. If Mr. Slade had been as much in
earnest as we had thought him "

You have no right to say we," interrupted
Lettie hotly; "I am sure I never
thought "

Of course not," interrupted Mrs. Kynaston
in her turn, "as I thought him,

he'd have made Charlie bring him down to
North Leach before now."

"There is nothing to prevent Mr. Slade
coming here on his own account, if he
pleases. Father gave him a general invitation
to come and have a few days with the
Brocklesby any time he liked this winter."

"What, when you were at Lincoln?"
replied Mrs. Kynaston.

Lettie nodded.

He can hardly be said to have shown
himself keen to take advantage of the invitation."


I suppose he waited to come with
Charlie, and now he finds Charlie can't
come it is getting too late."

I don't believe in that ' can't come.' I
know too much of soldiering for that. A
man may not be able to get away a certain
week, but don't tell me he can't get away
any week in the course of the winter. Depend
upon it, Mr. Slade has not been half
a dozen years in the army without being
gable

to tell your brother how a trifle like
that might be managed''

Now out of her military lore Mrs. Kynaston
did know that Charlie would have
most likely some difficulty in obtaining
leave just at present, but she was anxious
for her own purposes to make Miss Devereux
believe that Gilbert Slade was not in
earnest in his attentions. He had no doubt
shown much devotion to Lettice during the
latter part of his stay in town. Mrs. Kynaston
had not been present at the Lincoln
autumn races ; but she had gathered
that Gilbert had hardly left Lettie's side the
whole day, and had heartily accepted old
Tom Devereux's cordial invitation to 'come
and bide a bit with us, Mr. Slade, and have
a look at the hunting in our country."

But many such invitations are given every
year, and, though both sides are thoroughly
in earnest in the contract, circumstances
forbid their ever coming to pass. Mrs.
Kynaston was too wise to say more, but

she had attained her object in some measure.
Lettie's pride had taken fire at the
thought that she was beginning to think
seriously about a man who was simply indulging
himself in an idle flirtation with her.

^' Have you seen anything of your other
admirer?" asked Mrs. Kynaston, after a
rather prolonged pause.

"My other admirer?" replied Lettie; '' I'm
sure I don't know who you mean — I certainly
can count perhaps half-a-score men
who are very civil to me, and like to
dance with me, but I really couldn't single
out one with any apparent desire for anything
more."

How innocent we are," replied Mrs.
Kynaston, laughing " My dear Lettie, you
don't require to be told that Mr. Purzcdon
adores the very ground you walk on."

'' Nonsense," replied Miss Devereux, " he
has always been civil, as an intimate friend
of Charlie's naturally would be, but Tm
sure he has never said a word of the kind

you suggest to me — and what's more I don't
think I much like Mr.Purzedon."

'' I wouldn't be in too great a hurry to
make up my mind about that," said Mrs.
Kynaston, *'he is a good-looking man, and
Dick tells me he has lots of money. I
assure you many girls would think twice
before they would say Ralph Eursdon nay."

'' Well, it doesn't matter," rejoined Lettie.
'' You are quite mistaken ; it is not likely
I shall be called upon to decide that question
; and now I must scamper home, if you
will allow me to ring for my horse." A few
minutes more and Miss Devereux had said
"good-bye." Mrs. Kynaston stood watching
her as she mounted. " Yes," she muttered,
"I like you better than any girl I ever
met ; and I'd have been loyal to you, too,
Lettie, if Gilbert Slade had not come between
us ; but I cannot give him up to you.
You shall never marry him, if it is within
my power to prevent it."

CHAPTEE VI.

MR. black's tip.

The winter presses hard upon the poorer
classes generally ; work becomes scarce, and
days become short, just as we seem to require
more light, more food, more fire, more
clothes, more of everything. Our wants expand
as the means to supply them shorten ;
or, sad to say, in some cases disappear altogether.
The sole trade that seems to thrive
in this dark time is that of the burglar, who
finds the season propitious ; and, if he has
the good fortune to evade the emissaries oi
the law, easily acquires the wherewithal to
indulge in the riotous living in which his
soul delighteth. Upon no class, perhaps,

does a hard winter press more heavily than
the hangers-on of the turf ; men who, while
racing is going on, pick up a mysterious
living as small bookmakers, as horse-watchers,
as turf-advisers to young (can't
be too young) gentlemen. I am speaking
of those who are "indifferent honest." As
for the scum, who are a disgrace to our
racecourses, it is more than probable that
they take to burglary during the winter
months; having spent the summer in robbery,
there would be nothing repugnant to
their feelings in housebreaking during the
close term.

But, to see these small betting-men, who
in the summer season are so blatant, boisterous,
and self-assured, habited in white
hat, and the rather remarkable coats that
they affect, and then to see the limp, luckless
individuals, with dilapidated head covering,
scanty raiment, and broken boots, who in
hoarse tones, more graphically designated a
'^ gin-and.fog voice," murmur into your ears

a lioj)e that you can spare half-a-crown, or
peradventure half-a-sovereign, to assist a
broken-down sportsman. To see them, I
repeat, in the wintry weather, it is hard
to believe they are the same individuals.
The brazen self-assurance is all out of them
now ; and they really are as hard put to it
for a living as any class in modern Babylon.
They are to be met with, for the most part,
anywhere between Charing Cross and St.
Paul's Cathedral ; they gravitate, principally,
towards the Lydgate Circus. Among
these men, Sam Prance was a good typical
specimen of his class ; he had begun life as
assistant to a pawnbroker, and that pawnbroker
had been Ealph Purzedon's uncle ;
hence had arisen the connection between
them. What had produced the undying enmity
which Prance bore to the man who
now stood in his dead master's shoes is
about to be explained. Prom his boyish
days Ralph Eurzedon was precocious, vicious,
and cunning ; and even at fifteen began to

SADDLE AND SABRE.

gamble on the turf. He was liberally supplied
with money by his guardians, and the
Jewish instinct in his veins led him even
then to turn over such little capital as he
possessed by speculating in the unredeemed
pledges in his uncle's shop. He would
often, with the assistance of Prance, invest
money, say in the purchase of a ring. This
would be left still exposed for sale in the
shop window. In the course of two or three
weeks a pound or two profit would usually
be realised by the sale of it. Such profits
young Furzedon, again through Prance, invested
on the turf; he was shrewd, he was
fortunate, and the result of his betting was
decidedly profitable.

The first thing fatal to Prance in this connection
was, that he too got bitten with a
taste for turf speculation. Like all beginners,
he was lucky at first, and this led to
too great intimacy between young Ralph
and himself. Purzedon became an habitual
visitor at Prance's house. Mrs. Prance

was a pretty and extremely vain young
woman ; the compliments and attentions of
her visitor turned her head ; don't mistake
me, and think there was anything farther
than the most open flirtation between
them, but Furzedon's flatteries sank deep
into Mrs. Prance's mind. That she was a
very pretty woman, and that if she was only
properly dressed she would have the world
at her feet, became part of Mrs. Prance's
creed. Sam was making money ; it was
ridiculous, he must allow her more for dress.
They must live in better style, and so Prance
was gradually worried into giving up the
modest and comfortable tenement in which
he had dwelt for the last three years in
favour of a showy, comfortless, suburban
villa. He vowed he couldn't afford it, but,
for all that, he took it.

Mrs. Prance was not an atom in love with
her boyish admirer, but for all that she was
very proud of her captive ; he belonged to a
class superior to her own, at all events in

her eyes, and the lady had a halcyon dream
of being surrounded by a knot of admirers —
gentlemen — and not mere tradesmen, like
most of her husband's friends. Well ! the
sequel was not long in coming. Luck
turned, and Prance, who had been very far
from confining his speculations to such as
were deemed advisable by his young patron,
got into difficulties ; the usual result was the
consequence. Sam Prance, if he did not
actually, metaphorically 'put his hand in
the till "; he was detected in dishonest practices
by his master, and, though old Nicholas
Purzedon declined to prosecute, yet Mr.
Prance was promptly turned out of his
situation, and told that he need look for no
recommendation from his employer to assist
him in procuring another, that he might
consider himself fortunate to have escaped
the inside of a prison.

And now came slow and grinding misery
for Sam Prance, his goods were sold, and he
had to move into shabby lodgings, carrying

with him a peevish, discontented wife. With
the final catastrophe Pardon directly had
nothing to do ; whether his relations latterly
had been as innocent with Mrs. Prance
as the lady protested, her husband had
jealous misgivings, but certain it was, that
when after months of wrangling she finally
left her home Purzedon was not the partner
of her flight. From that date. Prance regarded
Purzeclon as the originator of all
his troubles ; despairing of employment, he
sank into a mere jackal of the racecourse,
and when times went hard with him appealed
to Purzedon for assistance ; this, in the first
instance, had been somewhat grudgingly extended,
but no sooner did that gentleman
detect an obvious disposition on Prance's
part to live upon him than he repelled him
with the utmost scorn, he even taunted the
wretched man with his bad luck, and
declared that his wife had been right to
leave so pitiful a creature. The idea that
at first had possessed Prance's morbid mind

seethed and festered. He traced every ill
that had befallen him to Furzedon's door.
It was true enough that, in some fashion, it
had been Ralph Eurzedon's precocious devilry
that had wrought his undoing, but, for all
that, his own weakness and cupidity had nota
little to say to it. Further applications
for assistance were met with still more
bitter rejoinders on Purzedon's part, until
the quarrel between them finally culminated
when, flushed by drink. Prance had attempted
to robPurzedon that night in the Haymarket,
and been stricken to the ground. A righteous
blow was that cruel left-hander, a blow such
as a man is well justified in striking in
defence of his property, but it filled to the
brim the cup of Sam Prance's animosity,
and his own prayer was that the day might
come when the opportunity would be given
him to settle accounts with Ralph Purzedon.
He was quite aware that he held many
secrets of that gentleman, and information
as to his mode of life, which, though in noway

inimical to him in a legal sense, might,
deftly promulgated at the proper moment,
be his social ruin, and no Indian on the war-trail
hided his opportunity with more vengeful
vigilance than did Sam Prance.

Fortune, it so happened, was throwing the
chance he longed for into his way. Major
Kynaston was one of Mr. Prance's most
liberal patrons. The broken man had conceived
a strong liking for the major ; he
knew him to be no fool, though he was freehanded.
He would toss his jackal a sovereign
sometimes, saying good-humouredly, '' Your
information is not worth a cent. I've later
myself concerning the horse; and know that,
however well you saw it gallop last Friday
morning, it will not be seen at the post ; the
stable can't get their money on. Never
mind ; you're hard up, as usual, I daresay ;
take that, and perhaps next time you will
be able to tell me something better worth
knowing."

So far, Mr. Prance was in ignorance of the

connection between the Major and Purzedon.
That they were acquainted he was aware.
He had seen them speak on a racecourse,
but he had no idea that their acquaintance
was other than of the most ordinary description.
Still, it is more than likely that a clue
to their association will be before long in
Sam Prance's hands, though what use he
will be able to make of such knowledge
when he comes to it is not quite so clear.

Sam Prance had lived through the winter
months he really hardly knew how, but
never had he been harder put to it to keep
<be wolf from the door than he had this
time. It was the period of the year at which
there was little chance of his running across
his racing patrons, men to whom he could
appeal in extremity. He had the address, it
is true, of some of these who employed him
as a tout, and rewarded him for such information
as he might send them ; but a manlike
Prance, who had not the means requisite
for leaving London, had small opportunity

of picking up intelligence, and to all other
appeals his patrons had mostly turned a deaf
ear. Dick Kynaston was a bright exception.
Like most buccaneers, the Major, as before
said, was free-handed. He had been fortunate
during the autumn months, whether
by cards or racing matters little; and had
contrived, in his own vernacular, ''to land
a nice little pot." He replied to Prance's
piteous cry for assistance by sending him a
five-pound note, and the man felt more than
ever grateful for such help in his present
extremity. With the season Mr. Prance
resumed his regular avocations ; he was by
turns tout, betting-man, and tipster. As a
tout he had no information to impart, to
resume the calling of a betting-man he must
first acquire some small amount of capital,
but to be a tipster requires nothing beyond
pen, ink, and paper, and a modest amount of
postage-stamps. But Mr. Prance was dead
out of luck, and even his guesses at the

VOL II. H

winners of the Lincolnshire Handicap, Sdc,
proved unfortunate.

Men are not given to reward the giver of
information which leads to the loss of their
money. And, therefore, this latter industry,
let him cultivate it never so sedulously,
brought little grist to Mr. Prance's mill.
But April had brought a change in his
fortunes ; he was walking gloomily up the
Strand, when he suddenly ran across a bookmaker
with whom he had done business in
more prosperous days. The thought struck
him ; he stopped him, and exclaimed, *' Mr.
Black, give a poor devil, who is clean broke,
a chance "

'well, you do look *dead stoney,' and
that's a fact," rejoined the bookmaker.
What is it you want?"

Give me a tip, and a trifle to back it. I
can't pick a winner myself nohow."

"Well," replied Mr. Black, 'there's half a
sovereign for you. As for the tip, remember,
I don't know much about it, but I advise

you to put it on Belisarius for the Two
Thousand. You'll get something like twelve
or fourteen to one ; at least, they were laying
hundreds to sevens an hour ago in there,"
and Mr. Black jerked his thumb in the
direction of the Victoria Club.

How Belisarius won the Two Thousand
we already know, and it is almost needless
to say that Sam Prance profited a little
thereby. Prom that out he haunted the
neighbourhood of Wellington Street in the
hopes of once more coming across that good-natured
bookmaker. It was some days
before he succeeded in doing that : though,
thanks to the few sovereigns he had won
over the Two Thousand, he was now more
respectably attired, yet he had not the
audacity to call at the club and ask for Mr.
Black. When you have been half-starved
and half-frozen through a long winter you
do not recover your assurance all at once.
Prance had been so utterly brow-beaten in
his misery that he had not as yet thoroughly
11 2

recovered bis nerve, and shrank from meeting
a rebuff. However, his patient vigilance
was at last rewarded, and be once more
CD countered Mr. Black. He of course
stopped bim to thank him for the turn be
had done him, and wound up by asking bim
whether be fancied Belisarius for the Derby.

"No," rejoined the bookmaker, ''I don't.
I know no more now than I did last time. I
am guided entirely by the money-market.
On his Newmarket performance be ought to
be a much hotter favourite than he is.
What they are g'^ing on I don't know, but
there are certain men, who seldom make a
mistake, seem to have the amount of the
National Debt to lay against Belisarius.
That's all I know about it. Prance, and I
should not be at all surprised to see Belisarius
go back in the betting at the last. If
he don't, it will be a very warm Monday
indeed for two or three of them."

Sam Prance, as he walked away, cogitated
deeply upon how he might best turn Mr.

Black's bint to his profit. He had neither
capital nor credit to make much of laying
against Belisarius, and certainly, after what
he had heard, had no wish to back him. It
occurred to him that the best thing he could
do was to carry his news to Major Kynaston.

The Major would understand how to make
the most of such intelligence as well as any
man, and he knew from past experience that
when his patron won a good stake he was
liberal to any of his dependants who conduced
to the result. He had recommended
Kynaston to back Belisarius for The Guineas,
and found it quite as profitable as backing
it himself.

The hint has proved well worth paying
for, Sam," the Major had said to him upon
that occasion. ^' I told you last summer to
keep a sharp look-out as to whether they
had a good two-year-old in the North. You
got hold of him a little late — we ought to
have been on at double the odds."

But when Mr. Prance made his appearance

in Mayfair, and communicated his new
intelligence, Dick Kynaston exclaimed : —

If you're sure of what you say there is
more money in this than there was in the
other, but look here, Sam, there must be no
mistake about it. One reason I have stood
to you rather is that whatever your information
might be you have always told me
exactly where you got it, and I could depend
upon its accuracy ; now, no nonsense, tell
me the precise grounds you have for saying
Belisarius won't win the Derby."

Prance, in reply, detailed his conversation
with the bookmaker, winding up with
"And, as you know, sir, the tip about
Belisarius for The Guineas came from the
same man."

"Yes," observed the Major, meditatively,
"I know Black; he's as shrewd and close an
observer as there is in the Bing. I'll just
watch this little game for a few days myself,
and, when I have noted who are the colt's
most persistent opponents, shall quite know

what to think of it. That'll do for the
present, Sam. You're not given to running
riot, and I need scarcely hint this is nothing
to give tongue about."

"Never fear, Major, I'm not given to talk
unless I am paid for it."

''Oh! one thing more," exclaimed Kingston,
'' if you happen to hear what it is the
opponents of the favourite are going on, let
me know."

Certainly, sir," replied Prance, as he
picked up his hat, "if I can make out anything
more you shall know it at once. Sortie
present good-bye. Major."

As Prance walked away from the Kynas-
tons' house, an angry flush came over his
face at the sight of Mr. Purzedon leisurely
lounging along on the other side of the
street. Purzedon was apparently quite unconscious
of his presence, and, after he had
got past him some little distance. Prance
turned round mechanically to glare once
more at his enemy. He was not a little

surprised to see Furzedon cross the street
and knock at the Kynastons' door.

I didn't know," he muttered, ^' that he
was thick with the Major, and, if they are
not pretty intimate, how the deuce comes it
that he is dropping in at this time of the
morning?"

Mr. Prance was not much versed in social
etiquette, but he did know that a morning
call signified either business or considerable
intimacy, and to ascertain what were the
relations between Kynaston and Purzedon
became now a problem which it behoved
him to study.

CHAPTEE. VII.

Charlie's summoned to town.

The hunting is long a thing of the past, the
sap runs riotously through the trees, which
are breaking forth in all the glorious verdure
of the month of May. Birds are singing,
buds are bursting, and grass is springing
in every direction. The song of the throstle
from the topmost bough re-echoes to chanticleer's
shrill defiance, as the sun breaks forth
in the early morning, to kiss the 
fragrant blossoms characteristic of
the merry month. Tew girls ever enjoyed
the spring-time more than Lettice Devereux
; but somehow this year the salt seemed
to have lost its savour. It struck her that

North Leach was a little dull. The Kynas-
tons had left The Pirs; Charlie was away-soldiering
; as for John, he seemed more
absorbed in the farms than usual. Lettie
did not understand it : she no longer took
the interest in the young horses that she
used to do ; how the game-fowls were
doing became a matter of indifference to
her ; and the garden had ceased to be an
attraction. She was restless and discontented
; she had as yet received no invitation
from Mrs. Connop, and Lettie had
reckoned more upon it this year than she
had ever done hitherto. Charlie, too, was
so stupid ; he wrote so seldom, and when
he did his letters were so dreadfully egotistical,
he never said anything about the
people he mixed with, nor told her anything
about his brother officers. Of course
his letters would be so much more interesting
if they contained some information
regarding his associates. As for coming to
North Leach, he only alluded to that as a

possibility of next winter ; and in the meantime
Lettice recognised that there was a
monotony and solitude about North Leach
hard to bear.

She took her solitary rides, she strove
honestly to busy herself with her accustomed
avocations ; but, in spite of all that,
there were times when she felt that the
stagnation of life at North Leach was well-nigh
insupportable. As for Gilbert Slade,
she would trouble her mind no more about
him. Mrs. Kynaston was right — if he had
cared ever so little about her he would have
made an effort to see her before this. But
Gilbert Slade had made never a sign, and
might as well have been shooting big game
in India as quartered at York for all she
heard of him. Mr. Purzedon, on the contrary,
had twice, under some rather flimsy
pretext, visited them for two or three days.
Plausible though his account had been of
how he had happened to be in their neighbourhood,
there was a ring of untruth about

it which gave Miss Devereux the idea that
Mrs. Kynaston was right, and that she herself
was the attraction that drew him into
North Lincolnshire. Lettice, moreover,
could but see that, without venturing to
proclaim himself an admirer, he paid her
considerable attention, and with no undue
vanity felt that he only wanted a little
encouragement on her part to become a
recognised pretender to her hand.

Still, Lettie had by no means got over her
prejudice against him. She was courteous,
pleasant to him, and did her best to make
his brief visits to North Leach agreeable ;
but, for all that, she did not care about him
herself. To say that she disliked him would
be too strong a phrase, but she was certainly
indifferent to him, and, bravely though she
tried to master it, was conscious of an ungrounded
prejudice against him. It was
probably the ingrained cynicism of Purses
character that jarred upon Miss Devereux.
He strove very hard to subdue it; he

was aware that that vein is rarely popular
with women ; but nature combined with
habit is not easily smothered ; and, in spite
of all his care, his bitter views of men and
things would occasionally escape his lips.
Still Ralph Purzedon thought that he was
making fair progress; and had he not clever
Mrs. Kynaston to aid him ? and did he
not hold that tremendous card of Charlie's
difficulties to launch whenever he thought
fittest ? Ealph Purzedon little thought ashe
left North Leach, in the very first days
of May, how speedily Mrs. Kynaston would
counsel an application of the screw.

But, if Charlie Devereux could find no
time to go to North Leach, he could manage
to get a week's leave for the purpose of
running up to London. And hither he had
betaken himself in obedience to the express
wish of Mrs. Kynaston. She and Charlie
corresponded pretty frequently — a correspondence
which they did not think it necessary
to mention to other people. Even at

The Pirs Kate could often have gii'en Letty
Devereux later news of her brother than she
herself possessed ; but Mrs. Kynaston never
thought fit to mention it. She was a lady
much given to philandering correspondence,
and usually had two or three what she denominated
" special friends " of the male
sex, with whom she kept up much sentimental
letter writing. No very great harm,
perhaps, in the epistles ; and yet they always
contained a certain amount of love-making,
such as were hardly befitting a married
woman to receive. A prompt, energetic
Avoman, as well as a capricious one, was
Mrs. Kynaston, accustomed to subdue men
easily, Her first feeling on discovering
Gilbert Blade's insensibility to her fascinations
had been astonishment, then came
pique, and finally she had fanned herself
into a mad passion for this dragoon, who
declined to put his neck beneath her foot.

But Mrs. Kynaston was not easily beaten
when she had set her mind upon a thing.

She Lad determined that the first thing it
behoved her to put an end to was Slade's
growing admiration for Let tie Devereux.
Secondly, to marry that young lady to
Purzedon as soon as she could compass it.
Most women would have deemed these two
things beyond their power to bring about,
but Mrs. Kynaston had implicit reliance in
her own abilities, and was wonderfully adroit
in making the most of such weapons as
came to her hand. Already she had put
into Purzedon's head the idea that Lettie
would make him an excellent wife. Already
she had implanted in Miss Devereux's breast
mistrust of Bertie Slade's intentions, that it
was the sort of conventional flirtation these
soldiers always thought proper to indulge in
with any pretty girl they came across. But
she wanted to do more than that, she wanted
to effectually sever Lettie from her lover.
It was in furtherance of these purposes that
she had urged Charlie to run up to town ;
she had so many things to say to him," she

wrote. '* She wanted to see him now he had
had a few months' military training, whether
he was improved or the reverse ; she hoped
they hadn't spoiled his seat in the riding-school
; in short, Charlie," she concluded,
'' I must see you ; I'm sure you can get a
few days' leave now, so, remember, I shall
take no excuse."

However indifferently Charlie might have
regarded Mrs. Kynaston's charms upon first
making her acquaintance he could no
longer be accused of that indifference now.
He was no doubt very much in love with as
thorough-going a flirt as there was in all
London, and he lost no time in obeying her
behest. He was in all the flush of his Two
Thousand winnings, and sanguine, as young
gentlemen of his age are wont to be, about
being equally fortunate over the Derby.
That he should present Mrs. Kynaston with
a very pretty bangle as a memento of Belisarius,
and tell her the whole story of how
he came to back that horse, and of all that

Charlie's summoned to town. 113

he hoped from his success at Epsom, one
need scarcely say. Mrs. Kynaston was
interested in his story ; she led him on till
at last she drew from him the whole story
of his difficulties ; how that he had come to
terrible grief in plunging at the Houghton
meeting at Newmarket the year before last ;
how that Purzedon in the first instance had
lent him the money ; how he felt the obligation
of being indebted to a friend so oppressive
that he had taken counsel with Major
Kynaston on the subject ; and how that the
Major had borrowed the money for him elsewhere.


And at usurious interest, no doubt,"
interposed the lady. " Dick, I know from
sad experience, is an adept at such things ;
but," she continued, with a grave shake of
her head, ''my poor Charlie, you will have
to pay for it. How is it all to end ? " And
then he told her how he looked forward to
his winnings on the Derby to discharge all
his liabilities ; and how that, when he had

VOL. II. I

wiped the slate clean, he would take very
good care not to make such a fool of himself
again.

Mrs. Kynaston made no further comment
upon his story, but lightly changed the conversation.


^ ' And so you have seen nothing of any
of your people since you left North Leach
the very end of last year ? "

Charlie shook his head.

'' No ; foolish of me, of course. I know
from your letters you have not. What I
mean is have you no news to tell me from
North Leach ? "

No," replied young Devereux ; " it is
too early to know much about the game ;
too early to know much about the crops.
Lettice says she finds it very dull, and is
looking anxiously forward to an invitation
from her aunt; but so far, I believe, it
hasn't arrived."

'• Ah ! that is not exactly what I call
news. Lettice did not tell you, for instance,
she was going to be married — did she ? "

'' Lettice married ! No. Who to ? "

My dear Charlie, brothers are always notoriously
Mind to their sisters' love affairs ;
but still, I should have thought you might
have seen how very attentive your friend
Mr. Eurzedon was to Lettice last season."

'' You forget," he replied, " that I was
only altogether a very few days in town
last year ; and, to tell you the truth, I had
an idea that there might be something of
that sort between her and Gilbert Slade."

Ah ! You think, because at Lottie's
request he assisted you to get a nomination
for a commission, he was in love with your
sister — a natural mistake, but I should doubt
Mr. Slade being in a position to marry,
even if I thought him a marrying man."

'' Well, he came all the way down to
Lincoln to see Polestar win last autumn,
and I thought perhaps that the seeing of
Lettie "

'' Oh, yes ; I know," interrupted Mrs.
Kynaston, with some little acerbity ; 'Mic
i2

sat in her pocket all day, and had hardly
a word to bestow upon any one else; but
that's only the way of your precious profession.
Still, I don't wonder that you were a
little puzzled."

'' You give me credit for noticing a great
deal more than I did upon that occasion.
Remember, that was the day I won my first
steeplechase. I had the race and Polestar
on my mind the whole afternoon ; and, beyond
that, Gilbert shook hands with me and
congratulated me on my victory. I know
no more. How he and Lettie passed their
time IVe no idea."

Then you don't know that Mr. Furze-don
has been at North Leach twice this
spring ? "

"Well, I'm not sure." rejoined Charlie,
that Lettie did not say something about it
in one of her letters ; but it made so little
impression that I had forgotten it."

"Well, I can't say positively," rejoined
Mrs. Kynaston ; " the two principals have

neither of them thought fit to make confession
to me, but that Mr. Furzedon adores
your sister I know from his own lips (a
little exaggeration this) ; and as for Lettie,
well, she knows it, and if she disapproved it
how came Mr. Purzedon to go down to North
Leach twice'"

'' I'm sure I don't know," replied Charlie,
I never dreamt of his caring about Lettice
in that way — he's not a bad fellow Furzedon,
but I don't think I quite care about him
as a brother-in-law."

Charlie Devereux's vision had been a
little enlarged since he had joined the

th Hussars ; he probably drew a more

correct estimate of his fellows than when
he was an undergraduate, and was conscious
now that his comrades would pronounce
Eurzedon not quite '' the right thing."

"Don't be foolish, Charlie," replied Mrs.
Kynaston, " your sister is doing very well
for herself. Ralph Eurzedon is a very rising
young man, much richer, I have some

reason to know, than he is usually supposed.
A shrewd man too, not a genius — they poor
things rarely get on in this life— but a
clear-headed, practical man. Ralph Eurzedon
will push his way in this world, he will
get into Parliament, and has, no doubt
about it, a future before him. Lettice, like
any prudent girl, knows which side her
bread is buttered, and is not likely to throw
on one side a good parti for poetical visions
of love or perchance strawberry-leaves."

"You know best," said young Devereux,
and I suppose Lettice is dong a good
thing for herself. Eurzedon has always been
a pal of mine, but for all that, let him be
as rich as he may, I \^ish he were not going
to marry my sister."

"You foolish boy," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
" you are confusing love and
settling in life ; it is given to few of us to
marry the man wee really care for. Oh
dear ! how little giving in marriage there
would be if that was an essential part of it."

And then Kate Kynaston plunged into one
of those charming little dissertations in
which she was such a proficient, in which
she demonstrated that it was the duty of
three-fourths of womankind to sacrifice
themselves for the sake of their families, and
that if it was their misfortune to come across
those they could have loved later on in life ;
they were less to be blamed than wept over.
What the sacrifice had been in her own case
was left most misty and undefined, but Mrs.
Kynaston always contrived to send her
admirers away with the idea that she was a
woman wrestling with a heavy burden, that
her hearer was the one man that had ever
touched her heart, and that, had they
met earlier, life would have been so very
different.

As for Charlie, he went back to York
uncomfortable about Lettice's engagement,
and with a hazy idea that he had added to
poor Mrs. Kynaston's troubles by his own
fatal fascinations, and yet a less conceited

man than Charlie Devereux probably never
trod shoe-leather.

'well, young 'un' exclaimed Gilbert
Slade, as Charlie burst into his quarters a
few minutes before the trumpet sounded for
dress — " had a good time ? Whom did you
see, and what have you been doing ? You
didn't forget to call upon my uncle Bob,
did you?"

No," rejoined Charlie, '' I called twice
on him, but I didn't see him. I was most
anxious to thank him for all he had done forme
; but the porter said he had not been at
the Thermopolium for three or four days,
and he thought that he must be out of
town."

'' Pick up any news ? " inquired Bertie,
lazily.

I did," rejoined Charlie. " I saw Mrs.
Kynaston, and heard a very strange bit of
news from her; rather a queer thing," continued
Charlie, ''to hear of your own sister
going to be married from any one but herself,

but I did. She told me that Lettice
was engaged to be married."

'what!" exclaimed Gilbert Slade, springing
to his feet. "Miss Devereux going to be
married? Nonsense, Charlie. Who to ? "

To Ealph Eurzedon, of all people in the
world," replied young Devereux.

'what, that cad!" exclaimed Bertie,

"Well, I'm d d. No, I beg your pardon,

Charlie, of course I don't mean that. I
mean I congratulate you, old fellow. I
trust Miss Devereux will be happy. Pray
forgive me that slip of the tongue, and consider
I've said all the proper things usual
under the circumstances."

Charlie said no more, but, as he walked
away to his ow n quarters to dress, felt less
reconciled than ever to this engagement of
his sister. Bertie's involuntary exclamation
had strengthened his own conviction.
Stripped of his fine feathers Purzedon was a
cad. Could Mrs. Kynaston be right, and
was Lettice really engaged to this man ?

"Ah," he muttered, 'women are so much
clearer sighted than ourselves in these
matters. It is little likely that a clever
woman like Kate" — and his face slightly
flushed as he murmured her Christian
name — "would make a mistake in such a
matter."

CHAPTER VIII.

SAM PRANCE AT HOME.

Major Kynaston had been not a little
puzzled at Sam Prance's reference to young
Devereux last year ; he had wondered then
whether Prance had the slightest idea that
there were business relations between himself
and Purzedon. They had now several
turf transactions in common, and, moreover,
Purzedon, as the young man about town,
when he had the chance, invariably brought
young gentlemen in difficulties to the Major
for advice. He would observe with a geniality
which sat ill upon him, on becoming
the confidant of such troubles, " Let mc introduce

you to Dick Kynaston, he'll pull
you through. He knows all these sort of
fellows, and can always tell you what to do,
and who to go to." And then Mr. Furzedon
would chuckle to himself at what was to
him an exquisite jest, to wit, that these
young innocents would shortly be brought
round to his pen to be shorn; and that
Kynaston was in complete ignorance that
lie, Purzedon, was in reality the shearer.

Kynaston had not seen Prance for some
months after their interview, and had pretty
well dismissed the subject from his mind ;
he thought it was impossible that Prance
could know anything more of his connection
with Purzedon than that they were to some
extent turf confederates. Still, when the
succeeding spring in London Prance once
more made his appearance at the little house
in May fair, the Major reverted to the subject.
But he soon found that the tout knew little
more than that Purzedon and himself were
acquainted ; that he had small knowledge of

the Devereux; and that his main motive
was a rabid hostility and distrust of Ealph
Purzedon. Prance had indeed no particular
object in rescuing Charlie Devereux from
Eurzedon's clutches other than the hatred he
bore the latter, and, although he considered
his patron well able to take care of himself,
yet he thought it was better to give him an
insight into Eurzedon's real character. Dick
Kynaston had taken due note of the caution,
and said to himself, '- I've had to do with
some queer customers in my time, but it is
always a great advantage to know when you
are 'sitting down to play with Ah Sin'"
This had been all Prance had intended by his
warning, and he had thought no more of the
matter until he saw Purzedon call at the
house in May fair just after he had left it.

But now all Prance's curiosity was
aroused. Two strong passions urged him
on to discover what was the connection
between the two men — his enmity to Purses
and his gratitude to Kynaston. Blunted

and seared as all his better feelings were,
he still held a dogged fidelity towards the
Major. He had always been liberal to him,
and the unfortunate man felt very grateful
to him for the assistance he had rendered in
the bitter need of last winter. Still Mr.
Prance, as he sits alone in his modest
apartment in Great Coram Street, does not
exactly see his way to arriving at what he
wants.

What can have brought these two men
together?" and as he turns this knotty point
over in his mind the man puffs vigorously
at his short clay pipe Sam Prance's domicile
was by no means luxuriously furnished.
A bed ; a washstand ; a chair, by courtesy
called easy ; and a table or two, comprised its
contents, but it was clean, and the proprietor
regarded it as princely compared to some of
the lodgings he had flitted in and out of
during the past few months. One of the
tables was littered with a few old turf
guides, a blotting-pad, pens, ink, and paper,

and at length, by way of penetrating the
mystery. Prance sat himself down, and,
taking np his pen, determined to, what he
called, " Eun off Ralph Furzedon's performances,"
as he would have gone through those
of a racehorse with a view to getting a line
through him of some other horse.

"Yes," he muttered, after scribbling fast
for ten minutes or more, " it's a very nice
sheet, it reads well, it's a pity his swell
friends can't see it. His sire, a pawnbroker;
two-year-old performances : trafficking in the
sale of unredeemed pledges ; backing horses
on the turf; making love to his friend's wife
and urging that friend to neglect an honest
occupation for gambling and horse-races ;
pretty well that for a young 'un who had
not reached his eighteenth year. Three-year-old
performances : laughing at his friend
when he was kicked out of his situation;
mocking at him and remarking it was his
owen fault when his wife ran away ; refusing
him assistance when he was in difficulties ;

gibing at him ; and, finally, knocking him
down because, in his extremity, he asked
him in pity's sake for a sovereign."

There was no doubt a basis of truth underlying
Prance's summary, but the man's morbid
antipathy to Furzedon must be allowed
for ; the colouring was more bold and vivid
than the facts warranted ; and that Prance
should attribute every evil that had befallen
him to Purzedon's malign influence must betaken
very much cum grand sails. He had
contributed a fair share himself to his own
undoing ; and the defalcations which had
cost him his situation and blasted his character
were in nowise due to any suggestion
of Ralph Purzedon. However, painting his
enemy in the darkest tints did not serve to
elucidate the problem he had sat down to
consider. That the Major was fond of a
jyame of cards he thought was likely ; that
the Major preferred winning to losing he
had no doubt ; he never knew anybody who
did not. That the Major was capable of

assisting fortune be deemed probable, and
thought none the worse of him for that. In
his own easy code of morality he regarded
cheating and all games of chance as cleverness
; and he was the best player who concealed
most cards up his sleeve without detection.
Horse-racing the same ; he saw no
harm in a robbery, provided you were in it ;
it was a rascally thing if you were not ; and,
if publicly discovered, there was always the
chance of your paying the penalties, and not
being paid the money. But then there it
was again ; clever people were not discovered,
it was the bunglers that were
found out. Now, whatever Furzedon had
done — and remember, there was no enormity
of this sort that Prance believed he had not
committed — he had never been found out.
Surely Major Kynaston could not have fallen
into the mistake that this was a young gentleman
from whom there was money to be
won. No, no ; the Major was far too 'cute
not to have found out for himself long ago

VOL. II. K

that there was nobody about better able to
take care of his money than Mr. Purzedon.
What could be the link that bound the two
men? Nothing but chance is likely to
throw light upon one phase of their connection
; but of their confederacy on the turf
it will be odd if Mr. Prance is not shortly
acquainted ; and when that comes to pass
there will be slight doubt of Sam unbosoming
himself. Of such partnership he
will feel certain that his patron must eventually
get the worst.

'' Because he is young," muttered Mr.
Prance to himself, even now in ignorance
of the facts, 'the Major thinks he is
green. He little guesses he is dealing with
the forest devil he ever met ; who makes
capital out of his youth and inexperience.
The Major is wary, up to trap, no doubt ;
thinks, I dare say, that he is not to be had
by any one alive. It's a queer world, and it
seems a farce to suppose that, sitting herein
a room like this, my experience can be

good for much ; but, for all that, I've learnt
this, that the biggest sharper in a skittle-alley
is generally the youngest and most innocent-looking
yokel. I must get to the bottom of
this ; for cleaned out by such a robber as
Turzedon I'm blessed if I see the Major."

Dick Kynaston was in no very great
danger ; he was much too wise not to have
taken a pretty accurate estimate of his new
partner by this time ; he was quite aware
that, young though he might be, Furzedon
was already considerably more rook than
pigeon ; and, whatever his original intention
might have been, lead thoroughly abandoned
any idea of a snatch at his quill-feathers.
The revelation that Furzedon was practically
Jordan and Co. would certainly have surprised
him, but would have made very little
other difference to him, save in one respect ;
it mattered little to the Major to what
money-lenders he took his young friends,
his profits in the transaction were pretty
much the same in any case. But Diclv 


aston had been born, and, however shady
his avocations might now be, still clung to
the status of, a gentleman. He was ready to
interview the money-lender in his own den,
but, let him once recognise that Purzedon was
numbered of the usurers, and the Major
would take good care that he never crossed
the threshold of Mrs. Kynaston's drawing-room
again.

Although Sam Prance was not aware, as
yet, that Purzedon had inherited and taken up
his uncle's business, it stands to reason that
his old connection with the pawnbroker
business might throw that knowledge in
his way at any moment. Should anything
prompt him to inquire, it would, of course,
be as easy as possible for him to ascertain
who was really at the present moment Jordan
and Co. His former apprenticeship had
taught him the freemasonry of the trade ;
and what that means we all know, let the
trade or profession be what it may.

Revenge upon Furzedon was interwoven

into Sam Prance's very being. It might
slumber for a time, but it never died. He
would brood, in his morbid way, over all the
misery that man had cost him till he wound
himself up to that state of mind in which
men contemplate taking the life of their
fellows. But Prance had considerable regard
for his own neck, an apprehension more
preservative of life than it usually gets
credit for. To say that he had hardly the
tigerish temperament of which murderers
are composed would be absurd. Murderers
seem composed of every possible fibre, from
the ruffian who slays his fellow from sheer
brutality down to the cringing reptile who
does away with his foe simply from terror.
No ; Mr. Prance in his solitary musings had
often muttered to himself with passionate
execrations, " How I should like to kill
him ! " But he had never seriously contemplated
anything of the kind. He would
liavc liked to drag Purzedon down to his
own heel, but of that he felt there was

small prospect. His foe was wealthy, and a
man likely to keep a strong hand on his
gear, let it be well gotten or ill. There was
little likelihood of his being able to menace
Purzedon's ruin in that wise. In one way
only did Mr. Prance see an opportunity of
gratifying his hatred, and that was in
socially exposing him. He did not quite
know as yet even how that was to be
brought about, but he was conscious that
he knew a good many shady transactions of
Eurzedon's, and he had little doubt that
eventually others would come to his knowledge
if he only kept ceaseless watch upon
his quondam friend. Not such transactions
as would place Mr. Eurzedon within reach
of the law — Prance considered him too
cunning for that; but it might be in his power
to proclaim to the world things that would
cause Ralph Purzedon's swell acquaintances
to turn their backs upon him. And Prance
had somehow divined his enemy's weakness
in this respect.

It was SO. A desire to rub shoulders with
the haul monde was the aim of Ralph Eurze-
don's life. With this object he had gone
to the University. The furtherance of this
design had a good deal to say to his going
on the turf. It was something to know a
Lord, if it was only on a racecourse ; to
pass the time-of-day to a real swell, even if it
was only at Tattersall's. Purzedon had tact,
was pachydermatous, and, though pushing,
not obtrusively so. He did not force an
acquaintance, but he wriggled into one withall
the sinuous twisting of an eel. Men
found themselves gradually committed to a
bowing recognition with Ralph Purzedon,
while at the same time, they wondered how
the deuce they came to know him. Instinct
had told Prance how to strike his enemy ;
it wanted only that fortune or his own exertions
should give the weapons to his hand.
Purzcdon too, and with some reason, flattered
himself that he was making his way slowly
but surely in the path he had marked out,
and should Mr. Prance ever compass his

projected expose he will have the satisfaction
of knowing that he could have dealt
his adversary no bitterer blow.

As for E/alph Eurzedon he was very well
contented with the way things were going
with him. Most especially was he well
pleased with his new allies the Kynastons.
The Major promised to prove profitable to
him all round. It was from him that the
inspiration came concerning Belisarius for
the Two Thousand, and Eurzedon had won a
very nice little stake over that race ; the,
as for Mrs. Kynaston, she looked like being
of much value to him from a social point of
view. She had procured him invitations in
more than one direction that he coveted,
and, cunning and suspicious as he was by
nature, he placed unlimited reliance on Mrs.
Kynaston's advice concerning this unknown
country which he was now entering. It
was at her instigation that he had determined
to woo Lettice Devereux, and he had resolved
to be guided by her advice in every
stage of the matter. It must be observed

in Kate Kynaston's defence that she knew
nothing of Furzedon's antecedents, and believed
him to be no more than a racing confederate
of her husband's. In spite of that
indescribable something about him which,
as aforesaid, was apt to produce inquiry
concerning his forbears — a point which
none of Purzedon's acquaintance had as yet
succeeded in penetrating — Mrs. Kynaston
regarded him as by no means an ineligible
match. He was young, tolerably good-looking
— those who admire the Semitic type
in man would say very — and undoubtedly
well-oflp. If Lettie Devereux could make up
her mind to fancy him she might consider
herself well married. There was, of course,
the possibility that she might do better ; but
it is safer to gather the apple within our
reach than to set our affections upon those
on the topmost bough.

And so Mrs. Kynaston went to work to
bring about a match between those two
with a clear conscience.

CHAPTER IX.

KATE KYNASTON RECONNOITRES.

'^ Well, Mr. Purzedon, when am I to congratulate
you?" exclaimed Mrs. Kynaston,
as she welcomed that gentleman to her
pretty little drawing-room. " Am I to do
so to-day? Am I to congratulate you on
having stormed the citadel, or to chide you
for your want of enterprise in still delaying
the final assault ?"

"It's all very well," replied Eurzedon ;
hut it is possible to speak prematurely in
these cases. I don't feel quite sure of my
ground with Miss Devereux."

Surely you have made her understand

that you're paying your addresses to her,"
replied Mrs. Kynaston.

'' Oh, yes ; I don't think there could be
any possible mistake about that, but I can't
say that I get much encouragement. She
is polite enough, and all that; but you know
what I mean, she don't encourage me to
open my heart."

'' Dear me, what has that got to do with
it in these days ? Don't you know that the
basis of matrimonial arrangements in these
times is — are you able and willing to open
your pockets ? Don't be faint-hearted, a girl
can't say you no till you have asked her the
question, and, if she docs, tell her you won't
take that for an answer ; a little dash and
resolution and you will be engaged to Lettie
Devereux before the season's over, and a
very sweet, pretty, lady-like wife she will
make you."

'' I wish I quite thought so," rejoined
Purzedon, '' but her manner rather gives me
warning to go no further than I have done."

Never fear to put your fortune to the
test," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston gaily, '' and
don't take thrice no for an answer. I have
got a hint to give you : Charlie Devereux is
in grievous difficulties, and trusting to his
Derby hook to pull him through them. It
never does you know. He is sure, poor boy,
to be in worse trouble than ever after the
race Now, there's an opening for you. A
few hundreds is not much object to you, if
you are in earnest about this thing. Save
your friend from the results of his folly —
you enlist him at once on your side; and as
for Lettice, she can hardly refuse to listen
to her brother's benefactor."

How did you learn all this ? " exclaimed
Purzedon, eagerly.

'^ Prom Charlie himself," replied Kate
Kynaston. " He was up in town for two or
three days last week, and told me if Belisarius
didn't get him out of the scrape there
was nothing for it but a full confession to
his father."

"He told you this? " said Sarpedon, as his
quick brain rapidly turned over the chances
of the situation.

'' Yes," he continued at length, '' that
would give me an opportunity. I am not
given to throwing my money away much,
but you are quite right. I should have a
quid ]pro quo in this case, and I would
willingly risk a few hundreds to make Miss
Devereux my wife. Is she likely to be in
town soon?"

'that's just what I can't make out, but I
mean knowing this afternoon. She is dying
to come, but that tiresome old aunt of hers
hasn't written as yet; however, I'm going
out to see her to-day, and if she has not sent
that invitation I fancy she will after I've
had a talk with her."

You won't mention my hopes to Mrs.
Connop?" said Furzedon, a little anxiously.

"Perhaps," responded Mrs. Kynaston, with
a somewhat queer expression on her face, *' I
shall see. I don't think you are quite the

nephew that old woman would be disposed
to welcome ; she is a foolish romantic old
thing, and has, I suspect, nursed the idea
of marrying Lettie to Mr. Slade."

Not quite so foolish, my dear Mrs.
Kynaston, as you think," rejoined Purzedon,
as he rose to take his departure ; "I've a
strong idea that those two were very good
friends before they parted last year."

^'That matters little," replied the lady,
coolly ; '' Mr. Slade is in no position to
marry, and any slight flirtation there might
have been between them is not a thing
worth your consideration. Good-bye, don't
forget my advice; ask Lettie Devereux to be
your wife the first time you have an opportunity,
and, should she say no, which I don't
believe she will, well, ask her again when she
has had a few weeks to think about it."

Mr. Purzedon said no more but bade his
hostess adieu, and walked leisurely back to
his own rooms, pondering deeply on the
advice that had been given him.

Interested though her motives might he,

Mrs. Kynaston could hardly he accused of

not working energetically to hiring about the

marriage she had planned. It had become

essential for her purpose that Miss Devereux

should now make her appearance in town,

and she drove off that afternoon to call upon

Mrs. Connop, and ascertain when Lettie

might be expected. She found that lady at

home and very full of grievances ; to begin

with, she was suffering from a severe cold,

and that as a rule may be pronounced quite

sufficient grievance without going into

any others that may possibly afflict us ;

moreover, she had been compelled, from

some cause or other, to have the workmen

into the house ; and what Londoner, that

has had experience cf him, does not know

what a terrible old man of the sea is the

British workman when he once gets within

your gates ?

I hope," said Mrs. Connop, " it has
never been your lot to know what having

the work-people in means. The British
workman has been often abused and deserves
every bit of it. He breaks my rest with
hideous regularity. He dawdles about all
day; shows great capacity for beer ; is profuse
in assurances that he shall have finished the
job by the end of the week. He looks at it,
I suppose thinks over it, but he never works,
and he never goes''

"Ah ! fortunately we have no experience
of that sort of thing. We haven't a house of
our own but always rent one, and Dick
would take very good care that there was no
necessity for that during our tenancy, but
I've always heard that the work-people are
very trying. Do you expect Lettie to visit
you this year ? Lie was rather looking
forward to it, I think, the last time I saw
her."

And I am always very glad to have her
with me," rejoined Mrs. Connop, '^buc it's
impossible while the house is in such a
muddle as it is now. If I had had an idea

what it was going to be I'd have slipped
down to Brighton for a month, and got out
of the way of it all. But they assured me
it would take less than a week, and I was
foolish enough to believe them. However,
they vow that it really is very nearly
finished now, and, forsworn as they have
often proved themselves, I try to believe
them this time. I shall write for Lettie as
soon as ever I am rid of them. How was
she looking when you saw her last ? "

Oh ! she was well enough when we left
The Pirs, but she finds North Leach rather
dull now the hunting is over. She gets a
glimpse of the world with you ; and, as is
only natural, she longs for the fun and gaiety
of London in preference to the monotony of
her life in the wolds ; besides, she made
rather a sensation last year — she had quite a
train of admirers."

Yes,^' rejoined Mrs. Connop, " she is
pretty, and she was no doubt popular, and

VOL. II. L

got on well at all the dances I took her to.
But Mr. Slade was the only pronounced
admirer that I saw. He, I think, was a
good deal struck with her."

** Oh ! she had others besides him, and
more profitable ones to boot."

I like Mr. Slade," replied Mrs. Connop
sharply.

"I think most people do," said Kate; ''he
is very good-looking and a most agreeable
cavalier. I was only speaking from a matrimonial
point of view; but, from what I hear
about him, Mr. Slade is in no position to
take unto him a wife at present."

Lettie has plenty of time before her to
think about that."

"No doubt," rejoined Mrs; Kynaston.
But it is a thing that naturally crosses a
girl's mind as soon as she is introduced.
Mr. Purzedon, I should say, was quite as
much struck with Lettie as Mr. Slade, and
only wanted a little encouragement to declare
himself."

'' I don't like him as well as the other'
said Mrs. Connop, sententiously.

'perhaps not," replied Kate Kynaston ;
'' but, when it comes to an eligible parti,
Mr. Purzedon is preferable. He is a man
very well off, and perfectly independent."

Ah, well ! as I said before, Lettie has no
cause to hurry herself as yet."

''No, indeed," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
rising. " I am so very glad to have been
fortunate enough tc get in. I trust your
cold will soon be better, and that you will
bring Lettie round to see me before many
days are over. Do come, if it is only to
show that you are delivered from this incubus
that besets you. Good-bye." And
as Mrs. Kynaston descended to her carriage
she murmured, " Yes, my dear friend, I want
these workmen out of the house quite as
much as you do."

Purzedon, after duly thinking over Mrs.
Kynaston's advice, and what she had told
him about Charlie's difficulties, had fully
l2

made up this mind as to the plan of his
campaign. Nobody knew the story of
Charlie's difficulties better than he did ; but
it was news to him that young Devereux
contemplated a "plunge" on Belisarius asa
means of extrication from his embarrassments.
He resolved he would boldly ask
Lettice to harry him as soon as she appeared
in London. He had a very tolerable
share of self-esteem, but he hardly expected
to be successful upon this occasion ; if possible,
he determined to avoid positive rejection,
but to withdraw his pretensions discreetly
as soon as he saw it imminent : then,
only let Belisarius be beaten for the Derby,
and he would make another attempt.
Charlie would be then deeper in the mire
than ever. And he might urge upon Miss
Devereux that it lay with her to make it
possible for him to pay his brother-in-law's
debts.

Belisarius ! He hadn't troubled his head
much as yet to think about that colt's prospects

for the Derby, but now it dawned
upon him that as far as he was concerned
the success of Belisarius would be inimical
to his interests. He must make inquiries ;
the horse was not going very well in the
market ; he wondered whether there was
anything wrong with him, he had had no
hint of such a thing himself ; perhaps Dick
Kynaston might have heard something about
it ; he mast ask him. Now it so happened
that his visit to Mrs. Kynaston had been
made the afternoon before Prance related to
the Major what Mr. Black had told him ;
and when Prance espied Purzedon knocking
at the Kynastons' door that gentleman was
calling there expressly to learn what his turf
confederate thought of the favourite's chance
at Epsom, and was speedily put in possession
of the Major's newly-acquired information.


'' Wants inquiring into a bit, you know;
but that fellow Black has the eye of a gled
for the market and the nose of a bloodhound

for a dead 'un. I should be very sorry to
back a horse of which he held this opinion."

"Then," said Purzedon, "we had better
lay against Belisarius this time, instead of
backing him. It's safer as a rule, and at
his present price there is a good bit of
money to be made. Moreover, if Black is
right, he will go back in the betting before
the race, and there will be no difficulty
about covering our money; besides, it jumps
with my own inclinations ; not that I'm
such a fool as ever to be swayed by them
in matters of business ; but it's pleasant
when they happen to run hand in hand.
I've private reasons of my own for hoping
Belisarius will not win."

Would it be indiscreet," rejoined Kynaston,
" to ask those reasons ? "

"Very, Major," said Eurzedon, laughing;
let's say I don't know how to pronounce
his confounded name, dislike his colour,
the cut of his tail — anything."

"That's settled then," rejoined Kynaston ;

'^ if my inquiries are satisfactory, we decide
to 'pepper the favourite,' to what extent
depends upon what I hear."

All right," replied the other, as he took
his leave. " There's no hurry, I think. I
shall see you again in the course of a day
or two."

E^alph Furzedon had not overlooked Prance
in the street, although he had taken no
notice of him; but he had not seen that
he came out of the Kynastons' house, nor
had he the slightest idea that the Major
even knew of such a person's existence.

Suspicious by nature, had he known this
he would have been at once on his guard.
He was thoroughly aware of Prance's enmity,
and knew, that, though the man could do
him no positive harm, yet he could tell
stories concerning him which he, Eurzedon,
would just as soon were buried in oblivion.
He regarded Prance as innocuous simply
because any disclosures he chose to make
could only be made to that scum of the

turf with which he habitually consorted. He
was utterly unaware that in his character
as tout Sam Prance was acquainted with
many men like Kynaston who held a fair
status in society.

To say that Gilbert Slade had been astonished
at the news young Devereux had
brought back from London would feebly
express his feelings. He was thunderstruck,
he had never thought of that, he barely knew
Purzedon, had seen very little of him, and
felt very indisposed to see more. He knew
that he was intimate with the Devereuxeses,
had been at Cambridge with Charlie, had
stayed at North Leach, and all that, but he
never pictured him as a possible pretender
to Lettice's hand. It might be said that he
never pictured himself in that capacity, he
had admired Miss Devereux very much, he
thought her a very nice girl, would be delighted
to meet her again, and was quite in
earnest in accepting old Tom Devereux's
invitation to North Leach.

It had been no fault of his that visit had
not been paid. His answer to Charlie, when
the latter suggested it, had been perfectly
straightforward ; he did not think the
Colonel was likely to look favourably upon
an application for leave from the new recruit
at present, unless he could advance some
very serious cause for requiring it. He did
not quite see his way into going to North
Leach by himself, and so that visit had
never been paid ; but now that he heard
Miss Devereux was engaged to be married
to somebody else he discovered that his
feelings towards her were very much stronger
than admiration.

It was true that he had never thought of
marrying her, but then he had never thought
of marrying anybody. Marriage was a thing
that had taken no definite shape in his mind
a ceremony that he might or might not go
through in years to come. Even if he had
ever contemplated it, he knew it was a thing
that would be warmly opposed hj, at all

events, one of his relations. It was only
the other day that his uncle Bob, when
joking him about Miss Devereux, had reminded
him that he would give no consent
to his marriage before he got his troop ;
and, although he was within very measurable
distance of that much-desired piece of
promotion, still there was no immediate
prospect of its taking place, and two or even
three years might elapse before he saw himself
in the Gazette. He couldn't understand it ;
well, he supposed money was everything
now-a-days; and yet he had thought Lettice
not a girl of that sort either. He was not
likely ever to be a man of more than moderate
means himself ; and, though he would probably
inherit his uncle Braddock's property
eventually, yet, in the ordinary course of
things, that was not likely to take place for
many years. Well, if the thing was done,
there was an end of it. Charlie was not
likely to be misinformed on such a subject
as this. However, they were both going upto

London at the end of the month to see
Belisarius win ; Miss Devereux would, no
doubt, be in town about that time. He
would see her then, and judge for himself ;
he would, at all events, discover whether it
was true that she was engaged to Pardon.

CHAPTEE X.

FURZEDON PROPOSES.

"No hap so hard but cometh to an end," as
the old poet sings.

The workmen are out of the house at last ;
the long-looked-for invitation has been despatched,
and Lettie Devereux responds to it,
has made her curtsey in Onslow Gardens —
little knowing how anxiously her appearance
in town was looked forward to by well-nigh
half-a-dozen people. Her arrival was
speedily notified to Mrs. Kynaston, and
through her — directly or indirectly — Furze-don,
Charlie, Slade, &c., were quickly aware
that Miss Devereux was once more residing
under the shelter of her aunt's wing. Animated

was the conversation between Mrs.
Kynaston and Purzedon when, upon receipt
of the news, the latter called in to see the
lady who was kind enough to manage the
tangled skein of his love-affair.

'rand you think I'm right, Mrs. Kingston?"
said Furzedon, at the close of the conference
of some half-hour's duration. 'you
would strike at once?"

"Decidedly," rejoined the lady. "Your
plan of action is admirable. Come to the
point without loss of time. Back out of it
if you find it going against you ; say you
will not venture to press for an answer as
yet ; that when Miss Devereux knows you
better she will be perhaps better able to
recognise your devotion. Pshaw ! Any
man out of his teens knows the whole gamut
usually run up and down on these occasions.
And, remember, you must not be
disheartened by one rebuff. Lettice is
country-bred, and the provincial mind does
not expand quite so e?Tly as that of a

London j'oung lady. Still, I think she is
rapidly awakening, and already understands
the insipidity of life at North Leach."

Thanks, very much," rejoined Eurzedon.
*' I shall do precisely what you recommend;
and, acting further on what you tell me,
return to the charge should Belisarius lose
the Derby ; pleading that the help Charlie
could accept from a brother-in-law he would
feel compelled to decline from a friend.
Wish me good luck, Mrs. Kynaston, and I
will bid you good-day."

'sall success to your's replied the lady;
*' don't be too abrupt this time ; and should
it not be successful — ah, well ! I shall see
you before it is judicious lo deliver the
second assault. It may not be necessary,
but, should it be so, I will advise you once
more. May good fortune attend you ! "

When a man's feelings are deeply interested,
the asking a woman to marry him is
doubtless, if not a mauvais quart dlieure, at
least a very nervous one ; but in Eurzedon's

case it was not so. He admired Lettice
Devereux, he liked Lettice Devereux, and
Mrs. Kynaston had persuaded him that she
would make him a good wife. He had made
up his mind to marry her. and was very resolute
to attain his end, but, as for saying
he was in love with her, that was quite
another thing ; he would feel no despair incase
of rejection ; he would still sap steadily
forward to attain his object, as he would to
attain any other object that he considered
essential to his success in life ; but, let him
once be convinced that this thing was
beyond his reach, and he was not likely to
either break his heart about it or to display
any great animosity to those who should
thwart his purpose. At the present moment
he would have sacrificed ruthlessly any one
who stood in his way ; but, the game once
given against him, he would trouble his
head no further about his successful rival.
A strong hater and vindictive man, when he
took it into his head to feel ^.iggricved, but

feeling no resentment towards those who
got the best of him on any point, the thing
once over.

Proposing with the expectation of being
refused is, to borrow a phrase from the
hunting-field, like 'riding for a fall." It
requires nerve, and it is not exhilarating ;
but in both cases there must remain a feeling
of much satisfaction when the thing is
got safely done with. Purzedon by no means
liked the business before him ; but he had
made up his mind to do this thing, and doit
he would. And in this frame of mind
he wended his way to Onslow Gardens as
soon as he heard of Miss Devereux's arrival
there. If he could make the opportunity a
he would ask the question without further
delay. The knotty question that puzzled
him on his way there was, how he was to
get Mrs. Connop out of the way ; and that
at last he was fain to confess was beyond
him. He repented now that he had not
besought his confidante's aid ; Mrs. Kingston,

lie felt sure, could have managed that
matter for him had he but asked her. Now
he could only trust to the chapter of accidents.
When he arrived at Onslow Gardens,
he found both ladies in the drawing-room
; and the thoroughly unembarrassed
manner in which Lettie welcomed him would
have convinced a far less shrewd man than
Eurzedon that, whatever her answer might
be, her feelings would have very little to do
with it. At all events, guided by Mrs.
Kynaston's revelation and her own observation,
Mrs. Connop came to the conclusion
thatPurzedon had no chance; "and,''mused
the old lady, " if he is fool enough to think
so, the sooner that bit of nonsense is
knocked out of his head the better' So,
after a quarter-of-an-hour's desultory conversation,
she rose, and, under some frivolous
pretext about finishing a letter, left the
room, and gave Ealph Eurzedon the opportunity
he desired.

He had one point in his favour, and that

VOL. II. M

was, that he was oppressed by no nervousness.
He had got his chance, and determined
to come to the point as quickly as
possible.

I have been most anxious to see you,
Miss Devereux," he commenced.

'^ Very good of you to say so," replied
Lettie. " You can't have been more anxious
to see me than I have been to s(;e London."

I have got something to ask of you— a
great favour to beg of you."

Stop, Mr. Turzedon," interrupted the
girl. " Remember, it is unwise to ask
favours, unless you've good grounds for supposing
they will be granted."

'' I have very fair grounds for supposing
that my request will be listened to, at all
events. No man can lay claim to more. I
am a great friend of your brother's ; well
known to all your people; well-to-do. I
might go further, and say wealthy."

It is quite unnecessary, Mr. Eurzedon,
to go through a catalogue of your social

advantages," replied Lettie, with just a
tinge of bitterness. She made no pretext
of not understanding what her companion
was driving at, but was a little nettled that
he so persistently ignored the hint that she
had given him. *' To a friend of Charlie's,"
she continued, " I would grant any request
that I had given him reasonable grounds
for supposing I would say ' Yes ' to."

It is difficult for a man to interpret that
phrase. We are not as quick as you to read
what are reasonable grounds. Some of
your sex — and they are those best worth
winning — will give a man scant encouragement
until he has put such request informal
words. It is natural. A sensitive
girl is afraid of committing herself before a
man has spoken."

But if a girl has not only given the
man no encouragement to speak, but has
done her best to warn him that he is about
to ask a foolish question — what then ? "

He was clever of fence and fought his 
2

hill battle both doggedly and with tact. ''I
think," he replied, gravely, " it should deserve
better than to be called a foolish
question. When a man lays his life and
fortune at a woman's feet he is paying her
the greatest compliment that lies within
his power, at all events."

I beg your pardon, Mr. Purzedon," rejoined
Lettie, quickly. '' I don't pretend to
misunderstand you, but you must know
this thing cannot be. I welcomed you as
my brother's friend ; I have given you no
cause to suppose that I had any further
feeling towards you. Let us remain friends,
and forget that this conversation has ever
talcen place."

I shall never forget it," he replied,
brusquely; 'rand I refuse to take this for
your final answer. I can wait, and trust to
time and my devotion to plead for me ; but
as long as no one else has won your hand I
shall ever be a pretender to it. I am answered
for the present, and am not likely

to intrude the subject upon you again for
some time."

I thank you for the compliment you
have paid me," replied Lettie, with some
little stateliness, and rising, " but, believe
me, my answer is irrevocable."

Ralph Purzedon took the hint and his hat.
You will make my adieux to Mrs. ,"
he said, with a low bow ; '' and you
won't object to say good-bye;" and as he
spoke he extended his hand. Their palms
crossed for a moment, and then Ralph
Purzedon descended into the street, and
began to reflect on the result of the battle.

That's the end of the first round," he
muttered, " to use the language of the prize-ring.
Well ! I expected to get the worst of
it, and I did ; but I can hardly be said to
have been badly beaten. No ; I don't think
I threw a chance away. I am now a declared
pretender to her hand. A rejected one it is
true. She can plead no ignorance of the
state of the case for the future. Moreover,

I have had resort to no subterfuges, but the
very venial one of saying that she will hear
no more of my request for some time.
Should Belisarius be beaten at Epsom I
shall most certainly have to urge the same
request again, with the additional argument
that a wealthy brother-in-law would represent
the good genii that would assist Master
Charlie out of his scrape. I only trust that
he may still further complicate matters at
Epsom. I'm not given to throwing money
away, but I should not grudge a good round
sum if it brought me Miss Devereux's hand."
It is characteristic of the contradictions
of our nature that Ralph Eurzedon had never
felt such admiration for Lettice as in the
moment of his rejection. He was struck
with her spirit, and at the same time the
womanly way in which she strove to soften
her refusal. He had wanted her for his
wife ; that was nothing. He thought she
would further his ambition once placed in
that position ; but now, for the first time,

the feeling of love was aroused within his
breast, and he resolved that he would not
resign his pretension to Lettie's hand as
long as, by fair means or foul, he saw the
slightest chance of winning it ; and Purses
was a man likely to put a very liberal
construction on the old adage, '^ All's fair
Id love or war."

Mrs. Connop waited until she heard the
front door close, and then at once descended
to the drawing-room. She was not a little
anxious to hear the result of the interview,
and, not being given to beating about the
bush, went straight to the point at once.

Well, Lettie," she exclaimed, "what did
you say to him ? Pooh ! child, there is no
need to make any mystery about it. I know
very well that Mr. Eurzedon came down here
to-day to ask you to marry him, and I went
out of the room to give him a chance of
doing so "

Surely, aunt, you don't think that I
ought to have said "

'' Ah ! you've said ' No ' then. I thought
you would. But, as I was told he was determined
to ask the question, I thought the
sooner it was over the hotter. Quite right,
my dear. I like the other one best, ever so
much."

"I don't understand you," rejoined Lettie,
a little stiffly.

'^ Oh ! yes, you do, and agree with me,
also," retorted Mrs. Connop, laughing.
However, in the meantime, run up-stairs,
and get your bonnet on ; you will only have
just time for a cup of tea before the carriage
comes round''

Miss Devereux thought it wisest to close
the discussion. She did not want to explain
that Gilbert Slade had made no sign since
last November, and that, though he had
certainly given her cause to suppose he
cared a good deal about her, he had not
quite gone the length that justified a girl
in calling him her lover. It was, indeed,
rather a soT-e subject with Miss Devereux

at present, and any coupling of her name
with Gilbert Slade she was sure to resent
sharply.

Up in the North, meanwhile, expectation
ran high. All Yorkshire was agog to seethe
big race of the South once more carried
off by a north-country horse. " The land of
ham " was on Belisarius to a man, and at the
York Club the latest bulletin concerning
Bill Smith's crack was eagerly promulgated
and discussed. Some of the old hands, who
had witnessed Bill Smith's career from his
first race as a stable-boy to the triumphs of
his zenith, and also been present at the
mistakes of his later days, shook their heads
and said, '' Yes, the horse is doing splendidly
no doubt — hoi about the man? You young
gentlemen who back Belisarius will do well
to remember that the jockey is more difficult
to bring fit to the post than the horse."

To which the partisans of Belisarius rejoined,
" Nonsense, we know Bill Smith's
weakness, of course, but he's not a fool. He

can take himself by the head when it is
worth his while. He was all ris^ht at Newmarket,
and you'll see he will he all right
at Epsom."

Now, though this doubt was in the mouths
of a good many people in his own country,
yet the way he had ridden his horse in the
Two Thousand had generally wiped out all
misgivings concerning Bill Smith's sobriety
in the South. It was believed that he had
turned over a new leaf, and that the discovering
himself to be the owner of such a
flyer as Belisarius had worked a complete
reformation in his character — at least for the
present. This more sanguine view of the
case was undoubtedly prevalent among the
turf circles in the metropolis, though shrewd
observers, like Mr. Black, noted that there
was a small knot of speculators who seemed
unremitting in their hostility to Belisarius.
Clever men too, and by no means given to
bet foolishly; and, now that Dick Kynaston's
attention had been called to it, he was

speedily convinced of the truth of what
Prance had told him. Very cautious and
wary were these men, not to be beguiled
into laying a longer price, but always prepared
to show their disbelief in the Two
Thousand winner whenever anybody offered
to take half a point less than the odds.
What they were going on the Major did not
know, and that was a riddle he was very
anxious to arrive at.

Curiously, the first hint of the danger
that threatened Belisarius came to Kynaston
from his wife. " I got a letter from Charlie
Devereux this morning," she remarked, as
the Major looked into the drawing-room fora
moment, previous to marching off to lunch
at his club, " and he says that some of the
old racing men at York are rather incredulous
about Bill Smith's riding a Derby
winner once more. They say the horse is
all right, but that the man cannot be trusted
to keep from drinking ; rather a bore should
they prove right, for, as you know, I have

backed him what for me is pretty stiffly ;
however, I don't suppose these old fossils
know much about it. I am very sorry for
Charlie," continued Mrs. Kynaston, " for as
we know, Dick, when it comes to turf
matters, the ' old fossils ' are apt to know a
good deal more than young people who are
just beginning to study them. Does this
jockey, Smith, drink so ? "

Yes," rejoined the Major, " I begin to
understand it now. That's why those fellows
are so keen to lay against Belisarius. Bill
Smith is one of the finest horsemen out, but
he can't now-a-days be depended upon to
keep sober," and with these words the Major
left the room.

Chapter XI.

NEWS From BELLATON WOLD.

May crept on ; it wanted just one fortnight
to the Derby. The mails from the North
conveyed a letter that morning of much
interest to most of the characters in this
narrative. It was addressed to Sir Ronald
Eadcliffe, Bart., and ran as follows : —
Dear Eadcliffe,

'' There is rarely smoke without fire, and
the rumours that reached us from the North
were by no means unfounded, although not
so bad as reported. The horse never was
better; but Bill, undoubtedly, has not altogether
stopped celebrating the Two Thousand
victory. It was high time somebody

came to look after him ; and, as you know,
he's not very tractable to deal with. Still,
he will stand more from either you or me
than any one else. I've got him well in hand
now, and, though he is a good bit off a teetotaller,
yet he will do no harm if I can only
keep him where he is. I shall stay here for
another week ; and then, I am sorry to say,
I am compelled to come back to London.
Could you take my place here for the last few
days ? If we can only bring both to the post,
all will be right; they'll take a deal of beating
on Epsom Downs. Belisarius will strip a
few pounds better horse than he did at Newmarket
: and I like him better every time
I see him gallop. If you possibly can come,
do. It is a great coup to land, and we ought
to throw no chance away in order to bring
it about; and, though I've got Bill pretty
straight at present, I don't like leaving
him alone. However, if you can come, I'm
sure you will.

Yours always,

** Norman Slade."

Sir Donald knit bis brows when be received
this letter. He saw clearly that, asa
matter of common precaution, it beloved
him to relieve Norman Slade at bis post ;
but what was be to do ? He bad just been
summoned to what promised to be the deathbed
of an aunt from whom be bad considerable
expectations ; a whimsical old woman,
wbo indulged in periodical visitations of this
nature; upon wbicb occasions sbe was in
the habit of summoning all ber nearest relatives
to the ceremony, — "a disappointing
old woman," as ber graceless nephew called
ber, *' wbo was always going, but never
gone." " If," argued Sir Eonald, still knitting
bis brows over Slade's letter, '^sbe did
make a die of it this time, I dare say it would
be all right ; but if, after ber manner, becomes
round, sbe would cut me out of ber
will for what sbe would term my heartless
ingratitude and want of affection for ber.
Hang it all ! after humouring ber tantrums
all these years, it isn't whist to chance

offending lier now ; it is like paying the premium
on a life insurance and letting it drop
just as it promised to recoup one. Hang me
if I know what to do. I stand to win a good
stake on either event. In the case of Belisarius
I know exactly how much ; in the
case of my venerated aunt, I don't exactly.
Which shall it be ? Which is most risky :
the will of a capricious old woman, or the
success of a racer ridden by a jockey whose
sobriety cannot be relied on ? I've long
odds in both cases ; and, by Jove, I ought
to have ! for it would be hard to say which
is the greatest toss-up. I am hard up
enough, heaven knows ; and it is a case of
which looks most lucrative, watching over
the infirmities of my elderly relative, or
watching over that peculiar weakness of Bill
Smith's. It's a nuisance, a great nuisance ;
but I can't be in both places, and I think
the Honourable Miss Hothouse has it : and
I must trust to Bill Smith's eye to his own
interest to keep him straight till all is over.

Norman won't like it, nor do I ; but it
can't be helped, and I must write and tell
him so."

Norman Slade was much disappointed at
Sir Ronald's answer to his note. Hs stayed
his appointed time, and saw Belisarius with
the veteran jockey in the saddle do a rattling
good gallop on the very morning of
his departure. "It should come off, Bill,"
he exclaimed, as he said good-bye, "only
take as much care of yourself as you do of
the colt, and I think vou'U beat 'em all at
Epsom."

The opponents of the favourite were apparently
well informed. Whether the knowledge
that Norman Slade had left Belton
Moor, and that Bill Smith was left there by
himself, influenced their calculations, it is
impossible to say, but certain it is that the
last few days before the race the horse
became a slightly worse favourite in the
market than he had been. It was in vain
that the British public made him their

VOL. II. N

champion, and put down their money. The
ranks of the opposition daily gathered
strength, and that most ominous sign of
all to a veteran turf-goer presented itself —
to wit, that the more money Belisarius
was backed for the worse favourite he
became. Norman Slade noted this uneasily,
and Sir Ronald, still dancing attendance
upon his revered aunt, was equally
conscious of the unpleasant phenomenon,
but he could not get away, and Miss Shot-house
was displaying her accustomed vacillation
on the subject of her departure.
She showed all the procrastination of
Charles II. without his politeness ; and, as
Sir Ronald said at the expiration of the
second day, ^' the whole thing was a fraud,"
and that the Honourable Miss Hothouse
would probably repeat this comedy a good
half-dozen times before making her final
bow to the public.

It was not till the Saturday before Epsom
that the old lady would admit that the

crisis was over, and that there was a fair
expectation of her recovery. Sir Donald
waited no longer. He took an affectionate
leave of his aunt, expressed the warmest
satisfaction that she was still spared to
them, and, with no little irritation simmering
in his breast, took his way back to
town. One of the first persons he sought
on his arrival was Norman Slade.

Very unlucky you couldn't go," observed
that gentleman ; "it would have
been safer ; my bulletins from Belton are
excellent, that is to say, the horse is all
right; but of course my information about
the man is more hazy. Old Eill has been
out every morning himself, I hear, and that's
something ; and of course there's no one
up there whom I could trust to furnish me
with the exact state of the case. There is
nothing to make one suspect there is anything
wrong except this disposition to lay
against the colt.

Well, Belton is a pretty close borough.
N 2

Old Bill is not given to stand any prying
into the secrets of his training-ground. The
chances are these people don't know anything
certain, but are speculating on his past
unsteadiness. I'll tell you what though, old
man, there'll be no harm in having a second
string."

"By gad you re right," replied Slade, 'i'll
see about it at once, and engage the best

available jockey, in case Bill is well

too unwell to ride."

Rather dull of us not to think of it
before," replied the Baronet, "it will be
difficult to pick out a good man now, all the
best are engaged. A good jockey is always
a great point, but over the Derby course it
is an essential. That race has been oftener
won by riding than any other in England."

Quite right ! we must do the best we
can ; and if Bill is only himself I'd ask no
better jockey; but I'll lose no time in seeing
about somebody to take his place."

It may be perhaps because it is the

greatest race in England, because it is the
greatest race in the world, that whenever the
finish of the Derby is a very close thing,
there is invariably much discussion as to
whether with another jockey the second
horse ought not to have been first. In '52
it was said that Frank Butler, the victor,
could have won upon any one of the first
four. In ^66, when Lord Lyon defeated
Savernako by a head, dissatisfaction was expressed
by the supporters of the latter at
his rider's performance. They change the
jockey at Doncaster, and the Epsom form
was confirmed to an eyelash. Veteran turfites
still wrangle in club smoking-rooms as to
whether Macaroni did beat Lord Chidden,
and whether Pero Gomez or Pretender really
won the Derby. These are things to which we
can only appeal to the judge's verdict. But
there is probably no race more calculated to
demand all the resources of a fine horseman
nerve, head, judgment of pace, &c. — than
the great national contest on Epsom Downs.

As the day drew near Charlie became
feverishly anxious on the subject ; he
listened eagerly for every rumour he could
hear concerning it ; and, as may be supposed,
in the sporting neighbourhood in
which he was quartered '' the shaves " were
numerous. Fresh horses cropped np in
the betting who were reported to have
won trials, that, if true, must have placed
the race at their mercy.

Charlie was very anxious that Gilbert
should write to his uncle, and once more inquire
what he thought of Belisarius's chance ;
but the other was decided in his rejoinder.

You don't know my uncle, or you would
never suggest such a thing. If I began to
bother him about racing, he not only would
never tell me anything again, but fight very
shy of me to boot. No, when we get up to
London 111 just ask him then, and have no
doubt that he'll tell me what he knows. I
vote we are off Saturday, and make a good
long week of it''

"All right!" replied young Devereux,
I'm good to start whenever you give the
word." And accordingly the morning of
that day the pair took their places in the
express for town, Charlie almost smothered
in the sporting papers that he had bought
with which to beguile the way.

The vaticinations of the various writers
on the coming race afforded him considerable
comfort, as most of the prophets predicted
the success of Belisarius — and with
Charlie the victory of that colt meant extrication
from a very unpleasant scrape. As
for Bertie Slade, he was very silent ; except
for his companion's sake, he felt rather
indifferent as to the result of the Derby.
His mind was absorbed in the one question.
Could this thing be true ? Was Lettice
Devereux really engaged to that fellow Pursdon
? He would know for certain this
week — aye, know from her own lips. And
yet, when he thought of that, it did not
seem quite so easy as he had first pictured

it. He did not feel that he could ask her
the question unless he could plead his own
love, and the hope that he had not told his
own tale too late. To offer her formal congratulations,
and so get at the truth that
way, would, he felt, be a mockery — almost
an insult. Was it likely that either Mrs.
Kynaston or Charlie would be misinformed
about a thing like this ? No ; he had been
a fool ; he might have known that a girl like
Lettice Devereux would not be left to wait
long for the gathering. He had flattered
himself that he had a chance, and thought
he had stood high in her good graces;
but then he had not declared himself. Still,
to be cut out by a fellow like Furzedon —
a brute whose only redeeming point was,
apparently, that he had money. He knew
next to nothing of Eurzedon, and had no
knowledge whatever of the many objectionable
points connected with that gentleman's
career ; but a rejected suitor — and, if this
story of Charlie's was true, he might regard

himself in that light — rarely forms a just
estimate of his successful rival.

How it would have stirred Bertie Slade's
pulses could lie but have known that his
rival was deeply interested in this race, that
he was travelling all the way from York to
see ; interested, but in just the contrary
way. Chiefly as a means of wringing a reluctant
consent from Miss Devereux, Purses
was awaiting with no little impatience
the defeat of Belisarius. He was prepared
to go, indeed, no little length to compass it,
should he only see his way without much
risk of detection. He turned the thing over
again and again in his mind, and at last
thought he saw his way to assist at that conclusion.
To attempt to l)ribe Bill Smith
would be useless, the horse was his own ;
and, even supposing he could be bought, it
would probably require a large sum to make
it better worth his while to lose than to win.
Then, too. Bill Smith was a notoriously
queer-tempered man, difficult to approach

on so delicate a subject, and quite likely to
denounce him at once to the stewards of the
meeting, an open scandal which Purzedon
shuddered to think of. But he might begot
at through his besetting weakness, and
the emissaries he employed would leave no
tangible evidence behind them. Genial souls
only too pleased to fill the wine-cup, and
hobnob with the famous jockey, who could
suspect them of ulterior motives ?

Pecuniarily also Furzedon desired the
favourite's defeat. Dick Kynaston had
wormed out that the shrewd speculators
who so persistently opposed Belisarius were
acting upon the belief that when it came to
the point Bill Smith would be in no
condition to ride, and that at the eleventh
hour the securing of even a decent jockey
would be impossible. Ralph Purzedon and
the Major, acting on this inspiration, had
followed suit, and now stood numbered
amongst the pronounced opponents of Belisarius
; in fact, that colt's victory would

cost them both a considerable sum of
money. Eurzedon had very little doubt
that the two or three bookmakers who so
persistently laid against the horse would
endeavour to assist their own forecast of
Bill Smith's probable state on the Wednesday
morning. Still he thought that it would
be quite as well if he also did what little
he could to contribute to the defeat of Belisarius.
There was no necessity for taking
the Major into his confidence; on the contrary,
it was far better he should know
nothing whatever about it. Furzedon knew
very well where to lay his hand amongst
his myrmidons on a couple of the sort he
wanted ; rollicking men, who would go down,
flatter the great northern jockey to the very
top of his bent, swear that there never was
such a horseman as he, and never such a
colt as Belisarius; that they had got their
very shirts on him. " And now, Mr. Smith,
we'll just have a glass to drink luck on
Wednesday." If the colt's other enemies

were only taking like steps to ensure his
defeat, then, thought Purzedon, with a grim
smile, "wherever Bill Smith may finish it
won't be first, unless the devil takes care of
his own. And then. Miss Lettie, we'll see
whether you're too proud to give me the
right to help your brother out of his
scrape."

CHAPTER XII.

DIRE MISGIVINGS.

The Derby week has come at last. The
leading competitors for the great race have
all got safely to Epsom, and the papers
teem with reports of the morning gallops,
and comment freely on how the horses do
their respective work. All are unanimous
in praising the favourite, pronounced to
have improved much since he won the Two
Thousand, and reported as having galloped
the whole course in rare style on the Monday
morning. Tattersall's is in a great
bustle that day Not only was there all the
business of comparing to be got through ;
and this checking off of their various bets

takes some little time with extensive speculators
; but towards the finish there was
some rather smart wagering on the coming
event. There was plenty of money both for
and against Belisarius ; but, as Mr. Black
had said, it did not seem to matter how
much money the public heaped upon the colt
there was still always plenty to be laid
against him. The stable commission had been
long ago exhausted — it was a small stable.
Mr. William Smith was a poor man, and
he and his friends had very soon succeeded in
getting all the money they could afford on
at highly remunerative prices. The greater
part of their commission had been negotiated
before the horse had made his successful
debut at "Newmarket ; and, though
they had not hesitated — notably Sir Ronald —
to put down a considerable portion of their
winnings in support of the colt's Epsom
chance, yet that soon came to an end, and
it was the public now who were backing
Belisarius.

Outside the subscription-room, walking
up and down in earnest conference, were
Eurzedon and Dick Kynaston.

^' It's true, Major. I can thoroughly
depend upon my man. Those fellows who
got the hint were quite right to never leave
Belisarius, and we were quite right to follow
their lead. Old Bill Smith is located at the
E/cd Lion ' at Epsom, and well upon the
drink. If the secret leaks out, the horse
will be at double his present price before
the flag drops."

*they can't get anybody else to ride,"
rejoined the Major, " at this time of day.
And, if Eill Smith gets up in that state, it
will be all the odds against his being in the
first three, much less winning. I suppose
there is not much chance of his pulling
himself together between this and then ? "

'' No," replied Eurzedon, glancing sharply
around, to be sure that there was nobody
within earshot. "My informant says that
he is surrounded by a little knot who

wouldn't give him the chance, even if he
were so minded."

''I can't think what his friends are about,"
replied Kynaston, moodily. " Norman Slade
and Radcliffe are his two chief supporters,
and there are no two keener hands on the
turf. They know Bill Smith better than
any of us, and Radcliffe we know, at all
events, is standing to win a lot of money
over it. Are you sure they have not a
second string?"

Such a thing has never even been hinted
at," replied Pursdon ; '' besides, my good
fellow, the bill of the play is out now. We
know what every one rides — what all the
leading jockeys are booked for. Of course,
there is always the stable-boy ; but we know
what a muddle he usually makes of it."

I'll tell you what it is, Furzedon," said
the Major. " I've seen some queer dodges
take place at the last moment. There is
such a thing, remember, as a friendly resignation
of claim upon a jockey's services. I

can't help thinking men like Slade and Radcliffe
would be prepared for such a probable
contingency as Bill Smith's inebriety. If
the horse looks well, and I see anybody else
up on it, I shall take back the money I have
laid against him at the last moment."

That you must do as you like about,"
replied his companion, " but I've done here.
Are you going westwards?"

Not yet," replied Kynaston.

Then for the present adieu," said Eurze-
don ; and as he strolled homewards through
the park he wondered whether there was a
chance of such a trap as the Major hinted
at having been set for the opponents of
Belisarius.

Trap it could not be called. If Sir Eonald
Radcliffe or Slade had made some such
arrangement with another jockey, they were
only doing their best for owner, trainer,
horse, and the public.

Charlie Devereux, incited by a lot of
youthful acquaintance at Limmer's, to which

VOL. II. O

hostelry Bertie and himself had betaken,
themselves on their arrival in the metropolis,
had hacked the favourite for a good
deal more money. He had been further
moved to do this hy Norman Slade's laconic
reply to Bertie's inquiry as to how Belisarius
was. " Never was better " had been his
uncle's rejoinder ; but he was not disposed to
be diffuse on the subject, and Bertie knew
him too well to ask further questions.

Charlie Devereux had persuaded himself
that he might as well be hung for a sheep
as a lamb, and therefore that it would be
his best policy to thoroughly clear himself ;
he would go for the gloves ; in fact, he ran
through all the gamut of such phrases applicable
to the situation. If it came off it
would be all right ; if it did not, well then
the smash had come; and if his friends
would not rescue him there must be an end
of his soldiering, and he would have to strike
out some other path in life. He had said
nothing of all this to Bertie, and determined

that lie should be left in ignorance, at all
events, until the race was over ; and Bertie,
immersed in his own worries, took little
heed of the doings of his mercurial brother-officer.


The Derby morning broke clear and
bright. The sun was barely well above the
horizon when the vast horde of pleasure-seekers
began to pour out of London on
their way to the Downs. There were those
who came to gamble, those who came for an
outing; those who came because it was the
proper thing to do ; those who came because
other people were going ; those who came
because they always did ; and that vast crowd
who yearly travelled down on the chance
of picking up a little money during the
week in ways of which even they themselves
had as yet but hazy conception. Could the
racing public have looked that morning,
about breakfast-time, into the private 
of the '*EedLion" at Epsom they
would have been sore bewildered. Seated
o -1

at the table whereon still stood the debris of
breakfast was Sir Eonald RadclifFe ; whilst
pacing restlessly np and down the room was
Norman Slade, with that glint in his eyes
and half snarl about his mouth which those
who knew him well were aware presaged
bitter humour on his part.

Yes," he said, in evident pursuance of
their conversation, ''he is just about in his
very worst humour this morning. He can
be, as you know, as obstinate as a pig ; and
there is a certain stage he arrives at when
he is in this way when he is neither to drive
nor to lead, and that is just where Bill has
got to this morning. He is sulky drunk,
and, whatever we may want him to do, that
above all others is the thing he will set his
face against."

'what sort of state is he in at present ? "
inquired the Baronet. " I mean, could he
ride now ? "

"Yes," rejoined Slade, "that is the provoking
thing about it. He could ; but you

don't suppose he'll stay where he is. Just
insinuate to him that he had letter touch
nothing till the race is over, and he'd ring
for more drink that minute. Leave him to
himself "

•''And he'll drink all the same," chimed
in the Baronet. " Yes ; I know my friend
Bill, and when he is fairly off on the ooze
it would take chain-cables to hold him.
Have you ventured to suggest that Tom
Shaddock should ride in his place ? "

Not yet ; I have succeeded in managing
the whole thing capitally. Abrahamss, who
owns Hobbyhorse, is quite prepared to let
us have Shaddock, providing we give him a
thousand if Belisarius wins ; and Shaddock
will be quite content to, in like manner,
stand five hundred to nothing*"

Shaddock is as good as most of them,"
replied the Baronet. '' Can't Bill be brought
to accede to that arrangement ? "

'' We shall have to try," said Slade, *but
in his present temper I am afraid not ; besides,

you know what he is. He looks upon
himself as seven pounds better than any one
else. They are all given to it ; but there
never was a jockey more conceited about his
own riding than Bill Smith."

Then," said Sir Ronald, " there is only
one thing to be done; we shall have to tie him
up to the bedpost, and lock him in his room."

Norman Slade gave vent to a grim laugh ashe
replied, '' I wish we could ; and, by Jove,
we would, if he was only trainer and jockey;
but, unfortunately, you see, he owns the
horse, and there's no gainsaying that he hasa
right to do what he likes with his own.
He's just in that beastly temper in which he
would say that he only kept racers for the
sport of the thing; and that if he couldn't
ride them himself he didn't care to start
them. If his colt got beat there'd be a
pretty row. He and all the public with him
would say that it was all our fault— that if
Bill himself had been up he would have
won easily."

"You're right," said Sir Ronald, moodily;
'' I suppose there would be a royal row ;
and yet, hang it, I've half a mind to chance
it — it's not often one has the chance of
such a coup as this."

"Yes," retorted Slade, "and I'm sorry
for the fool himself ; he stands to win a rare
nice stake, and he wants it; he is never
likely to get much more riding. He is not
likely, in his small way, to pick up such
another colt as Belisarius. To fool away
this chance will he the throwing away, probably,
of his last."

Well, we've got the morning before us,"
said Sir Ronald, "and I can only hope that
he will listen to reason. In the meantime,
I shall stroll into the town and see what's
doing. It was an awful bit of bad luck
that I couldn't take your place at Belton
Moor."

Left to himself, Norman Slade pondered
deeply over the situation. He could see noway
out of it. He knew his man far too

well to suppose Bill Smith's sobriety would
improve as the day wore on, nor was there
the slightest chance of his getting quite hors
de combat. He never did that ; then again,
the combined vanity and obstinacy of the
jockey made it most improbable that he
would ever consent to Tom Shaddock's
taking his place. Norman had considered
himself extremely fortunate in having concluded
that negotiation successfully. Shaddock
was a fine horseman, and quite capable
of doing the colt every justice ; but in his
exultation he had quite overlooked the
vanity of human nature and the infirmity
of human temper. The jockey had not as
yet left his room, and there was no use as
yet, as Slade well knew, in arguing further
with him. He strolled out into the town,
and again saw Shaddock and Shaddock's
employer. Both professed themselves perfectly
willing to stand to the agreement to
the very last available moment.

"Let me know half-an-hour before the

numbers go up, and it will be all right, sir.
My horse won't start, and Tom here very
much at your service."

Ey this time the secret of Bill Smith's
indiscretions had begun to leak out amongst
those sporting men who had elected Epsom
for their headquarters. That the delinquent
was a small, spare, wiry man, as they well
knew, made it probable that he would be
able to ride the weight. But a jockey who
got up to ride in a big race rather the worse
for drink was no more to be relied on than
in any other calling in life ; and there was
a manifest tendency to bet against Belisarius
in consequence. Slade strolled up to
the course ; and, though the day was still
young, the early contingent from London
was already sprinkled about the betting-lawn.
A very enjoyable time this : you
have a chance of seeing old friends, of hearing
the latest movements in the betting-market.
Later on the crowd thickens, and
the coming across any one becomes a mere

toss-up. If it is anybody you particularly
want to see the chances against that meeting
taking place seem incalculably multiplied.
In that stroll Norman encountered
his nephew ; and to Bertie's inquiry as to
whether he fancied Belisarius, replied curtly,
'' No ; the horse is all right, but the man's
all wrong. Hedge, my boy, especially if
you stand to lose anything to make you feel
uncomfortable ; " and then Norman jumped
into his fly and drove back again to Epsom,
to look after the recreant jockey.

Bill Smith was having a nondescript meal,
which consisted of a sandwich and a tankard
of bitter beer, and was surrounded by three
or four blatant flatterers, who had apparently
breakfasted more largely in similar
fashion.

'that's what I say, Mr. Smith," exclaimed
one of these worthies, " when you
come across a good horse, with a good man
on the top of him, back him. That's where
it is, I say; here's the best colt in England,

and the best man in England a-going' to ride
him ; it's good enough to go your shirt on,
that's what it is ; and I've gone it."

It was possible that he had ; at all events
there was not much appearance of his having
it on.

Norman Slade pushed his way through
the raffish crew, and clutching the jockey
by the arm, exclaimed sternly, '' Come here.
Bill, no nonsense, I want to speak to you. '
And without more ado he led Smith into
his own bedroom. '* Now," he continued,
'you've just thrown the Derby away. Sir
Eonald and I, as well as yourself, have
backed Belisarius to win us a hat full of
money. The colt is fit to ran for a kingdom,
and you — do you call yourself fit to ride
him ?"

'eyes, I do, Mr. Slade," replied Bill
Smith, doggedly ; " it's all very well, living
on tea and toast, and going long walks
muffled up in flannels when you're a fleshy
man — I ain't. Don't you be afraid. I'll

weigh out all right — don't you be afraid I'm
over weight."

"I'm not a bit afraid of that' said Norman
sharply, '' what I fear is, that you
won't know where the winning-post is.
You've been drinking for the last three
days, and you've got the ' sun in your eyes '
this morning."

Don't talk nonsense, Mr. Slade," rejoined
the jockey. " I'm just as fit to ride
as I ever was in my life."

"Well, never mind that," replied Slade,
Sir Ronald and I don't think you quite
your old self. We want you to hand your
mount over to "

What not ride my own horse," interrupted
Bill. " It's like your d d cheek ;

and who, pray, are you proposing to put up
in my place ? "

Well," rejoined Slade, " I've been lucky
enough to secure Tom Shaddock."

"What, Shaddock ride alongside me,"
cried the now thoroughly exasperated jockey;

'' why, I could give him seven pound anywhere,
and I should think about ten here.
No, Mr. Slade, you and your Haddocks

may go to ," and he named a place

not usually mentioned in polite circles, and
strolled angrily out of the room.

That's the upsetting of the cockhoat,
our last chance," muttered Slade. '* I have
only made things a bit worse. I know his
beastly braggadocio temper ; he'll think it
incumbent on him to take two or three
strong drinks between this and the saddling-bell,
and, unless we can persuade him when
he has got well round Tattenham Corner to
come right away, he's certain to make a
muddle of it at the finish. Hard luck ! "
concluded Norman, " it's rarely men have
a chance to stand to win so much money
as we do this time, and if that fool could
only have kept sober until it was over I
verily believe it would have been landed."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GREAT EPSOM RACE.

Jumping once more into his fly Slade
ordered the man to drive at once to the
paddock, where, as arranged, he was to meet
Mr. Abrahamss, Tom Shaddock, and Sir
Ronald. Dismissing his fly for the present,
Norman made his way into the inclose.

"Well, Mr. Slade !" exclaimed the Israelite,
*you have come to say it's all right, and
that Tom, here, is to ride Belisarius; you
don't want anything more than the market
there," and he jerked his thumb in the direction
of the betting-ring, " to tell you that
Bill Smith's got a pretty bad headache this
morning;" and Mr. Abrahamss favoured

Norman with a most expressive wink. 'i've
got a few pounds on my own ; but, bless
you, I'd a deal rather stand in with you."

You must do the best you can with
Reflector, I shan't want your services today,
Tom," said Norman, grimly.

^^Eut s'helj) me, Mr. shade," exclaimed
Abrahamss, '* why it's all over the ring,
they say Bill Smith has been drunk ever
since he's lessen here, and that it will take
him about a month to get sober now."

Well, never mind what they say, Mr.
Abrahamss, Bill Smith will ride Belisarius
to-day, and that's enough for you to know."

No go, I see," said Sir Bonald, joining
Slade as he walked away; 'can't do anything
with him I suppose ?"

"No," rejoined Norman, ' I always knew
it would be a delicate point. You see it is
touching a man on the point of his vanity ;
and the suggestion that Tom Shaddock
should fill his place simply drove him wild."

It's an awful sell," replied the Baronet,

such a good stake as we stand on it, and,
by Jove, old man, I really want it." And
then the pair strolled off to have a look at
Belisarius.

The colt was pacing up and down at the
bottom end of the paddock looking cool and
collected, and quite prepared to take his
part in the struggle that lay before him.
The time was getting on, and already the
saddling-bell for the great race clanged out
upon the ear. There were a crowd of people
gathered around Belisarius, and scanning all
his points. Another ten minutes, and a
little man in a light overcoat pushes his
way somewhat rudely through the throng.
They make way for him, for the silken cap
in the well-known colours tells them that it
is the colt's jockey and owner, with a face
flushed with drink. Bill Smith sullenly
superintended the saddling of his horse ;
another minute or two and he casts off
his overcoat and is promptly thrown into
the saddle. As he moves off with his

horse Slade walks along side of him and
says :

"Trust to the condition you've got under
you, Bill. The colt can't be fitter ; don't
wait too long, but come right away, and
stand no humbugging."

"All right, Mr. Slade," growled the
jockey, sulkily, " I'll come to you for a few
riding-lessons when I've got this gallop
over."

Pig-headed brute ! " exclaimed Sir Ronald,
" neither you nor any one else can do
anything with him to-day. He must just
'gang his ain gait,* as they say the other
side of the Border."

As Bill Smith walked his horse past the
drinking-booth that stood near the entrance
to the paddock, a small lot of well-dressed
men issued from it. They had all glasses
in their hands, and two of them bore bottles.

Here's your health. Bill ! " exclaimed
one of them. " Bill Smith and Belisarius!"
chorused the others. " The best man on

VOL. IT. p

the best horse in England; we'll drink his
health, and good luck to him."

*' Here you are, Bill," exclaimed the first
speaker, filling a glass out of a champagne
bottle, "just a glass of fizz for luck, Bill,"
and he handed a brimming goblet up to
Smith, who, bending over his saddle, took it,
and called out, " All right, lads, you'll see
what a mess 111 make of 'em after we get
round Tattenham Corner ! " then, tossing off
the liquor, he threw the glass back to the
man who had handed it to him.

If at first sight it seems odd that nobody
interfered to prevent this tampering with the
jockey on his way to the post, it must be
borne in mind that Bill Smith stood in the
singular position of being owner, trainer,
and jockey. However, even as it was, there
was an attempt to stop it. Norman Slade
and Sir Ronald, following in the rear of the
horse, caught sight of this little crowd, and,
at the last moment, grasped their design.
They both rushed forward to interfere, but

it was too late ; the cup was drained and
tossed back to its giver before Slade could
intercept it. But he turned quick as lightning
upon the donor, and said, " I want
your name, sir ; this looks to me very like
an attempt to hocus the jockey of the
favourite."

'' My name ! " replied the other, " what
the deuce have you got to do with my name,
and who are you to dare to find fault with
my giving a glass of wine to a gentleman
riding his own horse ? "

But Norman Slade had not lived all his
life about town in the days when pugilism
was patronised by the greatest in the lands
without having learnt to use his hands. He
advanced determinedly on his foe, exclaiming
as he did so, " Quick, Eadcliffe, call the
police; I'll keep this gentleman employed
till they come."

But these two things produced a decided
change in the blustering demeanour of the
dark florid4ooking gentleman who still held
p 2

the bottle of champagne in his hand. He
knew Sir Eonald Radcliffe was well-known
amongst all the leading gentlemen of the
turf. He knew also that the interference of
the police would at once create a great
public scandal, and that was the last thing
Ealph Purzedon desired. Suddenly changing
his manner, he exclaimed —

You have thought proper to accuse me
of hocussing a jockey. Will you have a glass
of champagne ? Get a couple of clean
glasses there one of you."

Yes," said Norman, quickly, " I will,
and a full one. I shall know then what it
is you have put down Bill Smith's throat."

Quite right," replied the other, with a
mocking smile, "ah! here come the glasses,"
and from the self-same bottle he proceeded
to fill them to the very brim. Handing one
to Norman, he took the other himself, and
said : —

Now, sir, we will drink to the success
of Belisarius," and with a low bow he

drained his glass to the dregs, as also did
Slade.

Well, sir," he continued, '' I hope you
found the wine to your liking ? "

Par from it," rejoined Slade, " racecourse
champagne, and bad at that, but I
withdraw my accusation. Good-day, sir."
Come and see it, Eadcliffe," he continued,
taking the Baronet's arm, '' I can swear he
never changed the bottle, for I never took
my eye off him. I believe it to be only
what I said ; but at all events," he concluded,
laughing, '' I shall know in less than
half an hour."

They walked up the course until they
arrived at the Grand Stand, and, looking
into the betting-lawn for a few moments,
found that reaction had set in in favour of
Belisarius. The colt had gone badly in the
market during the morning, but when he
came out, looking fine as a star, and with
the redoubtable Bill Smith on his back,
there was a rush to back him, both on the

part of the public and on those who, thinking
that he would have a very inferior jockey
on his back, had laid against him. Drunk or
sober Bill Smith was equally at home in the
saddle, and, as he gripped his horse and
brought him rattling down the course,
sitting straight and square in his saddle,
few would have dreamt that the drink was
already seething in that resolute horseman's
brain. That canter past the Stand done
with, the lot proceed quietly across towards
the starting-post, and here at once Bill
Smith's irritable temper begins to show
itself. There is always some little manoeuvring
for places on these occasions — some of
the most eminent jockeys are notably whimsical
upon this point, and Bill Smith was
one of these. It was an axiom of his to
have the inside from the beginning, if he
could compass it, and he would dodge and
make unscrupulous use of his well-garnished
vocabulary to attain this end ; more than
one of his fellow-jockeys would yield the

point sooner than encounter the lash of Bill
Smith's scurrilous tongue. He was worse
than usual on this occasions and, inflamed
by drink, ventured to favour the starter with
some of his choice observations. He was
too preoccupied in railing at those around
him to attend strictly to the business in
hand, and, when that functionary, by no
means prepossessed in his. Bill Smith's
favour, suddenly dropped his flag, instead of
making the best use of his opportunity, the
be-mused jockey hesitated, not quite believing
it was an actual start. Even when he
awoke to the fact he still further complicated
matters by waiting to hurl a torrent
of abuse at the starter before setting his
horse going.

They're off," roared the crowd. '' Pooh!
nonsense ! False start ! " was the cry,
succeeded immediately afterwards by the
shout, 'rit's a go, by heaven! and the
favourite's left at the post." Yes, there,
true enough, were the horses sweeping up

the hill in a cluster, and the favourite at
least a hundred yards in their rear.

"It's all over, Norman!" exclaimed the
Baronet, as he wearily dropped his glasses ;
and the best thing we've been in for many
a- day is chucked away by a drunken fool."

Norman Slade made no reply, he was
busied straining his eyes to catch sight of
the horses, and even as they went through
'' the furzes " he fancied that Belisarius had
made up a little of his ground. Then the
lot were all out of sight, and when next he
caught sight of them, the dark blue jacket
and scarlet cap of Bill Smith were still toiling
far in the rear. As they came down
the hill it was evident that the Belton
horse had closed the portentous gap that
separated him from his field considerably.
Then they came round Tattenham Corner,
and if ever a jockey shaved the rails there it
was Bill Smith upon this occasion. Muddled
though he was, he knew he was so far
behind them that he could not afford to

throw away an inch of ground, and a bit of
his old skill was exhibited in the way he
crept up to his horses. But it was a long
gap to make up, and the old patience and
coolness began to fail him. Half way up
the straight he began to get nervous at the
distance he was still behind ; if the race was
to be won at all it could only be done inch
by inch, with one determined rush on the
very post. Bill Smith began to bustle his
horse, and Belisarius, who had been engaged
in a weary stern-chase from the commencement,
soon showed signs that the struggle
had told upon him. The fierce excitement
of the gallop, the nervous anxiety to win
such a valuable stake for himself and
friends, were too much for Bill Smith, on
the top of the drink that he had consumed
before starting; he lost his head, and instead
of waiting till the last moment with that
consummate coolness which had often electrified
the Southerners, and brought many a
roar from Yorkshire throats on Doncaster

Moor, he sat clown just before reaching the
Stand, and commenced riding his horse in
earnest. Gamely did Belisarius respond to
the call, and the colt's final flash was brilliant
in the extreme. Eor one second he
threatened to overhaul the leaders, and a
cry went up, '' The favourite wins ! The
favourite wins ! " but in the next half-dozen
strides his bolt was shot, he died away to
nothing ; and when the numbers went up
Belisarius was not amongst the first three.

The race is over, and Harold by the Confessor,
out of Dauntless, is hailed the winner
of the Derby of 18 — .

Norman Slade greeted the hoisting of the
victor's number with a " splendid groan,"
like unto that with which Mr. Disraeli tells
us Lord George Bentinck received the news
of Surplice's triumph. As for Sir Ronald
he said nothing aloud ; he was a good loser,
and it was seldom the way the battle went
could be traced in his calm, passionless,
features ; but upon this occasion I think

there was a muttered imprecation against
Bill Smith, and a resolution to depend
upon that unstable reed no more. As for
that worthy he was half mad with rage
and disappointment, his language in the
weighing-room was what Bred Harte describes
as — '' Frequent, and painful, and
free."

He poured forth a torrent of abuse on the
starter, he vowed it was no race, he objected
to everything in the et cetera, cetera race,
he wanted to lodge an objection, he wanted
to appeal to the stewards, and it wasn't
until he had received a peremptory intimation,
that, if he didn't quit the weighing-room
without more words the authorities
would be compelled to have him removed,
the discomfited jockey could be induced to
retire. As far as the general public goes
their sympathies were with Bill Smith ;
they did not know how it happened, but
they did understand that he had somehow
been left behind, and were very much inclined,

like Eill Smith himself, to lay the
blame upon the starter. Bat the regular
racing-men knew better; they knew very
well whose fault it was, and that the famous
jockey of the North had no one to blame
but himself.

However, it is little use to argue upon
how the milk was spilt, upon how it all
happened on this occasion. The fiat of
the judge has gone forth, and is irrevocable.
Some rumours there were of an
*' objection" in the first few minutes after
the race, the consequence these of Bill
Smith's wild ravings. But such report met
with but little credence to begin with, and
was speedily contradicted. On the top of
a drag opposite the Grand Stand, with
some half-a-dozen other men consoling
themselves for their disappointment with a
capital lunch, was Charlie Devereux.

Rather a facer, old man," remarked
one of his companions. " They've got me
for four hundred. I thought Belisarius

couchant lose ; but he got such an awful
bad start."

I don't know how it happened," replied
Charlie. "But I feel quite sure that he lead
no business to be left behind like that''

The starter ought to be had up before
the stewards' said another. '' If he had only-got
off he must have won. Look at the
ground he made up towards the finish."

'' Struck me," rejoined Charlie, " that he
was in rather too gvesi a hurry to get home.
If he'd had a little more patience he must
have been very near winning. The horse
ran game as a bull-dog ; but I know what
that foUow-my-leader game is. I was taught
the lesson the first time I rode in public,
and just as I caught my horses found I had
come to the end of my own."

'' Yes," replied one of his companions.
It stands to reason that after making up
all that leeway there can be but a very brief
flash left in your horse when you call upon
him for his supreme effort."

Charlie nodded assent ; but the discussion
was idle ; the one fact remained that he had
lost a lot of money, and that it had to be
paid by the following Monday.

CHAPTEE XIV.

RAISING THE WIND.

In one of Disraeli's earlier novels he tells us
of a certain marquis and his spouse, who,
finding themselves inconvenienced by the
simple process of spending two years' income
in one, determined to economise, and,
abandoning the delights of London, betook
themselves to the country with a view to
that laudable sacrifice. But as they considered
that the mere fact of such retirement
of itself constitutes economy, and that the
country was unendurable without a fashionable
mob to inhabit their country-scat,
which distinguished mob must be regaled

upon all the best there was to eat and drink
in the land, they awoke to the fact that
their scheme of retrenchment was a failure,
and, as the marchioness sweetly observes,
'' henceforth expense will be no object." In like
manner men in their early gambling scrapes
are always apt to think that a little more
makes no difference. Charlie Devereux's
'' plunge " upon Bell satins has been already
rather upon the double or quits principle.
And that he should feel it incumbent to
back Maritana for the Oaks, with a view to
recovering his Derby losses, was strictly in
accord with all race-going experience ; and
that Maritana should occupy the same
ignoble position, namely, that of unplaced,
at the termination of that classic contest,
was only the customary result of such
attempt to retrieve his losses. Charlie felt
a little sick when he saw Maritana collapse
hopelessly just before the real bitter finish
began ; and as he travelled back to town
pondered gloomily as to where he was to

obtain the necessary funds with which to
settle his accounts on the Monday.

Now to obtain a considerable sum of
money at such short notice as is given, from
Friday night to Monday afternoon, there is
no reliance to be placed upon any but the
children of Israel. A large sum of money
is, of course, to be regarded with due
respect as to your position and securities;
but, given these both unimpeachable, it is
usually to the money-lender that you must
go to obtain it in time. The terms naturally
vary in accordance with the risk to be run.
To a man with undoubted tangible property,
who only requires a few weeks to raise the
necessary sum, his charges will be comparatively
lenient ; but in the case of a
customer like Charlie he will undoubtedly
demand to be paid in proportion to the risk.
Char-lie's experience of London usurers was
happily limited ; it would have been better
for him had it been still more limited ; but

VOL. II. Q

with no little perturbation on Saturday
morning lie jumped into a cab, and drove
down to the offices of Messrs. Jordan and
Co. finance agents, whose business premises
were in Northumberland Street, Strand.
There he saw the representative of that
shadowy firm, and who, knowing his master's
views with regard to Mr. Charles
Devereux's paper, informed him that he
thought it was possible it might be done ;
that money was scarce, and he would have
to pay high for it; but that he could say
nothing positively until he had consulted
his partner in the city. If Mr. Devereux
would call upon him between eleven and
twelve on Monday morning he would be
able to give him a definite answer. And in
the event of their being able to accommodate
him at all the money should be handed over
to him then and there. And with such
comfort Charlie betook himself back to
Limmer's, and bethought himself what an
egregious fool he was, and what a precious

tale it was now incumbent upon him to
unfold to his father.

He had seen but little of Bertie Slade
since their arrival in London ; they were
both staying at Limmer's, but, whereas
Charlie pretty well lived there. Gilbert
only slept there. Gilbert naturally lunched,
dined, &c. at the Thermopolium, but Charlie
as yet had not obtained entrance to one of
these monochal palaces. It was, perhaps,
this that had lured him to his undoing. His
associates at Limmer's were all young gentlemen
similarly situated to himself, whom
he had known in the first place at the University,
and who had now joined Her Majesty's
service. It was a fasti hotel in
those days. I am talking of the old house,
and before carpets desecrated the sanded
floor of the famous coffee-room — scene of
so many mad-cap revels, of such wild
betting, and in which so many prize-fights
had been arranged and eccentric matches
concocted. Not a very good academy for a
Q2

young gentleman to commence his studies
of life in London. He had not as yet confided
the extent of his losses at Epsom to
any one. Although he had seen Mrs. Kingston
on the Thursday afternoon, and she had
condoled with him sweetly on his ill-luck,
yet he had not even confessed to her that
things were still worse than she knew of.
He had telegraphed to his colonel for a
couple more days' leave, to enable him to
confer with Jordan and Co. upon the Monday,
and received a favourable reply to his
request. Very much astounded was Bertie
Slade when he discovered that afternoon
that Charlie was not to be his travelling
companion.

No ; I wired to the chief for two days*
more leave, and have got it. The fact is,
old man, I'm in a deuce of a scrape, much
worse than you know of."

I see," interrupted Bertie, hastily,
*' vr)u were fool enough to pile a lot more
money on Belisarius."

"Just SO," replied Devereux, "and I've
had to go where I did before to find the
money to settle with. There's no doubt
about it now, I shall have to tell the story
at North Leach."

'' I am afraid so," said Slade ; "the sooner
the better, but it's time I was ofi*. I suppose
we shall see you down on Monday
night," and with a nod of adieu Bertie
Slade took his departure. He had had a
most unsatisfactory week. I don't mean in
the way of racing, for he had lost but very
little money, and cared less about it. His
main object in London had been to see
Lettice, and in that he had been grievously
disappointed. He had called twice, and
upon both occasions found neither Miss
Devereux nor Mrs. Connop at home. He
had been more fortunate with Mrs. Kingston,
but had derived scant comfort from his
visit there. That lady, without actually
committing herself to the unvarnished statement
that Lettice and Mr. Furzedon were

engaged, sent him away quite under that
impression.

It's not announced, you know, but nobody
has the slightest doubt that it is so.
Mr. Purzedon has for months made no secret
of his admiration for Miss Devereux. I am
sure, Mr. Slade, he has bored me to death
with it. She has only had to hold up her
finger any time the last six months to bring
him to his knees, and — well — I suppose at
last she has done it."

And I suppose there's nothing more to
be said now but to offer our congratulations,"
replied Bertie. "Purzedon is a man I
don't much fancy myself — he is not quite
my sort."

"You are quite right, Mr. Slade," said
the lady, with a slight curl of her lip. " I
should not think he was ; but he is an excellent
match, and that is more to the purpose
to a young lady on promotion. I hope
you were more fortunate than Mr. Devereux,
who told me he had a very bad race. My

husband was in luck. He heard — I don't
know how — that there was something wrong
about Belisarius ; that his jockey couldn't
be trusted, or something of that sort ; and
both he and Mr. Purzedon won a nice little
stake over it."

Indeed ! " exclaimed Bertie with some
interest. '' Then there may be something ina
wild report that there is flying about. It's
rumoured that Smith, the jockey who rode
Belisarius, was hocussed as he was leaving the
paddock. The man is given to drink, and was
induced to have a glass of wine for luck."

"Really," said Mrs. Kynaston, "this is
the first I have heard of it. Dick says
there's generally a canard of some sort
when the favourite for a big race gets
beaten."

I daresay he is right," replied Slade,
and that this report is perfectly unfounded,"
and then Bertie rose and wished
Mrs. Kynaston " Good-bye," receiving strict
injunctions from that lady to be sure to

come and see her again when he was next in
town.

A very clever woman was Mrs. Kynaston,
but, in such delicate scheming as she was at
present perpetrating, the dropping of one
stitch, the slightest mistake, suffices to destroy
the entire web. Prom her lips had
just fallen words the impost of which it
was impossible she could foresee. In the
idlest way she had told Bertie Slade that
Eurzedon had profited by the defeat of Belisarius.
Now, Bertie's uncle Norman was
not only a considerable sufferer from that
result, but he had also seen who it was that
handed the wine to Bill Smith. He did
not know who Eurzedon was, but was not
likely now to forget his face. A hard,
resolute man, no one was more likely
to perseveringly unmask a robbery than
Norman Slade. And, if he should happen
to hear from his nephew that the giver of
that glass of wine had a direct interest in
Bill Smith's not winning the race, he was

likely to investigate the matter thoroughly ;
and, as we know Eurzedon had hy no means
clean hands in the whole business, such a
charge as that substantiated against him
would mean social bankruptcy as far as Mr.
Purzedon was concerned.

The weak place in the web that Mrs.
Kynaston had taken such pains to weave —
and she was painfully aware of it — was the
fact that her fib about Lettice's engagement
was in hourly danger of exposure. It was
hardly possible she thought that Charlie
.Devereux could see his sister without congratulating
her upon her engagement. He
had not seen her yet, but she knew that he
was bound to call in Onslow Gardens
before he went back to York. It is true
she had sworn him to secresy, that she had
told him it was not yet announced, vowed
that she ought never to have told him,
pointed out that he would get her into
a most awful scrape if he divulged it.
'you'll promise me," she had said, "not to

open your mouth about it; Lettie would
never forgive me if you didn't hear it first
from her own lips." And Charlie had
sworn to keep silence on the subject. But
Mrs. Kynaston doubted whether he would
find it possible. Then again Lettice herself
might allude to it as an absurd rumour
which she requested him to contradict.
She did not think she would do so ; still it
was a thing quite likely to happen. Mrs.
Kynaston knew that Mr. Slade had called
in Onslow Gardens, hut she had also ascertained
unsuccessfully, and that had been a
great piece of luck, as far as she was concerned,
and she now hoped that both he and
Charlie were well on their way back to York.
That, as far as the latter was concerned,
we know was not the case. But he proved
loyal to his trust. He went down to Onslow
Gardens on the Sunday and saw both his
aunt and his sister. They thought him
rather absent and distrait and, taking advantage
of their being left alone for a few

minutes, Lettie pressed him pretty closely
as to what was the matter, and then Charlie
disburdened his soul. He told her he had
lost a terrible lot of money on racing, and
that there was nothing for it but to goto
his father.

'' If he won't see me through it my military
career must come to an abrupt termination.
I've been an awful fool I know, and
if the governor don't stand to me I'm likely
to be sharply punished for my folly. I like
my profession, and it will be bitter grief tome
to have to give it up."

"Is it very big, Charlie? How much
money do you suppose would clear you ? "

*' I hardly know, but it would take a lot."

Father will scold," rejoined Lettie, "and
you can't be much surprised at that. I
think it is possible that Aunt Sarah might
help a little. Give hundred would see you
through, I suppose?"

Wouldn't be a bit of good," he rejoined.
It would take three times the amount."

'soil! Charlie," exclaimed the girl, "this
is a bad business. Must you have all this
money immediately ? "

No," he replied ; " but I must find it ina
few weeks at the outside. At all events it
has got to be found, sooner or later."

'' And Ashen do you intend to speak to
father about it?"

"Well, I shall get a few days' leave, and
come down to North Leach. How long
shall you be in town ?"

I don't know exactly, but to the end of
the season, I hope. But I'll come home,
Charlie, if you think that I can be of any
use."

'' You always were a brick, Lettie ! " he
rejoined, kissing her; "but, hush! here comes
Aunt Sarah. Not a word to any one, mind,
till I tell you to speak."

Mrs. Connop was extremely pleased with
her nephew, and full of questions concerning
his military life. She expressed her
intention of giving Harrogate a turn when

the real hot weather set in. '* Then," she
continued, " we'll come over to York, and
review the regiment, or whatever you call
it." And after a little desultory badinage
of this description, Charlie took his departure.


The next morning, young Devereux made
his way to Jordan and Co's. He found the
representative of that firm quite ready to
receive him.

I have conferred with my partners, Mr.
Devereux," he observed; 'rand they wish
me to point out that we are holding a good
deal of paper of yours. I'll admit that your
getting into the army renders us a little
more secure than we were, but we don't
very much care about advancing any further
money. Still, we don't wish to leave an old
customer in the lurch; and, therefore, if you
will write your name across this bill, we arc
prepared to let you have it at once ; but,
you will observe, that this bill is at thirty
days' sight; in short, our advance is only

meant to enable you to look round and procure
the money elsewhere."

Charlie thought for a moment ; " I must
go to the governor," he muttered, '' and the
sooner the better. Mv rains: account must
be settled to-day, but a month will be ample
time in which to come to an explanation at
home."

*' All right !" he said ; '' I shall not want
it for longer. I'm paying dear enough for
it, as it is, and have no wish to pay still
further for accommodation."

'- Quite right, Mr. Devereux," replied the
usurer, as he counted out a bundle of notes.
'' The dearest thing you can buy in the
world is money, with the exception of experience
; and when you've got the latter,
you will never buy the former."

"Come, I say," replied Charlie, "I don't
see what you've got to complain about."

'' I don't complain," rejoined the moneylender,
laughing. '' It's my trade, and
though it's by means so good as it looks, as

we have to run great risks, and at times
incur frightful losses, still, I often wonder
we have so many customers as we do. I
think you'll find that right, sir;" and as he
concluded he pushed the notes across to
Charlie.

'' Quite right, I thank you," rejoined
Devereux, and, blithely nodding a good
morning to Jordan and Co., he shot out of
the dingy office.

CHAPTER Xy.

FURZEDON RETURNS TO THE CHARGE.

The exultation of Eiirzedon at the result of
the Derby week was unbounded. It was
not merely that he won a good bit of money,
but that Charlie Devereux should unknown -
ingle have come to him for assistance in his
difficulties was a piece of rare good fortune.
Find the wherewithal for Devereux to settle
with, of course he would; he would have
found double the amount. It was forging
the very weapon he wanted and placing it
in his hands ; the worst of those bills he
held was that no proceedings could be taken
upon them for some time, but he had purposely
instructed his agent that this time

the loan should be fcr only a month ; he
knew very well how quickly a month slipped
away under those circumstances; he knew
very well that Charlie would have the
greatest disinclination to apply to his father,
and he felt pretty sure that he would not
until the last extremity; that he would do
so at last Eurzedon never doubted, any more
than he did that Tom Devereux in the end
would pay the money ; he was running no
risk if he could use this as an engine with
which to induce Lettie Devereux to marry
him. Well and good, he would be only too
glad to wipe off Charlie's debts as the price
of her hand. If, on the contrary, she declined
to make this sacrifice in her brother's
interest, well he, at all events, was not
likely to be any loser by what he had done.
Sacrifice, forsooth ! There was not much
sacrifice about it; there were plenty of girls
in Lettie's position who would only be too
glad to share the comfortable home and
income he could offer them. But the diffi-

VOL. II. R

cities in his way had only increased his
desire to make Lettice his wife.

He was one of those obstinate dispositions
that opposition merely stimulates ; how he
had come to wish for this marriage he would
have been somewhat puzzled to explain ; so
dexterously had the idea been poured into
his mind by Mrs. Kynaston, that he was
hardly conscious of that lady being the
originator of it. She was his confidant, she
approved of it and encouraged it ; he knew
all that, but he still failed to recognise that,
but for Mrs. Kynaston, it would probably
never have entered his head to seek Lettice
Devereux in marriage. Now he was committed
to it, and was resolved to leave no
stone unturned to bring it about. The overthrow
of Belisarius, and Charlie's consequent
necessities, would enable him to exercise
pressure at once, and he determined before
June was over that Miss Devereux should
be strongly urged, for her brother's sake, to
reconsider her late decision. That any harm

could possibly accrue to him, from the small
part he had taken in the Belisarius Derby,
Ralph Furzedon would have laughed to scorn.
Poisoning a horse or poisoning a man are
offences that come clearly within the grasp
of the law, but to simply encourage a
drunkard in his inebriety, ah ! well, there is
no penalty against that. But, though a man
may escape all legal consequences of his
acts, there sometimes follows a social crucifixion,
which, with Furzedon's aims and
ambitions, is pretty well as bitter, and, little
as he thinks of it, just such a storm is slowly
gathering round Ealph Furzedon's head.

Miss Devereux was not a little put out
at missing Mr. Slade. It was most provoking
: his calling twice showed that he
was undoubtedly anxious to see her, and if
they could but have met she thought that
at all events that one question would have
been solved, which she was so anxious to
determine — whether he was in earnest in his
intentions to herself or not. Mrs. Kynaston
R 2

had warned her against giving much credence
to the soft speeches of '' those dragoons."
She had dwelt upon the fact that
he had never thought it worth while to comedown
to North Leach for that week's hunting;
she had ridiculed the idea that Charlie could
not get leave, though Charlie protested himself
such was the case; but let Mrs. Kingston
laugh as she pleased, there was no getting
over the fact that during a week like the
last, a week in which men's hands are generally
full of engagements, Mr. Slade had
twice endeavoured to see her. She talked
matters over a little with her aunt, and that
lady, who in her quiet undemonstrative way
would have been as much pleased with the
girl's engagement to Bertie Slade as she had
been the reverse at the idea of her marrying
E/alph Purzedon, laughed merrily, and said :
It will be time enough to think what
you will do with him when he is an avowed
pretender to your hand. In the meantime,
nothing will persuade me that he is not
thoroughly honest in his admiration. It

may be that he don't quite see the ways and
means. I think, for the present, it is a case
for suspending judgment, my dear. It is
very unlucky our being out upon each occasion
that he called."

Miss Devereux took much comfort from
her aunt's counsel. Gilbert Slade would
no doubt contrive to see her before the
season was over. York was no distance
from London, and he would find little difficulty
in obtaining leave, if he wished for it.

But there was another thing which, just
now, occasioned Lettie considerable annoyance.
Thanks to Mrs. Kynaston's malicious
tongue, the report of her engagement had
been spread pretty widely amongst her
friends and acquaintance. She was constantly
exposed to most embarrassing remarks
from her friends. One of these, for
instance, would whisper into her ear no end
of congratulations. " I am so glad, dear."
And when Miss Devereux retorted, " Congratulations
— what about ? I am sure I

don't understand you," the other would
reply, " I beg pardon ; I'm sure I've no
wish to be premature, but I thought it was
quite an open secret!"

In vain did Lettie try to combat all such
felicitations ; it was useless ; the rumour
was too strong for her. It had spread about
that she was engaged to be married to Mr.
Purzedon, and the world refused to believe
anything else. On the contrary, it scolded
Lettie behind her back for denying it.
'' Such nonsense ! " remarked her friends.
Why cannot she openly announce it ?
What on earth can she want to make a
secret and a mystery of it for?" Mr. Eurze-
don, too, contributed not a little to this
belief. He contrived to obtain most accurate
information of Miss Devereux's movements,
and wherever Lettice went, there,
if he could manage it, was Mr. Purzedon.
He played his role, too, perfectly on such
occasions ; he was not so obtrusive in his
attentions as to give the girl any opportunity

of sharply declining them. He was
scrupulously polite — rather too formally so,
people said, for an affianced lover; but he
was always there en evidence, and giving
the idea that he was in attendance on Miss
Devereux. Lettie chafed terribly under what
she considered this persecution, but she was
powerless to put an end to it, unless she
gave up society altogether. Mr. Eurzedon
was far too cunning to allow her to come to
an explanation, and bore the rebuffs he
occasionally encountered with imperturbable
serenity.

In the meantime Miss Devereux was also
much troubled in her mind at not hearing
from Charlie. As the month of June slipped
by and brought no letter, she began to fear
that he had committed some still greater
folly than before; debts don't pay themselves,
and Charlie had no one to go to
except his father or Mrs. Connop, and in
either case Lettice felt sure that she would
have heard of it. What was he doing? He

had told her himself that the settlement of
his liabilities admitted of little delay, and
still, oddly enough, she heard nothing whatever
of him. He had promised to write ;
and, bad correspondent though he was, yet,
upon this occasion, she did think he would
have kept his word. She had no idea that
Charlie or Mr. Slade had heard anything of
this silly report about her engagement. It
had never crossed her mind that this rumour
had reached York. Charlie never mentioned
that he corresponded with Mrs. Kynaston ;
nor had he seen fit to tell her of that visit
to town some few weeks back. Lettie's
friendship with Mrs. Kynaston had rather
cooled of late, and, indeed, would have cooled
considerably more still if that lady would
have allowed it to do so, but Mrs. Kynaston
had no idea of that. It did not suit her at
all to have any breach with the Devereuxeses ;
and when accused of the mischief she had
done by her foolish speaking — for Lettie indignantly
taxed her with having originated

this report concerning herself and Mr. Eurze-
don — she was full of apologies for the mischief
she had unwittingly done. She denied
emphatically that she was the founder of
the story ; she had heard it — well, she really
could not say where, how, or from whom ;
and she admitted that she had been indiscreet
enough to mention it to two or
three people. Lettie knew that she had
always told her that she might be Mrs.
Purzedon if she willed ; she really thought
it would come about ; and that, though not
announced, it was quite an open secret.
She was so sorry if she had done wrong ;
but she honestly believed that a more harmless
bit of news she had never passed on in
society ; and, more than that, she was only
sorry to hear it was not true. In short,
Mrs. Kynaston would not quarrel, and therefore
Letty was compelled to some extent to
continue the old friendship.

Mr. Purzedon had never made his appearance
in Onslow Gardens since his failure;

but one morning towards the end of May
Lettie received a note from him to say that
he would call about three in the afternoon,
and most earnestly entreating her to see
him alone, if not otherwise engaged. When
Miss Devereux showed this letter to her
aunt, Mrs. Connop's bristles were all on end.

'' It's ridiculous, Lettie," she said, " no
wonder this report still continues about you
both, no wonder he still dangles about you
as far as he dare. I never asked you particulars;
but I certainly did understand
that you had said no to him decisively.
Of course the man is coming down here to
ask you the same question over again. Now,
do be resolute this time, and send him about
his business."

The afternoon came. The drawing-room
was duly given up to Miss Devereux, and
a very few minutes after three Mr. Purzedon
was announced.

*' I would not have intruded upon you,"
he observed, " except in the interests of

your family. Your brother Charlie is a
very dear friend of mine ; are you aware
that he is in most serious money difficulties
? "

He told me as much," replied Lettice,
'' but won't you sit down."

Purzedon took advantage of her invitation.
You are hardly aware," he continued, " I
dare say, of what a very serious business
this really is. I have learnt it, quite lately,
and by accident ; it seems he was not only
heavily embarrassed at Cambridge, but he
has further lost a great deal of money on
this last Derby. He has borrowed the money
at short notice to pay his Derby losses, and
this money he will have to find almost
immediately. He further has the Cambridge
liabilities hanging over his head, and
the whole thing. Miss Devereux, unless satisfactorily
settled by somebody, involves the
complete ruin of his career. May I ask if
he has confessed this state of things to his
father?"

Allow me to ask, Mr. Purzedon, if you
are in my brother's confidence ?"

'' No ; it would be better for him if I
were ; but of course, as he has not thought
proper to confide his troubles to me, it is
impossible for me to speak to him about
them."

'' Still, Mr. Eurzedon, I do not as vet seethe
object of this interview. You are not
in my brother's confidence, and acknowledge
you have no claim to interfere, why
then come down to discuss the subject
with me?"

'' Because, as you know very well, it only
rests with you to give me the best of all
possible rights to interfere ; I am very fond
of Charlie, and could wish nothing better
than to save him in this crisis. As his
brother in-law, I could step in at once;
before a week was out he should be free
from all his embarrassments, only give me
the authority I humbly sued for the other
day; be my wife. Miss Devereux. You

may not feel towards me now as I would
wish, but my devotion must conquer, and
I am content to wait for the love of which
I shall be so proud,"

No, no ! " she cried, ^' I told you before
that I cannot do this thing. Thank you,
Mr. Purzedon, for the compliment you have
paid me, but I cannot marry you."

Then you refuse to save your brother
from ruin at the outset of his career," rejoined
Purzedon, slowly.

You have no right to say so ! " she
exclaimed, vehemently. '' It is himself has
wrought his own undoing. He can hardly
expect me to save him from the consequences
of his own folly."

^' That is exactly what I appeal to you todo,
to save him from the consequences of
his own madness."

Purzedon had indirectly been the original
cause of Charles Devereux's difficulties : he it
was who had first persuaded him — Charlie —
to go to Newmarket; and his example, however

unintentionally, it was that had led
him into letting so much more heavily than
he could afford.

You have had your answer, sir," replied
Lettie, after a pause. "It is unfair, ungenerous,
to press me further on the subject."

I can do no more," replied Pnrzedon,
rising ; '' but, believe me, unless your father
comes to the rescue, Charlie's soldiering days
are numbered. He would have to fly the
country, for his commission money will not
suffice to satisfy his creditors."

And no doubt his father will pay his
debts for him," said Lettie, proudly, and with
a confidence which she was far from feeling;
and then Miss Devereux made him a rather
ceremonious bend, as an intimation that
their interview was over.

'' I'm sorry you can't think better of me.
I would have saved Charlie if I could, for
his own sake. I should have been doubly
pleased to have done so for yours. Goodbye,
Miss Devereux. You have twice said

^ No ' to an honest love ; I can only say
now, may all happiness await you ! "

Very pretty words, but Lattice thought
she detected a malicious sneer in the tone.
It might have been merely her own fancy ;
still it stung her pride, and made her feel
that this man had, after all, been merely
bargaining for her hand.

Thank you," she replied, bitterly; 'whatever
your regard for Charlie may be I
strongly advise you not to let my brother
know that you considered his sister's hand
a fair equivalent for the liquidation of his
debts."

Eursdon muttered something in reply, to
the effect that she was not doing him justice,
and then retired, rebuffed, but by no
means disheartened. He had not been unduly
sanguine, and, though there could be
no doubt that he had met this time with a
most unqualified refusal, yet he had no
intention of abandoning his suit.

CHAPTEE Xii.

IN THE usurer's FANGS.

Bertie Slade is back in York, and is
strongly impressed with that feeling which
comes to all of us when the world is not
running quite to our liking — that all is
vanity. He has no doubt now of Miss
Devereux's engagement ; and yet, as a
matter of fact, he has no more grounds to
go upon than when he went up to London.
Mrs. Kingston had told Charlie that it was
so then, Mrs. Kynaston has told him that it is
so now ; analysed, the whole story rests, as it
has done from the first, on Mrs. Kynaston s
word. Bertie Slade is by nature a cool, resolute,
clear-headed man; but it is seldom

that those points stand to one in a case of
this kind; and it was not until he found
himself forestalled, and that another had
stolen his love, that he became the least
aware of how deeply his feelings were involved.
He took it as men of his type do :
he was, perhaps, a little quieter, a little
graver in manner, but otherwise no one
would have guessed that a great trouble was
upon him, and that he had lost, as he
believed, a bigger stake than any of the
wild gamblers on Epsom Downs.

There are men who make plaint of their
misfortunes on love's tangled pathways, who
carry their hearts on their sleeves, and call
upon all those they come across to condole
with them upon Chloe's fickleness; men
who carry their tale of woe in their faces,
but whose wounds are only skin-deep ; a
man who would weep in response to the
question of the American humorist — " Has
calico proved deceitful?" But Bertie Slade
was not of this kind ; he might not show it,

VOL, II. s

but, nevertheless, he felt the loss of Lettice
Devereux very bitterly. Then he wondered
what on earth Charlie meant to do; he had
got to like the boy very much, and knew
that he must be hovering on the very brink
of ruin. Young Devereux had said nothing
to him since that brief conversation at Limmer's.
What did he mean to do? Surely it
must be getting high time that he consulted
with his father about how his difficulties
were to be got over; but no, he pointedly
avoided all conversation with Slade on the
subject, and to any inquiries about when he
was going to North Leach rejoined carelessly,
" It didn't matter for two or three
weeks yet," and Bertie did not care to force
his confidence. How or upon what terms
Charlie had raised money to settle his
Epsom debts Slade did not know; but he
felt convinced that if Charlie did not take
counsel with his father there would be an
explosion before many weeks were over his
head.

The fact was, that, with all his gay, careless,
insouciant, manner, Charlie Devereux
was by no means on a bed of roses. He,
too, knew the explosion must come, and he
knew further how very near it was at hand,
but, like many men of his type, he shrank
from all unpleasantness ; physical danger
he would have faced without a moment's
hesitation, but he shirked that mauvais
quart cohere with his father, like the
veriest cranmer does the brook in a stiff
country. He knew that it must be; but
that he argued was no reason that it should
be before it was imperative. He rocked
himself to sleep with the idea that he could
not well ask for leave again so soon, and
that it would be time enough for him to goto
North Leach and make full confession
when it was notified to him that his acceptances
had become due.

But if Charlie Devereux took things easy
and dallied with the golden moments it
was far otherwise with Mr. Eurzedon. He
s2

anxiously counted every hour that laid
between him and the next step in his
strange wooing, and no time was lost when
the moment arrived for setting in motion
the machinery of the law. Legal proceedings
against Charlie Devereux followed
promptly on the curt intimation that his
bill was protested, followed indeed with a
promptitude that Charlie little dreamed of.
He had written in reply to the notice he
had received to say that he would make all
arrangements to settle the affair in the
course of a few days, but Jordan and Co.
paying scant attention to this epistle,
loosed the bloodhounds of the law without
more ado.

Devereux was lazily sauntering out of the
ante-room one afternoon, when he was encountered
by one of his special cronies, a
precocious young gentleman, always keenly
awake to what was going on around him.

Hold on, Charlie," he exclaimed, " there
are two as suspicious-looking gents as ever

I set eyes on anxiously inquiring for you —
they are hovering about your quarters, and
have got sheriff's officers written in every
line of their ugly . faces. Stay where you
are, old man, if you've any cause to be afraid
of such cattle. Just fill your pocket with
cigars, and wait till I come back. I'll have
my pony round at the back door in ten
minutes. If you bucket him into York,
you'll catch the evening train easy. Bertie
Slade will make it all right for you with the
chief, and you can just keep out of the way
for a few days while matters are arranged."
He had often pictured to himself something
of this kind happening, but all the
same the blow came rather like a thunderclap
at last. He had thought there would
be more notice ; he had never dreamed of
its being all so sudden ; still, Charlie could
think of nothing better than what his young
counsellor suggested ; he turned back into
the ante-room, rang the bell, refilled his
cigar-case, s-^nt down to the messiah for

five pounds worth of change, and then
quietly awaited the upshot of events.

Young Sparshot was back within the time
he mentioned. '' There's no mistake about
it, Charlie," he cried ; " these fellows are
thirsting for blood. The pony will be round
in two minutes, and don't spare him. You
can leave him at the Station Hotel. They'll
take care of him there for me. Ah ! here
he is ; now, old fellow, slip quietly round
the right wing of the barracks. Your
quarters, which they are watching, are on
the left. If you've luck you'll be through
the gate before they know you've gone. At
all events, it will be quite your own fault if
they catch you. I'll see a portmanteau is
sent after you to Limmer's.

Charlie made no reply, but wrung his
friend's hand and jumped into the saddle.
Give minutes more and a triumphant
Yoicks, gone away," from Sparshot startled
the bailiffs on their post, but Devereux
was in a hand gallop, and half-way to

York before they realised that their prey
had escaped them. Arrived there, he found
that he had just ten minutes to spare, and,
having taken his ticket, thought it prudent
to lurk as far as possible in the background
; but he need have been under no
apprehension, for nobody appeared likely to
interfere with him. And at the appointed
time he stepped into a first-class carriage
and was whirled away to the metropolis to
make arrangements."

Making arrangements " is a vague and
comprehensive phrase ever on the lips of
gentlemen in difficulties ; it seems very easy
at the first blush to make arrangements,
though when it is sought to put such in
practice it is disgusting to find that these
brilliant schemes are by no means so easy
to carry out. Charlie was in for it now, and
at once showed plenty of decision ; he only
waited in London till the aril vul of his portmanteau,
and then at once. retracing his

steps, went down to North Leach, to make
full confession to his father.

He was aware that his father could lose
his temper, he had seen him more than once
give way to his wrath, but to Charlie he had
ever been a kind and indulgent father ; even
when the lad got into his first money scrape
at Cambridge, old Tom Devereux had made
comparatively little fuss about it. He had
called him a '' donned young full," Tom's
Lincolnshire dialect was apt to get of the
broadest when he was excited, but he supposed
the young 'uns must have their fling,
and that they would kick over the traces a
bit. But this time, the old gentleman was
very angry, he vowed he would put down
no such sum as that to pay for a son's
extravagance ; he had paid his debts at the
University; he had only the other day
found a lot of money for his outfit ; and, if
he had been idiot enough to get sixteen
hundred pounds in debt, well, he must just

face the consequences. Did the lad think
that the brass was so easy to come by as all
that ? If it had been to start him in any
business, well, he might have thought about
it, but to pay for his reckless extravagance,
not if he knew it ! Charlie had got himself
into the scrape, and he must get himself out
of it as he best might.

To stay longer at North Leach Charlie
felt was dangerous. When his persecutors
discovered that he had fled from York his
own home was one of the places they would
naturally expect him to head for. His
father was obdurate; time might soften him,
but that was exactly what Charlie had not
to spare. A line from Bertie Slade had told
him that the Colonel would be as liberal ashe
could to him in the matter of leave.
"But remember, Charlie, that after all onlj^
means two or three weeks; at the end of that
time you will have to give him a definite
answer about what you propose to do. I'm
sure he will forward your views in every

respect, but I own I see nothing for you but
to exchange to India, and even that must
depend on your being able to make some
sort of terms with Jordan and Co. If you
think I can be of any use, say so, and T will
run up to town and do all I can for you.
I should think Jordan and Co., when they
find your father won't pay, will meet you in
the matter of allowing you to exchange. You
see they have always some sort of hold upon
you while you are in the army, and if they
take that view of the case, well, my uncle.
Bob Braddock, can be once more of use to
you."

Charlie, who had betaken himself once
more to town, was only too delighted to
accept Bertie's offer; he was indeed mooning
about in a state of the utmost dejection,
afraid to show in his usual haunts, and without
the slightest idea of what steps he had
best take He had been very loth to appeal
to his father, but for all that it had never
occurred to him that his father would not

eventually come to his assistance. Blown
up, pitched into, and abused he had expected
to be, but he had fancied that three tempestuous
days at North Leach would have
brought matters to a satisfactory conclusion.
It might, perhaps, have been better had
Lettice been there to plead for him; but she
was still in London, and at the end of forty-eight
hours, despairing of making any impression
0]i his father's obduracy, he had
wended his way back to the metropolis.

Bertie Slade made his appearance in rapid
response to Charlie's appeal, and a long conference
took place between the pair forthwith.


It's a deuce of a mess, Charlie, and I'm
afraid you'll have to tumble down to infantry,"
remarked his mentor; ^'in fact, to
get on your feet again you will have to go on
your feet. I suppose there's not a chance of
the governor melting ? "

Not the slightest," replied young Devereux;
"on the contrary, just at present I

think he'd be rather pleased to hear I was
arrested."

'' Well," said his more knowing comrade,
I'm not quite certain that would not bethe
very best way out of your difficulties;
the sternest of parents are wont to relent a
bit under such circumstances, and, if they
are not in too great a hurry, the most grasping
of usurers will get a little anxious to
come to terms. The only thing is, that I'm
afraid we shouldn't save the commission, and
you don't want to cut soldiering, Charlie ? "

No," returned young Devereux, warmly,
I'm not one of those fellows who can turn
their hand to anything ; I shall never do
any good at anything else."

'' Well, we've no time to lose," said Bertie.
*' I'll just walk down and have a talk with
my uncle about it, and hear what he has got
to say; and then we'll trot down to the
agents, and tell them to look us out an
exchange. It will have to be to infantry,
though, if we're to make any money out of

it. There's deuced little difference between
cavalry in India and cavalry at home, just
now."

"Anything, so long as I have not to give
up the service," rejoined Charlie ; "I leave
all to you."

So Bertie Slade walked down to the ;
and, after a little, contrived to
come across his uncle.

'' Come to grief, already," exclaimed Major
Braddock, when he heard the story. " Hang
it ! I don't like proteges of mine going ofp
the rails quite so quick as that. However,
it seems, from what you tell me, the boy has
done no worse than make a born fool of
himself ; and the greater part of his folly
was committed before he joined. I'm sorry
for him, Bertie ; for he struck me as a nice
young fellow. But, you're quite right;
there's only one thing for him, and that is,
to exchange. He'll get a bit of money to
go into a line regiment, and we must turn
the screw on his father, and induce him to

pay up a bit for him. As for the exchange
part of it, you'll probably not want my help.
If there is any hitch about it, I'll do what I
can. I'll tell you what more I'll do. I'll
not only write myself, but I'll write to your
chief, and get him also to pen a letter to
old Mr. Devereux, urging him to do what
he can to save a promising young fellow
from having to give up a profession he was
made for. Tell the young one to keep up his
spirits, and let me know what you've done
about the exchange as soon as possible. In
the meantime, take my advice, get young
Devereux across the water as soon as maybe.
Let him wait at Bologna while we
arrange matters for him."

As Bertie Slade said, when he got back,
It was worth going to have a talk with
uncle Bob, Charlie. That last tip of his
was well worth having ; we shall make
much better terms with Jordan & Co. when
they find that you are beyond their reach."

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

o

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

SmZs
I

vL

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/saddlesabrenovel03sma

% lotus.

HAWLEY SMART

AUTHOR OF " BREEZIE LANGTON," "PROM POST TO FINISH,
"BAD TO BEAT," ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON : CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited



[All Rights reserved]

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

I 9 ?

v, 3

CONTEXTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I. page

There ALI THE DACOIT 1

CHAPTER II.

DOINGS ON THE KNAYESMIEE 21

CHAPTER III.

THE ST. LEGER 40

CHAPTER IV.

SINISTER RUMOURS 56

CHAPTER V.

MAJOR Kingston's RESOLVE 73

CHAPTER VI.

There ALI VANISHES 89

CHAPTER VII.

AN ENEMY HATH DONE THIS THING 105

CHAPTER VIII.

A MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING 123

CHAPTER IX.

Charlie's baptism of fire 141

CHAPTER X.

MRS. Kingston's DISAPPOINTMENT 161

CHAPTER XI. pace

"Good-bye, SWEETHEART, Good-bye" 175

CHAPTER XII.

HOBSON RECOVERS THE TRAIL 192

CHAPTER XIII.

FURZEDON LEAVES ENGLAND 209

CHAPTER XIV.

LET HIM BE GIVEN TO THE FLIES " . . . . 225

CHAPTER XV.

THE ROCKS OF RTJGGERBUND 241

CHAPTER XVI.

PRANCE'S VENGEANCE 258

CONCLUSION . . 273

CHAPTER I.

There ALI THE Dacia

wide sandy plain, out of which huge
boulders crop in various places, with a
torrid afternoon sun still blazing fiercely
down upon it — traversed, nevertheless, by a
broad but well-used highway, not far from
the side of which a tope of palm-trees marks
the presence of a spring. In this little oasis
of the sandy desert was a small encampment,
some half-dozen tents in all. From a
marquee, standing a little apart from the

VOL. III. B

others, emerges a thick-set, powerful man,
clothed in the grey kharkee uniform worn
by Her Majesty's troops in India when they
mean business ; that is to say, it is the dress
more especially set aside for campaigning —
a pith helmet, around which a puggaree of
many folds is twisted, crowned the mans
head. For a minute or two he gazed listlessly
around, then exclaimed, apparently
for the edification of somebody inside the
tent —

Phew ! how stifling hot it is — here, gf^
up, you lazy young beggar, the sun is beginning
to drop, and in another hour the
heat will become endurable. We may as
well get the horses and ride on to the edge
of this plain. Thank heavens ! we shall be
across it tomorrow."

By this time the other denizen of the
marquee had made his appearance. Like
the first, he is also clothed in grey kharkee,
and as he joined his companion remarks,
All right, Hobson, I am good for a ride

whenever you like ; but I am bound to say
this tacit-hunting is the dullest sport that
I ever embarked in. The beggars have no
idea of fighting, and they have walked us
pretty well off our legs in our endeavours to
bring them to book."

You are quite right," rejoined the
other, a veteran captain of rifles, who
had been marching and fighting all over
India for the last twenty years. " It is all
nonsense sending foot-soldiers after these
chaps ; cavalry or mounted infantry are the
only people to tackle them ; but you make
a mistake in one thing, Devereux : you will
find these fellows will fight like the very
devil if ever we do get them into a corner ;
but, like all robbers that I have ever heard
of, they naturally don't want to fight if they
can help it."

"I suppose," rejoined Charlie Devereux,

"this is the chronic state of India, and that

our principal employment is the suppression

of dacoits, guerillas, or by whatever fancy

b2

name these highway robbers think fit to
call themselves."

Well," rejoined Hobson, laughing, " I
won't say but what there is a little of it
always going on, but generally not more
than the police are able to cope with. What
makes them very bad in these parts is this.
It is some few years now since the Mutiny,
but these fellows are the dregs of that revolt.
You see, these are sepoy who were driven
to the jungle at that time ; their leaders are
men we should undoubtedly have hung if
we could have laid hands on them, and
they no doubt believe we shall do so still ;
but you need never be afraid in India that
you won't, see fighting — we have always a
little row going on somewhere."

Oh ! I'm not grumbling," rejoined
Charlie; " I only regret that our friends in
front are so confoundedly long in the leg."

"Well," rejoined Hobson, " I have got
one bit of good news for you: In consequence
of my strong representation that we were

marching our men to death, and are still
unable to come up with these fellows, we
have made an application to mount a company.
If it is only granted, I am to have
the command and organising of it ; and, on
the strength of your having been through
the riding-school, I will take you as one of
my subalterns, if you like."

Only too much obliged to you," rejoined
Charlie. " Bv Jove ! if we only set that,
we will deuced soon bring these beggars to
book then."

Yes," rejoined Hobson, " it would take
a very little while to organize them ; we
have only got to pick out the fellow r s who
can ride a bit, and they would be fit to go
anywhere in a month. We don't want
them drilled up to dragoon pattern. Ah !
here come the horses ; now for our afternoon
canter."

Some months have elapsed since Charlie
Devereux escaped from his native country.
The term "escape" is used advisedly, for

escape it was in the most rigid sense of the
word. When Major Braddock took a thing
in hand he was wont to go into it very
thoroughly. He had interested himself
about young Devereux in the first instance
at Bertie's request, but he took to the boy
kindly on his own account ; a young gentleman
who thus early displayed such delicate
perception of the art of dining was sure to
win his way to the Major's heart. Major
Braddock not only interested himself very
much about Charlie's exchange, but he also
interposed with some sound advice regarding
his affairs. The Major was a man of the
world, and had more than once, in his soldiering
days, intervened between the usurer
and his prey.

You are very good, I dare say, Bertie;
anybody, of course, can manage the young
idiot's affairs better than himself; but I
understand all this sort of thing better than
you do. The first thing is to get him out of
the country; when he is safe in India,

Jordan and Co. will be very glad to come to
terms ; of course they must have back the
money he actually borrowed, but we will
cut down the percentage pretty extensively.
Where is he now ? ,?

w In hiding, out at Hampstead," replied
Bertie.

Well, impress on his mind that he must
keep very close, and the sooner he is off the
better. He ought to be well on to his way
to India before he appears in the Gazette.
The minute they see that, Jordan and Co.
will understand our little game, and they
are safe to ferret him out if he remains in
this country."

In good truth the pursuit of Charlie
waxed very hot. Furzedon was ceaseless in
urging on his emissaries to effect his arrest.
He thought that, armed with this engine,
he might be able to carry his point with
Lettie. She knew that her brother was in
sore trouble, but it would come much more
home to her if she learnt that he was

actually arrested Surely, then, she would
not hesitate to rescue her favourite brother
from the toils of his creditors. Half her
world at this minute believed that she was
going to marry him, Furzedon. Let her
only promise to do so, and he would tear
up all these liabilities of Charlie's at once.
Surely, when she heard that he was actually
imprisoned, that his future as a soldier
would be ruined unless he was speedily
released, she would not hesitate. But to
put extreme pressure upon her it was absolutely
necessary that he should lay Charlie
Devereux by the heels, and so far his
emissaries had failed to trace him ever since
his escape from the barracks at York. Still
Furzedon looked upon it as a mere matter
of time. Devereux's friends apparently had
no intention of coming to his assistance.
Not the slightest overture had been made to
Jordan and Co. on his behalf from any one,
and this was a thing which caused Ralph
Furzedon no little satisfaction. People, he

knew, did not much care about paying fifteen
hundred pounds to rescue a young scapegrace
from the results of his own imprudence.
Still, if they chose, Furzedon knew
very well that either old Tom Devereux
or Mrs. Connop could discharge Charlie's
liabilities. But one thing Mr. Furzedon
had never thought of, and that was his
victim exchanging to a regiment on foreign
service. He was a man having no knowledge
of military matters, and that Charlie
Devereux might seek that way of extricating
himself from his difficulties never occurred
to him, so that when he read in the papers

th Rifles ; Cornet Charles Devereux,

from the Hussars, to be Ensign, vice

Rawlins who exchanges," it came upon him
like a revelation. Like the American philosopher,
he was inclined to exclaim, " Can
such things be ? " Like Shylock, he was
tempted to cry, " Is this law r " but, pulling
himself together, he remarked, " My dear
Devereux, I am afraid your joining your

new regiment will depend upon what answer
your charming sister makes to my suit."
He had yet to discover, that, when he
read Charlie's name in the Gazette, that
young gentleman was on board a P. and 0.
steamer, within a very few hours' sail of
Malta.

But when Purzedon realized that Devereux
had escaped his disappointment was
very great. It was not that he bore the
slightest animosity to his old college chum —
far from it ; if he had been working ill to
Charlie, it was all in furtherance of his
cherished design upon Lettice Devereux.
He was a man of great tenacity of purpose,
not easily to be turned from the pursuit of
any object he had set himself to attain, and
unscrupulous as to the means by which he
compassed his desire. If he had behaved to
Charlie after the manner of his kind it was
solely with the view of bending Lettice to
his will. He was not fond of losing money,
but it was not that. The disappointment

was in the fact that he found himself suddenly
deprived of what he considered the
strongest card in his hand — and he felt
assured that except under pressure of some
kind Miss Devereux would never consent to
be his bride. It was curious that when he
first sought her hand he admired her, but
was not at all in love with her, and now,
despite the knowledge that he had not
found favour in her sight, he was wild to
marry her. Such was the man's indomitable
will, that he did not even yet despair of
bringing that about, but he was conscious
that a very powerful inducement was now
withdrawn from his grasp.

As for Charlie Devereux, it had been with
a sad heart that he steamed out of Southampton
Waters. He knew that he ought
to consider himself very fortunate to have
got out of his scrape so far as well as he
had — to have saved the commission was of
course a great thing, and as Bertie said to
him at parting, " When your affairs have

got square, well, you must manage to exchange
back to us," and this comforted
Charlie not a little, although he knew that
it might be by no means easy to accomplish.
But he was very sad for all that at leaving
his old comrades and the regiment whose
gay jacket he had donned so proudly buta
few months back. Well, he Alas young,
India was all new to him — and he must just
make the best of things. He found his
new comrades a right good lot of fellows,
and frankly admitted that they were so ;
but still his sympathies were all with the
regiment he had left. A soldier should
always believe his own corps to be the
very best in the service, and however he
may wander about the Army List he usually
retains a strong feeling for the regiment
under whose colours he first served.

Then again, there was no doubt that
Charlie found his new corps engaged in a
most monotonous and depressing duty ; for
the suppression of these dacoits the corps

was broken up into small divisions. It
was really arduous police duty, from which
there was no honour to be gained, but in
which there was a good deal of roughing it
and weary marching ; nothing is more irksome
than the pursuit of such light-footed
marauders as the troops engaged in stamping
out the embers of the great Mutiny
found to their sorrow. Charlie's soldiering
at home had been of the sunniest description.
Quartered in one of the pleasantness
cities in England, with excellent hunting
close by, and the metropolis within an easy
distance, his experiences had been very
different to the monotonous life he was now
living; not that he cared about the hardwork,
but there was a want of excitement
about it all that he felt so terribly.

Never mind, young 'un," said Hobson,
when his subaltern indulged in a hearty
growl at the dulness of their present existence,
"it won't last for ever; these fellows
are either getting used up or dispersed;

though our detachment has never had the
good fortune to come up with them; still,
you know, we hunt them into other people's
hands, and if you have any luck you will
throw in for a very pretty scrimmage yet
before it is all over. Eroni what my scouts
tell me, we have got a stag royal in front
of us — a fellow who was a man of mark in
the Mutiny times — one of Tantia Toper's
ablest lieutenants, and what is more he is
at the head of a pretty strong band ; now
that fellow don't want to fight, but you may
depend upon it that whoever does come up
with him will find him a stiff nut to crack."

"By Jove, this is getting rather exciting,"
said the other; "of course we shall beat him."

Oh yes," rejoined Hobson, " we always
do, odds or no odds ; all I mean is it won't
be a walk over."

So much the better." rejoined Charlie,
who like all young soldiers was just a little
bloodthirsty ; " I am keen to see something
of fighting in earnest."

"Well, if we chance to come up with
Shere Ali he is safe to indulge you : he is
fighting with a rope round his neck, for,
though his sins of the Mutiny time might
be condoned, yet he has been guilty of too
many outrages in the tacit way, since, to
hope for pardon."

They rode on now for some time in silence,
each immersed in his own thoughts ;
Hobson gravely considering how he is to
get the best of this ubiquitous robber, Shere
Ali, upon whose trail you had no sooner
got than he speedily vanished to be heard
of only again in some other part of the
district. Government had decreed that this
man should be stamped out like any other
vermin, and the ex-soubahdar most richly
deserved it. Since he had proved false to
his salt he had shown all that tiger ferocity
characteristic of the Asiatic when he gets the
upper hand. He had been one of the most
ruthless lieutenants of Tantia Toper, and
since he had become a leader of dacoits had

distinguished himself by the most unrelenting
hostility to the Eeringhee ; such
Englishmen, and it was whispered even
Englishwomen, who had the misfortune to
fall into his hands, had met with scant
mercy. This man's hands, it was known,
were as deeply imbued in blood as Nana
Sahib's, or any of the other savage chiefs
who sprang to the front at the time of the
great Mutiny. He was quite aware that
there was small hope for him should he fall
into the hands of the English, and had
vowed to wage a war of implacable hostility
against the white men.

Charlie's thoughts, on the contrary, reverted
to the old country, and the life he
had left behind him; — what a fool he had
been ! What a pleasant career was opened
before him but for those miserable gambling
debts of his old Cambridge days.
He had not heard so often from home ashe
had expected; and, strangest thing of
all, Lettie had never said a word of her

approaching marriage. But, he had also
heard from Mrs. Kynaston, and that lady,
though alluding to it somewhat vaguely,
quite conveyed the idea that the engagement
still existed ; and Charlie, who, bear
in mind, was wholly ignorant of the seamy
side of Ralph Eurzedon's life, saw no
reason why, if Lettie fancied him, it should
not be. From Bertie Slade he had also
heard but briefly, though satisfactorily :
In the end, Charlie," said Bertie, " your
affairs, I have no doubt, will be thoroughly
arranged ; but your father places implicit
reliance on my uncle Bob. Now the Major,
you know, is a bit of a martinet, and contends
that a decent dose of purgatory should
precede the killing of the fatted calf for the
prodigal : ' There is nothing like giving
these young sinners a tolerable spell of discomfort
before you re-establish them ; leave
the boy out there for a bit, Mr. Devereux,
to enjoy the sport of tacit-hunting, out of
which there is not a laurel to be gathered,

VOL. III. c

but which involves plenty of work and hard
knocks. Besides, it will make it all the
easier to arrange matters with Jordan & Co.
If they think you are ready to settle all
your son's liabilities right off they will insist
on a settlement in full. If, on the contrary,
they see we are in no hurry, they will abate
their terms considerably. The longer we
wait, the less they will take. Let him stay
out in India until he gets his lieutenancy,
a matter, probably, of two or three years ;
and then, I think, we shall find Jordan &
Co. likely to listen to reason.' It is good
sound advice, Charlie ; and, though the
conveying of robbers all over the country
is not quite our idea of active service, still
I can fancy with what a will you'll go for
them when you do catch 'em."

By this time they had reached the edge
of the plain, and were now apparently entering
a wooded country, at the back of which
lay the regular jungle. They were about to
dismount from their horses, when " crack "

went three or four rifles, and as many bullets
whistled past their ears. Instantly
Hobson, wheeling his steed about, and with
a cry, " Ride for it, Charlie," set spurs to
his horse. Young Devereux followed his
example ; though, as he did so, he felt something
like a hot iron just graze his arm.
\Yhen he had gone three or four hundred
yards Hobson pulled up his horse, and,
turning round, deliberately surveyed the
spot from whence the fire had come.

By Jove, Charlie," he exclaimed, " we
rode right into the wasps' nest, and it is
deuced lucky for us, I fancy, that we rather
surprised them ; if they had only exercised
their usual cunning, we should have been
either dead or prisoners by this."

See," replied Charlie, " there are about a
dozen of the beggars on the edge of the
wood looking at us."

Yes," replied Hobson, "it is confoundedly
unlucky that we should have come upon them
as we did ; they will know, of course, that
c2

we have soldiers with us, and before we can
get back to camp, or even start, that fellow
Shere Ali will have had up sticks and
decamped in some other direction. It is
thundering unlucky. We really had a
chance to come up with him to-night ; but,
hullo ! young man, they have barked you."

"Just a graze," replied Charlie, " but
nothing of any consequence ; but what will
you do now ?" "Oh! we must just get back
to camp as quick as we can, and then start in
pursuit of our friends ; my only hope is that,
by perpetually harrying them, we shall drive
Shere Ali straight into the hands of one of
the other parties out in pursuit of him ;"
and with that, Hobson put his horse into a
gallop, and the pair made their way back to
camp as speedily as might be.

CHAPTER II.

DOINGS ON THE KNAVESMIRE.

We must now go back a little bit in this
history to see how events have fared with
people in England. Gilbert Slade had been
very little in London since that famous
Derby, which had utterly broke Devereux.
He had run up for a week to help Charlie
with his advice in the arrangement of his
affairs, and he had also come up for a few
days to see him off and bid him God speed
on his departure for India, which had taken
place about the end of July ; otherwise
Gilbert Slade had seen nothing of London
that year. He had called upon nobody
during those brief visits. He was up strictly

on business, and had no wish to advertise
his presence in the metropolis. He had
never made his appearance in Onslow Gardens,
nor, sorely to the disappointment of
Mrs. Kynaston, had she ever set eyes upon
him since that brief visit he paid her in
May. With every reason to believe in
Miss Devereux's engagement with Furzedon,
Bertie had thought it useless to call on Mrs.
Connop. Twice he had done so during that
Derby week, and upon each occasion had
been met with a " not at home." He had
come to the conclusion that this was a distinct
intimation that they wished to see no
more of him. While he was making up his
mind, another had stepped in and carried
off the prize. If it had only been any other
than Eurzedon he could have borne it better,
but that, even with all his money, Miss
Devereux could marry such a man as that
was incomprehensible in Bertie's eyes ; but
it was all over now, and for the present, as
men do under such circumstances, Gilbert

Slade thoroughly realized the hollowness of
London society. One morning in September,
shortly before the Doncaster races,
Bertie received a letter from his uncle
Norman, in which he said " I shall be at
York this week for a couple of nights ; I
shall stay at the ' Black Swan, 5 and shall
throw myself upon your hospitality for
dinner ; your regiment has the reputation
of doing that sort of thing rather well, and
I have no doubt you can make up a rubber
for me afterwards. An hotel coffee-room is
rather a dull place to put in an evening
alone."

Give uncle Norman a dinner ! I should
rather think so," muttered Bertie to himself
on reading this note, " I would put him
up for a whole week, and be only too glad todo
so ; but I am puzzled as to what brings
him to York just now. Uncle Norman at
York during the races is natural enough, but
uncle Norman at York the second week in
September is a mystery." However, whatever

might be Norman Slade's object in
turning up in the great city of the north,
his nephew took care that there should be a
note for him at the (( Black Swan," saying
that he should be only too glad to see him
every day during his stay ; and that if it
would be the slightest convenience he could
put him up very comfortably to boot. In due
course Norman Slade turned up at the mess

of the th Hussars, and was regarded

with due reverence by the younger members
of that sporting regiment as a sort of incarnation
of all Turf knowledge, and a man
who, if he chose, could make wondrous
revelations on the subject of races past,
present, and to come. When he chose, as
we know, Norman could make himself extremely
pleasant, and upon this occasion he
won golden opinions. The Colonel, in particular,
was enchanted with his guest, who
manifested the greatest possible interest in
the regiment. One thing especially was he
curious in, and that was, would he have an

opportunity of seeing the regiment out ?
Did they not exercise on the Knavesmire in
the early mornings at times ?

Yes," replied the Colonel, " but we are
not so very early — during this hot weather
we begin at seven, and so get our drill over
before the heat of the day."

Then," rejoined Norman, " if I am on
the Knavesmire sharp seven, I shall be intime
to see your fellows exercise."

In plenty of time, Mr. Slade," said the
Colonel ; " indeed, a quarter past will be
quite time enough. If you will allow me I
will have a horse there already for you."

You are very good," rejoined Norman,
"but I have no doubt Bertie can manage
all that for me " — to which speech Bertie
returned a somewhat bewildered assent.

Very good, then," replied the Colonel;
and now, Mr. Slade, if you won't take anymore
wine, what do you say to a rubber and
a cigar?"

11 1 should like it of all things," replied

the other, rising. Norman Slade, indeed,
had astonished Her Majesty's — th Hussars
not a little. Although Bertie had given a
hint to the chief and some of his own immediate
chums that his uncle was not given to
racing talk, they could not believe that a
man who occupied such a leading position
on the Turf should absolutely abstain from
the slightest allusion to that sport, either in
the past or the present ; while Bertie on his
part was just as much astonished at the extraordinary
interest his uncle had suddenly
developed in military matters. "I can
understand," said Bertie, to one of his
chums, "his not talking Turf— he never
does — I can understand his preferring a
dinner with us and a rubber afterwards to
the solitude of the ' Black Swan,' but his
wanting to see the regiment out beats me
altogether. I never knew my uncle before
take the faintest interest in soldiering, and
should have just as soon thought of asking
him to the regimental ball as to a regimental

field-day." However, after a couple of partis
at whist, Norman Slade rose to take his
departure, simply remarking, " These early
hours in the morning, Colonel, require
correspondingly early hours at night," and
then, thanking his host for a very pleasant
evening, Norman Slade stepped into his fly
and was driven back to his hotel.

The morning came, and seven o'clock saw
the — th Hussars filing through the gate
that led on to the Knavesmire; that passed,
they formed up, and at once commenced the
morning's drill. Bertie's servant with a
horse was left at the gate, with instructions
to await the arrival of Mr. Slade, who was
to drive out from York in a fly. Soon the
Hussars were skirmishing, charging, and
going through all manner of evolutions, and
more than once both the Colonel's and
Bertie's eyes wandered about in search of
their pleasant guest of the night before.
But there was not a sign of Norman Slade,
and as they once more filed through the

gate — their morning's work over — on their
way back to barracks, Bertie's servant-assured
them that the gentleman had never
put in an appearance. It was incomprehensible.
It seemed impossible that there
could have been any mistake — and yet what
could have become of Norman Slade ? He
was, apparently, most anxious last night to
see the regiment out in the morning, and
yet, although a horse had been brought
there expressly for him, although he had
been told the exact time and everything
else, he had never put in an appearance;
neither the Colonel nor Bertie ould perceive
how it was possible that a mistake
could have occurred. In the course of the
morning a note was brought to Bertie in
which his uncle said that he was unfortunately
prevented coming out to the
Knavesmire that morning, and, more unlucky
still, that business required him to
leave York that morning for the north by
the eleven train. " Make my apologies to

the Colonel for not turning up this morning,
and, if you can, meet me at the station a
little before the train starts." It was all
very mysterious ; however, Bertie at once
determined that there was only one thing to
be done, and that was to meet his uncle as
suggested, and say good-bye to him.

At a quarter before eleven Bertie Slade
made his appearance at the York station,
where he found his uncle already pacing up
and down the platform. " Why, what on
earth became of you, uncle Norman, this
morning? we were all on the look-out for
you on the Knavesmire, and never saw
you."

Norman's eyes twinkled at his nephew's
speech. "No," he said, " you were a little
late for me. I had gone home before you
came."

"What on earth do you mean?" ejaculated
the other speaker.

"I mean this," said Norman. "I had
ascertained that you fellows were given to

early drills on the Knavesmire, and I had
the hest of all possible reasons for wishing to
know exactly when you would be there."

I don't understand," said Bertie.

Well, my dear boy, I tried B disarms for
the Leger this morning, and I didn't want the
whole of Her Majesty's — th Hussars to be
present at the trial — do you understand
now, Bertie?" Bertie's answer was simply
a roar of laughter, and then he exclaimed,
Sold us all, by Jove ! I hope it was
satisfactory? "

"I will say no more, but it is good enough
for you to stand in a pony with me — they
got at the man last time, but I will take
deuced good care that they don't this."

Yes, I heard something about this in
London, and, what is more, happened to get
at the names of two of the principal winners
over the defeat of Belisarius."

What are their names ? " inquired Slade
sharply.

Major Kynaston and a Mr. Eurzedon —

both men I have met and don't think much
of. Didn't you hear a rumour that Bill
Smith was given a drugged glass of wine in
the Paddock after he got up ? "

Hear the rumour!" exclaimed Norman
Slade excitedly. " I saw it done, and,
though I don't know him, could swear to
the man that gave it. I know all about
Kynaston, he is rather a shy card, but I
don't think that he would go the length of
hocussing a jockey ; besides, I will swear he
was not the man who handed that glass to
Bill. As for Eurzedon, I never saw him —
but here is my train — we must have some
more talk about this — mind you come to
Doncaster."

All right, uncle, I will come up to see
Belisarius have another shy. Eurzedon will
most likely be there, and, if so, I will point
him out to you."

il Do," said Norman, " and if I can work
the thing out 1 will bring the whole case
before the Jockey Club. Once more, goodbye,"
and the two cordially shook hands.

Norman Slade as he sped rapidly back to
Belton Wold pondered a good deal over
what Bertie had just told him. True, he
had seen that fatal glass given to Bill Smith
in the Paddock at Epsom ; had he uot interfered
and insisted upon drinking a glass out
of the same bottle ? That wine was not
drugged, or he also must have felt the
effects of it, and, if Smith in accordance with
his besetting weakness had been unable to
withstand the temptation of a glass too
much, then there would be no call for the
interference of the Jockey Club in the
matter. An intemperate man had failed to
keep sober in order to ride his own horse in
the great race of the year, and there was no
more to be said. It was of more moment to
him, Bill Smith, than any one, and as for
the misguided public who chose to pin their
faith on a drunken jockey trainer they had
only themselves to blame for their exceeding
folly.

This time Norman Slade and Sir Ronald
had determined not to let the bibulous Bill

out of their guardianship. They knew from
bitter experience that when once he had
broken out and given way to drink he got
beyond all control, but that if carefully
watched over from the first it was possible
to restrain him. It was during that unlucky
week when neither Norman Slade nor
Sir Ronald had been able to keep guard over
him that Bill Smith got so completely out
of hand before Epsom, but this time there
had been no relaxation of vigilance. Norman
Slade had taken up his abode at Bel-latin
immediately after Goodwood, and Sir
Ronald had also been a frequent visitor.
Bill Smith had never been left by himself
for some weeks past, and, though there was
no such golden harvest to be reaped at
Doncaster as might have been gathered at
Epsom, still both Slade and the baronet had
managed to back Belisarius for the St.
Leger to win themselves a nice stake. Although
the racing fraternity knew, that, as
far as Smith's horse went, the Derby run-vol.

III. D

king was not to be relied on, yet the general
public only knew that Belisarius had been
well beaten in the big race. Rumours of
course there were that his rider had been
drunk, but then excuses were always made
for a prominent favourite when he failed
to realise the expectations formed of him,
and so, though the bookmakers would offer
no great price against the north-country
horse, in consequence of the public not
fancying him, the odds against him were
larger than might have been expected.

Another thing too that still further expanded
the price at which Belisarius stood
for the great Doncaster race was due in
part to accident, and in part to a piece of
Turf strategy suggested by Norman Slade.
Fearing that the horse-watchers who infested
Belton Wold should get knowledge
of their proceedings, Slade had suggested
that the trial of Belisarius just previous to
the St. Leger should take place at York,
and this manoeuvre had been attended with

complete success. Belisarius had been
tried over the Knavesmire, and acquitted
himself to the entire satisfaction of all connected
with him, and, what is more, without
any of the few spectators being a bit the
wiser, they indeed being unaware of what
horses they were; whilst there occurred
another thing which Slade had not foreseen,
namely, that the horse-watchers of Belton
Wold telegraphed to their employers that
Belisarius had not left his stable, which to
the racing world meant that there was
something amiss with him. When a horse is
stopped in his work a week before a big
engagement it is usually the presage of his
defeat, and consequently it was not surprising
that the bookmakers extended their
offers against Belisarius. Flushed by the
successful issue of the trial, Slade and Sir
Ronald took this opportunity of again backing
the horse on more favourable terms, the
Baronet in particular laying out a considerable
sum of money to — as he said — recoup
d 2

him for his Epsom disappointment ; and a
few days later saw the little coterie on the
Doncaster Town Moor, trusting to see
Belisarius redeem his laurels.

The Wednesday dedicated to the great race
of the North came at last and saw Bertie
Slade and several of his brother officers all
bound for Doncaster. " If you fellows want
to bet," said Bertie, " you had better wait till
I have seen my uncle, and, if he says
Belisarius and his jockey are all right, I
think you will find him good enough to
have a flutter on!" and it was accordingly
settled amongst that little band of Hussars,
that, if Norman Slade spoke favourably,
they should ail indulge in a joint plunge
upon that noble animal. Bertie, indeed,
had been unable during the railway journey
to resist explaining the cause of his uncle
Norman's sudden interest in cavalry manoeuvres.
" Couldn't make it out at all,"
said Bertie; "his military knowledge goes
no further than just knowing a horse-soldier

from an infantry man" — and then Bertie
told his story — which elicited roars of
laughter. Arrived at the course, Bertie
made his way straight to the Paddock,
where, as he rightly conjectured, he found
his uncle.

u You will have a good run for your
money to-day," said Norman, as they shook
hands ; " both horse and man are thoroughly
fit, and I think you will see that the Two
Thousand form was right, and not the
Derby."

"All right! Excuse me, I'll be back ina
minute, but I promised to let some of our
fellows know if you fancied Belisarius."

Tell them I do," rejoined Norman
curtly.

Bertie hurried across the Paddock and
told that little syndicate that had been
formed in the train that they might commence
operations at once; that his uncle
thought Belisarius would about win; that
it was the jockey not the horse who lost the

race at Epsoru, and that this time Bill
Smith was sober as the traditional judge.
As Bertie made his way hack again he met
Eurzedon, who would have fain stopped and
spoken, but Bertie passed him with a nonchalant
nod, and rejoined his uncle.

I told you Eurzedon would be at Doncaster.
I have just met him. I will point
him out to you presently."

Ah, do," replied Norman Slade. " I
should like to see him. Bill Smith still
sticks to it that last glass of wine he had
was drugged. He admits he was the worse
for liquor, but declares that he was hocussed
to boot. Now, I know he was drunk and
that the wine in that bottle was not doctored,
for I drank a glass of it. Of course
it does not follow that there was not something
dropped into Smith's glass, but I cannot
prove it."

Surely some of the gang with the giver
of that last glass were privy to it if it was
so?"

No doubt," said Norman; "but I don't
know how to get at them."

u Whenever a lot of scoundrels have been
engaged in a transaction of this sort one
of them is safe to turn Queen's evidence,"
said Bertie. " The story is safe to come to
your ears before long ; but here comes our
man. That's Eurzedon, uncle Norman."

By Heavens, the very fellow ; that's the
man who handed Bill Smith the glass of
wine in the Epsom paddock "

And was one of the largest winners
over the defeat of Belisarius," commented
Bertie.

CHAPTER III,

THE ST. LEGER.

Spurred on by his hatred of Purzedon, Mr.
Prance has been untiring in his endeavours
to unravel the whole history of Belisarius's
defeat at Epsom; or, to speak more properly,
of the drugging of Bill Smith, which
led to it. The story was current enough
amongst the lower order of professional
racing-men ; and Prance had, with some
little trouble, got at the names of the very
men who had been employed to ply the
reckless jockey with liquor. It was not difficult
to scrape an acquaintance with them,
and Prance speedily ascertained that they
conceived themselves to have been by no

means liberally dealt with by Furzedon, and
were quite willing to tell all they knew to anyone
who would make it worth their while.
This question of money, however, put an
insurmountable bar to further investigation
for the present, although Mr. Prance anticipated
no difficulty about procuring the requisite
funds when he should deem it expedient
to launch his thunderbolt against the
object of his detestation. He was quite
aware that he must get hold of somebody of
standing and position to bring forward such
a charge as this. No one would even listen
to such a story from the lips of a nameless
vagrant like himself; and he thought that
whoever he induced to take up the case
would make no demur to finding the necessary
funds to unloose the tongues of his
witnesses. He had, in the first instance,
fixed upon Sir Donald Radcliffe as the instrument
of his vengeance. He knew that
the Baronet had lost a considerable sum by
the overthrow of Belisarius ; and his status

as a racing-man made him a very fit person
to take up the case. He had found no difficulty
in attaining access to Sir Ronald ; for,
like Major Kynaston, that sporting gentleman
was accustomed to receive strange
visitors; but the interview had proved by
no means satisfactory.

I don't believe your story' rejoined the
philosophical and somewhat cynical Baronet.
You say you have witnesses who demand
to be paid before they will testify. As
Shakespeare hath it, ' that makes against
you'; but, secondly, we'll suppose it all
true, what the devil does it all matter tome
? The race was lost, and our money has
been paid. Whether Bill Smith was drunk,
or drugged, or both, makes but little difference.
Pooh ! my good fellow, I'm not going
to trouble myself with unearthing a dead
scandal like this. Your best chance is to
try and drive a bargain with a sporting
newspaper ; it might suit them to buy it all
up as copy for the dead season, now fast

approaching. That will do, my good fellow !
Your narrative has no interest for me."
Mr. Prance walked down the staircase of
Sir Ronald's house considerably depressed
in spirits. He had counted confidently on
the Baronet at once taking up the case
hotly. He forgot that Sir Ronald had no
personal vengeance to gratify, and that the
race was, as he says, a thing of the irrevocable
past, the which there was no undoing ;
and now Mr. Prance was non-passed to
whom to apply. He knew Norman Slade
by name; but Norman was a man who
was seldom a prominent figure on a racecourse.
He passed most of his time in the
Paddock, and was given to looking on at
a race from the trainers' stand — inner precincts
which impecunious vagabonds like
Prance are not privileged to enter. He had
had a tolerably successful year, and, in consequence,
was in possession of more money
than usual; still it was a firm part of his
scheme that his vengeance should be carried

out at some one else's expense : and when
Mr. Prance arrived at Doncaster he by no
means saw his way towards this.

He was wandering vaguely down the
course, trying to make up his mind as to
whether he should invest his stake on B disarms,
whom two or three of his fraternity
had informed him would be sure to reverse
the Epsom running. More prudent he
thought to wait till he saw Bill Smith in the
saddle and could assure himself that the
jockey was fit to ride, when suddenly his eye
fell on a cardboard ticket close to his feet.
Mr. Prance at once pounced on it — it was
probably, he thought, an admission to the
Stand ; lie was not far wrong, but instead
of the Stand it was a ticket for the Paddock.
Most racing-men are more or less
superstitious, and Prance hailed this bit of
luck as a good augury, and without more ado
made his way to that privileged inclosure
which of late years he had never penetrated.
It was the very thing he wanted. He would

doubtless see Bill Smith inside, as well as
the horse, and be able to judge for himself
of their condition. Once inside the Paddock
Prance had no difficulty in finding what he
wanted. Belisarius was walking up and
down, and round him were gathered a
little knot, two of whom Prance at once
recognised. One was the famous north-country
jockey, and upon this occasion
there could be no doubt that he was in a
very different state from that in which he
had appeared at Epsom ; the other was Sir
Ronald Radcliffe ; the remainder of the
group were unknown to Prance, though
the keen, dark, saturnine features of Norman
Slade were not easy to forget by any one
who had once seen them. Mr. Prance's
mind was at once made up upon one point,
to wit, that Belisarius was worth backing
to-day ; but, as the saddling-bell had not
yet rung, there was plenty of time for that,
and Mr. Prance took advantage of his good
fortune to inquire the names of such notabilities

as were unknown to him by sight ;
most especially anxious, for example, to
know all those in that group of which Bill
Smith was the centre. There were plenty
of people there who could tell him who
Norman Slade was, and Prance became at
once deeply interested in that gentleman.
Could this be the man he was looking for ?
It is a stern, unforgiving face, thought
Prance. A man little likely to forgive
those who had done aught to his detriment.
He never recollected having seen him before,
but he had heard him spoken of; he
knew that he was a great supporter of Bill
Smith, and he further knew that he was
a loser over the Derby. Perhaps he could
induce this Mr. Slade to take up the
case against Purzedon. At all events he
must try, for he could think of no one else
now that Sir Ronald had failed him. However,
it would be time enough to think of
all this after the race. If there should be
no opportunity, as was most likely, of telling

Mr. Slade the whole story at Doncaster,
he would doubtless be enabled to obtain
access to him in London. At all events, he
would find out where he lived and whether
he was willing to help him wreak his
vengeance on Purzedon. Mr. Prance was a
man of decision ; he dashed out of the Paddock,
and, making his way to the outer ring,
at once made his investment on Belisarius,
and then sought some coign of vantage
from which to see the race. The St. Leger
of that year only proved to the backers
of Belisarius how their money had been
thrown away at Epsom, and the story of the
race may be told in very few words. Bill
Smith, on his favourite battle-ground, and
upon this occasion strictly sober, occupied a
prominent position all the way up to the
Bed House turn, and no sooner was he
round that than he took his horse to the
front, was never again reached, and landed
Belisarius a winner by a good three lengths.
Ah ! " exclaimed Mr. Prance, as he

jumped off the rough stand, for the occupation
of a foot-hold on which he had been
mulcted of the sum of one shilling, " if
that don't make Sir Eonald and Mr. Slade
feel heavenly I don't know what will.
When they think of all the money that
ought to have gone into their pockets last
May, and remember that it went out instead,
they must surely feel rather wolfish
about it, and he hungry to punish the man
who hocussed their jockey. Mr. Slade at
all events, don't look one of the forgiving
sort."

No sooner had he been paid his winnings
than Prance once more repaired to the Paddock
with the object of getting speech with
Norman Slade, which he thought, the big
race being satisfactorily got through with,
would be now easy to accomplish. The
racecourse, as Mr. Punch once observed of
the hunting-field, " brings people together
who would not otherwise meet" and certainly
affords opportunity to such men as Prance

to address their betters if they can only
come across them, and this the fortunate
finding of the Paddock-ticket had placed
within that worthy's power. Bill Smith's
triumph had been received with very moderate
cheering, and not with that "Yorkshire
roar " with which the big county was
wont to proclaim the victory of the North
over the South country horses. Too many
of the Tykes had suffered over the Epsom
business to feel much enthusiasm about the
success of Belisarius on the Town Moor,
and Bill Smith was not a little nettled at
missing the ovation which usually greeted
his winning the St. Leger. Even the impassive
Sir Ronald could not suppress a
groan as he thought of that lost golden
opportunity on Epsom Downs.

The baronet, however, having congratulated
Bill Smith on his victory, speedily
returned to the Grand Stand to chat over
the race with his friends, and speculate on
the following events, and this gave Prance

VOL. III. E

the opening he wanted. He did not wish to
speak before Sir Ronald, but no sooner was
the baronet's back turned than he walked
up to Norman, and touching his hat said,
Can I have a word with you, Mr. Slade?"

Accustomed to be addressed on a racecourse
not unfrequently by persons of whom
he had no knowledge, Norman replied
curtly, " All right, what is it ?"

"You saw what won to-day, sir. You
know what ought to have won at Epsom."

If you have merely to tell me that
Belisarius ought to have won the Derby,
but didn't, because his jockey was drunk,
you are a little behind-hand with a well-known
story. All the world's known that
for some time."

Bill Smith was more than drunk, sir ; he
was drugged. You know the man that did
it, for I'm told you saw it done."

I saw him given that last glass of wine
in the Paddock — if you mean that. I suspected
it might be so, and I insisted on

having a glass out of the same bottle. I
know it was not changed for I never took
my eye off it — that wine was not drugged ! "

Not the wine you drank, sir, but the
wine Bill Smith drank was ! They didn't
change the bottle, but they did the glass."

You know that ? You can prove what
you assert ?"

I can prove it, sir," replied Prance.
This Eurzedon was one of the heaviest
layers against Belisarius for the Derby. I
can bring you the men he employed to make
Smith drunk, but at the last moment his
nerve failed him, and he was afraid that
would not be sufficient to prevent the horse
winning. He ordered them to drug him
besides, but they were afraid to do that, and
so at the last moment he was compelled todo
the hocussing himself. Of course they
were with him, and helped him, and saw
the phial emptied into the glass. Surely,
sir, such a robbery as this ought to be
exposed!"

E 2

LIBRARY

UWVERSJTY OF ILLINOIS

A queer smile flitted around Slade' s
mouth as he replied, " And these friends of
yours would be willing to give evidence
confirmatory of all this, I presume?"

Certainly, they would, if they thought
there was any probability of the case being
taken up; but they are poor men, Mr.
Slade."

Ah ! and don't speak unless they are
paid for it," interrupted Norman, sharply.
"Now, sir! first of all, what's your name?
and secondly, why do you come to me at
this time of day ?"

To begin with, my name is Prance, and
secondly, it took me a long time to collect
the proofs of what I only suspected."

u Good ! " rejoined Slade, u it looks a
little to me as if you and your confederates,
having made all that you possibly could out
of a successful conspiracy, are now exceedingly
anxious to put the coping-stone on
your villainy by selling your employer."
I give you my word, Mr. Slade, that I

had nothing to do with it, and knew nothing
about what was being done till after the
race," rejoined Prance, earnestly.

Then what the deuce is your object incoming
to me ?" said Norman, sharply.

For a second Prance hesitated, then, as
an almost demoniacal expression spread
across his countenance, he hissed between
his teeth.

"I /mfePurzedon!"

Slade looked at him for a moment, and
then exclaimed, almost involuntarily, " By
heaven, he is speaking the truth now."

Yes ! " continued Prance, in a voice
hoarse with passion, "you gentlemen think
that we poor devils care for nothing but
money, but there's one thing that comes
far before money to most men — revenge !
Eurzedon has ruined me ! struck me ! desolated
my home ! and for years I have lived
only to be revenged upon him ! "

"That will do for the present," replied
Slade quietly; "if you can prove what you

say, and I take this case up, I think, socially
speaking, you will about attain your end."

Yes," replied Prance, " and I have a
good deal more to tell you about him than
that. He passes in the world as a wealthy,
well-to-do gentleman ; in reality he is only
a money-lender."

Give me your address," rejoined Slacle,
and as he spoke Norman took his betting-book
from his pocket, and carefully noted
down Mr. Prance's town residence. " I
have no time to go into the matter here, but
I will write to you in London, and if I am
satisfied with the proofs you produce and that
your story is bond fide, I think I can at all
events promise you that Mr. Purzedon will
be warned off the Turf, and be no longer
received in decent society."

Thank you, sir," and touching his hat
Mr. Prance accepted his dismissal, and with
an exultant heart vanished into the crowd.

As for Norman Slade he paced up and down
in the Paddock, revolving the whole story in

his mind for some minutes. He had vowed
if he could but get proof of this thing to
follow up the matter to its bitter end, and
here was proof ready to his hand, if Prance's
tale was to be trusted. This scoundrel
Purzedon, moreover, was figuring in society,
and had actually forced an acquaintance
upon Bertie Slade, his — Norman's — nephew.
Now it was high time the disguise was
torn off this impostor. This fraudulent
money-lender should be shown up in his
true colours, and, if he was beyond the reach
of the ordinary law, he was still open to the
judgment of the Turf Senate, and if when
the facts were brought before them they
should think fit to pass sentence, Mr. Purses
would find that there were mal-practices
in racing that could not be committed with
impunity.

CHAPTER IV.

SINISTER RUMOURS.

Charlie's exile is a source of sore trouble
to Lettie Devereux, and of infinite mortification
to her aunt. They both, perhaps,
unduly exulted at that young scapegrace's
appointment to the — th Hussars. They
had been so proud of their young dragoon !
and now that was all over. He was in a
far country, engaged in what was apparently
little better than police work. Mrs. ,
indeed, had been so melted by what
she called the misfortunes of her favourite
nephew that she had been ready to contribute
very handsomely towards extricating
him from his difficulties; if her brother

would furnish two-thirds of the requisite
money, she would find the remainder ; hut
old Tom Devereux, taking counsel from
shrewd and worldly Major Braddock, was
obstinate. Charlie had made his own bed,
and must lie on it. Major Braddock was by
no means averse to welcoming a return of
the prodigal in due season ; but what he did
object to was a premature mincing of veal
in his behalf.

No such schoolmaster as experience''
quoth the Major. " Let him feel thoroughly
for a time the change of position his folly
has cost him. Let him discover what slow
work levying dacoits is compared to a
gallop with the York and Ainsty ! and, by
the Lord ! sir, let him know the difference
of living on his rations and dinner at the
mess of his old regiment."

So Lettie had to make up her mind that a
long time would pass before she should see
her favourite brother again. That he was
dissatisfied with his lot she felt certain,

although there was not the slightest complaint
in any one of his letters ; but there
was a want of go in his correspondence very
different from the bright, cheery epistles of
yore ; very different from the letters he had
written from the University, or those he
penned when he first joined his regiment at
York : once only had he been betrayed into
impatience of his present life, and that was
when he said (i that he only wished that he
had better work to do than that he had been
employed in." Another thing, too, which
considerably discomposed Miss Devereux
was that Gilbert Slade seemed to have totally
disappeared from her ken. She not
only never met him, she never even heard
of him now. She was back again at North
Leach, and, indeed, had been for some time;
but how different it all was from the winter
before ! when Charlie was looking forward to
joining his regiment at York, and bringing
back Bertie Slade with him to wind up the
season by a last fortnight with the ;

and then Lettie thought the world
was getting very dull, as we all do when
things don't run quite in accordance with
our desires, and finally resolved that she
would ride across and see Kate Kynaston,
for the Kynastons had once more taken The
Firs for the hunting season ; and, though
there had been a relaxing of that great
friendship which had suddenly sprung up
between that lady and herself, still, strange
to say, a common trouble had once more
drawn them together. Mrs. Kynaston had
schemed and plotted successfully — she had
succeeded in detaching Gilbert Slade altogether
from Miss Devereux, but she had
also unluckily lost touch of him herself.
She had failed to realise that both she and
Lettie owed in great measure their intimacy
with Bertie Slade chiefly to his being a
brother officer of Charlie, and that now
that youthful cornet had disappeared from
the scene they heard no more of Gilbert's
movements. Both ladies thought — and

Lettie with good reason — that she for her
own sake would have proved sufficiently
attractive to ensure seeing and hearing a
good deal of him, while Kate Kynaston's
vanity enabled her to take a similar view
of the situation. Miss Devereux wondered
whether the rumour that she was engaged
to be married to Mr. Eurzedon had anything
to say to Gilbert Slade's persistent avoidance
of her— avoidance was perhaps hardly the
right term, for he had certainly tried twice
to see her during the Derby week ; still, he
could have managed to meet her easily
enough had he wished it ; he could have
found plenty of excuses for writing to her ;
but no, from the week he had paid those
two bootless visits to Onslow Gardens Gilbert
Slade had given no sign of his very
existence. She knew how persistently the
story of her engagement had been circulated;
of the shameful persecution — for it amounted
to that — she had been subjected to by Mr.
Furzedon. Was it not possible this infamous

falsehood had been brought designedly to
Gilbert Slade's ears, and would not that
account for his never coming near her ?

She might have been more disposed to
accept this theory but for Mrs. Kynaston,
who was continually impressing upon her
that in affairs of the heart soldiers were not
to be put faith in. A great propounder
of the doctrine that " he loves and rides
away " was Mrs. Kynaston, but then, just
now, she had a purpose to serve, and she
was relentless in her determination to crush
out anv feeling for Gilbert Slade that might
be lurking in Miss Devereux's bosom. True,
Mrs. Kynaston was not forwarding her own
flirtation in any way. And, what was more,
although that lady had not in the least
abated her caprice for Gilbert Slade, she was
utterly nonplussed as regards further pursuit
of it. It was not likely that the fiction
of Lettie's engagement to Mr. Eurzedon could
be much longer kept up ; and Mrs. Kingston
had only the other day been compelled

to write that gentleman a stinging rebuke
for what she denominated his ill-advised
audacity. Persistent in his determination
to marry Miss Devereux, Purzedon had
actually written to her father, and volunteered
a visit to North Leach; but, upon
hearing this, Lettie blazed out indignantly —

It can't be, father ! it musrft be ! He
has asked me to marry him, and he won't
take ' No ' for an answer. Already he has
spread abroad the report that I am engaged
to him. His proposing this visit is all a part
of his scheme. It would give an air of truth
to the rumour. If he was a gentleman he
would cease from persecuting me. My ' No ! '
was not only said clearly and distinctly to
start with, but has been quite as decisively
repeated."

Say no more, Lettie ! If he is distasteful
to you, my girl, he shan't come to North
Leach. But as he is an old friend of Charlie
we must make some civil excuse."

Although in the first instance Mrs. Kynaston

had been the suggester and promoter
of Furzedon's suit, yet now that she had
attained her end she had become a very
half-hearted ally. She began to see now
that nothing was likely to shake Lettie's
determination ; and, though such a marriage
would have suited her very well, she was
getting very doubtful of its ever being
brought about. Mrs. Ky aston had always
a shrewd eye to the future. She liked
wealthy friends, and Mr. and Mrs. Eurzedon
would have been always sure to have a pleasant
house where she could claim a welcome.
She had seen so many young women say
No " in the first instance to wealthy
wooers, and afterwards change their minds,
that she thought it might be so with Miss
Devereux; but she thought so no longer,
and considered that any such decided step
on Mr. Furzedon's part — as volunteering
himself to North Leach — might rend aside
that flimsy fiction of his engagement, which
it, for the present, suited Mrs. Ky aston to
maintain.

She had told Mr. Eurzedon that perseverance
is all very well, but that it must he
accompanied by tact. Given that, as long asa
woman is unwed no man need despair of
winning her for a wife ; and then Mrs. Kynaston,
her platitudes got done with, relieved
her own disappointment by administering as
many pin-pricks to the rather pachydermatous
Eurzedon as she could compass.

In pursuance of her resolution Miss Devereux
cantered over to The Firs, and found Kate
Kynaston both at home and a prey to that
unmitigated boredom which is apt to steal
over sparsely-populated country neighbourhoods
with the last days of the hunting
season ; when the hot sun and bleak forester
have so dried up the ground that there
is no scent ; when those on one side the
cover are shivering while those on the other
are mopping the perspiration from their
brows, and a general feeling obtains that
sylvan scenes and amusements are played
out for the present. Mrs. Kynaston welcomed
her visitor warmly. She was in that

state of ennui and depression that makes
even the appearance of one's pet antipathy
subject of rejoicing, so that she was most
unfeignedly glad to see Lettie.

How good of you to come ! " she exclaimed.
" I was just wondering what I
should do with myself. The country has
grown so triste, and I am positively pining
for London."

I don't think you have much cause for
complaint," rejoined Miss Devereux, "not
but what I quite agree with you that it is a
dull time with us ; still, two or three weeks
will see you out of it."

Yes ; and I believe it's nothing but
sheer perversity on Dick's part that makes
us stay even that long. He insists upon
staying for Lincoln Faces ; declares he's
going to win a hunters' flat-race there.
What a jolly party we were there two years
ago."

"Yes," said Lettie; "poor Charlie, how
mortified he was at being — as he said —

vol. in. r

gammoned out of the race by the Walkers.
It was a bitter pill for him having to leave
the — th Hussars ; but I verily believe
having to part with Polestar caused him as
much grief as anything."

Yes, I dare say. It's sad to think of,
my dear, but I fancy the laureate knew
what he was writing about. It is rather
humiliating —

Something nearer than his dog,
Not so dear, quite, as his horse.'

But the noble animal does come first, I'm
afraid, with these hard riders. When Mrs.
Morrison got such a nasty fall last year they
say her husband's first anxious inquiry was,
6 Is the mare much hurt ? ' "

I won't have Charlie compared to a brute
like Mr. Morrison," said Lettie, laughing ;
"besides, that couple are very well matched.
If he had come to grief I can quite fancy
her making the like inquiry. Shall you goto
Lincoln with the Major ? "

No ; it's no fun by myself in that way.
I wish you would come''

We've none of us any heart for it this
year' replied Lettie. " Mother is quite
convinced that she will never see Charlie
again, and he was her favourite, you know ;
and even father, I believe, is sorry now that
he didn't pay all that money, sooner than
Charlie should have had to exchange."

The old story," said Mrs. Kynaston,
meditatively. "Fathers are so fond of playing
the relentless parent to start with, forgetting
they are usually unfitted for the
role ; besides, 'the cutting off with a shilling'
is quite out of fashion now-a-days. Do you
ever hear anything of Mr. Slade, or any of
Charlie's old friends?"

"I know nothing of Mr. Slade, and haven't
seen him for more than a year. Of Mr.
Furzedon — who, I suppose, must be included
in that list — I have seen a good deal
too much, though not lately. I have come
to detest that man."

f 2

Which is hard," rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
considering how he has striven to produce
an opposite result. No," she continued, as
Miss Devereux made an impatient gesture
of dissent, " I am going to advocate his cause
no longer; but what you call his persecution
many women would regard as a proof of the
sincerity of his love. There's much truth in
the old adage, and faint heart never did win
fair lady. I suppose there are women who
from very weariness yield at last to man's
pertinacity."

Poor weak creatures ! But I am made
of sterner stuff. I don't like Mr. Eurzedon,
and I never shall. And you may call it
what you like, but his still pursuing me
with his addresses I regard as persecution."

Well, it's a persecution that most girls
look upon with a lenient eye," retorted
Mrs. Kynaston, who, although declaring
that she could no longer advocate Furze-don's
cause, and who in her heart was
quite convinced that it was hopeless, still

never could resist giving him such support
as came to her hand.

Do you know," said Lettie, "that there
has rather a curious thing happened about
Mr. Furzedon lately."

"No," replied her companion, "and, if
anything of importance had happened to
him, I fancy Dick would have heard of

it."

I had a letter the other day from my
aunt Mrs. Connop, which has mystified mea
good deal. She says she had a few lines
from Mr. Slade, who tells her that Mr.
Furzedon has got involved in a very serious
scrape ; whether he has told her of what
nature or not I don't know, she at all
events does not tell me, but as far as I can
make out the gist of Mr. Slade' s letter it
appears to be that the less we see of Mr.
Furzedon the better."

You mean to say, Lettie," said Mrs.
Kynaston, eagerly, "that he has done something
which would involve his acquaintance

dropping him, because Mr. Slade's letter
means that or nothing."

"It is putting things rather strongly, perhaps,
but that is pretty much what I make
out of aunt Sarah's letter. Mr. Slade no
doubt imagines that Mr. Eurzedon is a constant
visitor in Onslow Gardens. "

Instead of being merely anxious to be
one," interrupted Mrs. Kynaston. "Well
never mind, I'll not allude to all that, but
you do surprise me. Mr. Furzedon is such
a shrewd self-possessed person I should have
thought him the last man likely to get into
an awkward scrape. By the way, Mr. Slade
might have vouchsafed me a hint as well as
Mrs. Connop. Mr. Furzedon is always atour
house when we're in town. He and
Dick are partners in racing matters. It
can't be anything of that sort surely,"
continued Mrs. Kynaston, thoughtfully.

I know no more than I have told you,"
replied Lettie, "but I don't quite share your
opinion of Mr. Furzedon ; I'll quite admit

that he is too shrewd and sensible to get
into what's called a scrape, but I can quite
imagine him capable in pursuit of his own
schemes of what the world would call something
unpardonable' and Lettie thought
bitterly of how Furzedon had proposed to
purchase her hand by the payment of her
brother's debts.

Mrs. Kynaston eyed her visitor keenly.

The same thought had once or twice occurred

to herself, she was much too shrewd a judge

of human nature not to have detected long

ago that Eurzedon was a very unscrupulous

man ; she had dismissed the thought as soon

as it occurred" to her with the reflection

that after all this was an acquaintance of

her husband. She had been told to be civil

to him, and knew that Dick Kynaston was

quite competent to take care of himself; she

felt very curious to know what this cloud

was that was hanging over Furzedon ; but

it was quite evident that Lettie knew no

more whatever Mrs. Connop might do. In

the meantime it was possible that the Major
would be able to solve the mystery when
she should ask him about it.

I will ring for my horse now, if you will
allow me," said Miss Devereux, "and I
will let you know whenever the Furzedon
mystery clears up; for the present, goodbye
! and remember, you have only two or
three weeks' dulness before you, while, as
for poor me, I am planted here till it
pleases aunt Sarah to send for me ! " and
with a shrug of her shoulders, indicative of
much disgust, Lettie Devereux took her
departure.

CHAPTER V.

MAJOR KYNASTON's VISITOR.

When Major Kynaston came home that
evening, his wife at once informed him of
what Miss Devereux had told her ; but the
Major was even more astonished than his
wife, and professed himself perfectly unable
to guess what scrape Eurzedon had possibly
got into. He quite agreed with his wife
that Eurzedon was about the last man he
should have expected to come to grief in
any way.

He is as sharp as a needle, Kate, has
plenty of money, and knows how to take
care of it. He don't overrate his game at
anything, and there is no man in London

better able to take care of himself on the
racecourse or at the card-table ; lie's not
likely to come to harm ; and, though it's
going rather far to say that a man of his
age is proof against the fascination of your
sex, I can only think Furzedon's a fish that
would take a deal of catching."

But think, Dick, is there no Turf transaction
in which he was engaged this year,
in which his conduct might be called — well,
shady?"

None that I know of," rejoined the
Major. "He's no fool; but I don't think
he would do anything — to put it broadly —
that could be laid hold of."

Stop, Dick ! What was the biggest
coup you and he made last year ? The
Derby, wasn't it?"

Yes ; but Eurzedon won a good deal
more money than I did over it. He laid
against the favourite to an extent I didn't
dare, and got rather nervous about it."

Just so; and wasn't there some story

about the jockey who rode Belisarius being
drugged?"

Yes ; there always are all sorts of
cards ' about when a favourite is beaten
for a big race. Drugged," continued Dick
Kynaston ; " well, as far as taking about a
bottle of brandy before he got up, I suppose
Bill Smith was. He had been on the drink
ever since he won the ' Two Thousand,' and
it was the knowledge of that led us to bet
against him. Furzedon, who, as I said before,
went deeper into it than I did, had a
tout down at Epsom to watch him, just as
you would watch a horse ; and it was his
reporting that Bill Smith was never sober
induced him to lay so heavily against the
horse."

Then, you don't believe the story of
this drugged glass that was handed him in
the paddock ?" remarked Mrs. Kyuaston.

Certainly not," rejoined the Major.
Don't think Bill Smith required anything
of that sort ; he rendered himself incapable

in a legitimate way. But there are plenty
of other ways a man may come to grief,
Kate."

Quite so' rejoined Mrs. Kynaston ;
and, I suppose, if it's true that Mr. Eurze-
don is in trouble, it is from a cause we
should never dream of."

If there really is anything in the rumour,
you may depend on it we shall soon
hear — rather a bore if it's a big scandal,"
continued Dick, "because we laye been
rather intimate with him of late; and I
have been mixed up in a good many business
matters with him."

Yes ; as you say, it would be a little
awkward ; it always is when one's intimates
turn out disreputable or adventurers. However,
we shall doubtless soon know all about
it, if there is anything to know."

Dick Kynaston upon this occasion went
to Lincoln unaccompanied by his wife, and
returned in high spirits, his speculations
having proved eminently successful. As

had been arranged, the races over, the
Kynastons at once took their departure for
London, and Miss Devereux was ]eft in the
seclusion of North Leach, to make the best of
an eastern county spring time, and anxiously
await her aunt's invitation to visit her in
Onslow Gardens. " Surely," thought Lettie,
Mr. Slade will feel himself bound to call,
after writing that line of warning to aunt
Sarah;" and then she wondered whether
that warning had not been intended for her.
It was very possible Gilbert had heard that
she was engaged to Mr. Eurzedon, and was
desirous of giving her a hint of that gentleman's
character before it was too late.
From what she knew of Gilbert Slade, he
was not at all the man to indulge in reckless
gossip about his fellows. She felt sure
that he would never have written to Mrs.
Connop in this wise without very substantial
ground to go on. And then Lettie, as
she turned the subject once more in her
mind, whispered to herself, " he surely must

care a little about me, or he would never
have interfered;" for, by this time, Miss
Devereux had quite convinced herself that
it was in her special behoof that Gilbert had
written to her aunt. How she did wish that
she could see that letter ! Not that she supposed
there was any mention of her in it;
but she was very curious to see exactly
what Mr. Slade had said. At present she
could not be sure whether this guarded reticence
was Mrs. Connop's or his. She was
destined to read that letter some little time
later with mingled feelings of pleasure and
annoyance. In the meantime the Kynas-
tons had duly settled in May Air for the
season, and the Major also had received a
letter which puzzled him pretty nearly as
much as Gilbert Slade's did Miss Devereux.
Dick Kynaston's note was from the uncle,
and the fact of Norman Slade writing to
him at all astonished the Major not a little.
When they had met, racing, Kynaston had
more than once endeavoured to improve the

slight acquaintance he had had with him;
hut Norman was a very difficult man to
know, unless you happened to suit his fancy
the last man upon whom it was possible
to force an acquaintance ; and, as we know,
he had conceived a dislike to the Major the
very first time he met him. The note was
very formal and very short ; it commenced,
Dear sir," and briefly inquired when it
would suit Major Kynaston to see the writer
on a matter of business. Dick, of course,
replied naming a day upon which he would
be at home, and then consulted his wife as
to what business it was possible Norman
Slade could want to see him about. Mrs.
Kynaston read the letter attentively, and
then exclaimed — " I am right, Dick ; it's
some Turf scrape that Mr. Purzedon has got
into. Mr. Norman Slade is a great racing-man,
is he not?"

The Major nodded assent.

You are known to be Furzedon's Turf
partner, and you may depend upon it he

went a good deal further than you know of
about that Derby. There's a storm brewing,
Dick, and I am afraid some of the mud
likely to be stirred up will come our way."

6i Rather rough if it should, but the
Derby business took place as I told you
the other day, and I don't believe Norman
Slade wants to see me about anything connected
with racing. More likely some
young fellow has got into a mess about
bills, and he wants my advice about it — his
nephew the hussar, I shouldn't wonder."

Mrs. Kynaston's heart gave a jump as
she thought of Bertie Slade in trouble and
coming to them for advice and assistance.
That would afford many delightful opportunities
of prosecuting the flirtation for the
forwarding of which she had so patiently
schemed, and enable her to complete the
subjugation of that errant dragoon; for that,
given sufficient opportunity, any man could
resist her fascinations was an idea that never
crossed Kate Kynaston's mind. She had a

wild caprice to instal Bertie Slade as chief
cavalier-inviting, and had allowed her
feelings to run riot as far as he was concerned.
What had been caprice was now
dangerously near a mad infatuation, and
Mrs. Kingston had neither love for her
husband nor much principle to stand to her
should the hour of need come. A day or
two later and Norman Slade was duly
ushered into Kynaston's sanctum and welcomed
with great cordiality by the Major.

Don't know what brings you here,
Slade, but I'm very glad to see you; and
now you have found us, I hope, although
it is your first, it will be by no means your
last visit."

"I have called, Major Kynaston," rejoined
Norman, with a slight inflection on
the Major, "to acquaint you with a very
unpleasant circumstance, which, as it indirectly
concerns you, ought to be made
known to you. Mr. Furzedon is your racing
partner, I believe.' '

VOL. III. G

u He is," replied the Major shortly.

Are you aware of what his business is ? "
asked Slade.

I never heard he had one," replied
Kynaston with unfeigned surprise.

And yet you are credited with knowing
the ins and outs of London life pretty well."

"What has that got to do with it?"
replied the Major testily.

Mr. Purzedon is a money-lender on an
extensive scale," said Norman with an
amused smile. " He does business under
the name of Jordan and Co."

What ! " exclaimed the Major, " do you
mean to tell me that Ralph Purzedon is
Jordan and Co. the swell pawnbrokers ? "

u Just so," replied Slade.

Well," said the Major, " it takes a good
deal to astonish Dick Kynaston, but he's
fairly gravelled this time," and then, to
Norman Slade' s astonishment, the Major
burst into a peal of laughter.

What could the man mean ? for Slade

felt sure that Kynaston spoke the truth
when he declared his ignorance of Furze-don's
carrying on business as Jordan and Co.
Norman had experience in his Turf life of
many shady characters, but he would have
considered the discovery that one of his
intimate friends was a professional moneylender
by no means a thing to laugh at.
But Dick Kynaston was struck with the
cool cynicism of Furzedon, as the man
about town, recommending his spendthrift
associates to apply for relief to Jordan and
Co., alias Furzedon, and how that he the
Major had been unconsciously made to
serve that gentleman's interests. However,
a revulsion speedily took place, and Kingston
grasped the fact that his astute young
partner had been making a fool of him.
No man arrived at this situation but feels
angry with the originator of it, and it was
with not a little hauteur the Major replied,

I have been unable, Mr. Slade, to help
laughing at Furzeclon's amazing impudence,
g2

but you can't suppose he would have ever
crossed my threshold as a friend, nor been
received by my wife, if I had had the
slightest knowledge of his occupation. On
a racecourse, as you know, we mix with
strange acquaintances."

Yes," said Norman ; " but I think
you will admit his acquaintance, even there,
is highly detrimental. I am about to bring
a very grave charge against Mr. Furzedon
before the Jockey Club ; against him remember,
not you, though, as his racing
partner, it is right you should have early
notice of it."

The Major was listening with the greatest
attention.

I shall charge Mr. Furzedon with
hocussing the jockey of Belisarius in the
Derby just before the race."

Absurd ! " interrupted the Major. « Bill
Smith required no hocussing, he was drunk,
as all the world knows "

I have nothing to do with whether he

required it," sneered Norm an ; " if he did
not there was the less cause for Mr. Furze-don
to commit unnecessary crime. That he
did I can and shall prove. I suspected it
at the time, and learnt it as a fact last year
at Doncaster."

"And why was the charge not brought
forward then?" said Kynaston.

4 'Simply because I was unable to collect
the evidence before the racing season terminated,
and there has been no quorum of the
Jockey Club to bring the case before since.

I know there was some rumour of this
kind current last May, but I never heard
Furzedon's name connected with it. I
always regarded it as an idle canard. You
know very well, if a favourite does not run
up to his form in a big race, there's generally
a whisper of foul play of some kind — usually
quite unwarranted. I can only say, Mr. Slade,
should you prove your case, my connection
with Mr. Furzedon is of course terminated —
indeed I think I might say that under any

circumstances ; in the mean time I can only
thank you for giving me this notice of your
intentions."

It was only right you should have it,"
rejoined Norman, rising; " you know the
world, and especially the racing world, too
well, not to know that some odium will
probably apply to yourself, in consequence
of your partner's nefarious proceedings
what steps you will think hest to take are,
of course, no business of mine ; I have only
to warn you that the case is very clear
against Purzedon. Good morning, Major
Kynaston ! " And with a somewhat stiff
bow Norman Slade left the room.

Pleasant this, by Jove ! " muttered the
Major as the street-door closed behind his
visitor. (C Slade is just the man to work out
this thing relentlessly, and, what's more,
the Jockey Club will listen to him. That
young scoundrel! I have not the slightest
doubt he's guilty. Slade would never have
spoken so confidently as he did if he had

not got chapter and verse for it ; he is quite
right, some of the mud of this transaction
is sure to stick to my skirts ! Nobody will
ever believe that I wasn't in the swim ; they
will probably suggest that it was all my
planning, only that I was too cunning to
risk doing it myself ! Quite likely the world
will take that view of it, and will probably
say that Furzedon has to bear all the
punishment of it, while the chief offender
has gone scatheless. Think of that young
vagabond turning out to be Jordan and
Co. ! "

The Major's very high tone about money-lenders
may seem somewhat preposterous,
considering that he was but a money-lender's
jackal himself; but he regarded all that as a
strictly business transaction, and upon the
rare occasions any of the fraternity were
permitted to pass his door they got no
further than into his own immediate den.

As he walked away Norman Slade came
to the conclusion that Major Kynaston had

been guilty of no connivance with his
partner in the matter of the Epsom robbery.
It had evidently been done without his
knowledge, and it was quite evident to
Slade that he was in considerable ignorance
of Mr. Furzedon's character and pursuits.
"To think," he muttered with a smile,
that such a sly old fox as Kynaston thinks
himself should have been bamboozled by
such a young blackguard as Purzedon.
However, one must get up pretty early to
hold one's own with a pawnbroker's nephew,
I suppose, and this one certainly seems
exceptionally gifted."

CHAPTER VI.

There ALI VANISHES.

Hobson and Charlie Devereux rode back to
camp at a hand gallop. Sharp and decisive
were the former's orders to strike the tents
and fall in as quickly as possible. In less
than an hour the soldiers had abandoned
the shade of the grateful tope of palms and
were tramping across the sandy plain that
separated them from the wooded country.
The soldiers all knew that their officers had
come upon the enemy, and stepped outwith
a will, in the hope that at last they
were about to come up with their wily
fleet-footed foe, and settle with him for
the many long wearisome marches he

had caused them. Charlie Devereux, especially,
is very sanguine on this score, but
the tough veteran who leads them is by no
means hopeful about it.

I trust you may prove right, Devereux,"
said Hobson, in reply to the gleeful prognostications
of his subaltern; "but they are
cunning as jackals, these Pandies. They
know where we halted, and Shere Ali would
make a very good guess at how long we
should be before we reached him, and I do
not believe he will wait for us."

Hobson proved a true prophet, for when
they arrived at the edge of the jungle the
skirmishers speedily announced that the
enemy's camp was deserted. His cooking
fires were still smouldering, and it was
evident, from other signs, that he had been
encamped there for some days, but Shere
Ali had now vanished, and there was
nothing to show in what direction. It might
have been by the road, but Hobson was well
aware that there were numerous trails

through the jungle perfectly well known
and not infrequently used by the natives,
and it was more probable that the famous
tacit chief would sooner trust to the
trackless forest to baffle the pursuit of the
Feringhee than rely upon the legs of his
followers on the main road. This was rather
a tangled knot to unravel, and Charlie chafed
and fretted a good deal, because his captain
halted instead of pushing along the main
road rapidly in pursuit of the fugitives.

Surely we are losing time," he remarked
at length, no longer able to control his impatience.


Don't cackle about what you don't understand,
young 'un," rejoined Hobson, good-humouredly.
" If I knew Shere Ali had
gone that road ; if I really had some grounds
for supposing he had taken it, I would push
on at once. As it is, I am not going to
march my men off their legs in pursuit of
a Will-o'-the-wisp. You, no doubt, think
Englishmen can beat these Pandies at anything.

When it comes to running away, I
tell you they're not in it with these fellows."

Charlie thought there was a lamentable
want of dash about his leader ; but Hobson
had not hunted down the broken sepoy
army in the great Mutiny time without
learning how very hard they were to come
up with when they did not deem it expedient
to fight, and how they were served by
their intimate knowledge of the bye-ways of
the country.

It's weary work," continued Hobson,
but there is nothing for it but to make
such inquiries as one can, and if we can
make out nothing about Shere Ali and his
band patrol the main road."

Like policemen on their beats," said
Charlie, with a face of extreme disgust.

Just so," rejoined Hobson. " However,
you needn't be down on your luck. I don't
know why, but I have an idea that you are
destined to be face to face with Shere Ali
one of these days."

What makes you think that ? " asked
Charlie.

I tell you I don't know. Psha ! that's
not quite true. I'm not much given to
dreaming, but I had a confused dream the
other night, in which you and a tall Partie
figured prominently."

And what were we doing ? "

Well, your best to kill each other,"
replied Hobson.

And how did it finish ? "

"That is just what I can't tell you. It
was most annoying. I awoke in the middle
of it, and I was most anxious to see the
finish of that fight."

"But who was getting the best of it?"
said Charlie, with great interest.

It was anybody's battle," replied Hob-sod,
laughing. "Don't think me bloodthirsty,
but I did want to see it fought out."

"Well," returned Charlie, "I need scarcely
say I should have preferred your being able
to say it was six to four on me when you left.

Sony, too, lie is so big. Have you ever seen
him?"

f ']S T o; but I've seen lots of bis sort. They
run tall, these Bengal sepoy. I had our
old bugbear Shere AH and you in my head,
which, with that remarkably tough mutton
we dined on yesterday, would quite account
for my vision."

And where were you?" asked Charlie.

Oh, you seldom see yourself. Don't you
recollect that when you do, according to
Scott's Legend, you sleep in a 'bluntly plaid'
erelong? But, holloa! what's this? It looks
like a runner from head quarters." And as
Hobson spoke a peon was seen coming along
the road at the sling trot with which the
native usually accomplishes the task of letter-bearing.


When he reached Hobson be stopped,
made a low salaam, and handed him a letter.
The Captain tore it open, and, as he glanced
hastily over it, exclaimed, " My dream is
about to come true. Hurrah ! No more of

this tiresome game of 'catch who catch can.'
We are re-called, and are to be mounted.
The chief says the fiat has gone forth that
Shere Ali is to be suppressed at any price.
It seems he has been throat-cutting on a
somewhat extensive scale of late, and the
Government are determined to take him
dead or alive."

"Only give us horses, and we will soon
account for him," cried Charlie, who, as an
ex-dragoon, believed implicitly in mounted
men, and held that a regiment of hussars
could go anywhere and do anything. " But
it will take a long while to make them."

"Put your cavalry ideas on one side,
young 'un. Remember we are only mounted
infantry, and our horses are hacks, not
chargers."

Charlie made no reply. He comprehended
but one idea of a soldier on horseback, and
that was evidently not Hobson's. Still, if
they only did get at Shere Ali, it wouldn't,
he thought, much matter how. Charlie

was burning for that fight of which Hobson
had dreamt. " When shall we march ? " he
said at length.

A little before daybreak tomorrow ; and
we will get back to head quarters as quickly
as possible."

On their arrival at the cantonment,
Charlie and Hobson found their work cut
out for them, and for the next month were
busily engaged in organising the mounted
infantry. The regiment was picked for men
who could ride ; and they found no lack of
volunteers, the only difficulty laid in the
selection, for the British soldier, in his
anxiety to vary the monotony of his life, in
some cases over-estimated his equestrian
capabilities. The authorities were urgent
for the departure of Hobson's command as
soon as possible ; and there was therefore
no time to teach those to ride who had not
some knowledge of it. Shere Ali was increasing
in audacity week by week, and
seemed ubiquitous in the Deccan. He had

of late taken to ensure there being? no
evidence against him by the wholesale
murder of those he had robbed, after the
manner of the Thugs ; and there was, consequently,
no actual proof of his being the
author of some of the atrocities laid to his
charge. He was said to be at the head of
a numerous band of desperadoes, and to
boast openly that he would not be taken
alive, and neither asked nor gave quarter.
The question of Shere Ali had become that
of the apprehension of a great marauder ;
the laying hold of a Rob Roy or Schinder-
haines, and the interest increased in intensity
with the constantly-recurring stories
of the tacit's audacity and ferocity.

But a Nemesis attends these human
tigers, and they mostly die violent deaths.
The buccaneer chiefs, who made their victims
walk the plank, chiefly "found a rope
on it " before their course was run. Sooner
or later some one revolts at the doings of
these blood-stained monsters, and either

VOL. III. H

betrays them to the powers that be or rids
the world of them ; and it is the conviction
that this awaits them, and can only be
averted by the terror they inspire, that
makes them, once launched on their career,
insatiable in their lust of blood. Shere Ali
knew that his life was forfeit, and said
grimly that when his time came his spirit
would depart well attended.

Hobson's men at last satisfy the Colonel's
critical eye ; and, with young Devereux as
his subaltern, the Captain is once more dispatched
in pursuit of his wily foe. There
has grown up in the breasts of Hobson, and
such of his men as were with him on his
former expedition, a feverish thirst to settle
accounts with Shere Ali, such as a keen
shikarri might feel to come face to face
with a " man-eater," such as some years
previously pervaded the Central Indian
Field Force on the subject of Tantia Toper.
That sagacious chieftain was always dodging
backwards and forwards across the Nere

in a perfectly maddening manner,
determined to fight only on his own terms,
which, as a good strategist, meant when
the chances were much in his favour.
Again and again did one or other of the
English leaders think themselves certain of
his capture, only after two or three forced
marches to find the wily Asiatic had once
more slipped across the river. Shere Ali
was enacting the great drama over again on
a small scale, but with no abatement of the
murder and outrage that characterised the
great rebellion.

There, Hobson," said the Colonel, as he
bade the detachment farewell, "I hope you
will have the luck to capture the scoundrel ;
there are so many parties out on the same
errand that it is impossible he can evade
you all. Depend upon it Shere Ali's career
is about run."

My fellows are keen enough, sir. He's
cost us too many long tramps not to make
hus

eager to bring him to book, and this time
he won't beat us for speed."

But Shere Ali proved more irritating to
his enemies than ever upon this occasion.
Detachments of cavalry and mounted infantry
were, as they thought, closing in
upon him on all sides, when suddenly the
famous tacit vanished; no intelligence of
his whereabouts possible to be arrived at.
"Where he had gone or what, had become of
him nobody knew. Vague rumours there
were that he had broken up his band and
fled into Bengal. Weeks went by, and, all
efforts to learn anything concerning him
proving useless, his pursuers were reluctantly
recalled, but not before the leaders of the
various parties had confessed to being unable
to discover any trace of him.

Fairly beat, sir," said Hobson, when he
reported himself to his chief on his return.
I learnt for certain that I was within forty
miles of Shere Ali. Did it in seven hours,
only to find him fled— where to it is impossible

to conjecture. If the earth had swallowed
him and his followers they could not
have more utterly vanished."

"We shall hear of that fellow again before
long," said the Colonel grimly, " and \.
hope hang him before we've done with
him."

The chief proved a true prophet ; ere a
month had clasped an outrage was perpetrated
between Jubbulpore and Xagpore,
which eclipsed all previous exploits of the
kind. A treasure-chest under escort of an
English officer and twenty sepoy was lured
into an ambuscade and slaughtered to a
man. Except during the great Mutiny, it
was rarely that the native had dared to raise
his hand against the life of the white man,
and it was regarded as a striking instance
of Shere Ali's audacity that he should have
ventured to slay a Eeringhee. Eor that he
was the author of this crime none doubted,
although none of the luckless escort lived
to tell the tale of their disaster. Even in

the worst days of Thuggee, the votaries of
Bhowanee had never ventured to cast the
dastardly roomel around the throat of the
white man. Nor had the dacoits previously
ever ventured to attack the dominant race.
It had been the proud boast before the
terrible outbreak of Fifty Seven, that an
English lady could travel all through the
Indian Peninsula with no further escort
than her native servants in perfect safety.
No wonder that a cry for vengeance went
forth against this wholesale murderer, and
the press, both English and native, were
unanimous in demanding the life of Shere
Ali. Eor once the blood-thirsty tacit had
committed not only an atrocious crime buta
grave blunder. The massacred sepoy were
recruited from the Presidency, and had
friends and relatives scattered far and wide
through the country which {Shere Ali had
chosen for the scene of his operations — none
quicker to see this than the Colonel of the
Rifles.

The beggar has overreached himself this
time, .Hobson. Some of the dead men's
relatives are sure to betray him sooner or
later. As for there being no witness to his
last crime, that doesn't matter — we've enough
against Shere Ali to hang him three times
over." And so the fiat went forth that
Shere Ali was to be hunted down, and once
more patrols of mounted infantry and cavalry
were despatched to scour the country.

"Remember," thundered the fiery old
Commander-in-chief at Madras, " I will
have that man dead or alive, and you will
march to-and-fro through the land like so
many wandering Jews till you get him."

Gad, Charlie," said Hobson, when that
speech reached his ears, "it is devoutly to
be hoped that some of us will lay hold of
him before long, for Sir Timothy is a man
of his word, and that means dacoit-huniing
for life." So once more the roads were
scoured in all directions, villages searched,
and heavy rewards offered for any intelligence

that might lead to the arrest of
Shere Ali, but again that mysterious personage
had disappeared. One thing only was
to be ascertained concerning him, namely,
that he had dismissed the main body of
his followers for the present, and retired
with only a few of the most trusted to his
stronghold ; but where that stronghold was
no man apparently could tell ; it was rumoured
that the secret of its whereabouts
was jealously guarded and utterly unknown
to the bulk of his band, only a few well-tried
retainers being aware of its locality —
ruffians for the most part as deeply bloodstained
as himself.

But the patrolling and vigilant search
for Shere Ali ceased nowhere upon that
account. " Sooner or later his necessities
will compel the tiger to leave his lair," argued
the Commander-in-chief of the Presidency,
"and then will come the hunter's
opportunity."

CHAPTER VII.

AN ENEMY HATH DONE THIS THING.

Dick Kingston was not the man to await
the tide of events upon finding himself
involved in an awkward scandal. Innocent
though he was, he saw at once that it would
be difficult to make the world believe that
he had no know] edge of his partner's practices.
One thing however was quite clear to
him, that there was no time to be lost in
publicly repudiating all partnership with
Purzedon in racing matters. No one would
believe that he was not implicated in the
affair unless he broke off all relations with
Purzedon. Indeed, as the Major pondered
over Norman Slade's story, the more indignant

he became that he should have been
such a mere puppet in the hands of his
clever young friend. What, he, the knowing
Dick Kynaston, the shrewd man about town,
who knew the ropes, who was up to every
move on the board—he to be hoodwinked
by this young pawnbroker, and find himself
mixed up in one of the most shameful Turf
robberies he had ever heard of ! He would
ask Mr. Purzedon to call upon him for the
last time, give him a piece of his mind,
and tell him that in future they would be
strangers to each other.

The Major gradually churned himself up to
a very pretty state of indignation. Although
by no means particular, he was honestly
angry that he should have unwittingly become
involved in such an ugly scrape as
this promised to become. He was quite
aware that his own racing career had not
been of that blameless chivalric nature at
which no stone can be thrown. He was
reputed a sharp practitioner, and the world

cannot pretend to decide where such gentlemen
draw the line. Straight-going humdrum
folks fail to see much difference
between what is termed " picking people
up," by which is meant taking advantage
of them, and picking pockets, and the
Major, although his code of morality was
otherwise, recognised this feeling. But,
perhaps, what moved his wrath more than
anything was the blow to his self-love, the
idea that he should have been so completely
overreached by a young gentleman whom
he certainly deemed astute, but no sort of
match for knowing Dick Kynaston, and yet
he had been bamboozled into playing jackal
to this young money-lender. He could not
help showing his indignation in his letter,
although when he sat down to pen his note
to Furzedon, asking him to call the next
morning, as he wanted to see him on a
matter of business, nothing was further
from his intention.

These temperate epistles we pen in our

hot wrath are not read quite in the same
light by their recipients, and if we only
kept them till the next morning we should
usually modify them considerably. I recollect
submitting a studiously worded missive
of this description to a friend, and exclaiming
triumphantly with reference to the
offender "he can't say anything about that."
My friend's eye twinkled as he replied,
Only that there's a good deal of east wind
in it."

Now this was exactly what struck Eurze-
don when he read the Major's note. Dick
Kynaston was wont to write in an off-hand
jovial fashion, but this time Ralph saw at a
glance that the language was iced. " I
wonder what the deuce is up," he muttered,
there is a screw loose somewhere, and
Kynaston evidently thinks I am to blame
for it. I don't want to break with the
Kynastons, more especially with the lady.
She has been of some service to me already
in a social way. She has given me several

useful introductions, to say nothing of hints.
She understands the game of society so
thoroughly, I would sooner trust to her
advice than that of anv one in England. She
first made me understand that to a man
with money, tact, and a pretty wife, all
society is attainable. "What can have gone
wrong, for that the Major thinks I've ' upset
the coach' is evident in every line of his
letter ? " Ralph Furzedon made his way
to the Major's house next day, and was
promptly shown into Kynaston's sanctum.
He was a little surprised at the Major's curt
good morning, and saw at a glance that
gentleman was seriously disturbed, and
meant coming to the point with scant
preamble ; so, like the astute young man he
was, Furzedon asked no questions, but left
his companion to open the ball.

I have sent for you, Mr. Furzedon,"
commenced Kynaston, with considerable
hauteur

Sent for me, Major Kynaston ? What

the devil do you mean ? " interposed Ralph
sharply.

If you will be good enough not to interrupt
me you will know in five minutes,"
was the equally sharp rejoinder. " In the
first place I am credibly informed that,
instead of being an idle man-about-town
living on your own means, you are in
reality a money-lender."

Even if that were so, which I don't
admit, I should fancy there was nothing in
the position to shock Major Kynaston,"
replied Furzedon sarcastically.

I am not in the least shocked. I know
half the money-lenders in London, but I don't
associate with them. Do you understand ?"

Perfectly ; though I do not see how
your remark applies to me."

Don't you ? " returned Kynaston.
Then I will put it a little plainer to
you. I no longer intend to be on visiting
terms with Mr. Furzedon, alias Jordan
and Co."

Eurzedon winced, but his hardihood did
not as yet fail him. " And who dares to
say that I am Jordan and Co. ? "

One who seems to have a good deal
more than that to allege against you — Norman
Slade."

Norman Slade ! " ejaculated Eurzedon,
as the scene in the Paddock at Epsom shot
athwart his brain. " What the deuce does
Norman Slade know about me ? "

He knows who you are, and what you
are," replied Kynaston sternly. " He knows
that you hocussed Bill Smith at Epsom,
and means that all the world shall know it
too."

"If he dares to bring such a charge
against me," blustered Eurzedon, starting
to his feet, " I'll prosecute him for libel."

Then you'll precious soon have the
opportunity. He intends to bring your
case before the Jockey Club at once, and
has vowed not to rest till you're warned off
the Heath."

Let him. Giving a jockey a glass of
wine is not hocussing him. A fig for Norman
Slade and his threats; he will find
that charge rather difficult to substantiate."

He says not," rejoined Kynaston, " and
he is not the man to say so unless he has
full proof of it. I have given you due
warning of what is in store for you — henceforth
remember we are strangers to each
other."

As you like," sneered Eurzedon ; " but
you seem to forget that you made as good
a thins out of Bill Smith's drunkenness as
I did."

I bet against a jockey who is unfit to
ride as I do against a horse who is unfit to
run, but I don't take part in bringing about
that state of things ! "

"And you mean to say that J do ! " exclaimed
Eurzedon angrily.

1 say nothing about it, one way or
another, and have nothing further to add
than— good morning : " and as he spoke

Kynaston rang the bell and made his visitor
a formal how of dismissal.

For an instant the blood surged in Eurze-
don's temples, and he felt a fierce inclination
to spring upon Kynaston ; but, mastering
his passion by a violent effort, he turned
on his heel, and abruptly left the room
without recognising his host's salutation.

When Eurzedon reached the street, he
began to think seriously over this disaster
that had befallen him. He had blustered and
denied everything to Dick Kynaston; but,
for all that, the charges were true, and he
could see that the Major believed them to
be so. The mere fact of being proclaimed a
money-lender would, he knew, damn him
socially ; nor was he at all certain that Norman
Slade would fail in proving the charge
he intended to bring against him, — he had
employed men to lead the great jockey to
his destruction. Ralph Eurzedon had seen
a good deal of the dirty side of life ; it was
not the first time he had used men as tools

VOL. III. I

to effect his purposes : and he knew what
such confederates were worth. Paid to do
the work with which their employer fears to
soil his own fingers, they are prompt to sell
him afterwards to any one who will huy
their information. Ah ! why had his nerve
failed him at the last moment ? These men
had done their work well and sufficiently,
but he was afraid, he stood so much money
against Belisarius that his heart failed him ;
he determined to make assurance doubly
sure. Just those few drops in the last glass
would effectually madden the man's already
heated brain, and destroy all judgment ; but
it put him— Purzedon — terribly in the hands
of his myrmidons, who, dexterously as it
was done, could not fail to see it. How had
this all come against him at once ? It was
so many months back, that he had thought
all danger of discovery was over. Then,
again, how did Norman Slade learn that he
traded in money under the name of Jordan
& Co. ? that was a secret he had jealously

guarded. He had thought that known only
to the confidential clerk who acted as his
representative ; and, as far as he could feel
certain about any one, he was of that man's
fidelity and discretion.

"Where had Slade acquired this information
? Those myrmidons of his might have
been bribed to betray the story of the great
Epsom race ; but of his money-dealing they
had no knowledge. How had that closely-kept
secret come to light? And, for the
present, Ralph Purzedon was utterly at a
loss to even suspect who it was that had
divulged the mystery of his occupation. But
he was at no loss to recognise the danger
of his position, and his brain was already
busily scheming as to how it was best, how
it was possible, to meet these unpleasant
revelations. He ran no risk of being entrapped
by the meshes of the law, but his
social ostracism was imminent. As a pawnbroker,
and the perpetrator of an infamous
Turf robbery, that world he so coveted to
i2

mix with would have none of him, and this
to Eurzedon meant the loss of all he deemed
life worth living for — the end of his ambition;
to figure in that world, and at the
same time to in sometime pull the strings of
it, to know of the skeletons in the cupboard
and look cynically on at the raree show —
and what men know more of these last than
usurers and solicitors ? — all that would have
delighted Eurzedon. Well, there was no
necessity for it as yet, for he supposed the
best way out of the embroglio would be to
go abroad for a time ; stories of this sort
speedily blew over; and, unless the affair
was kept constantly before it, in a week
or two the world would cease to talk about
it. Norman Slade, too, would be checkmated
about that Epsom business ; it would
be little use bringing such a charge against
a man who had crossed the Channel ; and
Eurzedon felt that he should get out of the
scrape cheaply at the expense of a few
months' absence from London. Better for

him that the charge should be dropped than
brought, even if not substantiated.

One thing, however, puzzled Furzedon
much ; he could not conceive how it was
that his identity with Jordan and Co. had
leaked out ; there was no one whom he
could suspect, for, strange to say, that Prance
might have betrayed him never entered his
head. His relations with that worthy had
been so long dropped, and he so rarely
encountered him, that he had forgotten that
Prance knew all the history of his past life ;
but he swore a great oath of vengeance
against the man who had proclaimed the
fact that he was a pawnbroker and a usurer,
should he ever discover it. And, though in
his first surprise at finding Norman Slade so
accurately informed as to his antecedents,
Prance had not occurred to him as the
informant ; still, sooner or later, it was
pretty certain to flash across him, and then
it was likely that vow would be kept with
ruthless exactitude.

He had regained his chambers, and was
still pondering over all these things, when
his servant brought in a pencilled note,
which he handed to him with the intimation
that the gentleman was waiting. Purzedon
glanced hastily at the note, and muttered to
himself, " Sturgeon ! now what on earth can
bring him here ? " He might well ask, for
Mr. Jacob Sturgeon was the confidential
and personal representative of Jordan and
Co., and his visiting Furzedon's rooms was
strictly interdicted. As the latter knew, it
must be something of considerable importance
that led him to disregard his instructions
on that point.

Show him up," said Furzedon ; and in
another minute Mr. Sturgeon entered the
room — a plump, quietly-dressed, prosperous-looking
man of business.

I am sorry to intrude, sir ; but, as you
can easily guess, it is a matter of importance
that has made me disobey orders; a
circumstance I thought you should be

made acquainted with without loss of
time."

Yes, yes ! " said Furzedon, impatiently.
"Get on; what is it?"

Well, sir," replied Mr. Sturgeon, " we've
had rather an awkward scene up at the
office. A Major Braddock called in about
those bills of young Devereux's. He pointed
out that Mr. Devereux was in India, and
therefore, for the present, quite out of our
reach ; but that his friends were anxious to
come to terms with us, and that he was
empowered to agree to any reasonable composition."


Ha! " exclaimed Eurzedon ; " I thought
they would be glad to come to terms before
long. And you, what did you say ? "

Oh ! sir," replied Sturgeon, smiling,
"I told them the old story— that for money
lent upon next to no security, as Mr. Devereux
s was, we claimed, and expected to get,
heavy interest; that there were also legal
expenses ; that I would submit what he said

to my principals ; but that I could hold
forth no hope of their foregoing their claims ;
that we could afford to wait ; that, though
Mr. Devereux had been unfortunate, we
knew him to be a gentleman, and felt perfect
confidence in his eventually meeting
his liabilities."

Quite right,' ' replied Purzedon ; " and
what did Major Braddock say to that?"

Well, he astonished me not a little, sir.
As a matter of course, I looked upon it as
only delicate fencing for the best terms on
either side ; but Major Braddock suddenly
interrupted me with ' stop all the clap-trap
of your class ; we happen to know who your
principal is ; we know who it is that trades
in usury under the name of Jordan and Co. ;
we know all about the pawnbroker's shop in
the next street, and are quite prepared to
go into court if you don't make fair terms
with us.' I rejoined that, if compelled to it,
I didn't suppose that my principals would
object to that way of coming by their own."

Ah ! and what did he say to that ? " inquired
Purzedon, eagerly.

Major Braddock," replied Sturgeon,
took me up sharp. c You mistake,' he
said, ' your principal — for you have only one
would be very unwilling to go into the
witness-box ; he is a good young man, and
loth that his left should know what his right
hand is doing. No, no ! Ralph Purzedon
won't wish to figure before his friends and
acquaintances in his real character. No; the
sooner you let him know that we are aware
of who we are dealing with the better.' "

And that was all that passed between
you ? " asked Purzedon.

Pretty well, sir," rejoined Sturgeon ; "I
told him politely he was mistaken ; but he
only rejoined, more briefly than civilly,
Not much ' ; threw his card on the table,
and left the place."

Quite right to come and tell me," said
Purzedon ; " you have, of course, no idea
how he came by his knowledge?"

No, sir ; I could have sworn that nobody
either at the shop or the offices had
any idea who Jordan and Co. were, except
myself, and the secret has never passed my
lips."

Thank you ; that will do," replied Furze-don.
" If Major Braddock calls again,
stick to it that he is mistaken. Don't come
here again unless you think it absolutely
necessary;" and, with a careless nod, Eurze-
don intimated to Mr. Sturgeon that his
interview was at an end.

CHAPTER VIII.

A MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING.

Halloa, Bertie ! where have you been all
the morning ; under what pretence have
you been evading your military duties ?
Allow me to congratulate you," exclaimed
young Sparshot.

I've been on a board on forage ; but I
don't see that that's a particular subject for
congratulation," returned Slade, as he took
a chair in the mess-room, and prepared to
assuage the hunger that his morning's work
had created.

Then you've heard nothing about Tom
Henderson's letter, although it specially
concerns you?"

"Not a word," replied Bertie; "what
has Tom got to say?"

First of all," rejoined young Sparshot,
Tom has met his Fate ; and, as his Late
happens to he possessed of more dollars
than a hussar ever dreamt of, he is going to
sell out, and that gives you your troop,
Captain Slade."

We shall all be sorry to lose Henderson,"
said Bertie ; " but promotion is promotion,
and in this case we have only to
congratulate him on his retirement; but
what is this other news ? "

"Well, for some inscrutable reason, it
seems the authorities have decided to send
us out to India at once, instead of in the
autumn."

You don't mean that ! " exclaimed
Slade ; " unless they've good grounds, it is
rather rough upon us all ; it's always a bad
business having to dispose of horses in a
hurry."

Yes," rejoined Sparshot ; " the end of

the hunting season ; and all the officers of
Her Majesty's — th Hussars are likely, I
am afraid, to have a bad sale."

Bertie Slade was not a little taken aback
by the news of the sudden order for India.
He knew very well what this meant. That
for the few weeks left to them there would
be plenty of work to be done ; that every
officers' s hands would be full, and leave of
absence difficult to obtain ; and yet he felt
that it was absolutely necessary for him to pay
a short visit to London. He had written, as
we know, to Mrs. Connop ; and in his letter
had vaguely told her that a very serious
charge was likely to be advanced against
Ralph Eurzedon, and delicately hinted that
she would do well to suspend further intimacy
with him until she heard the result.
He did not like to speak more plainly ; but
his meaning was that Miss Devereux, to
whom he firmly believed Eurzedon to be
engaged, should pause before uniting herself
to a man whom a few weeks might see

socially blasted. He had not liked to particularise
the offence of which Furzedon
had been guilty, and to attempt interference
in the slightest degree with Miss Devereux's
matrimonial intentions was, he felt,
quite out of his province; and yet, knowing,
as he did from his uncle Norman, the
story of Furzedon's life, he felt it was impossible
that he could look on and see the
girl he passionately loved married to such
a scoundrel. Lettie Devereux need never
fear about him ; he might be destined never
to win her for his wife, but for all that,
surely he ought not to let her contract this
marriage in ignorance ; surely no money
could compensate for the utter loss of position
which awaited Ralph Eurzedon. He
had not intended to speak more plainly. A
very little, and the accusation would be
publicly proclaimed in the press ; but, now
he was going to India, it might not be
brought forward till after his departure.
There was delay sometimes about these

things ; and it was possible that the knowledge
might come to Miss Devereux too
late.

Bertie's serious face was the cause of nota
little chaff from his gay companions, as
young Sparshot said Slade was the only
man who apparently appreciated the gravity
of the situation. " He'll chill the very marrow
in our hones directly. I can see he is
just about to begin, with mocking laughter,

All ! know ye the land of the sepoy and tiger,

And the terrible pranks that they play in that clime."

Bertie laughed as he rose. " One would
have thought, Spar," he said, "that the
'terrible pranks ' were thrashed out of the
sepoy during the Mutiny times; but, according
to Charlie Devereux, there are some
of them still untamed. No, I've got a few
things I want to settle before I start, and
I'm rather bothered about how to do it."
And so saying Bertie left the room.

11 Yes," he thought, when he reached his
own quarters, " there is no help for it ; I

must run up to town, see Mrs. Connop, and
tell her the whole story ; if she thinks fit
to let her niece marry a man with such a
charge hanging over him, I can do no
more. It is impossible for me to speak to
Lettie herself ; though how, in spite of his
money, she could accept such a cad as
Eurzedon ! " And here Bertie Slacle wound
up his train of thought by discharging a
volley of maledictions against that gentleman.


Bertie Slade easily obtained the short
leave he ventured to ask for. He had a
good many things to do in town besides his
interview with Mrs. Connop. He was
anxious to see his uncle Norman, to ascertain
when this business of Eurzeclon's would
be brought forward. Major Braddock he
also wanted to talk with, partly on his
own account and partly concerning Charlie
Devereux. Major Braddock, however, he
felt certain of seeing before he sailed. The
Major retained the greatest possible interest

in his old regiment, and was little likely tolet
them sail for the East without coming
down to Portsmouth to witness their embarkation.
The settlement of Charlie's
debts had been left to the discretion of Bob
Braddock ; and Bertie was in ignorance of
what steps the Major had lately taken about
their settlement. The last time he had
heard from his uncle Bob that gentleman
had assured him there was no hurry, that
the less they troubled about it the more
likely an advantageous offer was to come
from the other side. But the Major was
now acquainted with the identity of Jordan
and Co., and Bertie thought that would
probably change his tactics.

However, the day after his arrival in
town, at the earliest canonical hour permissible
for calling, Gilbert Slade made his
way into Onslow Gardens. " Mrs. Connop
was at home," he was told, in answer to his
inquiry. And without more ado he was

VOL. III. K

ushered up into the drawing-room, where, to
his great astonishment, he found himself
face to face with Lettie Devereux. The
situation was awkward. What he had to
say he could neither say to Miss Devereux
nor before her. And yet that say it he
would he was doggedly determined. Lettie
rose to receive him; and, though taken by
surprise as well as himself, yet she masked
her feelings well. Her heart beat quickly,
but her chance had come ; and come what
might it should go hard if before he left she
had not disabused Mr. Slade's mind of any
idea that she was engaged to Mr. Purzedon.
Mrs. Connop had not destroyed Bertie's
note, and Miss Devereux had had little difficulty
in persuading her aunt to allow her to
see it. She read between the lines easily
enough, and laughed as she said, " I think,
auntie dear, this letter was meant more forme
than for you, and has been written, I
have no doubt, under a very mistaken idea."
And Mrs. Connop was far too shrewd a

woman not to think her niece was taking a
correct view of the subject.

Charmed to see you, Mr. Slade," said
Lettie, as she rose to receive her visitor.
Since poor Charlie's c grief ' we have never
set eyes upon you. My aunt will he down
in a few minutes " — Miss Devereux devoutly
hoped she would not — "and I am sure is
dying, as we all are, to thank you for your
kindness to him in his trouble."

Pray don't mention it," rejoined Bertie,
it's one of the canons of the service that
we must stick to each other ; we all did the
best we could for Charlie, but you know
there was nothing for it but India."

I know," replied Lettie, " but I am
afraid he finds the life out there very dull."

Not a bit of it, Miss Devereux," rejoined
Slade. " Charlie is engaged in quite a
lively pursuit out there ; he and half the
soldiers in the Madras Presidency apparently
are engaged in hunting down the craftiest
and most murderous old robber that ever
k2

took to the roads. This Shere Ali keeps
them tramping continually up and down the
Presidency, and seems as difficult to lay
hands upon as a Will-o-the Wisp. We
shall perhaps get there in time to get a
turn at him too."

"You, Mr. Slade! Why what do you
mean ? "

Ah ! I forgot I hadn't told you we've
got our orders for India ; and, as luck has
it, are going to the same Presidency that
Charlie is in. We are off in about three or
four weeks."

Then the conversation rather languished.
These were two young people very desirous of
saying something to each other, and neither
of them knowing exactly how to begin. Of
course, it was all remarkably simple. Bertie
Slade wished to impress upon Miss Devereux
that she really ought not to marry
Purzedon ; while the lady on her side was
equally anxious to impress upon him that
she had not the slightest intention of doing

so. It is all very well to smile as a bystander,
and say " Absurd ! These people
could not fail to come to an explanation at
once." But have you no experience of these
comparatively easy explanations not come
to? Have you never thought, as you gained
the street, of the thing you wished you had
said in the drawing-room ? And do not all of
us know that the explanation so easy at first
becomes more difficult day by day ? Now,
Let tie Devereux had good grounds for thinking
that Bertie Slade was rather smitten
with herself, and this seemed to make it
rather difficult for her to volunteer the information
that she was not en<*a<?ed to Mr.
Furzedon. If Bertie would only afford her
the slightest opening it would be so easy ;
but then, Bertie, on his side, felt that he
could not congratulate her. And that was
the only way he could see of alluding to
what he supposed to be a settled thing.

"You will probably see Charlie, then?"
said Miss Devereux, at length, with that

usual disregard of the size of the country
apt to characterise people who have never
been there.

Probably," replied Bertie, "though it
may be some time first ; and I have come to
say c good-bye,' Miss Devereux ; and I have
one favour to ask you before I go. I wrote a
note a short time ago to Mrs. Connop. I
don't know whether she showed it to you,
but, at all events, I hope she will."

I have seen it," interrupted Lettie.
Still, what have I to do with it ? "

"I only want you to believe that I am
quite certain of what I say in it, and that I
am not merely detailing idle gossip."

As I said before, I really don't see anything
in it that concerns me."

Gilbert Slade was troubled. It was evident
that he could depend upon no help
from Miss Devereux. It was possible that
she might indignantly refuse to listen to
any imputation on her lover. But Bertie
was resolute to speak out.

"I should have thought," he remarked,
that you could not he indifferent to hearing
that any one you had lived upon friendly
terms with ran the risk of being brought to
shame. I have no wish to discuss it, but I
thought that as he had stayed at North
Leach, and was intimate with you all, you
ought to know it."

Why ought I to know it ? " exclaimed
Miss Devereux, indignantly. " Why will
you keep insisting that this specially concerns
me ? If Mr. Purzedon has done anything
disgraceful, surely my father or my
brothers are the people you ought to communicate
with."

It is very rarely that loss of temper conduces
to promote a good understanding
between people who are at cross purposes.
But Miss Devereux's natural exasperation
somewhat cleared the air, and dispersed the
fog in which they were both rapidly losing
themselves. Bertie, like herself, was now
not a little nettled, and it was somewhat

sharply that he retorted " I can only say
that, according to rumour, anything affecting
Mr. Furzcdon is likely to be more
severely felt by Miss Devereux than by any
other of her family. I suppose I was wrong
to touch upon the subject, but Charlie and
I were staunch friends."

"I know that," rejoined Lettie, gently.
And you are only saying to me what you
would have said to him, had he been in
England. But you're under a mis-apprehension,
Mr. Slade. You have heard an
absurd and rather annoying rumour that
got about last season, and for which, believe
me, there never has been the slightest
foundation."

Do you mean to say," said Bertie eagerly,
" that there is no engagement between
you and Mr. Furzedon ?"

Certainly not, I hardly understand myself
how the rumour got about."

As far as I am concerned, I had it from
your own brother'*

What from Charlie ? when ?"

"Last spring, and that is why I have
regarded it as a fact. When a young
lady's brother tells you the thing is so
you must admit you have it from good
authority.

Yes, indeed," replied Miss Devereux ;
"but who on earth could have put that
into Charlie's head ? I am perfectly sure
it never occurred to himself ;" but here
their conversation was interrupted by the
entrance of Mrs. Connop, who was unfeignedly
glad to see her old favourite again,
and gave Gilbert Blade a most cordial welcome.


How long are you up in town for T* she
asked, as she settled herself in her chair.

"Mr. Slade has come to say good-bye,
auntie," interposed Miss Devereux.

Goodbye, child ! why he has hardly said
how d'ye do, and we haven't seen him for
months. I've got lots to say to you, Mr.
Blade. I am dying for a long gossip with

you. What day will it suit you to come
out and dine with us?"

I am very sorry, but I hardly think that
is possible. I have only to-night and tomorrow
night in town, and shall be so busy
all day that dinner will have to be a very
movable feast with me. There is of course
a great deal to do, and we really are off at
once, and at very short notice."

Then the conversation became general,
and Mrs. Connop was deeply interested
in the fact that the — th Hussars were
going to the same Presidency that Charlie
was in, and that there was a possibility of
that young scapegrace coming across his
old comrades once more. Then Mrs. ,
ever sanguine, began to speculate on
the chances of Charlie getting back to
his old corps, which she thought might
be effected soon after the — th Hussars
got out there, and Gilbert Slade had to
explain to her that the War Office people
wouldn't stand quite such a rapid shuffling

of the cards as that ; then Charlie's affairs
were discussed, and Mrs. Connop was very
anxious to know if any progress had been
made in their settlement, and was loud in
her expressions of gratitude to Major Braddock
for all he had done for him.

It really is very good of him to trouble
himself about Charlie's business at all,"
remarked the good lady; " in fact he don't
deserve help or pity from any one."

Uncle Bob is a real good sort," interposed
Slade. "He took a fancy to your
brother, you see, Miss Devereux, at first
start, and although I own he was awfully
disgusted at his having to leave the regiment,
yet he is always staunch and true to
those he has once befriended. I don't
know what he has done about Charlie's
business, but I shall see him to-night,
and will come down to morrow, and let
you know all about it, and now I must be

going.

Why I've seen nothing of you," cried

Mrs. Connop ; " I've not had time to ask you
about this business of Mr. Furzedon."

I don't think there is any necessity forme
to say more than I have done," replied
Slade, with a meaning glance at Lettice ;
the papers will tell you all about it before
a few weeks are over. Good-bye, Mrs.
Connop, good-bye. Miss Devereux," and ashe
bent over her hand he said in a low
tone, " You can't think how happy you
have made me," and then, with a hearty
invitation from Mrs. Connop to come to
luncheon tomorrow, Gilbert Slade took his
departure. Not half a score of words, and
yet Lettice Devereux seemed quite as content
as if she had received a more explicit
declaration.

CHAPTER, IX.

Charlie's baptism of fire.

Charlie Devereux was once more upon
the war-path ; and he and his comrades, like
baffled hounds, grew thoroughly savage in
the pursuit of that perplexing marauder
Shere Ali. That the famous tacit chief
can assemble some hundreds at his back
should he so will was now well known to the
authorities ; but that his influence through
the Deccan is a thing that can be no longer
borne with is a fact thoroughly recognised.
It is true he rarely gathers together his
followers in such numbers as he can command
; but that he can put himself at the
head of a most formidable band at two or
three days' notice is now perfectly understood.

His tactics are those of the old
Highland veterans in our own country, who
sallied forth upon their reiving expeditions,
sped homeward with their plunder, and then
rapidly dispersed.

Shere Ali makes similar outbursts in unexpected
localities, and then, in like manner,
disappears with his booty, and is apparently
swallowed up in the adjacent jungles. The
marauder, too, has acquired a strange notoriety
through all that country. Information
driven detrimental to himself and his followers
has several times been punished with swift
and singular barbarity. The villagers are
shy of any allusion to his whereabouts or proceedings;
and his brigandage has attained
such an extensive scale as to augur pitiful
weakness on the part of any government that
fails speedily to repress it. Even the veteran
Hobson shook his head over it, and said, in
the course of his varied experience, that
Shere Ali was the most aggravating customer
he had ever had to deal with.

We have come across him once, Charlie,"
he said, as they jogged along one morning
at the head of their now mounted men, " or
else, upon my word, I should begin to think
this was quite a legendary chieftain ; but he
and his rapparees did shoot at us once ; and
we were very close upon their track a few
hours afterwards."

Yes," rejoined Charlie Devereux, " and
the massacre of poor young Blades and his
escort was a startling proof of Shere Ali
being very much alive and on the move;
but the dream will come true, Hobson, I
know it will ; we shall come up with him at
last; and then, if I know anything of the
temper of our fellows, they will be rather
hard to hold. They have hunted him for
many weary miles, and heard so many tales
of the atrocities of himself and his followers,
that I don't think there will be much
quarter given when the day of reckoning
does come."

No ; nor asked" said Hobson. " You

will see these fellows will die grimly as a
fox in a trap, and with a like snarl upon
their lips. But, halloa ! what the deuce is
up ? this looks like business of some sort."
And, as he spoke, Hobson pointed to one of
the advanced guard, who was riding back to
them as fast as his horse could carry him.

Now, Wilson, what is it ? "

Sergeant Rivers sent me back, sir," replied
the soldier, as he saluted, " to say that
he thought we were pretty close upon these
tacit chaps, this time. There's a pretty
sight when you get round the bend, sir;"
and the soldier pointed to the turn in the
road.

"Pass the word to close up, and sound
the attention, bugler," said Hobson. " Now,
what's round the bed, Wilson ?"

"Well, sir, we must have pretty near
caught these scoundrels at their hellish
work ; there's a tolerably strong travelling
party, some of 'em well-armed, too, who
have been massacred to a man. The sergeant

bid me tell you that he thought the
clacoits must be in considerable force."

Bring them on at a trot, Devereux, as
soon as they have closed up ; I'm going to
gallop forward and see what has taken place
yonder."

Accompanied by a soldier, Hobson galloped
forward, and the minute he rounded
the turn in the road the tragedy of the
morning lay exposed to his view. About a
score of men lay stretched upon the road,
weltering in their blood; and the whole
scene was easy of interpretation, as the
sergeant in charge of the advance guard at
once pointed out to Hobson. M These two
men here by the side of the road were
evidently the leaders of the party,"

Evidently Parsee traders," remarked
Hobson, as he dismounted from his horse,
"and the others their servants and an
escort of soldiers, whom they had hired to
protect them. They have apparently been

VOL. III. l

surprised and butchered to a man, without
offering much resistance."

"Just so," replied the sergeant, "there is
a stream just away to the right here, and
Shere Ali's people must have come upon
them while they were cooking their mid-day
meal under the trees by it."

I see; and these fellows fled into the
open, and were all cut down before they
could make any stand at all."

They weren't all killed quite in that way,
sir," replied the sergeant drily. " This
Baboon here was murdered in cold blood, and
tortured first ; look at his fingers, sir."

"I see," said Hobson, "it's an old trick of
theirs, burnt nearly off; they've bound them
in tow soaked with oil and then set fire to
them ; whether they've done it from sheer
devilry, because they didn't get so much
money as they expected, or quite as likely
to wring information from him about his
property, I don't know. Ha ! the other
fared very little better ; you can see the

mark of the cord round his neck ; they
half throttled horn before they killed him."

We can't have been very far from
catching them in the very act, sir," said the
sergeant.

You're right, Elvers, these bodies are
not yet cold. I don't believe these villains
can be above three or four hours ahead of
us, perhaps not even so much."

The robbers had done their work cleanly.
All the animals belonging to the murdered
party they had carried off with them, and
the dead had been stripped of everything
valuable about their persons. Nothing was
left but the corpses of the two traders, their
servants and escort, to tell the story of that
day's cruel work. By this time the remainder
of the troop had come up, and
were surveying the scene with critical eyes.
Old soldiers, most of them, who had been
through the fell fighting of the Mutiny, and
to whom the sight of a field strewn with
dead was no novelty.

l2

Not a wounded man amongst them''
growled one of these. tc These devils give
no quarter, and, if ever we do come up with
them, by "

They can't expect to get it. Look at
that, too," and the speaker and several of
his comrades gazed curiously at the charred
stumps of the hapless trader's fingers.

Now, Rivers," exclaimed Hobson, " I'm
going to push forward at once. On you go,
with your advanced guard ; keep your eyes
skinned, and of course fall hack the minute
you get touch of the enemy. I suspect
Shere Ali is at the head of a strong band
this time."

So little trouble had the robbers taken to
mask their movements that the way they
had taken was pretty evident. Some of the
soldiers, too, by this time had become clever
at scouting, and the best of these were riding
in the advanced guard ; a bare half-mile
from the scene of the massacre, and it was
evident that the marauders had left the

main road and struck across one of the
jungle-trails to the right.

It was farther pretty apparent, from the
horse-prints, that they were in considerable
numbers. Hobson had no doubt that, according
to his wont, Sere Ali, having placed
a hundred miles or so between himself and
the scene of his crime, would disband his
followers, with the exception of a trusted
few, and then betake himself to his secret
lurking-place, the whereabouts of which
so completely baffled his pursuers; but its
secret was well kept, and, so far, the Fering-lees
had got no hint of it. Hobson knew
that so long as he was close upon the trail of
his foe, and that Shere Ali kept at the head
of a numerous band, he would not be difficult
to follow ; but so soon as he dispersed
his rapscallions there would be great danger
of losing trace of him. It had happened so
near half a dozen times to patrols who had
deemed him within their grasp, and Hobson
had no doubt that upon the one occasion he

and Charlie Devereux had stumbled upon
the tacit chief, Shere Ali had but a mere
handful of men with him, and thence
the ease with which the wily Indian had
evaded him.

Keeping his men well in hand, Hobson
plunged into the jungle and followed fast
in the footprints of his flying foe. The men
were all on the qui vive, with both eyes and
ears alert for the slightest indication of the
robbers. Every man of them knew that
their ride must be both fast and far to give
them any hope of coming up with the tacit
chief. The immunity he had so far enjoyed
from the penalties of his crimes had been
so far in great measure due to the celerity
of his movements. He and his followers
invariably fled from the scene of their
murderous exploits by forced marches, and
Hobson and his troop had been too long
scouring the country in pursuit of him not
to know that to capture Shere Ali involved
beating him at his own tactics.

Silently they went on in the same monotonous
jog-trot, for Hobson had sternly
ordered that there should be no talking in
the ranks, and impressed upon his men that
their march must be conducted with as little
noise as possible. Mile after mile was thrown
behind them, and still the advanced guard
reported " no glimpse of the enemy." Still
the footprints of a large body of horses were
ever in their front. Hobson's face wore an
anxious expression, while young Devereux
chafed inwardly at what he irreverently
termed " the slowness of his captain."

If it had been left to him, he would have
advanced at a hand gallop, the result of
which would have been, that if he failed to
come up with the foe in less than two hours
the horses would have been about ridden to
a standstill, while if he did succeed in overtaking
them his men would have laboured
under the disadvantage of being upon half-blown
cattle.

However, Hobson had too much experience

to fall into any such error. If his
face wore a thoughtful expression it was
because he was calculating how much
longer he could jog along at the moderate
pace he was going without pulling up to
give men and horses a temporary rest. Experience
had taught him that the dacoits
managed to do with very short halts ; and
he and his men would he, therefore, constrained
to do the like. It was likely to bea
severe strain upon both men and horses
for six-ands thirty hours or more ; for perhaps
two days and nights, he calculated,
the whole party would have to do with very
little rest. "As for the men," thought Hobson,
" they must contrive to eat and sleep
in the saddle, but pull up to bait the horses
we must." Water, too, was becoming a
very serious consideration. The men's
water-bottles he knew must be pretty well
emptied; and then, again, what was to be
done about the horses ? he had no idea
where or when they would come upon it.

However, Hobson comforted himself with
the reflection that water was as necessary
to Shere Ali as to himself, and that the
dacoits must know of a stream on their
road. His mind was destined to be speedily
set at rest on one point. Suddenly, shots
were heard in the front, and the advanced
guard were seen falling rapidly hack.
Sergeant Rivers hurriedly reported that
they had come upon the rear of the dacoits,
apparently unexpected by the latter. The
marauders were marching in rather irregular
and desultory fashion, but closed up
and faced about the minute they discovered
their pursuers.

They mean fighting, sir, never fear,"
said the sergeant, as he finished his report.

Is there a large body of them ? " asked
Hobson.

'* Rather difficult to say, sir," replied the
sergeant ; " but they've formed across the
road."

Mr. Devereux," said Hobson, l( take ten

files, creep round the jungle to the right, so
as to take 'em in flank. I'm going to attack
in front at once ; but nothing demoralises
these black fellows like finding their assailants
have got round their flank. You had
better go with him, Rivers. One moment,
Devereux, get well round, remember, almost
towards their rear, before you attack ; never
fear but what you'll get plenty of fighting."

Charlie touched his helmet; moved rapidly
to the rear ; told off his score of men ; and
then, accompanied by Rivers, plunged into
the jungle. Hobson, without further delay,
at once dashed at his enemy in front ; but
the dacoits stood their ground, and evidently
meant to offer a stubborn resistance.

The English soldiers had dismounted, and,
in skirmishing order, had advanced rapidly
along the road, and had spread through the
jungle on either side of it. But the robbers
were much too cunning to keep on the road ;
they quickly resorted to the cover on either
side of it, and the rattle of the musketry

became now continuous. Taking advantage
of every tree, the soldiers closed rapidly in on
their foes, but the latter apparently had no
intention of meeting the Feringhees at close
quarters. They retreated sullenly before
them, at the same time yielding ground
slowly and disputing it yard by yard.

Charlie Devereux meanwhile was doing
his best to carry out his instructions, and,
though the rattle of the musketry made both
himself and his men impatient to take part
in the fray, yet he resolved in his own parlance
to "ride strictly to orders": which,
however, were made the more difficult to
carry out from the fact of the robbers falling
back, and which were destined to end most
unfortunately for Charlie. Shere Ali, flushed
with the successes which had attended his
late exploits, and finding himself — much
against his will — brought to bay, determined,
as he said, to read the Feringhees a
lesson. His force very much outnumbered
that of Hobson, and it had occurred to him to

put in practice the same manoeuvre that his
antagonists had employed. He had detached
quite a third of his force, under one of his
ablest lieutenants, with similar orders to
those of Devereux. The result was obvious ;
these two parties, each stealing round to fall
upon their adversary's right flank, must
come into contact. And Devereux and his
party, instead of surprising the robbers,
suddenly found themselves surrounded by
the enemy in numbers of fourfold their own
strength.

With a shout of " Follow me!" Devereux
dashed straight at the dacoits with the intention
of cutting his way through, and then
falling on the flank of the main body incompliance
with his instru actions. But weight
of numbers brought the English soldiers
back, and the result of a few minutes' sharp
fighting saw Charlie stretched senseless from
a sabre cut dealt by the grim old Rohilla who
led the enemy's flanking party. Sergeant
"Rivers, who was now left in command, made

two desperate charges in the hopes of at
least carrying Devereux off with him ; hut
it was in vain, the robbers were too numerous
for him ; and he was eventually driven back
on the main body, with the loss of half his
men.

But Hobson understood his business, and,
as soon as he had become aware of the fact
that his flank was turned, he fell back and
rapidly showed a front in the direction of his
fresh assailants; in short, the English formation
speedily became that of a somewhat
irregular square, and their leader confined
himself at present to the defensive. Hobson
and his men had not fought the Pandies for
nothing ; he had miscalculated the strength
of his antagonists, and had not calculated
upon Shere Ali's crafty manoeuvre, but he
laughed at the idea of the dacoits, however
numerous, breaking his formation. In
vain did Shere Ali urge on his men, and
exhort them not to spare the infidel dogs,
nor to leave a Feringhee alive to see the sun

go down. After one or two half-hearted
attempts the marauders recognised that the
Perishes were a very tough nut to crack ;
the deadly Fields scattered havoc in their
ranks, and they eventually recoiled, cowed
and discomfited. Shere Ali gnashed his
teeth with rage ; but he, too, was quick to
understand that the massacre of a troop of
English soldiers was a very different thins:
from that of a couple of troubadours and their
native escort. He drew off suddenly like a
wounded tiger baulked of his prey. And
Hobson took advantage of the lull to reckon
up his casualties. It had been a sharp brush,
and, though the dacoits were strewn pretty
thickly on the ground, yet his own loss was
considerable for an affair of this nature. He
was much concerned to hear that Charlie
Devereux had fallen, and no sooner were
the robbers fairly in retreat than Sergeant
Rivers and a party were sent out to bring in
their officer. It was possible he might not
have been killed ; and, at all events, it was

their duty to see they left no wounded
behind them. But the dacoits had made
sure work of the fallen, the wounded had
been butchered where they lay. One thing
only was extraordinary — Charlie Devereux,
whether dead or alive, had disappeared.

Hobson looked very grave when it was
reported to him that Mr. Devereux was
missing. Anything was better than this.
Shere Ali's ferocious character was well
known; and even the men felt that their
comrades who lay cold and stark in the
jungle had met with a more merciful fate
than was probably reserved for the officer
who had led them. That he had been
carried off by the dacoits there could be no
doubt. It was hardly likely that they would
have done this unless he had been alive.
And the toughest veterans among them
shook their heads ruefully over the sort of
mercy that Shere Ali was likely to mete out
to a captive in the hour of his defeat.
Hobson' s resolve was soon made; in half

an hour he was once more pressing on the
footsteps of his retreating foe ; he was resolved
to stick to Shere Ali's skirts till men
or horses gave out. He would track this
human tiger to his stronghold, or prevent
his ever reaching it. In face of a very hot
pursuit, it was possible that Shere Ali would
think it best not to betray the secret of his
citadel ; he was far too shrewd not to understand
that once known his capture became
a simple matter of a few days. The English
could bring up force to overwhelm him in a
marvellously short time. Hobson knew,
moreover, that his own party was only one
of a perfect chain of patrols, sent forth for
the capture of the tacit chief. " It was
odds," he thought, " if he could not capture
Shere Ali himself, he would succeed in
hunting him into the hands of some other
patrol of the cordon." And therefore he
continued to hang upon the trail of the
dacoits with untiring pertinacity.

CHAPTER X.

MRS. KYNASTON's DISAPPOINTMENT.

Bertie Slade walked away in a very
different state of mind from Onslow Gardens
to that in which he had arrived there.
What a fool he had been ! ingeniously
tormenting himself about Lettie's betrothal,
when all the while no such engagement ever
existed. Well, it was all right now, and
he cared little what became of Eurzedon,
though he felt pretty certain that Norman
Slade would take good care that righteous
retribution was dealt out to him. Then he
thought of how he had fallen into this
mistake. He was quite certain that it was
from Charlie he first heard of it; but he

VOL. Ill M

remembered what Lettie had said, " that
somebody must have put it into his head,
for that her brother was the last man to
arrive at such a conclusion from his own
observations.' ' And then it flashed across
him that he also had heard it from other
lips. Mrs. Kynaston had told him the same
story. "Was it not possible that Charlie's
knowledge of his sister's engagement had
been derived from the same source? He
turned this over in his mind as he walked
along. Charlie was very thick with Mrs.
Kynaston ; and Bertie remembered well it
was just after that flying visit of young
Devereux's to town that he told this bit
of news. " And, by heaven ! " muttered
Bertie to himself, " I recollect now. He
said he heard it from Mrs Kynaston ; and
remarked how odd it was that he should
have the first tidings of his sister's intended
marriage from any other but herself."

Bertie Slade looked at his watch. It was
early yet, he thought; he had still plenty

of time before dinner ; somehow he didn't
seem to have half so much to do as he
thought he had that morning. The fact
was the important part of his business in
town was already brought to a satisfactory
conclusion. He ought to call and wish Mrs.
Kynaston good-bye before he sailed. '- I'd
make any bet that this rumour was a bit of
her handiwork ; but why ? What object
could she have in setting such a report
afloat ? I shouldn't fancy her a mischievous
woman either." And still puzzling
over Mrs. Kynaston's motives Gilbert Slade
arrived at the little house in Mayfair, and
was forthwith ushered into Mrs. Kynaston's
drawing-room.

"Mr. Slade," exclaimed that lady, her
eyes sparkling with genuine pleasure, " it is
ages since I've seen or even heard of you.
Sit down, do, and give an account of yourself."


There is not much to be told," he replied
; " we got through the winter at York
m 2

pretty much as they always do up there.
We hunted all day and danced all night ;
rode as hard as we dared, and valued as long
as we could last."

"Well, you are not very much to be
pitied. We had the hunting, of course, but
as for our dances, they were as thinly spread
as the butter of our childhood. And now I
suppose you are up for some time ? "

"On the contrary, I have but three days'
leave; and, sad to say, have come to wish
you good-bye ; we sail for India in about
three weeks."

The colour faded out of Kate Kynaston's
cheeks as, in a low voice, she faltered out,
What is the meaning of this freak ?"

"I don't know' replied Slade; "but
it is a freak of the War Office, not of mine."

"What, the regiment is ordered out ?"

Yes, at monstrous short notice ; and, as
far as we can see, for no particular reason.
Pray don't suppose I am very enthusiastic
about it."

Nor, I am sure, are your many friends,"
rejoined the lady.

"Amongst whom I trust I may reckon
Mrs. Kynaston," said Slade.

"None truer, you know it," exclaimed
Kate, extending her hand, and flashing a
coquettish look at him from under her dark
eyelashes, that might have provoked most
men to philandering, if not to more passionate
love-making. But Gilbert Slade' s heart
was steeled. Not only was he wholly devoted
to another woman, but he held that
Mrs. Kynaston was the originator of the
report of Lettie's engagement, and had so
caused him months of unhappiness.

"It is very kind of you to say so," he
replied ; " we all like to think there is
some one who will miss us when we are
gone."

Yes ; and I for one shall miss you very
much. I have missed you so much during
the long and dreary winter ;" and, again, it
was impossible for any man to mistake the
challenge held forth to him.

"I am sorry," he replied, "that I was
unable to make my way into North Lincolnshire,
but Charlie Devereux's smash knocked
that little scheme on the head. By the way,
I had hoped to have seen his sister married
before I sailed ; I suppose the wedding will
take place before long, now."

"I should imagine so'' replied Mrs. Kingston,
a little shortly. "Was this man adamant,
that he should reply to such an opening
as she had vouchsafed him, by talking
of another woman's marriage ? " However,
I have not seen Miss Devereux since the
winter, and don't think she has arrived in
town as yet ; but never mind Lettie, tell me
all about yourself. When do you go, and
where are you going ?"

I have told you already all I know
about it; further than that, the Madras
Presidency is our destination."

It's always the same," replied Kate pettishly.
" It is never any use making friends
with a soldier; all my favourites are invariably
sent on foreign service."

Strictly speaking, Mrs. Kynaston's charms,
aided by her husband's weakness for play,
had made foreign service a necessary change
for more than one of her military admirers.
Still, in this case no such sin could be laid
against her. Gilbert Slade's acquaintance
with Dick Kynaston was of the slightest;
the Major had never invited him to touch
either card or cue ; and as we know, also,
even in Charlie's case, Kate had told her
husband outright that he must be allowed
to pass scatheless.

It's very good of you to class me in that
category," he said slowly at length. " It is
odd, though, as an intimate friend of Miss
Devereux's, that you should have fallen into
the mistake of believing her to be engaged
to Purzedon."

She felt that her lie was detected ; but it
was little likely that a woman Eke Mrs.
Kynaston would be put out of countenance
by a trifle like that. "Oh dear!" she said

pettishly, "what have I to do with Miss
Devereux's engagements ? I know she was,
it's quite likely she isn't now. Girls of her
age are quite capable of changing their
mind."

I don't think she lias changed her
mind," replied Bertie. " I don't think a girl
like Miss Devereux would be long making
up her mind about a man like Furzedon."

"And pray what do you know against
Mr. Purzedon ? "

I know," replied Bertie sternly, " what
I presume you know also, at all events, you
do if you are in your husband's confidence ;
you know his history, and you know the
expose that threatens him, and yet, knowing
all this, you have never warned your intimate
friend of the character of the man
whom you supposed to be hevjiance"

I don't understand to what you allude,
Mr. Slade," replied the lady, now thoroughly
angry. " If you are desirous of discussing

Miss Devereux's affairs, you had much
better talk them over with her. I am very-likely
misinformed about them."

"Perhaps so," said Gilbert; " or what is
more likely you have thought fit to misinform
other people. What has Miss Devereux
ever done to you that you should
persistently circulate that she was engaged
to such a scoundrel ? You need not deny
it."

I don't deny it," she cried, starting to
her feet ; "I would have done more than
that to part you two. Bertie, are you blind ?
Can you not see ? Don't you know you're
all the world to me?" and in the intoxication
of her passion she cast herself at his
feet.

Gilbert Slade rose and his voice fell cold
and stern on her ear, as in measured tones
he replied : " You must be weak and
hysterical to-day, or you would hardly talk
so wildly. You forget it's but a few months
ago that Charlie Devereux was your devoted

slave. Do you think you can whistle us all
to your lure at will? You have endeavoured
to come between me and Lettice, and while
I live I shall never forget it."

She was on her feet and her eyes sparkled
with fury as she motioned to him to go;
and as with a bow, which under the circumstances
seemed almost a mockery, he left the
room, she threw herself upon the sofa,
and grinding her teeth midst a torrent of
passionate tears once more vowed Gilbert
Slade should never wed Lettice Devereux
if she could prevent it.

It was in a very happy frame of mind
that Bertie sat down to dinner with his
uncle at the Thermopolium, but still it
cannot be said that he was overflowing
with kindliness to all humanity. Eor once
the attractive Mrs. Kynaston had most
thoroughly missed her mark, and far from
subduing Gilbert had simply aroused a
feeling of angry vindictiveness in his nature.
It was not that he would have said a word,

or stirred a finger towards her woe, but he
most assuredly would have felt little sympathy
at any social discomfiture that might
await her. He was not of a very soft or
impressionable nature, and he did consider,
as we know rightly, that she. had occasioned
him much unhappiness by the rumour of
which she was the originator.

Well, Bertie," said Major Braddock, as,
having finished his soup, he raised a glass
of sherry to his lips, " so the old regiment
is going to take a turn in the East. Good
heavens ! " he continued, putting his glass
hastily down, " look here, waiter, send the
wine butler here at once. How dare you
bring that sherry to me, Stephens ? " he
exclaimed, as that functionary made his
appearance. " It might have done for some
of the very young gentlemen, but not forme
; it's corked ; smell it."

I'm sure I'm very sorry, sir," replied
Stephens; "I decanters it myself, and I
detected nothing wrong with it."

Then you're not fit for your situation,"
retorted the Major sternly. " Change it at
once."

Certainly, sir;" and murmuring "I am

always very particular about your wine,

Major Braddock," Stephens retreated meekly.

It's very, very slightly touched," said

Bertie.

I know that," rejoined the Major, " and
there are plenty of men in the club who
wouldn't have detected it was touched at
all, but Stephens ought to know better than
to try it on me."

Gilbert thought that he himself would
probably have been one of those who would
have not detected it had he been dining by
himself, but he knew better than to interfere
with his gourmet uncle until he had
been pacified by a glass of sherry to which
even he could take no exception.

Well," said the Major, " India is a
place to see, and your getting your troop
just before going out makes it worth your

while. A captain really draws a decent income
out there ; after two or three years, if
you don't like it, we shall no doubt be able
to manage an exchange home for you."

Thanks," replied Gilbert, " but I shall
be home before that, I think. I'm as good
as engaged to be married."

"The deuce you are," replied Major Braddock
; " and who to, pray ? "

"To Miss .Devereux, Charlie's only sister."

Ah ! a very pretty girl, I've heard your
uncle Norman say ; but I say, Bertie, I trust
she hasn't got her brother's talent forgetting
through money, or you will be clean
broke before a couple of years are out."

I think there is no fear of that," replied
Gilbert laughing. " I must go out, you see,
but as, for a wonder, we don't happen to
have any war upon our hands, there will be
no trouble about getting home again."

Well, I always think soldiers are better
unmarried," rejoined the Major; "still,
when you've got your troop, I always said

you had a right to please yourself. I can
only sincerely trust you will he happy. I
know a little about old Devereux's affairs
from looking after his son's. That girl will
come into a comfortable little bit of money
some day." And then the conversation
turned into other channels chiefly relating
to the regiment, and which have no bearing
on this history. Once only did Gilbert
revert to the Devereux family, and then it
was to ask if any steps had been taken
about Charlie's difficulties. The Major
briefly gave him an account of his interview
with Jordan and Co. " The knowledge of
who Jordan and Co. actually are is a trump
card in our hands, for, sooner than face a
court of law, I have not the slightest doubt
Mr. Purzedon will abandon all claims to
usurious interest."

CHAPTER XI.

Good-bye, SWEETHEART, Good-bye."

Gilbert Slade made his appearance in
Onslow Gardens a good half-hour before
the luncheon hour ; and Mrs. Connop, who
hardly needed the hint that her niece vouchsafed
her, had discreetly left the drawing-room
to Miss Devereux's sole occupation.
If Gilbert had been somewhat vacillating
yesterday, he came very directly to the
point to-day.

You know what I have come for,
Lettice. I have come to say plainly what
I virtually said yesterday, and can only
trust that, in my joy at finding you free, I
did not read your feelings wrongly. Will

you marry me ? I love you very dearly,
and have done, I believe, ever since I first
knew you ; but it wasn't until I heard that
lying rumour that I discovered how very
much you were to me. Can you like me
well enough to say ' yes ' ? "

Miss Devereux hesitated only for a moment,
then frankly stretched out her hand,
and said simply, "Yes, I will be your wife."
An answer to which the victor at once
replied by seizing the spoils of war, and
pressing his lips to hers.

Then Miss Devereux sat demurely down,
and motioned him to a seat by her side ;
and the conversation became, although extremely
interesting to themselves, one that
would read insufferably dull upon paper.
There are some things best left to the
imagination ; and it is a question whether
our own experiences don't suggest more tous
than all books can tell. I don't think,
beyond the fact that their marriage could
not take place for some little time, they

gave much heed to future arrangements,
which was, perhaps, as well, as it is difficult
to say what changes a few months may
make in one's plans.

When Mrs. Oonnop came into the room,
Gilbert lost no time in telling her of Lettie's
promise to be his wife. " Of course," he
said, diplomatically, " there are yourself and
her father and mother to be consulted. As
far as I am concerned, I am my own
master. My parents are both dead, but I
told my uncle, Major Braddock, about it
last night "

How could you," interrupted Lettice,
laughing ; " what dreadful audacity ! You
couldn't be sure I should say ( yes.' "

Pray don't think you were compromised,"
rejoined Gilbert, gaily. " I only
told him what I intended to do ; that I
had almost as good as asked you, and that
I had hopes of a favourable answer. Well,
Mrs. Connop, you know uncle Bob is a good
sort ; you know how he stood to Charlie.

VOL. III. N

Well, he wished me joy, and I feel quite
sure my uncle Norman — he has seen you,
remember, Lettice — will say the same in
his own way. I only trust, Mrs. Connop,
you can say the same on your side."

My dear Mr. Slade," replied that lady,
in quite a little fluster of pleasure and
excitement, " you have both my most hearty
good wishes, and I shall be only too charmed
to welcome you as a nephew. I cannot, of
course, answer for my brother ; but I don't
think it is likely that he will not be equally
pleased to receive you into the family."

Thank you," replied Bertie, quietly, " I
always felt 1 could rely upon you, and I
hope I have a satisfactory story to tell to
Mr. Devereux."

I have not the slightest doubt of it ;
but now, young people, do come to lunch,
you may not have time to be hungry, but I
both have and am."

A very merry party was that in the
dining-room that afternoon. Mrs. Connop

insisted that the occasion required a bottle
of champagne ; and, let devotees of the Blue
Ribbon League rave as they will, that does
impart a liveliness to conversation.

Things were discussed in a much more
business-like way under the auspices of Mrs.
Connop than they had been by the young
couple in the drawing-room. And that
Gilbert should go out to India and return
within a year for the wedding was definitely
settled.

"Stop, I tell you what, Mrs. Connop,"
suddenly exclaimed Bertie, " I've got an
idea. I must go back to York, because
there's such a deuce of a lotto do, and, though
the chief is as good as gold about leave, it
stands to reason the work must be done.
Now I shall see awfully little of Lettice
before I sail; if you wouldn't mind it you
would be real good-natured, and if Mr.
Devereux says it's all right, you, might run
down to Portsmouth and see us off."

My goodness, Mr. Slade, that is rather
n 2

a startling proposal. I don't think I quite
see my way to that."

It's quite easy, I assure you, Major
Braddock is sure to come down, and I will
guarantee would be only too pleased to take
charge of you. I'll take very good care
that you get a line from him volunteering
his services; and don't be afraid, Lettice,
you won't be awfully well taken care of, as
far as eating and drinking goes, while you're
under his charge."

Miss Devereux and her aunt were both
too well aware of the Major's pet weakness
not to smile at this recommendation, and
Mrs. Connop at length was induced to say
she would think it over, and, if possible,
run down to see the last of him."

"Amuse you. I am sure, Mrs. Connop,"
said Gilbert; " a rather strange mixture are
the good-byes on those occasions. If some
of them are made with laughter and toast-drinking
there are others made with tears
and broken words. However, our good-bye

is not likely to be of that sort ; we are not
going campaigning, and there is nothing to
prevent our friends giving us a real cheery
God speed."

By the time this was satisfactorily arranged
Gilbert discovered that it was time
for him to go. He had two or three things
yet to arrange before leaving town, so he
bade his fiancee a hasty adieu, shook hands
heartily with Mrs. Connop, dashed downstairs,
and jumped into the first hansom he
came across.

Her very unsatisfactory interview with
Gilbert Slade had aroused all Mrs. Kingston's
energies. It was possible that Miss
Devereux was in town, although she had
not as yet heard it, but Mrs. Kynaston
determined that that was a point she would
lose no time in clearing-up, and with this
object the next day she drove down to
Onslow Gardens to call upon Mrs. Consonant
arrived there a bare half-hour after
Gilbert had left the house. She was not

surprised to find in answer to her inquiries
that Miss Devereux was in town. Thinking
the whole thing over, she had felt pretty
certain, not only that she must be, but that
Gilbert had seen her, and an understanding
of some sort had been arrived at between
the pair. Both ladies she was informed
were at home, and she accordingly followed
the servant upstairs.

Persistent believer as she had always
affected to be in Miss Devereux's engagement
to Eurzedon, yet it had never occurred
to Lettie to suspect Kate of having industriously
set about the rumour, and therefore
she was received with great cordiality.
Mrs. Connop had never quite liked Mrs.
Kynaston, but she was so elated by the
event of the morning that she would have
welcomed any one warmly. While, as for
Lettie, she was only too pleased to feel that
it was now in her power to convince her
friend of the absurdity of the idea of her
ever marrying Mr. Purzedon.

I have been barely in town a^eek,"
said Lettie, in answer to Mrs. Kynaston's
reproaches of not acquainting her with her
own arrival. " I should have been round to
see you in a day or two, but it was very nice
of you to call to-day. You are always
speculating on my marriage. Well, I have a
bit of news for you. I am really encased."

Mrs. Kynaston paused for a moment
before she replied. Although expecting
something of the sort, she was not prepared
for an open avowal of the engagement. It
was with difficulty she preserved her composure,
as she replied, " Pray accept my
congratulations, and don't be surprised at
my not asking the name of the happy man.
He came down to take a sentimental leave
of me yesterday afternoon, and I have no
doubt was engaged in paying a round of
such visits. I pretty well gathered how his
leave-taking here had terminated."

Lettice started as if she had been stung ;
she had had her tiffs with Kate Kynaston,

no doubt, but she did regard her as her
most intimate friend, and had expected her
congratulations would be both honest and
thorough, but there was no mistaking the
half-sneer in Mrs. Kynaston's speech, nor
could any one fail to notice the cold half-mocking
tones in which the conventional
words were spoken. Mrs. Kynaston was a
good actress, but for once in her life the
blow had been too severe, and for the
moment she had involuntarily dropped the
mask. She repented almost as soon as the
words had passed her lips, but for the
minute she could not for the life of her
have said otherwise.

I don't think Mr. Slade had time to pay
quite as many calls as you suggest, nor even
if he did say good-bye to a few of his friends
do I suppose his partings were quite of the

character you describe."

*.

61 Yes," chimed in Mrs. Connop, sharply,
Lettie is a very lucky girl. Mr. Slade will
get his troop almost immediately, and it will

all do very nicely ; at all events, we are very
pleased with it, are we not, Lettie ? "

And with good reason," cried Mrs. Kingston,
who had by this time quite recovered
herself. " I congratulate you with all my
heart, Lettie ; though," she continued, with a
comical little grimace, and a shrug of her
shoulders, " it is rather hard to have one of
one's pet admirers taken from one in this
fashion."

I can't call to mind his ever figuring
quite in that way as regards you," replied
Miss Devereux.

Now, don't he touchy, Lettres' said
Mrs. Kynaston, laughing. " It's only my
way, you know; besides, he is formally
declared your property now, though I am
afraid you will see but little of him before
he sails."

We are to go down to Portsmouth and
see the last of him," said Mrs. Connop.
He was always a great favourite of mine,
and, as he says, ' this is only saying good-bye

for a few months and there is no fighting
going on, so we've no cause to feel anxious
about him."

All very nice' rejoined Mrs. Kynaston,
but I must be going now. Good-bye,
Lettie, I am sure I wish you every happiness,
and you mustn't begrudge Mr. Slade
having come to say good-bye to me. I aman
old friend of his, you know. Good-bye,
Mrs. Connop, early days for her to be
jealous, isn't it?" and with a gay laugh
Mrs. Kynaston sailed out of the room.

And I thought that woman my friend!"
exclaimed Lettie. " Did you ever hear anything
like her, aunt ? her congratulations
were a mere mockery. Jealous ! No, I'm
not that ; but Kate was doing, and would
do, her very best to make me so, if she only
had the opportunity."

I never did like her," replied Mrs.
Connop, " but as for the jealousy, my dear,
it was all on her side. She is very much put
out at your engagement, depend upon it."

Mrs. Kynaston had been unable to avoid
betraying herself, though she would fain
have done otherwise. She was too angry
with the affianced pair to listen to the announcement
of their happiness with patience.
The rejection of her precious spikenard is a
sore trial for any woman's temper, but the
full measure of her wrath is sure to be
reserved for that one of her sisters who
brought such discomfiture about.

The brief interval soon slips away, and
the gallant — th are in all the turmoil that
the order for foreign service invariably
evolves. The sale of their horses was, as is
always the case, the worst ever known.
Who cares to buy hunters at the end of the
hunting season. As young Sparshot pithily
remarked, u They wouldn't have lost much
more, and it would have been far more
graceful to have shot the lot in the barrack-yard,
and sent them over to the kennels to
feed the hounds they had followed so well."
Unsatisfied creditors thronged the barrack-yard,

excessively anxious for the settlement
of their little accounts, or at least some
security for them, occasioning much care
and anxiety to those gay soldiers who had
lived up to the traditional maxim, and
spent half a crown out of sixpence a day."
It is ever so ; and, when great military
authorities tell you that the army is ready
for active service to the last buckle and
gaiter-strap, I fear the officer's private
affairs are rarely taken into consideration.
However, all these little difficulties are over
at last, the sickly men have been cast by
the doctors, the depot has been formed, and,
leaving this latter behind them, the service
strength of the regiment was duly trained
down to Portsmouth.

That there should be no particular enthusiasm
about their embarkation was but
natural. They were not going out to take
part in a big fight, nor were bands ringing
out the spirit-stirring melodies which such
occasions invariably give rise to ; but for all

that there are always plenty of people who
flock to see one of our British regiments
embark, and start them on their voyage
with a ringing cheer.

Upon arrival at Portsmouth the — th
marched to the dockyard, where the " Semiramis"
was lying alongside the quay. The
gigantic steamship speedily engulfed them
between her capacious decks, and then
Gilbert had time to look round for those
who had come to see him off. He had
waved his hand to Lettie and her escort as he
marched his troop on board, but as soon as
the men had settled down he and several of
his brother officers rushed ashore to welcome
the friends who had come to see them off.

M Ah ! Bertie, my boy," exclaimed the
Major, " glad to see they are sending you
out like a gentleman. None of your beastly
little tubs, but a slashing big ship. They
tell me you sail at daybreak ? "

Yes, that is so," replied Gilbert; "but
come on board now, Mrs. Connop, ladies

always like looking round a ship, and there
is a sort of nondescript meal will take place
in the saloon within an hour'*

"Yes," said Miss Devereux, "I should
like to do that. Do you know the other
day you quite forgot to tell me how Charlie's
affairs were going on."

So I did," replied Gilbert ; " hut you at
all events must allow it was excusable. "

Well, never mind now. I asked Major
Braddock about them as we came down, and
he says they will be arranged before very
long. Father will have to pay a good bit of
money for him ; but it's a great thing that
he hadn't to leave the army."

Yes," replied Gilbert; but here the conversation
was interrupted by Major Braddock,
who exclaimed " I am sorry to say we
shall have to cut our leave-taking very
short. The Captain has just told me, Bertie,
that, though you don't what is called sail
till daybreak, he is going to get his ship
out of harbour at once, and anchor for the

night in the open water." And here the
warning cry of " all strangers for shore,
please," smote upon their ears.

There is always a shade of sadness in
saying good-hye on such occasions, and I
for one hold that the " sweet agony of
parting" should never be unduly prolonged.
Gilbert shook hands with Mrs. Connop and
his uncle, clasped Lettie in his arms, kissed
her warmly, and whispered into her ear,
Don't forget to write constantly, dearest,"
and then handed her over to the Major's
charge. She stole her hand once more into
his as she murmured " God for ever bless
you, dearest," and leaving a small parcel in
his palm tripped hurriedly across the gangway.


"When Gilbert unfolded his prize a little
later it contained a gold locket with the
monogram of " L. D." upon one side, while
within was coiled a lock of Lettie's chestnut
tresses.

CHAPTER XII.

HOBSON RECOVERS THE TRAIL.

When Charlie Devereux came to himself,
he found himself being borne along in a
rude palanquin, the property of the grim
old Rohilla who had cut him down. He
was dizzy, confused, and his head still
swam a good deal from the sabre-stroke,
the force of which, luckily for him, had
been considerably broken by his helmet.
He had lost a good deal of blood, but his
head had been bound up for him roughly
in a damp cloth. As soon as he could
collect his faculties sufficiently he began
to wonder what he had been spared for,
and with the remembrance of that scene
by the roadside he could not but fear

that it would have been better for him had
he been slain outright. Soon he perceived
that there was an animated discussion going
on between two men, who were mounted on
very good horses, and evidently men of note
amongst the robbers. One he recognised at
once ; it was the tacit chief to whom he
had been opposed, against whom he had
stood foot to foot and sabre to sabre, with
what dire results we have seen. The other
was a little wiry man of middle height, and
a countenance somewhat striking. You
were puzzled at first to know what it was
repelled you in it ; the man was well-favoured
enough, but his fellows seldom saw
him for the first time without his producing
an uneasy feeling in their minds; but at
last it dawned upon you, it was the cruel,
restless eyes. That his companion paid him
considerable deference was apparent, but
that it was Shere Ali himself Charlie was
not aware until somewhat later. Could
he but have overheard the tenor of their

VOL. III. o

conversation it would not have done much
to comfort him as regarded his present
position.

You were wrong, Hassam, to spare this
dog of a Feringhee. Do you suppose this
one life would save our necks if we fell into
their hands ? No ; depend upon it, our lives
are forfeited if ever they trap us."

But I don't counsel that his life should
be spared altogether. For the present, yes,
because we want some information from
him. The pursuit of us has thickened, and
there are now many more parties of the
Feringhees scouring the country than there
used to be."

True, and this lot behind us, in spite of
the warm reception we gave them, are by no
means done with. We ought to have eaten
them up this morning."

True," replied the Rohilla, " but these
children of Sheridan are obstinate as pigs,
and moreover love fighting."

"You are right, Hassam, we will make

the Sahib tell us all we want to know as
soon as he has a little recovered himself."

And if he refuses to speak ? " said the
Rohilla interrogatively.

It will be the worse for him," retorted
Shere Ali. " We have ways to make men
open their mouths he little woes of."

Hobson's determined pursuit, however,
left Shere Ali small leisure for indulging his
peculiar method of questioning a prisoner.
If the dacoits halted for long, Hobson was
sure to disturb them, and though, in consequence
of their great superiority of numbers,
he was cautious in his attacks, still he never
failed to attack, and after a sharp skirmish
Shere Ali and his followers were always
again rapidly retreating. It was in vain the
tacit chief endeavoured to urge on his band
to overwhelm their relentless foe. It was
useless. The robbers, although they behaved
well enough in a skirmish, could not
be brought to face the Feringhees in real
earnest. The pursuit had now endured
o2

something like forty-eight hours, and, as
Hohson recognised, could not much longer
be maintained. Both men and horses were
getting utterly used up, and the one ray of
hope he had of ultimately capturing Shere
Ali lay in the fact that the dacoits he knew
must be getting nearly as beat as his own
people.

Suddenly he began to suspect his prognostications
were realised. They came to a
place where from the main road two smaller
tracks diverged through the jungle, and, as
the scouts pointed out, from the footprints
of the horses it was evident that the robbers
here had broken into three parties. It was
just what Hobson feared. Despairing of
shaking off his persistent pursuit, Shere Ali
had commenced to disband his followers.
The hunted tacit was evidently afraid to
divulge the secret of his lair, and had probably
after disbanding his men sought its
shelter with but a few of the most trusted.
Could he but come up with them now,

Hobson thought, his capture would be
easier, as he had little doubt his own party
far outnumbered that of the robber chief ;
but which of these three tracks to take ?
they had no peculiar mark by which to recognise
the footprints of his horse from that
of any other; it was a sheer toss-up, and
after a brief delay Hobson decided to follow
on hap-hazard. Two or three hours more
steady riding : the men are nodding in their
saddles, the tired horses blundering in their
steady jog-trot, when suddenly they emerged
from the jungle, on a broad highway which
was instantly recognised as the main road
from Secunderabad to Nagpore, and which
way the party they had followed had taken,
whether they had gone up the road towards
Nagpore, or down the road towards Secunderabad,
there was nothing to show. It was
hopeless to carry on the pursuit further ; a
village could be descried not a mile away,
and where there was a village there was
sure to be water. Hobson marched his

troop as far as the outskirts and then gave
the order to his worn-out men to bivouac
for the night.

At daybreak the next morning Hobson
was awakened with the news that there
were horsemen coming up the road. He
received the announcement with but little
interest, it was not likely that the dacoits
would move for any length of time in any
numbers along that road, and he guessed at
once that it was only another patrol similar
to his own. A glance through his field-glasses
at once confirmed this, with the trifling
exception that the new-comers were evidently
regular cavalry, and not mounted infantry.
When they had arrived within a very short
distance the officer commanding them rode
forward, and, addressing Hobson, said
u I don't know whom I have the pleasure of
speaking to, but I presume you are in command
of one of the patrols in pursuit of
this scoundrel Shere Ali. We are only just
out from England, and have been packed
off to join in the hunt."

All ! " replied the other, wearily. " I've
been hunting him for months and months ;
if I had but come across you twenty-four
hours ago."

"Why— did you get news of him ?" inquired
the new-comer, with interest.

News ol him ! " replied Hobson. " I've
been at his heels and fighting with him
these two days. Pour times I've brought
him to bay, but his numbers just saved him
from destruction, and after a short skirmish
he always bolted again."

"Both your men and cattle look as if
they had had a gruelling." said the newcomer,
as he compared the travel-stained,
way-worn appearance of Hobson's band with
his own trim-looking troopers.

"Yes," rejoined Hobson. " I drove both
my horses and men pretty well to a standstill
yesterday. The worst is that crafty devil
Shere Ali played his old trick on us to finish
up with. He broke up his band into there
divisions, each of which followed a different

route, and it has ended by our losing all
trace of him."

u By Jove, what bad luck ! " exclaimed
the dragoon. " I wish to heavens I had
come across you a bit sooner. By the way,
do you know anything of a great friend
of mine, who, like yourself, has been at
this game for some months, one Charlie
Devereux ? "

Devereux — my God ! Yes ; he is my
subaltern," and Hobson's face became very
grave and stern.

cc Then I fancy you and I know each
other perfectly well by name. I am Gilbert
Slade, and, if I mistake not, you are John
Hobson?"

"Yes, I've heard plenty about you; poor
Charlie never tired of talking "

"Why do you say poor Charlie ?" interrupted
Slade, anxiously ; " he has not been
killed, has he?"

"No, worse than that has happened to
him. I believe him to be a prisoner of

Shere Ali's ; and you've probably heard
enough of that monster's brutalities to know
what that means."

Gilbert's face fell. All that side the
country was alive with stories of Shere Ali's
sanguinary doings.

u I am of course under your orders," he
said at length. " I was told to patrol
towards Nagpore, on my own account, until
I fell in with some other patrol, and then to
take my instructions from the officer commanding."


Well, you can't do better than halt your
men here, and breakfast. I must try and
get some information out of these villagers
before I move on. The worst of it is this
scoundrel has created such a reign of terror
that it is difficult to induce the villagers to
disclose what they know. Generally, a
lavish offer of rupees would suffice to make
them betray any tacit chief, but this
Shere Ali has taken such ferocious vengeance
on those whom he has detected giving

any information about his proceedings that
they tremble at the very sound of his name ;
however, I have sent a sergeant to bring out
the khotwal and any other of the leading
villagers he thinks might possibly have
information, and I must try if threats and
bribery will do anything with them.' ,

Gilbert Slacle looked very grave when he
heard that Charlie was in the hands of
Shere Ali. It would have been a terrible
thing to have to write to Lettie and tell her
that her brother had fallen in a skirmish
with a gang of dacoits, but it would be too
terrible if his death should be preceded by
the infernal cruelties practised by Asiatic robbers.
No, he thoughts if their worst anticipations
were realised, his family should beat
all events spared such knowledge.

It was not long before Sergeant Rivers
returned, bringing with him some half-dozen
of the leading men of the village,
including its khotwal or headman.

They all swear they know nothing, sir,"

said the sergeant ; " but," he continued,
dropping his voice, so that only Hobson and
Slade, who was sitting by, could hear him,
"here is a huckster among them who, I
think, knows something, and might be
brought to tell it if you see him alone."

What makes you think that, Rivers ? "
inquired his captain.

Why, when the interpreter had got
them all together, and was cross-questioning
them, this fellow's little eves twinkled when
he heard that many rupees would be given
for any information leading to the capture
of Shere Ali. Like the rest of them he
swore he knew nothing about him, but he
hung about the doorway, and as I came out
of the khotwal's house he said in a low
tone, ' What would the Sahib give to catch
the tacit chief ?' I answered at once, one
thousand rupees ; but he shook his head and
muttered, ' Not enough, it is too dangerous,'
so I said to myself, I'll just bring you along
with me, my man."

Quite right," rejoined Hobson, " I'll see
horn in two or three minutes."

Ck Smart fellow that sergeant ! " remarked
Slade. "Do you think he is right in his
conjecture?"

Quite likely, he is a shrewd fellow ; he
has been for many years in this country and
understands the natives thoroughly — he
speaks their tongue too a bit."

The villagers were now brought one by
one before Hobson, beginning with their
headman, who was sternly informed that
Shere Ali had been traced to their immediate
vicinity, that there were a thousand
rupees for the man whose information led
to his capture, that it was useless to pretend
that they had no knowledge of him, that
the Government had resolved to make a
severe example of the first village found
sheltering or assisting him, and that he had
little doubt they had at all events been
guilty of this latter.

One by one they protested by all their

gods that they had no knowledge of this
Shere Ali, that they loathed his very name,
that he spread desolation on all the country
round, and that they only hoped His Excellency
would speedily deliver them from this
wild beast who devoured them. One by one
they were dismissed with a recommendation
to make their way back to their own village,
and a menace that they would live to pay
the penalty of their obstinate silence.

Dogs ye are, and dog's deaths ye shall
die," thundered Hobson in eastern hyperbole.
"Your tongues have denied the truth,
and you know that you have lied in your
beards. Away, back to your village, and
pray that I burn it not over your heads ere
the week be past."

I say," said Gilbert, as the discomfited
villagers, having now permission to depart,
slunk down the hill, " you are giving full
play to your imagination, aren't you ? "

"Yes," rejoined Hobson, laughing, "it's
the only way to talk to these beggars. I

have no doubt they know perfectly well
where Shere Ali has betaken himself, but
they are afraid to tell. Their own rulers
would not only threaten all I have done, but
thoroughly mean it. And I fancy in the
early days of the century our own people
would have done the same."

Still," said Gilbert Slade, "you haven't
got a bit of information out of them yet.
What are you going to do with this last
man ? "

"Why, to tell you the truth," replied
Hobson, "a good deal of all this bombast
has been for his special benefit. You see
he has been within earshot all the time,
and has been purposely given the opportunity
of speaking to his fellows after I
have talked to them. We'll have him up
now, and if I don't wring something out of
him I must fairly own I'm beat, and the
following of Shere Ali will become a mere
matter of chance; and yet," he continued,
lowering his voice, " there never was such

reason that we should follow fast upon his
track."

The Bunnea or petty trader was now
brought before Hobson, and replied to the
latter's exordium by the same protestations
of ignorance as his fellows, except that he
was, if possible, even more profuse in such
asseverations. Hobson listened unmoved
until he had finished, and then said " Your
lies are useless. You have asked what will
I give to know where I can lay hands on
Shere Ali. Men don't ask what you will
give unless they have something to sell.
You haggled at the price, and say it is too
dangerous."

My lord has been misinformed," exclaimed
the Bunnea trembling with terror.

I think not ; unlucky for you if it is so.
You had better listen attentively to what I
say. I shall take you into the jungle with
me. If I find Shere Ali you shall have two
thousand rupees, and I can safely promise
you need never dread his vengeance. If I

don't," said Hobson sternly, u I'll leave you
in the jungle for the crows to feed upon."

In vain the wretched Bunnea prostrated
himself at Hohson's feet, while the sweat
streamed down his brow from absolute
terror.

Take him away," said the latter sternly,
and let him be closely guarded. We'll
march in an hour."

CHAPTER XIII.

FTJRZEDON LEAVES ENGLAND.

Norman Slade was by no means the man
to let the grass grow under his feet in any
matter of business, more especially when it
came to bringing a criminal to justice, and
that criminal one who had cost him a considerable
sum of money. No sooner had he
got a case against Furzedon complete than
he exerted all the interest he possessed
amongst the leading men of the Turf to induce
them to make the Jockey Club take
the matter up, and, averse though that august
body were to taking cognisance of an affair
that had happened so many months ago,
and about which their verdict — whatever it

VOL. III. P

might be — could in reality make now no
difference. The thing was done, stakes and
bets had all been paid, and nothing they
could possibly do could undo the transaction.
Let it be never so great a fraud, let it be
never so shameful a robbery, nevertheless it
was a thing accomplished, it was a fact of
the past ; and those who had profited by it
must keep the gains, and those that had lost
by it must abide by their losses.

Quite true, argued those who had taken
up the case, but on the same principle what
criminal would ever be brought to justice?
The murder is done, the felony committed ;
the life cannot be restored, nor in most cases
the goods recovered ; but that is accounted no
reason why the perpetrators of either should
go scatheless. Then, again, the Jockey Club
sympathies were not much in favour of Mr.
William Smith. That gentleman, with his
coarse braggart tongue and inebriate habits,
was constantly giving great offence and
using the grossest language to their officials;

except to those pecuniarily interested,
his defeat at Epsom was matter of much
granulation. But the persistency of Norman
Slade's friends prevailed, and it was at last
decided that the case should be duly brought
before the Jockey Club at the second Spring
Meeting.

But when Slade marshalled his facts, had
assembled his witnesses, and due notice was
given to Ralph Furzedon of the charges intended
to be preferred against him, and an
intimation that if he did not disprove them
the Jockey Club would have no other course
to pursue but to punish such misdeeds to
the extent of their power, an answer came
back from his solicitor to the effect u That
Mr. Furzedon had been suddenly ordered
abroad for his health ; that there was no
chance of his return for some months ; and
that he must request that all proceedings
should be staved until his client's return;
that he felt no doubt of Mr. Furzedon's
ability to rebut them, but in the present
p2

state of his health it would he impossible
for him to return to England." This was
conclusive ; in a case of this kind it was
useless to proceed against a criminal who
not only refused to plead, hut further was
"beyond the hounds of jurisdiction. Even
Norman Slade — though a fierce malediction
broke from his lips as he did so — admitted
that it was useless to proceed against a man
to whom the sentence of the court must he
a mere form.

Eurzedon calculated on this ; if he kept
well out of the way, the prosecution against
him — so to speak — would he dropped. Even
Norman Slade would throw up his brief
when he found there was no criminal to
place in the dock. Another year and the
whole thing would he thoroughly forgotten ;
he might return to England. And though
he felt that for a time he must eschew the
race-course, much as he loved it, yet there
would he no public scandal. It might be a
little talked about in society, but probably

only to a limited extent. Things of
that sort were but a few days' wonder,
and on his return people would be much
more curious to know where he had been,
and what he had been doing, than to recall
that unsavoury story concerning him which
was current about the time he left.

But, if Norman Slade was bitterly disappointed
at Eurzedon having slipped through
his fingers, there was another upon whom
it exercised a perfectly morbid effect. The
hatred of years was concentrated in Prance's
mind, that thirst for vengeance against
the man who rightly or wrongly he accused
of the ruin of his home and his life he had
looked upon as about to be satiated, and
now once again, after all his patience, toil,
and trouble, had his enemy proved too clever
for him. He quite pestered Norman Slade
with his entreaties that he should persevere
with the case ; it was in vain. Slade told
him it was hopeless to think that the Jockey
Club would go into such a by-gone matter,

unless the delinquent could be brought before
them. Prance was wild at the idea of
being baulked of his vengeance, and Norman
could not but wonder what wrongs he had
received at Purzedon's hands that had provoked
such undying enmity. He remembered
the man's fierce outburst in the
Paddock at Doncaster when he had questioned
him about what he expected to get
for the information he proffered, and at the
last interview he had with the half-frenzied
man could not but think that he should not
count his own life very safe was there a
man walking about bearing such deadly
hatred towards him.

On one point Mr. Purzedon was considerably
out in his calculations. The history of
his antecedents and misdoings was known to
far too many people not to be pretty widely
bruited abroad. Through club smoking-rooms
and West-end drawing-rooms the
story of how last year's Derby had been
lost was freely canvassed, and that the chief

actor in that audacious robbery should have
been one who had actually contrived to
appear on the outskirts of society tickled
society not a little. Young men who found
themselves lifted into a temporary importance
from the fact that they had happened
to know Furzedon were cross-examined as to
his personal appearance, and as to whether
they really did not detect from his manner
that he kept a shop. " So shocking, you
know, and a pawnbroker's shop too ! " that
useful but retiring business being regarded ina
sinister light by the fashionable world, who
believe its dealings to consist chiefly of the
receiving and disposing of stolen property.

Mrs. Kynaston, with her usual astuteness,
at once made the most of such cards as
Fortune put into her hand. She went about
posing as a perfect martyr, a sorely-tried
woman, whose burden was almost greater
than she could bear. " It's terrible, my
dear," she would exclaim plaintively to her
intimates, "to think that we knew Mr.

Purzedon at all, but I am ashamed to say
we knew him very well ; that's the worst of
racing. Dick is so fond of it, and he does
pick up such queer acquaintances on the
Turf. The first intimation we had of it all
was from Mr. Slade; we didn't know him,
but he knew that Dick and this dreadful
man were mixed up in some racing transactions
together, and so he called and told
him what he had discovered. I need scarcely
say Dick at once told Mr. Purzedon he need
never expect to set foot in our house again ;
but, if it is terrible for me, what must it befor
poor Miss Devereux ? My heart quite
bleeds for her, poor girl; she was engaged
to him, you know. I suppose it is all off
now ? Poor Lettie, it is very sad for her."

The result of Mrs. Kynaston's failings
was that the report of Lettie's engagement
to Purzedon, which had somewhat died
away, was again revived, and it really
ran a chance of having the effect that lady
designed. No two men could be more

thoroughly up in the talk of the town than
Gilbert's two uncles. They mixed in very
different sets, and neither of them very
much affected ladies' society ; but there is
not much that goes on in the London world
that is not freely discussed in club smoking-rooms
; and amongst these Major Braddock
passed a great deal of his time, while at the
chief rendezvous of the magnates of the Turf
it was well known that the latest scandal is
invariably served up red-hot, and Norman
was a member of that caravameri. In the
ordinary course of events, neither Slade
nor Major Braddock would have beard this
rumour — the actors in it were not of sufficient
importance in society to attract attention
to it out of their own immediate circle ;
but, thanks to the threatened charge against
Eurzedon, anything connected with him
became of greater interest when, in due
time, it came to their ears. Had they not
both had some knowledge of Miss Devereux
it was very probable that they would

have written to Gilbert to urge him to pause
before taking to wife a damsel who had
transferred her affections with such wondrous
facility ; but, as it was, they saw no
call for interference ; and so far Mrs. Kynaston's
tattling resulted in nothing more
than considerable annoyance to Mrs. ,
who was constantly goaded to madness
by the commiseration expressed by her
friends about her niece's disappointment.

Prance, ever brooding over his wrongs,
ever hating, ever thinking of this man, who
had been his undoing, determined that he
must see him, that he must jeer at him,
flout him with his social downfall. Cunning
and astute, he had known that, if his vengeance
could be carried no further, the
utter demolition of Ralph Eurzedon's social
pedestal would be very bitter to that gentleman,
and a thing over which he could gloat
with much satisfaction. For years he had
hugged the idea to his heart of ruthlessly
exposing Purzedon, of letting the world

know generally who and what this young
gentleman was that it was so cordially receiving
to its bosom ; to pitilessly expose
the family from which he sprang ; the way
in which he and his progenitors had earned
their wealth ; hut all this was small satisfaction
unless he was there to exult over
his victim in his downfall. He had waited
patiently because he feared that nobody
would pay heed to his allegations ; and it
was not till he had tracked out Eurzedon ina
seat Turf fraud that he deemed he could
command a hearing. Well ! he had obtained
it, and now in the hour of his victory Ralph
Furzedon had fled from the consequences of
his crime. Still, Prance was aware that, if
he had not altogether succeeded in publicly
exposing "Purzedon, yet that he had done
enough to ruin him socially. There had
been plenty of paragraphs in the sporting
papers with allusions to the grave charges
impending against a young gentleman well
known in racing circles. Later paragraphs

contained the news that the accused had
left the country sooner than face the inquiry
; and further paragraphs said it would
be absurd to conceal the name of the delinquent,
and therefore published it boldly.
But Prance wanted to see this man in his
downfall, and exult over him in the hour of
his defeat.

A lucky Ascot had put Mr. Prance in
funds, and he determined to follow Purses
abroad, and look at him ; as he said to
Norman Slade at Doncaster money was to
him as nothing to the luxury of revenge,
and it was so ; it had become a mania with
him; he was quite prepared to exist on the
bare necessaries of life if he could only
feast his eyes on Purzedon thrust out of all
decent society, and driven to associate with a
class of Continental adventurers little superior
in position to him, Prance. Ha ! to see that;
to force his way into such a set, and to occasionally
indulge in a gibe at the man who
had struck him to the ground that night in

the Ha market; ha! ha! that would be
worth living for ; to keep perpetually wondering
how such a well-known trite as
Mr. Furzedon could he lingering abroad
while Doncaster and Newmarket were going
on. Ho ! ho ! what fun that would be.
The man was really half crazy on the point
of his inveterate animosity to Ralph Furze-don.


But to gratify these amiable instincts it
was of course necessary that Mr. Prance
should know whither Furzedon had betaken
himself, and this was by no means so easy.
Furzedon s dependants of all sorts were far
too well trained to babble ; and again, he
was a gentleman who made no more confidants
than were absolutely necessary. His
valet he had taken with him ; the old
woman in charge of his chambers doubtless
had no knowledge of his address; and,
though both at his office in Northumberland
Street and at the shop a few streets
higher up the Strand they w r ere sure to be

aware of it, yet Prance knew better than
to suppose that he should obtain the information
he wanted from them. How was
he to get at what he wanted ? and about this
Prance was fairly beat ; hut he was a man
accustomed to burrowing, to tracking and
tracing things through dirty by-paths, to
obtaining information, oft-times of very
dubious value, in manifold queer ways, and
though at fault for the present it was not
likely that he would remain so long. A
good hater, like a vengeful Indian, may be
baffled for the time, but it is difficult to
throw him altogether off the trail.

Mr. Prance cogitated over this for sometime,
and for the life of him could hit upon
no solution to the problem ; at last an idea
struck him. Purzedon's letters were probably
addressed in the first instance to the
office in Northumberland Street, and from
thence sent on to him by his confidential
clerk. No sooner had he settled this in his
own mind than Prance slipped down to

Northumberland Street about the time he
knew the office would be closing. He
loitered outside until he saw Mr. Sturgeon
the head-clerk, whom he knew perfectly
well by sight, come out and walk away.
Then he rang at the bell, and the door was
opened, as he expected, by the charwoman,
who was about to sweep out the office. His
covenant with her was short and simple.
For a trifling consideration the contents of
the waste-paper basket were to be carefully
preserved and delivered to him daily.

For some days, carefully though Prance
studied the torn papers that the charwoman
handed over to him, it was with no result,
but the clue was found at last. One morning
as he went carefully through them he
suddenly espied an envelope torn in two
addressed to Mr. Sturgeon in Furzedon's
well-known hand. The postmark on the
envelope told him partly what he wanted to
know. Furzedon, then, was at Brussels;
but it was, of course, possible that he might

not be staying there under his own name.
If the envelope was torn up it was likely
that the letter inside it had been torn up
too. He continued his search and soon
discovered that this was the case. What
the contents of the letter might be he cared
very little about ; but, for all that, he put
the pieces together, and, as he anticipated,
arrived at Eurzedon's address. That gentleman's
letters were to be forwarded to Henry
Jackson, Poste Restante, Brussels. This
was quite sufficient for Prance ; with that
clue to go upon he felt quite certain of
speedily tracing his man to his harbour of
refuge — and without delay the monomaniac
started for the Belgian capital.

CHAPTER XIV.

LET HIM BE GIVEN TO THE FLIES.

Charlie Devereux, meanwhile, who is
hurried along by his captors in a manner
that taxes his exhausted strength severely,
cannot as yet complain of anything worse
than being rather roughly treated. He
could hardly expect much courtesy from
men like his captors, more especially while
they were being much harassed in their
retreat by his comrades. It was quite clear
to him that his life hung upon a thread —
not on account of the Rohilla's sabre-stroke,
he felt pretty confident he should get over
that — but the scowling brows and menacing
gestures directed towards him by the da-vol.
III. Q

costs after each of these little skirmishes
between themselves and Hobson's troops
showed too plainly that his hour might
come any minute. In fact it was nothing
but the influence of Hassam that had saved
his life so far, and to what caprice he owed
his intervention Charlie could not possibly
conjecture. Jealously guarded, he could see
but little of what went on, but the firing
told him whenever Hobson and his men
came up with their fleet-footed foe.

At last came a hurried halt, and Charlie
made out that the robbers had broken up
into three parties, that the one with which
he remained was apparently under the command
of the Gorilla, and what had become
of Shere Ali Charlie was unable to ascertain.
Prom this out Devereux heard no more of
his own people. They might be still following
the robbers for all he knew ; but, at
all events, their rifles were silent. Their
road, as far as he could make out, seemed
to grow deeper and deeper into the jungle.

Another thing that struck him was, that
they were diminishing in numbers, and certainly
soon after they broke into three
parties they materially relaxed the speed at
which they travelled.

His captors showed no disposition to converse
with him, and indeed, as far as he
knew, were unable to do so. Charlie had
picked up but very little Hindostan, and
except from Hassam he had heard no word
of English escape their lips. As for the
Rohilla, Devereux suspected that he could
speak English fairly well if he chose : so far
he had confined himself to brief inquiries
as to whether he suffered much from his
wound, and to occasionally rendering some
rough assistance in readjusting the bandages.
At length they indulged in a halt of much
greater duration than ordinary, and from
various signs Charlie came to the conclusion
that the robbers had now no fear 01 pursuit,
and were besides nearing their destination.
Hassam's band had dwindled down now to
Q2

little over a score — how or when the others
had disappeared Devereux did not know,
but they had been melting like a snowball
ever since the dacoits had broken into three
bodies, the fact being that the marauders
were dispersing to their own homes, leaving
behind them only the faithful few privileged
to accompany Shere Ali to his stronghold.

Of all Shere Ali's subordinates there was
none he placed more dependence upon than
Hassam, and it is doubtful whether any
other could have stood between young
Devereux and his end but him. Even
Hassam knew that he had purchased but a
temporary respite for his prisoner, and it was
open to question whether that grisly old
marauder desired more ; though by no means
so cruel he was quite as ruthless as his chief,
and held strongly to the creed that the dead
tell no tales. He thought that a good deal
of the information they wanted ought to be
wrung from the young English officer, and
that once got, well, it was as easy to give

him his passport for another world as not.
The difference between the robber-chief and
his lieutenant was this, the Ptohilla would
not hesitate to torture a captive to gain his
object, but Shere Ali would torture his
victims from sheer cruelty.

Devereux had by this time abandoned his
palanquin, and been placed astride on a
rough country pony, one of those clever
wiry little " tats " who do a wondrous lot of
work upon a minimum ot corn. He noticed
that they seemed to have plunged deeper
into the jungle than ever, the very semblance
of a road seemed to have been lost,
and their path could only be described now
as a mere track. Suddenly they emerged
from the jungle upon a species of oasis
upon the far side of which was a singular
group of rocks, and around their base flowed
a small watercourse, tranquil enough just
now, but probably a torrent in the rainy
season; beyond the rocks was more jungle.
Before crossing this grassy oasis Devereux

had time to study this caprice of nature ; it
looked like a natural citadel, of which the
huge rock in the centre might be the key,
and its smaller surrounding brethren the
outworks. This was the stronghold of Shere
Ali. Halting his men for a few minutes
just within the verge of the jungle Hassan
rode forward and discharged two pistol-shots
into the air. Devereux looked on with
much curiosity to see the result of the
signal, for such it evidently was. Another
minute and a single shot was discharged
from the group of huge limestone boulders,
and then Hassam and his party rode gaily
forward.

The stream running in front of the rocks
was easily fordable, and, having crossed it,
they turned between two of the smaller
boulders and ascended the rocky path which
led up to the king-stone of this singular
group. Devereux noticed that the smaller
rocks were honeycombed with caves, partly
natural, but many of them had evidently

been enlarged by the hand of man. At last
they turned through a fissure in the side of
the chief rock, which, to Devereux's great
astonishment, instead of being solid, was in
the centre hollow, after the manner of a
tooth Around this curious platform in the
middle were the entrances to several caverns,
all of which, though natural to begin with,
had evidently been considerably enlarged
artificially ; in short the place had been in
years long gone by a species of Buddhist
monastery, now it was the home of the
tacit, and before then, perchance, of the
tiger; where his priest had formerly invoked
Buddha, now the victims of Shere Ali
shrieked their lives out under the tortures
this miscreant inflicted under pretext of
extorting confessions of hidden hoards which
they did not possess.

This natural fortress had evidently been
the retreat of the robbers for some time ;
many of the caves had been turned into
store-houses, and some of the larger ones

into stables, and it was quite evident to
Devereux that, if they had only command of
the water, a small body of men might hold
out for a considerable time against much
superior numbers. Still, that would avail
Shere Ali little, let his stronghold be only
once discovered ; and then Charlie reflected
sadly how well its secret had been kept, and
how long the tacit chief had baffled his
pursuers. He was thrust into a small cell
with a stern intimation from Hassam that if
he crossed its threshold without permission
he did so at his peril. As far as he could
make out, the place at present was occupied
only by Hassam's party, and what had become
of Shere Ali he was unable to conjecture:
but he felt pretty certain that he
was not within the citadel. He could see
that the robbers maintained in their way a
severe discipline, the Rohilla's word was
obeyed without question by his strange
medley of followers. The ruffianly crew
seemed to have been gathered from men of

all races common to the Peninsula. There
were some whose soldierly bearing gave good
grounds for supposing they were among
those who, like their leader, had been false
to their salt during the past Mutiny, but
many of them had probably taken to the
road from their youth upwards. Food and
water were furnished him with a liberal
hand, and, though he was apparently but
slightly guarded, Devereux knew that he
was jealously watched ; moreover, so far ashe
knew, the only way out of this singular
amphitheatre was the narrow path by which
they had entered, and two or three of the
dacoits armed to the teeth lingered night
and day about that. Still Charlie thought
that if any feasible chance of escape presented
itself he was bound to attempt it.
He could but be killed, and that that would
be his fate a little later he had no reason to
doubt ; in fact it puzzled Charlie why it was
that his life was spared so long.

Their first day in the rocks the dacoits

seemed determined to compensate themselves
for the fatigues of their late rapid
march. They gave themselves up, after the
manner of their kind, to eating and drinking,
sleep and tobacco — usually the sole
pleasures left to those who elect to live by
preying on their fellows : the second day
they were more on the alert, and Hassam
more than once ascended a rough staircase
which led to the top of the great honeycombed
rock which formed their shelter.
Devereux had gathered, partly from the few
words he caught and partly from their gestures,
that they were expecting the arrival
of their leader ; and when the afternoon sun
sank low in the heavens the tramp of horses
on the narrow path became plainly audible :
a few minutes more and Shere Ali, with
about a dozen followers, made their appearance
on the rocky platform. Devereux was
struck with what a very small number of
the dacoits had gained their stronghold ; he
felt sure that they were in much greater

force when he and his comrades first came
up with them. It was, of course, difficult
to estimate their numbers in the jungle,
but Charlie had believed that there were
quite three hundred of them when the
first attack was made, which had terminated
so disastrously for himself. He did not
believe that Hobson's incessant attacks had
occasioned such loss as the disproportion
between their present and then numbers
might have been supposed to indicate. Then
he began to speculate upon how Shere Ali's
return would affect himself — little doubt, he
thought, but what his fate would be speedily
determined now ; then he wondered whether
his comrades were still upon the track of
the marauders. He reckoned that Hobson
could only have about fifty men with him
now, for several he knew fell in that first
skirmish ; and it was not likely that others
had not shared the same fate in the succeeding
ones. Shere Ali had between thirty and
forty with him, and the natural defences of

the place were such, that, even if tracked to
his lair, the struggle between him and his
assailants would probably be both bloody
and protracted.

Devereux was kept but little time in suspense
; half an hour after the tacit chief's
arrival in his citadel his cave was entered
by some half dozen of the robbers, and he
was roughly escorted into the presence of
Shere Ali. The bandit's face wore its most
savage expression. Hobson's stubborn pursuit
had irritated him not a little, and his
fury had been thoroughly roused by finding
it hopeless to induce his followers to fairly
face the hated Feringhees. He had led
them on, himself, twice in the most resolute
fashion ; for, merciless though he was, he
possessed the attribute of animal courage.
But, as it had been in the Mutiny, so it was
now ; and, in spite of preponderance of numbers,
the Asiatic could rarely be induced to
face the Englishman hand to hand.

He was sitting at the door of the cave

which he retained as his own private residence,
surrounded by Hassam and four or
five more of his principal lieutenants. A
gleam of ferocious exultation flashed across
his face, and the savage dark eyes lit up
with devilish cruelty as he fixed his gaze
upon Devereux.

Ha ! ha ! " he laughed at last ; " so this
is the dog of a Peringhee you persuaded me
to spare, Hassam. Your arm grows feeble,
old friend; your sword was wont to do its
work cleaner. Answer me this, Englishman
: not as you hope to live, but as you
hope to escape agonies that will make you
welcome death as a boon and a blessing.
How many parties of your hated race are
there out in pursuit of me ? "

Devereux made no reply.

Dog, do you hear what I say ?"

A soldier answers no questions put to
him by the enemy ; and an Englishman
knows how to die'

"And an Asiatic knows how to kill.

Fool ! before the morrow's sun has set you
shall pray to your gods for death. Away
with him, and let him be given to the flies."

Charlie Devereux was in merciful ignorance
of the horrible death to which Shere
Ali's ruthless words consigned him ; in a
trice he was seized, conducted down the
narrow pathway, carried some two hundred
yards out into the little oasis, on the edge of
which the rocky citadel stood. There he
was stripped ; and then, his captors having
driven some short stakes into the ground,
they proceeded to bind him hand and foot to
the said stakes, the result of their labours
being that Devereux was left stretched flat
on his back on the ground, with his arms
extended after the manner of a man crucified,
unable to move hand or foot, and with
only the power of slightly turning his head.
That done, with a brutal laugh the robbers
retreated into their own stronghold.

Devereux speedily began to realise the
horrible death to which the dacoits had

consigned him ; the sun was almost down,
so for the present he was spared the tortures
of the fierce glare that must tomorrow
shine down upon his upturned face ; but
Charlie quickly became aware that the
jungle was alive with creeping things, for
which his defenceless form had become a
playground. The stings, the bites, and the
irritation caused by this army of flics, mosquitoes,
centipedes, &c, gradually became
maddening, and as the night wore on the
fever occasioned by it naturally excited a
terrible thirst, a frightful craving for water,
than which there is no infliction more hard
to bear. With the hours of darkness came
the bark of the jackal ; and soon Devcivux
became conscious that several of these
creatures were not only at hand, but were
stealing cautiously up to him as a subject
well worthy of investigation. He could have
cried aloud almost in his a^onv, but he
grimly swore the dacoits should not. have
that satisfaction ; and then he realised Shere

Ali's threat. He felt that he was strong
yet, and that he could look forward to hours
of thirst and this frightful irritation before
death released him. Every bone in his
body seemed to be one prolonged ache, from
the enforced inability to shift his position.
He felt that the jackals were coming nearer
and nearer ; they were smelling at his feet ;
every moment he expected their sharp teeth
would meet in his flesh. Suddenly came a
sharp yap from one of their number, who
was still some little way off. Another
second, and they were scuttling away in all
directions. What had alarmed them he
could not guess, but at all events he was
relieved for the present from one of the
horrors of his position.

CHAPTER XV.

THE ROCKS OF RUGGERBUND.

At the expiration of the hour bugle and
trumpet rang out "boot and saddle"; the
mounted infantry and dragoons at once,
under Hobson's orders, turning upon the
former's previous tracks, once more plunged
into the jungle, carrying with them the unhappy
Bunnear as a captive.

I am going back," said Hobson, " to
the spot where I was beat and lost all trace
of Shere Ali. The road there splits into
three paths, the one of those three paths
that we followed brought us on to the
main road ; I am convinced that Shere Ali
was not with that party. That band, I
should imagine, dispersed as soon as it

VOL. III. R

touched the highway. It is little likely
that they would have dared travel in the
force they were along the main road to
Nagpore. Had they turned the Secunderabad
way you must have met them."

Quite true' said Slade, " and I am
perfectly sure no such body as half a score
has passed us on the road."

Hobson smiled ; he had not passed years
in hunting Pandies, Rohillas, Dacoits, and
all such riff-raff for nothing. He had not
much faith in these newly-arrived English
dragoons when their wits came to be pitted
against the subtlety of the Asiatic.

This leaves us," he continues, " a choice
of two roads ; which of those two I am to
follow depends upon that Bunnear's decision.
Charlie Devereux's life hangs upon a thread,
and by the living God if I arrive too late
I'll keep my word with that miserable
huckster."

"You surely don't mean that you'll put inforce
what you threatened ? " said Gilbert.

You are new to these people, Slade.
You can't quite understand what we went
through during the Mutiny times. And
your eyes are hardly open yet to what maybe
poor Devereux's fate unless our help
comes speedily. You don't know, perhaps,
so much of this Shere Ali and his doings as
we who have been hunting him for months.
If I was sure that wretched huckster was
withholding from me the information I
require, I would flay him alive. As it is, if
he tampers with me in any way he shall
never leave that jungle alive, for I'll shoot
him with my own hand."

Gilbert said nothing, but he was tortured
with the idea of what poor Charlie's fate
might be, and recognised at once that his
leader was one of those stern determined
natures that thoroughly understood his
savage foe, and was perfectly competent to
cope with him.

The Bunnear in the meantime, arrant
r2

knave and coward as he was at bottom, was
not quite plunged in that abyss of despair
and terror that he pretended. Frightened
lie was, no doubt. He was of a timid and
a cautious nature. Nothing but the greed
of gold had led him to open his lips to the
extent that he did before Sergeant Rivers.
He could not resist asking what was the
reward of treachery. He could not help,
with all his trading instincts upon him,
seeking to know whether what he had got
to sell would not fetch a still higher price.
He had got his answer; he had found it
would fetch double. It may be still questioned
whether he would have had the
courage to be tempted even by so high a
bait, but the white sahib had peremptorily
taken the whole thing out of his hands;
he was a prisoner, and threatened, with all
sorts of pains and penalties if he did not
divulge what he knew. On the one hand
was the terrible vengeance of Shere Ali, on
the other immediate punishment by the

white Sahib should he refuse to do his bidding.
Cunning, though cowardly, the more
the Bunnear turned the thing over in his own
mind, the more convinced he was that the
betrayal of Shere Ali tended most to his safety
and profit. If he guided the Feringhees to
the stronghold of the robbers, the result
would probably be the capture of the great
tacit chief, and then he thought the band
might be so effectually broken up that he
would have little to fear from their vengeance.
Then again, was he not offered
two thousand rupees to point out the way ?
His mouth watered at the bare idea; yes,
decidedly he would speak.

When, upon arrival at the place where
the three roads met, Hobson ordered his
prisoner to be once more brought before him,
and sternly demanded which of those roads
led to Shere Ali's place of refuge.

Prostrating himself at Hobson's feet, the
Bunnear exclaimed, " If my lord will hold
to his promise, give me the two thousand

rupees lie has promised me, and then let me
go free, I will tell him all I know."

You shall have the reward and £?o free
the minute you have led me to Shere Ali's
fortress, and I have convinced myself that
he is still there ; where is he ? "

My lord, the dacoits are concealed in
the rocks of Huggerbund, and the path to
the right will lead you to them."

The rocks of ltuggerbund," exclaimed
Hobson ; " it is odd I never heard of them,
and yet I thought I knew all this country
well, too."

"They were famous many hundreds of
years ago, and it was said many holy men
lived in them, but they are little known
now."

Do you think that fellow is speaking
the truth ? " said Slade.

Yes. At all events it will be the worst
day's work he ever did if he is not; take
him to the front, Rivers, and now let us
push forward as quick as we can."

After some hours' riding the party arrived
at the open plain on the further side of
which rose the curious rocks of Rugged
Hohson instantly ordered a halt
under cover of the trees, and then, after
surveying the brigand's stronghold through
his field-glasses for some minutes, gave
orders that men and horses should keep
themselves carefully concealed, and above
all that there must be no noise.

u That's a very tough nut to crack, Slade,"
he said, pointing to the rocks, "and Heaven
knows how many of his rapscallions that
scoundrel Shere Ali has got with him, but
we must have it at any cost."

My fellows are downright wolfish to get
a chance," replied Gilbert ; " they know that
their old officer is in the dacoits' hands,
and your men have been enlightening them
a little upon the way Shere Ali treats his
prisoners."

Yes," rejoined Hobson, " there's no fear
but what they'll come on fast enough when

they're wanted; the first question is, what
is the best chance of saving Devereux's life,
the second, how to carry that place with as
little loss of life as possible."

To save Charlie's life is the main thing.
I suppose your fear is that they'll murder
him the minute they catch sight of as."

Just so ; the sun is all but down, and I
think our best chance will be to steal across
the open in the dark, and then to rush the
rocks at the first glimmer of daybreak."

Anxiously did Slade and Hobson sweep
the half-mile of open that separated them
from the rocks. They could see the robber
sentinel on the summit of the king rock as
clearly as possible. Their men were silent,
watchful, and observant as themselves. They
knew that Mr. Devereux's life depended on
the rapidity and dexterity of their attack.
He had been popular with both corps, and
the mounted rifles had in addition a Ions:
score of weary marching and counter-marching
to reckon up with the human tigers

whom they had at last tracked to their lair.
The sun dipped "below the horizon with that
plunge that characterizes his setting in the
East, and it was night ; lit up as yet only
by the fireflies, and sung only by the trumpeting
of the mosquito and the chirruping
of the innumerable insect tribe. The stars
twinkled slowly forth, but there was no
moon ; moreover, a declivity of the ground
sheltered the doings of the robbers as they
emerged from the base of their citadel ; the
consequence was that, keenly as the eyes of
his friends had scanned the intervening space
between them and the ftuggerbund rocks,
they could see nothing of Devereux's so-speak
crucifixion. There he lay staked to
the ground literally within their sight, had
it not been for the darkness. Then came
the rising of the moon, the bark of the
jackal, and the melancholy wail of more
than one of the denizens of the jungle, to
break the silence of an eastern night.

We must wait till that confounded

moon is down," said Hobson ; "and as soon
as it is I shall creep across with my men, in
skirmishing order, and be as much round
the far side of those rocks as I can before
daybreak. We must both leave a few men
behind to take care of the horses; you'll
then bring the main body of your fellows,
massed just in rear of my centre. At daybreak
you and your men must carry the
entrance to the main rock. I shall immediately
collect my men together, and follow
on to the fort."

"All right !" said Gilbert, quietly. "We
shall get in, never fear; at all events, if
my fellows are beaten back, you may look
upon it I'm past praying for."

A single hand-grip was exchanged between
the two men, and then came that
tedious business of watching for the disappearance
of the moon, as they had watched
for the setting of the sun.

All orders were given, and every man
amongst the little command knew exactly

what was expected of him. At last the moon
waned, and gradually died out. The thick
darkness which precedes daybreak covered
the plain as Hobson and his men, emerging
from the jungle in skirmishing order, crept
stealthily across it. Some fifty yards behind
their centre came Slade at the head of his
dismounted troopers. Slowly they stole forward,
and there was no sign that the robbers
had any conception of their presence. Suddenly
the word was passed in muffled tones
up the line that the Captain was wanted.

What is it, Rivers," inquired Hobson,
in a low tone, as that active non-commissioned
officer, who had been leading the
skirmishers on the extreme right, at last
gained the centre.

"We've found Mr. Devereux, sir," exclaimed
Rivers, in an awe-struck whisper.

Alive ?" asked Hobson, anxiously.

Yes, sir ; the devils seem to have
treated him shamefully. He's a bit off his
head, and a case for the doctors ; but "

That'll do' interposed Hobson, sharply;
pass the word to halt along the line ; now
take me to him."

When Hobson came to where his men
had discovered Charlie he found his luckless
subaltern in a high fever, and wandering
in his talk. The soldiers had, of course,
at once severed his shameful bonds; but,
weak from his previous wound, the misery
and tortures of his horrible position had
proved too much for him. Fever had come
on, and he was now talking wildly and at
random. A fierce malediction broke from
under Hobson's moustache as he learned
in what state Charlie Devereux had been
found. " Carry him back at once," he said,
to the shelter of the jungle; and— ha!
surely that is the first streak of light : before
the sun is well up we will settle with those
hell-hounds inside."

Once more the word was given to advance,
when suddenly a shot from the rocks
told that they were discovered. " Forward

the stories ! " rang out Hobson's voice, in
rej^ly. " Keep your men well in hand,
Captain Slade, till you are close up to the
rock ; and then, good luck to you ! Sound
the fire bugle;" and in another instant a
score of rifles rang out at the half-dozen
dacoits visible against the sky-line in the
dim grey of the morning.

Slade and his men in the meantime
marched rapidly across the short space that
intervened between themselves and the fissure
in the rock, now plainly visible. They
suffered but slightly, for the hot fire kept
up by Hobson's sharpshooters prevented the
dacoits from effectively using their muskets
on the advancing foe.

Now, lads, follow me!" exclaimed Slade,
as, waving his sabre, he dashed up the pathway
followed by his troopers, but the wasps'
nest was by this time thoroughly aroused,
and at the first bend of the road where the
path enlarged a little they were confronted
by Hassam. Quick as thought Gilbert

rushed at the Rohilla, and a fierce and
furious mel^e at once occurred between the
dacoits and the troopers, sabres flashed and
revolvers cracked for a few minutes. At
the end of that time Hassam found that he
had encountered a more formidable foeman
than Charlie Devereux. Young, powerful,
and a good swordsman, with the advantages
of height and reach, the contest between
Slade and the Rohilla was short, and Gilbert
passed his sword through the latter' s body,
just as he felt something like the sear of a
hot iron about his own ribs.

At the fall of Hassam the robbers gave
way, and Gilbert and his troopers followed
close upon them, so as to give them no
chance of reforming, but they soon rallied
under the command of another chief, who
now suddenly appeared upon the scene.
Gilbert, who was under the impression that
he had slain Shere Ali when he ran Hassam
through the body, was somewhat puzzled at
this new apparition, but the English slowly

won their way upwards despite the desperate
resistance of the dacoits, now led by Shere
Ali in person. By this time Slade and his
men had fought their way into the little
amphitheatre which formed the interior of
the king rock, and there a terrible struggle
took place between the soldiers and the
bandits ; looking upon it as hopeless to ask
for quarter, they died like rats in a trap,
showing their teeth to the last. Shere Ali
and some six or eight of his men were all
that were left. Once more Gilbert, his
sabre red with carnage, rallies his men fora
last charge. As he dashes in at their
head a bullet from the robber chief's pistol
smashes his sword-arm, which drops useless
by his side. Shifting his sabre to his left
hand, Gilbert still cheers his men on — suddenly
Shere Ali springs back into the
mouth of a cave to which he has been
driven and disappears ; another minute or
two and Slade and his troopers pour into
the cave in pursuit of the daring chief

whom they now have no doubt is Shere Ali
himself. It is difficult at first to penetrate
the obscurity of the cave, but when they doit
is empty. In vain do they peer and
poke their way into the darkest recesses of
the cabin, their prey has escaped them, it
seems as if the earth has swallowed Shere
Ali.

Suddenly a wild English hurrah, followed
by a shot or two, breaks upon the morning
air. The sounds come from the outside of
the rock, and, though not exactly knowing
what they mean, Slade trusts that it heralds
the capture of the tacit chief. He had
seen nothing of Hobson since he gave him
orders to storm the rocks. That sagacious
veteran, having much experience of the wiliness
of dacoits, had suspected that they had
probably an exit from their citadel on the
far side. Detaching half his men to Gilbert's
support he had at once crept round
with the other half to watch the narrow
strip of open that lay between the rocks and

the jungle on that side ; his craftiness was
rewarded, for some few minutes after the
firing had ceased inside the rock which
proclaimed that Slade had overcome the
garrison, some hushes parted, and from a
fissure which they concealed appeared the
robber chief. Discharging his pistols in the
face of his foes, the robber made a determined
dash for the jungle, but a rifle bulletin
the leg stretched him on the ground, and
the notorious Shere Ali was at last in the
hands of his pursuers.

vol. in.

CHAPTER XVI.

prance's vengeance.

Sam Prance, on his arrival in Brussels, had
but a vague idea of what form his vengeance
was to take. He wanted to find Purzedon ;
he wanted to taunt him over his social discomfiture;
to jeer at him, and to gloat over
his humiliation ; to proclaim it as far as possible
before those who for the present might be
Purzedon's associates : but further than that
he had as yet conceived no plan. Brooding
over his wrongs had, no doubt, warped the
man's mind; he had set his heart upon
seeing his enemy thrust off the Turf. His
failing to accomplish that end, to which he
had striven so hard, had turned his very

soul to verjuice. There remained for him
now but one thing to do, to avenge himself
on the man who had ruined his life, and to
taunt him ere consummating that vengeance,
as the Indian squaws do the brave that is
tied to the stake. The first thing to do was
to discover where Eurzedon had taken up his
abode; and that to a man of Prance's researches
was not difficult. It was but to
watch the poste restante daily. He had a
very fair knowledge of Eurzedon's habits, and
could make a rough guess as to within what
hour he would be likely to call for his letters.
Two — three days elapsed ; but on the third
the patient watcher was rewarded ; Ralph
Eurzedon entered the post-office, and after a
few minutes emerged again, thrusting his
letters into his coat-pocket as he did so. It
was easy from thence to follow Eurzedon to
his own lodgings over a shop in the Montague
de Cour; and that point once ascertained
Prance felt that he was master of the
situation. It was easy for him now to keeps
2

watch and ward over Purzedon's outgoings
and incoming : to follow him to his favourite
restaurant, to trace him to his accustomed
haunts, and to choose his own time
for publicly denouncing him as a Turf-outlaw,
who dare not show his face in England ; and
from that out — utterly unknown to himself
Purzedon's steps were perpetually dogged
by this pale-faced monomaniac. Prance, as
such men do, was simply nursing his opportunity
; he chuckled to himself at the power
he possessed, at the knowledge that he
could bring the object of his hatred to
shame at any moment ; as an epicure dallies
with a dainty dish, so did Prance linger over
his revenge. The great expose could come
but once ; he so gloated over the idea that
he could not make up his mind to precipitate
it. Habited in decent garments, and
knowing so well that the truth of what he
had to allege was a thoroughly-recognised
fact by the majority of the racing world,
even if not proven, it never occurred to

Prance that it was possible that the word
of a nobody like himself might be pooh-poohed
when put against that of a wealthy
man like Purzedon. Nursing his revenge,
still chuckling in his heart at the moment
when he was to expose the plausible author
of his ruin, day by day Prance dogged the
heels of his quarry. He had found out the
restaurant that Purzedon chiefly affected,
and in which lie seemed to have established
himself as the head of a little clique, and a
great authority on all matters connected
with " le Sport" ; and there he decided that
he would snatch the mask off the impostor,
and let these gentlemen know that the man
they bowed down to dared not show his face
on Newmarket Heath. Mr. Prance had
money in his pocket, and the Restaurant
des Trois Angles knew no distinction of persons.
As long as you were decently dressed
and had napoleons in your pocket, any
vacant table was at your disposal. The
evening: came at last which Mr. Prance had

marked out for the discomfiture of his
enemy. Strolling in a little before the time
at which Eurzedon usually dined, he took a
table in his immediate vicinity; and then,
taking a chair in the restaurant, awaited
the course of events. He had not to wait
long. As he expected, Ralph Eurzedon
and three or four of his intimates shortly
made their appearance ; and, entering
the restaurant, took their places at the
somewhat elaborate table prepared for them.
The party were apparently English. At all
events their conversation was conducted in
that language; and it was quire evident
that Eurzedon was one in authority amongst
them. Prance averted his face as they
moved up the room, and, sitting with
his back to them, escaped Eurzedon's
notice.

It was curious how his intense longing to
avenge himself on his enemy had mastered
his better judgment. He had always felt
that for him to denounce Eurzedon would

be useless ; that gentleman would simply
laugh at him as the pariah of the betting-ring
he was ; but the disappointment he
had experienced when Eurzedon left the
country had churned his hatred up to very
madness. He with difficulty contained himself
until the convives were in the midst of
their dinner : he sat trembling with passion,
and nervously emptying glass after glass of
wine in his excitement. At last he could
bear it no longer, and, springing to his feet,
exclaimed, " Gentlemen, you don't know
the sort of blackguard you've allowed to sit
at table with you. That scoundrel," he
cried, pointing to Eurzedon, " is a horse-prisoner,
a man-poisoner, a fellow that, if he
had not fled from England, would have been
kicked off the Turf. Gentlemen in England

don't speak " but here the flood of Mr.

Prance's eloquence was interrupted by a
wine-glass, which was shivered on his forehead
; and in another second Eurzedon,
springing to his feet, peremptorily called

upon the waiters to " put that drunken thief
out of the place."

By this time the commotion had attracted
the attention of the whole room. That the
landlord and his servitors should at once
take part against the stranger was only
natural. Furzedon and his friends were
well-known customers, who spent their
money lavishly. Bleeding, struggling, asseverating,
Mr. Prance speedily found himself
thrust into the street, with a strong
intimation that any further disturbance on
his part would result in his being handed
over to the police. Furzedon turned round
with an easy smile to his companions, who
were all more or less of racing tendencies,
and said, "A broken-down welsher, with
whom I have a long-standing quarrel. I've
had him put out of the Ring on two or
three occasions. I don't know what he is
doing here ; but if he has come over for the
races, I can only advise you," he concluded,
laughing, " not to bet with him." It need

scarcely be said that this incident, if it were
possible, still further intensified Prance's
animosity : he brooded day and night over
his imaginary wrongs, and speedily arrived
at the conclusion that his injuries must be
avenged by his own right hand. Prom that
out he dogged Purzedon like a shadow ;
wherever he went Prance, shrinking discreetly
from notice, was watching him;
he dogged him his lodgings at night;
prowled on his footsteps, whether at the
opera or the dinner-table, ever watching
his foe with fierce, malignant eyes, waiting
patiently within convenient view of the
door, when Purzedon disappeared into buildings
into which he deemed it inexpedient for
him to follow. Norman Slade might well
say he shouldn't care to have so vindictive
a foe at large were he in Purzedon's place.
He was right, for since he had been flung
out of the restaurant France toes always
armed.

He had quite made up his mind, he was

determined to kill Furzedon as soon as a
favourable opportunity was vouchsafed him.
When a man resolves to slay his fellow, and
is utterly reckless of his own life, nothing
short of marvellous good fortune can save
the doomed victim. He is, perhaps, more
at the murderer's mercy in the very centres
of civilization than in the wild plains of
"Western America, in the desert, or in South
Africa. In these latter cases he is ever on
his guard against enemies ; but in the capitals
of Europe one hardly expects to carry
one's life in one's hand. But Purzedon was
a man of gregarious habits ; he was seldom
alone, and for some days he unwittingly
avoided attack from this circumstance. At
length he received a letter from Mr. Sturgeon,
desiring instructions about some rather
intricate business matters that had just
cropped up; and, with a view to thinking
them well over, Purzedon lit his cigar, and
started for a walk on the outer boulevards.
The pale grey shadow of Thanatos stalks

behind us from our cradle, but at what
distance it is mercifully not given us to know.
Sometimes, when deemed near at hand,
years may elapse before he claims his own.
At others when exulting in the full pride
of our strength he is at our very heels with
upraised hands. Little dreamt Furzedon
as he crossed the threshold of his lodgings
that bright summer morning that the Destroyer
had marked him for his prey, and
was rapidly closing in upon him. Prance
was as usual on his ceaseless watch, and
had followed after his wont on the steps
of his foe, more doggedly resolved than
ever to make an end of this man at the
earliest opportunity, and utterly careless of
what the consequences might be to himself.
One thing only he hesitated about, he knew
that physically Purzedon was the more
powerful of the two, and whether really
courageous or no he further knew that at
all events Purzedon was not afraid of him.
Prance's sole fear was a fiasco. The bare

idea that an attempt to kill his enemy
might result in such discomfiture as we
have seen twice befell him at Purzedon's
hands made him wince again. No ; there
must be no mistake about it this time — a
life for a life he was willing to give, but
Purzedon must die. Stealthily he kept his
victim in view, as he had done scores of
times in the last two or three weeks, and for
the first time saw him with savage exultation
betake his way to the comparative solitude
of the boulevards. Purzedon walked
moodily along, puffing at his cigar, with his
hands behind him, absorbed in thought. He
had come out to think, and he was busy
at it — no thought of Prance had crossed
his mind since the scene at the restaurant;
he had never caught sight of him since,
and would have scoffed at the idea of such
an outcast being able to work him harm.

This opportunity had come at last, and,
though not flinching for one moment from
his purpose, it seemed to Prance not quite

so easy of accomplishment after all. The
boulevards, although thinly peopled, were
of course not deserted ; it was easy to keep
Purzedon in view, but at the same time to
approach him closely was to run the chance
of immediate recognition. He slunk along
about fifty paces in the rear, but, tightly ashe
clutched the pistol within his breast, he
never dreamt of risking a shot at that distance.


Pshaw !" he muttered to himself, "have
I not waited days for this chance? have I
turned coward ? is my nerve failing me ?
It is time to make an end of this," and,
quickening his pace, Prance rapidly though
stealthily drew near his unconscious victim.

Not above a dozen steps behind him now,
he drew the pistol from his breast, stopped,
and was about to shoot his enemy down
from behind, when from sheer accident
Purzedon turned suddenly in his walk, and
confronted him face to face. Por a second
Prance hesitated, but Ralph Purzedon, whatever

else he might be, was a man of courage
and decision. He recognised Prance ; he
saw the pistol, and took in the situation at
a glance. This man meant to kill him.
Quick as lightning he dashed in at his foe,
determined to close with him, and neutralise
if possible the power of that pistol. Prance
hurriedly fired at him, and Purzedon felt
that he was hit ; the second bullet whistled
past him at such close quarters that it was a
miracle it only went through his hat instead
of his head ; and then Purzedon closed with
his assailant. He was but slightly wounded,
and was far the more powerful man of the
two. The struggle between them, if brief,
was desperate. The one was battling for his
life, the other mad with the lust of revenge ;
but Prance's pistol-hand was powerless now.
Once more, indeed, the revolver cracked
harmlessly in the air; and then Purzedon
succeeded in wrenching it from his antagonist's
hand and throwing it away ; but he
stuck to his man with the pertinacity of

a bull-dog, and in another two or three
minutes had borne him backwards, and the
pair fell to the ground together — Prance
undermost. All the brutal passions of Furze-don's
instincts were aroused, and with his
clenched fists he rained a shower of blows
on the unhappy wretch's countenance, and
speedily made it hardly recognisable.

"I've a great mind to kill you, you
cowardly hound," he growled, between his
set teeth. "I've a right to do it; you did
your best to murder me. Don't dare to getup
till I tell you." And as he spoke Eurze-
don rose from the body of his prostrate foe,
and, stepping two or three paces back, began
to take stock of what damages he had
received in the encounter.

Already a small crowd, attracted by the
shots, were hurrying to the scene of the
conflict. Deeming his foe disarmed, and
a little distracted by the ejaculations and
questions rapidly addressed to him by the
new-comers, Furzedon took his eyes off his

assailant, who had by this raised himself to
a sitting posture. Suddenly Prance sprang
to his feet, and drawing a knife from his
breast threw himself upon Purzedon, exclaiming
with almost a shriek, as he buried
his knife twice in Purzedon' s chest, " Done
my best to kill you; not yet, but I will now."
And as Purzedon fell lifeless to the ground
he flourished his blood-stained weapon in
the face of the horrified spectators, and
then with a burst of maniacal laughter buried
it in his own throat.

CONCLUSION.

The fray was over, there was nothing now
but to reckon up the cost and fruits of
victory. The dacoits had died hard, and
fought like wild cats in their rocky den, and
the state in which Charlie Devereux had
been found had not inclined the hearts of
the soldiers to mercy. There were marvellously
few prisoners, and amongst Slade's
troopers the casualties also had been heavy.
It had required all Hobson's authority to
save Shere Ali's life, and the robber chieftain
had good reason to feel little grateful
for his preservation ; he knew it was forfeited,
and thought rightly it would have
been as well to make an end of it amidst the
rocks of E/Uggerbund, sword in hand, as to

VOL. III. T

be banged in the face of the multitude,
wbicb fate be was well aware was in store
for bim. Tbe doctor's report too was somewhat
serious ; be told Hobson that many of
the wounded were bad cases, and it was
desirable to get them within the shelter of
a regular hospital as soon as might be.
Captain Slade," he continued, " will soon
be all right, his arm is broken by a pistol-shot,
and he has one or two slight flesh
wounds. It will be some time before he
recovers the use of his sword-arm, but one
can feel easy about him. I only wish I
could say as much for some of the others."

What about young Devereux?" asked
Hobson anxiously.

'• Ah ! that's serious," replied the doctor,
it must be a touch and go thing with him;
he seems weak as a rat from his wound,
which has never been properly attended to,
and these wretches have driven him into a
raging fever to wind up with. It is a question
whether he will have strength to pull

through that ; anyway, the sooner I can get
my sick back to the cantonments the
better."

Hobson had accomplished his mission,
and after giving his men a few hours' rest,
and thoroughly ransacking the robbers'
stronghold, he started with his prisoners
and wounded for the nearest cantonment,
where he received much congratulation on
his capture of the ferocious bandit, whom a
military tribunal shortly relegated to the
death he had so well deserved.

Charlie Devereux's battle for life was
long and painful. More than once the
doctors thought he was gone, and nothing
but the most unwearied care and attention
snatched him from the very jaws of death.
When at last the delirium left him he was
so weak, so utterly prostrated in mind and
body, that the doctors unhesitatingly agreed
that there was nothing for it but to send
him home.

"Let him go round the Cape' said the

medical officer who had principal charge of
him. " A long sea voyage will do more to
set him on his legs than anything else," and
as Gilbert Slade, though doing well, was
still unfit for duty, it was arranged that the
two friends should proceed to England
together.

Good-bye, Devereux," said Hobson, ashe
shook hands with his subaltern. " English
air, and especially English beef, will soon put
you all to rights. My dream wasn't quite
accurate, which I attribute to the fact of my
never having seen Shere Ali. It was however
most unpleasantly near the truth."

"Yes," said Charlie, with a faint smile,
"I was destined to be cut down by a tacit,
and whether it was Shere Ali or one of his
lieutenants made little difference."

The news of Eurzedon's death offered a
facility for the arrangement of Charlie
Devereux's affairs, which Major Braddock
at once took advantage of. Eurzedon's
heirs had no desire to continue the bill-discounting

business, and were only too
glad to accept the money due to them,
with, a reasonable rate of interest. That
Mrs. Kynaston gave free vent to her malicious
tongue, and would have prevented the
marriage of Gilbert Slade and Lettie had
she been able, it is needless to say ; but, for
all that, the two were made man and wife
a few months after the former landed in
England ; Charlie Devereux being sufficiently
recovered to enact best man on the
occasion. The breakfast took place at Mrs.
Connop's house ; and, as that lady had consulted
Major Braddock on the occasion, it
was pronounced a great success ; that distinguished
officer having thrown himself
into the affair with great energy, and been
at immense pains to see that the champagne
was of an unexceptionable brand, and
u not that usually kept for wedding breakfasts,
my boy."

VOL. III. u

WESTMINSTER:

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.
