MAWLErSMART

OF THE

U N IVLR.SITY

Of ILLINOIS

A

J^.^^.^^'W-^M^' ;^:^^'?r'

*sr"'

T. r,„e„ „„ Telephone. Center, 333-8400

Ji*

«;<; ijjif

MAR 5 2Cfl?

L161— O-1096

VOL. I.

a

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS.

A NO VE L.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF
I5REEZIE LANGTON,' ' A FALSE START,' 'CLEVERLY WON,
'THE OUTSIDER,' 'THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY,'
ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES,
VOL. I.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1889.

V, 2.

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

EEEATA.

VOL. I.

Page 2, line 4, for ' have to save read ' cam to save

■ „ 10, „ 13, for ' luck's view,' read 'luck's vein''

„ 12, „ 9, for ' salon de sue,' read 'salon dejeu.'

„ 16, ,, 16, for ' couldn't say,' read * could not say.'

„ 21, „ 9, for * to Cuxwolds,' read ' in Cuxwolds.' '^%

„ 76, „ 7, for • Staples,' read ' Slumber.'

„ 121, ,, 3, for ' Xaxartes,' read ' the Jaxartes.'

„ 124, „ 20, for 'of the tribes,' read 'with the tribes.'

„ 212, „ 8, for * a good year,' read ' near a year.'

„ 215, „ 4, for 'knew you had,' read * know you have.'

„ 243, „ 14, for ' they,' read ' our people.'

Xii— Lucy's Inoculation, . . • i97

XIV. — Mr Skinner IS PUZZLED, . . . 213

XV.— The July Stakes, 228

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/longoddsnovel01smar

Nozu ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2s.

A ho now ready, ifi cloth gilt, 35. 6d. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
A SIEGE BABY. By the same Author.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs Edward

Kennard. Also picture boards, 2s.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.' Also,

picture boards, 2s.
MONA'S CHOICE. By the same Author.

KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Also, picture boards, 2s.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
TWILIGHT TALES. By the same Author. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF 'THE EXCELSIOR." By Bret Harte.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, Wag.

LONG ODDS.

CHAPTER I.

TAKE CARE OF DAMOCLES.

A GLORIOUS night. The moon, pale regent
of the sky, with all her glittering court,
is marching like an army through the
heavens. The numberless lights of Cairo
twinkle brightly, and the cigars glow like
fire-flies under the verandah of Shepherd's
Hotel. Just visible from the lounging-chairs
there, an unusually brilliant gleam
of light catches the eye, evidently proceeding
from some large building which is
garishly illuminated. From that spot, at

VOL. I. A

that time of night, the most striking object
perhaps in the city of the Khedive.

So you're getting pretty tired of the
place you have to save, Jack, eh ? '

Yes,' replied the Honourable Jack
Cuxwold of her Majesty's — th Lancers.
Before Tel-el-Kebir the certainty that we
had work before us kept us going. Then
the ride down here was glorious, a match
against time, whether we reached Cairo intime
to save the city.'

Yes,' said Flood, ' from all accounts
you weren't an hour too soon. Arabs's
defeated troops would have fired and
sacked it in another .'


Just so,' replied Jack Cuxwold. * I
fancy that's what would have taken place.
Defeated soldiery 'rout of hand" would
probably treat a wealthy city in that way.'

Well, it's all over now ; and I suppose
you'll be soon coming home again ? '

Not a chance of our coming home forever
so long,' retorted Cuxwold; 'and as
or its being all over, I very much doubt

that. We've pooh-poohed the Madhi, and
there being no European troops engaged
in it, haven't paid much attention to the
annihilation of Hicks' column ; but these
Arabs are on the boil, and when a fellow
calls himself a prophet, if they only take
him up, there's no saying where their fanaticism
may not carry them.'

• Exactly ! ' said Flood. ' And I can
fancy these fellows thinking a raid from
their own sandy deserts into Lower Egypt,
in the name of religion, a very profitable
speculation. By the way, you were in luck
at dinner. That was a deuced pretty girl
you contrived to sit next.'

She was, Master Alec, and very pleasant
to talk to besides.'

Did you make out her name and belongings
? '

She is a Miss Bramton,' replied Cuckold
; ' and that little dark man who sat
next her was her uncle. They rather
puzzled me. She was as ladylike a girl
as you would meet anywhere ; but, hang
it, I can't make him out.'

Hardly looked a gentleman,' rejoined
Flood.

'No,' said the other, 'whatever he is,
he's not that. From what Miss Bramton
told me, I gathered that they had come
abroad for the benefit of her uncle's health.
He is delicate in the chest, and has fled
from the rigour of an English winter.'

o <z>

Then they're settled here for sometime?'


I suppose so. Miss Bramton told me
that they had no intention of leaving till
the winter was well over.'

As has been gathered from the previous
conversation, the Honourable Jack Cuckold,
second son of the Earl of Ranks-brow,
was a dragoon, whose regiment
had formed part of the original expedition
to Egypt. He had been present at the
battle of Tel-el-Kebir, and then joined in
Stewart's dashing ride to Cairo. Since
then he had been kicking his heels about
that city, and was now fain to confess
that he was most heartily sick of it. He
had been up the Great Pyramid, done

the Mosques, seen the Sphinx, ransacked
the Bazaars, assisted in getting up divisional
races, and, in short, to use his own words,
had thoroughly exhausted the Khedive's
capital. But he knew there was no prospect
of getting away, for with Gordon shut up
in Khartoum, and the storm clouds of battle
gathering In the desert, no man In health
could think of applying for leave. Alec
Flood was an old friend of his whom he
had come across two or three days before,
and with whom this evening he had been
dining at Shepheard's Hotel. Flood was
one of those men, whom you always do
come across, blessed with a comfortable
income and a restless disposition ; he literally
' wandered up and down upon the
earth.' As for his friends, it did not signify
what part of the world they had betaken
themselves to, they were always prepared
to see Alec Flood turn up in his usual
listless fashion. He never seemed to know
where he was going, and, what was very
exasperating to people of ordinarily well-regulated
minds, he never seemed to care.

If he was late for train or steamer, going
to such and such a place, he would get
into the next, perfectly regardless of what
its destination might be. 'What does it
matter ? ' he said upon one of these occasions
; ' I haven't made up my mind, you
see, where to go, but I'm quite determined
to go for the present' Cairo amused him,
it was not that he hadn't done it all before,
but he had met Cuxwold and two or
three other old friends, and so had resolved
to pull up there for a little. Unmarried,
and with no profession, he was free to roam
wheresoever he would. Like Ulysses,
he had seen men and cities, and could discourse
pleasantly of both, and was cordially
welcomed in all such society as he
affected ; but on this point he was somewhat
fastidious, and by no means to be
beguiled by all cards of invitation.

I say,' exclaimed Cuxwold at length,
we can't spend the whole evening in this
drowsy old verandah ; what do you say
to coming over there ? ' and he jerked his
head in the direction of the buildings that

shone out so brilliantly against the lights
of Cairo.

Anything to see much ? ' rejoined the
other sententiously.

Well, a music hall is a music hall rejoined
Jack Cuxwold. ' It's not so entertaining
as the Oxford, still one hears a
good song sometimes ; and they've a girl
there who warbles French chansons of the
Theresa type rather archly. At all events,
it is better fun than sitting here.'

Alec Flood said nothing, but rose and
prepared to accompany his mercurial guest.
Left to himself, he would have smoked
passively as an Oriental for the next hour
or two, and then retired to bed ; but the
restless Anglo-saxon blood of Jack Cuckold
rebelled against such passive enjoyment.


Come on,' he exclaimed, * it's no distance
; and though the streets of Cairo are
not policed like those of London, yet nobody
ever presumes to interfere with our
insular race in any way.'

No,' rejoined Flood, laughing; 'the conquerors

stalk abroad with much majesty
at present. It isn't till later on that the
conquered avenge their wrongs by midnight
assassination.'

Thus jesting, the two young men left
their hotel, and made their way to this
last exotic of Western civilisation newly
grafted on the East. The music hall
was, as Cuxwold had explained, of very
ordinary type, differing but little from
the conventional London entertainment.
Only in this wise, that there was a
considerable amount of French singing
introduced into it. Flood and Cuxwold
were perhaps more amused by the queer
flange of the audience than in anything
they saw upon the stage. The seemingly
congregation of all nationalities present,
from the Frank in light tweeds to his
brother in evening costume ; from the
Greek of the Levant to the Armenians ;
from the scarlet seized officer of the
Egyptian army to the undress of his
British compeer. Eastern dresses of all
kinds were scattered amongst the audience.

The hall was crowded, and, needless to
say, hot.

They had been there for about an hour,
and the mercurial Cuxwold was already
beginning to doubt whether the game was
worth the candle, when they were accosted
by a slim dark man of unmistakable Jewish
physiognomy, who, in somewhat indifferent
English, said, —

•Ah, pouf! Gentlemen, this place is
something too hot. What would you think
of adjourning to a little establishment that
I know of? Ha ! we get there something
cool to drink, and a beetle amusement. Ha!
we see the beetle ball go round and round,
we back the colour, we fill our pockets, we
rinse our throats ; ah, peste ! it is more
amusing than this place. What say you,
gentlemen ? Will you stroll across to the
establishment of my friend ? It is close
by. All the best gentlemen of Cairo lookin
there.'

Gambling-house tout,' said Flood, in an
undertone.

No doubt,' rejoined Cuxwold ; ' still

this is deuced dull. Suppose we go, Alec,
and look in for half an hour, just to see
how they manage these things in the
East;

All right, old man rejoined Flood ;
but a gambling-house is a gambling-house,
whether you see it in the East orin
the West. However, I don't suppose
that you or I will hurt ourselves much at
it. I am good to go if you like. Show
us the way in,' he said, turning to their
new acquaintance, ' and we will see if weare
in luck's view to-night.'

They emerged from the music hall
under the guidance of their new friend,
and, crossing the road, plunged at once
into the labyrinth of small streets that run
at the back of the Great Square, till their
guide stopped at a low doorway, over
which, as has been the fashion of such
dens from time immemorial, their blazed
a brilliant fanlight. A tap at the door,
and the portal was at once opened, and
their mentor led the way into a narrow
passage which opened into a brilliantly

lighted room, wherein a roulette table,
surrounded by a throng of eager speculators,
was in full swing.

A queer crowd, by Jove ! Jack ; some
villainous faces as ever I saw,' whispered
Flood.

Yes,' replied the other ; ' and look,
Alec, I'm blessed if there isn't our invalid.
There's Bramton punting, if I know anything
about it, like a man who means
business.'

Ah, gentlemen,' exclaimed their conductor,
* never mind that just now ; you
will allow me to be your guide. I am
well known here. I think just a quail
en aspic and a glass of champagne before
we battle the enemy.'

Right you are,' rejoined Cuxwold ;
^ I've a prodigious thirst on me.'

It strikes me we have met before, my
friend,' said Alec Flood, as they followed
the stranger Into an inner room, where
a liberally-furnished supper-table was laid
out. ' I can't quite recollect where.'

Impossible, monsieur,' interposed the

stranger. ' I have an excellent memory for
faces, and, monsieur will pardon me,' he
continued, with a low bow, ' his is not one
that we — ah, what you call it ? — forget.'

He called to the attendants, and Cuckold
and Flood were speedily supplied
with an excellent supper, washed down
with equally good wine. That finished,
they at once adjourned to the salon de
sue.

Now, messieurs,' said their guide,
laughing, * give me a lead. I never do
right myself. I will follow your game,
gentlemen.'

It was the ordinary roulette as played at
Monte Carlo or any other similar establishment
; but the eager faces and glittering
eyes of the gamblers showed that the play
was deep. There was all the silence that
would characterise a London card-room,
when the battle waged fierce, and if luck
went against them, ruin ere daybreak stared
some of the combatants in the face. But
these Eastern cannot control their physiognomies
like the children of the West,

and, though nothing but a smothered exclamation
or low ejaculation of triumph
escaped their lips, the flashing eyes and
flushed faces showed that the intoxication
of gambling was boiling in their veins.

A run on the red,' whispered Flood ;
best follow that as far as the colour cross.
Back the numbers to suit your own
fancy.'

Once more did the ball go circling
round, and again did the croupier asseverate
that red was the successful colour. It
speedily became evident to Flood that
what he had first deemed deep play all
round was pretty nearly confined in this
instance to Bramton, who had been evidently
losing heavily, was backing black
with dogged persistency, and was evidently
equally unfortunate in his selection of the
numbers. His face was cool and impassive,
but there was an angry light in his
eyes. As Flood and Cuxwold could see,
he kept on increasing his stake after every
Once more did the ball spin round,
and as it slowly hesitated which partition

to dribble into, the croupier, either
accidentally or by design, touched the
board with his hand.

Foul play, by G — d ! ' shouted Brandon,
springing to his feet. ' No such run
as this was ever brought about by fair
means ; that thief can pull the strings ashe
likes. I'll have back every shilling he
has won of me.'

In an instant all was confusion. The
men of that motley crew not only snatched
up their own stakes, but in some instances
perhaps as much of their neighbour's
as they could lay hands on. The
quiet of the chamber was broken, and
the room rang with a perfect polyglot of
blasphemy. The myrmidons of the establishment,
of course, gathered round the
bank, and well they might, for there
were those in that precious crew who
reckoned little of how money was come
by. ,

Disgorge, you scoundrel ! ' screamed
Bramton. ' If you don't return me the
money you've robbed me of, I bring the

whole place about your ears. I pay up when
I lose; but I'll be hung if I'll submit to
being robbed,' and, in the excitement of
the moment, he sprang at the croupier

For a minute or two the mede seemed
about to be general, and at all events a
sharp struggle took place around the
bank. Cuxwold and Flood half fought
half pushed their way to the scene of
action. Suddenly a shriek rang through
the room, followed by a cry of ' I am
stabbed ! ' The crowd fell back, and
Bramton reeled out of the niece, bathed
in blood, and fell fainting on the floor.
In an instant the two Englishmen were
at his side. Cuxwold raised his head,
and Flood, who in his wanderings had
acquired some slight knowledge of
surgery, tore open the wounded man's
waistcoat only to discover two deep
gashes in his chest from which the blood
was welling. The tragic ending of the
affair seemed to have sobered all those
present. They had meddled with an
Englishman — meddled with him even to

his death — and there was an obvious
desire on the part of the company to
depart as quickly and privily as might
be. A few minutes and the house was
cleared of all save the wounded man,
Cuxwold, Flood, and its proprietors ; and
these latter seemed In much perturbation
at the untoward occurrence. Cuxwold
noticed that the gentleman who had introduced
them was amongst those who
had disappeared. He had seen him just
before the commencement of the fray,
apparently staking his money on the
game ; but whether he had taken any
part in the scrimmage, or when he disappeared.
Jack couldn't say.

It's no use,' gasped the wounded
man ; * there's nothing much to be done
for me. I've got my gruel, and I know
it. Give me a glass of something, just
to keep me going for a few minutes
while I say what I've got to say. You're
Englishmen, both of you, aren't you?'

Flood nodded assent as he rose to his
feet.

No,' cried the dying man, as Flood
turned towards the door ; ' doctors are of
no use. I shall be gone before they can
get here.'

I regret to say that, Mr Bramton, I
agree with you,' replied Flood gravely.
I am only going to get you some
stimulant. We will do what we can do to
forward your wishes, but I know enough
of surgery to warn you that you have
no time to lose in telling us what you
want.'

Good chap your pal ; but he comes
pretty straight to the point, don't he ?
Well it's best, in cases like mine. Let's
see, I've seen your face before. Ah !
you're the young chap who was at the
hotel, and was so civil to Lucy. She is
a good girl that. She and Damocles are
the only creatures I care about on earth.
What I want you to do is this — is your
friend never coming with that brandy, or
whatever it is ? — I feel so faint.'

Here he is, here he is,' said Cuckold
softly, as he took the tumbler from

VOL. I. B

Flood's hand, and held it to Bramton's
lips.

The man swallowed it eagerly, and then
continued, —

That's what I want you to see about.
Just break it to her. Let her down easy.
Poor girl, she does care a bit about her
old uncle ; and then, you see, gentlemen,
she's all alone here in a foreign land, and
don't know the hang of things. If you'll
just put matters straight for her. Manage
all about this row ; take her passage for
England, and all that. There's plenty of
money ; Dick Bramton ain't dying a
pauper by any means. Give me some
more brandy. Thanks ; that'll do. Will
you promise to do what I ask, gentlemen .-^
Don't say more about this than you can
help. Say I'm dead, stabbed in the
streets, anything. Give her my love.
Where am I ? — it's getting dark. Tell her
to take care of Damocles. I wonder what
time it is ? I feel awfully sleepy. It's
hard, too, with the winner of the Derby
in your stable ; ' and with those words

Dick Bramton fell back upon the cushions
they had laid on him, and seemed to
sleep.

Slowly the blood flowed from the wound,
and trickled over the carpet, in spite of all
Flood's efforts to stanch it. A quarter of
an hour, a slight twitching of the mouth,
a faint fluttering of the eyelids, and Dick
Bramton's spirit had sped.

Good-bye IN REAL EARNEST.

By this time the gendarmes had made
their appearance upon the scene, and at
once proceeded to take possession of the
house and its occupants. Only for Cuckold's
uniform, there was no doubt but
both he and Flood would have found themselves
in custody ; but the guardians of
the law were shy of meddling with anyone
wearing the Queen of England's uniform.
The preliminary investigation told
nothing. The three men, who avowedly
were the proprietors of the house, protested
their innocence, and neither Flood nor
Cuxwold, although they were fighting their
way to Bramton's assistance at the time,

had seen who it was that had dealt those
fatal blows.

They certainly could formulate no accusation
against the three men in question.
Cuxwold took a high tone with the officer
of gendarmes, and that functionary at once
proved subservient and willing to do anything
the English captain deemed advisable.
He acquiesced at once to Cuxwold's
proposal that the body of the dead man
should be removed to the hotel at daybreak.
He would make every effort to
discover the murderer, and exert himself
to the utmost of his ability in order that
justice should be done ; but it was difficult.
They had many of such cases ; so many of
these Greeks, Arab dealers, traders, etc.,
from the Upper Province, carried knives,
and were wont to use them freely. He
would send down some of his men at daybreak
with a hand litter to remove the
deceased to Shepheard's Hotel. He would
not trouble the gentlemen more than he
could help, but it would be necessary that
Captain Cuxwold should give evidence

t>

before the Cadi, and then with ' plenty
salaam' to the two Englishmen, and a
fierce whisper to the proprietors of the
house, that if plenty of backsheesh where
not forthcoming, it would be the worse
for them, the man in authority took his
departure.

This is a nice business we've let ourselves
in for,' said Flood, in a low tone, as
they commenced their vigil o'er the dead.
I wonder what became of that confounded
little Semite. I can't help thinking I've
seen that fellow's face somewhere before.'

Well,' said Jack meditatively, * I suppose
all this would have happened whether
we had been here or not. The whole
thing passed too quick for us to save this
poor fellow ; but, for all that, it's as well
we were here.'

As you say so, my dear boy, I suppose
it is ; but upon my life I can't see it.'

We can do the poor fellow's last
bidding,' said Jack. * It's better that pretty
girl at the hotel should have the thing
broken gently to her, instead of hearing of

it abruptly. She will want some one, too,
to help her about all her arrangements to
return home, etc'

Flood eyed his companion curiously fora
moment, and then remarked, —

True ; you are a good fellow, Jack,
and always had a touch of chivalry in
your nature. Consider me as under your
orders in every respect about this affair.
I wonder who or what is Damocles — a
dog, I suppose ? '

I can tell you all about that,' replied
Cuxwold. ' That name reveals a good
deal to me about the poor fellow who's
gone. I don't do very much in the racing
way myself — younger sons can't afford it —
but I come, remember, of a regular racing
stock. My noble father and Dartree, my
eldest brother, are up to their eyes in it.
Well, if it's only to see what their horses
are doing, I always skim the racing intelligence.
Damocles is a two-year-old of
whom great things are expected. He was
bought for a lot of money last year by
Richard Bramton, who is a well-known

racing man — began life, I believe, as a
stable-boy — and who was yesterday one
of the luckiest owners on the turf.'

'Ah! a self-made man?' remarked
Flood.

Quite so ; I never saw him before last
night at dinner, and never dreamt of his
being the man who on the turf they call
Lucky Dick Bramton." How the deuce
a niece of his is what Miss Bramton isis
somewhat difficult to explain.'

It is odd,' said Flood. * She was as
refined, ladylike a looking girl as one
ever came across, and her poor uncle, even
in his last moments, quite justified your
opinion of him as to his not being a
gentleman ; he was very rough of speech.'

Yes,' replied Cuxwold ; ' but here are
the first streaks of dawn. Ah ! and here
come the gendarmes with their stretchers.'

The gendarmes at once entered the
house, and the remains of poor Dick
Bramton were at once placed reverently
on the stretcher by Cuxwold and Flood.
Under their auspices, the body was borne

back to Shepheard's Hotel, and safely
deposited in the dead man's chamber,
there to await burial. The proprietor of
the hotel was much concerned. Such a
thing as the assassination of a guest of
his within a mile of his house had never
happened before. He could not understand
it. When did it take place ? But
upon this point Cuxwold and his friend
were somewhat reticent, preferring at
present that the hotel-keeper should believe
it to be the result of a street brawl
rather than of 2^ fracas in a gaming-house.

Now,' said Jack, ' let's go up to )your
room. By the time I've made myself a
little decent. Miss Bramton, no doubt, will
be up, and I've got to tell her then what
has happened.'

People rise early in the East. There
is not much to induce one generally to
sit up in such cities as Cairo. Men will
sit up to play under all climes, and under
all circumstances. Nothing but the most
arbitrary law stops the gambler in his
favourite pursuit.

Miss Bramton was up betimes, and flitting
about her sitting-room, waiting for
her uncle to come to breakfast. They
usually took that meal more or less together
in their own apartment ; but her
uncle was habitually unpunctual, and Lucy
as often as not had finished breakfast before
Dick Bramton put in his appearance.
She was just debating in her own mind
whether she should ring for that repast,
when a servant entered and said that a
gentleman wished to see her. To the
very natural request of ' What is the
gentleman's name ? ' the waiter produced
an envelope, on the back of which was
written, ' Captain Cuxwold requests to
see Miss Bramton on business of urgent
importance.' That Captain Cuxwold was
the name of her neighbour at the table
dote on the previous night Lucy was
aware, and though the request was nota
little extraordinary, still, from what she
had seen of him, she could not but believe
that he must have reasonable grounds for
making it.

Tell the gentleman I shall be very
glad to see him

Another moment and Jack Cuxwold
entered the room, feeling, sooth to say,
considerably more nervous than was
his wont at being shown into a lady's
boudoir.

Good-morning, Captain Cuxwold,' said
Miss Bramton. ' The waiter tells me that
you wish to see me ; but we know how
stupid these people at the hotel are. It
is far more probable that your business
is with my uncle, whose acquaintance
seems to me to comprise men of all
kinds and conditions.'

No, Miss Bramton,' returned Jack
gravely, ' I regret to say my business is
with you. I grieve to say that your uncle
was seriously injured in a street fray last
night. I was present, and, though I did
my best, was unluckily too late to come
to his assistance.'

'Uncle Dick hurt!' exclaimed the
girl. ' Where is he ? I must go to
him at once ; tell me Captain Cuxwold,'

and the dark grey eyes looked keenly
into his.

It's what I've come to do, Miss
Bramton. Please be quiet, and sit down,
and don't make my task more difficult
than it is already. Everything has been
done for your Uncle Dick that is possible,
and it would be useless your going
to him now.'

'Why not ?' she exclaimed. ' He maybe
rough, he may be uncouth, but he
has been the best and dearest uncle tome
always. He has never grudged any
expense if he thought a thing would give
me pleasure. If he is seriously hurt, my
place is at his bedside ; it is trifling with
me, Captain Cuxwold, not to tell me
where he is. No one can nurse him as
well as me.'

'You have misunderstood me, Miss
Bramton. I fear I am doing my errand
badly. Cannot you understand, there are
cases past all nursing } '

Past all nursing,' repeated Lucy. ' Do
you mean to tell me,' she continued

slowly, while her eyes dilated and her
voice dropped almost to a whisper, ' that
my uncle is dead?'

Even so,' rejoined Jack. ' I saw him
struck down with my own eyes — was with
him to the last — and have brought his
dying message to you.'

'Saw him struck down, sir!' exclaimed
the girl indignantly ; ' and is the man
alive who dealt that felon blow, or is hein
the hands of the policemen'

He has escaped justice so far, Miss
Bramton,' rejoined Cuxwold, in low tones.

And what were you doing, sir ? Did
you stand aside and see death dealt
out to one of your countrymen without
raising your hand ? You are a soldier,
and a powerful man besides. It surely
couldn't be that you were afraid to
interfere ? '

Cuxwold's face flushed under the undeserved
taunt.

No,' he said quiet, after a moment's
hesitation, ' I don't think it was that. It
was chance brought me and my friend

upon the scene. Your uncle was struck
down before we could reach him.'

Forgive me, I feel that I have done
you injustice. I hardly knew what I was
saying. You see the shock has come
suddenly upon me, and I loved him very
dearly ; but I must see him. Where is
he?'

There is no difficulty about your seeing
him, Miss Bramton. We watched by
him through the night, and brought him
here at daybreak. We have laid him in
his own room.'

Take me to him, please said Lucy,
still struggling with her tears.

Jack Cuxwold silently conducted her to
the dead man's chamber, and left her on
the threshold. Lucy Bramton walked
swiftly to the bed, and gently drew back
the sheet. One glance was sufficient.
There could be no doubt that the destroyer
had claimed her uncle. She
pressed her lips to the dead man's forehead,
replaced the sheet, and then, falling
upon her knees by the bedside, burst

into a paroxysm of weeping. The tear-storm
did her good, and when some
quarter of an hour later she emerged
from the silent chamber, her face, though
very pale, was calm. Somewhat to her
surprise, when she entered the sitting-room,
she found Jack Cuxwold seated
there.

I've no wish to Intrude upon your
grief, Miss Bramton,' said Jack, rising. ' I
have only waited to tell you that I will
do everything that Is necessary about the
investigation of this unfortunate occurrence.
I will also make every arrangement
for the funeral, which, as perhaps
you are aware, out here will have to
take place at once. I will say no more
now, but leave you to collect your thoughts
and think over what you wish done.
When you want me, you will have
nothing to do but to ring the bell
and say so. I shall be somewhere
about the hotel,' and without waiting
for the thanks which Lucy was about
to proffer, Jack left the room.

The investigation of the murder proceeded
in the leisurely way characteristic
of all business in the East. There was no
clue to the assassin, and, as was pointed
out to Cuxwold, no probability of his
being discovered unless a large reward
was offered, and as Flood, who knew
the East well, observed cynically, ' It
will be doubtful whether you get the
right man even then, as some of these
fellows to obtain money would just as
soon swear their fellows' lives away as
not'

Richard Bramton was quietly laid to
rest in the English cemetery ; and thus
terminated the tragedy which was destined
to have a singular effect on the future of
two of the people indirectly mixed up in
it. Lucy Bramton naturally decided to
return to England by the very next
steamer. Jack Cuxwold took her passage,
and even accompanied her by railway to
the point of embarkation. As he wished
her farewell on the deck of the steamer
Lucy said, —

I made a shameful accusation against
you In the first moment of my agony,
but I know you would make every
allowance for a grief-stricken girl, and
that you have forgiven me. Is It not
so?'

Pray don't mention it,' replied Jack.
I have forgotten all about It.'

You have been very kind to me,
and If ever you come Into Berkshire,
I hope you will let papa thank you
for all the care you have taken of his
daughter.'

I had no Idea you lived In Berkshire,'
said Cuxwold.

We are newcomers in the county,'
replied Lucy, ' and know very few people
as yet. Good-bye.'

I am afraid It Is good-bye in real
earnest now, they've passed the word,
"All for shore." Good-bye; I hope
you'll have a good passage, and next
time I'm in Barkshire I shall come and
see you. However, I'm not likely to
leave this country at present. Once
VOL. I. c

more, good-bye and Jack pressed the
little hand extended to him, raised his
cap, and disappeared across the gangway.


THE TELEGRAM.

A LARGE suburban villa of the very best
type, for such really is the only way to
describe the house, though it stands
many miles away from the metropolis,
surrounded by grounds which no doubt
in spring and summer were extremely
beautiful. One could fancy the horse-chestnuts,
copper-coloured beeches, and
laburnums in all their glory ; the great
clumps of rhododendrons and azaleas all
ablaze ; and those trim beds in the
parterre, which at the present moment
are what the gardeners call 'banked up,'
glowing with brilliant flowers, borders of
lobelia, golden chain, and low scarlet geranium.

But this brlo^ht March morning
the hand of winter still holds nature in
its grasp, and though the snowdrops and
crocuses are beginning to peep aboveground,
it is as yet far too early for the
unfolding of leaves or the sono of the
birds, except on behalf of those foolish
feathered creatures who, like humanity,
are too apt to think that one fine day
makes a summer.

Pacing up and down the terrace, outside
the drawing-room windows, is a
stout, pompous, middle-aged gentleman,
who, with his shooting jacket thrown
back, and his thumbs stuck into the
arms of his waistcoat, is contemplating
the grounds with an air of patronising
approval. You can read what he thinks
in his face. He is evidently saying to
himself, ' Yes, you are mine, and pretty
well up to the mark, I believe. I don't
suppose in all Barkshire there's a prettier
place than Temple Rising.'

If Mr John Bramton's feelings could
have been more thoroughly analysed, his

reflection would have been somewhat In
this wise, — ' Yes, it's a pretty place ; ita
doomed good house ; they are monstrous
nice grounds, and so they ought to be,
considering I keep four gardeners to look
after 'em. Yes, no doubt it's a nice thing
to retire, and to become a country gentleman,
but I'm not sure whether the old
villa at Wimbledon wasn't better fun. I
used to see my old friends there. Mrs
B. and Matilda said they were vulgar. I
don't know about that. Mrs B. tells me
I'm vulgar sometimes ; perhaps I am. I
wasn't brought up among Court circles.
If I had been, Mrs B. might have been
wearing silk gowns, but she'd have had
to do it on credit most likely. Well, she
and Matilda have got their way. Here
I am, John Bramton of Temple Rising,
and enrolled amongst the nobility and
gentry of Barkshire, — plenty of money in
my pockets, best of wine in my cellar,
dry champagne and Madeira that I'd
back to knock corners off anything the
Right Honourable Earl of Ranksborow

can show. Well, as I said before, here
we are, here we are likely to remain, but
the nobility and gentry of Barkshire don't
seem to trouble their heads about us.
It's aristocratic no doubt. We're classed
in the county blue book amongst the
nobs, but that's where it is ; we're not
classed among them anywhere else. It's
aristocratic, as I said before, but it's
devilish dull, and what's worse, Mrs B. is
always reminding me of that fact. She
blows me up about it, as if I could make
people call as when I was in the dry
goods' business. We put our best goods
in the window, and if that didn't fetch
customers we couldn't help it. Now, one
can't do that socially. If I got up a
tableau of Matilda in her best frock, and
a small table at her right hand containing
a vase of hothouse roses, and a bottle of
that extra dry champagne, and put it in
the dining-room window, nobody would
see it ; and I don't think I should quite
like to propose it to Matilda. She hasa
soul above trade, and could never be

brought to see the beauty of a good
advertisement.'

John Bramton had made a very considerable
fortune in a wholesale dry goods'
business in the city. A wary man always,
when he bean to find business irksome to
him, he resolved to retire. He had seen
too many of his compeers, who, under
similar circumstances, had elected to remain
in their firms as sleeping partners,
abandoning the guidance of the ship to
other hands, and the result bring utter
shipwreck in the course of a few years.
When he left the helm, he resolved to
have no further share in the caro^o. He
retired to his villa at Wimbledon, and
enjoyed himself immensely, running into
the city constantly to have a crack with
his old friends, and frequently bringing
home stout, plethoric, middle-aged gentlemen
to dinner.

But this by no means suited the ambitious
views of Mrs Bramton and her
eldest daughter. As for Lucy, the
youngest, as her mother and sister continually

told her, she was a poor, mean-spirited
little wretch, who had no proper
pride or self-respect. Mrs Bramton panted
to mix in county society, to give garden
parties to which the elite of the neighbourhood
would be only too anxious to
attend. We know the old story, ' Water
wears away the stone, and a woman's
tongue by degrees will vanquish a man's
will.' In utter defiance of his own judgment,
John Bramton sold the snug villa
at Wimbledon in which the late prosperous
days of his life had been passed, and
invested in the far more pretentious manor
of Temple Rising.

'John, John, here's a telegram just come
for you exclaimed a stout, very dressy
lady, appearing at one of the French
windows opening on to the terrace ; ' and
have you taken any steps about what I
told you 1 '

Perhaps you wouldn't mind being a
little more explicit. You see, my dear,
you tell me a good many things.'

Now, don't be aggravating ; you know

what I mean. You must get appointed
one of the magistrates of the county. I
insist on your being on the bench.'

It's all very well, Margaret,' replied
John Bramton ; * but I can't appoint myself,
and what's more, It would not be quite
the advantage you expect It to be. Where
is this telegram ? '

Don't talk nonsense, John. In attending
to your magisterial duties,' continued
the lady with great pomposity, ' you would
make the acquaintance of all the leading
people on this side the county. There's
the Earl of Ranksborow, why he lives
only four miles from us.'

'Just so, Margaret ; but these nobs have
a way with them,' replied John Bramton,
as he stepped through the window and
took the telegram from his wife's hand.
They would know me on the bench, but
not off it.'

As he spoke he tore open the orange
envelope, and suddenly exclaimed, —

Good heavens ! it's from Lucy. Poor
Dick is dead, and she's coming home by

the next steamer. Poor fellow ! we haven't
seen much of each other of late years.
Our ways were so very different.'

Well, I am very sorry for your brother,
John, but I must say the peculiar language
he was wont to indulge in always did jar
upon my nerves.'

Poor Uncle Dick,' observed a showy,
fashionably-dressed young lady, who was
seated in a low chair by the fire, as she
laid down the book she was reading ; ' he
was dreadfully slangy, and it always puzzled
me how Lucy could like going abroad with
him. However, he was very kind-hearted.'

Poor Dick, he was as kind a fellow as
ever stepped,' said John Bramton. 'As
for his talk, well I suppose it was the slang
of his business. Never understood anything
about racing myself, though, mind
you, I have been to the Derby. Now,
you needn't look, Mrs B. 'Twas many
years ago, long before I was married.
The only thing I remember about it is
that I came home with a broken hat and
a false nose.'

Uncle Dick's death must have been
very sudden,' remarked Miss Bramton.
In her last letter, Lucy described him as
being so much better, and having quite
lost his cough. The telegram, I suppose,
tells you nothing, papa.'

It only says this : " Uncle Dick died
suddenly ; am coming home by next
steamer ; particulars by mails"' The
chances are Lucy will be here almost as
soon as her letter.'

There ought to be a bit of money come
your way, John. I should say your brother
was a well-to-do man ; and he has nobody
but you to leave it to.'

Goodness knows, my dear,' replied
John Bramton. ' I never understood that
trade of his ; but it's lightly come lightly
go with all those racing fellows ; their
pockets are full to-day, and empty tomorrow.
No need to speculate to what
poor Dick has left behind him or where
it goes.'

That the dead man's had been as mucha
business as his own was a thing you

couldn't possibly have got into John
Bramton's head. In his mind there was
no difference between a race-course and
the tables at Monte Carlo. He really
was as ignorant about turf matters as it
was possible for any man in England to
be ; and that visit to Epsom, when he was
quite a young man, was the sole instance
of his ever being present at a race meeting.
He had always regarded his brother
as a perfectly unbusinesslike man, upon
no other grounds than that he got his living
in a way utterly unintelligible to him,
John Bramton ; and he honestly thought
that the probabilities were the deceased
had made no will, and left next to nothing
behind him.

But the family at Temple Rising were
destined to be still more astonished when
the post brought in the evening paper. It
had never occurred to the Bramtons that
Uncle Richard was a celebrity in his way ;
on the contrary, he was a relative of whom,
if anything, they were a little ashamed ;
and both John Bramton and his wife,

especially the lady, had always treated
Richard in a more or less patronising way.
Their astonishment was boundless when,
upon opening the Globe, they read the
following telegram, dated Cairo, —

We regret to announce the death hereunder
most melancholy circumstances, of
Mr Richard Bramton, a gentleman well
known in turf circles, and who, from the
extraordinary good fortune which attended
him on the race-course, had acquired the
sobriquet of " Lucky Dick Bramton."
The deceased gentleman, it seems, had
found his way into one of those low ,
which, to our everlasting
disgrace, are still permitted to exist in
this city. It seems a fracas arose. In the
course of which some of the foreigners
used their knives freely, and the unfortunate
gentleman was so fatally stabbed
that he expired of his wounds within the
hour. The event is calculated to create
great excitement in sporting circles. The
deceased was the owner, though fortunately
not the nominated, of Damocles for

his numerous engagements, and this dark
youngster has the reputation of being
a two-year-old very much above the
common.'

Well,' said John Bramton, * upon my
word, it's very handsome of this newspaper
fellow to mention poor Dick in that
manner, although, perhaps, on the whole,
it would have been better if he had not
referred to where his death took place !
Murdered, poor fellow ! God bless me !
what else could he expect, going into such
a den as that ? Poor Dick, he always
was venturesome, and never could resist
gambling. It's a bad business, a bad
business.'

It must have been a very unpleasant
business for Lucy,' chimed in Miss
Bramton. ' How dreadful for her, poor
girl, to be mixed up in such a horrible
story.'

Now, look here, Matilda,' said her
father, ' what do you mean by " mixed
up ? " You don't suppose Lucy went
with her uncle to that den, do you ? '

I am sure I don't know,' replied Miss
Bramton, with a toss of her head.

John Bramton was persistently snubbed
by his wife and eldest daughter, and asa
rule bore it meekly ; but there was one
thing which they knew by experience
invariably provoked retaliation on his part,
and that was any abuse of Lucy. John
Bramton was very fond of his youngest
child, and never failed to take up the
cudgels on her behalf, although too easygoing
a man to do so on his own. A day
or two more, and, not a little to his surprise,
Mr Bramton received a letter from
Messrs Drysdel and Pecker, solicitors,
informing him that they were the legal
advisers of Richard Bramton, and requesting
to know if he had received any confirmation
of the death of their client,
adding that they knew no more than what
was reported in the papers ; but that, upon
making inquiry at the office of the journal
in which the original paragraph had
appeared, they had been informed that
the intelligence had been cabled home

by an old and trusted correspondent, and
that the editor felt no doubt as to its
accuracy.

*You may depend upon it, John,' exclaimed
Mrs Bramton, when she heard
of this letter, * that he has left property
behind him. A man who has solicitors
is sure to be a man of substance, and, of
course, they communicate with you as the
next-of-kin.'

You are rather hasty in your conclusions,
Mrs B.,' replied her husband.
Bankrupt firms usually have solicitors.
I could fancy poor Dick perpetually wanting
a lawyer to get him out of some hobble
or other.'

Now this, again, was a perfectly unwarrantable
assumption on the part of the
elder brother. He had never heard of
Dick being in a scrape of any kind ; butin
his complete ignorance of the mysteries
of a trainer's calling, he looked upon him
as one of those who habitually occupied a
delicate position with regard to the police.
However, of course, he replied to the letter

of Messrs Drysdel and Pecker, informing
them that he had had a telegram from his
daughter which confirmed the news of her
uncle's death, that Miss Bramton was on
her way home, and was expected at
Temple Rising in a few days. His answer
produced another letter from Messrs
Drysdel and Pecker, in which they briefly
requested to be immediately apprised of
that young lady's arrival.

Suspicious chaps these lawyers ; must
have evidence that poor Dick is dead. I
suppose he fancies that Lucy can swear
to it.'

VOL. T.

DICK BRA M ton's WILL.

There was a ringing of bells, and a sound
as if a tornado had swept through the
house, when about a week later Lucy
Bramton, in deep mourning, drove up to
the door of Temple Rising. It was not
in the least that this ostentatious style of
arrival accorded with Lucy's ideas, but her
father and mother had no notion of paying
servitors for nothings the man at the
lodge didn't make the bell peal again, and
thereby give due notice to the outside
world that there were visitors at Temple
Rising ; if the butler did not throw open
the door with a crash, and make the very
walls resound with the name of those

visitors ; if the very footman did not in
some way contrive to pervade the very
stairs with the intelligence that Mr and
Mrs So-and-so had done themselves the
honour to call at Temple Rising, they
were of no account, and useless in the
eyes of Mr and Mrs Bramton. No people
these to conceal their light under a bushel ;
and if perchance a duke or very much
minor light of the peerage should deign
to call upon them, they were most distinctly
of opinion that it would be good for
all Barkshire to know it. Poor Lucy, terribly
shocked at the tragedy which, so to
speak, had taken place almost under her
own eyes, would have crept quietly enough
into her own home, if she could have done
so, but the henchmen of Temple Rising
were much too well-trained for anything
of this kind, and before she could clasp
her mother's neck, the name of Miss Lucy
Bramton was sounded through hall and
corridor, and neither the Grand Duchess
of Russia, nor the heiress of that mythical
monarch Prester John, could have been an-university

OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARlfi

bounced with greater fanfare of trumpets.
Miss Lucy Bramton ! Miss Lucy Bramton
! ' resounds through hall and staircase,
and then the slight girlish figure
in black is sobbing on the breast of a
middle-aged, bald-headed, prosaic-looking
gentleman.

Very, very glad to see you back, my
dear!' exclaimed John Bramton. ' It has
no doubt been a terrible shock to you and
poor Dick. Well, of course, we always
knew he carried on anyhow, but I never
thought he would make an end of it that
way.'

Once for all, father, understand this,'
exclaimed the girl, rapidly releasing herself
from his embrace, and drawing her
slender figure up to its full height, ' I will
listen to no reflections against Uncle Dick.
He might be rough, but he was ever tome
the kindest and most indulgent of relations
; not a whim or caprice of mine
that he would not indulge. You are a
kind and a dear father to me, but even
you have never humoured me in the way

poor Uncle Dick used. How he got into
that wretched place, how he met his doom,
I can't think. I, at all events, can bear
to hear no stones thrown at his memory.
I know what mother is, I know what
Matilda is, let them think as they like,
but please, please father, let them say
nothing against Uncle Dick's memory
before me.'

No, no ; certainly not, my dear. I'll
tell your mother, and I'll speak to Matilda.
They shan't trouble you, my pet,' and
then John Bramton inwardly wondered
what deference to his prohibition would
be accorded by that dictatorial wife of
his.

It was an awful shock for me when
they told me he was dead. He left me
after dinner, as he said, to smoke a cigar,
as he had done scores of times before.
What induced him to go to the villainous
den at which he met his death, I can't
say. I have been abroad with him often,
and feel sure it was contrary to his usual
habits ; but he's gone. I kissed his dear

face, and I can't bear to hear anything
said against him. Let it be, father. He
has gone ; whatever his faults might have
been, don't let me hear of them.'

Quite right, my child, quite right,' said
John Bramton, gently patting the head
that nestled on his shoulder. ' I'll do my
best, but you are aware that your mother,
and, I may say, even Matilda, are a little
trying under these circumstances. Good
woman, your mother, very good woman,
but she will speak her mind, you know ;
and Matilda, well Matilda takes a lite
bit after her mamma. I will do my best.
I will speak to them ; but bless you,
Lucy, you know when your mamma is
** on the rampage " she can't hold her
tongue ; and I wouldn't say a word against
Matilda for the world ; but whenever she
marries, I think her husband will come
pretty much to the same conclusion. Good
women both, my dear, but rather free of
speech.'

The third morning after Lucy's return
was signalised by the arrival at Temple

Rising of Mr Pecker, junior partner of
the firm of Drysdel and Pecker. He was
cordially welcomed by Mr Bramton in the
first instance, and at once proceeded to
unfold the object of his errand.

We have acted for some years as the
legal advisers of the late Mr Richard
Bramton. We made his will, which is
dated some five years back. It is very
simple, and to the best of our belief perfectly
incontestable in any court of law.
The deceased gentleman was an excellent
man of business.'

'What!' exclaimed John Bramton ; 'Dick
a man of business ! Nonsense ! don't tell
me.'

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders.

Ah,' he said, ' I see ; like many other
people you're under the delusion that
racing men are not men of business.
You are wrong ; professional racing men
are about the most astute men of business
I ever come in contact with. I have
considerable experience of them, and
remember, I draw a great distinction

between racing men and men who go

racing.

Well, to hear that poor Dick was a
man of business beats me ! ' said John
Bramton, evidently in utter amazement
at the bare idea.

You must take my word for it,' said
Mr Pecker, smiling. ' You will perhaps
also be surprised to hear that he was a
man of considerable property. As the
greater part of his securities are deposited
in our hands, and as we possess a list
of those which he thought fit to keep
at his bankers, we can speak confidently
on this point. Mr Richard Bramton
has left behind him about five-and-thirty
thousand pounds, besides his racing stud.
What that may be worth I have no
conception. I have no knowledge of
such matters.'

Five-and-thirty thousand pounds ! ' exclaimed
John Bramton. ' Why I should
never have given Dick credit for as many
hundreds ; and who has he left it all
to?' - .

He has left everything, the horses Included,
to his niece, Miss Lucy Bramton,
and you are appointed sole executor. I
have brought the will with me for you
to read ; it's very brief, and cannot well
be simpler, with the exception of this
codicil ; and about this, I must tell you,
I'm not quite sure. It saps, as you will
see,' and Mr Pecker pointed to the place,
^ quite clearly that the horses are to be
run through their engagements. This, as
far as I understand, means that Miss
Lucy cannot dispose of the stud till such
engagements as have been made for the
various horses have been decided. Whoever
has charge of them will, I presume,
advise her how to manage on that point ;
but it is open to question whether she
has the power of selling them before their
engagements have expired.'

You are aware, Mr Pecker, that my
daughter is a minor, that I consequently
am her natural trustee, and that what is
to be done with those horses will therefore
rest in my hands ; and I tell you what it

is, sir, I don't want any time to decide.
I know nothing about race-horses, and
don't want to. I'm not going to take to
gambling at my time of life. Those
horses go to the hammer before six weeks
are over our heads.

Ah ! ' said Mr Pecker, putting his head
rather on one side, * this gives rise to the
rather curious question of whether you've
the power to act in this way. There is no
doubt about the body of the will ; but our
late client, just before starting on his last
unfortunate trip to Egypt, had his will,
together with some other papers, back fora
night, and has added this codicil himself,
without consultation with us. It is a delicate
and most interesting point to know
whether that codicil implies a wish, or imposes
a condition.'

Condition ; nonsense ! ' exclaimed Mr
Bramton. ' You can't make it a condition
that I'm to keep an expensive lot
of animals that I don't want.'

Oh, yes, my dear sir ; excuse me,
that's quite possible. Old ladies are very

apt to provide for favourite cats in that
way. As I told you, I'm not quite prepared
to say the codicil does that. You
will have to take counsel's opinion on
it if necessary ; but as you are acting
for your daughter, and I can't suppose
that Miss Lucy would have any desire
to keep on her uncle's stud unless she
was obliged, it would be possible perhaps
to treat it as merely a wish ; and
then, my dear sir, it becomes a matter
of simply what deference you mean to
pay to the desire of your deceased
brother.'

Don't put it in that way ! ' exclaimed
Mr Bramton. ' Of course I am anxious
to do everything that poor Dick wished,
but he never could have intended that
either Lucy or myself were to take to
horse-racing. Now come into the other
room, and have some lunch.'

In a few minutes, Mr Bramton, with
pleasure ; but I shouldn't be doing my
duty if I didn't personally read and explain
this will to Miss Lucy. It won't

take five minutes, if you will only be good
enough to fetch her.'

John Bramton rose, and speedily returned,
accompanied by his younger
daughter. He had briefly explained the
fortune she had come in to, and what she
was wanted for. Mr Pecker, on being
introduced to her, wasted no time, but
proceeded at once to business. He read
the will through, codicil and all, and
briefly explained to her the doubt which
existed in his mind as to which way the
codicil was to be regarded, whether as a
wish or a condition, winding up with the
remark, ' But as this is a matter that lies
between you and your father, it is hardly
likely to be called into question.' He
then briefly congratulated her on her
inheritance, looked at his watch, and
said, —

And now, Mr Bramton, if you can,
give me something to eat. I've just
twenty minutes to spare before starting
for the railway station.'

Lucy had made no comment upon the

will, except to acknowledge the lawyer's
congratulations. She had hardly opened
her lips, but for all that, she had listened
very attentively to what Mr Pecker had
said to her, more especially with regard
to that strange codicil. To say that she
had come to any resolve concerning it
would be absurd. She did not exactly
comprehend as yet what it meant. All
she knew was this, that the colt called
Damocles was one of her uncle's most
cherished possessions, and that his dying
message had commended Damocles to her
care.

About this period it suddenly dawned
upon Her Majesty's Government that a
person called the Mahdi was about to
occasion trouble in Upper Egypt. Her
Majesty's Government, with that grand
geographical ignorance that usually characterises
it, whether Liberal or Conservative,
suddenly awoke to the fact that a
place called Khartoum was rather an important
city in those parts which it behoved
them to hold. Her Majesty's

Government, furthermore, became somehow
aware that a person of the name of
Gordon had more knowledge of those
parts than any one Having. Further, that
the said Gordon was an officer of considerable
distinction, and that, if there
was anything to be done in the way of
saving Khartoum, this was the man todo
it. Government, not particularly clear
about what the especial object was in
saving Khartoum ; not in fact very clear
about the Soudan and Upper Egypt
generally, but hazily aware that the Mahdi
promised to be an uncomfortable fact in
the case, and give trouble generally, at
last gave Gordon a roving commission todo
as he thought best for the pacification
of the Soudan, and then, after the usual
manner of British Governments, having
picked out the very best man for the
work, proceeded to tie his hands in all
possible directions. They took no notice
of what he demanded, although he made
his way promptly to Khartoum ; informed
them at once that it was the key of the

Soudan, and that as long as he held that,
let what wild work might go on in the
desert, he was the virtual ruler of the
country. Government read his despatches,
said, ' We have bombarded Alexandria,
put down Arabs, taken Cairo ; good, it
will be time enough now to see about
Egypt in another year or two.' Letter
after letter, despatch after despatch, came
from the grand soldier who had taken
upon himself this terrible burden. The
errand which the Government had sent
him on they now sought to repudiate.
They tried to make out that his mission
had been of his own seeking ; but the
gathering roar of the British public at
last convinced them that they stood bound
to fall by the man they had virtually sent
to grapple with the insurrection of the
Soudan.

By this time all England was aware
that Chinese Gordon was shut up in
Khartoum, and was defending himself
against swarms of fanatical Arabs. Closely
beleaguered though he was, he managed

to get despatch after despatch through his
myriad foes ; and those short pithy despatches
never varied in their tenor. ' I
can hold my own he invariably said,
till the end of December ; that passed,
we shall be destitute of food, and I can
guarantee no more.' Months still intervening
between this and December, but
the heat of summer having commenced,
and the fall of the Nile having begun, it
suddenly occurred to the Government
that, however late it might be for an expedition
of this kind, the irritation of the
British public must be appeased. Utterly
deaf to the man they had doomed to destruction,
the Government yielded to the
political outcry of the country, and summoning
all the military experts to their
councils, debated as to how Khartoum
might be most speedily relieved. That
they had probably hit upon the best
device to achieve that result is possible ;
we only know two things, they were
too late, and they did not take the
route which Gordon, who might be

supposed to know something about it,
advised.

All this discussion and turmoil as to
the relief expedition took place just after
Lucy Bramton had come into her inheritance.


VOL. I. E

THE HELIOTROPE.

A VERY lively club was the Heliotrope,
much given to baccarat, poker, and divers
games at times not recognised at clubs
of greater stability, — one of those mushroom
night clubs that spring up and are
wont to have the mushroom's ephemeral
existence. All London — that is, the tenor
twelve thousand people who consider
themselves all London — would have unanimously
admitted that, to put it mildly,
the members of the Heliotrope were a
'lively lot.' It was a club with no architectural
pretensions whatever ; indeed, the
three hundred members who constituted
it contented themselves with a roomy first

floor off the Strand. The club, indeed,
practically consisted of three rooms :
the supper-room, card-room, and kitchen.
There was much discussion, scandal, and
tobacco going on in the supper-room one
evening, when a studious member, who
had pulled himself together and devoted
himself to the mastery of the evening
papers, suddenly exclaimed, —

Hallo, Dart, here's something will
interest you ! '

*Very glad to hear it,' replied a tall,
good-looking young fellow about thirty.
It's such a godsend when anything does,
considering the awful way in which those
fellows down at St Stephen's bore us.
Can't conceive myself what makes the
governor so persistent about my going in
for representing the county. Suppose he
suffered from it himself in his youth, and
thinks it a wholesome chastisement for
his first-born. What's your news? If
you've found anything in that paper,
drawl it out.'

Only this,' replied the speaker ; * Dick

Bramton has got wiped out in a gambling-house
row at Cairo : and considering your
father snapped all the yearling books
about Damocles when the colt was sold,
I thought it might interest you.'

'Interest me; by Jove ! I should think it
did ! ' said Lord Dartree. '' I took twenty
thousand to three hundred about Damocles
once, and the governor took it as often
as he could get it. In fact, between us
we captured every yearling book there
was going. Damocles is entered in the
name of his breeder, so that's all right;
but Avhat becomes of him is quite another
matter. Dick Bramton would have run
him as straight as a die. He is an
old racing pal of the governor's, and
knew he could have any fair share of
the plunder that he chose to stipulate
for.'

He'll most likely be sold now, I
should think,' observed Anson, the gentleman
who had read out the news.

Suppose he will,' rejoined Lord Darted.
•' I must try and persuade the governor

to buy him, though how the deuce
we are to lay our hands on ten thousand
pounds, or whatever it is they want for
him, I'm blest if I know. We have got
partridges, we have got stabling, we have
got gardens, and no end of a library at
Knightshayes, but, my dear Anson, we
haven't got any money. Everybody
knows that the agricultural interest has
gone to the devil, and that your big
landowners are merely genteel paupers

Only wish I was one of you genteel
paupers too,' said Anson, who was one
of those extraordinary young gentlemen
who had knocked about town for years,
and couldn't if he tried have explained
to his dearest friend how he did it ; but
he had one of those elastic minds that
was equally prepared to discuss with his
friends the raising of ten thousand pounds
or a five-pound note. In fact, in his
more volatile moments, he had been
known to say that ' it was the insignificance
of the sum required that made
the difficulty. You see,' he would continue,

'when you want a few hundreds,
and your name is well known about
London, the money-lenders can't believe
but what there is some prospect of your
paying ; but when you go to them for
scribblers, they want to know what office
you're in, or some rot of that sort. Drib-
bless are connected with clerkships ;
hundreds with visionary incomes.'

It's a deuce of a bore,' said Lord
Dartree. * From all I hear, this is an
uncommon smart colt, and the governor
stands to win over a hundred thousand
pounds on him. Now, if he's put up for
sale, it's as likely as not that he will be
bought by the very men who laid the
money, under which circumstances, it is
not likely he'll win the Derby next year.'

No,' said Anson, ' it's hardly likely
they'll win the race for the pleasure of
paying you all this money. One don't
know, but the probability is the horse
will be put up for sale. Pretty sure to
be, unless there is racing stock in the
family ; and I always understood that

old Dick Bramton had neither chick nor
child ; never heard he had a relation of
any kind. Nobody knows much about
him. But he began life as a stable lad,
didn't he ? '

Something of that sort said Lord
Dartree ; ' don't know exactly, but he
could always win races when he meant
business. The governor's no fool ; and
when he found out that Bramton had
bought the colt he went to him at once,
and said point blank, " I have got all the
yearling books about Damocles for the
Derby. My risk, not yours at present.
You have nothing to do but to tell me at
the end of his two-year-old career how
much you would like of them, and you
will find me quite reasonable." '

And what did he say ? ' asked Anson.

" All right, my lord,' was his reply.
** If the colt turns out as good as he looks,
you will have a rare run for your money." '

It's uncertain property to invest ina
two-year-old that has never run,' remarked
Anson ; ' but then people wouldn't

lay such liberal odds if there was not all
the uncertainty about it. You'll have to
buy the colt if you can, or else come to
some arrangement with his new owner.'

I suppose so,' replied Lord Dartree.
'It's a great bore. Can't understand a
man like Dick Bramton getting into such
a scrape. Should have thought him too
clever a man to play against the tables.*

You might have known better than
that,' laughed Anson. ' Who know better
the folly of backing horses than the bookmakers,
and yet they do it at times.'

True,' replied Dartree ; * we all deride
the idea when in London of playing
against the tables, but as soon as we get
to Monte Carlo we feel bound to try our
luck.'

Well, what becomes of Damocles must
interest you much. Still, if any one can
rise to the occasion, it Is your noble
father.'

'Why, that is just what I tell you he
can't,' retorted Dartree Irritably. * You
may know what to do, and not be able

to do it. This is a question of money,
and that is exactly what I have told you
the noble house of Ranksborow has not.'

No,' said Anson quietly ; ' but Lord
Ranksborow is a man of infinite resources,
more especially on the turf. It's very
easy to do most things with money, but
it takes a clever man to attain his ends
without. Now I have a very high
opinion of your father's talents in his own
line ; indeed, in any line. Years ago, he
showed in the House of Lords what he
could do ; and before that, in the House
of Commons, as Lord Dartree, was pronounced
one of the most promising young
ones out. But he cut politics for racing,
and, as we all know, is as good a judge
as any man on the turf.'

Well,' rejoined Lord Dartree, ' he hasa
great opportunity now for exercising
his faculties, and by hook or by crook
acquiring the control of Damocles. Buy
the colt he can't, unless they are willing
to sell on tick, Which is not at all likely.'

No,' rejoined Anson, ' there's not much

of that in horse-dealing ; still I've great
confidence in your father, and only wish
I had a bit of your book, for though the
colt has never run, I doubt a good man
laying you half the odds now.'

But if the members of the Heliotrope
were fluttered at the news of the death
of Dick Bramton, it made a much more
considerable stir down at Newmarket.
Stubber the trainer was simply, to use
his own expression, 'flabbergasted.' Even
his intimate friends, who really were as
much puzzled and disappointed about the
affair as himself, could not refrain from
laughing at Mr Stubber's melancholy refrain
of ' What's to become of the bosses ? '
He discussed the affair with them from
every point of view ; he vowed that
Damocles was the speediest yearling he
ever tried ; and look at the blood, too,
by Tyrant out of Packthread; the Tyrants
always stay. He eulogised the dead man,
and said, ' There were few shrewder menon
a racecourse than Mr Bramton. Why,
he'd have won a fortune with this colt ;

and now I should just like to know what's
to become of the losses ? It's cruel I've
never had the luck to train the winner
of the Derby yet, and I did think I should
do it next year

The curiosity to know how Dick Brandon
had disposed of his property was very
great at Newmarket, but none of his
friends there seemed to be aware that he
had had a brother. In fact, though they
might be supposed to be better informed
about the dead man's family than the
members of the Heliotrope, they seemed
equally ignorant that he had either kith or
kin belonging to him. Still it is so rarely
that a man stands utterly alone in this
world, that they all supposed his property
would go to some distant relation ; but on
one point they were unanimous, and in
response to the trainer's dolorous question,
rejoined that the horses would come to the
hammer. Cold comfort all this for Sam
Stubber, who really was honestly wrapped
up in his charge. He was a conscientious
man, and thoroughly to be trusted, or he

never would have been employed by Dick
Bramton. He was a man of much experience,
and though perhaps somewhat sanguine,
quite understood how to try a horse.
They had very good trying tackle in the
stable, and as far as it was possible to testa
colt of the age of Damocles, Mr Staples
had done so, and with very satisfactory
results. In fact, as he told his intimates,
he had never tried a youngster so high
in his life, and the thought that his
favourite would be probably taken out
of his charge was gall and wormwood to
him ; and of course it was probable that
whoever bought Damocles would transfer
the horse to his own stable. Still at
present he heard nothing from anybody
on this point, and at this Mr Stubber
and his friends marvelled greatly. What
could be the meaning of it ? Could
Richard Bramton have died intestate,
and were they searching for his heir,
or had he died insolvent ? He had made,
no doubt, a good bit of money on the
turf, but then there was the manner of

his death — killed in a gambling-house ;
and no people knew better than the
Newmarket men how quickly it is possible
to knock down any amount of turf
winnings in houses of that description.
The rooms at Newmarket, like those at
Doncaster, had been wont to give instructive
lessons on that point. In the
meantime the spring was drawing on.
The Two Thousand was a thing of the
past, and the New Stakes at Ascot had
been selected for the debut of Damocles,
when one morning, after returning from
the Heath with his charges, Mr Stubber
was informed there was a gentleman in
the parlour who had arrived from London
and wished to see him. Sam Stubber
at once went into the room, found his
visitor gazing in an absent way out of
the window, and invited him to join him
at breakfast.

I shall be very glad,' replied the latter.
The morning air gives one an appetite,
and we can discuss our business over it as
well as anywhere. I must at once introduce

myself as Mr Pecker, of the firm of
Drysdel and Pecker, solicitors. I have
come down to see you about the racing
stud of our late client Mr Richard
Bramton.'

'Well, Mr Pecker, I'm right glad to see
you, though I am afraid you bring no good
news for me. What's to become of those
bosses has been a sore puzzle to me. I
suppose they're to be sold, and I should
very much like to know who'll buy two or
three of 'em.'

*Well, we've got no immediate instructions
about them,' replied Mr Pecker ;
'but I should suppose that would be
their destiny, as far as we can guess.
What I've come down here for is to
make out a list of what horses there
actually are, and to ask you to give mea
rough valuation of them.'

And whose property are they at this
minute ? ' inquired Mr Stubber.

That,' replied the attorney, ' I am not
at liberty to mention, and it's possible
you will never know. They will be sold

as the property of the late Mr Richard
Bramton ; and how he has disposed of
his personal property is, I take it, of not
very much consequence to anyone.'

Before I say anything about the
valuation, Mr Pecker rejoined the
trainer, ' I should like to ask you when
you think of selling these horses, because
that would make a difference.'

Oh, I see,' rejoined the lawyer, ' sometimes
are more favourable for that sort
of thing than others.'

'Just so,' replied Mr Stubber ; 'the
most valuable horse, I reckon, in Mr
Bramton's stud, is a two-year-old called
Damocles. Now you can dispose of him,
no doubt, for a good round sum by private
contract ; on the other hand, you can run
him for the New Stakes at Ascot in
about three weeks' time — a race that he's
pretty certain to win, and which, if he
does win easily, will considerably increase
his value.'

• And which course should you recommend,
Mr Stubber.^'

That must depend upon what sort of
a man the present owner is. In the first
method of disposing of the colt there is
no risk, in the second there is. The
youngsters in the New Stakes are mostly
dark, and there may be one, though I
don't think it, too good for us. If
Damocles got badly beat, the gilt would
be off the ginger-bread. Then there
are the chances of training. Damocles
is as sound as a roach, but legs will go,
and bosses give trouble when least expected.
If his new owner's a sportsman,
he'll run him,' and Mr Stubber cast an
inquiring look at the lawyer.

I'm sure I can't say about that,' replied
Mr Pecker, with an amazed look.
I can only report what you tell me to
my client. I don't understand anything
about these things myself

Then perhaps, sir, you wouldn't care
to go round the stables ? '

On the contrary, if not against all
rules, that is precisely what I should like
to do,' rejoined Pecker.

^ ' Then come along,' said Mr Stubber,
'and I'll show you Damocles, and all the
rest of 'em.'

Mr Pecker was excessively pleased withall
he saw, and when introduced to Damocles,
a lengthy dark chesnut colt, with
thighs let down like a greyhound's, not
only expressed the greatest admiration for
him, but was so pertinent in his remarks
about his shape, that the gratified Mr
Stubber, when he bade the lawyer goodbye,
said, —

Well, sir, you may know nothing about
racing, but you do know a good loss
when you see one.'

VOL. I.

A DELICATE COMMISSION.

It's all very well, John, but you must
exert yourself. Other folks have to doit
when they go into a new neighbourhood.
You must make acquaintances ;
people must be made to call. You've
dragged us down here to Temple
Rising — '

Upon my soul, Mrs Bramton, I like
that,' interrupted her husband. ' Dragged
you down here, indeed, when the old villa
at Wimbledon was quite good enough forme.
You would have me set up as a
country gentleman ; you said it was more
genteel. It strikes me we are not quite
genteel enough for the people round
here — '

Pooh, nonsense ! ' rejoined Mrs Brandon
; ' they may be very great swells, but
they're a poor lot. As far as I can
make out, there's very few of them drive
such carriages as I do. I'm sure you
could buy most of them up. Even Lord
Ranksborow, who has never deigned to
take the slightest notion of us, I am told
is as hard up as any one. You surely
might scrape acquaintance with him.'

I tell you it's impossible ; it's not the
thing, you know, for us to call first. I
did tread upon his toe at that meeting
about the flower show, and then apologise,
and remark it was a fine day. I took off
my hat to him quite affable the next
time we met, but, Lord ! he only just
touched his, and evidently didn't recognise
me in the slightest degree.'

Now what did I tell you, John, were
my reasons for buying a country place ^.
Simply, I said, to get the girls well
married. You've lots of money, John ;
now what do the girls want ? — blood and
position.'

*Ah! I know,' returned her husband,
this blue blood they're always talking
about ; but I don't know where they sell
it, or how to buy it.'

Don't talk nonsense ! ' returned the
lady sharply. ' There are lots of young
men among these county families who
would be only too glad to marry a good-looking
girl with money ; and, though I
says it myself, my girls can bear looking
at in a ballroom as well as any of them.'

Well, it's no good talking about it, my
dear. I don't see how the girls are to
marry without meeting young men ; and
the people about here apparently don't
care about knowing us. Now, when we
were at Wimbledon, there were lots of — '

John ! stockbrokers and City men,'
interrupted Mrs Bramton. ' Yes, I know
that ; but I look higher a good deal for
my girls, I can tell you. We m2tst make
the people know us.'

It's all very well,' replied John Brandon,
* to say we must.'

Very well,' interposed his wife, ' then

I'll put it stronger, and say they shall.
You know, Mr Bramton, I'm a woman of
energy — '

Ah ! yes, my dear, and of great conversational
powers. I have never known
you without something to say.'

And with this mild sarcasm John Brandon
was about to leave the room, when
the door opened, and a footman said, —

There's a gentleman to see you, sir,
on business.'

What have you done with him, William
? '

Shown him into your study, sir.'

Quite right, William ; quite right,
William,' said Mr Bramton pompously.
Visitors to the drawing-room, people on
business to my study,' with which remark
he followed the servant to the room in
question.

A stout, middle-aged man, with grizzled
hair, keen eyes, and a shrewd face, who
was apparently admiring the pictures on
the walls, turned abruptly and greeted
him.

You've a beautiful place here, Mr
Bramton. I couldn't help admiring it as
I drove up the avenue. These pictures,
too, are some of them remarkably fine.'

Yes, I believe they are. They ought
to be. I gave a lot of money for 'em.
I left that department when I was furnishing
to old Lazarus of Ardour Street,
and he assured me they were all gems
and all bargains. Ha! ha! I've been too
long in business to swallow that last,
Mr — ' and here John Bramton paused a
moment while he glanced at his visitor's
card, ' Mr Skinner. Still I don't think
old Lazarus would cheat me altogether.'

I don't think Mr Bramton is a man
who is easily got the best of,' replied the
stranger, smiling. ' I have no doubt that
you are as good a judge of a horse as you
are of a picture.'

Tol-lol,' said John Bramton, drawing
himself up, and falling into his favourite
attitude with his thumbs stuck into the
armholes of his waistcoat. ' I keep my
fellow up to the mark, I can tell you.

You'll see some rare, shiny-coated, long-tailed
ones in my stables.'

'Ah,' said Mr Skinner, *I see you
know how a horse ought to look. Weare
a horsey nation, and there never was
an Englishman who didn't consider himself
a judge of a horse.'

John Bramton was flattered. The
stranger had tickled him like a trout.

A very pleasant, gentlemanly man,'
thought the host; 'sees at a glance I'm
a judge of pictures and horses. Whatever
business he has come about doesn't
seem to be urgent. I daresay he would
like a walk round the grounds. Hang
it ! I'll ask him to lunch. We don't see
many people ; it'll be a change. By the
way, Mr Skinner, perhaps you would
like to look round the grounds 1 '

Of all things,' replied the stranger.

And will do us the favour of stopping
to lunch afterwards?' continued Mr
Bramton.

The stranger bowed assent, and in
another minute or two they were strolling

through the gardens and pleasaunce. Mr
Skinner admired everything, the hothouse,
the conservatory, the orchid house, vinery,
and stables.

I think Temple Rising the most perfect
gentleman's seat I've ever been over,
and I've had some experience. By the
way, Mr Bramton, I've been so taken
up in admiring the pictures, horses,
flowers, etc., I quite forgot to mention
that I knew your poor brother Dick
very well.'

Did you, indeed ! that's odd. Poor
fellow, I never knew exactly how he lived.
He was always gambling. Came by his
death through it.'

It was a bad business,' said Mr
Skinner ; ' and how Dick Bramton came
to go in for roulette, rather beats me. I
suppose he found it dull out there. Nothing
to do, nobody to talk racing with.
He wanted a little excitement, and he
would know how to take care of himself,
too. I don't mean when it came to
knives, for he was a little man, and a

delicate man, but he was a very leading
man on the turf, I assure you, Mr
Bramton.'

Ah ! so I've understood lately. He
left a comfortable bit of money behind
him. They tell me,' and here John Brandon
looked a little inquisitively at his
auditor, * that he made a regular business
of it.'

Bramton, in fact, was not quite sure
whether Mr Pecker had not been either
mistaken himself or hoaxinof him when
he said that the turf could be made a
business.

Business of it ! I should think he did ;
and so do most men who are really
on it.'

Come in at this window, Mr Skinner,
and let me introduce you to the ladies,
and then we'll go in to lunch.'

They stepped through the window.

Margaret, my dear,' exclaimed John
Bramton, * let me introduce you to a
friend of poor Dick's ! My daughters,
Mr Skinner.'

The visitor bowed, and then, turning
to Mrs Bramton, said, —

Yes, ma'am, Dick Bramton was a very-old
friend of mine, and was one of the
cleverest men we had. No man ever
made more dashing coups on the turf.
I assure you he was well known to all the
racing magnates.'

Now, Mrs Bramton, who during his
lifetime had had the greatest contempt
for her brother-in-law, had considerably
changed her opinion since she had learnt
that he had left five-and-thirty thousand
pounds behind him, and left it, as she
considered, though not quite properly, still
satisfactorily. ' It ought to have been
left,' she argued, * to her husband in the
first instance, even if it went to Dick
Bramton's favourite niece afterwards.'
Then she had been rather struck by the
very flattering notices about him that had
appeared in the papers.

Yes,' she murmured, * I believe he
was very well known to the members of
the Jockey Club.'

Mr Skinner bowed assent.

And a very successful man besides.'

Very,' rejoined their visitor.

So clever, and so successful,' said Mrs
Bramton, smiling sweetly, * that I believe
the Jockey Club paid him the compliment
of warning him off the turf.'

Mr Skinner's sole reply was a burst of
laughter ; and it was a minute or two
before he could at all master his risible
faculties.

Ten thousand pardons, my dear
madam ! ' he exclaimed at length, ' but
I'm sure you don't understand what you
have said. "Warning off the turf" is a
punishment for disgraceful practices on
it ; and poor Dick never did anything to
warrant that extreme sentence of the
Jockey Club.'

John Bramton, on hearing this explanation,
exploded even more boisterously
than Mr Skinner, while poor Mrs Bramton
blushed as red as a peony, and Miss
Bramton bit her lip with vexation, and
muttered to herself, —

Mamma is always committing some
gaucherie like that.'

My eye, Margaret, you have put your
foot into it!' said John Bramton, as
soon as he could speak. * You see, Mr
Skinner, we ain't racing people. We
don't know anything about it. Poor
Dick and I went different ways in life,
and never saw very much of each other.
When we met, you see, we had nothing
in common. He didn't understand my
business, nor I his. In fact, I thought
his business was gambling until the
other day. Now let's come in to
lunch.'

Do you live in this neighbourhood,
Mr Skinner?' said Miss Bramton, as they
took their places at table.

No, I regret to say not. My business
compels me to live in London ; but it
must be a charming part of the country.
Thickly populated, so many gentlemen's
places, plenty of society, and all that sort
of thing.'

*Well, that's just what it isn't,' said

Mrs Bramton. ' There are plenty of
people, no doubt, but they're not inclined
to be sociable, — rather stiff and stand-off—'


Mamma, mamma,' interposed Miss
Bramton, * you forget. The fact is, Mr
Skinner, we are newcomers in the county,
and, as you know, it always takes time
to know people.'

Yes,' said Mr Bramton, ' your ma is
right, Matilda. That's just what they
are, 'aught. Now, here's my neighbour
the Earl of Ranksborow, I'm sure I wish
to be sociable, but he don't seem to
see it.'

I think, papa,' said Lucy quiet,
that you're a little impatient. I daresay
we shall know people in time, although
not perhaps the Earl of Ranksborow.'

I am staying at Knightshayes,' observed
Mr Skinner. ' I'm sure you will
find the Earl a very pleasant and courteous
neighbour as soon as you know
him. Somewhat quick-tempered, perhaps,
but that's all.'

Oh ! no doubt,' replied John Bramton
hurriedly. ' I'm sure, when I trod on his
toe by accident at the flower show meeting,
he accepted my apology quite affable
like.'

Well, I really must be going,' said Mr
Skinner, rising. 'What with your charming
place, and your kindness, I have
quite forgot what I came about. I must
ask for a word with you in your study
before I leave.'

Certainly,' replied Mr Bramton, and
Mr Skinner having said good-bye to his
hostess and her daughters, followed his
entertainer to the room in question.

The fact is,' said the visitor, ' I have
been told you have inherited poor Dick
Bramton's racing stud. Amongst those
horses is a colt called Damocles. It has
never run, but I candidly own that it is
supposed to be good. I am commissioned
to offer you one thousand pounds
for him.'

One thousand pounds ! ' ejaculated
John Bramton. ' I know they give long

prices for some of these racers, but a
thousand pounds is a mint of money.'

It is,' replied Mr Skinner drily. ' I
have known as much paid many a time
for quite as good-looking youngsters as
Damocles, and they've turned out not
worth a row of gingerbread.'

Quite so, quite so,' replied John
Bramton. 'A thousand pounds! — you're
in earnest, Mr Skinners'

Never more so,' replied that gentleman.
' I'll write you a cheque for that
sum now, and let you know where to
send the colt after it's cashed.'

A thousand pounds ! ' exclaimed John
Bramton, starting to his feet. * If poor
Dick's horses sell like this, he has left a
deal more than I reckoned on. Excuse
me one moment, Mr Skinner,' and so
saying John Bramton dashed off in search
off his daughter.

Lucy, my dear,' he exclaimed, as he
pounced upon her in the drawing-room,
here's such a chance to get rid of one
of those horses. Mr Skinner has offered

a thousand pounds for Dam — Dam —
something.'

Oh ! papa, papa ! ' cried Lucy.

No, my dear, I don't mean that. I'm
not a damning anything, only I can't recollect
the name of the horse.'

Damocles, I suppose, papa ? '

That's it. Think what a chance,
Lucy ; a thousand pounds for a wretched
brute who does nothing but eat, and, as
Mr Skinner says, may turn out good for
nothing. You can buy yourself a pair
of ponies, or anything you like, and put
a lot into the bank besides. We shall
never get such a chance again.'

'I don't know, papa; I'm not so sure
about that. I know more about the value
of racehorses than you do. Mr Skinner,
remember, was an intimate friend of poor
Uncle Dick's. The probability is, that he
is a much better judge of what Damocles
is worth than either of us. I know Uncle
Dick thought a great deal of that horse ;
besides, what made Mr Skinner come all
the way from London to offer you a thousand

pounds for that horse, if he didn't
think he was going to make a good
bargain ? '

Pooh ! he didn't come down on purpose.
He's staying,' continued Mr Brandon
pompously, and sticking his thumbs
into the armholes of his waistcoat, ' with
my neighbour, The Right Honourable
the Earl of Ranksborow/

Well, never mind where he came
from, papa. He wouldn't come over
here quietly and offer you a thousand
pounds if he didn't think he was getting
Damocles cheaply.'

Upon my word, Lucy, I believe you're
right. You see I never dealt in these
kind of goods before. Perhaps that
Skinner is trying to "best" me. Never
mind, Lucy, you'll find your old father
is a match for most of them,' and so
saying John Bramton returned to the
study.

Well, Mr Skinner,' he said, as he
entered, ' I don't think it'll quite do.
My girls have a fancy for that horse. I

VOL. I. G

think it 'ud make a nice lady's 'horse, for
instance.'

Mr Skinner opened his eyes wide.
That a man should go and consult his
wife and daughters about the disposal
of a racehorse was to him a thing past
all understanding. Recovering himself,
with an easy smile, he said, —

You will have your joke, Mr Brandon.
Not quite enough, eh ? Well, I'll
make it guineas.'

But all John Bramton's business instincts
were now thoroughly awakened.
If Mr Skinner could afford to spring in
his bidding, it was obvious that he was
offering considerably less than the valuation
he put upon the colt in question.

No,' said John Bramton ; ' I won't
sell him just at present.'

'Well, no harm done,' replied Mr
Skinner, as he rose to go. ' I have had
the pleasure of making your acquaintance,
and shall be able to tell Lord
Ranksborow what very charming neighbours
he has got'

Ah ! do now, do now. That's kindly
of you. Tell him we do the thing .
Very glad if his lordship will
come In and take a snack with us anytime
he is passing this way.'

Mr Bramton insisted upon accompanying
his guest to the door, where a neat
dogcart was awaiting him. Just before
stepping into It, Mr Skinner turned and
said, —

I tell you what, it's overstepping my
commission, but I'll take my chance of
that. This Is my last word. Here's
twelve hundred for Damocles, and I'll
write you a cheque this minute.'

No, no, thank ye,' replied Mr Brandon.
* No ; you see we've taken a fancy
to the horse — quite a pet in the family —
not to be thought of. Good-bye, goodbye
; so glad to have seen you. Remember
me to his lordship,' and with
these words Mr Bramton bustled back
into the house.

Good Lord ! ' he muttered, ' to think
that I should ever refuse twelve hundred

pounds for a horse. If he had buttonholed
me a minute longer on the steps,
I must have taken it. Oh, dear ! if Lucy
is wrong, I shall never forgive myself for
having missed a chance like that.'

MR SKINNER REPORTS PROGRESS.

The Rlofht Honourable the Earl of
Ranksborow had been not at all badly
described by Anson at the Heliotrope — -
an undoubtedly clever man, a brilliant
man in pretty nearly everything he essayed,
but wanting in one great thing,
namely, stability of purpose. He was
always disappointing his friends in whatever
pursuit he took up. His early
efforts were invariably so crowned with
success that great things were expected
of him. At one time in the political
world he was regarded as one of the
most rising young men of his party. He
was then Lord Dartree ; and it was prophesied

of him that, with practice, he
would become one of the best speakers
in the House. But suddenly he cast
politics on one side and took to steeple-chasing,
and distinguished himself at first
by riding with great dash but equal want
of judgment. However, he threw himself
into his new pursuit with all the
ardour habitual to him, and racing men
were soon full of astonishment at the way
in which he improved. At one time he
had dabbled in literature, and some of
his hunting and society ballads were in
all the world's mouth. One thing after
another he took up only to throw upon
one side just as he was beginning to
make a name in it. As one of his most
intimate friends said at the time, * Darted
is a rare beginner, but he can't
stay.' To all the pursuits of his youth
the Earl had remained faithful only to
the turf and the whist-table. He had
lost thousands at the former, but the
latter was no doubt worth some hundreds
a year to him. He was a scientific player,

and nobody had ever seen the Earl lose
his head either on the race-course or at
the card-table, which, considering his
naturally hot temper, showed that he had
considerable strength of mind when his
interests required it.

So you bungled it, Skinner. I gave
you a pretty liberal limit, too ; and, from
all I can hear, this John Bramton was
neither likely to want the colt nor to be
aware of his value.'

No, my lord,' rejoined Skinner quietly,
I have made no mess of it whatever. I
did not bid to anything like what you said
I might. It would have been no good ;
it would have been showing one's hand
for nothing. This John Bramton knows
nothing of horses, but is a shrewd man,
with commercial instincts. The minute
he found I wanted the colt, he rushed
at the conclusion that it was worth
more than I bid for it. He doesn't
know what it's worth, but he is terribly
afraid of letting it go under its full
value.'

And there are plenty of people to tell
him that,' growled the Earl.

*Yes,' rejoined Skinner; 'and you
know, my lord, there are plenty of people
would go a good deal higher for the colt
than you authorised mee.'

'Yes! Confound it! I'd bid high
enough if I had it, but then I haven't.
Damocles is worth more to me than he
is to any one else.'

The scene of the above conversation
was Lord Ranksborow's private den at
Knightshayes — a very different sanctum
from that of Mr Bramton. Instead of
pictures, the walls were lined with bookcases
containing a curious medley of literature.
The Racing Calendar stood cheek
by jowl with Horace, Juvenal, Tacitus,
etc., while the English classics were
mixed up with the Sporting Magazine
and numerous old books which referred to
the turf in its earlier days. Above the
fireplace was a large oil-painting — the sole
one in the room — representing the great
match between Voltigeur and the Flying

Dutchman, run over the Knavesmire in
'52, while opposite this was a tall mahogany
cabinet with glass doors, through
which you could see trays filled with
cigars of every description, something like
one of those cabinets in which collectors
keep birds' eggs, only on a larger scale.
Mr Skinner had so far told the truth
when he had said that he was staying at
Knightshayes. Indeed he often came
down for a night or two ; but he certainly
had not informed Mr Bramton of his exact
position there. He was a very leading
turf commissioner, and amongst his clients
had for many years numbered Lord
Ranksborow. In fact, in the early part
of his career, Mr Skinner had been indebted
to the Earl for many remunerative
commissions, and owed his first start
in his vocation to that nobleman having
taken him up and recommended him to
two or three of his racine friends. But
the Earl treated him completely as a man
of business. He was always comfortably
put up, an excellent dinner and bottle

of wine was always provided for him, and
Lord Ranksborow would sometimes dine
with him in the library ; but. he would
have as soon thought of asking his butler
to join the family circle as Mr Skinner.
What the deuce is to be done ? I
fancied the looks of that colt immensely
when he came into the sale-ring. When
Dick Bramton endorsed my judgment
by giving a long sum for him, I fancied
him still more, and, as you know, I
snapped every yearling book I could get
hold of about him. Of course I told Dick
he could have as much as he wanted, and
he told me, poor fellow, just before he
went to Egypt, that he had tried him — " a
clipper." Stubber told me the same thing
again this spring. I never had such a
chance ; and now, goodness knows into
whose hands the colt will go. What the
devil is to be done, Skinner ? Take a
weed, Skinner. Put on your considering
cap, and think it out,' and as he spoke
the Earl pushed his cigar-box across to
his commissioner.

The latter carefully selected a Cabala
from the box, lit it, and smoked for two
or three minutes in silence.

There's only one way out of It that I
can see, my lord,' he observed at length.

I suppose you mean a big ten thousand
pounds and have done with it. I tell you
I can't ; I haven't got it.*

No ; I don't mean that exactly. I
think I see a way by which you might
possibly become owner of Damocles for
very much less money than that ; say
for the fifteen hundred which you authorised
me to go to. And you know, my
lord, that anybody who knew anything
about horse-flesh would simply laugh at
such a bid as that. Our only chance of
getting hold of Damocles was Mr Brandon's
total Ignorance of everything connected
with racine.'

'All's fair in horse-dealing,' rejoined
the Earl sharply. ' Be good enough,
Skinner, to remember that I don't employ
you to moralise, but to act.'

His lordship was quite aware that, in

attempting to buy Damocles at the figure
he proposed, he was being guilty of a
piece of uncommon sharp practice, and
by no means relished being reminded of
it by his subordinate.

'Well, my lord,' said Skinner, 'I think
if you would drive over to Temple Rising
and see Mr Bramton yourself, and offer
him the fifteen hundred, he would very
likely take it from you.'

I don't see that he is more likely to
take the price from one man than another.
If you thought that, why the deuce didn't
you offer it him .^ '

Because, my lord, I don't want to lose
your custom. I've heard you say again
and again that you never employ fools
knowingly. I purposely stopped at twelve
hundred, in order to leave you an opening.'


I'll be hung if I understand you ! '
exclaimed the Earl.

Mr Bramton has just bought a property
near you, and is simply dying to
make your acquaintance. Take my advice

; call upon him at once, admire his
place and welcome him cordially to the
country. Call upon him again two or
three days later, offer him fifteen hundred
for Damocles, and I'll bet you a level fiver
it's a deal'

What ! call upon that d — d tradesman
! ' exclaimed the Earl.

Think of Damocles softly murmured
Mr Skinner, and then Lord Ranksborow
burst into a peal of laughter.

What on earth put this idea into your
head?'

When one goes horse-dealing, one
naturally looks out for the weak points
both of the horse and his owner. You
know the old cant, my lord, of the dealer's
yard, " I wouldn't part with that animal to
any one but a real horseman like yourself."
Of course the dealer there is simply tickling
his customer's vanity. You must
tickle Mr Bramton's vanity. I don't suppose
he ever knew a real lord before, and
he's just simply death upon knowing one
now.'

'By Jove! I'll do It, Skinner!' cried
the peer, laughing, * I'll do it ! '

Remember, the sooner the better. As
soon as it oozes out who Damocles
belongs to, it's quite likely there will be
others as anxious to buy as we are.'

Yes, and with more money,' muttered
the Earl. * No, you're quite right ; it
must be done at once. I'll drive over tomorrow
afternoon.'

By the way,' said Skinner, laughing,
I quite forgot Bramton's message. He
sent you his kind regards, and he hoped,
any time you were passing, you would
drop in and take a snack.'

Confound his impudence ! ' exclaimed
the Earl. ,

He further bid me tell you,' continued
Skinner, his mouth twitching with suppressed
laughter, ' that they did the thing
tol-polish at Temple Rising.'

For a moment Lord Ranksborow's eyes
flashed, and then the absurdity of the
whole thing struck him, and he once
jiiore burst out into a peal of laughter.

I will, Skinner ; by heavens, I will !
On the strength of that message, I'll go
over to lunch there tomorrow. I'll make
myself deuced agreeable both to Bramton
and all the ladies of the family.'

There's one thing more, my lord. Do
you think the ladles of your family — '

Stop, sir,' interrupted the Earl. * My
calling is one thing ; it does not much
matter whom I know. With the Countess
and my daughters it's a very different
thing.'

Well, my lord, of course it's not for me
even to pretend to know anything about
these things, but remember it's a card in
your hand. If the Countess would call,
and you could just once in a way ask
them over to a family dinner, upon my
word, when you came to the wine and
walnuts, I think Mr Bramton would give
you Damocles.'

You mean well. Skinner, but I can't
have the Countess and my daughters
mixed up with such a menagerie as this.'

I can be of no further use to you, my

lord, in this matter, and will be off by the
early train tomorrow morning. Any
other instructions you have got to give
me, you will of course write or wire to
the Victoria Club.'

Good-night, Skinner ; you've done
your best, and though you couldn't accomplish
the deal, we have at all events
got soundings.'

Good-night, my lord,' rejoined the
commissioner, as he threw the end of his
cigar into the fireplace and took his bedroom
candle.

A shrewd fellow that,' muttered the
Earl, as the door closed behind his agent.
I always said he would come to the top
of the tree ; and I suppose he has the
working of quite half the big commissions
that come into the market, and nobody understands
the manipulation of the strings
about a big handicap better. That was a
masterly stroke of his, stopping at twelve
hundred ! It leaves me the chance of
offering fifteen hundred in an outburst of
patrician liberality,' and the Earl chuckled

at his own sarcasm. 'What a judge of
human nature the beggar is ! He turned
that John Bramton inside out during the
couple of hours he spent at Temple
Rising. Poor Molyneux ! to think that
Temple Rising should pass into the hands
of a fellow who has made his money in
soap boiling, grey shillings, or some such
business. It seems but yesterday Molyneux
and I had our cottage at Newmarket,
and always took a place at Ascot
together. I wonder where he is now.
I implored him to hedge his Vanguard
money that Cesarewitch day, and I can
recollect now the smile with which he
said, " It's neck or nothing this time, old
man. I've got every acre of Temple
Rising on it. I'm going for the gloves,
and intend to be a man or a mouse over
this," and mouse it was. Ah, well, if
Knightshayes hadn't been strictly entailed,
I'm not certain it would be in the family
now. Well, tomorrow I must go over
and call upon this vulgar tradesman, I
suppose. If I could only get Damocles

VOL. I. H

into my own hands, I'd give the ring a
shaker. Sharp fellow, Skinner, and not
given to make mistakes. I hope he hasn't
made one upon this occasion. By the
way, I wonder what Skinner was. He
must have had a superior education and
bringing up, he is so much better mannered
than most of his brethren. An odd
thing one is always hearing stories of
what the leading bookmakers were before
they took to their present profession.
Heaven knows whether these legends
are true or not, but the odd thing is I
never heard anybody claim to know what
Skinner's antecedents might have been,'
and absorbed in this conjecture, his lordship
betook himself to his chamber.

As for the subject of these speculations,
he murmured, as he laid his head upon his
pillow, —

He'll only half do it, I know. His
confounded pride will stand in his way.
Yet, if any man on the turf wants a turn,
it's the Earl of Ranksborow. If he would
only just put his pride in his pocket, drive

over to Temple Rising with the Countess,
and be a bit sociable with the Bramtons,
he might just now have Damocles at his
own price. Til lay a hundred but he'll
only half do it to start with, and before
he has thoroughly made up his mind to
swallow the Bramtons, John Bramton will
have come at the fact that the colt is
worth a deal of money.

LORD RANKSBOROW CALLS.

John Bramton's daughters had been, as
is so often the case, brought up in a ver)'
different style from their father and mother.
They were quite ignorant of the genteel
poverty in which their parents' early days
had been passed. They had never seen
anything of that close economy in the
household which had been necessary, when
they were too young to recollect it, in
order to make both ends meet. John
Bramton had got his foot upon the ladder
when he ventured to marry, and his progress
up it had been rapid. ^

By the time Matilda and Lucy Bramton

were children old enough to take note of
such things, their father, though not rich,
was in comfortable circumstances, and
from that time his store increased rapidly
year by year. He was a capital business
man, and a lucky one to boot, as lucky
in one line as his brother had been in
another. His daughters were sent to the
best of schools, and finished off at a
fashionable boarding-school. They were
pretty, lady-like girls, but differed a good
deal in disposition. Matilda was burning
with a desire to push her way into good
society, and looked down upon her father's
old friends and acquaintances with the
greatest contempt. She it was who,
working through her mother, had been
the main cause of their selling the villa
at Wimbledon and purchasing the estate
of Temple Rising from its luckless and
ruined owner. She wished to sever all
connection with what she was pleased
to term her father's ' City set,' and
had only just discovered that it docs
not follow that, because you settle in a

county, that county will receive you with
open arms.

Lucy differed in some respects from her
sister. She was quite as much awake to
the pleasures of good society as Matilda.
It was natural that both girls, refined as
they had been by their bringing up, should
shrink a little from the boisterous jokes
and vulgarity of their father's old friends.
He himself often set Matilda's teeth on
edge in this wise ; and of her mother's
gaucheries that young lady had much
horror. Lucy was equally alive to her
parents' weaknesses in this wise ; but the
difference between the two girls was this :
that whereas Matilda could scarcely conceal
her impatience of her father and
mother's failings, Lucy never forgot that
they were her father and mother — a circumstance
which, when irritated, Matilda,
if she remembered, was apt to take slight
heed of.

The Miss Bramtons, in short, had been
educated to a standard considerably above
that in which their parents habitually

mixed, and it was little wonder that they
were both somewhat discontented with
their lot. It is hard upon girls who have
been brought up as ladies, to be unable
to find amongst the men of their acquaintance
any whom they can quite regard as
gentlemen, and that was one reason that
made Lucy so fond of travelling about
with her late uncle.

Dick Bramton, although by no means a
refined man, was not so essentially vulgar
as his brother. If he mixed on the turf
with a rough lot, he also associated therewith
men of undeniable polish and culture,
such as the Earl of Ranksborow, to wit.
Then, while travelling with him, Lucy
came across many pleasant people, who
were also wandering, and who, whatever
they might be at home, were unmistakably
well-bred. A pretty girl like Lucy
Bramton was almost sure to attract the
best young men, either on the steamers
or at the table d'hote, to her side ; and she
found their society infinitely more pleasant
than that of those young gentlemen in

ib

business who frequented the villa at
Wimbledon.

It would be absurd to suppose that
Lucy had forgotten that tall, good-looking
dragoon whom she had met at Shepheard's
Hotel. Captain Cuxwold had stood as
far as he could between her and the first
great sorrow of her life. She had been
inexpressibly shocked and grieved at her
uncle's death — an uncle who, let his faults
be whatever they might, had always been
most kind and indulgent to her. Cuxwold,
she knew, had saved her an infinity of
trouble, and she felt very grateful to him,
not only for the trouble he had taken,
but also for the delicate consideration he
had shown in all the arrangements he had
made for her. It was natural, under these
circumstances, that he should be often
present to her thoughts. Moreover, the
war clouds were once more rolling up over
the desert, and whether the Government
liked it or not, whether they cared to save
Khartoum, or whether they did not, it was
evident to all men that the Mahdi had to

be confronted and stemmed. From the
sands of the desert, from the waters of the
Oxus and Zaxartes, there has never been
any difficulty about gathering a horde of
vvarhke adventurers whenever a leader
arose who, dubbing himself prophet, fired
the fanaticism of his followers, and filled
their souls with the lust of plunder. From
time immemorial the bait dangled before
the eyes of the Turcoman has been India;
and again and again has he swept through
the wild Afghan country, and spread desolation
to the banks of the Ganges. To
the Arab, the lure has always been Lower
Egypt ; and when the green banner of the
prophet was first unfurled, it seemed as
if little less than the domination of all
Europe would content the wild horsemen
of the desert.

Little use to say the Mahdi was a mere
fakir, an outcast priest come from the
scum of the people, what you will. He
was a force and a focus for thousands of
the wild hordes of the desert ; and undisciplined
though they might be, these

children of the sandy sea were men of
thews and sinews, reckless of life, and
could be depended upon to follow their
chiefs to the death. Interest bean to
rise high in England when the fact was
grasped that the roar of public indignation
had at last made the Government tardily
decide to rescue the man whom they had
sent to pacify the Soudan, and then apparently
forgotten. There was something
dramatic in the picture of this one man
breasting the full flood of fanaticism ; in
this leader, abandoned by his chiefs, standing
with colossal heroism in the breach
against anarchy ; in this one man dominating,
by sheer ascendancy of will, over the
half-hearted and treacherous population of
a city, and inducing them to stand the
privations of a siege. The attention of
England was centred on the hero of Khartoum,
and the problem now was by what
means could assistance be most speedily
conveyed to him ; and over this point
there was much discussion amongst the
great military chiefs of the kingdom.

That the expedition would have no easy
task before it was perfectly well recognised,
and that the race they were about
to encounter were made of very different
stuff from the Egyptians they so easily
beat at Tel-els Kebir, was also perfectly
well known.

From having been in Egypt, and heard
a great deal of course about the first campaign,
Lucy naturally took a very deep
interest in everything connected with the
country. More especially did she feel
interested as to what share the 24th
Lancers might bear in the forthcoming
expedition.

She had promised Captain Cuxwold at
parting to let him know of her safe arrival
in England. That promise had been cul)'
kept, and she had received in reply a very
pleasant, chatty letter, in which the writer,
while expressing himself intensely sick of
Cairo, wound up by saying, — ■' But there
surely must be work for some of us before
long. The whole world will cry shame
on England if she abandon Gordon at

Khartoum, though how we are to get
to him, I confess I don't see. However,
thank Heaven, that's a point which
our chiefs have to determine ; but it is
not likely that the Arabs will allow us
to promenade the desert without trying
what we're made of.' And then, congratulating
her upon being in England
instead of grilling at Cairo, he concluded
with ' Most sincerely yours, Jack
Cuxwold.'

We are all apt, on the verge of a campaign,
to speculate whether our friends,
relations, or even acquaintances will take
part in it, and therefore it is small wonder
that Lucy Bramton constantly wondered
whether the 24th Lancers would take part
in this expedition, which the papers foretold
was not likely "to attain its end without
some sharp fighting of the tribes of
the desert.

Mr Bramton was sitting in the drawings
yawning over the Times, and, sooth
to say, not a little weary of his new role
of a country gentleman.

It's all very well, Margaret,' he observed,
' but I like Wimbledon better.
There were always lots of people to come
and see us, at Wimbledon, and then I
could always run into the City, and have
a crack with my old friends. No ; I
know, my dear, this is very genteel, but
it's devilish dull'

Nonsense ! You'll be all right when
we get to know people, and when you've
been made a magistrate. You ought to
farm a bit ; it's the proper thing for a
country gentleman to do.'

'Is it ? Then for once, Mrs Bramton,
I decline to play the part of a country
gentleman. Farming means ruin to those
who understand it. What it means to
those who don't, I'm sure I can't guess.
Oh, dear ! I wish lunch was ready ; it's
something to do, at all events.'

Suddenly the door was thrown open,
not by a footman, but by the butler in
person, who in full unctuous tones rolled
out the name of ' The Earl of Ranks-brow.'
The announcement of their

noble neighbour fell like a bombshell
upon the worthy pair. Mrs Bramton at
once began to shake out her skirts, while
as for her husband, he bounced out of
his chair, and advancing to the Earl, who
was making his way up the room, exclaimed,
—

'How d'ye do, my lord? Happy
to make your lordship's acquaintance.
Lovely day, isn't it?'

'How d'ye do, Mrs Bramton?' said
the Earl, as, having shaken hands with
his host, he crossed to address the lady
of the house. ' I got a message from
an acquaintance of mine whom you
were good enough to show your place
to yesterday; and I've taken you at
your word you see, Mr Bramton. I
was passing, and I've come in to beg
some lunch.'

Only too happy, my lord,' rejoined
Bramton, as he made a nervous snatch at
the bell. ' Lunch, Peters, at once,' he
remarked to the butler,, as that functionary
entered the room ; ' and Peters, ahem ! '

and here the Httle man indulged in a
perfect code of telegraphic signals, and
finally grievously tried Lord Ranksborow's
gravity by exclaiming, in a most audible
stage whisper, ' the extra dry, remember,
Peters.'

He evidently means doing me tol-polish,'
thought the Earl, struggling hard
to restrain his laughter.

It's a beautiful place your husband
has bought, Mrs Bramton. Temple Rising
always puts me out of all conceit with
Knightshayes. My place is bigger, but
it's not half so pretty as this ; nor is my
old barrack near so comfortable a house
as yours.'

You know it well, of course, my lord '^. '
said Mrs Bramton.

Known it all my life,' replied the
Earl. ' Poor Molyneux was a great
friend of mine, and, without the slightest
disparagement to you, I own I was very
sorry to lose him as a neighbour. However,
we must all bow to the inevitable ;
and I can only hope I shall be on as good

terms with his successors as I was with
himself.'

Oh ! Lord Ranksborow, Lord Ranks-brow
! Damocles once yours, and it's
little you will trouble your head about
the newcomers at Temple Rising.

At this moment the two Miss Bramtons
entered, and the Earl was most decidedly
astonished.

Two deuced pretty, ladylike girls,'
he muttered to himself. ' Who the deuce
would ever have thought that a couple
of vulgarians like these could have reared
two such thoroughbred-looking chicks as
those ! '

He advanced and shook hands with
the young ladies most cordially, welcomed
them heartily to the county, and congratulated
them upon being the possessors
of the prettiest place in it.

You're laughing at us, Lord Ranks-brow,'
said Miss Bramton, smiling. ' I
fancy we dwindle into insignificance by
the side of Knightshayes.'

That, I trust, you will soon have an

opportunity of judging for yourself. As
I was telling Mr Bramton just now, my
place may be bigger, but yours has it
altogether in point of beauty.'

All through luncheon the Earl won
golden opinions on all sides. He talked,
perhaps, chiefly to Miss Matilda, but he
was far too experienced a man of the
world not to, as far as possible, make
the conversation general. Mrs Bramton,
however, could be persuaded to take but
little part in it. She was somewhat
awestruck by her guest, and still more
was she afraid of committing herself and
being pounced upon by her eldest daughter.
Miss Matilda snubbed her mother
rather sharply at times for the solecisms
she was wont to commit. The meal
over, the Earl wished the ladies goodbye,
and said airily, —

ril just have a weed in your sanctum,
Bramton, before I start.'

Certainly, my lord, certainly,' was the
reply, and that gentleman led the way
to his own room at once.

VOL. I. I

Once seated there, and his cigar comfortably
alight, Lord Ranksborow proceeded
at once to business.

Your brother was an old friend of
mine,' he said ; ' and I hear he has left
you all his horses ? '

'Well, in a way, so to speak,' replied
John Bramton.

You're not much of a racing man, I
think,' continued the Earl, ' or else I must
have heard of you before. If it's a fair
question, what do you think of doing
with them ? Will they be for sale ? '

Damocles, Damocles,' muttered Mr
Bramton to himself; 'dash my wig, if
he ain't after Damocles ! Lucy has got
some gumption in her ; that horse is
worth a lot of money. I know he's worth
twelve hundred pounds, because I refused
that sum for him yesterday.'

I'm sure I don't know, my lord. I
don't know much about such things myself.
I don't suppose poor Dick's nags
are of much account.'

The old fox,' thought the Earl, ' is

not quite such an innocent as Skinner
pronounced him. Yesterday told him that
one of them, at all events, was worth
money.'

Ah, well, if they are to come to the
hammer, I should like to know. There's
one or two of them I should like to have.
Indeed, if you think of selling them by
private contract, shall be very glad to
have the refusal of them.'

Well, my lord, I haven't at all made
up my mind as yet.'

You've a young one called Damocles,'
continued the peer, as he flipped the ash
off his cigar. * Now, I can give you a
good round sum for him, if you like to
part with him. Now, I'm not going to
beat about the bush, or have any shilly-shally
about it — that's all very well
amongst horse-copers, but it's not the
thing between gentlemen. Now, once
for all, Bramton, I've taken a fancy to
Damocles. Will fifteen hundred pounds
buy him ? If not, there's no more to
be said.'

Fifteen hundred ? That's a deal of
money, to say nothing of the opportunity
of obliging your lordship. Excuse me
for one moment, I'll just go and consult
that is to say, I'll just go and look
at some papers. I should just like to
mention it. Poor Dick's last will and
testament, you know.'

Now, what in Heaven's name does
he mean by all that farrago ? He surely
can't mean to consult Mrs Bramton about
selling a horse. I wonder if he'll bite ?
By Jove ! what a coup if he does.'

A few minutes and Mr Bramton re-enters
the room.

I'm very sorry, my lord, awfully sorry,'
he exclaimed, ' but I can't give you any
decided answer to-day ! I won't say no,
but I can't say yes.'

All right,' said the Earl, ' no harm
done. Send me a line over to Knio^ht-
shades when you've made up your mind.
Good-bye ; very glad to have made your
acquaintance,' and with these words the
Earl took his departure.

There now,' said Mr Bramton, * Lucy
has done it. Fifteen hundred for a horse
the friendship of an earl — a first-class
introduction to all the county, and dam'me
if the girl hasn't said no to it'

JOHN BRAMTON's eyes ARE OPENED.

No man could be more profoundly ignorant
of racing matters than Mr Bramton.
He would as soon have thought of
reading Horace in the original as the
sporting intelligence in the newspapers,
and would have understood as much about
the one as the other ; but John Bramton's
trading instincts were much too quick not
to see that Damocles was a very valuable
colt. What the horse might be worth he
had no conception, but he had not been
buying and selling all his life not to feel
perfectly sure that neither Mr Skinner
nor Lord Ranksborow had bid him full
value. About the declining of Mr

Skinner's offer, he had no doubt but that
Lucy had persuaded him to do rightly ;
but the Earl's was quite another matter.
He felt pretty sure that the fifteen
hundred was considerably less than the
colt ought to fetch ; but then there was
the contingency. Fifteen hundred pounds
and the friendship of the Ranksborow
family ! Surely it was worth while to let
the Earl have a bargain, and by that
means arrive at intimacy with him and
his. Mr Bramton ought to have known
better than to believe that laying a man
under an obligation can be relied on to
entail his gratitude and friendship. He
had been angry and dumb foundered at
Lucy's refusal to at once conclude the sale
of Damocles, but there was no time to
argue the matter out then, as the Earl was
awaiting his decision. There was nothing
for it but to temporise, so having briefly
informed his daughter that she was a
headstrong little fool, he rushed back to
his own room, and gave Lord Ranks-brow
the undecided answer we know of.

Lucy was destined to have a somewhat
uncomfortable time of it for the next
two days. Her whole family were up in
arms against her. In the eyes of her
mother and sister, Lord Ranksborow's
offer had been princely ; and then it was
so unkind, so ill-tempered of her, to
throw obstacles in the way of their entering
county society. Such an opening
as this might never occur again ; and,
when the Earl was so anxious to be
friendly, it was so ungracious not to part
with a horse she had never seen and
could not possibly want.

This Damocles — such a name to give
a horse ! ' cries Miss Matilda — ' is of no
use except for racing purposes ; and
though ladies go racing, yet nobody ever
heard of their owning racehorses ! '

An observation which once more endorses
the correctness of Mr Billow's
famous line, ' That they didn't know
everything down in Judge.'

But Lucy was obstinate. She said
first of all it was by no means clear that

they had a right to dispose of these horses
until the engagements they were entered
for were over ; but, supposing that she
had the legal rio^ht, her uncle had left
her everything, had been very kind to
her all his lifetime, and she thought she
owed it to his memory to carry out his last
wishes as far as she could. She reminded
them all that his dying message to her
had been to ' take care of Damocles ; '
then again she argued, —

Remember what we've heard about
the Earl of Ranksborow since we've been
here. We know very well that, though
he is a nobleman with a large estate, he
is a notoriously hard-up man. Nobody
suggests for one moment that he is
narrow or illiberal in his dealings ; it is
simply that he has a great deal to keep
up, and barely the money to do it with.
Is it likely, father, that he could afford
to make you a fair bid for a horse ? '

As a business man, Lucy, I tell you
fairly I think you're probably right ; but
this horse is nothing to you, and just

think what it means to us all. Why, it'll
lead to you and Matilda making the
acquaintance of all the surrounding nobility
and gentry.'

But Lucy stuck to her guns, and positively
refused to give her consent to the
acceptance of Lord Ranksborow's offer,
upon which her father angrily reminded
her that she was a minor, and that, asher
trustee, he should act as he thought
best for her, and take the earliest opportunity
of disposing of such a very ticklish
property as a stud of racehorses.

How far Mr Bramton would have proceeded
to carry out his threat is problematical,
but the second day brought help
to Lucy from a very unexpected quarter.
Mr Bramton was proudly contemplating
his domain from the terrace outside the
drawing-room window, when a footman
came to him and said, —

A gentleman to see you, sir, on business.
Hasn't got a card, sir, but gives
the name of Stubber.'

Stubber, Stubber,' said Mr Bramton

meditatively ; ' never heard the name in
my Hfe. What have you done with him,
William?'

Shown him into your private room,
sin'

Quite right,' said Mr Bramton. ' Now
I wonder what this fellow can want ? '
and so saying, he trotted off to discover.

Stubber was a trainer of the old school.
A slight, wiry, keen-eyed man of fifty
or thereabouts, attired in a broad-skirted,
pepper-and-salt coat, drab breeches and
gaiters. He rose from his chair as Mr
Bramton entered the room, and said, —

Morning, sir ; I'd have been down
to pay my respects before, only I didn't
know who the horses belonged to. I'm
told Mr Richard has left the whole string
to you 1 '

Another of them, by gum ! He's
come about Damocles,' muttered John
Bramton to himself. ' I wonder whether
he wants to buy him ? Not likely I'm
going to part with that valuable animal
to a fellow like him when there's an earl

wanting to buy him. Well, yes,' he
replied at length, ' that's about the size

of it;

Well, sir, I always gave your poor
brother every satisfaction, and, though I
ses it myself, I know my business, and
can pitch 'em out as fit as any man in
Norland.'

Quite so, my good man,' replied John
Bramton, * though what you propose to
pitch out, and what your business maybe,
I'm blessed if I've the slightest idea.'

'Why, sir, I'm poor Mr Richard's
trainer. I've come down to talk to you
about them bosses ; and I do hope you'll
leave em with me.'

'Ah!' rejoined Mr Bramton, with a
song-drawn breath of a man who suddenly
makes a startling discovery, ' you're the
keeper of Damocles ? I mean, that you've
charge of that valuable animal. Keeper,
no ; that's what they say of the people
in charge of the wild beasts in the Zoological
Gardens. You're the — what was it
you called yourself ? '

Trainer, sir. I've trained for Mr
Richard for the last eight years ; and as
for Damocles, he's a canker, he is. I
don't think I ever had such a col in my
charge before.'

Ah ! ' said Mr Bramton patronising,
and speaking as if he had been in the
habit of winning the Derby every four
or five years for some time past, ' I'm
told he's a nice 'horse. Why, I was bid
fifteen hundred pounds for him the beginning
of the week.'

Fifteen hundred pounds ! ' ejaculated
the trainer, In tones of the most profound
contempt.

Just so, just so,' continued Mr Brandon.
' I thought it wasn't enough. Now,
Mr Stubber, what do you consider the
value of a " clinker ? " '

Damocles Is well worth five thousand
pounds this very minute, and will be well
worth ten before a fortnight Is over our
heads.'

John Bramton was thunderstruck. He
had been quite prepared to urge his

daughter to sacrifice a little money with
a view to getting the entrance into the
county society they wished. He would
have said, and with some reason, to Lucy,
'You're a rich young woman, and it is
well worth your while to sacrifice two
or three hundred pounds in order to gain
a good social position But he had made
his own money much too hardly to think
of throwing away thousands for any such
shadowy idea as that. No man more
likely to have said, ' The money will stick
to you, my girl, and society perhaps
won't.'

'Why do you say, Mr Stubber,' he said,
at length, ' that this horse will be worth
so much more in a fortnight ? '

'Well, sir,' replied the trainer, 'there
is no certainty in racing, but I'm as confident
as a man can be about anything
connected with it, that Damocles will win
the New Stakes at Ascot the week after
next, and, I think, easily too. If he does,
I can only say, in my opinion, considering
how heavily he is engaged, he'll be worth

double the money he is now. Whatever
else you may sell, sir, I do hope you won't
sell him, and I further venture to hope
you'll leave him in my charge. Be guided
by me, sir ; don't part with him, at all
events till after Ascot ; and if you're not
satisfied with the way he runs, then say
Sam Stubber is an old fool, and isn't fit to
look after a horse.'

Well, Mr Stubber,' said Bramton, * I
promise you, at all events, the horses
shall be left with you till after Ascot,
and by that time I shall probably have
made up my mind what to do about
them.'

Thanked, sir. Maybe you'll comedown
and look at the horses ? I should
like you to see Damocles have his wind
up before Ascot.'

Thank you,' said Mr Bramton. ' I
don't know much about such things myself
Don't quite understand how you
wind a horse up either, but I suppose,
like clocks, it's a mistake to overdo it'

The trainer smiled as he replied, —

Too bad of you, Mr Bramton, to
gammon me in this way, and pretend
you know nothing about racing. That's
just where it is, many a good stake is
thrown away by over-winding.'

It strikes me I'm getting on in this
new line of business,' thought Mr Bramton.
No,' he said, ' Stubber, I don't understand
it, and I shall leave you to manage matters
for yourself, at all events till after Ascot.'

'Very well, sir,' replied the trainer. * If
you do change your mind, there's my
address, and I can give you a comfortable
bedroom, and a decent dinner ; but now
I will say good-bye. I suppose you would
like the result of the New Stakes telegraphed
? '

*Yes, I think so, Stubber. I'm not
much of a race-goer myself. Good-bye.'

Mr Bramton sat for some time lost in
thought after the trainer had departed.
It was quite obvious to him that his
noble friend the Earl of Ranksborow
had endeavoured to drive an uncommonly
good bargain for himself, if from no

other point of view than that of buying
a thing to-day to sell for two or three
times the sum tomorrow. Then it suddenly
flashed across him that Mr Skinner
was staying at Knightshayes. Of course
they were in collusion. What a fool
he had been ; they had striven to buy
Damocles for about a fourth of his value.
John Bramton might know nothing about
racing, but his business instincts were
very wide avv^ake to buying cheap and
selling dear, and that the Earl and his
confederate saw their way into that he
made no doubt.

'Well,' he muttered to himself, 'folks
who have tried to best John Bramton
have generally got the worst of it. His
lordship has tried to *'do" me, and, in
my way, I'll just see if I can't "do" his
lordship. He wants something out of
me ; I want something out of him. A
regular game at cribbage between us ;
but his lordship will find that I can layout
for my crib quite as cleverly as he
can,' and Mr Bramton quite chuckled at

VOL. I. K

the game he was about to play with
Lord Ranksborow.'

The first thing he did was to indite a
diplomatic letter to the Earl, which, it
was rather fortunate for him, did not fall
under the eyes of his wife or daughters.
He was dreadfully given, on these occasions,
to drop into the idioms of his own
business, and though somewhat suspicious
of what a shrewd correspondent he was
dealing with, the peer could not but
laugh at some of the expressions in the
letter.

'I'm sorry I cannot yet give your lordship
a definite answer about your offer
for Damocles, but the fact I have got to
consider is whether the goods, that is
horses, will not sell better wholesale than
by dropping into the retail business. In
the event of the latter, your lordship may
depend upon having the very first offer
of the colt you are anxious to secure.'

Lord Ranksborow laughed when he
got this letter, but he was not in the
least deceived by it. He was quite as

astute a man In his own way as the
master of Temple Rising.

Skinner, my friend,' he muttered, ' you
made a great mistake when you thought
this man was a fooL He's as sharp as a
needle ; he has already found out that
these horses are valuable, how valuable
he don't know, but he is not going to
sell them until he does. That he is very
anxious to make my acquaintance, and
be asked, with his wife and daughters, to
Knightshayes is equally clear. Well, weare
not in the habit of selling our hospitality,
and that's a very ugly name to
give the transaction, but for all that, Mr
Bramton, my taking you up depends
entirely about what arrangement you
make about Damocles. I can't pay more
for the colt than I have already bid,
that's 'pos." I wonder if it will be possible
to come to some other arrangement
about it. Ha ! that would do, if he
would simply keep him, and let me have
the management of him. He's not a
man to stand on much delicacy with.

I've no doubt, to use his own vernacular,
he has done a good deal of "You push
my shillings, and I'll cry up your
calicoes." I must make him understand
that my taking him up must be a give-and-take
arrangement. The only thing
is, an understandings must be come to
as quickly as possible, or else, tempted
by what he considers a rattling good
offer, he'll be selling the colt. Hang it!
Skinner was right. I shall have to play
my trump card after all, and get the
Countess to call. I thought I could have
managed it alone, but the little dry-goods
man is too cunning for me. He means
that he and his are to have their legs
under my mahogany, before he does
what I wish. Yes, that must be my
next move. I must tell the Countess
to call.'

THE Soudan's on the boil.

It is the end of the Ascot week, and a
depression seems to have fallen over
that lively community yclept the Heliotrope.
They don't say much, they are
mostly too good form not to take their
punishment mutely, but there are wan
and weary faces amongst them, that
show traces of an unsuccessful week's
battling with the bookmakers. The
morrow is a day of rest, — little rest
indeed to these unfortunates who know
that their liabilities have to be adjusted
on the Monday.

Sitting in one corner of the smoking-room,
holding anxious confabulation on

that constantly-recurring- problem, ways
and means, were Lord Dartree and his
equally impecunious friend and mentor,
Jim Anson. Suddenly their attention was
attracted by a tall, dreamy-looking man,
who lounged into the Temple of Nicotine
with a bored, languid air, and looked
wearily around for somebody on whom to
inflict his weariness.

Alec Flood ! by all that's unfathomable
! ' exclaimed Anson. ' Come here.
Alec, and tell us all about your adventures
; how you escaped being bowstring
by a pasha, knotted by a Boyard, eaten
by a tiger, or knife by an Italian.'

How are you two fellows ? ' replied
Flood, as he shook hands with the twain.
That last shot of yours, Jim, was a shave
nearer than your guesses generally are,
for I happened to be in Cairo at the
time of that gambling-house row in which
Dick Bramton was killed.'

The deuce you were ! ' exclaimed
Anson.

Yes ; your brother Jack and myself,

Dart, chanced to be present when the row
took place. What took us to that confounded
den, I don't know.'

" Satan finds some mischief still for
idle hands to do," ' quoted Dartree demurely.


Stuff and nonsense, Dart ! ' exclaimed
Jim Anson. ' Satan never bothers himself
about you and Jack. He knows he
can rely upon your finding that for yourselves.'


You fellows knew Bramton, I daresay
? I didn't, but Jack did, as soon ashe
made out who he was.'

Rather,' said Dartree ; ' considering he
owned Damocles, the first favourite for
the Derby, and was always a prominent
figure at Newmarket, etc., we all knew
him more or less.'

Was It a big fight ? ' inquired Anson.

No ; one of those short, sharp scuffles
characteristic of a gaming-house row.
This poor fellow was knife before we
could get to him. Neither of us saw who
struck the blow.'

And how's Jack ? ' inquired Dartree.

Oh ! flourishing. Uncommon sick of
Cairo, which he pronounces a hole. Says
the Sphinx and the Pyramids are all very
well, once in a way, but they pall on repetition.
However, he and some of the
other fellows out there think they're going
to fight something or somebody somewhere,
and are looking forward to it.
Awfully bored they must be, you know,
when they are looking forward to a campaign
as diversion. You fellows have
been at Ascot, I suppose ? '

Yes,' replied Jim Anson ; ' and, by
Jove ! don't we wish we hadn't. I never
had such a week. Except when Damocles
romped in for the New Stakes, I'm
blessed if I turned a single trick ; and he
was only a six to four chance, so there
wasn't much money to be made out of
that.'

There, that'll do, Jim ; don't bore
Flood by enumerating all the losers we
backed at Ascot. It's sickening to look
back upon. So Jack is pretty fit, is

he ? When does he talk of coming
home ? '

He doesn't see his way to it at all,'
rejoined Flood. ^ There's trouble brewing
up there in the Soudan.'

Yes ; but that's nothing to us,' replied
Lord Dartree. ' Government have declared
that they are not going to interfere
in the Soudan.'

Yes, I know,' rejoined Flood. ' But
when you rule an empire upon which the
sun never sets, it's all very well to say you
won't interfere with this, and you won't interfere
with that ; you can't help yourself.
Hicks' expedition to relieve El-Obeid, remember,
terminated in the annihilation of
his whole force. Baker's attempt to relieve
Sinkat and Tokay met a precisely
similar fate. Now the result of these two
disasters is this— an enormous quantity of
rifles and several Krupp guns and
ammunition have fallen into the hands of
the Arabs. Naturally a most courageous
race, they have now got their tails up,
and there's no holding them. They talk

about sweeping the infidels from the
face of the earth, and carrying fire
and sword to Cairo and the gates of
Tambour. We may say that we won't
interfere in the Soudan, but it's very probable
that the Soudanese weill interfere
with us.'

By Jove!' said Anson, 'that's a view
of the case that has never struck our
politicians.'

No ; we are always preaching non-intervention,
and then wind up by annexing
a province two or three sizes bigger
than the United Kingdom. We don't
want it ; but circumstances compel us to
take it. We don't want the Soudan, nor
does any one else, I should think, but our
philanthropic tendencies have led us to
interfere with their favourite pastime of
slave hunting, while the Egyptian officials,
on the other hand, in their anxiety to
enrich themselves, have ground the very
souls out of the wretched villagers. No ;
the Soudan is on the boil, and, to continue
the metaphor, sooner or later, it

will devolve upon us to take the kettle
off;

Well, you've been out there,' said Lord
Dartree, ' have heard what people say,
and therefore ought to know rather more
about it than we do ; but nobody at home
here thinks we are going to interfere in
that embroiling

suppose not,' rejoined Flood ; ' but
when the Arabs have got within a couple
of hundred miles or so of Cairo, Her
Majesty's Government will awake to the
situation, and exclaim, " Halloa ! this sort
of thing won't do, you know"*

Well, you can't be said to take a cheerful
view of things,' said Anson.

Not at all. I'm only taking a commonsense
one. Look at the blunder Government
has made about the evacuation of
the Soudan, loudly proclaiming their intention.
When one wants to run away,
one does it as quietly as possible. You
don't loudly announce that you're going
to do it.'

Yes,' said Dartree, ' to retreat silently

is, I believe, an axiom in military tactics.'


Ah ! and there is another axiom in the
history of both schoolboys and nations ;
the boy who won't fight is always kicked.
Other countries are always under the impression
John Bull won't fight, but too
late they discover he won't be kicked.
Origin this of half our wars.'

Pity you're not in the House, Flood,'
remarked Anson ; * you would make yourself
so jolly unpopular, always carping at
the Government arrangements.'

Never mind,' replied the accused,
laughing. ' I'm never likely to be there,
and to play the critic is an easy role.
However, we've talked enough of the
East, I think. Tell me a little what you
fellows have been doing in the West.'

Nothing,' rejoined Lord Dartree, ' that
is, speaking personally, and doing it, too,
with our usual ability ; haven't we, Jim } '

Yes,' said Anson ; ' but Dart has
done something more, than that. He
has evinced great diplomatic talent. His

father, as you know, is always at him
to go in for Parliament. Well, it occurred
to Dart this winter that he would
rather break his neck than his voice, and
that the society on a racecourse was more
select than the society at St Stephen's,
so he took to steeplechasing, and, I assure
you, made a very creditable debut between
flags, carrying off two local steeplechases.'
Yes,' chimed in Lord Dartree, * and
the best of the joke is this, the governor
is so delighted at my taking up one of
the favourite hobbies of his youth, that
he has ceased to bore me any more
about Parliament.'

Of course he has,' remarked Flood ;
he sees you've taken up with a higher
vocation.'

By the way,' said Anson, * you had no
idea, when you saw Dick Bramton killed
at Cairo, what a sensation his death was
going to make in the turf world.'

How is that .^ ' inquired Flood.

Well, for a long time we couldn't
make out what was to become of his

horses. At last it oozed out he had left
them all to his brother — a chap who don't
know a horse from a cow. The obvious
inference was that he would sell them,
but he somehow discovered that racehorses
are valuable property, and he is
so afraid of being '' done " that he can't
make up his mind what to do. He made
his money in trade of some sort, and he
is terribly afraid of not getting full value
for the stud.'

Racing is not much in my way,'
rejoined Flood, ' but one of Bramton's
horses should be at all events worth
money. It isn't running in his name,
but that's nothing. I happened to see
in the paper the other morning that
Damocles won the New Stakes at Ascot.
It's a very odd thing, but Dick Bramton's
dying words were a message to his niece
to ** take care of Damocles." '

The ruling passion,' muttered Dartree.
My father, you know, was rather chummy
with Dick Bramton, and I know from him
that the dead man thought a lot of that

colt. Curious, moreover, the present man
has just bought a place in our part of the
country.'

'Ah! I fancy I heard Jack say something
about it. Now I'm off for a rubber,'
and, with a nod to his companions, Flood
strolled off to the guardroom.

By this time there was a growing feeling
in England that, whatever the Government
might assert, their interference in the
Soudan was not only imperative, but was
likely to cost considerable expenditure of
life and money. The disasters of Hicks
and Baker had been somewhat belittled
on account of the troops they were leading.
These able and capable leaders, it
was urged, could do nothing with the
stuff they commanded.' We had still
hardly grasped the fact that we had to
confront an enemy not only of superb
fighting capacity, but who, in his own
way, showed great powers of strategy.
Like most semi-civilised foes, his great
idea was an ambuscade, and in setting

and luring his opponent into his trap he
showed marvellous astuteness. It was all
very well to say that well-tried chiefs
like Hicks and Baker, more especially
the latter, whose superb handling of the
Turkish rearguard In the retreat from the
Balkans Is worthy to rank with Ney's
similar heroic covering of the Grand
Armee's retirement from Moscow, could
do nothing with battalions whose nervous
affections of the legs impelled them to
take an opposite course to that which
their commanders would fain lead them.
But the fierceness of the foe we were
soon destined to comprehend.

The annihilation of Baker's expedition,
and the literally painful cowardice displayed
by the Egyptian troops upon that
occasion, so emboldened Osman Dogma
and his Arabs that they actually now
threatened Suakim ; and the British Government
could no longer dlso^ulse from
themselves that, If the way to India by
the Suez Canal and Red Sea was to be
saved, it was high time that, like it or

not, they should Intervene. Sir Gerald
Graham, at the head of some six thousand
British troops, was selected to chastise
Osman Digma and his following.
This was done, and done effectually ; but
the desperate resistance, and the reckless
charges of the Arabs, fully explained the
crushing defeats of inferior troops. How
the Arabs would fight we learnt at 
and Tamar. At the former, indeed,
a boy of twelve dauntlessly, knife in hand,
attacked two of our soldiers, paying the
penalty with his life ; while at the latter,
a square composed of some of our best
troops was momentarily broken, and the
formation not recovered till many of the
enemy had got inside, where they * fighting
fell.' But it speedily became evident
that, able as was his lieutenant, Osman
Digma the slave-dealer, with whose occupation
we had interfered, the focus of the
rebellion was with the Mahdi himself, and
gravitation towards Khartoum. About
the same time that Sir Gerald Graham
was chastising the tribes round Suakim,
VOL. I. L

Gordon made a sortie from the former
place, the result of which was simply to
show that the Egyptian troops could not
be brought to face the Arabs ; two thousand
of them, armed with Religions,
being upon this occasion scattered and
put to flight by some sixty wild horsemen
of the desert, which made it pretty
clear to Gordon, to whom had been confided
the task of withdrawing the Egyptian
garrisons from the Soudan, that
though it might have been possible once,
it was now too late, and without the aid
of the British, those Egyptian troops
would never return to their homes in
Egypt proper. Still the Government is
very determined not to intervene in the
Soudan, forgetting that it has already
done so, and that, having undertaken to
prevent anarchy in Egypt, it was difficult
to lay down hard and fast rules, —
that you could no more say, ' I will be
responsible for order in this part of
Egypt, but not in that,' than a doctor
could say, ' I will have no fever in this

part of my patient's body, but will take
no heed to the rest.'

However, with the suppression of
Osman Digma, operations in the Soudan
came to a conclusion for the present, the
English Government fondly hoping that
they were done with that question. True,
it was urged that after the battle of Tamar
there was nothing to stop Stewart's
cavalry riding into Berber, but it was
argued that nothing could come of such
an advance ; that the road from Suakim to
Berber would be no safer after the cavalry
had passed than it was at present, and, indeed,
except the moral effect, it is hard
to see what result could have come of it ;
but then, in dealing with Eastern nations,
moral effect is everything, and if ever
there were people in this world who
ought to be aware of that, it is ourselves.
Again and ai^fain have we owed our existence
in India to our military prestige ;
and had the matter been left in the hands
of the military chiefs, it is probable that
Berber would have been occupied ; and

who shall say what moral support would
have been afforded Gordon at Khartoum
by the intelligence that the British horse
were in Berber ? But no, the British
Government were excessively anxious to
wash their hands of this question of the
Soudan, but found that, once having
tarred its fingers, it was a matter of no
little difficulty to get rid of it. As it is,
the affair does not redound much to our
credit, as the problem has been elucidated
by the massacre of all the Egyptian garrisons,
and the shameful sacrifice of the
man we sent out to withdraw them.

/

THE Britons MAKE THEIR DEBUT.

Not very far from Temple Rising was
Roseneath, the residence of Mr and Mrs
Berriman. Mr Berriman was a man who
somewhat startled the inhabitants of that
neighbourhood by his ultra-democratic
opinions. It was a strongly Conservative
district, and when he first came amongst
them there had been some feeling against
the master of Roseneath on account of
his very Liberal views ; but when it was
discovered that he was a thorough brood
sportsman, a staunch preserver of both
pheasants and foxes, and that his Radical
opinions were chiefly theoretical, he
speedily became a popular man in the

county. As for Mrs Berriman, she was
a jolly, good-tempered woman, who delighted
in society, and was very catholic
regarding it. There was nothing exclusive
about Mrs Berriman ; she knew
everybody, and dispensed her hospitalities
with a free hand. Her manner was just
as frank and off-hand to the Earl of
Ranksborow as it was to the village
apothecary. That Mrs Berriman should
call upon the newcomers at Temple
Rising, was as natural as that Mrs Ber-roman
should give a garden-party. Mrs
Berriman's parties were always popular.
True some of the more exclusive people
of the neighbourhood — the very finest
porcelain of the community — turned up
their noses at the inferior earthenware
they encountered on such occasions, but
having remarked that 'poor Mrs Ferryman's
parties were really getting so very
mixed, they didn't know what to say about
going,' they went.

The Bramtons looked forward to this
entertainment not a little. It was a

stepping-stone to making the acquaintance
of the neighbourhood. John Bramton and
his wife were naturally both sociable and
hospitable people, and would be only
too happy to dispense cakes and ale to
their neighbours, if only those neighbours
would let them.

Now a thing had come to pass, the
last two or three weeks, at which Mr
Bramton hardly knew whether to be
pleased or annoyed. When this much-talked-of
colt Damocles cantered in for the
New Stakes at Ascot, there was of course
much talk about whom he belonged to.
He had run in the name of the trainer,
but it was pretty generally understood that
Stubber was not his real owner, and it
then transpired that the horse was the
property of Mr Bramton. This, as we
know, was not exactly the case, but it
seemed so natural that the dead man
should have left his property to his
brother, that nobody dreamt of questioning
the statement. Mr Stubber himself
was quite under that impression, and saw

no object In making a secret of it ; equally
are Mr Skinner and the Earl of Ranks-brow
under that belief, so it is very
little wonder that Mr Bramton is regarded
as the owner of Damocles.

^ Property of a retired linen-draper,
I'm told,' ejaculated young Pontifex of
the — th Dragoon Guards, as he joined
the cras: to which he was affiliated for
luncheon.

He had not backed the winner, and
his own father had been a cheesemonger,
whereas Mr Bramton had, at all events,
been a wholesale dealer in such goods
as he traded in.

Two or three of the sporting farmers,
and some of the few of the gentlemen
around, when they met Mr Bramton, had
congratulated him upon the triumph of his
horse at Ascot, some of them adding in a
jocular way that they supposed next year
the bells would be ringing at Temple
Rising, an ox would be roasted whole,
and a hogshead of home-brewed broached,
in honour of the victory of Damocles at

Epsom. Now Mr Bramton took all this
very awkwardly. Guided by the lights
of his whole life, he felt that to be the
possessor of a racehorse boded his destruction
; that men would stand aloof
from him ; and, though he didn't quite
understand how, yet that there was a
great expenditure of money connected with
the ownership of this sort of property.
That was his theory, but his shrewd
common-sense showed him the reverse
was the case. He could not but see that
his sporting neighbours looked upon it
as quite a feather in his cap to be the
owner of such a ^ flyer' as Damocles.
Mr Stubber, in a letter which he had received
from him, congratulated him upon
having won fifteen hundred pounds in
stakes, on his horse having distinctly
established himself as a first-class two-year-old,
and again asseverating that the
value he had placed upon him a fortnight
ago was not a penny too much,
and imploring him not to be tempted to
sell.

'If, sir,' continued Mr Stubber, 'you
will allow me to advise, I would suggest,
if you do not want to continue racing,
your putting up the stud for sale during
the July Week, with the exception of
Damocles and old Whitechapel, whom I
want to lead him in his work.' (' Now I
wonder what he means by that ? ' muttered
Mr Bramton to himself, as he perused
the letter.) 'The young one is as sound
as a bell, and, I assure you, bids fair to
be a perfect gold mine to you.'

Now Mr Bramton could quite understand
all this. It was very pleasant to
learn that his property was improving in
value — or rather his daughter's — to learn
that they had won a stake worth fifteen
hundred pounds ; and then he thought it
was very odd that it hadn't been sent to
him, and remarked to himself that if that
was the way Royalty did business, he
could only remark that it was somewhat
lax ; then he wondered whether the Queen
or the Chancellor of the Exchequer was
the proper person to write to on the subject,

and finally concluded that he had
better take council with the Earl of
Ranksborow.

Between this nobleman and Mr Brandon
there had been much finessinof. The
Countess had called, and, loyal to her husband's
instructions, had skilfully dangled
the bait of a dinner at Knightshayes
before the eyes of the family ; but she had
not named the day. On the other hand,
Mr Bramton had been equally indefinite
on the subject of Damocles. He did not
altogether decline the Earl's offer, but then
he most distinctly did not accept it. The
nobleman did not like to stir much in
the matter. He had trot to the length
of his tether, and knew he was offering
nothing like the value of the horse. He
was afraid that Bramton already suspected
as much, and to press the offer would
only confirm those suspicions. But time
went on. As Artemis Ward remarks,
It's a way time has.' Damocles won the
New Stakes, and then Lord Ranksborow
recognised that to purchase him was out

of his power. His sole hope now was to
get the control of the horse. That, he
thought, should not be very difficult. Mr
Bramton, knowing nothing about racing,
would probably feel flattered and grateful
to a man like himself for taking the
management of his ' crack ' off his hands.
Then, again, he knew the Temple Rising
people set a high value on the friendship
of Knightshayes, so that the Earl announced
to his Countess that dinner must
become a reality, and that as soon as,
with regard to due notice being given,
could be managed. Having failed to buy
the colt himself, the next thing was to
persuade John Bramton on no account to
part with it.

We must do it, Louisa. I have too
much depending on Damocles winning
next year, to throw away any chance
conducive to it. It won't bore you very
much. As for the Miss Bramtons, they
are pleasant, ladylike girls enough, and
though the father and the mother are
atrociously vulgar, yet they're so naive

with it, that it becomes more amusing
than offensive.'

Oh ! I shan't mind it,' laughed her
ladyship. ' The only one trouble about
it is their charming imwetd is somewhat
provocative of laughter, and the Miss
Bramtons, bear in mind, are jealously
sensitive about their parents' mistakes.'

You may quite rely upon me upon
that point,' rejoined the Earl, 'though
they try one rather high at times.'

That's settled, then,' rejoined the
Countess. ' I'll write at once, and ask
them to dine here Friday week. I shall
meet them, most likely, at the Berries'.
All the neighbourhood will be there tomorrow,
I suppose ? '

Except myself,' replied the Earl.
However, Berriman does the thing welland
all that can be made of a garden-party
will be done.'

The Temple Rising people were very
pleased with their ddbttt at Roseneath.
Good-natured Mrs Berriman never did
things by halves, and she introduced the

Bramtons in all directions. Mankind is
prone to novelty, and the girls being
pretty and attractive, soon drew several
admirers to their side ; amongst these was
Sir Kenneth Landsman.

Sir Kenneth was a man about forty,
who having pretty well dissipated the
small inheritance with which he began
life, was now seeking to repair his fortunes
by a wealthy marriage. He had
already heard of the Bramtons, and no
sooner did he set his eyes on the girls
than he thought his opportunity was
come. He was a proud, conceited man,
with an exaggerated idea of his own importance.
He had never distinguished
himself in any way, and really carried
very little weight in his own county or
anywhere else. The baronetcy was an
old one, and had he felt free to wed
according to the dictates of his nature.
Sir Kenneth would have aspired to
alliance with the peerage. As it was, he
must marry money, and he considered
that the transforming of Miss Bramton

into Lady Sandiman was an honour quite
sufficient to turn the head of either girl.
A tradesman, as he argued superciliously,
who could afford to buy Temple Rising
must be rich. The girls really were very
pretty, and inquiry told him there was
no son. Yes, it would do very well ; old
Bramton would doubtless be delighted to
give his daughters handsome dots if they
married to his satisfaction, and it wasn't
likely they could hope to be anything
higher than Lady Sandiman. The idea
of a rebuff never even entered Sir Kenneth's
head. There was only one difficulty,
which he confidentially told Mrs
Berriman.

I can't see any myself,' returned his
hostess bluntly, with all a good-natured
woman's wish to forward a suitable marriage.
' You're just the age, Sir Kenneth,
that a man ought to settle down. Either
of those girls would bring you a good
lump of money, and do you credit asa
wife.'

My dear Mrs Berriman, you don't

quite understand me,' said the fastidious
baronet ; ' the trouble is, I can't make up
my mind which I admire most'

Upon my word,' rejoined his hostess,
I don't think that need trouble you this
afternoon. You can't possibly expect to
make such rapid progress as to render any
decision on that point necessary to-day.'

I don't know,' rejoined Sir Kenneth
languidly. * Eligible men with a position
to offer are soon snapped up in these
times.'

Pooh ! Sir Kenneth,' replied Mrs
Berriman, * don't you talk about position,
and all that sort of thing, to democrats
like us. Don't you know that my husband
is an advanced Radical, who is all
for doing away with titles and such like
frivolities.'

'Just so,' replied the imperturbable
baronet. ' Government will make him a
baronet some day, and then you'll see
how he'll change his opinions.'

Mrs Berriman shook her fan merrily at
him as she replied, —

You'd better go and have a good
think, and, when you've made up your
mind, commence your courtship. I have
introduced you, so that everything lies
at your own discretion.'

'Well, Mrs B.,' said John Bramton, in
an undertone, ' how are you getting on
with the aristocracy ? A more affable set
of gents I never saw in my life ; but they
seem to think a deal more of me as the
owner of Damocles than as the owner
of Temple Rising. I'll tell you what,
my dear, it's getting awkward. On the
strength of that blessed horse, they will
have it that I'm a sportsman ; one of the
right sort they say. Well, I hope so ; but
I don't feel very sure about keeping it up.
What do you think, I have promised to
subscribe to the hounds.'

Oh ! John, what made you do that ?
You know you were never out hunting
in your life.'

No ; but I haven't said anything about
following them, you know. This keeping
up the character of a real sportsman
VOL. I. M

is rather expensive, Margaret. There
was another fellow said he knew I'd
give them a pony for their local races, and
when I said that I didn't happen to have
such a thing in the stable at present, he
poked me in the ribs, and said, " I would
have my little joke, and that he should
put me down for twenty-five pounds,"
and, what is more, he did ! '

Well,' said Mrs Bramton, ' I suppose
one must subscribe to all these sort of
things when one lives in the country.'

The country seems to think so.
There's a parson who got hold of me,
hoped I would allow him to put me down
for the cricket club ; had no doubt I
played. However, I lost no time in dispelling
that illusion. I told him he could
put me down for the club, but added
emphatically that I only looked on.
There was another fellow, too, very anxious
to discuss a division of the water
with me, and when I told him that he
might have it all as I didn't do much in
that way, he thanked me profusely, and

said It was the best stretch of fishing in
the county. I'm rather sorry I gave it
him now, for if I am to set up as a
sportsman, fishing strikes me as the
safest Hne to come out in ! ' and then
Mr Bramton strolled away again, to be
once more bewildered by the attentions
of his sporting neighbours, who could
not be convinced that the brother of so
well-known a racing man as Richard
Bramton could be anything but a gentleman
learned in horse-flesh, and of sporting
tendencies.

Sir Kenneth Sandiman, meanwhile, had
commenced operations in good earnest.
He had walked Miss Bramton clear of
the general crowd, and, having disposed
of the usual conventionalities customary
in our first intercourse with strangers,
was fast settling down into an incipient
flirtation with his fair companion. Matilda
Bramton was no novice at the game —
quite able to take care of herself, and
as much disposed to while away an hour
or two in this harmless amusement asher

cavalier. She laughed at his pretty
speeches, and put but little value upon
them ; and when they parted, mutually
well pleased with each other, nobody
would have felt more astonished than
herself if she had been told that Sir
Kenneth Sandiman had serious intentions
concerning her.

THE DINNER AT Nightshade.

Well, Lucy, what did you think of our
party to-day ? ' inquired Miss Bramton,
as she came into her sister's room, just
previous to dressing for dinner.

They were a pleasant lot of people,
and seem inclined to be civil. There
was one thing rather interested me, and
that was I heard Lady Ranksborow telling
Mrs Berriman that Mr Flood had
returned to England. He is evidently
well known down here.'

Flood — Mr Flood ? Ah ! I remember.
One of the gentlemen who took care of
you in Cairo. More to the purpose, my

sister, if it had been the other who had
come home, wouldn't it ? '

I don't suppose it much matters,
but I saw a good deal more of Captain
Cuxwold than I did of Mr Flood. However,
they were both as kind as they
knew how to be.'

'Well, I've no experience of soldiers;
but they've a general reputation for being
rather good at making themselves agreeable
when they choose. What did you
think of my cavalier, Sir Kenneth ?'

He was extremely attentive ; in fact,
quite as devoted as it was possible for a
man to be at a first interview. I should
say, Matilda, he was rather struck with
you ! '

'Oh, you goose!' said Miss Bramton,
laughing merrily ; ' that's only his natural
manner. Sir Kenneth can't help it. He
is one of those men who would make
love to a petticoat if he met it on a
clothes-line. He is a confirmed flirt, and,
I should think, never had serious intentions
in his life. However, he was very

pleasant this afternoon. Was there any
talk of Mr Flood's coming down here ? '

Not that I heard replied Lucy ; ' in
fact, all I discovered about him was what
I told you.'

Now it was an odd thing, but it had
never as yet occurred to Lucy to connect
the Captain Cuxwold she had met in Cairo
with the Ranksborow family ; firstly, she
had no idea that he was entitled to the
preface of the Honourable Captain Cuckold
; and secondly, until this afternoon,
she had really not known the Earl of
Ranksborow's family name. The presence
of Lady Jane and Lady Emily Cuckold
at Mrs Berriman's party had certainly
opened her eyes, and made her
speculate as to whether the dragoon she
had known at Cairo was any connection
of the Ranksborow family, but it still
never occurred to her that he was a junior
scion of the house. Neither she nor her
sister were much given to a study of the
peerage ; although the probability was
that they would now, at all events, read

up the Ranksborow tree, if only to ascertain
the exact ages of Lady Jane and Lady
Emily, — there being always much exultation
in the feminine mind on convicting a
sister of a year or two more than she acknowledges.
Lucy most certainly would
have liked to meet Mr Flood, if only for
the purpose of inquiring about his friend ;
but she had heard nothing that led her to
believe that his appearance in Barkshire
was expected at present.

As for Mr Bramton, the result of the
Berries' party had been most titillating
to his vanity. He had found himself
looked upon as a man of no little importance,
but he was too shrewd not to see
that the possession of Damocles weighed
heavily in the estimation of his neighbours.
There was no question now of
selling the horses ; on the contrary, he
felt so proud of the distinction that the
owning of a racing stud seemed to confer
upon him, that he quite forgot it was the
property of his daughter and not of himself.
The neighbourhood was determined

to regard him as a sportsman. He was
not the first man whom circumstances
have thrust into a role for which they are
perfectly unfitted ; but it was no use denying
it. Disclaims on his part were only
met with polite incredulity, and, with the
exception perhaps of the Earl of Ranks-brow,
there were none who did not
believe that John Bramton was a good
all-round sportsman, but especially that
he was a very knowing hand about turf
matters. Several men that afternoon had
sought to draw him into racing conversation
; his reticence thereon, which was due
merely to ignorance, was put down to
astuteness, and they one and all believed
that he could tell them a good deal if he
chose to speak.

Ah ! how often we are condemned out
of our own mouths ; how many of us
might be credited with wisdom if we
could but hold our tongues.

One thing certainly filled Mr Bramton
with misgivings, how was he to keep up
this cheaply-won reputation '^, He knew

he could not sustain it in the saddle, and
he was conscious of having accepted
sundry hazily-defined invitations to * shoot
when the season began.' True there
were rather over two months before, ashe
remarked to himself, that casualty
could occur, but he could not disguise, ashe
thought of these invitations, that his
knowledge of firearms went no further
than shooting for nuts at a fair. The last
words of the gentleman whom he had
unintentionally obliged about the fishing
had been, 'Of course I'll drop you a reminder
; but mind you're pledged to
come to me on the first.'

Can't say where I may be on the first,'
murmured Mr Bramton, * but it certainly
won't be at the house of that bloodthirsty
bird-slayer.'

But there was another section of the
turf world vastly moved and puzzled by
Mr John Bramton's movements. Mr
Skinner had been duly informed by his
employer of his utter failure to purchase
Damocles, and he in his turn informed the

Earl that there was a growing anxiety to
know what Mr Bramton meant to do with
those horses.

Resolves itself said Mr Skinner, ' into
the great fact that your lordship has got
all the yearling books about the colt, and,
judging by his debut, it looks very much
as if he had a great chance of winning the
Derby. Now you will excuse my saying
that your lordship didn't exercise your
usual discretion when you accepted twenty
thousand to three hundred from James
Noel. It is very rarely that anybody
wins long odds from him, and, though as
long as the colt is with Stubber no harm
will come to him that his trainer can
possibly guard against, yet there's something
in what one of the most straightforward
bookmakers said in my hearing
only yesterday about Damocles, 'ewe
needn't bother our heads much about that
one. Jim Noel has laid him, and it's
wonderful how a horse comes to grief
when Jim has laid long odds against
him." '

The Earl was much exercised about
this letter. He had never stood to win
such a stake over a horse in his life ashe
did over Damocles for next year's
Derby. He knew Mr James Noel —
nobody better — and could but admit that
there was reason in what Skinner told
him. As for Bramton, he hadn't quite
made up his mind about him. That the
man was sharp enough he had no doubt,
that he knew anything about racing he
thought extremely questionable; if he did,
then all he could say was that John
Bramton played the innocent better than
any man he had ever seen. But his
own opinion was that his ignorance was
not feigned ; and yet, the Earl reflected,
the owner of Temple Rising seemed to
have determined to act on his own judgment
in racing matters. However, the
Earl's stay at Knightshayes was drawing
to a close ; but before it was over,
it had been arranged that the Bramtons
should dine there. The Ranksborows
were people who broke the London

season by taking an occasional run down
to their country seat. On the present
occasion the Countess and her daughters
had come down for a somewhat prolonged
edition of the Whitsuntide holidays,
and the Earl had joined them at
Knightshayes after the termination of
the Ascot week. At this dinner Lord
Ranksborow felt that, if possible, he
must come to some arrangement with
his guest about the control of Damocles.
The colt was entered in the July
Stakes at Newmarket as well as having:
two or three engagements at Goodwood ;
and from the style in which he had won
on the Royal Heath, it did not seem
likely that the penalty he was rendered
liable to by his Ascot victory would
interfere with his success for whatever
he might be elected to run. Now this
was exactly the control that the Earl
wished to possess — the deciding for what
races Damocles should compete — and although
buying the colt was out of his
power, he thought it very possible that

he might fill the place of turf-adviser
to John Bramton. In good sooth no
one was better calculated for the post.
He was not only an astute and veteran
trite, but, in the present instance, his
interests and John Bramton's lay in the
same direction. The Earl had been
much too long at the game not to recognise
the truth of the old axiom that
'A bet is never a bet till it is hedged.'
Standing as he did to win an enormous
stake over Damocles, the more that
colt distinguished himself in his two-year
- old career, the better it would
serve his turn ; every race the horse
won would shorten the price against
him for next year's Derby, and afford
the Earl the opportunity of attaining that
halcyon, though rarely experienced, state
of things known as * standing on velvet,'
whereby is, of course, meant the standing
to win a comfortable stake with no possibility
of loss. As before said, the Earl
regarded Mr Bramton as unfeignedly ignorant
of racing. He looked on Stubber

the trainer as a straightforward, honest
man, who could be thoroughly trusted todo
his duty with the horses under his
charge ; but when it came to pitting
Stubber against such a perfectly unscrupulous
turf tactician as Mr James
Noel, Lord Ranksborow regarded it as
pretty much the country yokel playing
against a thimblerigger.

Stubber,' he muttered, ' is no doubt
straight enough ; but Noel, if he couldn't
get at the horse in the stable, would get
at the jockey out. No ; a man wants to
be master of every move on the board
to play against him. If I can, I'll play
my own hand ! '

The dinner party duly came off, and no
sooner had the ladies left the room than
Lord Ranksborow exclaimed, —

Come up to my end of the table,
Bramton. I want to have a racine
palaver with you. Why, I've hardly
had an opportunity of congratulating you
about Damocles' victory in the New
Stakes.'

Very good of your lordship, I'm sure.
I'm sorry I couldn't oblige your lordship ;
but the fact is — '

I'd no idea how good he was,' interrupted
the Earl, in an easy, off-hand
manner ; * and didn't offer you above a
quarter his value. Your brother was a
rattling good judge, and I knew he had
a very high opinion of the colt. I know
two things more now ; first, that your
brother was quite right, and, secondly,
that I can't afford to buy Damocles.'

No judge of these things myself, but
I suppose that horse is worth a tidy
sum. Now, what should you say, my
lord?'

Couldn't price him at all, Bramton.
He's worth a lot more than I offered you
for him ; but I hope your not thinking
of selling him. Let's bring the Blue
Ribbon to Barkshire, though I can't
afford to pay for the luxury of winning
it'

'Well,' said John Bramton, as he
sipped his port, ' I've always found in

business it's a mistake, you know, to
stand out too long. It's always difficult
to know when the top of the market is
reached. You make a good spec' say,
and buy goods at 80 ; they run up to
115, and you say at 120 I'll sell; then
comes a sudden drop, and you are perhaps
glad to take 90 or so after all.'

I hope you'll allow me to guide you a
little in this matter. You mustn't think of
selling the colt yet. I assure you there's
a lot of money to be made out of him.
Now, for instance, there are the July
Stakes next month. I suppose you'll run
him for that ? '

I'm sure I don't know. I didn't know
that he was in for such a thing. I've
never even seen him yet. By the way,
I don't want to make any scandal, but,
you know, I haven't heard anything about
that money I won at Ascot yet. I suppose
I had better write about it ? '

I've not the slightest doubt Messrs
Weatherbyby in Old Burlington Street have
placed it to your account,' replied the Earl,

VOL. I. N

lauo^hine. 'You must come down to New

o

market next month and see your colt run
Ah ! I suppose It is the proper thing
to do when you're an owner of racehorses,'
and Mr Bramton thrust his thumbs into the
armholes of his waistcoat and threw himself
into his favourite pompous attitude ;
•' but I leave most of the arrangements
to Stubber, my fellow, you know — sort
of medical man in charge of the horses,
keeps em in health, and all that sort of
thing

I know him. Excellent man. No better
trainer at Newmarket ; but it is as well
to look after these sort of things yourself.'
Quite so, quite so,' replied Mr Brandon.
' The only thing is when you're no
judge of the goods, by which I mean
the horses, it's best to leave the buying
and selling, by which I mean the settling
what they're to do, to somebody who
understands the business. Now, my lord,
the only thing I can understand is putting
these horses up to auction, and letting 'em
go for what they will fetch. Stubber recommends

me to do that, and I've told
him to arrange to do it next month.'

God bless my soul ! man,' exclaimed
the Earl excitedly, ' you don't mean to
say you are going to put Damocles up
for sale next month ? '

Bramton is joking,' cried Mr Ferryman,
who had been listening to the conversation
with no little curiosity. ' You
can't mean to deprive Barkshire of the
honour of taking its first Derby ? '

You didn't let me finish said John
Bramton. ' Stubber advised me to sell
the whole stud, bar Damocles and a horse
called Whitechapel, which, it seems, he
thinks necessary to " lead the work,"
whatever that may mean.'

Mr Berriman and the Earl laughed, and
the former said :

It won't do, Bramton ; it won't do.
Fellows talk *' horse " very often who
know precious little about it, but you
don't catch me taking honos odds from
a fellow who pretends to know as little
about it as you do. Bless you, my boy,

I've been had by the innocents in my day.
We know all about the Heathen Chinee
and the game " he did not understand." '
If Berriman and the Earl did, Bramton
did not. He had been a busy man all
his life till quite lately, and his reading
had been pretty strictly confined to the
daily papers, and, as we know, there were
some parts of those at which he never
glanced. But one things Bramton did
understand, and that was that the general
public were determined to regard him asa
sportsman, and that his affectation of
ignorance on the subject was regarded asa
capital joke. In racing matters this is so
constantly the case, that the man who knows
nothing, and maintains a rigid silence, is
always regarded as a model of astuteness,
and when, considerably more to his own
surprise than that of anybody else, the
horse which he has not backed for a sixpence
wins easily, he is credited with having
won an enormous stake, and having
been a very Mephistopheles in the manipulation
of the betting market.

Lucy's inoculation.

Lord Ranksborow, as they joined the
ladles, was hardly satisfied with the results
of his diplomatic dinner. Mr Bramton,
while quite admitting that his ignorance
of racing distinctly unfitted him to determine
for what stakes Damocles should run,
yet by no means seemed desirous of handing
over such decision to his host. Mr
Bramton, in his business days, had been
apt to reckon up his fellows pretty accurately.
He had come to the conclusion
that Mr Stubborn was an honest, energetic
man, who knew what he was about, and
he thought it just as well that the management
of the colt should be left entirely to

him. The Earl had sounded his guest

pretty freely on this point ; but though

John Bramton temporised, and did not

positively decline to accept Lord Ranks-brow's

proffered services, yet he never

for one second committed himself, and

boldly made the request which the Earl

had hoped, namely, that he would take

the entire management of Damocles. He

would go no further than saying that he

was extremely fortunate to have a friend

like his lordship, to whom he could always

come for advice, but he would not pledge

himself even not to sell the colt. He

would go no further than say he should

not part with him at present. He would

hear what Stubber had to say after the

others were sold, etc. In fact, the Earl

rather ruefully came to the conclusion

that John Bramton meant to take his

own way in this business, and that his

trainer would probably have more to say

to the tactics of the stable than any one

else.

*A deuced knowing shot this,' mused

the Earl, * and perfectly able to take care
of himself. They'll not get Temple Rising-out
of him as they did from poor Molyneux
; but, shrewd as he is, he has one
weak point, and that point might cost
him a lot of money, as it has done many
others. He has a tremendous idea of
his own importance, and that will be my
safeguard about his sticking to Damocles.
He has already discovered that owning
the first favourite of the Derby adds to
his importance. It will be easy to keep
that feeling alive in a dozen different ways,
and as long as his pocket is not touched
too severely, he'll not forego the swagger
of the position.'

In the course of the evening the Miss
Bramtons were also made conscious of
the pleasures of owning successful racehorses.
Several trophies in the way of
cups decorated both the dinner table and
the sideboard, which had been won by
the Earl in the course of his turf career.
Lady Jane Cuxwold, too, showed a handsome
bracelet which her father had given

her upon the occasion of his winning the
Chester Cup some four years ago. The
Earl was lavish to his family when fortune
smiled upon him ; and when they saw the
interest the Miss Bramtons took in it,
the Countess as well as her daughters
exhibited various specimens of the spoils
of war.

Lady Ranksborow was not a little
struck by the keen, sensible inquiries that
Lucy Bramton made about turf matters.
The girl evidently knew but little about
them, but she was very persistent in her
endeavours to understand the mysteries of
racing. Her sister, on the other hand,
gabbled on as young ladies are somewhat
wont to do, saying it must be delightful
to win races and get bangles,
and that she was quite sure that she
should delight in it ; that she had never
seen anything of it yet ; but that, now
her uncle had left them his stud, of course
they should go everywhere.

Now it must be borne in mind that
though Mrs and Miss Bramton were perfectly

well aware that Richard Bramton's
property had been all left to Lucy, yet
they never proclaimed that fact, and were
indeed honestly ignorant that these racehorses
were not only hers, but that it was
an open question whether they were not
under her own immediate control ; that
she could positively decide for what stakes
they should run ; and that it would be a
fine point for the lawyers whether Lucy,
for instance, had not the right to strike
Damocles out of all engagements. The
young lady was very quiet, but she had
a will of her own. Her uncle's money
she knew must come positively into her
own possession when she came of age,
and, besides the desire to carry out her
uncle's last wishes, her Imagination had
been highly inflamed by the victory of
Damocles at Ascot. Then these Ranks-brow
people, who had all been brought
up amidst the racecourse and the hunting
field, still further excited her, and
she began to think that It would be
rather a fine thine to be the owner of

a few racehorses. Under the tuition of
Lady Jane and Lady Emily, she made
considerable progress in turf lore. That
evening she ascertained that there was
nothing out of the way in a lady keeping
some, though they usually ran them
In an assumed name ; and the result of
all this talk was that Lucy resolved to
ascertain at once how far her control really
extended over Mr Stubber's chartres. Foro



instance, she knew her father was contemplating
the sale of the greater part
of them. At all events she would write
to Mr Pecker, and have a legal opinion
as to whether this could be done in opposition
to her wishes, should she think
fit to decree otherwise. However, in the
meantime, the appearance of the gentlemen
changed the tenor of the conversation,
and Miss Bramton, at all events,
was soon immersed in her flirtation with
Sir Kenneth Sandiman.

Nice affable people the Ranksborows,"
said Mr Bramton, as they drove home.
Not a bit stuck up. Being an owner of

racehorses, you see, gives one a sort of
tone in society, I find. Bless you ! they
all seem to regard me as an authority.'

I don't see much use in it, if we're
never to go and see races,' rejoined Miss
Bramton, rather sharply. ' Lady Jane
told me they always went to Ascot, and
was quite surprised that we were not
there to see Damocles win.'

Yes, papa, and they would not believe
that we had never even seen him. I must
see Damocles.' said Lucy, with quiet but
decided emphasis ; and the girl was more
than ever confirmed in her resolve to write
to Mr Pecker on the morrow.

Yes, John ; we really must go to the
next fashionable gathering. I don't know
when it is, or where it is, but we must

go-yes

; and it's the proper thing to give
your daughters bracelets or something of
that sort when you win, papa ! ' exclaimed
Matilda.

Yes ; and you must win, and you must
do it,' chorused Lucy.

I tell you what it Is said Mr Bramton
testily, ' if an owner of racehorses is liable
to all these obligations, the sooner I'm
out of the lot the better,'

Oh ! you can't do that, papa. Lady
Ranksborow said she was sure you were
too good a sportsman to part with Damocles
before he had won the Derby.'

Well,' said Mr Bramton, ' I'm not sure
I'm quite calculated to make a good
sportsman ; it seems that there is a little
too much expected of one. Now, as far
as a quiet day's fishing goes, I don't
mind ; but this subscribing to the hounds,
etc., I don't exactly see.'

*A11 quite necessary in your position,
papa dear,' said Miss Matilda. ^ I'm sure
we've had a most delightful evening and
Sir Kenneth is a most agreeable man,
worth a hundred of those old business
frumps or young City prigs you used to
bring home to dinner at Wimbledon.'

John Bramton relapsed into silence.
The contest was too unequal — the ladies
were all against him — sand he found himself,

so to speak, under such a cross-fire of
conversation that the holdings of his tongue
was the most discreet thins he could do •
and in spite of the elation the being the
reputed owner of Damocles had occasioned
him during the evening, he thought, perhaps,
that the sooner he got rid of the
horses, which he had now quite learned to
consider his own, the better.

What does Dartree say ? ' inquired the
Earl, as he entered his wife's room, and
found the Countess glancing over a letter
in her son's handwriting.

I was so late that I hadn't time to
read it before dinner,' replied Lady Ranks-brow
; ' but there's nothing much in it,
aimless you consider this message to you
of importance. " Tell my father," he says,
'that Damocles is very unsteady in the
market. There's a tendency to lay against
him in somewhat dangerous quarters. No
reason that I can hear of except they say
that he will be offered for sale during the
July week. Ask him if he knows anything
about it." '

i>

Know anything about it,' said the Earl
irritably. * I know as much about it as it's
possible to know with such a suspicious,
undecided fool as Bramton to deal with.'

I think you're wrong there, Rank,' said
the Countess. ' It strikes me Mr Bramton
is no fool, whatever else he may be.'

No, you're quite right, he isn't ; but
he's so afraid of anybody getting the
better of him, of his not making the
very most of these horses, that it's impossible
to wring a decided answer out
of him about what he's going to do with
Damocles. He has eaten my mutton and
drank my claret,' continued the Earl,
laughing, * under false pretences to-night.
I asked him here for the purpose of
o^ettinor a distinct declaration of his views
on that very point. I wanted him to let
me have the management of the horse ;
but no, all I could get out of him was
that he had not as yet made up his mind
to sell Damocles, which I knew before.'

You and Dart stand to wain a bio; stake
over this horse, don't you } ' ^

'Yes.'

'And would rather he remained in Mr
Bramton's hands than otherwise ? '

Just so,' said the Earl, with a nod.

Then you leave it to me and the
girls, Rank. You needn't laugh ; we can
do more for you than you think here.
Jane and Emily, without intending it,
have even the Miss Bramtons the
racine fever to-nio^ht. We'll take care
it don't cool. They'll never let their
father sell Damocles.'

Lord Ranksborow laughed.

'All right,' he rejoined; 'do your best.
Remember, if Damocles won, next day
there would be an easiness in the money
market to which for years we've been
unaccustomed.'

True to her resolve, the next morning
Lucy wrote to Mr Pecker to inquire
how her powers stood with regard to
this proposed sale. Mr Pecker's answer,
which arrived in the course of two or
three days, was clear and succinct.

With regard to the greater part of

these horses, no question arises. The
condition of the will is, till they have
run through their engagements. Most
of them have been nominated by the
late Richard Bramton, and such nominations
are void by his death. Damocles
and another two-year-old called Lucifer,
both heavily engaged, are nominated by
Mr Stubber, as also, it appears, is a 
named Whitechapel, in one or
two instances. The question, therefore,
of your power to keep or sell under the
codicil are confined to these three ; and,
in the case of the latter horse, it will
speedily expire, as his engagements will
be fulfilled. With Damocles and Lucifer
the case is very different, as their engagements
extend over the whole of
next year, and even into the year beyond,
I have taken counsel's opinion, and the
result is that, though admittedly a very
fine point, the authority I consulted
thinks the codicil goes beyond a wish,
and implies a condition of inheritance
which might be legally disputed if not

complied with. As far as we know,
there is nobody to raise the question ;
but, as a lawyer, I must say, '' Dont
give a possible somebody the chanced My
racing experiences are of little value,
but my advice to you would be to let
these horses run through engagements
at the discretion of their trainer. Mr
Stubber has the credit of being a clever,
straightforward man in his business, and,
from what he told me, Damocles will
more than pay all expenses.'

Bitten as Lucy was, but in much more
genuine fashion than her father, with a
strong inclination to dabble with the turf,
this letter was eminently satisfactory.
With her father, the possession or control
of racehorses was merely a thing he
desired because it increased his importance
; but Lucy's imagination had been
excited by the Ladies Cuxwold, and she
had begun to dream of seeing her own
horse and her own colours at Ascot,
Goodwood, or some of the great turf
social gatherings. Mr Pecker's letter

VOL. I. o

told her that it behoved her to keep
three of the horses, and amongst them
Damocles, which, from what her uncle
had told her, and from what she had
heard since, she believed to be much
the best horse she possessed ; and, indeed,
it was to him she looked for the
attainment of such social successes as
she might attain on the racecourse. She
looked forward to the time when she
might become the heroine of the hour ;
when she might be pointed out as the
owner of Damocles, who had just won
the principal race at Sundown. She had
read only a little before that the Marchioness
of Burleigh had appeared in the
royal paddock at Ascot attired in a dress
of her husband's racing colours. Then
she wondered what Uncle Dick's colours
were ; and then came woman's natural
hope that they were pretty — thinking over
as she was this matter of a dress of the
same colours, it was highly essential that
they should be so. For instance, she had
read in this very account of somebody's

well-known jacket of white and green
spots proving triumphant. Now, what
was any woman to make of a dress of
that description ? However, she supposed
colours could be changed like other
things ; and then, I'm afraid, it occurred
to her feminine and uninstructed mind that
it might be nice to change her colours as
she did her dresses, or, at all events, once
every season. She had yet to learn that
a thorough trite is devoted to his jacket
as proud of the banner which he had
seen borne triumphant in a hundred frays
as the soldier of the colours under which
he has fought and bled.

Then she fell to ruminating on Mr
Pecker's letter. Armed with that, she
felt she could defy her father, who, though
flattered, as above said, by the importance
the ownership of Damocles conferred upon
him, was too keen a money-maker not to
sell the horse for a large sum if the matter
rested entirely with him. As a matter of
sport, Mr Bramton felt no manner of
interest in the inheritance that had come

to his daughter ; as a matter of swagger
he no doubt did. But Lucy knew that
her father's old business habits would
eclipse that as soon as the bait dangled
before his eyes was big enough. Armed
with Mr Pecker's letter, she felt that she
could do as she liked with her own,
although a good year must elapse before
she attained her majority.

MR SKINNER IS PUZZLED.

^ Well, Stubber,' exclaimed Mr Skinner,
as he encountered the trainer coming
home with his string from the Heath on
the Monday in the July week, * I see Dick
Bramton's horses are all up for sale, bar
Damocles ? '

Not quite,' replied the other as he
walked his cob alongside the commissioner's
hack. ' My new employer has
kept Damocles, and Whitechapel to lead
him, at my request ; but I'll tell you one
thing more, Mr John Bramton may know
nothlnir about things, but there is somebody
pulling the strings who docs. I
wonder who has recommended him to

keep Lucifer — never suggested it — but
whoever did is a good judge.'

Promising, eh ?' remarked Skinner.

Yes ; he Is a smartish colt, though
backward. I've never been able to try
him properly yet, but I've no doubt,
before the end of the season, he will
show himself what I tell you.'

I suppose Mr Bramton never comes
down to look at the horses ? '

Never been down since they were
his,' rejoined the trainer ; ' never had an
employer in my life who took so little
interest in racing. I went to see him
once, and I've written to him several
times, and telegraphed to him besides, but
I've only had one letter from him, and
that was to tell me that I was to put all
the horses up for sale this week, with the
exception of the three mentioned. I'm
very glad he's going to stick to Damocles,
and I'm glad he keeps Lucifer ; but what
prompted him to keep the latter, I'm
jiggered if I know.'

'It is odd where he sot that hint

remarked Skinner. 'Why, even I, who
am always at it, didn't know that you
reckoned Lucifer smart. Of course I
knew you had got a colt of that name.
Lucifer by Satan, out of Morning Star,
is pretty heavily entered, but the very
horse-watchers haven't begun to talk about
him yet.'

No ; and he won't be seen out till the
back end. If Mr Bramton had been a
racing gentleman, I should have told him
not to part with that one, but I was so
afraid of his putting Damocles up for sale,
that I didn't like to go too far. Dam'me,
he looks upon racehorses as not only
expensive, but dangerous besides.'

'Well, good-bye, Stubber. I must go
home and get some breakfast. I don't
suppose the penalty will stop your colt in
the July.'

Not a bit of it,' laughed the trainer ;
'he could carry five pound more, and win.
Take advice, and though it is contrary to
your rule, stand the favourite for once.'

I think I must,' replied the bookmaker,

smiling, ' if the odds on him are not too
expensive. Good-morning. I'd give a
sovereign,' muttered Mr Skinner to himself,
' to know what induced John Brandon
to keep Lucifer.'

Little escaped Mr Skinner's notice. He
would never have obtained the position he
held, and the substance he possessed, had
it not been for his faculty of close observation.
It was a maxim with him that
information, however trivial, was always
worth picking up. A straw shows which
way the wind blows, and racing men are
wonderfully quick at catching a hint that
will be of use to them in their vocation.
Many a trifle like this had, when interpreted,
helped Mr Skinner to make money.
The mere fact of Lucifer not being offered
for sale would suggest that the stable set
store upon him ; and his trainer freely
acknowledged that they were sanguine
about his turning out promising. But
the bookmaker looked upon it that he
had caught a clue to something more
than that — a clue to what, he had no

Idea—but what motive had John Brandon
in excepting this colt from his approaching
sale ? Damocles and Whitechapel
he could understand, that was by
the advice of his trainer, and it was quite
likely that Bramton, after tasting the
sweets of winning, might think that there
was more money to be made by running
Damocles than selling him. But these
reasons did not apply to Lucifer. Stubber
had most distinctly said that it was by no
advice of his that the colt was kept, and
whether he could win or not was yet to
be seen. A shrewd, suspicious man, but
with no great faith in anybody but himself,
Mr Skinner turned this puzzle over
and over in his mind as he walked his
hack home to his lodgings.

Lord Ranksborow had taken a much
more correct estimate than his commissioner.
True he had had many more
opportunities of seeing the owner of
Temple Rising than his agent ; but
Skinner had fallen into the mistake that,
because Bramton was simple and ignorant

about the affairs of the turf, he was
equally simple and foolish in other matters.
Lord Ranksborow had divined this ; he
saw that Bramton was a man who usually
acted on his own judgment, and that if
he sought advice eagerly about the disposal
of these horses, it was not so much
that he meant to take it, but really to
learn the worth of and how to make the
most of the property that had so unexpectedly
fallen into his hands. Could
they but have known the real state of
the case, and seen Mr Pecker's last
letter, both Mr Skinner and the Earl
would have been not a little astonished.
However, Mr Skinner could make no
more of his puzzle at present than that
Lord Ranksborow must have been the
person who had inspired Bramton to
keep Lucifer, and yet, somehow, he felt
that was not the true solution. First
of all, the Earl usually confided to him
any piece of turf strategy which he had
planned ; and secondly, what object could
his patron have in the retention of

Lucifer ? According to Stubber, they
had never as yet fairly tried the colt,
and their estimate of his merits was
therefore conjectural. He was not a
youngster for whom a long price had
been paid, as In the case of Damocles,
nor had he been talked about, nor his
advent on a racecourse expected with all
the Interest and curiosity that had attended
that of the latter. He doubted,
Indeed, whether Lucifer's career as yet
was not a matter of complete Indifference
to Lord Ranksborow, and then asked
himself again, angrily, * What the deuce
made John Bramton keep that colt ? '
Mr Skinner had passed much time, and
not altogether unprofitably, In working
out knotty points of this description.

There were two other men also returning
from the Heath after watching the
gallops that morning, but these young-persons
were not riding, but trusting to
their own leo^s to brinor them back to
town.

It's a little hard, Sim,' said the younger

of the two, a fresh-complexioned young
fellow of about twenty ; ' those horses will
fetch a pot of money next week, and
by rights I ought to have the biggest
part of it.'

If what you tell me is true,' replied
his companion, a sharp, wizened, preternaturally
old young man, ' it is rather
rough. Richard Bramton must have left
a good bit of money behind him, and
if what you say is true, and you really
are his son, he ought to have done something
for you ; but nobody ever heard
that Dick Bramton was married.'

Well, it was many years ago, and I
don't suppose he was much older than
I am now, and then he and mother soon
parted. They couldn't get along together.
I don't want to say a word against her,
poor thing, but you see, Sim, she had a
temper, and what's worse, she couldn't
leave the bote alone. It's not much
wonder Bramton couldn't get on with
her.'

You will excuse my asking a question,'

said Simon Napper, ' I suppose you've
got proof of this marriage ? '

No, I haven't ; but mother always
declared she was married.'

Mr Napper was an attorney's clerk,
and his profession taught him to put
but little faith in an assertion that could
not be corroborated.

And you've never been called by any
other name than Robbins ? '

No,' returned the other. 'When my
father and mother separated, it was a
condition that she should resume her
maiden name, and live away from Newmarket.
He allowed her all he could at
first, and latterly made her a fairly liberal
allowance ; but a little before her death
he gave her a lump sum down.'

*I see,' said Mr Napper; 'he capitalised
the allowance, and made it over to
her to do as she liked with.'

Not altogether,' replied Robbins ; ' she
could only touch the interest during her
life, but she could will it to whom she
liked.'

And she, I suppose, left It to you ? '

Yes ; but what was the good of three
thousand pounds ? '

'Good of it?' returned Mr Napper ;
why, it was enough to start any man
with a head on his shoulders in any
business. Why, your father Dick Brandon
began with nothing, and he left,
according to all accounts, a pretty good
pile behind him.'

• Yes,' returned Robbins ; ' but then he
had such luck. Now, I never had any
luck. If I back a horse, it's sure to
break down or do something awkward —
go the wrong side of the post, or be
disqualified for foul riding.'

Strikes me, Master Tom, there was
just this difference between yourself and
your father, — he had a head on his
shoulders, and mentally you've not.
Didn't he ever take any notice of you ?
Didn't he ever do anything for you ? '

'No; I never knew he was my father
even till after his death. My mother was
very ill then, and she told me the story,

and vowed that she was really married to
him. She said she had kept the secret,
as she had promised, and would have
still kept it had it not been for his death.
A few weeks later, poor soul, and she
followed him.'

And he never did anything for
you ?'

Well,' replied Tom Robbins, in a
somewhat shamefaced way, ' you know
some three years ago, just about the time
you were articled, you were astonished at
my being taken into the bank. Well,
mother said a very old friend of hers had
managed that for her, and given her a
liberal cheque for me to get a regular
rig out with. As you know, it wasn't
many months before I got the sack.
Mother was in a great taking about it ;
said I'd quarrelled with the best friend
I had, who was very angry, and declared
he'd do nothing more for me. Now I
don't know for certain, but I think that
was my father.'

Most likely,' rejoined Mr Napper.

Well, you were a fool, though, of course,
you didn't know how big a one at the
time. Nothing is more likely than that
you would have come into a big slice of
Dick Bramton's money if you had only
kept straight. I suppose you've made a
tidy hole in that three thousand pounds
your mother left you ? '

Yes,' replied Tom Robbins ; ' I'm such
an unlucky devil, I never win.'

Mr Tom Robbins was a weak-kneed,
foolish young man, with no backbone to
his character, with idle and vicious propensities,
never likely to do any good for
himself in this world, and who, had he
had the slightest idea of his claim upon
Richard Bramton, would have endeavoured
to batten on him like a horseleech.
The very few people who knew
anything about this episode in Richard
Bramton's earlier life would, I fancy, have
put a very different complexion upon it.
They would rather have laughed at the
idea of there having been any marriage,
and pronounced Dick Bramton thoroughly

justified in not binding himself for life
to a woman of such violent temper and
intemperate habits as Mary Robbins.
Moreover, it might have been very
plausibly argued that, if she had marriage
lines to show, such a headstrong
woman as Mary Robbins would never
have acquiesced in abandoning her position
as a wife. Further, scandal rather
credited her with being but a light o'
love at the best.

Well, I did think I should have taken
something under his will,' continued Tom,
after a short pause. 'As I've never heard
from the lawyers anything about it, nor,
indeed, what his will was, I suppose
there is nothing for me. If I could only
find that certificate, I suppose, I should
come into all.'

That don't follow at all,' rejoined
Mr Napper. ' Richard Bramton could
leave his money to whom he pleased, and
from all I've heard, Dick Bramton was
just the man to leave a son out in the
cold who displeased him.'

VOL. I. p

'But it's deuced unfair!' cried Tom,
in a lachrymose tone, ' that everything-should
go to an uncle whom I've never
seen. There might be something left
to me ; there might be a recommendation
to my Uncle John to lend me a
hand. I should like to see that will.'

You are perfectly right there,' rejoined
Mr Napper ; 'always see a will in which
you think there is any possibility of your
being interested. It only costs a shilling,
and it's worth the trouble and outlay.
On the off chance, I don't suppose
anything will come of it, but, as I said
before, it's worth spending a shilling
oven'

I'll do it,' said Tom ; ' and now I
must go home and write my report'

Mr Robbins at present held the responsible
position of reporter at headquarters
to a London sporting paper, and
though so far he had never electrified its
readers by any striking intelligence, yet
he managed to get through his work well
enough to retain his situation.

He'll never come to any good,
thought Simon Napper, as he mused
over the above conversation. * She
didn't like to acknowledge it, no doubt,
but depend upon it, his mother never
was married ; and a self-made, reliant
man like Richard Bramton would have
no patience with a feeble, feckless fool
like that. Tom little thought when he
was kicked out of that situation, and
used to be swaggering and vapouring
about what a fast life he had led in
London, that he was doing this under
the nose of his own father, and a father
too, with a pot of money to leave.'

THE JULY STAKES.

The racing world were gathered together
at the back of the ditch for the celebration
of one of the pleasantness meetings
of the year. After the roar of Epsom
and the crowd of Ascot the comparative
quiet of the July Meeting is most enjoyable.
Held in the midst of summer,
and favoured as a rule with splendid
weather, it enjoys also another distinct
privilege — there Is licence in the matter
of dress. On the Royal Heath fashion
demands the showiest costumes, and is
inexorable about the chimney-pot on the
part of the male sex. At Newmarket
you may do as you please in the matter

of attire, and defy the fierce rays of the
sun as you so will It. Amongst those
who had come for the sport were a considerable
section who were quite as much
attracted by the sales. To many menthe
looking over thoroughbred stock, the
talking over how the youngsters are
bred, the arguing about the different
strains of blood, and, above all, how the
prices for which the youngsters are sold
coincides with their own judgment, is
quite as interesting as the racing Itself ;
then there were the buyers always expecting
to draw a prize out of that most
capricious of lucky-bags, a yearling sale.
Often as they have given long prices
only to find that the youngsters who
had fallen to the auctioneer's hammer
for a thousand and upwards were never
destined to realise the high hopes entertained
of them, still, carried away by the
grand looks of some colt, or of a strain
of blood that they peculiarly fancy, they
take one more ticket in Fortune's wheel,
only to find once more that, —

Legs are not steel, and steel is bent ;
Legs are not rocks, and rocks are rent,'

and that the high price purchase succumbs
to the exigencies of training.

The sale of the late Richard Brandon's
horses was not calculated to attract
undue attention. Good, useful horses
they were, and likely to sell well ; but
everybody knew that * the pick of the
basket,' Damocles, was not to be put
up. That Lucifer also was reserved
was noticed only by a few old hands.
The colt had never run, and therefore
was almost unknown by name to the
race goers ; but amongst the few people
whose attention it did attract were Lord
Ranksborow, Mr James Noel, and Mr
Simon Napper. For the first time since
that memorable visit to Epsom in his
youth, John Bramton had been fairly
goaded into appearing on a racecourse.
He had no idea of being present at Newmarket,
or indeed any other race meeting,
but the feminine pressure brought
to bear had proved too strong for him.

In spite of his first curt refusal, accompanied
by the comments that he had
never heard such preposterous nonsense,
and that Newmarket was no place for
ladies, Mrs Bramton and her daughters
returned again and again to the charge.
Those comments of John Bramton had
been injudicious. He had advanced
reasons for his refusal, which, as Lord
Chancellor Throe said, ' you should
never do.' It was speedily proved to
him, on the testimony of the Ladies
Cuxwold, that there was nothing at all
preposterous in the idea, that ladies did
go to Newmarket, and that very jolly
it was.

'Quite lovely!' said Lady Emily.
'Just a sailor hat and a muslin dress;
and you take a big hamper in the carriage,
and picnic on the grass ; and you can
get about, and haven't all the horrid crowd
of Ascot. I only wish papa would take
us ; but he says he can't afford a cottage
this year.'

Supported by these authorities, Mrs

Bramton and her daughters gave the head
of the house no peace. He felt that he
would have to yield. Mrs Bramton and
the girls usually carried their point at
last, and, therefore, John Bramton felt
he might as well give in as prolong the
struggle. Added to which, Lucy privately
urged that she ought to be allowed
to see her own horses run, more especially
as she was in a position, as she said, ' to
pay for the lark.' So it had been resolved
that the whole party were to make their
racing debut on the Heath, under the
auspices of Lord Ranksborow.

One trifling difficulty had presented itself
In the first instance. Lord Ranks-brow
had suggested a hack to Mr
Bramton, but about this the master of
Temple Rising was very positive. If
it were not possible to see horse-racing
except by getting on a horse, then he
would contrive to do without that sight.

The Earl laughed, and speedily reassured
him, and said, ' that, upon the
whole, a good roomy carriage would probably

suit the whole party much better,' and
re-assured for the present about Damocles,
the Earl promised to act as a mentor in
some sort, to see that their carriage was
placed in a proper position, etc., and
cordially accepted an invitation to come
and pick a bit with them at luncheon
time.

A favourite expression of Mr Bramton's
was, ' I never go in for things by halves ; '
and, now, having gone in for racing, he
was determined to act up to his favourite
maxim. He sent down a roomy barouche
and a pair of job-horses from London,
and as for hampers, their size and number
gave the idea that Bramton contemplated
asking half the Heath to lunch with him.
He really was of a hospitable disposition,
but this result was principally due to the
absurd idea he had conceived of his own
importance as the soi-disant owner of
Damocles. He really did conceive that
many of the leading patrons of the turf
desired to make his acquaintance, and
would probably have expected to be at

once elected a member of the Jockey
Club, had he remembered that such a
body existed. His neighbours at Temple
Rising had a little fostered this idea.

o

He ignored the well-known axiom, ' You
may be a big man in the country,
and a very small one in the metropolis
Newmarket is the metropolis of the
turf.

The Miss Bramtons experienced much
difficulty in restraining their father in the
matter of dress. True to his great principle
of not going in for things by halves,
Mr Bramton was excessively anxious to
attire himself as a genuine racing man.
How these arrayed themselves he did not
know, but his own idea was evolved from
his inner consciousness and a hazy recollection
of the Hill at Espom, and, but
for the control of his daughters, John
Bramton's get-up would have been very
striking. He had doubts as to whether
top-boots were not a sine qua iiori for a
professed owner of racehorses, but this
was finally compromised for a pair of

extremely tight-fitting, horsey-looking cord
trousers and a white hat, which the girls
felt it was useless to combat, and, besides,
there was nothing remarkable in that,
but a dust-coloured coat of very pronounced
colour was the occasion of a long
struggle, eventually terminating in the
defeat of Matilda and Lucy. Mr B ram-ton
vowed he would go to Newmarket
in that salmon-tinted garment, or he
would not go at all ; and, thus attired,
armed with a Brobdignagian pair of race
glasses, made his first appearance on
Newmarket Heath.

Mr Bramton was not a little disappointed
at the aspect of Newmarket.
True to that one racing reminiscence of
his juvenile days, he had pictured to himself
all the knock-'em-downs, cocoa-nuts,
nigger minstrels, and the other eccentric
artists that swarm about the Hill at
Epsom. The absence of this element
depressed him.

Aristocratic, my dears ! ' he exclaimed ;
but don't you think it's just a Icctlc dull ?

And if these are the swells, all I can says
they don't dress up to the mark.'

And here Mr Bramton pulled up his
shirt-collar, as much as to say that heat
all events, was not liable to that
accusation.

That flame-coloured garment of papa's
will be our ruin ! ' whispered Miss Matilda
to her sister. ' What a happy thought
that was of yours, Lucy, about the gloves.'

Lucy had ingeniously kidnapped a very
bright-coloured pair of gloves that her
father had elected to wear at the last
moment, substituting a more sombre-hued
pair in their place.

And now the horses go leisurely down
to the post for the July.

Oh ! papa,' exclaimed Matilda, * what a
hideous jacket yours is ! You really must
change it.'

Once more did Lucy, thoroughly agreeing
with her sister on this point, inwardly
vow that next year should see Damocles
run in prettier colours.

But the babel of the ring is stilled, the

flag falls, and the field are away for the
Julyss. Hardly a sound breaks the soft
summer air, and every eye is strained
upon that cluster of gay jackets so rapidly
nearing the spectators. The thud of the
advancing hoofs now falls distinctly on the
ear, followed by the cry of ' Prize-fighter
wins ! ' * Harlequin wins ! ' Mr Bramton
feels his head turnings. He is fumbling
with his glasses, and has lost sight of
the horses, when suddenly rings through
the air the clear, distinct tones of Lord
Ranksborow, —

A hundred to ten on Damocles 1
Damocles wins ! — wins in a canter ! '

A couple of minutes more, up goes
the number, and it is evident the Earl's
verdict has been confirmed.

Let me congratulate you, Mr Brandon,'
said Lord Ranksborow, as he raised
his hat and reined up his horse by the side
of the carriage. ' I don't know what the
judge's verdict may be, but I'm quite convinced
that your horse won easily. I am
going to take the liberty of asking you to

give an old friend of mine some lunch.
Let me introduce you to Mr Flood.'

Alec raised his hat, while a little hand
was extended from the carriage to him,
and Lucy exclaimed, —

Mr Flood and I are old acquaintances.
I trust you recollect me ? '

Not likely that I should forget you,
Miss Bramton,' replied Alec, as he shook
hands. ' I have often wondered whether
we should meet again, and little thought it
would be here. I don't very often trouble
a racecourse, though I might have known
it was not an unlikely place to meet you.'

She could hardly have explained why,
but Lucy felt a little nettled at this remark
; and yet she had been dying to pay
this visit to Newmarket. Her horse was
successful, and everything promised to
make the day coulter de rose. She
wanted to meet Flood, but she was conscious
that she would rather have met
him anywhere else.

There you are wrong,' replied Lucy.
I have never been on a racecourse before,

and \{ it hadn't been for my poor
uncle's death, should probably have not
been here now ; but Damocles, you know,
was his horse, and we were all anxious to
see him win just once.'

Of course ; I understand now. By the
way, I remember hearing that the stud
became your father's property. I must
congratulate you, Mr Bramton.'

Very good of you, I'm sure. Yes ;
they tell me that horse of mine is a regular
*' sneezer." At all events, he keeps winning,
which is satisfactory. But just give
your horse to one of the men there to
hold, and come up on the box and have
some lunch.'

Don't you think, Mr Flood, we have
the most hideous jacket there is registered
? Papa, you really must change
it.'

Good heavens ! don't be so rash, Miss
Bramton,' cried Lord Ranksborow. ' You
can't do more than win. Any old race-goes
will tell you, as I do, that to change
your jacket is to change your luck.'

Poor Uncle Dick used to say that
they might not be pretty, that wasn't in
his way ; what he liked about them was
that they were good to see.'

Ridiculous ! ' exclaimed John Bramton.
Here am I, with a spic-span new pair of
Highlanders glasses, and I'm blessed if
I could ever see 'em at any part of the
race.'

There is a little knack in distinguishing
colours through a race-glass,' said
Ranksborow ; ' you will soon get into it.
And now, Mr Bramton, you must come
with me, and walk across and say something
pretty to Stubber. Quite the
correct thing, I assure you, and I must
say he has done your colt every justice.'

Oh ! well,' said Mr Bramton, ' I shall
be only too happy, if it's the correct thing.
I'm always anxious to do the correct thing,
your lordship.'

The Earl had given his hack over to his
room while he made his modest lunch
at the Bramtons' carriage. Making a sign
to the lad to follow him, he and his entertainer

now walked off in search of the
trainer, upon meeting whom Mr Bramton
was destined to be still further astonished.
Lord Ranksborow shook hands
with Stubber, congratulated him upon
landing the Julyss, and complimented him
upon the condition of his horse, winding
up by saying, —

I have brought Mr Bramton to talk
to you.'

Hope you're satisfied, sir,' said Stubber,
as he touched his hat.

It's the correct thing to be affable ;
all the swells do it, I see,' muttered Mr
Bramton, sotto voce, * so here goes. How
d'ye do, Stubber } Very glad to see you,
Stubber. You do Damocles great creditor
Damocles does you, which is it ? 'Pon
my word, I don't know ; but if you'll just
come across to my carriage we'll have a
glass of champagne over this.'

Yes, and a right good glass, too,'
chimed in the Earl. ' You ought to
drink Mr Bramton's health on his first
appearance on the Heath,' and with these

VOL. I. Q

words the Earl signalled to his groom
to bring up his hack, and left Mr
Bramton and his trainer to celebrate
their victory.

Have you heard lately from Captain
Cuxwold ? ' asked Lucy, as her father and
Lord Ranksborow left the carriage.

Not very lately,' replied Flood. ' But
why don't you apply to headquarters ? '
and Alec jerked his head in the direction
of the retreating Earl.

I was wondering only the other day,'
replied Lucy, ' whether he was connected
with the Ranksborow family.'

Pretty closely,' rejoined Flood, laughing
; ' he is a son. I wonder you didn't
guess that long ago. Surely you knew
he was the Honourable Captain Cuxwold,
at Cairo ? '

No,' replied Lucy. ' I only knew that
he was Captain Cuxwold ; then, again, we
have only known Lord Ranksborow and
his family quite lately, and I must plead
guilty to being supremely ignorant about
the peerage. It was . only the other day

that I knew Lord Ranksborow's family
name. But you have not answered my
question ? '

I heard from Jack not long ago. Of
course you know he was up with Sir
Gerald Graham at Suakim, and you must
have read in the papers what the fighting
was like up there.'

Terrible,' rejoined Lucy ; ' but I had
no idea Captain Cuxwold was in the midst
of all that carnage.'

Yes ; it was pretty hard fighting.
These Arabs are splendid fellows, and
fight like wild cats ; but they are likely
to see plenty more of it before all is over.
We've sent Gordon to Khartoum, and
he is besieged there. We are in honour
bound to go to his relief, and, what's
more, the outcry in the country is getting
so strong that Government cannot put
off sending an expedition much longer.
It doesn't much matter where they start
from, but there'll be bitter fighting in the
desert between that and Khartoum. But
see, they are going down for another race.

Do you take much interest in this sort of
thing ? '

Yes, I do,' she replied, as she stood
up in the carriage, with flushed cheeks
and sparkling eyes, though how she could
look so excited, considering how little she
knew about it, was singular. It is possible
she was thinking more about the perils of
the Soudan than the mimic warfare of the
racecourse. ^ How I do wish we had a
horse of our own running in this.'

Alec Flood had never been suspected
of taking any very great interest in turf
matters, but this afternoon he spent
watching the racing closely from the box
of the Bramtons' carriage.

END OF VOL. I.

COI.STON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

SI

1/

I

3 0112 042045051

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

Theft, mo tilo»io„, and under , in j na of books are reasons
the ££££r ° Clio " ^ """ — * *— « <ro m
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

University OF .LL.NQIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

VOL. II.

a

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS.

A NO VEL.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

BRF.EZIE LANGTON,' ' A FALSE START,' 'CLEVERLY WON,

'THE OUTSIDER,' 'THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1889.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/longoddsnovel02smar

CONTENTS.

CHAP. PAGE

I. — What Newmarket did for Them, . i

II. — Abu Klea and Abu Kru, . . 15

III. — Lost in the Desert, . 30

IV.— Turf Tactics, 46

V. — ' I'll make Love to One,' . . 60

VI. — Another Bid for Damocles, . . 75

VII. — Front De Bce uf, 90

VIII. — Front De Boeuf's Little Bill, . 107

IX. — ' I SHALL NEVER FORGET YOU, ZELNE,' 122

X. — Reported Missing, . . . .137

XI. — ' What Nonsense You talk,' . . 151

XII. — Mr Noel lays Long Odds, . .166

XIII. — Lord Dartree's Mistake, . .181

XIV. — English Horses vers l s Arabs, . 196

XV. — 'The Mummer,' . . . .210

XVI. — Chaffed into a Match, . . .224

Now ready, in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2s.

A ho now ready, in cloth gilt, 35. 6d. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
A SIEGE BABY. By the same Author.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs Edward

Kennard. Also picture boards, 2s.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.' Also,

picture boards, 2s.
MONA'S CHOICE. By the same Author.

KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Also, picture boards 2s.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
TWILIGHT TALES. By the same Author. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Fraser.
THE CRUSADE OF 'THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.

F. Y. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

Errata.

VOL. II.

Page 16, line 4, for ' would hold,' read ' will hold.'

„ 17, „ 11, for ' That the limit of time &c, &c, read ' That the limit
of time to which Gordon has alleged his ability to hold out is
rapidly drawing to a close the chiefs of the expedition arc
painfully aware. That it will be a very close thing, march
rapidly as they may, is perfectly clear, and that should success
crown the toils of the column, it will only be by a very narrow
margin is certain.'

,, 17, line 22, for ' showed,' read ' shows.'

„ 84, „ 20, for « bid read ' bit.'

„ 149, „ 15, for ' and that I am,' &c, read ' and I am,' &c.

„ 161, „ 16, for ' to look at it read ' to hear it.'

~v.^ „uu vu aciuuin, ana mat when

they did, they were as a rule as unbacked

as their prototype at the roulette board.

He was sauntering at the post office one
VOL. II. A

Now ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

picture boards, 2s.

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

t -* k <« nf ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also

CHAPTER I.

WHAT NEWMARKET DID FOR THEM.

Young Tom Robbins had after his wont
still further decreased his store during the
July meeting. Weak in judgment, he was
always pursuing that ignis fatuus of backers
the backing of something at long odds
so as to win a handsome stake at once,
although experience might have taught
him that, like the zero at roulette, these
outsiders won very seldom, and that when
they did, they were as a rule as unbacked
as their prototype at the roulette board.
He was sauntering at the post office one
vol. n. a

morning, having despatched his usual telegram
concerning the morning gallops to
the paper he was employed on, when he
ran across Mr Napper.

Ah ! Tom, my boy,' said that gentleman,
' how goes it ? Anything new on
the Heath this morning?'

'No,' replied the other; ' nothing has
broke down that I've heard of. There
was a trial of some kind on the Bury
side, but I couldn't make anything out
of it. What are you up to ? '

1 Well, I'm off to town,' replied Mr
Napper. ' There's a matter of business
that a London firm is working for us,
and they've sent down for fuller information,
and as I am well up in the case,
my employers thought the best thing they
could do w r as to send me up to talk it
over with them, and I've just wired to
say I'm on my way. I say. did you ever
have a look at your father's will ? '

1 No,' replied Tom ; ' it hardly seemed
good enough to go to town about.'

Well, I don't know that it is,' replied

Mr Napper, ! but, as I said to you before,
I consider it is worth paying a shilling to
see. Stop, I'll tell you what I'll do. I
shall have a little time to spare. I'll go
and see it for you if you like.'

1 I wish you would, like a good fellow,'
replied Tom Robbins.

'All right, old chappie. I'll look up
the old 'un's last testament, never fear ;
and now I'm off. By-by.'

Mr Napper was a very astute, crafty
young gentleman — one of those young
gentlemen who, as the saying goes, are
'quite too clever to live.' Quite too sharp
to last is a better rendering of it, for such
men, by their extreme scepticism with regard
to their neighbours, are apt to overreach
themselves. He was a pushing,
active, energetic little fellow, anxious to
come by money, honestly if he could, but,
above all, to come by money. To his
clerkship in the solicitor's office at Newmarket
he added the post of special agent
there for his uncle, Mr James Noel. To
have said that he was James Noel's tout

would have made him very indignant, but
for all that he was only a high development
of this order as regards his uncle.
He had not the time, nor would it have
suited with his other position that he
should have been amongst the ordinary
gang of horse-watchers, but for all that
there was no important trial took place
at Newmarket that Mr Napper was not
acquainted with the results pretty well as
soon as the touts — usually more accurately
informed than many of them, such
as Tom Robbins, to wit. Mr Noel was
no niggard of his old when useful information
was brought to him, and this
enabled Sim Napper to be liberal, and
as Sim's speculations were usually of a
very modest character, the horse-watchers
thought there could be no harm in what
they told him ; and, what was still more
to the point, some of the stable boys
were equally communicative, with a due
regard to the five shillings which rewarded
any little bit of equine scandal deemed
worthy of note.

In the course of the day Sim Napper
found time to call at Somerset House, and
examine the will of the late Richard Brandon,
and he was not a little astonished
upon mastering its contents.

Well,' he muttered to himself, ' you
were quite right, Tom ; it wasn't worth
your while coming up to London to look
at it. It don't benefit you, nor can I see
it will be ever likely to, even if you could
lay hands on your mother's marriage certificate
; but we are all out of it, too.
John Bramton, apparently, hasn't come
into a shilling:. It all goes ^ the young
woman. She is worth picking up. Somebody
told me the Miss Bramtons were
very pretty girls. Now that codicil, I
wonder whether there's anything to be
done with that ? Let's look at it again.'

" By my said will I have left all my
racehorses to my niece Lucy Bramton ;
and whereas some of these may be
engaged in important stakes, and others
untried at my death, and so their value

not known, I therefore think they ought
to be kept in training for a year or two ;
and I now authorise executors of this my
will, during the minority of my said niece
Lucy, to carry on the training of such
horses, paying the cost of the same out
of the annual income of my estate.
" Signed, sealed, and delivered," etc.

Now. this is a bit of information that
might be useful to my Uncle Jim. I
can't say I see exactly how, but that's
his business. There is one thing pretty
clear, that all this talk about Mr Bramton
selling Damocles is moonshine. I don't
believe he can, according to this. At
all events, I should say he can't sell him
this year. It would raise a beautiful
point if it was ever in dispute.'

From Somerset House Mr Napper
went across to the Victoria Club, and
called upon his uncle, James Noel. He
found the boot maker in, and over the
lunch which the latter proffered, told him
of his recent discovery.

'No; you're right, Sim,' said Mr
Noel. ' I don't see much to be made
out of it ; but it's curious the first
favourite for the Derby being the property
of a lady. As you say, it does
away with all these reports about Damocles
being for sale. You may be pretty
certain that he won't leave his present
stable.'

Leaving Mr Noel to comitate on the
information Mr Napper had brought him,
we must now turn round and see what
came of the July week to some of the
other people in this veracious narrative.
The Bramtons were one and all delighted
with their first experience of racing. It
had been, indeed, a very pleasant day's
outing as far as they were concerned.
They had carried off the big prize of
the day, and Mr Bramton, thanks to the
Earl of Ranksborow, had attracted some
little attention. The Earl had introduced
him to several young men, prefacing his
introduction with the aside, ' Has got the
two prettiest daughters and the best glass

of champagne on the Heath. If he asks
you to lunch, go.'

Mr Bramton was the soul of hospitality,
and the consequence was his daughters
had quite a little court of young men,
who thought there was no pleasant way
of repaying hospitality than by flirting
with the young ladies ; and though Lucy
seemed somewhat absorbed in Alec Flood,
yet Matilda showed herself quite equal
to the occasion, and coquetted gaily with
her sister's as well as her own admirers.
Mr Bramton, indeed, was exceedingly
pleased with his debut on the turf. Not
only had he thoroughly enjoyed himself,
but so far it was a very money-making
business to boot. The whole party, indeed,
left Newmarket extremely well satisfied
with themselves. True Mr Bramton.
figuring in the position of owning the
winner of the Julyss, fell into divers mistakes
in attempting to show Damocles to
his new acquaintance — pointing out as
Damocles various horses that were not
the least like him, except, perhaps, in

the matter of colour. Mr Bramton found
it very difficult to distinguish one racehorse
from another ; but with all his
elation, he was too shrewd a man to
pledge himself to Lord Ranksborow, and
parried that nobleman's craftily-worded
request very cleverly. The Earl had
said to him, in airy fashion, after the
Julyss —

Now, Bramton, make our minds easy ;
all Barkshire, like myself, is on your
horse for next year's Derby. Promise
us one thing, that you won't sell him.'

Oh ! I couldn't do that. It ain't
business, you know. You're bound to
realise, you know, when things touch the
top of the market. It's a great sport
no doubt, my lord, but I don't know
that it is altogether prudent to keep so
much capital locked up in what is very
perishable property.'

It was no use. Try as he might, the
Earl could get no positive assurance
from John Bramton that he would not
part with the horse. On the contrary,

he was apparently inclined to do so should
he be offered an outside price for him,
and that Bramton had arrived at a much
clearer idea of the value of Damocles
than when Mr Skinner first endeavoured
to buy him, was manifest. Now the Earl
knew perfectly well that there were some
three or four wealthy young men who had
just appeared on the turf, and who would
be quite willing to spend a lot of money in
the hope of winning their first Derby. He
discerned that it was hopeless to arouse
any ambition of that sort in the owner of
Damocles ; and the consequence was that
he lived in daily dread of hearing that
noble animal had changed hands. He had
great confidence in Stubber as far as he
went, he thoroughly believed in his ability
and honesty ; the only doubt he had, was
he able to cope with such an unscrupulous
practitioner as James Noel Lord Ranks-brow
had been far too long on the turf
to think that those connected with it were
of necessity scoundrels, but of course these
exist, as they do in all other vocations.

Nothing definite had ever been alleged
against James Noel, but it certainly was
curious that horses he laid heavily against
were very liable to mishaps, and from the
outset he had been a most persistent
opposer of Damocles for the Epsom race.
Lucy had so far, on one occasion only,
had to remind her father of the existence
of the codicil, and had never shown him
the opinion Mr Pecker had obtained upon
it. John Bramton from the first had pooh-poohed
the paragraph. He considered
it merely expressed a wish ; in fact it was
more a guide for himself as trustee than
anything else. His brother, knowing that
he had no knowledge of the value of racing
stock, was simply anxious that his
horses should not be sold for about half
what they were worth ; but so long as his
daughter was a minor, he conceived that
he had the power to do as he thought
best about the disposal of the stud.
Lawyers always did make such a fuss
about things. As Pecker had said, the
question was hardly likely to arise, as Miss

Lucy would doubtless be guided by her
father in such a matter. True she had
opposed the sale of Damocles to Lord
Ranksborow, but then the result had
justified the opposition, and went to show
that Lucy at that time, thanks to her
late uncle's instructions, was a better judge
of the value of thorough-bred stock than
he was, but that she would ever seriously
oppose what he thought right to do never
entered his head.

John Bramton had gone through two or
three different phases of thought on the
subject of his brother's stud. His first
impulse had been to sell them all ; then
came the stage of great misgivings, when
he first discovered that the horses were
so very much more valuable than he had
deemed them ; then came the distinction
of being the supposed owner of a racing
crack, which suited a fussy, pompous manlike
himself exactly ; then, again, came the
old trading instinct, which told him it was
absurd to keep ten thousand pounds locked
up in the form of a horse, and he was told

that Damocles was worth that at the
present moment. It was useless pointing
out to him that the horse would probably
win as much as that before he was a
year older. That, in Bramton's eyes, was
sheer gambling — it might or might not be
so ; he might fall a victim to any of the
ills that horse-flesh is heir to ; he might
be beaten, and thus decrease in value.
Nobody had offered him ten thousand
pounds for Damocles as yet, and although
John Bramton was not quite prepared to
accept such an offer right off, he was
certainly quite prepared to think it over ;
and I fancy most prudent men would say
that he was right. Lucy, on the other
hand, had in the first instance been influenced
simply by a desire to comply with
her uncle's last wish. She would have
said, ' Do what you like with the rest, but
let me keep Damocles ; ' but now that she
had tasted all the eclat of being a successful
owner of racehorses, she was by no
means disposed to abandon the position.
She was so delighted with the glories of

the July week that, had it not been too
late, she would have expostulated with her
father about the sale of the other horses.
As it was, she was determined strenuously
to oppose any idea of parting with those
that remained. It was true that the world
regarded Damocles as the property of her
father, but that did not signify. She asher
father's daughter got quite her share
of the honour and glory, and she was
firmly convinced that racing in fine weather
was the perfection of sports ; and, moreover,
the girl did take, what none of the
rest of the family did, a genuine interest in
the sport itself.

ABU Plea AND ABU Ru.

The low growling of the country have

at length deepened to a roar, and the

Government no longer dare vacillate

about making one supreme effort to save

the soldier whom they had hitherto left

to his fate in Khartoum. Precious time

had been lost, but what has been aptly

termed the ' Campaign of the Cataracts,'

had at length begun. By day and night

the procession of boats swept by, bearing

the miscellaneous force who were straining

every nerve to reach the leagued city

wherein,

1 Like a roebuck at bay,
Flouts our Great Soldier the Moslem array.'

Closely beset though Gordon is, despatches
are yet occasionally received
from him, which mention with quiet
decision how long his food would hold
out, and at the same time state with
equal directness that to escape is now
impossible, and that, his provisions once
exhausted, there is nothing left him but
to die sword in hand.

And leaving in battle no blot on his name,
Look proudly to heaven, from his deathbed of fame

Night and day the boats struggle on up
the famous river, rowing, sailing, tugging,
amidst the laughter, cries, and, I
am afraid, occasionally curses, of the
soldiers, voyageurs, and natives, tumbling
up cataracts, goodness knows how, sometimes
turning over, and still somehow, a
great mass of men and material, makes
its way up the old mysterious stream to
the rendezvous of Korti. Not a man of
them all but knows that they have much
hardship, hard fare, and hard fighting
before they see the walls of Khartoum ;

but what reck they of that ? The sole
thought in all men's mind is, ' Shall we
be in time?' Hard work it has been
to reach Korti, and everybody knows
now that Lord Wolseley has decided
upon the daring expedient of a dash
across the desert, from that point. Still
there is much to be done before Sir
Herbert Stewart's force is sufficiently
victualled and organised to proceed on
its way. That the limit of time to which
Gordon had alleged his ability to hold out
was rapidly drawing to a close, the chiefs
of the expedition are painfully aware.
That it will be a very close thing, march
rapidly as they may, was perfectly clear,
and that, should success crown the toils
of the column, it would only be by a very
narrow margin, was certain. That the
Arabs should have allowed the Wells of
Jakdul to be seized upon without resistance,
showed a supineness on their part so
contrary to the energy and activity they
had displayed in the neighbourhood of
Suakim, as to astonish our leaders not a

VOL. II. B

a

little. Subsequent events showed that
they were probably taken by surprise,
and were far from expecting a relieving
force to advance from that direction ; but
as soon as they did understand it, that
we were not to have a peaceful promenade
to Metammeh, they gave speedy and
vigorous proof. However, all is ready
at last; another hour, and Sir Herbert
Stewart and his soldiers will plunge into
the desert.

Standing at the door of one of the tents,
and looking, with a mingled expression
of disgust and amusement on his face, at
the stubborn vagaries of a contumacious
camel, stands Jack Cuxwold. If he had
made rather light of the Egyptian campaign
when we last saw him, at Cairo,
he had seen his predictions fulfilled, and
enough stern and bitter fighting since then
to satisfy most men. He, like his comrades,
had carried his life in his hand many
a time, in that ceaseless battling with the
irrepressible Osman Digma, in the scrub
round Suakim. His tall figure looked

somewhat leaner that when we last saw
it, and his face is burnt by the desert sun to
a red brick colour. A puggaree is wound
round his pith helmet ; and he wears a
sort of grey Norfolk jacket, with collar
a la guillotine ; high boots ; and a waist-belt,
from which hang his revolver and
sabre, complete his attire. But the man
looks all wire and whipcord, and, if somewhat
thinner, apparently none the worse
for his campaigning, so far.

1 Well, we never know what we may
come to,' he mutters. ' When I joined
the 24th Lancers, I certainly never dreamt
of riding a brute like that ; and a more
obstinate, pig-headed devil, or one more
uncomfortable to ride, I don't suppose
exists on the face of the globe. A mule!
why, a mule is a park hack compared to
him. I should just like to give Dart a
mount on one. He can ride a bit, and
thinks he can ride a good bit more ; but I
think he'd own a camel was hard to hold,
when it came to a difference of opinion
with his rider. Well ! we shouldn't like

to have been left out of it, though it is
rather rough to send a smart Lancer
regiment into the desert, mounted on
beasts like that, their one redeeming
quality being a capacity of going without
water four or five days.'

Ugly and obstinate the ship of the
desert may be, but of a verity the campaign
of the Soudan made a very hecatomb
of his race.

Covered by a small body of horsemen,
the long column winds its weary way
across the desert, until it arrived at the
Wells of Jakdul. No sign of the Arabs
as yet, but, for all that, the leaders in the
expedition relax no whit in their vigilance.
Soon after leaving the Wells, the
horsemen scouting in front report the
presence of small parties of Arabs, apparently
watching their advance. Warily
the column presses forward, and soon the
dragoons gallop back from the front, and
report large masses of the enemy moving
in the scrub. Still pushing forward
ever onward, for every man in that

force knows that the hours are precious,
the soldiers toil on under the blazing
sun, and eke out their limited supply of
water as best they may. Then comes
the news that the Arabs are massing in
their front ; the column halts, forms up,
and, after a little, once more advances
in an echelon of squares. They are not
left much longer in doubt about the
enemy's proceedings. Already the horsemen
covering the advance have ridden
in ; a few minutes more, and the scrub
becomes alive with the Arab host, who
came on like a tidal wave, surging,
shrieking, and brandishing their spears.
Down go the deadly freeholders, and
as, in response to the bugle call, the
withering roll of musketry commences,
the daring fanatics fall in scores, and
their spirits are wafted to that Paradise
where they imagine the dark-eyed houris
are awaiting them. As the wave recoils
from the rock-bound coast, so the Arabs
recoil from the stubborn, impenetrable
squares of the British infantry. Bayonets

are red, and swords drip blood, but still
the dauntless Moslems, like the ocean
surf repelled — like that ocean surf return
again and again to the charge. Many of
England's best and bravest are down,.
with their life-blood drenching the desert
sands, and amongst them poor Fred Bur-nay,
as gallant a soldier as ever died
a warrior's death. But the onslaught
gets slacker and slacker, and at last the
Arabs sullenly retire from their hopeless
efforts to break those obstinate squares,
leaving the ground around them strewn
with the dead and dying.

The battle is over, and the conquerors
are now left to count the cost of their
hard-earned victory. The leaders look
with grim dismay at the gaps in the
ranks of their little band. They have
still far to go, and they are likely to have
much more such fighting before they
once more strike the waters of the Nile ;
but their triumph has given them the
Wells of Abu Klea.

They are but a handful to accomplish

this task, and yet it would have been
scarce possible to have carried water fora
larger number. Jack Cuxwold, black
with powder but all unhurt, looks grimly-down
at a lithe, powerful young Arab,
whose shade his sabre has sent to the
realms of bliss.

'A real good-plucked one,' he muttered,
as he gazed upon the fine wild
dark features of his fallen foe, who, reckless
of life, had fought his way into the
square. ' Well, they all are ; they fight
like wild cats.' And then, sad to say,
the Honourable Jack's thoughts assume
a more material form, and, turning to one
of his brother officers, he remarked, —

It was pretty hot while it lasted,
Checquers. I don't know how you feel,
but I'd give a tenner for a pot of beer ! '

Yes, it was pretty lively,' observed
the young gentleman addressed. ' Yes,
Jack, it will be a subject of life-long
regret to think of that magnificent thirst
that we enjoyed in the Soudan, and which
had to remain ungratified. I've been only

able to allow myself two mouthfuls of
water to take the dust out of my mouth
after that " little kickup." '

Yes,' replied Jack, 'and, after all, we've
only won the first round, and not the fight.
We have given those fellows a terrible
dusting, but they take their punishment
like men, and will have another shy at
us before we reach Metammeh.'j

On the column moves again, slowly
making its toilsome way, now over the
sandy ridges, now through the low scrub,
men perspiring, camels grunting, and
anxious inquiries passing from mouth to
mouth as to how long it will be before
they reach the next wells. Misers there
are who dole out the drops from their
water-bottles a teaspoonful at a time,
spendthrifts who have long ago emptied
theirs, and who are fain to chew bullets,
stones, or bits of the dry scrub, to produce
saliva and allay the fierce thirst
that possesses them. The scouts ever
and anon report that the Arabs in small
parties are watching their movements

closely. Once more water is reached,
there is a halt of some hours, and then
the march is once more resumed. A long
tedious night tramp, with dire misgivings
that the guides have either lost their way
or are purposely misleading them. Once
more the order is given to halt, the zareba
is formed, and preparation is made for
the night. The scouts report that the
Arabs are gatherings thick in their front.
They surely cannot be far from the river
now. Ah ! it is plain. The enemy has
intercepted them, and intends to make
them fight once more before they get to
the water. It is the battle of the other
day over again. Once more, led on by
their sheikhs, who are chanting texts from
the Koran, with loud cries, the Arabs
come dauntlessly on. Once more rings
out the ceaseless fire of the freeholder,
and the deep growling of the Gatling.
The Moslems charge home with all the
reckless contempt of death characteristic
of their creed, and strew the ground like
autumn leaves, while many of them are

killed at the very edge of the square, and
some few of them even inside.

But the leaden hail tells at last, the
fierce rushes get weaker and weaker, and
finally the enemy retires sullenly, bearing
with him as many as he can of his
wounded. Victors once more, but, alack !
at a terrible price. Stewart, their gallant
leader, is severely wounded, destined, sad
to say, never to recover from his injuries.
And many another good man and true
rocks little now as to whether Khartoum
is reached in time or no ; many of them,
perchance, aware by this that their efforts
have been all in vain. A consultation
takes place between the chiefs of the expedition,
and it is determined that the
wounded, under a strong guard, shall be
left in the zareba, and the remainder of
the force shall fight its way to the river.
On they push, the Arabs firing sullenly
at them from the scrub. But the fight
is out of the foe. He no longer charges
in his old dashing fashion up to the very
face of the square, and as the breech-leaders

search the scrub, he flies from his
cover to a safer distance.

At last the river lies glittering before
them, and, camping on its banks, they
prepare to indulge in the luxury of water
unlimited. Gordon's steamers are there,
and the men in charge of them protest
that Khartoum still holds out. All will
be known now in a very few hours. Sir
Robert Wilson, Lord Charles Beresford,
and a handful of soldiers and sailors are
to embark in those steamers at daybreak
the next morning. In the meantime, the
sick, wounded in hospitals, and baggage,
have all been brought from the zareba
down to the encampment on the riverbank,
and now it became necessary to
send back a messenger with despatches
to the Commander-in-chief, informing him
of their having gained the river, — of
Gordon's reported safety, to say nothing
of that dread list of killed and wounded
that always accompanies the news of victories
; and the man selected for this
purpose was Jack Cuxwold. He was provided

with a picked dromedary, and he
was to take an ample supply of food and
water. It was not anticipated that he
would meet any Arabs on his way back
to Korti, but of course he might come
across a wandering party. Still, so far as
they knew, he ran no more risk than such
a messenger might expect to encounter.
Jack cursed his luck. At first it seemed
to him nothing but a long, dreary, and
solitary ride. He was a man of gregarious
habits, and did not at all appreciate
campaigning by himself. Still, in the old
campaigning phrase, ' It was all in the
day's work ; ' he had got the order, and
the thing had got to be done.

1 Don't pity you a bit, Jack,' remarked
young Checquers. ' It'll give you a grand
time for mental reflection, and a splendid
opportunity to think over the errors of your
career ; besides, if you can't tell his lordship
what gallant service you've rendered
in the recent battles, who can, I should
like to know ? I only wish I had such a
chance to hold forth on my own merits.'

1 Oh, don't be a fool, Checquers,' was
the curt rejoinder.

1 No, this child ain't much of one,' was
the reply ; ' but, joking apart, Jack, don't
you know that the bearers of despatches
generally get something out of it ? The
chances are you will too, old man.'

Cuxwold brightened up at this, and at
once commenced his few preparations for
departure.

LOST IN THE DESERT.

A couple of hours later, and Jack Cuxwold,
having received his despatches, mounts his
dromedary, and once more strikes across
the Nubian desert. He is accompanied
by Checquers, who, mounted on a camel,
proposes to see him fairly on his way.

1 Well, they've done the handsome thing
for you,' observed that young gentleman,
1 and picked you out one of the thoroughbred
ones. Those dromedaries can go a rare
pace when they're put to it ; not like this lumbering
old brute of mine. The only thing
I fancy is that they jolt you pretty well all
to pieces, when you put 'em into a trot.'

1 Fancy they do,' replied Jack ; ' and, as
my orders are to lose no time on the way,

I shall doubtless be pretty well bumped to
pieces before I reach Korti.'

Well, old fellow, it'll be a pretty dull
ride ; but you'll have a chat at the Wells
of Jakdul with the people we've left
there. As for us, I suppose you'll find
us in Khartoum when you get back.'

I don't think so,' said Jack.
1 Whether we've been in time to same
Gordon or not we don't yet know ; but
we can't do more than bring him off.
We can't maintain ourselves at Khartoum,
on account of our want of supplies.'

1 Right you are,' said Checquers. ' I
never thought of that. I suppose we shall
have to tramp our way back across this
blessed old sea of sand, with our Arab
friends making it as lively for us as ever.'

1 Quite likely. Now I think you had
better turn back. I'm going to push on,
and, I take it, you won't be able to keep
up with this dromedary. I'm told he can
really go a good pace, and keep it up.'

Yes,' replied Checquers. ' I know
that fellow by sight. He is the best thing

in the camel line we've got amongst us.
They tell me, over a distance, that breed
will wear down any horse.'

'True,' said Jack; 'and one great pull
is that, going fast, these fellows make such
good time between the wells, that you
don't require to carry much water.'

Well, good-bye, and God bless you ! r
exclaimed the other ; ' hope you'll have a
pleasant ride,' and, with a hearty hand-grip,
the two men separated.

Checquers looked after his friend for a
few minutes, but Cuxwold put his dromedary
to its speed, and the animal at once
broke into the long shambling run peculiar
to his race, which, if not graceful to look at,
nevertheless carries them over the ground
at a considerable rate, and Jack soon became
a mere shadow in the distance.

Hope he'll pull through all right,'
muttered Checquers to himself. ' I shall
feel awful bad if my captain leaves his
bones in the desert. He is much too
good a fellow for that ; and, of course,
there's always the chance of his falling in

with a small band of Arabs — beggars who
would cut his throat for fun, let alone to
become the possessors of that dromedary ;'
and thus ruminating, Mr Checquers, keeping
his * eyes pretty well skinned,' to use
his own expression, made the best of his
way back to camp.

It was night ; the heavens were gemmed
in all their jewellery ; the moon,
though not yet fairly risen, cast its soft
light over the shadowless desert, as Jack
Cuxwold sped onward on his way. If
ever a man would think, it would be
upon such a solitary ride as this. The
time, the mighty silence, the great sandy
waste, and, above all, the stirring scenes
in which his life had been lately passed,
all combined to make Cuxwold look
back upon his past life not a little seriously.
What a time it seemed since he
had left England ! and yet it was not
such a very long time ago either. Between
two and three years, that was all.
He thought of them all at Knightshayes,
and wondered what they were all doing.
vol. 11. c

Dartree was not much of a correspondent :
the last letter he had from him he was full
of his steeplechases. He wondered how
he was getting on with them. It was the
winter season now — just the time for
them, and the hunting. How he should
like a good gallop with the West Bark-shire.
And then he thought of the luxury
of bestriding a thoroughbred horse, in lieu
of this rough-going ' ship of the desert '
that he was at present riding. He wondered
what sort of a year his father and
brother had had racing. Really, the most
news he had had about his own family,
was contained in a letter from Flood. In
it he had reminded him of the scene in
the gambling-house at Cairo, — of Dick
Bramton's last message to his niece, ' to
take care of Damocles.' 'It is a curious
thing,' wrote Flood, ' that I happened
to be at Newmarket, and saw that
distinguished animal win the Julyss. I
further made the acquaintance of all the
Bramton family, including, of course, our
provide of Cairo, who asked a good deal

about you. It seems your noble father
and Dartree have backed Damocles, at
long odds, for next year's Derby. The
Earl, indeed, stands to win an immense
stake on him. The poor fellow we saw
killed at Cairo was rather a racing pal of
Lord Ranksborow's, and he's in agonies
now as to what John Bramton means todo
with that colt. John Bramton, you
must know, has bought Temple Rising,
and, so to speak, established himself at
the doors of Knightshayes. He seems a
good-tempered, hospitable old vulgarian,
and though he may know nothing about
racing, your father told me he was a
very sharp man of business, and that he
thought nobody would get the best of
him, either on the turf or anywhere else.'
The letter then went on with sundry
inquiries as to whether there was any
chance of their speedily finishing up the
Soudan campaign, which, as we are already
in possession of Mr Flood's views
respecting that embroglio, it is not necessary
to particularise.

Jack Cuxwold thought a good deal over
this letter, as he rode on. So that pretty
girl with the golden-red hair and blue
eyes hadn't quite forgotten him. He
thought of that one letter he had received
from her ; and to think she was established
at Temple Rising. Of course, he
knew the place well ; he had been often
there, in the days when it belonged to
his father's friend, poor old Molyneux.
By Jove ! ' he thought, ' it ought to be a
warning to the governor. He and Dart
have a weakness for plunging, and between
'em, if they don't mind, they'll bring
Knightshayes to the hammer. Of course,
it can't personally be of much importance
to me ; but I'm fond of the old place. I
should be awfully cut up to see it go out
of the family. It's an awful business to
think of Temple Rising going away from
the Molyneuxs. Alec don't give a very
flattering account of their successors ; but
Lucy, the one that was at Cairo, was as
pretty, ladylike a girl as ever I met.

Jack, who had been travelling for some

hours, now thought it advisable to halt fora
little, and refresh both himself and his
beast ; and here he made two discoveries,
which scattered his reflections to the
winds. The first of these was, that the
large goat-skin which had contained his
water, leaked, and that it was now well-nigh
exhausted. True, he had his water-bottle,
but that was a marvellously short
supply upon which to rely until he reached
the Abu Klea Wells. The second discovery
— hardly to be called a discovery
indeed, as yet — was the dread suspicion
that he had somehow missed his way.
Once get off the route, and it is as easy to
lose your way in the desert as to lose your
reckoning on the ocean. You are at once
placed in the position of men who have
abandoned their ship, and taken to their
boats. You know not how long you may
wander about before help comes to you,
but you do know that your food and
water will only last so long, and that if
help come not to you within that time,
or thereabouts, you will be past praying

for. The bones of men and beasts have
blanched before now on the desert sands,
simply because they were out in their
reckoning. To these lost ones it had
come that they must reach water or
perish, and they had perished.

Jack had heard plenty of such stories.
Few people that have ever crossed the
desert but have heard such narratives.
The route is, of course, well-known ; but
still, get but a mile off the track, and it is
very easy to make a serious mistake in
your efforts to return to it. Jack might
well look grave at the situation. First
and foremost, if he did not fail, he would
be, at all events, slow in the doing of his
errand, and that, in a bearer of despatches,
is unpardonable ; secondly, death by thirst
was a mode of leaving this world that
nobody would willingly select. Jack Cuckold
sat quietly down to think the thing
out. Now it so happened that he had a
small compass attached to his watch chain,
and though perhaps not very reliable, it
would, he thought, give him a general

knowledge of his bearings ; but then, the
worst of it was, he had a very hazy idea
of what his course ought to be, and he
was quite conscious that much inaccuracy
on this point might cost him his life.
However, he was soon mounted on his
dromedary, and commenced his endeavours
to recover the track.

The moon was by this time fading from
the hills ; the stars twinkled like expiring
rush lights, and then went out. It was the
dark hour before the dawn ; and, as Jack
wandered aimlessly along, he felt that he
had been foolish, — that it would have been
better, both for him and his animal, to
have rested until the rising sun had enabled
him to take a calm survey of —

1 Those sands, by the seas never shaken,
Nor wet from the washing of tides.'

There was not much to be done till the
day dawned ; and when, like a ball of fire,
it showed above the distant horizon, Jack
Cuxwold was fain to confess that he was
lost in the desert. According to his calculation,
he should by this have been somewhere

in the vicinity of their first fight
with the Arabs, and, if that were the case,
there would still remain all the debris of the
fray ; and though the vultures, after the
manner of the wild dogs, had doubtless

Stripped the flesh
As you peel the fig, when the fruit is fresh,'

yet the bleaching skeletons of both men
and animals would mark the scene of that
fierce encounter ; but no, there was not a
sign,— nothing but that waste of low scrub
and sand. The sun rose higher in the
heavens, and again and again did his eyes
rove over the pitiless desert, in the hope
of recognising some object that might recall
to him his whereabouts. Not a rock,
not a boulder, nothing could he recognise ;
there was nothing but that monotonous
waste of arid sand or stunted scrub.
Swell after swell did he surmount of that
dreary plain, but all to no end. More
than one sandhill did he ascend, only to
see the same prospect on all sides of him.
The heat had become intolerable, and
his thirst was maddening. He dared not

take a thorough good draught, but was
forced to moisten his lips with a few drops
from his water-bottle. In vain he pursued
the course, which, by his compass, he
thought would lead him to Korti ; but he
was off the track, and could see nothing
which he recognised as having passed on
his way up. A horse will find his way in
the darkness, or when his rider is perfectly
unable to do so. If instinct served horses
in such straits, why should it not serve
camels ? He would leave it to the dromedary
; but that hapless brute did not apparently
rise to the occasion, and, after
wandering aimlessly about for a couple
of hours, Jack came to the conclusion
that whatever might be the case with his
race generally, the beast he bestrode was
not gifted with intelligence sufficient to
succour them in their need.

Suddenly he espied a massive boulder
cropping out of the sand. It was some
distance off, but he would make for that.
He did not expect much from it ; it was
very little likely that there was a spring in

its neighbourhood ; but there was one
thing it surely would give, and that was
shade. On one side or the other of it
there must be some protection from the
burning desert sun. His temples throbbed,
his lips were parched, but still onwards he
toiled. One consolation only was that the
patient animal he rode showed no signs of
flagging ; but how was it all to end ?
Like the Israelites of old, he was wandering
aimlessly in the desert. At length he
reached the rock, and, dismounting, took
refuge with his dromedary beneath its
shadow. He had food, but he had little
appetite for it. Water was his great
anxiety ; and to have lost nearly all his
supply in such an untoward manner so
soon after starting, was a terrible mischance.
Jack Cuxwold had looked death
undauntedly in the face several times
during the past two years, but then it
had been in hot blood. The destroyer
had never confronted him in such grisly
fashion as now.

Worn out with his ride, Jack hobbled

his dromedary, indulged himself with a
penurious draught from that widow's cruse,
his water-bottle, and, stretching himself
out, was soon wrapped in a profound
slumber. The sun was still high in the
heavens when he awoke, consumed with
feverish thirst. It did not matter, it had
to be endured ; what little water he had
left must be hoarded to the last extremity.
After due study of his compass, he once
more mounted his beast, and started, not
on his way, but to find it. Three or four
hours' aimless wandering, and then he
espied a small group of rocks which he
thought he recognised. The sun was
sinking to his bed in the west ere he
reached them, only to discover that the
hope he had fostered had probably been
father to the thought. Like the mirage,
they were a deception — no sign of the
track was to be seen from under them ;
and all he could say was that on his way
up he had seen something very like them.
He could stand it no longer ; his thirst
was maddening ; it was no use preserving

that last modicum of water, and,
dismounting, he drained his water-bottle
to the dregs, and laid himself down
under this fresh group of boulders.

When he awoke about daybreak, the
same intolerable thirst possessed him ; his
lips were dry ; his tongue felt as if swollen
to double its size, and to have become perfectly
hard. Jack Cuxwold was no flincher,
but a strange terror crept over him now.
That he was far from the end of his
physical resources he knew. He was
tired, weary, and, to a considerable extent,
exhausted by his exertions, but still more
by the terrible scarcity of water that he
had had to endure under a tropical sun ;
still, he was a long way off being incapable
of exertion. If a good bit beat,
there was a good deal of strength left
in him still. But the thing that frightened
him was that he felt his brain was
going. He was conscious that he was
getting light-headed, and this, too, at a
time when, if ever a man required the full
possession of all his faculties, it was he.

That strange jumble of ideas that is wont
to surge through a man's brain just before
it becomes lost to him, already possessed
him. The days of his boyhood were
mingled with the strife at Abu Klea, the
running of Damocles, the death of Dick
Bramton, and the fair face of his niece.
He was gradually losing all thought of what
he wanted to do, or where he was going.
Why didn't Lucy Bramton let Damocles
go ? What was this hard thing that somebody
had put in his mouth, and that he
could not get rid of ? He attempted to
shout but the words would not come,
1 Great God ! did not Checquers see that
tall Arab, spear in hand, who was bounding
up on his right ? Help him, some of
you, or he'll be killed ! ' And, vainly
striving to utter such incoherent cries,
Jack Cuxwold fell by the side of the
rocks, and relapsed into insensibility.

When he next regained consciousness,
his head was on a woman's lap, and it
was a woman's hand that held the cup
to his blackened lips.

TURF TACTICS.

We must now go back in our story-some
three months, to see what was
happening in England. Mr Bramton
had already justified Lord Ranksborow's
opinion of him, by showing that though
he might know nothing about racing,
he was about as shrewd a business man
as one could come across. He knew
perfectly well that in Damocles he
possessed a very valuable property.
That the colt was the property of his
daughter, was a fact that he was apt to
forget ; not that he in the slightest degree
wished to deprive Lucy of one
shilling that might accrue to her, butin

all his experience, business affairs had
been the prerogative of men. He could
not understand a woman interfering in
such transactions. He was quite willing
to admit that he was only his daughter's
steward — and one more alive to her
interests no woman need wish to possess
; but then John Bramton wished to
be a steward of the most autocratic type.
He would manage Lucy's affairs to the
very best of his ability, but it must
be in his own way. Women knew nothing
of business ; and though Lucy was
still an infant in the eye of the law,
that made very little difference to John
Bramton. Had she been five-and-thirty,
as long as she was unmarried, he would
have conceived that he had a perfect
right to administer her affairs.

He gloried, too, not a little in being the
presumed owner of Damocles. To be the
proprietor of the crack two-year-old of the
season, he found conferred upon him an
importance that immensely gratified his
vanity. People who would have scarcely

deigned to look at the retired shopkeeper
wholesale though he might have been —
were keenly alive to scrape acquaintance
with the owner of the favourite for the
coming Derby. It is curious, but it is so.
Knowing the owner of a crack racehorse,
however slightly, in the estimation of some
people, seems to betoken the possibility
of money-making ; because they are acquainted
with the owner of Podusokus,
they imagine that they are more intimately
acquainted with the merits of that noble
animal than the general public, who have
nothing but his performances to guide
them. Still, for all that, much though it
might gratify his pride to rub shoulders
with the salt of this world, nothing blinded
John Bramton when it became a question
of pounds, shillings, and pence. He had
been money-grubbing, if you choose to call
it so, all his life, which means that he had
worked hard and used the clear calculating
brain with which nature had gifted
him, to the best of his ability. Few
people could boast of having got the best

of John Bramton in business matters.
Although a just man, he was, undoubtedly,
a somewhat sharp practitioner in all
his dealings ; and even the man's natural
vanity and pomposity all yielded to that
dominant passion, of having the best of a
deal. For the rest, he was no niggard ;
he would wrangle over half-a-crown in a
matter of buying or selling, but you might
swim in his wine, or revel in the best he
had, that half-crown once satisfactorily adjusted.
As to his daughters, he grudged
them nothing ; he had brought them upas
he said, like ladies, and his highest
ambition now was to see them make what
he called ' splendacious marriages.'

More than one feeler, with regard to
the purchase of Damocles, was put out by
various members of the turf community.
A small syndicate of bookmakers, the moving
spirit of which was Mr James Noel,
were prepared to make a very handsome
bid for the colt ; but John Bramton could
not as yet make up his mind. Stubber
had told him that he possessed a verity
11. d

able gold mine in Damocles, and, so far,
Mr Stubber had most assuredly told him
the truth. Rich stake after rich stake had
been credited to Mr Bramton's account at
Wethers' ; and had not Damocles just
put the final crown of glory upon his two-year-old
career, by carrying the extreme
penalties and winning the Middle Park
Plate in a canter. John Bramton could
not make up his mind whether it was not
more profitable to keep this horse than to
sell it. The continued successful career
of Damocles, and the enthusiasm of Mr
Stubber about the future of his pet, urged
John Bramton to stick closely to his prize :
on the other hand, his old business instincts
told him there was danger in holding
1 perishable goods ' too long ; and a man
may know nothing about horse-flesh, but
still be quite aware of the numerous vicissitudes
it is subject to.

The luck of the Bramton jacket indeed
had occasioned no little talk at Newmarket
during October, for no sooner had Damocles
won the Middle Park Plate, and

established himself fairly in the position of
first favourite for the next year's Derby,
than the dark Lucifer made his debut, and
won a sweepstakes over the Criterion
course in such style as to make many
good judges think him also a colt of very
superior excellence. True, it was pointed
out that the half-dozen behind him had
not shown great racing capabilities during
the season, but then, on the other hand,
the victory was a very hollow one, and
there was no denying that the colt was
a fine mover. Still, racing men were not
likely to jump at the conclusion that
Lucifer was as good as Damocles, without
much better grounds to go upon than
they had at present.

One man, however, had some reason to
think this might turn out to be the case,
and that was Mr Skinner. The trainer
had told him in July that he had a high
opinion of Lucifer; that he regarded him asa
smart colt, but that he was so backward
then that he had never been able to rightly
take his measure. It was possible Stubber

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

could tell him a good deal more about the
colt now, if he chose. Skinner had been
an intimate friend of the late Richard
Bramton's, and was, consequently, upon
friendly terms with Mr Stubber. He determined,
the Houghton Meeting being
over, to go and have a friendly talk
with that gentleman, in the interests of
his client, Lord Ranksborow. The Earl
was a great favourite of Mr Skinner's :
the commissioner never forgot that he
was the first man who had helped him to
climb the ladder. The Earl also always
treated him with great consideration. He
was rather proud of the privilege of being
occasionally asked to Knightshayes. True,
he went down there strictly in a business
point of view, but still he had always
good reason to be satisfied with his

•O

quarters.

Mr Stubber welcomed the commissioner
to breakfast with great cordiality. He was
one of those trainers who never made any
mystery about his charges, but from whom,
in despite of their apparent candour, you

are apt to gain surprisingly little information.
In Mr Skinner's case, this
would probably be different. He was
one of the initiated, and had more than
once been entrusted with a commission
from the stable.

1 Well, Stubber,' said the bookmaker, ashe
sat down, ' your string is in great form
this back end. If poor Dick Bramton
were alive, he'd have given the Ring a
shaker next year.'

Yes,' replied the trainer ; ' he would
have held a nice hand of trumps. As it
is, I'm bothered out of my life what todo.
You see, there's no knowing what
this Mr Bramton will be up to. I
ventured to tell him Lord Ranksborow
had got most of the long shots about
Damocles.'

'You told him that?' asked Skinner
sharply.

Yes ; simply to assure him that his
lordship would abide by the offer he
made Richard Bramton — that is, to let
him have what he liked out of them.'

And what did he say ? '

His eyes twinkled, and then he
laughed, and said, — " Bless you, Stubber,
I never bet ; and as for the horse, I shall
most likely have sold him before next
May." Now what can you do with an
owner like that ? '

Never fear, man,' replied Mr Skinner;
he won't sell Damocles : his vanity won't
let him. You see, he has bought a place
close to Knightshayes, and he's mighty
anxious to stand well with the Earl and
his family. You were right about Lucifer:
he's a smart colt that.'

He is that, and no mistake,' rejoined
the trainer. ' I'll tell you what, there's
mighty little to choose between the pair,
at even weights.'

What ! you mean to tell me you could
win the Derby with either of them ? '

1 I can tell you this,' replied Stubber.
Lucifer was in the trial just before the
Middle Park Plate, and I set Damocles
to give him seven pounds, and the dark
'un won clever by half a length.'

By Jove, it is a hand of trumps, and
no mistake ! ' exclaimed Mr Skinner. ' I
only wish poor Dick had been alive to
play 'em.'

Isn't it aggravating,' said the trainer,
1 to have to deal with an owner who has
the winner of the Derby in his stable, and
can't make up his mind as to whether he
will sell the horse or win the race ? '

Never you mind that, Stubber,' replied
the commissioner ; ' a much greater puzzle,
to my mind, is who is pulling the strings ?
The first time I saw John Bramton, I
thought he knew nothing about horse-racing
; but I'm not at all sure about
that now. I'm blessed if I don't think
his ignorance is all affectation. Now who
put it into his head to keep Lucifer when
he sold his horses ? Answer me that.'

Well, as I told you before,' rejoined
the trainer, ' I didn't ; and it couldn't have
been his own judgment, because he had
never even seen him.'

1 Just so,' replied Mr Skinner meditatively
; ' and it isn't likely that it was

Lord Ranksborow. If the Earl was
managing matters, there would be no
question of selling Damocles.'

1 Certainly not,' replied Mr Stubber.
There is no man in England would make
such a good thing of it if Damocles is first
past the post at Epsom next May.'

What ought to be done is quite clear,'
said Mr Skinner. ' Lord Ranksborow is
perfectly reasonable, and would let Mr
Bramton take as much as he liked of his
book. The game would be to win the
Derby with Damocles ; he would then
naturally be first favourite for the Leger,
and one would have the whole summer
to bet against him in. Of course, at
Doncaster, you would win with Lucifer,
and the British public would once more
discover that, in their anxiety to find the
pea, they had again put their money
down on the wrong thimble.'

It takes my breath away only to think
of,' said Stubber. ' There never was such
a chance. It would set us all up for
life ! '

1 Ah ! ' rejoined the commissioner, as he
rose, ' if poor Dick had only been alive
to, as he used to say, "teach the British
public that he didn't keep horses exclusively
for their amusement." Well,
Stubber, good-bye ; we know how the
game ought to be played, but it's impossible
to guess how it will be played,
until we know who persuaded Mr Brandon
to keep Lucifer.'

Still ruminating on this problem, Mr
Skinner took his departure, destined to
be still further astonished when, a little
later on, he had elucidated the puzzle.
As he said in after years, — ' I've seen
many queer doings on the turf. I'm nota
fool, and can generally get to the
bottom of things ; but, Lord love me,
when a lady owns racehorses, you don't
know where you are. They are creatures
of impulse, you see, and would
strike a horse out of a race, just because
they found out that some one who has
offended them, had backed it for a five-pound
note ! '

Still turning over in his mind who
could be John Bramton's mysterious adviser,
Mr Skinner made his way back
to London. The only solution of the
mystery that he could see, was that
Richard Bramton must have left very
minute instructions concerning the disposal
of his stud ; but that such instructions
would be embodied in a will, never
for one instant crossed Mr Skinner's
imagination.

As for Stubber, that veteran trainer
had never in all his life been so exercised
about all his charges. He was
conscious he had the care of probably
the two best two-year-olds of the year,
that there was the possibility of winning
a very large sum over them in the
ensuing year, if only they were judiciously
managed. Skinner had most
clearly indicated the tactics that ought
to be pursued with them, and nothing
could be more plain and straightforward.
Mr Stubber had been a hard-working
man all his life, he had done his duty

fairly and conscientiously by his numerous
employers, but he had not as yet succeeded
in putting by much money. Now
he had a chance of winning a nice little
stake, at comparatively small risk, and
here he was cursed with an employer to
whom common sense — that is, from a
racing point of view — seemed absolutely
wanting.

Well, it was no use ; he had done his
duty by the 'losses, and meant doing it,
but it was exasperating to think that
they were the property of a man who
took no pride in their victories, and did
not, he veritably believed, know them
apart. Besides the solid pudding, Mr
Stubber further coveted a share of the
laurels of his profession. He had never
trained a winner of the classic races, and
it was the first time that even the opportunity
had been vouched him. Let alone
the money, it was hard to be denied the
chance of leading the winner of the
Derby in, for once in his life.

ILL MAKE LOVE TO ONE.'

As Mr Skinner had surmised, Stubber's
incautious admission that Lord Ranks-brow
had backed Damocles to win an
enormous stake at Epsom, let a flood of
light into the mind of John Bramton.
He had often chuckled over his noble
neighbour's attempt to buy the colt from
him at very much less than his value ;
but he thought that was all, and in business,
John Bramton looked upon that asa
perfectly justifiable thing to do. Had
he not been all his life endeavouring,
and pretty successfully too, to buy in a
cheap market and sell in a dear one.
If Lord Ranksborow had contrived to

have bought Damocles for a low sum,
Bramton would merely have said, ' Smart
man his lordship, had me about that
horse pretty tidily,' and he would have
set himself steadily to see how it was
possible to get the best of his lordship ;
but he saw clearly now that Damocles
represented quite a fortune to the Earl,
and that the possession or control of the
colt was a matter of the highest importance
to him. This, then, was the reason
why he so earnestly advised him not to
part with the horse ; this was the reason
why, in the first place, he had been so
anxious to buy, and this was the reason
why the Knightshayes people had been
so wondrous civil to them. Well, he was
not a thin-skinned man ; his wife and
daughters wanted to know the county
magnates, and by what means it was
brought about, was of little consequence.
Mr Bramton chuckled much over his discovery,
though, like a wise man, he did
not think it necessary to acquaint his
wife or daughters with it.

£>

Now if there was one thing likely to
determine John Bramton not to part with
Damocles, it was the fact of two or three
people endeavouring to buy him. So
much money had been made out of the
colt's successes, and his value had so
evidently increased, that Bramton was
afraid of not getting a sufficiently large
sum for the horse. He felt that he did
not as yet understand this new business
that he had entered upon, but he had a
leading idea that it was a business in
which every man's hand was against his
neighbour. He was an active, good-natured
man, devotedly attached to his
daughters, next to which, his prevailing
passion was money making. He was no
niggard with his wealth, and spent it
freely, but he never could resist the
temptation of turning a penny, and had
more than once — since he had been
wealthy — purchased property solely w T with
the view of selling it again. This propensity
made him coquette with the offers
about Damocles ; he would not positively

refuse to sell the colt, but always answered
that he hadn't made up his mind, — that he
thought the horse was worth more than
was bid. Pressed to say what he would
take, he would reply vaguely that he
would think it over, and let the bidder
know. So that, during these winter
months, the turf was much exercised about
the fate of the favourite for next year's
Derby, while as for Mr Stubber, he
declared ' he could not rest o' nights for
thinking of what news the post might
bring in the morning, — for thinking that
at any moment he might hear the 'losses
were to leave his stable ! '

In the meantime, he complied punctually
with the instructions of his new
master, by despatching him a bulletin of
the health of his charges, or, as Mr
Bramton put it, an ' invoice of the stocks.'

West Barkshire was very gay that
winter, and the Bramtons by this time
were well received in the county. Although
John Bramton had not sustained
the character of a sportsman, with which

it had pleased his neighbours to endow
him, yet he had made himself popular with
that class. He had subscribed liberally to
the hounds, and though he was never seen
outside of a horse, a fox was always to be
found in his coverts. Similarly, though
he never shot himself, he was liberal in
allowing other people to shoot over his
estate, which, though not a large one, was
well stocked with game. The daughters,
too, were pretty, popular girls, and though
they did not pretend to ride to hounds,
were graceful and accomplished horsewomen,
and constantly to be seen at the
covert side, attended by a sedate-looking
groom, when the hounds met their side of
the county. Then Temple Rising was a
house in which things were well done.
John Bramton, and his better-half also,
were not the people for one instant to
sanction lavish expenditure, but, on the
other hand, if there was sharp supervision,
there was no parsimony. The host knew
what good wine was, and kept a good
cook, so that Temple Rising speedily

obtained the reputation of being a house
worth staying in. Then the Ranksborows
having taken them up, of course, gave the
Bramtons a great lift in the county society,
and it became the fashion to regard the
vulgarisms of the parent Bramtons as
mere eccentricities. The shrewd business
capacities, too, of the master of Temple
Rising were becoming known in his
neighbourhood, and he began to play his
part in various local boards and directions,
and had good reason to suppose
that he would shortly be appointed a
magistrate of the county.

Knightshayes, too, had seen a good
deal of company that winter, and amongst
other men who had spent much time
there, were Lord Dartree and Alec Flood.
The eldest scion of the house of Ranks-brow
did not, as a rule, much trouble
the paternal roof-tree. He usually came
down there to shoot a little in the winter,
was apt to speak rather contemptuously
of the West Barkshire hunt, and declared
that the shires was the only place in which
VOL. 11. e

«*»

that sport was worth pursuing. But this
year, motives of economy had compelled
him to give up all idea of Leicestershire.
Lord Dartree, indeed, was a gentleman
who burnt the candle at both ends. He
liked to race and bet heavily all the
summer season, and to hunt all day, and
play whist all night, at Melton, during the
winter. He was no fool, but 'cards will
run the contrary way, as well is known to
all who play,' and racehorses do not always
do what is expected of them ; and
so Lord Dartree, who had had what is
termed ' a bad year,' found himself constrained
to either hunt from Knightshayes,
or not hunt at all, so, after bitter repining
at his confounded luck, Dartree made up
his mind to betake himself for this winter
to the paternal roof-tree.

The father and son were very good
friends, but between the reigning monarch
and the heir-apparent there is constantly
friction about that little matter
of the supplies. Dartree had always
capacity for spending two or three times

his income, while, on the other hand,
if there was any excess of expenditure
of that kind to be accomplished, the Earl
was quite capable of doing it himself;
however, Lord Dartree and his father
had never quarrelled much upon this
point, as the former knew too well the
true state of the case was that the Earl
positively could not find the money if he
tried. Father and son had had more than
one serious talk over the situation, and
they both agreed that there was nothing
but the victory of Damocles could keep
their heads above water much longer.

There can be no doubt about it,' said
the Earl ; ' it behoves us to be mighty
civil to those Temple Rising people,
and, if possible, make Bramton keep
Damocles till after Epsom. Stubber will
do him every justice, and he told me,
last time I saw him, that the colt was
thoroughly sound, wind and limb.'

Surely Bramton would only be too
glad to rely upon the experience of an
old trite like yourself,' observed Dartree.

1 I'm not at all sure about that,' replied
the Earl. ' He is sharp enough,
and given to decide things for himself.
His weak point is a desire to get into
society. He thinks a deal of knowing
us ; and what influence I possess over
him, comes from that ; and it tickles the
vanity of his wife and daughters to betaken
up by a countess.'

Dartree laughed, as he replied, —

1 The wind sets in that quarter, does
it ? My mother, I think, can be safely
left to manage all that.'

Yes ; she told me so, and she has
done her spiriting very well. She has
managed to infuse considerable enthusiasm
for the turf into the two Miss
Bramtons. By the way, as you're going
to be down here for the winter, you
might do your part. I've known you
pretty good at the philandering business,
when there was no good to be gained
by it'

All right, sir,' replied Lord Dartree
gaily. ' I'll make love to one, or both

the young ladies, if you like. Not an
unpleasant task that, for they are a
couple of very pretty girls.'

Yes, they are that ; but mind, Dart,
don't be a fool, and go too far, or else
it'll end in a row, — the very thing we
want to avoid.'

In compliance with this conversation,
Lord Dartree took every opportunity of
making himself agreeable to the Miss
Bramtons. At first he was perfectly indiscriminate
in his attentions, but the
character of the two girls soon decided
him on confining himself to one.

Miss Bramton was a coquette to the
tips of her fingers, a thorough adept in
the art of flirtation, and always ready to
respond to any challenge of that nature.
Then another thing that swayed the
mischievous Dartree in his choice of the
two girls, was the discovery, to his delight,
that he was making Sir Kenneth
Sandiman jealous ; for that gentleman,
after much vacillation, had thoroughly
settled down as Miss Matilda's admirer.

&

Sir Kenneth had made up his mind to
prosecute his suit in real earnest, and
he viewed with some dismay the appearance
in the field of so formidable an
antagonist. He counted so immensely
upon the position that he could confer
upon any lady he might make his wife,
but he was forced to admit that to be
Lady Sandiman could not compare with
the prospect of becoming Countess of
Ranksborow. As for Miss Matilda, she
was in high glee, smiled sweetly on both
her admirers, and played them off against
each other, like the accomplished actress
a woman of her nature invariably is.

The Knightshayes people mixed freely
in all the gaieties of the winter. The
Ladies Cuxwold were girls really fond
of dancing, and went to most of the
county balls in their vicinity ; they also
were constantly to be found at the covert
side, so that altogether the Bramtons
saw a good deal of their noble neighbours.


A man who apparently paid a good

deal of attention to Lucy, was Alec Food.
Nobody had ever suspected Alec of being
a marrying man — not that he was in the
slightest degree a misogynist. On the
contrary, he could talk pleasantly enough
with women, and rather affected their
society ; but Alec Flood was a man
with queer ways and whims. You must
not think from this that he was eccentric
in his manners or dress. He was as conventional,
pleasant, gentlemanly a man
as you would meet in any London
drawing-room ; but then he would disappear
from his friends without notice,
and for an indefinite period. He would
pack his portmanteau, and depart for the
other side of the world, just as the whim
seized him. He got tired of a place, or
it might be with the people he was associating
with ; and the absurd reasons
he gave for his caprices, were the
delight of his friends. Sometimes he
could no longer stand the prevailing
fashion in dress : he had been known to
assert that he had left England because

he could really bear the sight of red
parasols no longer ! He had gone to the
East, at another time, to escape from
the intolerable garrulity of the House of
Commons, as administered to him by
the daily journals.

1 I started,' he said, on that occasion,
'simply in search of a place without a
paper.'

1 And you found it ? ' inquired one of
his auditors.

'Oh, yes, I found it; there's not much
trouble about finding such a place in the
East. No, you need not ask where it is.
You're quite capable of going out and
setting up a local paper, if you knew
that ! '

The real fact of the matter was, that
Alec Flood was an idle man with independent
means, and an inexhaustible lust
of travel. He kept a permanent set of
rooms in London, which, as Dartree said,
was the one place on the globe in which
you need never expect to find him.

Lucy Bramton most certainly attracted

him. There was a certain bond of sympathy
between them, in the remembrance
of the peculiar circumstances under which
they had first met ; and Lucy liked to
hear him talk of the queer adventures he
had met with, and the strange places he
had been in. Alec, when he liked, was a
good talker, and also had the faculty of
narration ; he was by no means always
to be induced to recount his own experiences,
but, when he was, he usually held
his hearers enchained for the time. Then
they had another point of mutual interest,
and that was no other than the Honourable
Jack Cuxwold. Jack was one of Alec
Flood's special friends. They had been
travelling companions many a time and
oft, and had stood side by side in more
than one of those awkward incidents that
turn up when you abandon the railways
of civilisation, and betake yourself to
camels, mules, and the charge of Bedouins
or other scarce dependable escort.
It might have been supposed that Lucy
would have heard much more of Jack

from his own people, but it was not so.
Jack Cuxwold was not much given to
letter writing, and wrote far more frequently
to Alec Flood than he did to
any one else. Alec was, it need hardly
be said, on the best of terms with them
all, and a favoured visitor at Knight-shades
; but it was as Jack's especial
friend that he was always regarded,
and it was indeed through his friendship
for the latter that he first became acquainted
with the Ranksborow family.
Both Flood and Lucy followed the accounts
of the great procession of boats
up the Nile with the keenest interest, and
this again, perhaps, drew them somewhat
together. Still, it never occurred for one
instant to any of the Knightshayes people
that there could be anything between Alec
Flood and Lucy Bramton.

ANOTHER BID FOR DAMOCLES.

1 It's absurd,' exclaimed Miss Bramton,
but it is so like papa ! As Lord Darted
said the other day, he does not
seem to comprehend his obligations. As
an owner of racehorses, he is a public
character. People look at him, as the
owner of the favourite for the Derby,
with great interest, and now he talks of
selling Damocles. Why, it would be to
lose all our prestige in the county. It
mustn't be, mamma ! '

I quite agree with you, Matilda ; but
you know what your father is ! He is
such a one for turning a penny.'

4 Still,' said Lucy quietly, ' if the horse

wins the race, we shall get the stakes,
and still have him to sell.'

Just what I pointed out to your
father,' said Mrs Bramton. ' But he
says he is no gambler, and that should
Damocles be beat, he won't be worth so
much as he is now. He declares if he
gets a good bid, from a good man, he
shall close.'

It's really too bad of him,' said Miss
Bramton, in mortified tones.

Lucy knit her brows, and then remarked
quietly, —

Don't fret about it, Matilda ; I will
speak to papa. I think, when I remind
him that Damocles was Uncle Dick's
dying bequest, he won't insist upon it.
My wishes surely ought to be consulted
in the matter, and they are to carry out
Uncle Dick's intentions to the best of
my ability.'

Quite right, Lucy said Miss Brandon.
' Of course your wishes ought to be
considered ; and I am sure you would
not be, what Lord Dartree calls so

unsportsmanlike," as to part with the
favourite on the eve of a big race.'

1 Of course not,' cried Lucy, laughing.
1 England expects that every sportsman
shall do his duty, if he can ; and we
really must amongst us keep papa upto
the mark ; at least that is what Lord
Dartree says, is it not ? '

'Yes replied Miss Bramton. * It's
what every one says ; and it can't be too
much impressed on papa that he is now
a public character, — that what he did
when he was nobody at Wimbledon
didn't matter, but it's very different now
he is Mr Bramton of Temple Rising.'

1 Why, do you know, mamma, I overheard
Mr Berriman say that he wondered
whether Mr Bramton had any idea of
coming forward for the county.'

Lor' !' said Mrs Bramton ; 'just fancy
your father an M.P.'

1 I trust he won't think of it,' said
Lucy. ' We shall most likely get into
hot water with the Knightshayes people

'How so?' inquired Miss Bramton.

1 Why, papa's politics are different from
Lord Ranksborow's ; and I have an idea
that the Earl considers this division of
the county should be represented by
some one who meets with his approval.
I have an idea that the noble lord can
be very awkward when he is thwarted

1 Did you get your information from
Mr Flood, my dear ? ' asked Miss Brandon,
somewhat maliciously.

1 In part,' rejoined Lucy. ' However,
I don't suppose we need trouble our
heads about that yet. The main thing
is at present, that we keep Damocles.'

4 Carried, nem. con!' exclaimed Miss
Bramton.

The scene of the above conversation
was the drawing-room at Temple Rising,
and, as may be gathered from it, neither
Mrs Bramton nor her eldest daughter
were aware that the absolute control of
Damocles rested with Lucy. They had
seen John Bramton authorise the sale of
several horses in July, and they looked
upon it that, as Lucy's trustee, it was

quite at his discretion to do as he liked
about the three remaining ones. The
girl herself knew better, but she made
no mention of her powers to any one.
But, for all that, she is very determined
on the one point, — that Damocles should
run for the Derby, and that they shall
be all there to see. With the exception
of the one experience of the Julyss, Lucy
has as yet seen nothing of her horses ;
but she was fully determined that should
not be the case next year. As before
said, she differed much from her sister
with regard to racing. To Matilda Brandon
it was simply a matter of an outing,
a picnic, a garden-party, what you will ;
but Lucy, as far as she understood it,
felt a genuine interest in it. However,
this was all over for the present, and
her interests just now were far more
centred in the great expedition up the
Nile than in the gallops of Mr Stubber's
charges.

An event looked forward to with great
interest in the neighbourhood was the

Hunt Ball, and steeplechases at Wroxe-
ter. This was an annual business which
usually attracted a large gathering, and
filled the hotels. The country gentlemen,
with their wives and daughters, all flocked
into the county town to enjoy a ball in
the evening, and to wind up with a day's
cross-country racing on the morrow. Both
at Knightshayes and Temple Rising great
interest was manifested about the steeplechases,
for Lord Dartree was going to run
a horse, which he had been duly qualifying
with the West Barkshire hounds, and
meant to ride himself. And as he had
already shown himself a promising horseman,
his family were all sanguine of his
success. In fact, it had been settled
between the two families that they should
join forces, and put up at the same hotel
at Wroxeter for the affair. Both the
Earl and John Bramton were stewards
of the races, — the former according to
annual custom ; while as to the latter, as
the clerk of the course put it, — ' How
could you leave out the owner of the

favourite for the coming Derby ? ' more
especially when, as in John Bramton's
case, he was in a position to give a liberal
donation to the Race Fund.

The vanity of the master of Temple
Rising was not a little tickled by the
compliment. He liked to be considered
a patron of horse-racing. One thing
about which impressed him very favourably,
namely, that it involved no suggestion
of his getting on a horse himself.
As in the summer time, he was exercised
on the subject of his get-up, and had
some thoughts of consulting Lord Dartree
on the subject. But that young gentleman
had recently horrified him by suggesting
that he, Mr Bramton, should pick up
a steeplechaser, and run it at Wroxeter ;
and a horse for any purposes of racing
Mr Bramton looked upon as a very unprofitable
investment. However, he need
not have taken alarm, as Lord Dartree's
was one of those idle suggestions men
make vaguely for mere conversation. In
the meantime, Mr Stubber's weekly re-vol.

II. F

ports from Newmarket were of the most
glowing description. Mr Bramton was
quite unaware of it, but it was a standing
jest amongst the sporting men of West
Barkshire to ask after the health of
Damocles, Mr Bramton's quaint replies
to such interrogations being always a
source of amusement. He would reply,
1 He was doing nicely,' that ' he was as
well as could be expected,' which, though
not absolutely wrong, is hardly the way
men express themselves about horses.
But there was one thing John Bramton
knew better than to say about Damocles,
to wit, that he had the slightest idea of
selling him. True, he had told the Earl
of Ranksborow that he had some thoughts
of it, and said so openly at the dinner-table
at Knightshayes, but it was tacitly
understood in the neighbourhood that he
had abandoned his intention. And the
Earl probably was the only man in Bark-shire
who still suspected him of that idea.

One afternoon the Earl rode over to
Temple Rising, and, after paying his

respects to the ladies, told John Bramton
that he wanted to say a word to him on
business. Mr Bramton at once led the
way to his study.

1 Now, my lord,' he said, ' there's nobody
will interrupt us here. I am at
your service.'

1 I heard this morning, from a man in
whom I place the greatest confidence,
that you were about to receive, if you've
not already received, a very liberal offer
for Damocles. You would, I fancy, find
the money all right, and the nominal purchaser
would be a Mr Robertson. I trust
you won't make up your mind to sell.'

I don't know,' replied Mr Bramton.
I really could not give you an answer
on that point at present.'

Well, whatever you do,' replied Lord
Ranksborow, ' you ought to know fairly
what you're doing, which will very possibly
not be the case.'

I don't understand you,' replied Mr
Bramton. ' Surely I can dispose of property
to any one I like ? And this Mr

Robertson, you say, could be relied on to
pay for the goods ? '

Quite so, I fancy ; but he will make
one condition.'

6 What is that ? ' asked Bramton.

That you say nothing to any one about
having parted with the horse.'

1 Well,' rejoined Bramton, ' I see no
great harm in that. I have bought myself
occasionally under somewhat similar
conditions, such as saying nothing about
the price, etc'

'No; but you will have sold him into
the hands of a set of bookmakers, who
will not start him for the Derby.'

1 Oh, come, my lord, that's not likely.
Men don't buy horses at the sort of price
they'll have to give for Damocles, just to
keep him to look at.'

'They will bid against him all the spring,'
returned the Earl, ' and then not run him.'

That wouldn't matter to me,' replied
Bramton. ' I don't bet, and they would
have a right to do what they like with
their own.'

The public thinks there is a limit to
that, when it comes to racing,' replied the
Earl ; ' and you must bear in mind that
if this sale is kept a secret, the horse will
be regarded as yours till such time as it
pleases them to strike it out. All the
obloquy of the transaction would rest on
your head.'

Well, my lord, that, of course, will be
considered in the price.'

'You don't quite understand me, Mr
Bramton.'

Better than you think, my lord,' mentally
ejaculated the owner of Temple
Rising, who, placed through Stubber in
possession of the fact that the Earl had
backed Damocles at long odds to win
an enormous stake, conceived himself
perfectly aware of the Earl's object in
preventing any sale of the horse.

Allow me to point out to you,' continued
Lord Ranksborow, ' that it will
destroy your social position here. There
are lots of people all over England, not
in the least to be called betting men, who

always have a modest bet upon the
Derby. Your friend Berriman, for instance,
always goes up to see it, and hasa
tenner on the race. You don't understand
racing, Mr Bramton, but you will
find yourself very much cold-shouldered
if you part with your horse to these
people.'

Then you mean to say,' rejoined Mr
Bramton testily, 'that I'm expected not
to part with the horse.'

I don't say that,' rejoined Lord Ranks-brow.
' I think you'll be unwise if you
part with him to these people. But, sell
to whom you may, mind it is quite an
open transaction, and don't leave it till
too late.'

You think, then, Mr Berriman would
cut me ; and I suppose you and all the
other folks round about would do the
same ? '

1 That, Mr Bramton,' replied the Earl,
with studied politeness, ' is a point on
which it is quite unnecessary to give an
opinion. I have backed your horse myself,

and feel sure that such a mistake as
you might have made through ignorance
in selling him to Mr Robertson, will never
be committed. I shall be sorry if you
sell him at all, but perfectly acknowledge
your right to dispose of him in an open
way. Good-bye.'

Good-bye, my lord,' rejoined Bramton,
1 and you may rest quite satisfied that I
shall bear in mind what you say.'

Mr Bramton meditated for some time
upon his visitor's remarks. He had quite
made up his mind, at the beginning of the
conversation, that the Earl was speaking
entirely in his own interests ; and so he
owned he was ; but it had occurred to
that astute diplomatist that this was a
sale which it was quite possible for him
to prevent. As he rightly conjectured,
John Bramton, in his ignorance of racing,
had no idea of the social slur that would
attach to him had he parted with
Damocles under such conditions ; and in
his own county Lord Ranksborow knew
very well that the people would side with

him if he pronounced social ostracism
on John Bramton should he act in this
manner. As for the latter, it need
scarcely be said that this was a view of
things that had never presented itself to
him before. He was getting not a little
puffed up by the position he had succeeded
in obtaining in the county, and
the idea of forfeiting all that was not only
repugnant to him, but he knew would
produce a frightful storm in his family.
Mr Bramton was an obstinate man, and
generally pretty resolute in what he
meant to do, but he rather feared a battle-royal
with his wife, and, in a more modified
degree, with his eldest daughter, and
he knew the mouths of the ladies would
be filled with bitter reproach should he
jeopardise their popularity in the neighbourhood.


1 No,' he muttered to himself; 'it's possible
to cut your fingers over a smart
stroke of business, and I think I'll have
nothing to do with this. When Lord
Ranksborow wanted to buy Damocles

himself, he was offering a deal less than
the horse was worth. In short,' chuckled
Mr Bramton to himself, ' was trying to
take advantage of my youth and inexperience.
He was not likely to blazon
that story abroad, as it rather told against
himself; while the neighbourhood could
only laugh, and say, that I was not such a
fool as the noble Earl took me for. But
I understand now that to part with this
horse before the Derby, will occasion all
sorts of nasty remarks about me ; and,
by George ! it's no use getting into
society, only to be kicked out of it. And
then — oh my! just think of Margaret
and Matilda on the rampage ! No — I'm
dashed ! We'll stick to Damocles, and
win the Derby.'

Lord Ranksborow had struck the keynote
at last, and would have been highly
delighted with his morning's work, had
he but known it.

FRONT DE Boeuf.

When Jack Cuxwold struggled back to
consciousness, a soft hand was laving his
temples and moistening his swollen lips.
He knew not where he was, he knew
not into whose hands he had fallen,
and had but a vague remembrance of
what had happened to him. He strove
to speak, but his tongue, swollen to
an unnatural size, and hard as iron, refused
to articulate. He had, in the
course of the campaign, picked up a
smattering of Arabic, and therefore quite
comprehended when a woman's voice
said to him gently, — ' Be still ; try and
swallow this.' With some difficulty at

first he gulped down some half-dozen
mouth full of water, then the rigid muscles
began to relax, and he drank copiously.
He was soon so far revived as to be able
to assist his preserver, and to bathe his
own face ; and then he tried to raise
himself, and to see who it was that had
come to his rescue.

It was an Arab girl who, having strayed
some slight distance from her tribe, had
unexpectedly come across him. Her
horse was standing some few paces off
attentively watching the proceedings of
his young mistress. Jack strove to rise
to his feet, but was unable.

1 Lie still,' said the girl ; ' continue bathing
your face and body, and drink when
you feel inclined. Some of my people
will soon find us, and they will have
plenty more water. Stay ! I had best
leave you for a few minutes. Do as I
tell you, and don't stir until I come back :
I go for further help.'

She was true to her word. In less than
ten minutes she returned with some four

or five fine-looking Arabs, who throwing
themselves from their horses, at once
began to render assistance to the unfortunate
waif who had fallen into their
hands. Cuxwold was, by this time, sufficiently
recovered to sit up. By perpetually
rubbing him, by perpetually bathing
his face and temples, and by constant
draughts of cold water, Jack at length
was so far himself again as to struggle
to his feet. That the Arabs were quite
aware that he was an English officer, he
gathered from their gestures, and though
they showed no inclination to plunder or
ill-use him, he had a strong impression
that he was a prisoner in their hands.
He noticed that the men paid great
deference to the girl who had at first
discovered him, so he appealed to her
to replenish his water-bottle, restore him
his dromedary, and put him on his way
to the Wells of Abu Klea or Jakdul,
whichever he might be nearest. But her
answer was prompt, though gentle, —
1 Englishman,' said she, ' you are not

strong enough to proceed, nor would you
ever find your way across the trackless
sands to the route you have strayed from.
You must stay in our tents for a day or
two, till you have recovered. And then
my father, Mohammed Sebekh, Sheikh
of the Halawins, will consider what is
best to be done with you ; but I will
answer for your safety.'

Jack Cuxwold felt there was nothing
for it but to submit. He was making a
terrible mess of his errand ; but what
could he do ? His clear duty was to
deliver those despatches as quickly as
might be, and to fight his way through
any Arabs who might try to meddle
with him, let the odds against him be
ever so great. His captors had not
disarmed him, but it was little likely
that they would permit him to mount
his dromedary. They had saved his life
undoubtedly, and he could hardly repay
them by, in his endeavour to escape,
taking theirs. Then, again, he was completely
lost in the desert, and little likely

to recover the track without their assistance.
All these things ran rapidly through
his mind, and led to the only conclusion
possible, — that he must give up all
thoughts for the present of continuing
his journey, and merely await such time
as it pleased his captors to give him permission
to proceed. They seated him
once more upon his dromedary, and the
girl then sprang lightly on her horse, and
led the way. Jack noticed that the Arabs,
although apparently leaving him at liberty,
clustered round him in such manner as
would make escape excessively difficult ;
and after riding some five or six miles, he
was fain to confess that he was hardly ina
fit state for a sharp hand-to-hand fight.
Consumed with thirst, he had been utterly
unable to eat, and this, with the agony he
had endured, had temporarily exhausted
his strength. A very little further, and
they came to the Arab encampment.

The dusky tents of the children of
Ishmael were situated in a ravine, at the
bottom of which was the most precious of

all discoveries in the desert, namely water.
The destruction of wells is, by the unwritten
law of the desert, the one thing
prohibited in warfare, and the fierce battle
of Abu Klea, like the fierce struggle of
Abu Kru, were both fought in the main
to keep the infidels from the water. The
Arab will callously condemn you to perish
by thirst, but it must be by other means
than tampering with the wells.

And now his captors signed to Cuckold
to dismount, and no sooner was
that accomplished than they conducted
him towards a tent, which, from its standing
a little apart from the others, and
from its larger size, proclaims itself the
dwelling of some one of importance.

Englishman,' said the girl, ' you must
first be brought before my father, and then
you shall have the food and rest of which
you doubtless stand in need.'

Raising the curtain of the tent, his
conductor motioned him to follow her,
and then Cuxwold was simply struck
dumb with astonishment. A man, something

over six feet high, rose to receive
him, clad in a complete suit of chain
armour. A singularly handsome man,
whose black moustache and beard were
but slightly grizzled. A superbly-built
fellow, who wore his panoply of the
Middle Ages as if to the manner born,
looking every inch a chief, and one
destined from birth to rule his brethren.
He rose at Cuxwold's approach, and fixing
his dark eyes keenly upon Jack, said,
in a courteous voice, ' Stranger, you are
welcome to our tents,' and then glanced
at his daughter for an explanation.

1 Father,' she said, ' I found this Englishman
lost in the desert and dying of thirst.
I have saved him, and my word is pledged
for his life ; but all else is left in your
hands.'

Englishman, you have heard,' said
the Sheikh. ' Your life is my daughter's,
as, but for her, you would have perchance
fed the birds of the air by this ; for the
rest, you are my prisoner.'

Jack bent his head in reply, and once

more gazed in astonishment at the Sheikh.
He thought of the ' Talisman for the
man whom he stood before might, as far
as his attire went, have been the Knight
of the Leopard himself.

You have come into a country continued
the chief, ' to interfere with a quarrel
that does not concern you. What
are those dogs of Egyptians to you, that
you should espouse their quarrel ? — white-livered
hounds, who have always fled before
our spears. If I have not taken part
against you, it is because that I believe
that there is but one God, and Mahomet
is His prophet, and that the Mahdi is buta
lying prophet ; but had it been a mere
question of the Arab fighting against the
Egyptian, my tribe should have fought
against you at Abu Klea, and died to the
last man, before you drank the blue waters
of the Nile '

Father interfered the girl, ' the
Englishman is faint from hunger and
fatigue ; let him rest now, I beseech
you.'

VOL. 11. G

1 It is good. Take him, Zelne, and see
that his wants are attended to.'

The girl made a sign to him that his
audience was over, and after bowing to
the Sheikh, Jack Cuxwold followed his
conductress out of the tent. They were
no sooner outside, than Zelne made a sign
to him to give up his arms, which she at
once handed to one of the attendant
Arabs. Then, leading the way to a
similar, though smaller, canvas dwelling,
she threw open the door and said, ' Rest,
Englishman, food and water shall be
brought to you immediately.'

Left to himself, Jack Cuxwold began
to muse over the situation. He certainly
felt that his life was safe enough, but he
was probably destined to undergo a considerable
captivity. He had heard numerous
stories of these restless children of
the desert. How bitter they could be
in fight, how reckless of their own lives,
and merciless to their foes in the hour
of victory, he knew well. They neither
asked nor gave quarter. In all the hard

fighting he had seen, not once had he
observed the stricken Arab,

1 Raise the craven cry A?na?i ! '
but, once within their tents, he knew his life
was sacred, and that unless he attempted
to escape he ran no danger whatever. Still
they could have no object in detaining
him for any length of time, unless, it suddenly
flashed across him, they put a
pretty heavy ransom on his head. That
stately warrior of the Middle Ages, Mohammed
Sebekh, might be as mediaeval
in his habits as Front de Boeuf; but here
the arrival of an Arab maiden with his
repast put an end to his reflections, and,
his meal once finished, Jack Cuxwold
sank into a dreamless slumber.

When Jack awoke the next morning,
that light-hearted Lancer felt quite himself
again, and once more reverted to
his reflections of the previous evening.
'Hum,' he muttered, 'that brevet Majority
for the carrying of despatches has dissolved
itself into a mere mental delusion ;
and here is one of the brightest ornaments

of Her Majesty's service, a prisoner
in the tents of Shem. How that blessed
old Crusader came by his rig-out I'd give
something to know. There was no look
of Birmingham about that sheet of mail.
Indeed, in no old armoury I ever was in,
did I see more beautiful steel links. I
wonder whether the old legend is true,
that when the Saracens were driven out
of Palestine by the Crusaders, they crossed
into the Soudan. Anyway, my friend here,
who seems to regret he was not leading his
merry men against us at Abu Klea, seems
to have just come out of that campaign of
eight centuries ago. A Saladin in Coeur
de Leon armour ; and, by Jove ! I wonder
what he intends to do with me. Deuced
pretty girl his daughter ; in short, the
family is good-looking, and seems well-mannered,
as far as I have got, but a
chieftain who wears a steel frock coat,
may be expected to develop a touch of
Front de Boeuf at any moment'

Jack Cuxwold is making no very wild
conjectures, as there are certainly good

grounds for supposing that the Arabs,
when driven out of Palestine, overran the
Soudan, and drove out or made slaves of
the negroes, both there and in the northern
part of Kordofan, the warrior race, as
usual, making short work of the inferior.

Two things Jack was very anxious to
discover. The first was his whereabouts,
and the second was how he had got off the
route. The first of these questions was
speedily cleared up, the Arab girl who
brought him his food informing him, in
reply to his questions, that they were
camped by the Wells of Bayuda ; and this
made clear to Jack how it was that he had
lost his way, for although he had never seen
or been near those wells, he, like most
other officers, had pored over such charts
of the desert as the force had with them ;
and there were a good many of such charts.
The desert was pretty well known, and it
is almost unnecessary to say that the situation
of the wells were among the most prominent
landmarks. Cuxwold knew very
well that the Bayuda Wells were about

fifty miles south-west of the Wells of
Jakdul, and that, therefore, when he had
been discovered by Zelne, he had been in
all probability somewhere about forty miles
from these latter wells. On leaving ,
he must very soon have struck
too much to the west, thereby missing the
Wells of Abu Klea, and so, getting off the
regular route, he had drifted hopelessly and
aimlessly into the desert. He strolled out
of the tent and gazed about him. The
number of camels and horses betokened
a wealthy and powerful tribe. The men,
too, were tall, fine-looking fellows, exceedingly
well-armed, and Jack could not help
thinking that it was quite as well his religious
convictions had made Mohammed
Sebekh hold aloof from the fray. ' A very
dangerous contingent to have had against
us at Abu Kru,' muttered Jack.

He had not been strolling about very
long, indulging in all the luxury of a pipe,
when a wild-looking Arab came up and
made him understand that the Sheikh
wanted to speak to him.

After a courteous salutation, Mohammed
said to him, —

I want you to explain to me why you
English have come into the Soudan. We
came from across the sea, and won the
land by our swords from the Ethiopians,
a far bolder race than these miserable
Egyptians, who have ever since been endeavouring
to take it from us. With the
help of Turkish soldiers, they have sometimes
succeeded, but only to pay bitterly
for it in the long run. Now you have
come to help them, and none of you will
ever see Korti again.'

As far as I am concerned, it depends
pretty much upon yourself,' replied Jack,
in a devil-may-care sort of way, ' but I
fancy my comrades will come through all
right, although I'm quite willing to admit
your people fight splendidly.'

You think so, Englishman,' replied the
Sheikh. ' You think to find your great
Pasha alive in Khartoum. He is dead ;
and the city in the hands of the Mahdi.'

1 If what you tell me is true,' replied

Jack, ' I can only say a grand soldier has
gone to his death, and that every Englishman
will be sorry we were too late to
save him.'

An Arab has not two tongues : what
he speaks is the truth,' rejoined the
Sheikh.

By Jove ! that is pretty tall talking,'
muttered Jack to himself. ' At lying and
thieving, I should say an Arab is quite as
good as his neighbours.'

Yes,' continued the Sheikh, ' you were
too late to save him, and you are too late
to save yourselves. An Arab knows how
to revenge himself. You know the story
of Nim, the tiger of Shendy. When
Mahomet Ali sent his son Ismail down to
Shendy to collect tribute, Ismail treated
Nim, the Sheikh of the Shaygyehs, with
contempt, and even went so far as to
strike him with the stem of his chibouk.
He had better have struck a tiger. He
no longer pleaded for time to meet
Ismail's demands, but promised that all
should be gathered at once. Camels,

sheep, horses, corn, dhurra money, were
collected and brought to the Pasha with
the greatest alacrity and cheerfulness.
Ismail and his troops were invited to partake
of a great banquet. The melissa
was handed freely about to both guards
and sentries ; at midnight, a great cry
arose, a circle of flame surrounded the
town, for the Shaygyehs had fired the
corn. Ismail and his guard were burnt
to cinders, and not one of his followers
escaped the claws of the "tiger of
Shendy." '

It is just as well that bloodthirsty old
ruffian died a good many years ago,'
thought Jack. 'Well, Sheikh,' he remarked
aloud, ■ my countrymen are in
the open, and, if Gordon Pasha is dead,
will return to Korti ; and,' he concluded
haughtily, ' all the Arabs in the Soudan
won't stop them.'

Mohammed gave a contemptuous smile
as he replied, —

1 For the present, Englishman, you are
safer in my hands than anywhere else.

Your life is safe, but if your friends desire
to see you again, they will have to pay for
it,' and, with a stately wave of his hand,
the Sheikh intimated that their interview
was over.

'Ah,' said Jack to himself, as he stepped
out of the tent, ' thoroughly mediaeval in
his ideas, as I anticipated. Now, as there
is no knowing what old Front de Boeuf
will ask, and no knowing what ready
money the contingencies of Newmarket
have left the governor, my ransom will
be a complicated affair. 'Isn't likely a
grateful country is going to pay a lot of
money to recover a fellow who was d — d
fool enough to lose his way.'

FRONT DE ; Boeuf's LITTLE BILL.

After leaving the Sheikh, Jack Cuxwold
strolled to the verge of the encampment.
Though he had nominally no guard over
him, yet he had little doubt but that a
keen eye was kept on his movements.
Moreover, had he been free to start that
moment, he had no knowledge of which
way to travel. He strolled idly on to the
edge of the encampment, when suddenly
he came upon Zelne, who, with one or
two other maidens, was sitting gossiping
at a tent door. The girl rose when she
perceived him, and advanced to meet him,
with the firm step and assured air of one
who is a great lady amongst her people.

Jack had thought her pretty the previous
day, but he had then been too exhausted to
take due notice of her charms. Now he
did her full justice. As he gazed on the
lithe straight figure, the glossy dark hair,
all broidered with gold coins, the soft,
liquid black eyes, and delicately-chiselled
features, Jack was fain to admit that in
her own style he had seldom seen so
handsome a girl as this Eastern beauty.

You are rested, Englishman, and have
seen my father ? '

Yes,' replied Jack. ' I have to thank
you for saving my life. But for you, I
must have perished in the desert.'

And what said my father to you ? '
asked Zelne.

1 That I must remain his prisoner. He
seems angry at our presence in the desert,
and says that my countrymen will never
leave it, — that they are destined to lay
their bones here.'

What my father says will probably
happen,' replied Zelne. ' It is well for
you that you are with us. When you

have breathed the air of the desert fora
few months, you will no longer desire
to dwell in cities. Come and sit down
with us. You shall tell us all about
your own country. I have seen but few
of your people.'

So the Lancer seated himself on the
carpet by the side of the group of girls,
devoutly wishing that he could only tuck
his long legs away as cleverly as his companions,
and good-humouredly submitted
to a severe cross-examination about the
habits and customs of his country.

Zelne was treated with considerable deference
by the other maidens, and was
indeed the principal spokeswoman. But,
much to Jack's astonishment, he found
another of the girls, who, like Zelne, knew
a little English. The conversation, indeed,
was carried on in a species of polyglot of
English, Arabic, and pantomime, attended
by much laughter. And Cuxwold began
to think that his captivity would be at all
events not hard to bear. Suddenly the
tinkling of bells fell upon the ear. The

girls stopped their chattering, and Zelne
exclaimed, —

It is odd ; strangers are approaching
the wells. It is singular, for the Wells
of Bayuda lie apart from any recognised
track, and are seldom visited by caravans
or traders.'

1 There would hardly be traders about in
such times as these,' remarked Cuxwold.

'See,' rejoined Zelne, 'those are traders,'
and she pointed to a small string of camels
that were rapidly approaching. The newcomers
were four in number, and consisted
apparently of three Arabs and a
European. ' They are probably on their
way to join the Mahdi. They would
never be out here if they w r ere seeking
your countrymen, Englishman.'

In the meantime, the new arrivals had
made their way up to the wells, and were
busy quenching their own thirst, and
watering their beasts. Jack's attention
was speedily attracted by the European,
a slight dark man, with a decidedly
Jewish cast of countenance. He evidently

spoke Arabic fluently, for he conversed
freely with his companions, as he
did also with some of the Halawin Arabs.
But Jack's interest was thoroughly aroused
when the Jewish-looking man's wrath became
aroused by a refractory camel. He
cursed it, to Jack's amusement, in an infinite
variety of languages, and, amongst
others, English. Now if there is one
thing dwells in the memory, it is apt to
be the human voice ; the voice will often
recall a person to one's recollection when
the face has failed to do so. Jack Cuckold
had a misty idea of having seen the
man's face before, but when he heard
him vociferate, ' You damned pig-headed
brute ! ' it all flashed across him. The
last time he had heard that voice, and
seen that face, was in the gambling house
at Cairo ! and equally well he remembered
that the introducer of Flood and himself
to that den had never been seen or heard
of afterwards. Who had actually struck
the fatal blow, neither he nor Flood had
seen, but he did know that his Jewish-looking

acquaintance had been one of
those who closed around Bramton just
before it was struck.

Walking up to the man he remarked, —

'They are obstinate brutes, are they not?'

The Jew looked round at him quick as
lightning, and ejaculated, —

'An Angles in the tents of the Bag-arras!
How have you come here?'

No matter, my friend. Pray, what is
your name ? '

1 Peste ! it is not usual to ask for the
name in the desert. I have many. I
travel what you call incog, often. Ben
Israel will do as well as another just
now. And you ; what you do here ? '

Where are you going ? where are you
bound for ? ' asked Jack, utterly ignoring
the other's question.

We are peaceful traders, carrying our
goods where we may find the best market,'
returned the other evasively. 'Chit ! Captain
Cuxwold, what is the use of fencing?'
continued Ben Israel ; 'you are a prisoner
here.'

True,' rejoined Jack, ' and you are the
scamp who led me to that den in Cairo
where the murder was committed.'

Bygones are bygones,' rejoined the
other. ' I can do you a good turn now.
You pay me well, of course.'

What is it ? ' inquired Cuxwold.

1 I will let them know in Cairo where
you are.'

1 When shall you be in Cairo ? ' asked
Jack.

How should I know ? ' demanded Ben
Israel testily. ' If we do good business,
quick ; if not, queen same ? ' and he gave a
thoroughly French shrug of his shoulders.

The man was a Levantine Jew, and
like many of his race, had he been at
the building of the Tower of Babel would
have been on colloquial terms with all the
workmen, and have obtained possession
of the main part of their weekly wages.
One of that marvellous race that are
selling oranges or acting as couriers today,
and are impression of the opera,
leading operators of finance, prominent

VOL. II. H

turfites, or keepers of a gambling-house,
on the morrow — a shrewd-brained, loose-principled
race, with as many lives as
cats, and a power of adapting themselves
to the making of money under any form.
And Ben Israel, as he chose for the
present to call himself, had tried his hand
at many pursuits, and usually with more
or less success. In short, he might have
been a man of substance by this, had he
not been an incorrigible gambler. He
played, metaphorically, with cogged dice
at one and all of his many vocations ; butin
the Levant, in Cairo, Alexandria, etc.,
so do your neighbours, and when it came
to sheer gambling, it was usually a case
of which player concealed most aces up
his sleeve.

Think over what I say, Captain. But I
know the Barras. You will pay dear before
they will bring themselves to part with
you. As for your friends who have gone
to Khartoum, they will no more return.'

1 It was curious,' Jack thought, ' the unanimous
belief there was amongst these

children of the desert that the British force
was doomed to destruction ; he could not
but believe that hard fighting there might
be, but surely his old comrades would be
equal to the occasion.

1 You overlook one thing, my friend,' he
said at length. If Mohammed Sebekh intends
my being ransomed, he must let me
communicate with the people who have
got to find the money.'

For a minute or two the rapacious Jew
was silent, and then he replied, —

'It is as you will, Captain. The air of
the desert is very healthful, but the life
is a little, what you call, all the same — -
ah ! I have him, dull.'

1 That doesn't bear much upon the
point,' returned Jack. ' I shall have to
lead it until I am ransomed. I don't see
any particular point in paying you to
carry a message which the Sheikh must
send for me himself,' and so saying, Jack
turned away, and rejoined Zelne.

Chut!" muttered the Jew to himself.
1 The Captain has a very pretty notion of

making his sojourn here as endurable as
possible. The Sheikh had better look to
his daughter, or when that ransom comes,
it will, perchance, give liberty to two

'You know that man ?' said Zelne.

I met him once about two years ago
in Cairo. He is a thorough scoundrel,
and, I should think, capable of anything.'

'You are right,' replied the girl. 'He
has visited us two or three times. He
is an emissary of the Mahdi's. He has
tried to persuade my father to take part
against your people ; but my father says
the Mahdi is a lying prophet ; and though
he too defies the authority of the Khedive,
he will none of the Mahdi. He says the
sons of the desert have ever been free,
and that their only lawful suzerain in this
world is the Caliph, as head of their religion.'


Does your father place trust in this Ben
Israel, as he calls himself?' asked Jack.

Yes ; far more than I like,' replied
Zelne. ' Ben Israel is a man who appears
in the desert only in times of commotion,

and it is odd how the sheikhs trust
him, though they know he is here only
to serve his own interests. Trust him
not, Englishman ; he would betray man,
woman, or child, if he could obtain a
piastre by doing so.'

'You must not call me Englishman,'
said Jack.

1 What am I to call you then,' replied
the girl, smiling. ' I do not know your
name, nor your rank. Are you a sheikh
amongst your own people ? '

I am a soldier,' rejoined Jack, ' and
captain of a band of sixty or seventy
horsemen.'

Ah ! then I shall call you Captain —
that is your title. And now, Captain,
what did that man say to you ? Stop, I
will tell you partly what he did say to
you. Whatever it was, you were to give
him money for something or other.'

Quite right, Zelne,' replied Jack, laughing.
' He offered to take a letter to my
friends, to let them know where I was,
if I would pay him for taking it.'

Once again I say don't trust that
man,' and with a warning gesture Zelne
gilded rapidly away to her own tent.

In the course of the afternoon Jack
Cuxwold received a message from the
Sheikh, to the effect that he wished to
speak to him. Jack hastened to comply,
and found Mohammed Sebekh in close
conference with Ben Israel.

Englishman,' said the former, ' I have
had much talk about you with my friend
here, and he has told me of the rank you
hold amongst your own people. This has
enabled me to fix the number of piastres
I shall demand for your redemption. It is
you who have disturbed the peace of the
desert. My countrymen would long ago
have settled with these dogs of Egyptians,
had you not supported them. If you did
not make the war in the Soudan, it is your
men and your gold which has prolonged it.
It is fit that you should pay for disturbing
the peace of the country.'

Front de Boeuf might have been
brought up in an attorney's office,' thought

Jack, as he listened to the Sheikh's specious
pleading.

In the money of your own country,
I demand five thousand pounds.'

Good Sheikh,' returned Jack sententiously,
' I don't pretend that I want either
to live or to die in the desert, but whether
my friends can or will pay that amount
of money, I can't say.'

If they don't, Captain Cuxwold, then
I think you will die in the desert.'

'Ah!' chimed in Ben Israel, 'life is
sweet ; what is five thousand pounds to
a rich Englishman ? You destroy, deface,
this beautiful country. Sacred, you
must pay for him.'

My friend,' continued the Sheikh, ' is
willing to take a letter for you to Cairo.
As I have told you, Khartoum has fallen,
and you English will never return to Korti.
Write then and tell your friends in Cairo
to make arrangements to send this money
up to Khartoum.'

I will not write by that messenger,
Sheikh. I will not trust him.'

You are foolish, Captain,' replied the
attacked, with the utmost indifference to
the accusation against his good faith.
1 Bah ! ' he exclaimed, turning to the
Sheikh, ' the Captain got into a little
disturbance, unfortunately, under my
guidance, in Cairo. It was not my fault.
It was one of his own countrymen caused
the disturbance.'

'Who was first cheated, and then murdered
there,' interposed Jack sharply.

Hard words, hard words, Captain,'
said Ben Israel. ' He lose his temper
when he lose his money. There was a
row, and somebody stabbed him.'

1 When men quarrel they use steel,'
remarked the Sheikh sententiously. ' I
suppose you Englishmen, when you differ,
don't settle it with your tongues, like
a pack of old women ? '

I should have thought the last few
weeks might have taught your countrymen
to tell a different tale. Ask those
who met us at Abu Klea, or fought against
us at Abu Kru, whether Englishmen were

old women to fight against,' said Jack
haughtily.

The Sheikh's eyes blazed with anger
for a moment, and he bit his moustache,
while, as for Ben Israel, he looked as
amused as a mischievous monkey.

1 You will do as you like,' remarked
Mohammed Sebekh at length ; ' but I
warn you, it may be some time before
you will have another opportunity of sending
a letter.'

I trust that man with no letter of
mine,' returned Jack curtly, and, saluting
the chief, he turned and left the tent.

I SHALL NEVER FORGET YOU, ZELNE.'

Jack Cuxwold abided stubbornly by his
expressed resolve. It surely could not belong
before he had an opportunity of communicating
with his friends ; besides, he
had experience of the mysterious way in
which news spread in the East, and was
not without hope that intelligence of his
captivity would speedily reach Korti. Mohammed
Sebekh seemed quite positive
that Khartoum had fallen, and yet when
Jack left the banks of the Nile, none of
them were aware of Gordon's fate. Sir
Charles Wilson had not even left 
when he came away. Still he
mistrusted the Jew, and Selves warning

only confirmed him in this opinion. His
impression was that Ben Israel would seize
upon any money that might pass through
his hands, but would be utterly indifferent
about procuring his release. During the
short time of their halt, he noticed that
worthy was upon extremely friendly terms
with the Sheikh ; and from what he had
gathered, Jack rapidly came to the conclusion
that Front de Boeuf was a regular
trimmer, and only awaiting events to take
part with the winning side ; equally ready
to fall upon the flank of Wilson's shattered
column, if it met with disaster, or to
join with the Mahdi in the plundering of
Khartoum.

Yes,' said Jack to himself, ' Front de
Boeufs aspect is warlike, and his manners
stately ; but appearances are deceitful.
His grandiloquent speech took me in at
first. I thought him a grand type of
mediaeval chivalry, brave as his sword,
and a man whose word was his bond, but
I regret to say that I begin to think
Zelne's father is a mendacious, double-faced

cateran, quite of the old Highland
type. I should fancy thieving, cattle-lifting,
and black-mailing passing caravans,
were his chief avocations.'

After a halt of a good twenty-four
hours, Ben Israel and his friends proceeded
on their journey.

You're wrong, Captain,' said the Jew,
as he mounted his camel, ' not to take my
offer. Be sure Khartoum has fallen, and
there is no more business to be done in
the Soudan. If your people get away,
they will be lucky. I hope we shall meet
again in Cairo.'

You impudent scoundrel ! ' replied
Jack. But the Jew made no reply, except
to smile and wave his hand, and again
stretched forth in the desert with his
companions.

Meanwhile the Halawins continued to
linger near the Wells of Bayuda. Jack
Cuxwold, at the time, had no idea of what
was the Sheikh's motive for remaining ;
but the fact was, Mohammed Sebekh was
awaiting the turn of events. He knew

perfectly well that his countrymen had
been badly beaten at Abu Klea, and
had failed to prevent the English from
reaching the Nile. He felt sure that the
English would go up to Khartoum before
they left, to discover Gordon's fate, and he
thought that during that time the Mahdi
would have rallied his forces, and, taking
advantage of his great superiority in
numbers, would yet again try conclusions
with the English ; and on the result of
that battle rested Mohammed Sebekh's
decision. If, as he fully anticipated, it
went against the English, then he and his
powerful tribe were prepared to swoop
down on the flank of the broken column,
and take part in its annihilation. If, on
the other hand, the English should be
victorious, then the crafty Sheikh had
made up his mind there would be no use
in his mixing himself up in this imbroglio.
These English, he knew, were a powerful
nation, with numbers of fighting men at
their disposal, and in their hour of victory
they might inflict bitter vengeance on

those who had warred against them, and
exact terrible atonement for the death of
their great Chief who had fallen at Khartoum.


But, as we know, Wilson had fought
his way up to that city, and ascertained
that Gordon was slain. Recovers Buller
had arrived at Metammeh with instructions,
now that Gordon's fate was ascertained,
to withdraw the column as speedily
as might be ; and the Mahdi's men had
been too roughly handled lately to as
yet venture to interfere with the foe on
his retreat. Contrary to all Mohammed
Sebekh's calculations, the news reached
him that the English were retreating
pursued, and had actually once more
reached the Wells of Jakdul. It was his
own scouts who brought him this intelligence,
for it may be remembered he was
only a long day's ride from that place.
As Jack had surmised, his fate by this
time had, to some extent, become known.
It was perfectly clear that he had left
Metammeh with despatches, that he had

never been seen at the Wells of Jakdul
by the detachment there, and that he had
never arrived at Korti ; that he had fallen
into the hands of the Arabs was obvious,
and already inquiries were being made
about him, although with small hope of
his ever being heard of alive again.
The war had been conducted in such
sanguinary fashion, the Arabs neither
asking nor giving quarter, that it was
scarce likely he had been spared, and
for the present Jack Cuxwold figured in
the returns under the ominous list of
1 missing.'

During these two or three weeks Jack
became on excellent terms both with his
host and his host's daughter. The Sheikh
kept up all the stately air of a great noble,
and a very mirror of chivalry, but the
marauding side of his character constantly
cropped up, and upon one occasion he
told Jack in confidence that he had been
foolish in not placing a far higher price
upon him.

1 I have paid you a very bad compliment,

Effendi, in not naming a much
higher sum for your ransom. You are
not only a great chief amongst your
warriors, but also you belong to one of
your great English houses. Ben Israel
told me all about you.'

I should like to twist that little miscreant's
neck,' muttered Jack, between his
teeth. ' You mistake, Sheikh,' he said
aloud. ' True, my father is a noble, but
he is a poor man. As you know, it is
not the best born always who are the
wealthiest.'

I have no doubt he has broad lands
and large herds,' said the Sheikh sententiously
; ' and he will willingly spare of
his herds to have his son safe back with
him. In a few days now, I will send a
messenger to Korti, so have your letter
ready.'

All right,' replied Jack. ' And now,
Sheikh, I should like to ask you one
question : — Where did you get your
armour ? '

1 It has been in my family for centuries,

and passed down regularly from
father to son. There is a tradition that
my ancestors brought it with them from
across the sea many hundred years ago,
when they were at war with some of
your western tribes, who all wore such
protection in battle.'

It is beautifully made,' remarked Jack.

The Sheikh glanced down at his shirt
of mail in unmistakable pride, and said, —

1 Yes ; it will turn either spear or sword ;
and I have the horse furniture to match.'

1 I suppose you set very high value on
your horses ? ' said Jack ; ' you Arabs are
famous for them, you know. No doubt
yours are of some celebrated breed ? '

They are of the pure blood of the
desert — the famous Nedgid race ; swift
as the wind, and tireless as the wolf.
You English have no such horses as we

own.'

1 Oh, come, Sheikh ; I like that,' retorted
Jack Cuxwold, who could not stand
this imputation on English horseflesh.
1 Why, an English thoroughbred would

VOL. II. I

simply make the best you've got lie
down, over either one mile or ten ! '

The Sheikh shook his head incredulously.


Bismillah ! ' he exclaimed ; ' you talk
of what you know not. None of your
English horses can match with the pure-born
steeds of the desert.'

Well, if I only had a good thoroughbred,
here, Sheikh, I'd ask nothing better
than to make a match with you.'

Race with me ! It is a pity you
cannot.'

Ben Israel's malicious story had spread
amongst the Halawins, and the whole
tribe, from the Sheikh downwards, believed
that Jack was a great English
noble. The Jew had told Mohammed
Sebekh that his captive was a man of
great consequence, chiefly out of spite
because Cuxwold had refused to employ
him in the negotiation of his ransom.
Though he had disappeared after the
murder, he had not left Cairo, and had
made many inquiries about the two Englishmen,

and had ascertained that Jack
was what is vaguely termed in the East
an English lord ; and his rank and position
he now purposely exaggerated, for
the reason above stated. Of course Zelne
speedily became aware of this rumour, and
it raised Jack still higher in her esteem.
The chiefs of the desert place a high
value on their descent, and think much
of purity of race, both in themselves and
their horses. A woman will always take
an interest in a man whose life she has
saved, and none the less because he happened
to be young and good looking.
The whole tribe now treated Jack with
much consideration, and looked upon it
that his rank in his own country warranted
his associating with the Sheikh's
daughter, so Jack and Zelne were left
a good deal to their own devices.

Will my lord be very pleased when
the time comes to return to his own
people ? '

Naturally replied Jack. ' If you
were among strangers, would you not

also be glad to return to the tents of the
Halawins ? '

My lord is anxious to once more gaze
upon his wives ? ' replied the girl.

Not altogether,' rejoined Jack; 'considering
I have none. Besides, Zelne, weare
not quite so liberal in these matters
as you are. It is contrary to our custom
and religion to have more than one wife.'

It is so with us sometimes,' replied
the girl, after a pause, ' but our law allows
more. Will you go back at once to your
own country, or shall you still tarry in
Egypt ? You see you were unable to
save your great chief at Khartoum, and
you will never conquer us Arabs.

I am not sure, Zelne, that we much
want to ; but though we may leave the
Soudan, I don't think we shall leave
Egypt for some time.'

And will my lord ever come back to
visit his friends in the desert ? '

It's all very well, Zelne. I owe you
my life, and shall never forget it ; but
your father is rather an expensive man

to pay a visit to ! He don't condescend to
items, but he has put a pretty big price
upon his hospitality.'

'Ah rejoined the girl, as a pained expression
swept across her face, ' I wish it
were not so. A short time back, and the
stranger who sought our tents would have
shared what he had ; and when he left us,
we should have prayed Allah to speed him
on his way. We had quarrels amongst
ourselves, it is true, but it is you strangers
who make all the mischief in our country.'

1 How do you make that out ? ' inquired
Jack.

You come into the Soudan, to which
you had no right. The Egyptians pretend
that they have conquered it, and you
send pashas to lead them ; and then you
interfere with our customs.'

How so ? ' asked Jack.

We have made slaves from time immemorial.
It is our custom — allowed
by our religion. The negroes were born
to be the slaves of the Arabs, and you
say it shall not be so.'

Jack Cuxwold felt that it would be useless
to argue the question of slavery with
this proud Arab girl, who evidently believed
that the negroes were a most inferior
race, and that the kidnapping and
selling of them was a lawful industry.

1 Yes,' continued Zelne, ' you hinder us
from making money, and that makes our
sheikhs rapacious. I would it were not so.
Father was not greedy of money once.'

Zelne no doubt believed that she was
speaking the honest truth about Mohammed
Sebekh ; but the facts of the
case were, that in those days she had
been too young to be cognisant of his
doings, the Sheikh having been a levier
of black-mail from his youth up.

When shall we leave here ? ' observed
Jack, with a view to changing the subject.

In a few days now, I think. Some of
our men brought in word last night that
you English were on your way back to
Korti.'

1 Then it seems,' said Cuxwold, ' that
they will get back after all.'

• I don't know,' replied the girl. ' They
are a long way from Korti yet. It is
natural you should be glad your countrymen
are safe. Shall you be very pleased
to rejoin them ? ' and Zelne gazed wistfully
into his face, as she asked the
question.

1 Never mind talking about that, Zelne,
dear,' answered Jack, a little diplomatically,
and thinking how fair a picture the
girl made, in her silk-embroidered jacket,
tunic-like skirt, and flowing trousers. ' I
am not likely to leave you for some time.'

It won't be very long,' said the girl, as
she shook her head sadly. ' Father will
be too anxious to get possession of your
ransom, not to make an opportunity for
you to communicate with your friends erelong.'


And suppose he does,' replied Jack ;
1 even if my friends are willing to pay that
money for me, it will take them some time
to collect it.'

The girl laughed merrily.

Do not mock your poor Zelne. Such

a sum as that seems much to the poor
Arab, but it is nothing to my lord, who
owns many flocks and herds.'

You are wrong, Zelne,' replied Jack.
1 I am not a rich man ; but,' he said, drawing
the girl nearer to him, ' I shall be very
sorry to leave my preserver, — to say goodbye
to the sweet girl who has lightened
my captivity. I shall never forget you,
Zelne ; and you will think of me sometimes,
too, will you not ?'

I shall never forget my lord,' said the
girl, weeping, and the dark eyes gazed up into
his, brimming with love and devotion.

Of course he shouldn't have done it.
He was more than half in love with a girl
in England. He was laying the seeds of
a sore heart for one to whom he owed a
debt he could never repay. He was likely
to involve himself in a great scrape, and,
perchance, pay for his folly with his life,
and yet Jack did what I suppose nineteen
men out of twenty would have done, —
clasped the Arab maiden in his arms, and
pressed his lips passionately to hers.

REPORTED MISSING.

The telegrams from the Soudan were
watched with feverish interest at Knight-shades.
Was not the younger scion of the
house in the thick of the fray ? and after
the fierce fighting round Suakim, in the
previous year, no one doubted that the
dash across the desert would be hotly contested.
As is often the case, Jack Cuckold
was perhaps the best-loved son of his
parents ; and with his sisters, he certainly
took higher rank in their affections than
his elder brother. Jack's bright, good-tempered
nature was more likely to ingratiate
him with his fellows than the
somewhat cynical disposition of Lord
Darted ; and with women, Jack was vino



variably a favourite. Besides all this,
with the Countess he held the claim of
being her younger son ; and with the Earl,
the invaluable recommendation of being
not nearly so exacting in his demands for
money as his brother. The news of Abu
Klea was flashed across the wires with
the sad tidings of how some of our best

«z>

and bravest had met their doom. Then
came the bloody struggle of Abu Kru, and
the wires told how our men battled their
way to the Nile. With anxious eyes and
beating hearts the ladies at Knigthshayes
scanned the dreaded telegrams. j\j ,
hurrah ! Jack was all right so far ; his
name was not among those terrible lists
of killed and wounded. However, it
wasn't all over yet. The column had got
to go to Khartoum, and how that was to
be accomplished, was by the main portion
of the British public not in the least understood.
Then came the intelligence that
Khartoum had fallen, and that the indomitable
Gordon was slain. Too late,
too late ! and a wail went through the

country when it knew that the hero to
save whom so many lives had been dauntlessly
laid down, had perished.

With a feeling of relief, the nation learnt
that Lord Wolseley had issued orders for
the prompt return of the column to Korti,
and with anxious eyes it looked for news
that the backward march had been accomplished
without further fighting. Gordon
was dead ; let us have no more waste of
life and money, and, in Heaven's name,
let us wash our hands of the Soudan !
The electric wire reports the safe arrival
of the column at Jakdul, — that there is no
fear of further fighting, but ah ! there is a
line at the bottom of the telegram, which
blanches the Countess's cheek, and makes
her heart stand still.

6 We regret to say that Captain Cuckold,
who started with despatches from
Metammeh, on the night of the twentieth,
has not since been heard of.'

She had flown with the paper to her
husband, and, pointing to the telegram,
said, in a low voice,—

1 What does it mean, Rank ? Do you
think he is killed ? '

The Earl glanced at the paper for a
moment, and then replied, —

1 It looks very bad, but we must hope
for the best. I shall run up to town by
the next train, and see if I can learn
anything more at the War Office.'

Of all the terrible records of the battlefield
that those to whom he is dear have
to read, none, perhaps, is more heart-sickening,
and carries more desolation of
woe with it, than the dread return of
'missing.' If the loved one is amongst
the killed, there's nought to be done but
weep o'er his memory. If he is amongst
the wounded, a few weeks' suspense, and
it terminates in joy or sadness ; but missing,
alas ! so often proves that hope deferred
that maketh the heart so sorely
sick, — most sorrowful of all, perhaps,
when, despite weary waiting, the missing
man's fate is never ascertained.

Then the Countess in her misery sought
Alec Flood, who was still staying at

Knightshayes. He was constantly apologising
for the positively unreasonable
length of his visit ; but not only was he
an immense favourite with them all, and
one, moreover, by no means easy to lay
hands on, but I think that the Countess
and her daughters had a tolerable inkling
of what it was that induced the prolonged
stay of this irreclaimable Bedouin.

Flood at once announced his intention
of accompanying the Earl to town.

1 My dear Lady Ranksborow,' he said,
'Jack, you know, is the dearest friend I
have, and I may be of use in this matter ;
and, let the chance be ever so slight, I
would not for the world miss it. You see
I've wandered a good deal in the East,
and have many acquaintances in those
parts. I will telegraph to some of the
traders I know on the Upper Nile. I
have no doubt I shall get news of Jack
sooner or later ; but remember, Countess,
don't be disheartened because we get no
news for some weeks. Every week that
passes, adds to the chance that he is alive,

though a prisoner. I know the Arabs
well. If he was not killed on first falling
into their hands, the probability is his
life will be spared ; and if he was, we shall
soon hear of it. That sort of news flies
fast in the desert. Rely upon it, I will
never rest till his fate is cleared up, even
if I have to go to the Soudan for the
purpose.'

But the papers were read at Temple
Rising as well as at Knightshayes, and
there was another face which, although the
owner uttered never a word, turned almost
as pale as the Countess's when she read
that fatal telegram. No love words had
ever been exchanged between Lucy and
Jack Cuxwold, but he had made a very
deep impression on her during the Cairo
episode.

Then she had followed his career in the
Soudan with the deepest interest, and,
girl-like, had magnified his deeds there,
and pictured him to herself as a very
paladin. She was always leading on Alec
Flood to talk about his friend, and Alec

had many a story to tell of Jack's readiness
in resource, and sang froid in difficulties,
which served to fan the flame.
Love may be described as a passion
which invariably leads the opposite sexes
to invest each other with attributes which
they neither of them possess. And though
Jack was a very good specimen of the
light-hearted dragoon, he would have been
much amazed could he have known the
pedestal upon which Lucy had placed him.
Perhaps, could that young lady's vision
have extended to the tents of the Hala-wins,
her views might have undergone
considerable modification. The whole
family at Temple Rising were aware
that Captain Cuxwold was among the
missing, and knew that this must be a
source of terrible trouble to the Knight-shades
people.

That, with the exception of Lucy, the
Bramtons could feel much grievous anxiety
about Jack Cuxwold's probable fate, could
hardly be expected. They sympathised in
the sorrow of the Ranksborow family, as

all kind-hearted people naturally would,
and it was resolved, in a family council,
that a note expressing that sympathy and
their sincere hopes that intelligence of the
missing man would shortly arrive, should
be sent over to Knightshayes; Miss Brandon,
as usual, undertaking to write it, for
that young lady had gradually constituted
herself the sole arbiter of social tactics at
Temple Rising. True, Lucy asserted herself
occasionally, and then her sister knew
better than to oppose her, for, under her
somewhat quiet exterior, Lucy carried a
very resolute will of her own, and upon
this occasion the girl chose to supplement
Miss Bramton's highly-monogrammed
epistle to the Countess, with a short note
of her own addressed to Alec Flood.

The groom speedily returned, with a
line of thanks from Lady Jane Cuxwold,
on her mother's behalf, and an intimation
that the Earl and Mr Flood had gone
to town to ascertain what information the
authorities really were in possession of.
Two or three days passed, the Earl had

returned to Knightshayes, but it was
known through the neighbourhood that
he had brought back no consolation with
him. Captain Cuxwold's fate was still a
mystery. Lucy had received no reply to
her note, but was aware that Flood had
not returned with the Earl.

She was sitting alone in the drawing-room,
one February afternoon, her mother
and sister having driven in to Wroxeter
for shopping purposes, when the butler
threw open the door, and, a little to her
surprise, announced ' Mr Flood.'

1 Why, when did you get back ? ' she
exclaimed, as she rose to greet him ; ' and
do you bring good news with you ? '

Alec shook his head as he replied, —

I only got back to Knightshayes last
night, when I found your note, and I'm
here to answer it in person. I lingered
in London to push inquiries in every
direction I could think of.'

1 Is there no hope ? ' she inquired
anxiously. And had it not been for the
fading light of the winter afternoon, the

VOL. II. K

pallor of her cheeks must have attracted
Flood's attention.

'Ah, yes,' he replied; 'pray don't think
that. The authorities have told us all
they know as yet ; but we need not altogether
despair. That Jack left with despatches
; as the telegraph stated, is quite
true, as it is also that he never arrived at
Korti, nor has he ever been seen since ;
but then, on the other hand, there is no
rumour whatever of a solitary British
officer having been killed in the desert,
and my own impression is that he is a
prisoner in the hands of some roving
band of Arabs.'

'Is his life safe, do you think?' asked
Lucy, somewhat eagerly.

Yes ; if my surmise is true, I should
say so. You see they can make money
by holding him to ransom, and that will
prove a safeguard to him.'

'You're a true friend to him, Mr Flood,
and, I feel certain, if he is a captive, will
leave no stone unturned to obtain his
release. Yes,' she continued, interrupting

him, as he was about to speak, ' I know
perfectly well that Lord Ranksborow will
do all he can — one does not want to belong
acquainted with the family, to see
how very fond they all are of him — but
the Earl does not understand the ways of
the Arabs as you do. Humanly speaking,
his trust is in you, and I think you would
be true as steel to a comrade.'

I hope so,' said Flood ; ' not that there
is very much credit in that. If your
"pals" don't stand by you in a scrape,
they're not of much account. I'm glad,
though, you think that of me. I wonder
whether I can make you believe something
more.'

Oh ! ' exclaimed the girl, with a rather
forced hilarity, ' don't try my credulity
too far.'

It's not much strain upon a girl's
belief, when a man speaks seriously to
her upon one point.'

No,' she interposed hurriedly ; ' but
there are things better left unsaid, — serious
subjects better not touched upon.'

"&

1 I can't help that, Lucy,' he replied.
1 I'm not an emotional man, but what
I've got in my heart, I'm determined to
say, although I must own you have given
me scant encouragement. Lucy, I love
you. I don't want an answer now, but
do you think you can ever love me well
enough to be my wife ? '

1 Oh, Mr Flood, how could you ? ' cried

the girl. ' I like you so much, and I tried

so hard to prevent your speaking. Yes,

an answer you must have, and at once. It

cannot be. I shall regard you always, if

you will permit me, as one of my best and

dearest friends, but I cannot be your wife.'

I am too late, I suppose,' rejoined

Flood sadly ; ' and yet I had thought that

there was no one about here that you

seemed to care about.'

Unfair, unfair,' she cried. 'You have
no right to demand more than a frank
and honest answer to your question. I
esteem, and ever shall esteem, you highly ;
but it can never be, and I can only thank
you for the compliment you have paid me.'

Flood rose to take his departure, and
as he wished her good-bye, she put her
hand frankly into his, and said, in low,
earnest tones, —

Friends ever ; is it not so ? '

1 Yes,' he rejoined, as he pressed her
hand ; ' if it may be no better. Goodbye,
and God bless you.'

Flood pondered over his defeat as he
rode slowly home.

It is the first time I ever coveted a
woman's love,' he muttered. ' It's the old
story, I suppose. There are men born
that ever hanker after the grapes beyond
their reach, and that I am one of them ;
and yet I thought my chance a fair one,
till I began to speak. Well, it is best I
did. There's nothing to be ashamed of
in having honestly loved a girl like that.
If she sees fit to change her mind, a
woman can always easily let you know
she has done so ; but no, she is not that
sort. She seemed to take a tremendous
interest in poor Jack's fate. I wonder —
by heavens, I believe it is so ! Can it be

that she has lost her heart to Jack Cuckold
? Now I remember, she never tires
of talking about him. It's possible that
in that short time at Cairo something
passed between them. They saw a good
deal of each other ; but she has never
mentioned having heard of him between
then and meeting me at Newmarket. Ah
well,' continued Alec Flood, with a grim
smile, ' if Jack was first in the field, that
would account for my defeat. I was a
dullard not to have seen it, when she
tried to prevent my having it out with
her. She's straightforward and true, anyway.
Time I cut all the western so-called
civilisation and went back to the glorious
dreamy life of the East, where telegrams
and even newspapers are nearly unknown
; where you are seldom pestered
with letters, and never with conventional
visitors. Yes, that girl was right. What
had a vagrant like me to do with respectability
and matrimony ? Think I'll go
back to Egypt, and find out what has
become of dear old Jack.'

'WHAT NONSENSE YOU TALK ! '

The Bramtons were regarded with somewhat
mixed feelings by the Knightshayes
family. Had it not been for his turf
policy, it is highly probable that neither
the Earl nor Lady Ranksborow would
have endured the irreclaimable vulgarity
of John Bramton and his wife for a
moment ; but when you knew them, they
were such thoroughly good-hearted, hospitable
people, that one was apt to condone
their solecisms. As for Lord Dartree
and his sisters, the consigne had gone forth
that they were to be civil to the Britons.
The eldest son of the house quite
admitted the expediency of doing as his

father wished, but the Ladies Cuxwold
were much exercised in their minds for
the reason of taking up such people. They
didn't so much mind Mr and Mrs Brandon,
and they really had got quite fond
of Lucy, but they most decidedly disliked
Matilda. They did not deny but that she
was a pretty, ladylike girl enough, but
they thought she was a very pretentious
one. Miss Bramton decidedly gave herself
airs ! Her parents were good-natured,
honest vulgarians, but in her there was
a certain amount of ingrained snobbishness,
if I may be allowed the term with
reference to a young lady. As for
Lord Dartree, Miss Bramton amused
him a good deal : his flirtation with her
had progressed apace. Matilda Bramton
was possessed of unbounded faith in
her own attractions, and she coquetted
boldly with both him and Sir Kenneth,
and would have laughed to scorn anyone
who had presumed to tell her that
the choice of her two admirers was not
at her own discretion.

But though Miss Bramton had her own
hands pretty full, she still had time to keep
an eye upon what she was pleased to call
her sister's flirtations, and had more than
once rallied Lucy about her tendresse for
Mr Flood. When Lucy assured her that
there was nothing in it, — that she and
Alec Flood were good friends, and nothing
more, Miss Bramton rejoined haughtily,
I should hope so.'

Mr Flood, my dear, is, of course, all
very well to amuse yourself with, but I
should hope, when it comes to seriously
settling in life, that you can do better for
yourself than that.'

Miss Bramton's vanity utterly precluded
the idea that any man could possibly presume
to amuse himself at her expense, but
she nevertheless held to her own opinion
of Alec Flood being in genuine earnest as
regards her sister, and, as we know, she
was right.

1 It's a great nuisance,' said Miss Brandon,
on her return from her drive, ' this
business of poor Captain Cuxwold.'

1 Well,' replied Lucy hotly, * that is not
the term exactly to apply to it. The poor
fellow has given up his life, in all probability,
as so many more of them have
done out there.'

Ah ! by the way, I forgot for the
moment that you knew him, and that he
was rather civil to you that time in Cairo.
I'm sure I'm sorry enough for him, considering
I never set eyes on him. What
I mean is this, that it will terribly break up
our party at W T exeter Race Ball. I heard
this afternoon that the Ranksborows, unless
they have good news, have determined
not to be present.'

I hadn't thought of it before,' rejoined
Lucy ; ' but, of course, it's not likely.'

'It's a great bore!' exclaimed Matilda
Bramton, as she threw herself into an
arm-chair. ' It will take away half the fun
of the thing. Knightshayes was to have
been full for the occasion, and they were
coming in quite a strong party to Wroxeter.
Now Lord Dartree tells me it is all
knocked on the head.'

1 You saw him to-day then ? ' said Lucy.

Yes ; he was in Wroxeter ; and he also
told me that if they had bad news about his
brother, he should not even run his horse
for the steeplechase. In fact, all the fun
will be out of the thing. It is most unfortunate
! '

Miss Bramton was not more selfish than
her sisters generally, but when a death interferes
with our amusements — I am talking,
remember, of the death of a person of
whom we have no personal knowledge — I
think we are apt to feel more sorry for our
own disappointment, than for the affliction
of the relations, even though they befriends
of our own.

Well,' replied Lucy, ' we needn't go ;
and, if you don't think it will be pleasant,
perhaps we had better not. It would be a
graceful mark of sympathy to the Ranks-brow
family.'

1 What nonsense you talk ! ' cried Miss
Bramton pettishly. ' Of course we must
go. It would never do for people of our
position in the county to stay away upon

such an occasion. Because the Ranks-brows
can't go, it is just the more reason
we must.'

This was just one of the speeches which
Miss Bramton was in the habit of making,
and which filled the breasts of the Ladies
Cuxwold with mixed amusement and indignation.
Eldest daughter of a parian
of little more than a year's standing in the
county, Miss Bramton was always vapouring
about their county position. John
Bramton posing as a sporting man moved
them to laughter, but his daughter claiming
the position of the ruined Molyneuxs,
jarred terribly on their feelings.

For the next two or three days, telegrams
came pretty thick to Knightshayes,
for Alec Flood, and one morning at lunchtime
he said calmly, —

'I am off to London tomorrow, Lady
Ranksborow, and to Cairo the next day.
I've just received a most lengthy telegram
from the Standard office. While in London,
I got them to allow me to telegraph
to their correspondent in the Soudan,

to make all inquiries concerning poor Jack,
and the return wire has just come to hand.
It is so far satisfactory, that it confirms my
hope that he is merely a prisoner. If that
is so, his release is a question of money
and arrangement. I've had a long talk
with the Earl, and all that can be done
about that in this country, we have settled
between us.'

God bless you, Alec,' said the Countess,
as she pressed his hand. ' It is very good
of you to go ; but I know to serve any of
us, and more especially Jack, we can always
rely upon you.'

I shall ride over to Temple Rising,
and say good-bye to them there this
afternoon ; and tomorrow I'll bid you
all good-bye ; and when I see you again,
God grant I shall bring back the stray
sheep with me.'

The women pressed round him, and
made much of him during that meal. As
Alec said, 'No man starting for a trip
up the Mediterranean ever was made such
a fuss with They accompanied him

to the hall door even, when he went to get
on his hat, and the Countess whispered
in his ear, ' May good fortune attend
you.' While Lady Emily murmured to
her sister, — ' If Lucy Bramton is such a
fool as to say him no, she never deserves
to be asked by a good fellow again.'

You see they all thought they knew what
it was that took Alec Flood to Temple
Rising, and little dreamt Alec had put
his fate to the test some days before, and
sadly regarded Lucy's decision as final.

1 I must be pretty far gone,' he muttered,
as he rode across the park, ' when all
the women can see the state of the case.
However, it's no use ; if I have guessed
aright, Lucy Bramton's heart is no longer
in her own keeping. Well, if I can rescue
my old chum from the hands of the
Arabs, she'll owe me a debt of gratitude,
and with that I must be perforce content.
There's nothing like having some hardwork
before one to make one forget the
disappointments of life, and it is possible
I may have to wander about in the desert,

after the manner of the children of Israel,
before I clear up poor Jack's fate

Upon his arrival at Temple Rising,
Alec Flood was, of course, overwhelmed
with questions on the subject of Captain
Cuxwold. Had anything been heard of
him ? Was there any news whatever ?
The family were dreadfully cut up, of
course. And then Miss Bramton could
not help reverting to her old mournful
cry, to wit, that it would be the ruin of
the Wroxeter Ball, though the slightly
contemptuous expression that swept fora
moment across Flood's face, warned
her not to continue in that strain. Then
Flood briefly acquainted them that he had
come to say good-bye, and that he was
off to Cairo the next morning, with a view
to discovering what had become of Jack
Cuxwold. His adieux were soon made,
though he detained Lucy's hand in his
perhaps a little longer than was necessary.
' Remember, friends ever,' she said,
in a low tone, and Alec bowed his head
in silent assent.

A fortnight later, and he was once more
standing in the verandah of Shepheard's
Hotel, and wondering how best to prosecute
his search. He had, of course, been r
within a few hours of his arrival, to the
military authorities, who regretted deeply
that no intelligence of any kind had been
received regarding Captain Cuxwold. Suddenly
he became conscious that he was
being watched by a little, slight, wiry man,
whose piercing black eyes seemed riveted
upon him. Flood returned the stare with
interest, and in another minute or two recollection
dawned upon him. ' The villainous
gambling-house tout,' he muttered,
who lured us off to his den, the night
Dick Bramton was killed.'

In an instant he had strode across to
the pillar against which the man was leaning,
and said, —

So, sir, we meet again. I have never
set eyes on you since the night — '

Hush ! ' interrupted the other deprecatingly.
' It was not my fault. I could
not help the row. The Englishman, he

lose his money, he lose his temper. He
call the other players liars, cheats. Ah !
what wonder blows were struck ; and in
these parts men use the knife. I had to
hide, or they would have put me in prison.'

4 And a deuced good thing too,' rejoined
Flood. ' You would have been where
I've not the slightest doubt you deserved
to be, and have often been before.'

1 No, it was not me. I declare it was
not me who struck the Englishman ; but,
bah ! this is not business. I have something
to tell you.'

And think, perhaps, that I am going to
be fool enough to accompany you into
some confounded den or other to look
at it.'

No, Mr Flood.'

1 Ah ! you know my name ; how is
that?'

I was dragoman to Sir John Kenyon,
when you travelled up the Nile with him
three or four years ago.'

1 I thought I recollected your face last
March ! ' exclaimed Flood ; and then he

VOL. II. L

remembered that Kenyon had a dragoman
of very doubtful honesty in his employ.

What would you give,' asked Ben
Israel, ' to know where the Captain who
was with you that time, is now ? You
pay well for that, eh ? '

1 Do you mean to say that you know
where Captain Cuxwold is ? ' exclaimed
Flood.

Ben Israel nodded.

You pay me well, I tell you. What
you give ? '

I will give you a ten-pound note now,
and one hundred more, should your information
prove true.'

1 Ah ! it is too little. His friends would
surely give more than that to know what
is come of him.'

That is quite enough to pay you,' replied
Flood, 'simply to learn the details
of his murder.'

Ah ! but he is not dead ; he is alive.
What you pay to know where he is now ? '

1 I will give you ten pounds, and two
hundred if your information prove correct.'

It is too little,' replied Ben Israel,
shaking his head. ' He is alive ; I saw
him three weeks ago

I'll give you no more,' rejoined Flood.
4 If he really is alive, I shall speedily get
information from some other source. In
the meantime, you had best remember
the kurbash is not altogether abolished.'

Ben Israel, though he had a very great
regard for his own hide, was not much influenced
by this threat. He knew that
the English now ruled in Cairo, and that
the use of the kttrbash was much restricted.
But what did bear upon his
mind was Flood's suggestion that he
might get his information from other
sources. His cupidity was struggling
with the too probable realisation of that
coming to pass. He knew Mohammed
Sebekh far too well to suppose that he
would not endeavour ' to realise his
prisoner' as soon as possible. If he
did not snatch at this opportunity, he
would very possibly obtain nothing, and
the man had been consistent through life

in endeavouring to fill his own pockets
at the expense of his neighbours.

Well, sir,' said the ex-dragoman, ' it's
very little for such news as I bring you ;
but I must take It and the man held out
his hand.

Flood took a note-case from the breast-pocket
of his coat, and, producing an
English ten-pound note, put it into Ben
Israel's hand, saying, as he did so, —

There ; the two hundred pounds shall
be paid you here, personally, or at any
address you may name, as soon as I
have ascertained that your information is
correct.'

Good ! ' replied the other. ' That is
the address to which please pay the
money. The Captain is in the hands
of the Halawin tribe of the Bavaria
Arabs.'

What is the name of their sheikh ?
and where shall I find them ? '

Mohammed Sebekh. And they will
most likely be now somewhere between
Korti and Berber.'

'And his life, I presume, is quite safe in
their hands ? '

Chut ! ' rejoined Ben Israel, with a
rapid gesture of his hands. ' Mohammed
looks to selling him his liberty. He loves
money.'

1 Ah ! I understand,' said Flood ; ' he
holds Cuxwold up for ransom.'

Yes ! Cunning old fox, Mohammed !
He will want a deal of money for the
Captain.'

That's a matter that doesn't concern
you,' said Flood sharply. ' If your information
prove correct, you will have the
remainder of your money ; ' and then, with
a short nod of dismissal, he turned on his
heel and walked into the hotel.

Two things to be settled at once,'
thought Flood. ' First, to telegraph to
Knightshayes that Jack is all safe, though
a prisoner ; and, secondly, whether I had
better make my way to Suakim or Korti.'

MR NOEL LAYS LONG ODDS.

It is close upon the verge of the racing-season.
Already the acceptances are out
for the Lincolnshire Handicap and the
Grand National, and speculation on both
events is spirited and heavy. The Derby,
too, comes in for a fair share of attention
at intervals. Notably is there a strong
disposition to lay against the favourite ;
and yet those connected with him declare
that Damocles has wintered well. M
James Noel is still a persistent opponent
of that noble animal ; indeed his brethren
of the ring vow he must be in possession
of some exclusive information, to bet
against him in the way he does. The

Earl of Ranksborow, albeit well used to
battling with the bookmakers, and well
known as an impassive loser, begins to
wear a harassed expression. The Earl
not only had never stood to win so large
a stake as he did over this Derby, but
the landing of it had never before been
of so dire a necessity. In good truth,
the Earl was most desperately pressed
for money, and, as he brooded over the
state of his affairs in his own den, began
to think he should share the fate of his
friend Molyneux, and that the broad
lands of Knightshayes would come to
the hammer. He had received Flood's
telegram, which had spread great joy
through the house of Ranksborow ; but
Lord Ranksborow grimly reflected that
Jack was held to ransom. Flood, before
leaving, had warned him that that would
probably be the case, and, further, that
the sum named would be probably very
considerable ; what, of course, the Earl
did not know, but he did know that it
was most difficult to find money to carry

<3

on with, and that this supplementary sum
would be something like the proverbial
last straw. True, Flood, who was perfectly
aware of his host's embarrassments,
had offered, in the most delicate way, to
assist in making up whatever might be
required ; but of course Alec Flood would
have to be repaid, and how that was to
be managed he couldn't for the life of
him see. If this coup would only come
off, then he should pull through ; but he
mused sadly, — ' What man ever threw in
who called " a main," with his back
metaphorically to the wall ? ' And now
Damocles, just as speculation had begun
again, was travelling very badly in the
market. He had written to Stubber, and
received a reply that there was nothing
whatever wrong" with the colt. He had
written to Mr Skinner, and that gentleman
had written word that he could not
account for the hostility displayed towards
the favourite, unless it was the introduction
of Lucifer into the betting, and a
prevalent idea that Damocles was liable

to change hands at any moment. Then,
again, the Earl wondered what this backing
of Lucifer might portend. Stubber
had never said anything to him about
that colt. Could it be that he had any
pretensions to be a racehorse of the first
class ? True, he had won that race at
Newmarket in the autumn in a canter ;
but then his antagonists had been of very
moderate calibre ! Pooh ! it was all nonsense.
It was not likely that they had
another colt in the stable pretty near as
good as Damocles ! But if Lord Ranks-brow
was puzzled at the backing of
Lucifer, the trainer was infinitely more,
perplexed. Stubber, with the exception
of Mr Skinner, had confided to no one
the secret of what a good colt this was.
He had taken especial pains, when he
tried him, to prevent the result of that
trial leaking out. Now he and that worthy
had arranged that the way to make most
money out of these two colts, was to
reserve Lucifer for the St Leger. Mr
Stubber quite intended to thoroughly do

his duty by his employer, but as Mr Brandon
did not bet, he argued that, as long ashe
won both the Derby and Leger, it could
not matter to him with which horses he
won them ; and, as the commissioner had
pointed out, that arrangement would be
most conducive to their joint interests.
The trainer was kept in a state of perpetual
fidget by his employer. As he
confided to sympathetic friends, —

1 There's no knowing where to have
this Mr Bramton. When you trains fora
gentleman as owns he knows nothing
about it, why, of course, the best thing
he can do, and the thing he ought to dois
to leave it all to the trainer. But this
Mr Bramton, he's taking to shoving his oar
in ! I never get up in the morning without
feeling that maybe the 'losses will have
left my stable before night. He's always
talking of selling them, and though in his
last letter he said he had made up his
mind to keep Damocles, it's my belief he
don't know his own mind three days together.
Well, there's one comfort, whoever

is backing Lucifer, will burn his
fingers, if things are left to me.'

Could either Lord Ranksborow or Mr
Stubber have been present at an interview
that took place in one of the numerous
lodgings at Newmarket, towards the close
of the Houghton week, things would have
been all perfectly plain to them. Sim
Napper had come up there, in obedience
to a message from his uncle, Mr James
Noel, who, as he expressed it, ' wished
to have a talk with him.'

Now, Sim,' said the bookmaker, ' I
look upon you as my agent here, and I'm
bound to say you keep me pretty well
posted. What news you send is reliable,
and not merely hearsay! Now I've no
doubt that Damocles is the best of his
year, and that he will win at Epsom next
May, if all goes well with him. Now,
that would never suit my book, as things
stand at present. I'll pay for it, but remember
I must have very accurate information
of all that goes on in Stubber's
stable ! '

'I'll do my best, Uncle James; but
remember,' he added meaningly, ' I can't
prevent Damocles winning the Derby.'

1 No,' replied the bookmaker ; ' I'm not
likely to ask you to do that. Anything of
that sort is very awkward to be mixed up
in ! But, if I'm not very much mistaken,
they've got another pretty good colt in
that stable, in Lucifer. I don't for an instant
suppose he is as good as the crack,
but he's good enough to serve my turn.
What I mean is this : sometime during
the winter these two horses must change
places in the betting market. If anything
happened to Damocles, that confined him
to his box for a few days, it would go a
good way to assist my plans ! ' and here
Mr James Noel looked excessively hard
at his nephew. ' Luck stands to us at
times, in these things,' he continued. 'A
careless stable-boy leaves a window open
at night, and horses catch cold.'

Well ! ' rejoined Mr Napper, ' I can only
hope luck will befriend you. I can promise
you one thing, I'll do my best to keep you

accurately informed of the doings of
Stubber's horses ; by which I presume you
mean Damocles and Lucifer.'

Mr Noel nodded.

It will cost you some money, but not
so very much. If I can, I'll get hold of
the boy who looks after one or other of
them.'

'All right !' said Mr Noel. 'I can
trust all that and other arrangements to
you. I don't wish the horse any harm ;
and it would be like my luck, they are all
so beastly healthy when I bet against
them. Why, Til lay you five hundred
pounds to ten that Damocles hast even a
temporary ailment between this and next
May:

Well ! ' said Mr Napper, laughing,
'you can put that down. It's never fifty
to one against anything or anybody catching
cold during a winter and spring at
Newmarket.'

Now there's nothing,' said Mr Noel,
1 like turning a thing like this over from
every point of view. If I want Damocles

to go back in the betting, — to be what we
call pretty near " knocked out," it might
also suit me to pull the strings the other
way later on, and put pressure upon Mr
Bramton to ensure his starting. Now you
lawyer chaps are 'cute. Can that will business
we know of be brought to bear in anyway
? '

'Wait a bit till I think it out,' rejoined
Mr Napper, and for some minutes there
was a dead silence between them. At last
Sim Napper opened his lips and said, —
It's not very much of a chance, and remember,
it's a mere matter of bounce.
There's a young fellow here who claims to
be a legitimate son of Richard Bramton.
Son he may be, but I fancy he can't prove
his mother's marriage. Well, you could certainly
let Bramton know, before the race,
that his not running Damocles would be
regarded as a violation of the conditions of
the will, and that this young fellow, as heir-at-law,
would then dispute it. You are
giving him a friendly tip, mind. I could
arrange everything with Tom Robbins easy

enough ; but it all depends upon what sort
of chap this Bramton is. If he's a nervous,
timid sort, when he found you knew all
about the will, he'd sooner run the horse
than chance a lawsuit. If, on the other
hand, he is a cool, business-like fellow, he'll
tell you to go to the devil, and that he shall
do as he pleases. Legally, I don't think
you've a leg to stand on, even if Tom
Robbins could prove his mother's marriage.
It all depends on what sort of a
man Bramton is.'

I haven't an idea,' replied Mr Noel.
All I ever heard about him was that he
knew nothing of racing ; but Stubber, or
whoever manages for him, hasn't much to
learn.'

Perhaps you could find out,' said Mr
Napper. ' It all depends upon that. As
I said before, my idea is a mere game of
bounce.'

'Quite so, my boy,' rejoined Mr Noel
quietly ; ' and I landed the biggest stake I
ever won by bounce. It was in this way.
I had backed a horse for the Chester Cup

to win me a raker, and, about a week before
the race, found the owner and his
friends hadn't a piece on. The horse was
"put up" at Tattersall's, that is " what will
any one take about him for the race ? '
There was not a bid. The owner was
present, and I suddenly thundered out, —
Ten monkeys to one he don't start."
The owner shot me at once, and I had
the best race I ever had ; but if it hadn't
been for that bit of bounce on my part,
the horse would never have seen Chester.'

I suppose you stand to lose a lot
of money over Damocles ? ' said Mr
Napper.

Not near so much as you might suppose.
It's true I laid twenty thousand to
three hundred against him as a yearling,
but then I laid the same against a great
many more. I haven't got round, but I
shouldn't be hit very heavily. No ; if
Damocles was stopped in his work for a
few days — if we can get up a bit of a scare
so as to drive him to an outside price in
the market, then I should back him, and it

would very likely suit me better that he
should win than lose.'

I understand,' said Mr Napper ; ' and
I tell you, Uncle James, he will win if he
keeps well. I will keep a sharp look-out
on Lucifer ; but, though no doubt he's a
nice colt, depend upon it he's not so good
as the favourite.'

Perhaps not ; still he might prove a
good second string, if anything happened
to the favourite ; and, as you say, Newmarket
is a terribly catch-cold place,' and
here Mr Noel winkle pleasantly at his
precious nephew.

The conflicting interests that surround
the favourite for a big race are always
somewhat difficult to reconcile, and yet it
did seem at present as if it might be fairly
to the interest of every one concerned that
Damocles should win the Derby. Mr
Bramton, his nominal owner, desires the
colt to win, on account of the social importance
that will accrue to him, John Bramton.
Lucy, his real owner, wishes him to win,
for the honour and glory of the thing, and
VOL. 11. m

also because she knows it was the dying
desire of her dead uncle. Lord Ranks-brow
hopes for Damocles' success, as
offering the one possible hope of extrication
from the quagmire of financial difficulties
in which he is floundering. Stubber,
the trainer, is looking forward to both fame
in his calling and profit from the victory.
Even Mr Noel could be content to see the
colt triumphant, if only he could be driven
to a long price in the betting market for
two or three weeks ; but that if, when you
interfere with the natural course of events,
and take steps to bring it about, may be
fraught with circumstances beyond human
control.

Mr Skinner, still brooding over that to
him puzzling problem as to whose prompting
it was that Mr Bramton owed the inspiration
of keeping Lucifer, watches the
turf market like a cat, and takes speedy
cognisance of Mr Noel's operations therein.
Thoroughly initiated in all the mysteries
of bulling and bearing on the great turf
exchange of Tattersall's, and being further

in the confidence of Mr Stubber, the well-known
commissioner is somewhat staggered
at the determined hostility shown to
Damocles by Mr Noel and the little clique
of bookmakers of whom he is the guiding -
spirit. He knows the colt is well, and, as
all the racing world knows, on his two-year-old
form ought to be hailed winner of
the Blue Ribbon. He knows Mr Noel
and his following already stand to lose
heavily by his success. What can they be
going on ? On what ground do they still
steadfastly oppose Damocles for the Derby ?
Everything comes to him who knows how
to wait,' is a maxim especially applicable
to the unravelling of turf mysteries, and a
past master of those mysteries like Mr
Skinner felt little doubt that the cause of
this persistent ' bearing ' of the favourite
would be made manifest to him before long.
It was not that he stood to win any large
stake over the race on his own account at
present, but he knew what it meant to the
Earl of Ranksborow, and for past favours
he was anxious to pull his first patron

through, if possible. Add to which, he saw
his way into making a very good thing
out of the Epsom race and the St Leger.

Mr Skinner, therefore, at present is
keeping a vigilant eye upon Mr Noel,
whom, by the way, he cordially dislikes,
and his proceedings.

LORD Dartle E'S MISTAKE.

The Bramtons were all unfeignedly glad
when Lord Dartree brought the news of
his brother's safety to Temple Rising.
Lucy thanked Heaven that a life which
had grown strangely dear to her had
been, so far, mercifully spared, while as
for Matilda, she was thankful that it was
so, because she thought that now the
Ranksborows might be regarded as sure
to attend the Wroxeter ball, and Miss
Bramton had made up her mind that
was to eventuate in a great social triumph
on her part. She pictured herself
the belle of socially the crack party in the
room. She had had a ball dress made
expressly for the occasion, which, as she

said, ' was a very dream of loveliness.'
She knew that in the matter of good
looks she outshone the Ladies Cuxwold,
and though there were people who regarded
Lucy as the prettier of the two
sisters, they were in a minority, and
with that minority Matilda Bramton by
no means agreed. Mr Bramton was
glad that his neighbour had been spared
a severe domestic affliction, but his relations
with Lord Ranksborow had been a
little strained at their last interview, and
Mr Bramton had never forgotten that,
in his own vernacular, the Earl had
tried to ' best ' him about the purchase
of Damocles.

Well, Lord Dartree,' exclaimed Miss
Matilda, when she was made acquainted
with Captain Cuxwold's comparative
safety, ' now you have such much better
accounts from the Soudan, of course we
shall see you and your party at the
Wroxeter ball. Your brother's exchange
as a prisoner is, I presume, a mere
matter of a few weeks or so.'

Sorry to say it's not quite such plain
sailing as you think, Miss Bramton. You
see, these Arabs are not exactly civilised
enemies. They don't often make prisoners,
and, when they do, they don't part with
them except for a stiffish ransom.'

4 Mere brigands,' said Lucy, in low, earnest
tones, 'and like the Greek or Italian
bandits, capable of proceeding to extremities
if their rapacity is not speedily gratified.
Oh, it's too horrible ! Remember
the massacre of Marathon.'

1 For Heaven's sake, Miss Lucy, don't
suggest such a thing — at all events, don't
put such a parallel into the head of my
mother or sisters. The business is bad
enough, goodness knows, but Alec Flood
seems to think Jack is in no danger, although
he makes no disguise about his
release costing us dear.'

I don't want to be a prophetess of ill-omen,'
rejoined Lucy, 'but recollect there's
a ways terrible danger to the captives in
those cases. The wretches in whose hands
they are, wax impatient if their cupidity is

not promptly satisfied, or get suspicious
of being surrounded and made to pay the
penalty of their brigandage.'

1 Quite so,' replied Lord Dartree ; ' but
this is not exactly a case in point. Weare
at war with the Arabs of the Soudan.
They are not given to the making of
prisoners, but, when they do, to hold
them to ransom has been their custom
from time immemorial. Alec told us all
this before he started — '

'Just so,' interrupted Miss Bramton ;
1 and I have no doubt we shall hear of
Captain Cuxwold's release before a month
is over ! Lucy always takes the darkest
possible view of everything. So, Lord
Dartree, unless you have bad news between
this and then, you must promise
me to come to the ball.'

If you wish it,' rejoined Dartree, with
an admiring glance at the girl's handsome
face, ' why, it becomes a command.'

4 Of course I wish it,' answered Miss
Bramton promptly, with a coquettish flash
of her somewhat bold black eyes.

4 And you will promise me plenty of
dances ? '

You shall write your name down on
my programme for anything in reason
rejoined Miss Bramton, as she flashed
another look at him.'

No man could resist such temptation!'
cried Lord Dartree gaily ; ' and, providing
there's no bad news of Jack, it's a match.'

4 What ! without my consent ? ' exclaimed
John Bramton, who at that moment
entered the room. ' Pooh, my lord,
you must have bless you my children, and
all that sort of thing. But I suppose you
and Matilda have got to some of your
sporting nonsense ; but I say, gals, lunch
should be about ready, and his lordship
no doubt will come in and peck a bit.
Just ring, Lucy, will you?'

1 Papa is simply incorrigible,' murmured
Miss Bramton to herself.

What an irreclaimable vulgarian,'
thought Dartree, as he rejoined, — ■ Very
good of you, Mr Bramton. I shall be
only too delighted to — to peck a bit.'

Lucy's eyes flashed, and Matilda's cheeks
flushed scarlet. Neither of them were
blind to the covert sneer contained in
Lord Dartree's acceptance of their father's
invitation. It was rarely that nobleman
indulged in his naturally sarcastic nature
at the expense of John Bramton. He was
quite aware that it was much to the interest
of himself as well as his father to
keep on terms of intimacy with the Temple
Rising people, and he was too shrewd a
man of the world not to see that the
young ladies were very sensitive about
the solecisms of their father, and disposed
especially Lucy — to resent any ridicule
vehemently ; but nature is difficult to control,
and Lord Dartree, though he did his
best, was unable always to control his sarcastic
tongue. He had never quite goton
with Lucy, although the interest she
took in his brother had prepared her to
like him ; but Lucy never could get over
a vague feeling that he was laughing at
them, and we none of us like people who
produce that impression. His open admiration

for Matilda so gratified the girl's
vanity, that, quick-witted as she was, she
had not formed that idea of him ; but she
was no more blind than her sister, when
Lord Dartree allowed his mocking tongue
to get the better of him.

1 Well, Mr Bramton, you must be almost
sick of being asked the question, but how
is Damocles ? ' asked Lord Dartree, when
they had got into the dining-room.

1 Oh, he's first-rate. By the way, I wish
you'd tell your noble father I've thought
over what he said, and have determined
to keep the horse.'

1 Ah ! he will be very glad to hear that,'
said Lord Dartree, ' as he has an interest
in Damocles winning. He mentioned that
a very shady lot were trying to buy him
from you.'

When do you expect to hear again
from Mr Flood?' inquired Lucy.

1 Difficult to say. Of course, by post
we can't hear for some time, but Alec will
telegraph as soon as he has anything to
communicate. It was great news he sent

us, but he has got to get up into the
Soudan before he can put himself into
communication with these Halawin Arabs,
in whose hands Jack is. It ought not to
be difficult then, because I take it these
fellows are as anxious to get our money
into their hands, as we are to get poor
Jack out of theirs.'

'Just so! just so!' said Mr Bramton ;
that's a maxim as governs all trade.
People who want to buy, and people who
want to sell, are sure to come together and
do business ; it's only a question of terms.'

Hardly!' exclaimed Lucy. ' I'm sure
Lord Dartree will echo my words, when I
say there can be no making terms about
Captain Cuxwold's life.'

1 Quite right, Miss Lucy. We must pay
whatever they choose to ask us ; and come
by the money how best we can.'

4 As far as we can judge by the papers,
everything will be speedily over out there,'
observed Miss Bramton. ' The expedition
has failed, and I suppose there is nothing
left for us to do but to come away again.

Why, we may have Captain Cuxwold
home in time for the Wroxeter ball
after all'

I'm afraid you are a little too sanguine
rejoined Lord Dartree, smiling, ' but I do
hope that we may hear everything has
been arranged for his release before that.
And now, Mr Bramton, I must be off.
You, in common with most of our neighbours,
have sympathised with us so kindly
in our trouble, that I thought I would ride
over myself and let you know of our good
news.'

Very good of you indeed,' choruses
the whole party. ' I'm sure we were most
anxious to hear ; ' to which Lucy, as she
said ' good-bye,' added, 'And the next
time you hear from Mr Flood, you will
let us know at once, won't you ? '

Lord Dartree, of course, promised to
comply with her request, and as he rode
down the drive thought to himself, — ' I
wonder if there is anything between that
girl and Alec Flood! I'm blest if I don't
think that she's engaged to him.'

It may seem odd that Lord Dartree
did not accompany Flood on his mission in
search of Jack Cuxwold, and it was no
want of brotherly affection that caused him
to abstain from doing so ; but Lord Dartree
was a Guardsman, although he has figured
but little in his military capacity in these
pages, and the War Office had been rather
overdone of late in the matter of applications
for service in, or leave to go to, the
Soudan. The feeling was strong amongst
the officers in the army to be employed in
the expedition for the rescue of Gordon,
and, failing that, to be allowed to go out asa
volunteer. The military authorities are
bound to check such enthusiasm, and to
consider that as soon as they have what
they consider the requisite number of men
and officers for the work to be done, the
surplus simply represent an unemployed
contingent, that require transport and feeding.
That Lord Dartree would have obtained
leave to go to Egypt in search of
his brother, there was little doubt, but it
would have involved some little delay, and,

as Alec Flood pointed out, that was not to
be thought of.

No official, no general, likes to make
himself responsible for a large sum of
money in these democratic days, and that
is what we shall have to do, if Jack's a
prisoner. No, Dart, you'd be no good tome
in the East, and, believe me, I'd best
be off at once. You can, very likely, be
of use here, and you can't there. If Jack's
alive, you can trust me to do all man can
for him.'

So it was settled that Flood should q-o
alone to the East, with what results we
have already seen.

Lord Ranksborow was highly elated
when his son gave him Mr Bramton's
message.

By Jove, Dart, upon my soul, I think

it will come off! ' he exclaimed, after dinner,

as he raised a bumper of claret to his lips.

4 As the old turf refrain has it —

Here's the big stake we never yet landed,
Here's hoping we'll do it this time."

Do you know what this means to me ? '

Attaining the very garden of Bender
rejoined his son, laughing ; ' a gratifying
of the hopes and fears of numberless
worthy people, whose patience has
been probably tried to its utmost limit.'

It means landing eighty thousand
pounds,' rejoined Lord Ranksborow.
And you yourself — you'll do pretty
well, eh ? '

1 I should win twenty thousand pounds,'
rejoined Lord Dartree, ' and could afford
then to cut racing, and turn respectable.'

I suppose you'll win the Wroxeter Hunt
Steeplechase the end of next month ? '

Yes ; I think so ; but there won't be
much money to make out of it.'

1 Yes, it will take clever financing to
knock a thousand out of it, I suppose,'
rejoined the Earl, and then they both
relapsed into silence.

No one knew better the wondrous uncertainty
of racing than Lord Ranksborow.
He had seen the horse that carried his fortunes
knocked over at Tattenham Corner ;
he had known the flyer he had backed for

the Hunt Cup reach Ascot only to cough,
instead of race ; he had seen ' the good
thing ' he was on for the Cambridgeshire,
hopelessly shut in at the critical moment.
No one of the dire casualties of the racecourse
but what he had endured personal
experience of; but it did look this time
as if Fortune meant to shine upon him.
All the antecedents of Damocles quite
justified the supposition that he was considerably
superior to anything of his year.
The colt had wintered well, and his trainer
was full of confidence ; and now his owner,
as Lord Ranksborow believed, had dispelled
the one cloud that dimmed that
gallant animal's horizon, by declaring that
he would not part with him, at all events
before the Derby. Only three months now
to the great race, and the colt never was
better. The Earl might well feel sanguine,
and he was of that disposition. Despite
years of experience of the many equine
maladies that three months may unfold.
Lord Ranksborow fell to building ' castles
in the air,' and indulged himself in that

VOL. II. N

most glorious of all gambling fallacies, to
wit, resolving how you will spend your
money, before you have even won it.

1 1 think, Matilda,' said Lucy Bramton,
when she found herself alone with her
sister on the day of Lord Dartree's visit,
1 it is incumbent on you to give your
admirer a lesson in good manners. He
was downright impertinent to papa today.'


1 Yes,' said Miss Bramton, 'it was rude
of him, no doubt ; but papa is — well, you
know what papa is.'

Not so polished as he might be, no
doubt,' rejoined Lucy, ' but I am not going
to stand his being laughed at before me,
by Lord Dartree or any one else.'

'You are making an unnecessary fuss
about a trifle,' retorted Miss Bramton. ' I
admit Lord Dartree was somewhat impertinent
in the way he accepted papa's extremely
vulgarly given invitation to lunch ;
but it's the first time I have ever noticed
such a thing, or you may be sure I should
have called him to order long ago.'

I can only say, Matilda, I have, two
or three times. Lord Dartree strikes meas
a man who exercises considerable repression
on himself, to prevent making
constant fun of dear papa. He's more
your affair than mine, but if he commits
himself again, and you don't put him
down, I shall.'

My dear Lucy,' replied Miss Bramton
loftily, ' you need not distress yourself
about upholding the dignity of the family.
You can't suppose I would allow papa
to be made a subject of ridicule ? I shall
be perfectly competent to put down Lord
Dartree, should it become necessary. He
is rather given to badinage, and is, perhaps,
at times tempted to go too far. You,
on the other hand, are absurdly sensitive.
Don't you disturb yourself, my dear ; I am
quite equal to the situation.'

Very well,' rejoined Lucy ; ' I don't
want to interfere ; but bear in mind,
Matilda, no one shall laugh at papa
before me.'

ENGLISH HORSES VERSUS ARABS.

The Halawin Arabs lingered still at the
Bayuda Wells, and Jack Cuxwold was
puzzled as to Mohammed Sebekh's motive
in so doing. That the Sheikh was a
regular trimmer, Jack had no doubt, but if
he had not taken part against the English,
as yet, he surely could hardly intend to do
so now. Some of Mohammed's followers
were daily away scouting, and from their
reports the Sheikh was at length convinced
that the British column would be permitted
to retreat unmolested. The Mahdi
had captured Khartoum, and slain the
famous English pasha, who had so long
defied him therein ; and his troops, after

the rough handling they had received of
late, had no stomach for further fighting.
In short, as the English were apparently
evacuating the country, it was deemed inexpedient
to interfere with the infidel dogs
further, nor to hinder their going. Mohammed
Sebekh, now he saw which way
the game was going, was clearly not likely
to commit himself. He could, if he chose,
pose as ' friendly,' and whatever the English
chiefs might really think concerning
him, it was not likely that they would
treat him as otherwise. His intention now
was to strike across the desert to Jakdul,
as soon as he had ascertained that the
English had left it, and then, pushing onto
the Wells of Howeiyat, the nearest
water to Korti, from thence negotiate
for the ransom of his prisoner.

If Jack did not understand all this at the
time, yet he did the greater part of it. He
quite guessed that the Sheikh only tarried
to see which way the wind blew, and that
as soon as he was convinced it was not
to his interest to take part in the fray,

that he would be speedily anxious to have
that matter of his, Jack Cuxwold's, ransom
settled and done with. In the meantime,
Mohammed Sebekh was very fond of conversing
with his prisoner, and one question
with which the twain had much discussion
and argument, was upon the supremacy
of the English or Arab horses. Mohammed,
as might have been expected,
stoutly upheld the superiority of the steeds
of the desert, while Jack Cuxwold laughed
at the idea of any Arab horse that ever
was foaled holding his own with a moderate
English thoroughbred.

'Why, Sheikh,' he exclaimed, on one of
these occasions, ' we have horses in our
camp that would carry two men, and leave
you, and the best horse you own, far behind
in a race of two or three miles over
the desert.'

I have heard,' answered Mohammed,
that you English are very proud of your
breed of horses, — that you vaunt they can
outstrip the wind, — that you have a tradition
amongst you, that years ago you had a

famous steed that could gallop a mile in one
minute, but such English horses as I have
seen, I am sure could not do that. They
are big, but they are not of pure blood.
We Arabs think more of blood than of size,
both in man and horse. It's the blood tells
when the strain comes.'

Quite so ; but you have never seen an
English thoroughbred horse. The few you
have seen, have only been half-bred horses.
We preserve the blood of our highly-bred
horses as jealously as you do.'

1 The blood of the Nedgid Arabs has
run unstained in their veins for centuries,'
rejoined Mohammed proudly.

Well, if it comes to that,' rejoined Jack,
rather nettled, ' we can trace the pedigree of
our racers back for a couple of hundred
years, and I fancy our stud-book is more
rigidly kept than yours.'

What do you mean by a stud-book ? '
asked Mohammed.

Jack Cuxwold then proceeded to explain
to the Sheikh that the birth of every
thoroughbred horse in England, as well as

&

the name of the sire and dam, were registered
in a volume kept by people appointed
for that purpose.

Mohammed listened to this explanation
with a face of polite incredulity, and at the
finish of it, stroked his beard, and exclaimed,
— ' It is very wonderful ! '

This was only a sample of many conversations
of the same kind that passed between
Mohammed and his prisoner. The
Sheikh, indeed, though evidently extremely
sceptical, seemed never to weary of the subject,
and showed Jack the pick of his own
stable — if I may use the term to horses
who had no experience of such a building
with as much pride as the famous kingsley
trainer was wont to throw open the
door of Ormond's box ; and they were
horses to be proud of. Pure-bred Arabs,
and looking it all over ; small, like all Arab
horses, but the fineness of the skin, through
which the veins could be clearly traced ;
the lean, thoroughbred head, with its bold,
open nostril, and large, soft eyes, all spoke
to the purity of their descent. The

Sheikh's curiosity to see one of these
English thoroughbreds grew apace. He
sounded Jack upon the subject, and even
hinted that it would be a delicate attention
on the part of his guest — as he was most
scrupulous about regarding Jack — to present
him with one before he left, pointing
out that to an English ' my lord ' — such as
Captain Cuxwold was in his own country —
five thousand pounds was a very paltry sum
to demand for saving his life and keeping
him out of harm's way during such dangerous
times as they had just passed through.
Then, seeing that Jack did not altogether
receive this proposition with enthusiasm,
he suggested that if the Englishman could
procure from his friends such a horse
as he described, it would be a graceful
courtesy at parting if they should exchange
horses ; and then the wily old
horse-coper bethought him of one of his
stud, well stricken in years, that would do
admirably as a parting gift for Jack Cuckold.


That gallant dragoon was beginning to

a

wish most devoutly that the days of his
captivity were numbered. His position
was getting exceedingly awkward. He
had nothing to do in camp, and in great
measure it fell to Zelne to entertain him.
What was he to do ? He was perpetually
sauntering about with a maiden who made
no disguise of her love for him. He had
lost his head about the girl once, and there
was nothing for it now but to go on love-making.
Yet when the time of his release
came, it would be impossible for him to
take her away with him. ' Fancy the explosion
there would be at Knightshayes if
he turned up with such an appanage as this
Arab maiden ! ' He certainly was not prepared
to turn Mahometan, be adopted
into the tribe of the Halawins, and pass the
remainder of his life in the desert ; and yet
he remembered remorsefully that Zelne had
saved his life. It was not his fault altogether
— he could hardly help it, but he had
returned that boon, by stealing her heart.
He was not more punctilious in his loves
than men of his class generally, holding

that women, as a rule, could take pretty
good care of themselves, and that it behoved
a soldier to accept his bonnes fortunes
as they came to him ; but this was
different. He could not wrong this girl,
to whom he owed his very existence ;
and yet he had, as he knew, unwittingly
done so in some measure.

They're so deuced inflammable in these
tropical climates,' he muttered ; ' and when
a girl with such glorious eyes as Zelne
looks up into one's face, and lets it be seen
that she's spoons on a fellow, what is he todo
but kiss her ? There is but one way
out of the scrape. It sounds rather mean,
but the best thine: for both of us would be
if I could make a clean bolt of it. Not so
easy, though. I am apparently under no
restraint, but unless I am with Zelne, my
friends here keep a pretty sharp eye on me.'

Here his meditations were interrupted by
the maiden in question, who said archly, —

4 My lord looks grave. Is it that he
is tired of his long stay by the Wells of
Bayuda ? '

No, Zelne dearest, it is not that ; but I
am not, like you, used to the monotony of
the desert.'

Monotony ! What ! the desert, with its
ever-changing shadows, with its pure air,
its glorious nights ! It's very little I have
seen of towns, but they seemed so close,
confused, so pitiful, after the free expanse
of the desert.'

But we are about to leave this, Zelne ;
is it not so ? Even you Arabs will admit
that it is the wandering life you lead constitutes
the great charm of the desert.'

Yes ; it is rarely we stay so long in one
place as we have here. This is out of the
regular routes, and my father cared not to
be mixed up with all the fighting. He is
no believer in the Mahdi, but would never
range himself under your flag. The desert
belongs to her children,' concluded Zelne
proudly.

1 As I told you before,' rejoined Jack,
1 we English make no claim to the Soudan.
We came to rescue our great chief, who
was shut up in Khartoum. We have failed

he is dead. We have no further quarrel
with your people.'

I am glad to hear you say that,' replied
Zelne. ' Your tribe in England, they
don't live in tents as we do. Your climate
is too cold for that. I suppose you have
one great castle, and huts, and sheds round,
for your dependants and cattle ? '

Something of that kind, Zelne,' returned
Jack, smiling as he thought of Knight-shades.


Yes ; and you think much of your breed
of horses,' continued the girl, ' and even
believe, my father tells me, that they could
outstrip the famous breed that has been
in our house for centuries.'

Would go a monkey on the match ! '
ejaculated Jack. ' I mean — I haven't the
slightest doubt of it.'

I should like to see one of these horses
of the wind,' whispered Zelne.

1 And so you shall, darling, as quickly
as I can lay my hands on one. It is difficult
now, while I am a prisoner.'

Ah ! but you will not be that much

longer. We leave here tomorrow for the
Wells of Jakdul. Is my lord glad ? '

Am I not a prisoner for life to your
bright eyes, my sweet Zelne ? ' rejoined
Jack, developing an unexpected and most
injudicious turn for Eastern hyperbole;
but, as he remarked afterwards, ' there is
no doing this sort of thing by halves.'

1 My father will want to speak to you
this afternoon. He will wish you to get
ready the letter you must send to Korti;
he is very anxious to see one of these
famous horses that can gallop down the
steeds of the Halawins.'

There may not be a horse of the race
I mean at Korti, but if there is, the eyes
of yourself and your father shall be gratified,
Zelne. Now, I must go and get
this letter ready.'

The girl sighed as she walked away
towards her own tent, and said to herself,
He loves me, but, ah ! not as I love him.
I could give up my father, my people, the
desert life I love so well, and cling to him;
but men are different. They will not renounce

their creed and country for the
love of woman.'

Jack sat down as he proposed, to write
to the Colonel of his regiment, and inform
him of his situation, — how that he was a
prisoner in the hands of the Arabs, and
that Mohammed Sebekh demanded five
thousand pounds to set him free. ' If
that is not forthcoming, the said Sheikh
threatens to carry me off with him into
the wilds of the Soudan. Whether it is
possible to raise the money I must leave
for you and others to determine, but I see
no possibility of extricating myself from
my present scrape otherwise. A small
party would run no risk in coming out to
confer with Mohammed Sebekh, but to
come out in force, would only be a signal
for the Halawins to disappear in the desert.
My family will, of course, repay what money
may be advanced for me.'

When he had got that far, Jack thought
he would go to the Sheikh's tent, and read
it to him. Mohammed listened to him attentively,
and when he had finished said, —

a

It is good. My lord's ransom will be
doubtless soon ready, but he has said nothing
about the horse.'

No,' replied Jack ; ' I am going to
write another letter about that,' and suddenly
an idea flashed through his brain,
that he determined was worth working out.

Returning to his tent, he sat down and
composed another epistle, this time to his
subaltern Checquers. That young gentleman
he knew to be as cool and quick-witted
as any one in the force. He had
to be careful as to what he said, as it was
quite possible there was some one amongst
the tribe who could read English. Zelne,
for instance, spoke it a little, and, for all
he knew to the contrary, read it. He
could only trust that Checquers might be
able to read between the lines.

Dear Checquers,' he wrote, — ' The
Colonel will tell you that I have fallen into
the hands of the Philistines, that they
have put a price upon my head, and have
appraised your noble captain considerably

higher than he has ever been valued as
yet. My host, Sheikh Mohammed Sebekh,
possesses crude ideas on the matter of
horse flesh, and persistently maintains
that an Arab steed can outrun an English
thoroughbred. It would facilitate my
release if I could convince him that he is
wrong. He will doubtless expect a present
at parting, in addition to his tribute. If
you can pick up a fair thoroughbred horse,
send him out. Is The Bantam — the horse
that won the Khedive's cup at Cairo last
spring — anywhere about Korti ? If so,
tell his owner he may put his own price
on him, but that I want him for a special
purpose. Love to every one. — Yours
ever,

Jack Cuxwold.'

There,' said Jack, as he folded the
epistle, ' that's as plain as I dare make it.
If Checquers can't understand Fve a game
on, I can't help it ! '

VOL. 11.

'THE MUMMER.'

Early the next morning the camp was
astir, tents were struck, camels were
loaded, and all the preparations for the
march made, with that rapidity and facility
to which dwellers in tents get so soon
habituated. Jack rode apparently, though
unarmed, perfectly free in the midst of the
band, but they had taken very good care
not to mount him on his own dromedary,
nor had he any reason to believe that his
host had by any means picked out the best
horse in the stable for his riding. However,
the Halawins moved rapidly, and,
though it was a long way, with the exception
of two halts, and those of short duration,

the Arabs never drew bridle till they
reached the Wells of Jakdul. There the
tents were once more pitched, and it was
evident that a somewhat prolonged halt
was intended. Mohammed Sebekh indeed
informed Jack that he should remain there
twenty-four hours, but that as soon as they
were rested, two of his young men should
carry Jack's letter into Korti, and that he
and his tribe would then proceed to the
Wells of Howeiyat, to await the English
General's answer to his demand.

Jack slept soundly that night, and, as he
idled about by the Wells the next morning,
congratulated himself upon one thing,
if anything should come of the daring
scheme that he had conceived, he had, at
all events, achieved one great point, — he
was no longer lost, he was on the known
desert route, and could find his way to
Korti ; could he but escape, he was no
longer astray as to the road he had to
travel ; add to which, when they reached
the Wells of Howeiyat, he would be still
nearer, — in short, within one long day's

ride of his old comrades. He was sanguine
that Checquers would understand his note ;
but the great difficulty lay in this : Was
The Bantam forthcoming, or was it possible
for Checquers to find him such a horse ashe
required ? If he could get an English
thoroughbred, Jack felt that it depended
solely on his own dexterity and horsemanship
to laugh at Mohammed Sebekh's
beard ; but it was useless to attempt to
escape, unless he felt pretty sure he was
on a good horse.

Five thousand pounds,' he muttered, ' is
worth risking my skin for. If my scheme
succeeds, I shall save my ransom, and
what, upon my word, I regard almost as
much, I shall avoid saying farewell to
Zelne.'

Great was the excitement amongst his
old comrades when Jack's letter arrived
at Korti. They had long given him up
for lost, and . supposed that he had the
mischance to fall in with a small party
of wandering Arabs somewhere between
Metammeh and Jakdul, and that his

bones were now, like those of many others,
bleaching amid the sands of the Soudan.

'Hurrah!' cried Checquers, when the
Colonel handed him his note. ' Why,
Jack's alive, and not only alive, but very
much alive. I don't know what he says
to you, sir, but he's at the old game again,
as I read his letter, and he's got a match on
with the venerable old robber into whose
hands he has fallen. The English horse
against the Arab, catch weights, owners up.'

1 Let me see your letter, Checquers,' returned
the Colonel. ■ This Mohammed
Sebekh, to whom he is paying this involuntary
visit, is determined not to part with
him until he gets five thousand pounds. Of
course it has got to be paid, but it has to
be raised first. Whether they could spare
such a sum from the military chest, and
whether Lord Wolseley would authorise it
if they could, is doubtful ; and it will take
some little time to arrange otherwise. I
have no doubt the Earl of Ranksborow, as
Cuxwold says, will repay it, but it will take
weeks before he could remit the money.

I must go and take counsel with the
authorities.'

One moment, sir,' said Checquers.
1 Under any circumstances, we must temporise
; is it not so ? '

6 Certainly,' rejoined the Colonel.

Very well, sir. If I understand Jack
Cuxwold — and I know my dear old skipper
pretty well — he sees his way into fooling
old Mohammed some. I know the sort of
horse he wants. One that can gallop, stay,
and is pretty fit. Jack means the winning-post
of that race to be Korti. Now, he and
I, as you know, are always mad about garrison
races, regimental matches, etc. We
always know in whose hands every racehorse
in the army is. All the fighting has
rather disturbed the diffusion of such useful
knowledge, but I think I know whereto
lay hands on The Bantam.'

'You young robber,' rejoined his chief,
laughing ; ' I believe you dream of matches
with 7 lbs. in hand.'

If The Bantam is only fit, he's the
very horse for Jack's business,' rejoined

Checquers ; ' and Tom Donaldson, to help
Jack do an Arab, in a match of ^5000 aside

for that's what it amounts to — would

let him have him, I'm sure. Temporise a
week or two, sir. Give me time to get The
Bantam, and give him a gallop or two, and
I only wish I'd a monkey on the match, and
a photograph of old Mohammed's face,
when Jack leaves him at the winning-post,
and, feigning he can't pull his horse up,
gallops straight into Korti.'

You're a sanguine young man,' rejoined
the Colonel ; ' however, there's never any
harm in having two strings to one's bow.
You see about your mission, and I'll see
about mine. We must, of course, send an
answer of some sort at once to the Wells
of Howeiyat, where Mohammed Sebekh is
waiting our reply.'

The Sheikh carried out his intentions,
and, after twenty-four hours' halt at Jakdul,
pushed on to the Wells of Howeiyat. He
had his spies and scouts close around, and
even at Korti, so as to have speedy intelligence
of any contemplated expedition

against himself and his tribe. But the
authorities there had no such intention.
There were but two ways, they thought,
to rescue Jack Cuxwold — either by money
or by stratagem. They were quite aware
that the Halawins were a powerful and well-armed
tribe, who were supposed to have
taken a prominent part in the massacre of
Hicks' army two years before ; and to
attack them with any hope of success,
would require a considerable force, — not
such a column as had been despatched to
Metammeh, but still a force of some
strength. If Cuxwold could escape by
strategy, they could but provide him with
the horse he asked for : the rest must be
his own doing. As for the money, that
would take some few days to arrange. A
diplomatic answer was accordingly sent to
Mohammed Sebekh, to the effect that the
money would be sent to him as soon as it
could be collected, while it was further intimated
that if an English horse could be
procured, it would also be forwarded, to
enable Captain Cuxwold to make a suitable

nuzzer to his host. Accompanying
this missive, was a note from Checquers,
which ran as follows, —

1 Dear Jack, — We are all awfully glad
to hear that you've turned up, though what
happened to you exactly puzzles us extremely.
The chief has told you all about
the money arrangements, but the horse
is my business. I can't get hold of The
Bantam, and he has got a doubtful leg,
even if I could, but I've got my eye on
the very horse you want, and am going
to send him to you in a few days. I
don't think you ever saw The Mummer,
by Adventurer out of Footlights. He's a
rare stayer, very fit, and I think just the
horse you want. I fancy his long raking
stride will smash up the best Arab that
ever was foaled. — Ever yours,

Jim Checquers.'

1 PS. — I should like to stand some of
your money on the match.'

Jack laughed when he read his sub's

letter. It was quite evident that Checquers
thoroughly took in the whole scheme ; indeed,
the idea commended itself not a little
to that dare-devil young gentleman, and
Jack felt that he could confidently rely
upon Checquers sending such a horse ashe
wanted. The next thing was to communicate
the contents of these letters to
Mohammed, who, with Eastern gravity,
was waiting till it should please his guest
to speak.

Jack first read him out his Colonel's
letter, and, commenting upon it, said, —

You see, O Sheikh, that such a large
sum as this must take some little time to
collect. This war has impoverished us
English. The sum is large, and you
must grant a few days' delay.'

It is just,' replied Mohammed. ' I and
my people will tarry for a week by the
Wells of Howeiyat ; but there is no mention
of the horse.'

The desire to possess an English horse
had seized upon Mohammed's mind very
strongly, and Jack saw that he might as

well make a virtue of necessity, and present
it to the chief, unless he succeeded in
escaping on it, as it was quite clear to him
that the Sheikh would never allow him
to take the horse away with him, pay in
every pound of the sum demanded as his
ransom though he might.

Now,' thought Jack, ' is my time to
chaff old Front de Boeuf into a match.
Brag, I must brag — there's nothing like
brag. He don't believe a word I say
about English thoroughbreds, and, though
he is too polite to say so, thinks me a
most stupendous liar.'

This other letter is about the horse,
Sheikh. One of my friends writes confidently
that he will be able to send me a
pure-bred English horse in a few days, and
laughs at the idea of there being an Arab
horse capable of contending with him.'

It is not always the cock that crows the
loudest that wins the battle. The ass is
more noisy than the horse, but he is neither
so swift nor so strong, for all that.'

By Jove!' muttered Jack, ' I'm not to

have all the chaff my own side. Old Front

de Boeuf seems a " nailer" at it, in his own

way.'

Well,' he replied at length, ' we English
are very confident of the superiority of our
horses, and beautiful and high-bred as I
admit yours are, I still maintain they would
have no chance whatever with a pure-bred
English horse.'

'We shall see — we shall try.'

Then, Sheikh, before I leave you, you
will run a race with me — you on the best
horse you own, I riding that my friend has
sent me, for five miles. Will that suit you?'

Not quite,' replied Mohammed. 'I will
run you five miles out, and five miles home
again.'

What an old leg it is ! ' thought Jack
to himself. ' Upon my soul, before he had
been a year at Newmarket, I believe he'd
hold his own with the best of them. He
knows this much about English horses,
that they are big and long striding. Of
course, that turn round the post at the end
of the five miles is all against the long-striding

English thoroughbred, whilst the
little handy Arab would gain an advantage
of many lengths as he slips round. However,
it won't be the pull he thinks.'

'All right, Sheikh,' he said; 'I shall
beat you, either five miles or ten — it don't
matter which.'

So be it ; we shall see,' rejoined the
imperturbable Mohammed.

During the next few days, Zelne was in a
great state of mind. She knew the negotiations
for the release of her lover were
going on, — that they were only awaiting
their successful conclusion in their present
encampment, — that a few days more
and she would have said ' good-bye ' to
the man whose life she had saved, and
learned to love, probably for ever. It was
very bitter, but she knew that it must be
so. She would have fled with him, or to
him, and even given up the wild desert
life, which was as the breath of her nostrils,
to live amongst aliens and cities, if he had
but held up his finger. But she knew he
would not do so. She felt that he loved her

^

in a way, but with no such wild, passionate
love as she craved from him, — a love
that could give up everything for her sake.
There had been such men, she had heard.
Was there not the legend of some great
prince who gave up the empire of the
world for the love of Egypt's great queen ?
But, she was fain to confess, she had never
known one of these men. She had, of
course, heard of the match between her
father and his guest, and was as incredulous
as Mohammed himself, in the
first instance ; but latterly she had began
to change her opinion. Her lover had assured
her that the English horse would
prove triumphant ; and what will not a
woman believe when her lover tells her a
thing is so ? She was in a state of feverish
unrest. Was not the one romance of her
young life about to terminate miserably ?
Ransom ? There was little doubt about
that: these English had so much money.
Ah, how she wished her father had not
demanded that ! Was he not hers ? — her
captive, whose very life she had saved ?

and it was pitiful of Mohammed Sebekh
to demand salvage for complying with the
mere laws of humanity, she felt. Her captive
! — what mockery ! — a captive she was
powerless to hold in bondage in the sole
way she cared for. Her captive, alas !
Shame on her that it was so, but she was
his. Well, she must steel her heart to the
inevitable. There could be no union between
the infidel and the true believer.
Why not ? There was a Paradise for the
Christian as well as the Moslem, but for the
Mahometan woman, there was no hereafter,
so what need it matter ? She might
be his leman, for the matter of that ; and
then Zelne sobbed herself to sleep, still
wondering by what mischance she stumbled
on the dying Englishman in the desert. It
was her kismet, but it was none the less
hard to bear.

CHAFFED INTO A MATCH.

A few days later, and a small detachment
of dragoons, from Korti — not above half
a score troopers — under a non-commissioned
officer, ride into the camp of the
Halawins, bringing with them a carefully-sheeted
quadruped, which it is at once
whispered about amongst the tribe is the
pure-bred English horse that is destined to
compete with the desert-born horses of their
Sheikh. Not an Arab amongst them but
believes this race to be but the craze of the
mad Englishman who has fallen into their
hands. But, if they were sceptical before,
they broke into derisive laughter when, at
the desire of Mohammed, The Mummer was

stripped for inspection. In good truth he
was not a taking horse, with his plain head,
lop ears — which, to an English racing man,
would have told of the Melbourne strain
in his blood — and slightly Roman nose.
His great ragged hips, and thighs let low
down, might have attracted the attention of
an expert in racing matters, but it assuredly
required some credulity to believe that The
Mummer was clean bred. Nobody, not
even his greatest admirers, not even those
who had more than once won their money
over him, could call him a handsome horse.
There he stood, a great, feathering bright
bay of sixteen hands, quiet as a sheep, and
with apparently about as much go in him.
He was aged, and, only two or three years
ago, at Lichfield, a prominent member of
the Ring, on The Mummer being pointed
out to him as a probable winner of the
Queen's Plate, exclaimed, — 'What! that
exaggerated old clothes-horse win. Rubbish
! Here's six monkeys, The Mummer,
or any part of it.' Bit he paid.

To say Jack Cuxwold was impressed with
vol. n. p

his horse, would hardly express his feelings.
His first ejaculation was, 'What an
old scarecrow ! ' but then he called to mind
some rather redoubtable performances of
The Mummer, of which, though he had
not witnessed them, he had read. Then it
flashed across him that if ever there was an
English horse calculated to throw dust in
the eyes of the Halawins, it was this one.
Then he reflected that his astute subaltern
was the last man in the world to make a
mistake about such a matter ; and finally
came from the non-commissioned officer in
charge of the party, a whisper, in Checquers'
well-known tones, —

It's all right, Jack. If he's a rum un to
look at, he's also a rum un to go.'

But now, strange to say, another most
unforeseen difficulty sprang up, and this
was, that, after looking the English horse
over, Mohammed Sebekh was furious.

This your boasted breed ! ' he said.
You laugh at my beard. You bring that
thing into the desert which is as much like
a camel as a horse. Go to ! To bring out

one of the pure Nedjid line to contend
against a mere beast of burthen like that,
would be to be laughed at by my whole
tribe.'

You must do as you like, Sheikh,' rejoined
Jack curtly. ' In my country, we
claim forfeit for a match, when a man's
afraid to run. That under-sized camel,
as you call him, will beat any four-footed
beast in your tents, if you have the courage
to run against him.'

This, as was intended, only made the
Sheikh still more angry.

Beware how far you go. Look to it,
Englishman, that you make not Mohammed
Sebekh a laughing-stock in front of his
tribe. An Arab brooks not insult, and
loves revenge dearer than gold.'

'Pleasant this,' thought Jack, 'if I happen
to make a mess of it.'

If to beat you in a race, Sheikh, is to spit
upon your beard, you had best not run,' he
said aloud, somewhat contemptuously.

I shall race with you, Englishman,' replied
Mohammed and if I find your boasted

steed to be no quicker than a donkey, on
your head be it.'

'Ask for three days' delay,' said Cheques
; but, low as the tone was, it reached
Mohammed's ears.

What is it he says ? ' asked the Sheikh.

1 He advises me to ask for three days'
grace. You can see why. My horse has
travelled far ; he wants that much rest, before
he is called upon to contend against the
fleetest horses of the desert.'

1 It is just,' replied Mohammed. ' On
the third day from this, we will see whether
your mouth has spoken the thing that is,
or whether it is the mere boasting of a
braggart.'

Jack Cuxwold simply bowed his head in
sign of assent, and then proceeded to see
after the requirements of Checquers and his
men. But he speedily perceived he was
jealously watched, and that it would be
imprudent to indulge in talk with his subaltern.
The Arabs were evidently suspicious,
and it was necessary for his scheme
to lull those suspicions to sleep, as far as

possible. Chequers, on his part, was quick
to apprehend the situation, and made not
the slightest attempt to converse with his
Captain. He felt pretty certain that he
thoroughly understood Jack's scheme. He
knew that to aid him further than he had
done was nearly impossible, and determined
that, after his men had been fed and enjoyed
a few hours' good sleep, the best thing he
could do was to return to Korti, and await
the result of the race.

As he bade Jack good-bye the next morning,
he saluted punctiliously, in accordance
with his assumed rank, and said, — ' I hope
and think you will win, sir ; ' and, dropping
his tone, he added, ' Help half-way!

Closely as the Arabs watched over the
departure of the dragoons — and there were
purposely one or two amongst them with
some knowledge of English — those three
last words escaped their vigilant ears ; and
as Checquers and his troopers disappeared
in the distance, Jack felt that, though an
eye was kept upon his movements, he was
no longer under strict supervision.

The next day Jack demanded Mohammed's
permission to exercise The Mummer,
and give him a gallop. The Sheikh admitted
the fairness of the request, agreeing
with Jack that horses required plenty of
healthy exercise to keep them in good condition.
The Arabs are horse-dealers by
nature, and there was much curiosity amidst
the tribe to see the Englishman's horse
gallop ; but Jack very soon found that the
direction in which that gallop was to be, was
carefully marked out for him, and that small
parties of mounted horsemen were stationed
here and there, carelessly, as if to see how
The Mummer went when extended, but, at
the same time, in such manner that one
party or another would be able to intercept
him, should he be rash enough to attempt
an escape. This did not look very promising,
he thought, for his scheme. If he
was thus guarded on the day of the race, it
would be almost madness to put it into
execution. However, he had made up his
mind about one thing, and that was not to
expose his horse until the actual day came.

The Halawins, therefore, to their great disgust,
were treated to nothing but a long,
slow gallop, quickened a little during the
last mile or so, but giving no idea of what
the horse's actual powers might be. But
that gallop had taught Jack something, and
that was that The Mummer was a powerful,
lazy horse, quite content to lob along,
unless called on.

Zelne had ridden out to see how the
English horse went, but she, like all her
tribe, knew that no idea of what The
Mummer could do was to be gathered
from what they had seen. Accustomed
to ' bucket ' their own horses unmercifully,
except on long journeys, the Arabs
could not understand a long, slow training
gallop. Their idea was that the first impulse
of the Englishman would be to try this
new horse, which was confessedly unknown
to him. That was what any one of themselves
would have done. They would first
have endeavoured to form some estimate of
his fleetness, and, secondly, of his bottom.
Surely the Englishman could not be so mad

as to think he could wear their horses down
at that pace ? Yet, unless his horse could
go but a little quicker, why did he hesitate
to put him to his speed ? The consensus
of opinion amongst the Halawins was that
this English paragon was an immensely
over-estimated animal. And they came
finally to the conclusion that if it was not
all braggadocio that the English possessed
such wonderful horses, then had the English
lord been grossly imposed upon ; and some
of the elders of the tribe smiled, as they
remembered how often they had sold inferior
horses as the pure-bred steeds of the desert.
Zelne alone, of all her tribe, believed in the
powers of The Mummer. She watched her
lover closely during these two days ; he was
kinder and more devoted to her than ever,
but she noticed that he was sad and preoccupied.
That they must part, he made no
disguise, though he refused to admit that
it was never to meet again ; but she knew
better — she did not deceive herself upon
that point. It is hard to blind the keen eyes
of affection, and Zelne by this knew every

trick of his countenance, — could interpret
every smile or shadow that crossed his face.
Mercifully, till the finish comes to all of us,
we rarely realise in this world how often weare
fated to say ' good-bye,' for ever !

The next day, Jack again rode The
Mummer, and once more did the tribe turnout
to see the performance. It was a mere
repetition of the day before, except in one
particular. As Jack commenced the last
mile of his gallop, a well-mounted young
Arab suddenly conceived the idea of, in
racing parlance, ' getting a line,' by bustling
The Mummer up a bit. No sooner did this
brilliant thought strike him, than he put
spurs to his horse, dashed alongside of Jack,
and commenced a race with him. Jack
apparently fell into the trap, and, laughing
in his sleeve, determined to show the Arab
one of the tricks of English jockeyship. He
affected to bustle his horse. He got up his
hand, and administered two or three decided
cuts with the whip — to his boot ; but it was
all of no use. The Mummer quickened his
pace not an iota ; he fell further and further

behind, and, finally, the Arab dashed his
horse triumphantly past the assumed ,
at least a dozen lengths in
advance.

Screams, yells of delight, burst from the
throats of the Halawins, as they witnessed
the success of their own champion, though,
as Jack said to Mr Checquers afterwards,
when describing the pseudo trial, ' Such a
shameless bit of " kidding" would have ensured
my being hooted off the course at
Stourbridge or Croydon.' But the niceties
of jockeyship are as yet not understood in
the Soudan, keen horse-copers though the
Arabs of that region for the most part are.
That the incident was duly reported to
Mohammed Sebekh, was matter of course,
and once more was that fiery chieftain
roused to wrath. H is was a singularly composite
character. He had all the rapacity
and fearlessness of a Front de Boeuf, conjoined
with the cunning and avarice of old
Trapbois. A schemer, intriguer, and liar,
he feared but one thing, and that was the
being made ridiculous. We writhe under

that even in the West, but, to the grave,
dignified Eastern, to be laughed at is a
great humiliation, — a thing, as a matter of
policy, too, not to he endured. An Arab
sheikh who once becomes an object of derision,
it is likely will not remain chief of
his tribe much longer ; and Mohammed,
from what he heard, had a strong idea that
Jack Cuxwold was jesting with him, and, as
I have said, they have a scant appreciation
of humour in the East.

Once more did Mohammed send for his
prisoner, and haughtily menace him with
the consequences of making him a laughingstock
in the face of the assembled Hala-wins,
and again did Jack taunt the Sheikh
with wanting to back out of the match, and
declare that, if he refused to run, he, Cuckold,
was entitled to claim the best horse
the Sheikh possessed. No such condition
as this had been made, but when aggravation
is the main object we have in view,
veracity becomes a very minor consideration.
Stung by his prisoner's jibes, once
more did Mohammed Sebekh vow that the

match should stand, but that it did so at his,
Cuxwold's, peril.

I'm quite aware of that,' thought Jack,
as he walked away from the Sheikh's tent.
If it comes off, your temper won't be
heavenly — but that won't matter; and if it
don't, well, I don't think you'll cut off your
nose to spite your face, or lose five thousand
pounds to indulge in the luxury of cutting
my head off. No, I don't run half the risk
I've done a score of times of late, to say
nothing of never having had anything like
such a stake on it.'

At this moment he encountered Zelne
and, despite himself, the smile with which
he was picturing Mohammed's rage at finding
himself outwitted, faded from his countenance,
and his face fell. This was the
terrible trouble of his situation. He not
only had a strong affection for the girl, but
he most conscientiously recognised that he
owed his life to her to boot. He had not
sought, in the first instance, to win her
affections, but when he found that she was
won, — that she was wildly in love with the

man she had saved, what could he do but
swim with the stream ? How it was all to
end, had troubled him not a little. To
make her his wife was an impossibility,
even had he wished it, and to carry her off
under any other condition, was to repay
all he owed her by the basest ingratitude,
albeit he knew Eastern women do not attach
so much importance to the marriage
service as their sisters of the West.

My lord looks sad,' said Zelne. ' Is he
afraid of the result of tomorrow's race ? '

No, Zelne dearest. I feel as confident
of winning as ever, in spite of the apparent
beating I received to-day.'

It was as I thought, you did not wish
to beat my countryman ; but tomorrow, I
know it will be different.'

I think so. I feel sure that you have
none of you any idea what an English horse
can do, when he is ridden in earnest.'

Ah, dearest, I know you so well. I can
see the finish of tomorrow's race. You are
about to leave me. Will you grant me a
favour ? '

Anything I can do for you, Zelne, you
know I will,' replied Jack.

'It is not much. Will you swear to
carry this note that I have written, about
you tomorrow, and not to read it or open
it till the race is over ? '

Certainly, Zelne. But what can you
mean ? What is it ? '

A charm — an amulet, perhaps ; who
knows ? We believe in such things. I
may wish you to beat my father, and in
my little way would arm you for the contest.
Will you swear ? '

'Yes,' said Jack, as he took the note.
I swear not to read it till after the race.'

That is good of you,' said Zelne. ' Now,
kiss me, darling, and good-night.'

A fond embrace, and the lovers parted.
Jack Cuxwold went to his tent more remorseful
than ever at the love-passages
which had passed between himself and
this Arab maiden.

END OF VOL. 11.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

.VERSITYOFILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042045044

//AVVLErSAMRT

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

V.3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS.

A NO V EL.

BV

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

Breeze LANGTON,' ' A FALSE START,' ' CLEVERLY WON,

'THE OUTSIDER,' 'THE MASTER OF Wrathfully,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1889.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/longoddsnovel03smar

CONTENTS.

I. — The Race in the Desert, . . . i

II. — The Wroxeter Ball, . 14

III. — A VERY Pretty Quarrel, . 29

IV. — Death of Lord Dartree, . . 44

V. — Something wrong with Damocles, . 59

VI. — Zelne's Letter, • • • • 73

VII. — Homeward Bound, 86

VIII. — At Knightshayes once more, . . 100

IX. — Tom RoBBiNs GROWS Garrulous, . 115

X. — Semi-Boycotting of Bramton, . .129

XL — Mr Napper's Little Comedy, . .142

XII. — Bramton not to be driven, .-157

XIII. — Flood calls AT Temple Rising, . 172

XIV. — Lucy asserts Herself, . . .187

XV. — Damocles shall run, . . . 200

XVI. — Winning the Derby, .214

Conclusion, . . . . .229

Nu ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2s.

A Iso now ready, in doth gilt, 3^. 6d. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also picture boards, 2s.
A SIEGE BABY. By the same Author.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs Edward

Kennard. Also picture boards. 2s.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.' Also,

picture boards, 2s.
MONA'S CHOICE. By the same Author.

KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Also, picture

boards, 2s.

A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.

THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Also, picture boards 2s.

STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Edward Kennard. Also picture boards, 2s.

TWILIGHT TALES. By the same Author. Illustrated.

SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.

THE CRUSADE OF 'THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte.

CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.

A REAL GOOD THING. By Mrs Edward Kennard.

DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.

F. Y. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

THE RACE IN THE DESERT.

The next day was quite a gala day amongst
the Halawins. The tribe was all en fete,
and had organised a series of sports and
races amongst themselves ; but the great
event of the day was to be, of course,
the match between their Sheikh and the
Englishman. Their pickets reported there
was no sign of the enemy to be seen along
the route to Korti. Lances stuck into the
ground, with pennons fluttering from their
heads, indicated the track. These lances
were to be kept to the left hand, both going

VOL. HI. A

and returning, and at the turning point
two lances had been tied together, so as
to distinguish that point from the other
landmarks. The course chosen ran from
the Wells into the desert towards Korti,
but in an oblique direction from the regular
route. All this had been carefully explained
to Jack, and it had been decided
that the race should be run in the afternoon,
as soon as the sun got a little low in
the heavens.

Jack Cuxwold had looked after The
Mummer himself, and had spent the morning
puzzling over many things. None,
perhaps, had mystified him more than this
note that Zelne had placed in his hands.
What could it mean ? Was it really an
amulet, as she had said ? Did she really
wish her father to be beaten in this match ?
He had promised not to look at it till after
the race, and he would keep his word. It
should rest in the breast-pocket of his
jacket, till either he had escaped or found
that escape was impracticable. Jack knew
that if he succeeded in getting through the

Arabs, he had still a very stiff job before
him, — the Halawins would be sure to hang
like very wolves upon his trail up to within
a mile or two of Korti. From the Wells
to that place was about fifty miles, and
Jack knew that this would have to be done
almost without drawing bridle. He had no
doubt whatever that The Mummer would
have the speed of the Arabs, but those
wiry desert-born steeds had great powers of
endurance, and greater capacity, perhaps
from habit, of doing better for a long time
without food and water, than an English
horse. Such halts as he might make, he
knew must be exceeding brief, even under
the most favourable circumstances. He
felt sure that his pursuers would never be
very far behind him, and that even with
what looked like a long lead, a few minutes
out of the saddle would be the utmost he
could do to ease The Mummer between
this and Korti. Then suddenly flashed
across him Checquers' whisper, ' Help halfway.'
Ah! he could trust to Jim Checquers!
They had fought side by side in too many

hot fights of late, to fear that he wouldn't
stand to him. Yes, that would make it
easier. A troop of dragoons at the end of
thirty miles would mean safety. ' Ah,' he
thought, with a smile, ' if I haven't, in racing
parlance, spread-eagle my field, by
that time, The Mummer is not at all the
horse I take him to be. There will probably
not be above a dozen fellows within
hail of me by that, and if Checquers turns
up with even a score of troopers, it would
be enough. What a row the beggars are
making already. That they've made it a
regular fete day, I think is in my favour.
There never were a lot of Arabs together,
on such an occasion, who did not set
to work shouting, galloping their horses
about, and generally showing off. There's
a chance that they'll be watching each
other more than me.'

However, at last the time came when
Jack was politely informed that it behoved
him to get into the saddle. He had saddled
The Mummer some little time before, and
now went to tighten his girths, and to casta

last scrutinising look over all his appointments.
That done, he swung himself into
the saddle, and proceeded leisurely down
to the starting-post, where Mohammed
Sebekh, with a large group of the leading
men of his tribe, were already assembled.
Cheap as the Sheikh held the English
horse, he was not going to throw away a
point in the game. He had divested himself
of his customary steel shirt and headpiece,
and was clad in light attire.

Front de Boeuf knows something about
it,' though Jack, * and is not going to throw
away a pound, if he knows it.'

The Sheikh motioned Jack to bring
The Mummer alongside the beautiful little
Arab that he himself was riding. The
two horses offered a most striking contrast.
The English, a great slashing bay,
standing sixteen hands high, looked fit to
carry his diminutive rival, who was a bare
fourteen two. But certainly for looks the
Arab had it. He was handsome as a
picture, while The Mummer could only be
described as a big, plain, powerful horse

whose good qualities were hardly visible,
except to a practised eye.

The start in a long race of this description
is not a matter of much importance
said Mohammed Sebekh. ' Will you give
the word, or shall I ? '

You give it,' replied Jack.

Then go ! ' exclaimed the Sheikh, and,
quick on his legs as a cat, the little Arab
shot to the front like an arrow, and stole
something like six lengths' start. Of no
great importance this in a ten-mile race.
Jack, too, had been in no hurry to get
off. He knew The Mummer was a slow
beginner, but that in due course his
stride must tell, and therefore he followed
leisurely along in the wake of his leader.
But Mohammed was no fool ; and though,
Arab like, he had dashed off with a tremendous
spurt, he knew well enough that
no horse that ever was foaled could go
pretty nearly at his best for such a distance
as lay before him to-day. Before he had
gone half a mile, he had pulled his horse
up to a hand-gallop, while The Mummer,

who was lying some twenty lengths behind
him, and had now settled into his stride,
was doings a mere exercise canter.

Jack paid very little attention to his
antagonist. His eye was roving keenly
around in all directions, to see what place
offered him the easiest opportunity of
breaking through the assembled Arabs.
These clustered thick round the starting
which was also the winning-post ; there
were lots of groups, too, all the way along
that side of the course which ran obliquely
to the road to Korti, and that he must
break throusj^h them somewhere on that
side, was essential. They ran in these relative
positions for the next two miles, and
then Jack saw when his opportunity must
come. It must be remembered that the
Halawins were in scattered groups extending
over five miles, consequently there
were numerous and extensive gaps between
these groups. The Arabs kept
galloping about from one to another, and
the groups therefore varied considerably
in size. Sometimes they congregated in

great force in one, while the next did not
consist of half a dozen. As they sped on,
Jack noticed that the group next the
turning-post was very numerous, but the
next knot to it had dwindled down to
some three or four, most of the men who
had originally constituted this latter having
galloped across to the turning-post
group to see the competing horses come
round that post, and between those two
Jack determined his rush should be made.
They were a good half-mile apart, and
The Mummer had not been called upon
to gallop as yet. As they entered upon
the fifth mile, Jack began to steal up to
his antagonist, and as they neared the
turning-post, had got within two lengths of
him. Mohammed became startled. He
had thought the English horse done with,
and toiling hopelessly along in his rear
by this. He put on a tremendous spurt,
while Jack for the first time let The
Mummer out in earnest, and for a few
strides forged ahead. Then he pulled his
horse back again, as the Arabs supposed,

to enable him to lose as little ground as
possible in rounding the post. Mohammed
came on again with the lead, and
with the sharp Arab bit, swung his horse
round the post with marvellously little loss
of ground. As for The Mummer, he
came again suddenly with a wet sail, shot
past the post, without attempting to turn
it, and, to all appearance, having overpowered
his rider, bolted in the direction
of Korti, Jack sitting well back in his
saddle, making, as they thought, the most
frantic efforts to stop him.

It was some seconds before the Arabs
comprehended the ruse, and by that time
Jack was once more leaning forward in
his stirrups, and stretching away towards
Korti with a lead of something like half
a mile. Then from many a throat burst
forth a cry of anger that they should have
been made such fools of, and into many a
steed the rowels were sharply driven, as
his rider started forth in pursuit of the
mad Englishman who had so laughed at
their beards.

Away stretches The Mummer, running-parallel
to the regular route to Korti, and
for the first time the Halawins become
cognisant of the long, swinging stride of
an English thoroughbred. Vainly do they
press their desert-born steeds in pursuit;
the English horse is leaving them further
and further every minute, and, as those in
the van see plainly, is going quite at his
ease, and well within himself. As for Mohammed
Sebekh, he had sped almost a
mile in the opposite direction before the
cries of his people made him look round
for his antagonist, and brought to him a
knowledge of what had happened. Then
he pulled up, and, proving how little custom
differs amongst nations, when you once
get at human passions, called his followers
pigs, camels, and sons of burnt mothers 1 '
for having allowed the infidel to throw
dust in their eyes, quite after the manner
of ourselves. He might, in the words of
a popular song of the present day, have
been : —
'Quite English, you know. Quite English, you know.'

But curses don't hatch chickens, and Mohammed
Sebekh's swearing at his own children
did not much affect Jack Cuxwold,
who felt The Mummer croincr strong under
him, in his race for freedom without ransom.
He knew he'd a long gallop before him,
and was hurrying his horse not a whit ;
but his heart bounded as The Mummer
strode along, and he felt that Checquers
had made no mistake in his pick, — that he
was mounted on a fair second-class Queen's
Plater, in very decent condition. He was
leaving the Halawins steadily further and
further behind him, but Jack knew better
than to suppose his pursuers were men to
be disheartened by having the worst of it
thus far. It was a long way to Korti.
They were many, he was alone ; and
though he might have the heels of them,
he was quite aware of the endurance of
those tireless little Arab horses. Still onward,
onward he galloped, and The Mummer
never faltered in his stride. Jack
looked back — he had put the best part
of a mile between himself and the foremost

of his pursuers, and saw now that
they were greatly reduced in numbers ;
still he roughly estimated that there were
a good score sticking doggedly to his skirts.
He pulled up at the top of a small swell
in his sandy path, to give The Mummer a
chance to catch his wind, but saw that his
halt must be short. His relentless foes,
encouraged by his drawing bridle pressed
forward with exulting cries still more hotly
in pursuit. He sets The Mummer going
again, and the old horse strides away, easy
as ever. Jack roughly reckons that he has
now put a good fifteen miles between himself
and the Wells of Howeiyat. Another
ten are traversed without a check, and then
Jack feels, with dismay, that his horse begins
to hang heavily on his bridle, — to
answer with little life to his hand. He
looks back ; in that clear sky and over
those sandy steppes it is possible to see
vast distances. Yes, there come the Hala-wins,
not more than half a mile behind
him ; but their numbers have diminished
slightly, and there are a bare dozen of them

now visible on his track. He halts his
horse once more for a few minutes, which,
of course, lessens the space between himself
and his foes. ' Where is Checquers ^ '
he muttered. ' If he don't turn up soon,
I'm done. My horse will never last into
Korti.'

Once more he starts, but The Mummer
hangs heavily on his bit, and, after another
four miles have been traversed, begins to
pitch in his gallop in a way that, to a horseman
like Jack, heralds that, nurse his steed
carefully as he may, he has about got to the
end of him. He hears the exulting yells
of his pursuers, already regarding him asa
pack of hounds might their sinking fox.
He pulls The Mummer together, and for
the first time sends the spurs sharply home.
He will cross that sand bluff in front of
him, and then, if there is no help visible,
well ! he will distress a good horse no
longer. But ere he reaches his goal, some
thirty or forty British horsemen top the
ridge, and Jack knows that Checquers has
kept his word, and brought ' Jiclp Jialf-way.^

THE WROXETER BALL.

The day of the Wroxeter Ball had come at
last, and Miss Bramton was in the highest
possible spirits. That poem in tulle and
satin is to be exhibited in all its splendour.
The news from Egypt is excellent concerning
Captain Cuxwold. Alec Flood has
telegraphed that Jack is well and unhurt,
though at present a prisoner in the hands
of the Halawin Arabs ; that no doubt a
heavy price will have to be paid for his
freedom, but that he is in no personal
danger whatever, at present. With their
minds set so far at rest, the Ranksborow
family saw no reason for absenting themselves
from either the Wroxeter Ball or
Races. The Countess of late had been

extremely civil to the Bramtons. Lord
Dartree had asked three or four men down
for the ball, and Lady Ranksborow, with a
view to doing the young ladies a good
turn, had invited the Bramton family over
to dinner, so that both girls felt already
ensured against a dull ball. " Amongst the
visitors at Knightshayes was Jim Anson,
who, unwittingly, was destined to be the
cause of a most awkward complication for
the Ranksborow family.

Luncheon over at Temple Rising, the
brisk came round to the door, and,
swathed in furs and rugs, to protect them
from the biting March wind, the family
started to drive to Wroxeter, where it had
been settled that they should stay the
night. The Ranksborows also, with their
party, were at ' The George,' which was
regarded as the leading hotel of the little
town. According to annual custom, that
hostelry was in a state of prodigious fuss
and bustle; smart chambermaids, bedizened
with gay ribbons, coquettish-looking lady's-maids,
and gentlemen's valets, were darting

up and down the passages, apparently
without a moment to spare. Bells were
ringing in all directions ; in the coffee-room
the w alters knew no rest ; and if there where
people at ' The George ' who were taking
their ease at their inn, there was most
decidedly a numerous contingent who were
not. In pursuance of a long-standing engagement,
the Knightshayes party and the
Bramtons had joined forces, and formed
all together quite a large party. They had
taken private sitting-rooms, and agreed
to dine all together. On their arrival, the
Bramtons were shown to their rooms, and
the smart chambermaid w4io waited on
them assured them the house was full to
the attics ; that every hotel in the place
was crowded ; that the town had never
been known to be so full, and that it was
expected to be the best ball and best day's
racing Wroxeter had ever seen.

This will be great fun, Lucy ! exclaimed
Miss Bramton, as they sat sipping
their tea before a blazing fire, after their
drive. ' We shall be a real cheery party.

Mr Anson and all those friends of Lord
Dartree's are nice. I have not had a good
dance for ever so long ; and if you can
only make up your mind to get over the
loss of Mr Flood for one night, we ought
to have a good time.'

Lucy laughed merrily as she replied, —
Mr Flood and I understand each other.
We are good friends, nothing more. You
make a mistake when you think otherwise.
Like you, I'm looking forward to a real
good dance.'

But balls, like other diversions, are often
fraught with disappointment. One can't
say how it is, but the evening we have
reckoned on so eagerly, comes off all
wrong. The room is good, the music is
excellent, but somehow we bungled our
programme ; we have been let in for dancing
with the people we didn't want to, and
made our prayer too late to those for whose
assent we craved. A friend of mine, a
confirmed ball-goer, once summed up the
situation in these words, — ' It's no use
without an object.' I fancy he regarded

VOL. III. B

a pretty hot flirtation as part of the programme,
and that she was not there that

evening.

I wonder whether Lord Dartree will
win tomorrow ?' observed Matilda, after a
slight pause. ' I hope so, for I've not only-got
lots of gloves on The Robber, and
he has promised to put me a ten-pound
note on in the ring before starting. However,
I like Lord Dartree ; independently
of that, I should like to see him win.'

Do you think, Matilda, that he likes
you ? ' asked Lucy.

Yes, my dear,' replied Miss Bramton,
with a saucy smile, as she raised her dark
eyes from the fire, and looked her sister
steadily in the face ; ' I think he does.'

Ah ! but well enough to marry you ? '
said Lucy.

I can't quite say. You might have
put it more nicely — Do I like him well
enough to sav ives if he asks me ? Well,
a sensible earl would think twice before she
said no to the chance of being Countess of
Ranksborow.'

Well, I don't like him said Lucy emphatically.
* I never can ore over the impression
that he is laughing in his sleeve
at us all the time. You recollect his sneer
at papa the other day. It is true, papa is
terribly vulgar at times, but I won't have
him laughed at. If it wasn't the conventional
way of asking Lord Dartree to lunch,
still he was asking him to lunch, and no
gentleman would have made such a reply
as he did.*

Miss Bramton said nothing. In her
heart of hearts she felt sure that the
choice of becoming Lady Dartree would
be vouchsafed her. And she was not at
all pleased that her sister should think that
it was possible that nobleman might not be
in earnest in his attentions. It is true that
she numbered another string to her bow in
Sir Kenneth Landsman, and that her heart
was no more involved in the one case than
in the other. As long as she had the
chance of becoming Lady Dartree, she had
determined that, if possible, Sir Kenneth
should not come to the point.

Well, Lucy,' she said at length, ' if we
mean dressing before dinner, it is about
time we began to see about it,' and with
these words Miss Bramton led the way,
and the two sisters were soon involved
in all the mysteries of the toilet.

We all know them ! those dear old
fiddles of the provincial ballroom, which
play the dance-music of two years or so
past, but, for all that, contrive to put much
more go into the tunes than ever the crack
bands of the metropolis seemed capable of
doing. Perhaps it lies in ourselves, — in
the different and more healthy life we lead
in the country, but men too languid to walk
through a quadrille in London, will throw
themselves into all the abandon oi 2. country
ball, and dance as if bitten of the Tarantula.
The Wroxeter Ball, as rumour had
predicted, was an immense success. There
were a good hundred and fifty people
present, and that was a gathering very
considerably above the average. The
combined party from Knightshayes and
Temple Rising were the centre of attraction

to the whole room. The Ranks-brows,
to begin upon, were popular,
and few who could aspire to the privilege
failed to avail themselves of a turn with the
Ladies Cuxwold, notoriously two of the best
walters in the county. Then everybody
was thirsting for news of their brother,
^ the Honourable Jack,' whom Barkshire
regarded as their hero of the Soudan, with
a lurking suspicion that had he only been
at the head of affairs, Khartoum might
have been saved, and the desert campaign
had a different ending. Then everybody
wanted to know how The Robber was ?
Did Lord Dartree fancy his chance, and
did he still intend to ride him himself? in
which case, all the young ladies felt quite
sure he would win. Then the two Misses
Bramton were far away the prettiest girls
in the room ; and what did their father say
about Damocles ? Their partners supposed
he would win the Derby ; of course,
they were awfully interested in it, etc., etc.
In fact, Miss Bramton was in the seventh
heaven — belle of the ball, and the prettiest

girl of the crack party present at the
County Assembly Rooms that evening,
and no rival to challenge her pretensions,
unless it was her own sister.

Miss Bramton was in the very highest
possible spirits, and she had good right to
be. She was conscious of looking her
best, and she was getting plenty both of
dancing and admiration. Lord Dartree
especially had engaged her for valse after
valse, and Sir Kenneth Sandiman had
found it hard work to inscribe his name
upon her programme. She whispered to
Lucy, as she passed on Mr Anson's arm,
in the full flush of her triumph, —

The best ball I ever was at ; isn't it
lovely 1 '

After supper, the fun became fast and
furious. Wroxeter was one of those old-fashioned
balls at which the custom of
drinking healths was indulged in, and upon
this occasion the health of the Countess of
Ranksborow, as lady patroness, and of
Lord Dartree, Mr Bramton, and Mr Ferryman,
as stewards of the ball and races,

were duly honoured. Lord Dartree returned
thanks for his mother and himself
in a few well-chosen words ; and then fora
minute or two Miss Bramton thought
the something bitter ' ever dreaded had
arisen in her cup, as she saw her father
rise to reply to his health. She knew his
weakness, and her ears tingled in anticipation
of the facetious speech he delighted
to indulge in when such an opportunity
presented itself. But for once John Brandon
refrained. It may be that he was
awed by the brevity of Lord Dartree, but
at all events he returned thanks in the
shortest possible manner. Valse followed
valse, and galop followed galop. At last
there was a temporary lull, and then the
band burst out again into the rollicking air
of ' Sir Roger de Coverley.'

Where shall I leave you, Miss Brandon?'
said Lord Dartree. 'I don't know
whether you intend to dance Sir Roger,
but Wroxeter expects me to do my duty,
and, as the dancing steward, I am told off
to lead the romp.'

'Well, I've promised Sir Kenneth to
join in it, but I hope he won't hold me to
my promise. I see Lucy sitting there ;
take me across to her.'

The Miss Bramtons sat for some little
time watching the turmoil of Sir Roger.
Sir Kenneth had duly made his appearance,
but Miss Bramton pleaded fatigue,
and, after talking to them for a little, he
left the two sisters to their own devices.
Tired of the hubbub of the dance, Matilda
at last proposed that they should change
their places, and the two girls made their
way to a cosy recess just off the door of
the supper-room, and took possession of
the comfortable sofa it contained. It really
was a small room communicating with the
larger one, but the door had been taken
off and the opening draped with coloured
muslin and evergreens. Seated there, they
begun chatting over the events of the evening,
and comparing notes. They were both
very pleased with their ball, and agreed it
had been a capital dance.

It is getting time to withdraw,' said

Lucy. ' Will they never make an end of
this apparently interminable Sir Roger?'

It's no use going to bed, my dear,' replied
Matilda, ' until they do. There can
be no sleep for anybody in the house till
the music is finished. I presume this is
the last dance : Sir Roger is usually the
end of everything.'

Yes,' said Lucy, laughing ; ' especially
one's dress. Tired, hot, and a perfect
wreck with regard to skirts, is the appearance
one usually presents at the close of
that reckless romp.'

At this moment there came a rush of
young men to the supper-room, which they
entered by the ordinary door, and without
passing through the recess in which the
Miss Bramtons were seated. Revellers
these who had been in the van of the
fray, and had acquired a thirst which, as
one of them exclaimed, ' brooked no delay
in satisfying.' It was evident, from
their conversation, that they were composed
of the Knightshayes party, and
Lord Dartree's voice was prominent ashe

ordered the waiters to get champagne
and tumblers.

Glasses like these are no good,' he exclaimed,
' for men who have borne the burden
and heat of the day ; are they, Jim ?'

No,' replied Anson. ' I think that was
about the quickest thing in Sir Rogers ever I
went. By Jove, Dart, you set us a cracker,
from start to finish ! If you make running
tomorrow in the way you did to-night, The
Robber will be done crisp as biscuits long
before he turns into the straight.'

He has been at it all the evening,'
ejaculated another of the party. ' He
was making play, to a disgraceful extent,
with that handsome, dark-eyed girl all the
first part of the evening. I don't know
her name, but she and her sister are the
two prettiest girls in the room.'

Yes,' said Anson, ' it's getting about
time you settled down, Dart ; you might
go farther and fare worse.'

Come away,' whispered Lucy. ' Let
us go.'

Matilda Bramton made a creature of

dissent, and grasped her sister firmly by
the wrist.

You might indeed,' continued Anson.
Old Drygoods, at Temple Rising there,
could plank down a good bit of money
with his daughter, depend upon it.'

'Don't talk nonsense, Jim,' rejoined Lord
Dartree, as he tossed off a tumbler of
champagne. ' It is necessary to keep the
Bramtons in good humour till Damocles
has won the Derby. And Miss Drygoods
is a very jolly girl to flirt with ; but when
you come to marrying, that's quite another
pair of shoes. We Cuxwolds haven't gone
in for trade yet.'

Now it's you who are talking rubbish,'
replied Jim Anson. 'The amalgamation
of the aristocratic and commercial classes
is one of the features of the age in which
we live, sir.'

Oh, get out ! ' replied Lord Dartree, in
the midst of a roar of laughter. ' When
Jim begins to lecture in that way, it's a
sign that the night is no longer young, and
that the wine has flowed freely ! '

Lucy cast one glance at her sister's face
as the two hurried from the recess. The
dark eyes were Heightening with wrath, and
Matilda's face was crimson to the very
roots of her hair.

'Insulting wretches!' she hissed, between
her teeth ; ' did you hear what they
called us ? '

Yes,' rejoined Lucy, who was very pale,
and whose mouth was set in determined
fashion, ' I did ; but Lord Dartree has
made one mistake, Damocles will not win
the Derby I '

A VERY PRETTY QUARREL.

The two girls made the best of their way
to their bedroom, and no sooner had they
entered it, than Matilda burst into a fit
of passionate sobbing. It was a miserable
ending to a most successful evening. Lord
Dartree's insulting words had stuncj Miss
Bramton to the quick. Her pride was
wounded, her vanity outraged ; she who
had thought that she had this man at
her feet, had now discovered that he was
only amusing himself with her.

What does it all mean, Lucy?' she cried.
He should be a gentleman, and yet no
gentleman would make such a brutal speech
about a girl he had been dancing with.'

I think I understand it, in part,' said
Lucy indignantly. ' I suppose Lord Darted

and his father have backed Damocles
for the Derby, and therefore have affected
an Interest in us, which in reality they only
feel in the horse. I always told you I
never could get over the feeling that Lord
Dartree was laughing at us. After the
way he spoke of us, we can never set foot
in Knightshayes again.'

If papa did make his money in trade,
I'm sure it's nothing to be ashamed of.'

No, dearest,' said Lucy soothingly.
You heard what Mr Anson said afterwards,
nobody thinks anything of it in
these days.'

Papa is trying,' moaned Miss Brandon
; ' I wish he wasn't. I wish his talk
didn't savour quite so much of "the shop;"
but to accept his hospitality, and call him — '
and Miss Matilda wept afresh at the bare
recollection of the dreadful name.

Lucy Bramton was, if anything, more
indignant than her sister. True, they had
not been intended to overhear Lord Darted's
speech, but it had been addressed
quite openly to his companions. He might

or might not have been serious in regard
to his views of Matilda, but he had undoubtedly
paid her great attention. A
man had no right to do that, and then
hold the object of such attention up to
ridicule. He had dined continually at
Temple Rising, dropped in to luncheon
whenever it had happened to suit his convenience,
and yet here he was holding up
his host to the derision of his companions.
Lucy had plenty of spirit, and knew that,
in spite of her father's vulgarity, they were
not regarded in this light by their acquaintances
generally. True, people might smile
occasionally at Mr Bramton's solecisms, but
the better points in his character were by
no means overlooked ; and had not Lucy
herself, only a few weeks back, received the
most convincing tribute to her natural pride
and attractions that can be laid at any girl's
feet? Had not a loyal and gallant gentleman
asked her to marry him, and did not
Knightshayes delight to honour Alec Flood?
I shall not go to the races tomorrow ! '
suddenly exclaimed Miss Bramton. 'After

Lord Dartree's insulting words, I couldn't
look any one of the Knightshayes men in
the face. You must do as you like, Lucy.'

We will go home after breakfast, you,
I, and mamma. As for papa, if he is obliged
to attend the races as steward, he can
come home by himself later on ; ' and then
the two girls proceeded rapidly to disrobe,
and Matilda Bramton soon forgot
her troubles in slumber.

As for Lord Dartree, he was in blissful
ignorance of the mischief he had done.
He knew what pains the Earl and all the
family had been at to conciliate the Britons,
and, knowingly, would have been the
last person in the world to offend them.
Did not he and his father both stand to win
heavy sums upon the victory of Damocles ?
Was he not aware that John Bramton
never betted a shilling, but was quite the
man to be furious at any affront offered to
his daughters, and to endeavour to avenge
such insult by any means that lay in his
power. It would be sheer midsummer
madness to offend any of the family ; but

f
Lord Dartree had a wicked tongue that

he could not always control, and was much
given to ridiculing the weak points of his
fellow-creatures. He had, too, when he
made the gibing speech in the supper-room,
drank a good deal of champagne, or else
perhaps he had not been so incautious. He
was now horrifying Anson and one or two
more of his companions, by obstinately refusing
to go to bed till he had had one cigar
and a soda-and-brandy to top up with.

It won't do. Dart — it won't do,' said Anson.
* How do you suppose that you're to
ride over three miles of country, with such
training as this .-^ You'll be blown long before
The Robber is — be sitting like a sack of
wheat on the horse, and spill all our money.'

Don't you fuss, Jim,' replied Lord Darted.
* I'm off to bed as soon as I've finished
this cigar, and shall do the old horse every
justice, you'll see, tomorrow.'

As for ' The George,' it never went to

bed itself upon this annual festival. Some

of its myrmidons were up and about all

night. And there were always some fess
III. c

live spirits who haunted the smoking-room
till daybreak.

It was very well for Miss Bramton, in
all the anguish of her outraged pride and
vanity, to declare that she would go home
and not attend the races next day. It was
natural that Lucy should sympathise with
her sister, which she did most thoroughly,
and declare she would aid and abet her
in her resolution, but when calm reflection
came with the morning, both girls recollected
that some reason must be assigned
for this sudden change of front, — that their
very parents would expect some explanation
as to the why of his hasty return
to Temple Rising. Now Miss Bramton
shrank even from telling the story of her
mortification to her own father, and — as
Lucy said — still less could they publish to
the world the insolence of Lord Dartree.

There is nothing for it, Matilda, but
you will have to *ego sick," and, of course,
I shall play the dutiful sister, and accompany
you home. There's one thing, my
dear. I think we had better give the same

explanation to papa and mamma that we do
to the world generally. Mamma might boil,
but she would have the sense to hold her
tongue; but poor dear father — we know him
so well — if he gets an inkling of the case,
depend on it, he will have it out with the
Ranksborows! He loves us very dearly, but
he is not judicious, and in his first wrath at
hearing that his daughter has been insulted,
he will be " neither to haud nor to bind." '

'Yes;' replied Miss B ram ton ; 'that is
the worst of papa. He is no respecter of
persons ; and I'm bound to say, when his
blood is up, it doesn't greatly matter to him
whether the object of his wrath is an earl
or a chimney-sweep.'

The two girls estimated their father's
character very correctly. John Bramton
was a good-natured man in the main, but,
like many of these good-natured men, when
he did lose his temper he lost it very
thoroughly ; and if there was one point
upon which he was thin-skinned, it was
upon the subject of his daughters. He
was immensely proud of them — proud of

their good-looks — proud of their bringing-up.


My wife and I hadn't their advantages,
you see,' he was wont to say. ' I had to
be earning a having instead of going in
for accomplishments, but my girls they've
been brought up real ladies, from bonnet
to slipper, and, considering the tidy pile I
can give 'em, are fit to marry any one.'

It was not likely that any one would disparage
the Miss Bramtons in their father's
presence, but John Bramton quite expected
visitors to gratify his pride, by showing open
admiration for the young ladies; and the
master of Temple Rising, cordial though he
might be, never really took folks to his heart
who had not, by words or looks, displayed
high appreciation of his daughters. They
might well think it better that he should not
be told the real state of the case,but be simply
informed of Matilda's indisposition, and consequent
inability to attend Wroxeter Races.

That walls have ears,' we've all heard,
and of a surety there is much overhearing
in this world of that not intended for us to

know ; the acquirement of such unbidden
knowledge being productive of much heartburning
usually, from the days of the Garden
of Eden down to the present time.
The ' George Hotel ' was destined to develop
into a very 'whispering gallery'. and
the last people that should have arrived at
confidences,' seemed destined to become
possessed of them. Mr Bramton has been
duly informed by his wife of Matilda's indisposition
; he fussed and fumed, said
it was preposterous, that girls were full
of whimsies, that they owed it to the
county to put in an appearance. A great
idea of what he owed to the county has
grown up of late in John Bramton's mind,
but, for all that, he knew that opposition to
his women-kind was fatal. When the ladies
of his family had decided upon their line of
conduct, he was aware that no words of his
would dissuade them from their intention.
But why is it } ' he asked his wife ;
what is the meaning of it ? Matilda is not
so ill that there's any need to make a fuss
about it. If she don't feel up to going to

the races, surely that needn't hinder the
rest of us. Let her keep quiet here, and
then we can all go home together, after the
day's fun, as we settled to do.'

No, no, John,' replied his wife ; ' it
won't do. We've all our reasons for going
home, and go we must.'

That's where it is,' replied Mr Bramton.
What are your reasons .'^ Such a success,
too, as the gals were last night. Why, here's
Matilda half a countess already. I mean
that Dartree chap's over head and ears in
love with her. What do you do it for .^ '
and here Mr Bramton, sticking his thumbs
in the armholes of his waistcoat, walked
up and down the room swelling with irritation
and importance, like an angry turkey-cock.
' Yes,' he continued, ' you were all
at me, niggle naggle, to push my way into
society; and now I've landed you all amongst
the tip-topers, why, you want to go home.'

Indeed, John, I think we had better.'

And if you think so, Margaret, of course
you will. Home! I've no patience with
you. Why, you can always go home,' and

so saying, Mr Bramton bounced indignantly
out of the room.

The truth was, Mr Bramton's head had
been a little turned of late. He had made
himself extremely popular in the county ;
he had laid himself out to do so ; he had
been liberal in the matter of subscriptions
to hounds, races, hospitals, etc.; he had
entertained well and freely at Temple Rising,
so that it had become the fashion to
vote him a very good fellow, and to pronounce
him not so much vulgar as eccentric.
Then he was extremely proud of the
success of his daughters ; and the idea that
Matilda might some day blossom into a
countess, made his heart swell with exultation,
and ' Here she is,' he thought irritably,
^ throwing away her chances in this
foolish fashion.' Here Mr Bramton paused
and shook his head solemnly. ' Maybe she
ain't, after all,' he muttered. ' Perhaps she
thinks a little holding off like, will make
him speak out. Women understand these
things better than we do ; ' and then, feeling
certain that Mrs Bramton and his

daughters would adhere to their resolution
of returning home, John Bramton bustled
off to secure a fly to take himself to the
racecourse, and give orders that it should
be freighted with a liberal luncheon.

Mr Bramton's arrangements were soon
made, but happening to pass through the
stable-yard, he espied his own carriage in
course of getting ready. He resolved to
go and say good-bye to his family before
they started, and, re-entering the hotel, ascended
the stairs for that purpose. As he
turned the handle of the sitting-room door,
the tones of Matilda's voice raised in passionate
indignation struck upon his ear.
He opened the door softly, and paused fora
moment behind a large screen placed
there to protect the inmates of the room
from the draught of the door.

No, mamma,' exclaimed Miss Bramton,
I'll never speak to any of the Ranksborows
again. No girl was ever insulted so grossly
as I was by Lord Dartree last night. After
paying me great attention all the evening,
to boast to his friends in the supper-room

that he was only amusing" himself with
old Drygoods' daughter, until Damocles
had won the Derby.'

Mr Bramton's face was a study, as he for
the first time heard the sportive nickname
which his noble friend had bestowed upon
him.

It is too true, mamma,' said Lucy. ' Lord
Ranksborow and his son are deeply interested
in the success of Damocles. They
have only taken us up for fear we should
part with the horse. And you will see that
they will drop us as suddenly as they took
us up, their end once accomplished.'

In this she did the Ranksborows injustice.
Their great interest in the victory
of Damocles had undoubtedly induced the
intimacy with the Temple Rising people in
the first place, but neither Lord Ranks-brow
nor any of his family had any intention
of behaving in such bulgarian fashion.
Lord Dartree, no doubt, was merely flirting
with Miss Matilda, and, under the inlluence
of champagne, had made a foolish braggadocio
speech in the supper-room, never intended

to reach their ears, but this was the
front of their offending.

So that is your reason,' said John Brandon,
as he emerged from behind the screen.
Lord Dartree dared to say that of you publicly,
Matilda, did he? You have determined
to go home, merely for that. You're
wrong. You must take your own line, but
I know you had better have faced it out ;
but the man who puts an affront upon one
of my girls settles with me.'

Oh, John, John,' exclaimed Mrs Brandon,
' don't do anything rash ! Don't let
him go, girls. He'll go fighting, and get
shot. Oh, oh ! what am I to do .^ '

'Oh, papa dear, think of the scandal,'
moaned Miss Bramton.

Pray do keep cool, papa ! ' exclaimed
Lucy.

Cool ! Damn it ! ' cried John Bramton,
what's come to the women! What do you
mean talking of being shot .^ I never fired
anything but a pop-gun in my life. Keep
cool ! Why, damme, do you suppose I'm
in a passion } '

It would have been a very allowable supposition
for anybody who saw Mr Bramton
just then, to have arrived at.

No,' he continued. ' You've determined
to go home ; very good, go ; but
when a man insults my family, I know
how to deal with him.'

Oh, papa, dear, you are dreadfully excited
; promise us, promise us you will do
nothing rash ! ' cried Lucy.

Pooh, pooh, child ; don't you fret yourself.
I'm not going punching heads, or any
nonsense of that kind ; but I'll give that
Dartree chap a bit of my mind, before
many hours are over, I'm determined.'

It was in vain that Mrs Bramton and her
daughters tried to induce John Bramton to
come home with them and abandon his purpose.
In vain Matilda pleaded that she
should die of shame if the story came out.
John Bramton was dogged, angry, and immovable
in a way of which his family had had
no former experience ; and with a dread sense
of impending disaster, Mrs Bramton and her
daughters drove back to Temple Rising.

DEATH OF LORD Dartle E.

Having seen his family depart, Mr Bramton
was more than ever resolute to have this
affair out with Lord Dartree, the Earl of
Ranksborow, or, for the matter of that, indeed,
with the first of the Cuxwold family
he could lay hands upon, sooner than not
speak. He was boiling with indignation.
He, the shrewd, sharp business man, whose
boast it was that people rarely got the best
of him, had been socially made a downright
fool of by this arrogant Ranksborow lot.
He who had flattered himself that he and
his were upon friendly terms with the great
magnates of the county, had suddenly discovered
that he was a mere cat's-paw for
their convenience. — that neither his wealth.

sagacity, nor the good looks of his daughters
counted an iota in their eyes, — that it was as
the mere owner of Damocles — a horse upon
which the Earl and his son stood to win
an enormous stake — that he possessed any
value in their eyes, — that had Mr Stubber,
the trainer, commanded entire control over
the animal, he would have been of more
importance In their sight. He chafed ; he
raged horribly. He did not understand this
accursed game of society. What did he
want with Temple Rising, and the acquaintance
of all these great people, who
ate his dinners, drank his wine, pressed him
to subscribe to this, that, and the other,
tugged at his purse-strings in all directions,
and wound up by calling him ' Old Dry-goods
' behind his back }

He was a little new, you see, in the great
game of social amenities, — not quite prepared
to hear with a pleasant smile that
the dear friend who had sat at his table on
the Monday had made merry at his expense
before the week was over. But it is so,
my brothers, and ever will be. What does

it matter ? Let them be pleasant in our
houses, or pleasant to us in theirs, and let
us reck little what their opinion concerning
us may be. Let us remember only that
our pleasant acquaintances are pleasant as
the sweet-throated songsters of the spring,
but that the words of true friends, like
the song of the nightingale, are heard but
seldom.

Mr Bramton's first move was to send
word to Lord Dartree to say that he should
be glad to speak to him. In reply, he was
informed that his Lordship had not as yet
risen, which, although it served to further
increase the irritation of Mr Bramton, was
as nothing to the irritation it was causing
Jim Anson, and two or three others who
had backed The Robber for the Hunt
Steeplechase. As Anson pleasantly put
it to his companions, —

'We're in the hole, my boys. Dart
is a tolerable performer when he keeps
straight ; his dancing all night wouldn't
have hurt him, but lashings of champagne
and buckets of brandy and soda-water

would settle any man's wind for three miles
of racine-pace across country next day.'
And then lamentations sadder than those of
Jeremiah arose over the backsliding of one
of the leaders of the people, and these 
Gentiles hastened to hedge
their money to the extent of their ability.

Mr Bramton, still fuming, still fussing,
and by no means sweetening in temper,
hovered about the landings, hune about
the corridors, asked petulant questions,
and glared with angry eyes in the direction
from which that peccant nobleman,
Lord Dartree, might be expected to
emerge ; but, oblivious of the impending
storm, my lord slept sweetly on, and neither
the riding of The Robber nor the wedding
of Matilda Bramton troubled his slumbers.
At length Mr Bramton encountered Lord
Ranksborow, and, in default of Lord Darted,
determined to speak his mind to him.

Lm sorry to hear of Miss Bramton's indisposition,'
said the Earl courteously. ' I
hope it is nothing serious ; but I am afraid
she must be very unwell, as Mrs Bramton

and her sister thought it necessary to accompany
her home.'

Yes, it is serious,' replied John Brandon.
' In the meantime, I have just a few
words to say to you, if you'll oblige me by
stepping into this room for a few minutes
The Earl looked somewhat astonished, but
at once complied with the request. ' Now,
my lord,' continued Bramton, as he closed
the door behind him, ' I've come and settled
down in these parts as a neighbour of yours,,
and with a wish to be neighbourly. I'm
a plain man, and ain't had the advantage
of polish, I know, still I thought the two
families were friendly. You and yours
were always welcome at Temple Risings
and the best there was in the house was
freely placed at your disposal'

I really don't know what all this tends
to, Mr Bramton,' rejoined the Earl. ' Nobody,
I am sure, has ever questioned the
hospitality of Temple Rising.'

I hope not — I trust not,' replied Mr
Bramton hurriedly. * What do you think
of this, my lord ? A young man, whom I

have welcomed to my house ; who knew
that there was, so to speak, a knife and
fork for him whenever he chose ; who professed
great admiration for my daughter,
and friendship for all of us, turns us all into
ridicule over the supper-table last night, —
laughs at the idea of his attentions to Old
Drygoods' daughter — that's me, my lord —
being serious, and saying that he was only
amusing himself, and keeping Old Dry-goods
in good humour until Damocles had
won the Derby. I ask, what would you
say to that ? I ask you,' continued Brandon,
raising his voice, ' what do you say to
that, Lord Ranksborow ? '

A horrible suspicion that Dartree had
made a fool of himself shot across the
Earl's mind, but it was with the utmost
unmoved courtesy that he replied, —

I cannot but think that you have been
misinformed, Mr Bramton. You are surely
not speaking from your own personal knowledge.
This must be the malicious report
of some woman, who is annoyed at the
success your daughters were at the ball.'

VOL. III. D

'It is no malicious report, my lord!' cried
Bramton passionately. ' But you're right ;
the story was told me by a woman, and that
woman was my own daughter, who unknowingly
found herself and her father held upas
an object of ridicule by Lord Dartree for
the amusement of his friends.'

You must be mistaken, Mr Bramton,*
replied the Earl. ' The allusion was probably
to somebody else, and Miss Brandon,
in her natural indignation at conceiving
these remarks meant for herself, has probably
very much exaggerated what actually
was said.' The Earl might endeavour to
gloss over what had passed as best he
might, but in reality he felt no doubt that
Dartree had what is termed ' put his foot
in it.' 'The confounded fool!' he muttered,
knowing what we have at stake, to dream
of breathing anything but admiration about
the Bramtons.'

Oh, no, my lord, I've made no mistake
about it. Your son has grossly insulted
my daughter, and no man does that without
my having satisfaction for it.'

It is rather obsolete,' rejoined the Earl,
with considerable hauteur, * but I will take
upon myself to assure you that Dartree
will meet your wishes in any way upon
that point.'

Pooh ! pooh ! my lord, now you're talking
pistols. You don't suppose I'm going
to make a cock pheasant of myself and getup
to be shot at, do you '^. No, my lord,
when a swell like you puts an insult on a
man like me, we make him pay for it, — pay
for it, d'ye hear ? ' And with the last
words John Bramton's voice rose almost
to a scream.

You are exciting yourself very needlessly,
Mr Bramton,' returned the Earl
sternly ; ' and are better aware than I am
of what grounds you have to go upon.
Since you prefer to take it in that way,
allow me to point out that the matter now
becomes one for our respective solicitors
to determine.'

'You don't understand me,' retorted
Bramton. ' Do you think I'd drag my girl
through all the publicity of a law court,

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

even supposing your son was engaged to
her — which I don't at all hint that he is.'

Excuse me, Mr Bramton,' said the Earl
haughtily ; * don't you think we had better
come to the point at once. What is it you
want Dartree to do ? '

I told you you shall pay for it, and
you shall,' rejoined John Bramton, almost
fiercely. ' Damocles shall not start for the
Derby. And I know what that means to
both you and your son.'

The Earl simply shrugged his shoulders,
as he remarked, —

That is a point, Mr Bramton, upon
which you will, of course, exercise your
own discretion. Bear in mind what I told
you. Do it, and you will find yourself the
most unpopular man in England;' and with
this curt observation Lord Ranksborow
strolled leisurely out of the apartment.

They're grit, they are, these swells, and
no mistake,' murmured John Bramton, ashe
looked vindictively after the Earl's retreating
figure. ' That's as good, pretty
nearly, as a hundred thousand pounds out

of his pocket, and yet he don't make so
much fuss about it as I've seen a fellow
make over a losing deal at penny Van John.'
Mr Bramton started for the races in
gloomy dudgeon. He had meant to have
gone there in his own carriage, with posters,
and kept a sort of open' house to all comers
during the afternoon. He had looked
forward to their all enjoying it — to his
daughters being surrounded with admirers,
to having a real afternoon's fun, and a
jolly gossip over everything, as, the races
done with, they drove back to Temple
Rising ; and now all was changed. He
was going there alone, the insult to his
daughter was rankling in his breast, and
his quarrel with the Ranksborows was not
cheering to look back upon. He had liked
his noble neighbours, and, though repenting
him not one syllable of what he had said,
was sorry to find they were so utterly false.
The most unpopular man in England,' he
muttered to himself ' Damme, to avenue
an insult to a gal of mine, I'd stand being
boycotted by the whole kingdom.'

Well, Dart, how do you feel ? ' inquired
Jim Anson, as his lordship, after weighing
in, emerged from the room at the bottom
of the Stewards' stand. ' Do you feel like
landing the chips ? '

I feel chippy enough,' replied Dartree,
though not quite in that sense. You were
right, Jim, I had just one cigar too many
last night.'

A little too much of everything,' replied
Anson drily. ' Never mind, old fellow ;
you pull yourself together, and if you can
only hold The Robber for the first mile,
you'll be there or thereabouts at the finish.'

He does pull,' replied Dartree ; ' but
he won't get away with me, though he's
not a pleasant horse to ride till he has
settled down.'

John Bramton was destined to have a
very uncomfortable time of it that afternoon.
Lots of his acquaintance gathered,
as may be easily supposed, round the well-known,
hospitable carriage, where a cheery
word, a snack, or a glass of sherry, were certain
to be forthcoming. That these friends

should manifest much surprise at the absence
of Mrs and the Miss Bramtons, was
only natural ; and— this was gall and wormwood
to John Bramton — his visitors were
all full of The Robber. ^ A good man and
a good horse. Lord Dartree rides much
better than most of those encased against
him.' So often was this reiterated, that
John Bramton, a man who never bet, from
sheer temper could not resist laying short
odds against The Robber, to a mild extent.
It was the mount, remember, of the
man who had insulted his daughter, and,
let the result of the race be what it might,
John Bramton most fervently hoped that
The Robber might be handsomely beaten.
But the saddling bell rings out, and the
horses for the open Hunt Steeplechase
pace slowly past the stand. None, perhaps,
look better than The Robber. A low,
lengthy brown horse, trained evidently to
perfection, and whose rider is attired in the
very acme of a gentleman jockey's get-up ;
sits his horse, too, like a workman ; and,
as is well known in the countryside, Lord

Dartree is bad to beat when hounds are running
in earnest. As he brings his horse
down a good swinging breather in the
preliminary, more than one fair denizen of
the stand offers to back him recklessly for
gloves, challenges which those cavaliers in
their vicinity have no option but to accept.
The horses cluster round the starting-post,
and although for a few minutes The Robber
shows a little temper, that difficulty
is speedily overcome, and the lot are despatched
in an excellent start. Before they
had gone a few hundred yards, it is evident
that The Robber is fighting for his head,
but so far his owner holds him in a vice,
and compels him to display a decent amount
of sobriety at his fences. But Jim Anson
and other experts, whose race-glasses are
riveted upon him, can see clearly that the
horse is both fractious and pulling terribly.
By Gad ! ' exclaimed Jim, ' I trust Dart
will come well out of it ; but that devil will
require all the man's muscles to hold today
; and if he does get away, well. Dart
may write to his friends.'

Fence after fence is passed, but it is
evident that upon more than one occasion
The Robber, in his impetuosity, has gone
wondrous near making a mistake. Still,
pull as he may, as yet his owner holds him
in a grip of iron ; but Dartree is painfully
conscious that he can maintain the strain
but little longer. If the pulling is not out
of his horse, he knows very well that the
counter resistance is pretty well out of his
arms. Let The Robber but pull in this
way for another half-mile, and, as Dartree
grimly ejaculates to himself, he must just
gang his ain gait, and will probably lose
the race, and give me a rattling cropper.'
Steady, you brute, steady,' he continues,
but, despite all he could do, The Robber
rushed a stake and binder, and sent the
splinters flying in all directions. The horse
was near upon his knees that time, and his
rider fondly hoped it had settled him ; but
he only shook his head sullenly, and tore at
his bit more savagely than before.

I'm clean beat,' muttered Lord Dartree,
'and he must have this in his own fashion.'

It was a low rail and ditch, and the
horse took it in his stride. The strain
upon his jaws once relaxed, his rider found
it impossible to get another pull at him; the
horse raced along like a mad thing. The
next fence was a big bank, with a ditch on
either side. Vainly did Lord Dartree try
to steady him at it ; it was useless ; the
horse was quite out of hand, and, tearing
down at the fence as hard as he could lay
legs to the ground, endeavoured to compass
it in one jump. He hit the crest of
the bank heavily, and turning a complete
somersault in the opposite field, fell heavily
upon his rider.

A low ejaculation of horror ran through
the stand, chiefly on the part of the ladies.
The men were too used to croppers in the
hunting-field to attach much importance to
a fall, bad though it might be to look upon ;
but another minute, and the men looked
grave, and asked each other in bated whispers
what had happened, for both horse and
man lay motionless where they had fallen.

SOMETHING WRONG WITH DAMOCLES.

Not a sign, not a move —-man and horse
lay there so still they might have been
turned to stone, and an awestruck whisper
runs through the stand that both are resolved
once more to the clay from which
they sprung. Already the mysterious
crowd that springs up from nobody knows
whither, as the sequence of a bad accident,
has gathered round the prostrate
forms of man and horse. There is little
thought now of the race ; all eyes are
strained to the spot where the tragedy has
taken place, which, though some little distance
off, is still distinctly visible from the
stand. Another instant, and Jim Anson
dashes from the lawn, exchanges a few words

<b

with one of the ' whips ' employed in keeping
the course, which results in that official
jumping off his horse and giving Anson a
leg up on it. The latter gallops off in the
direction of the accident, and is speedily seen
to arrive there. A little more, and the spectators
can make out that a group of men,
headed by Anson, are making their way
slowly towards the stand. Everybody by
this time knows what has happened. Even
from the white lips of the Countess comes
the pitiful moan — ' Badly hurt. Ah, yes,
crushed, frightfully mangled, but not dead,
for Heaven's sake, say not dead ! ' But the
fiat has gone forth. Lord Dartree has met
his doom, under the very eyes of his mother
and sisters, and The Robber has broken
his own neck, and his master's.

That an occurrence like this should casta
gloom over the day's sport, may be easily
supposed. Several families left the course,
out of respect for Lord and Lady Ranks-brow.
Many a head was bared as the
Knightshayes carriage passed slowly off
the course, bearing with it the sore-stricken

Countess and her dead ; but the set, stern
face of the grim Earl took no heed of such
marks of reverence, rightly interpretingthem
as homage due solely to the Destroyer.
Amongst all' the spectators who had witnessed
Lord Dartree's tragical end, none
had perhaps been more shocked than Mr
Bramton. The dead man had insulted him
in his most vulnerable point. He had come
there hoping to see him defeated ; he who
had never bet had even laid a few trifling
wagers against The Robber, and had looked
forward to the winning of such bets with no
little exultation. Not an hour ago he was
filled with rage against Lord Dartree. He
hated him; he thought only of howto avenge
himself on him — and now there was no Lord
Dartree. Prompt though he might be to
resent any affront offered to his daughters,
John Bramton could not be termed a vindictive
man. Besides, few men carry their
enmity beyond the grave. John Bramton
half wished now that he had not been in
such a hurry to speak his mind. Only a
few weeks ago messages of sympathy and

condolence had been constantly sent over
from Temple Rising to Knightshayes, on
account of the younger son ; and now that
this inexorable affliction had befallen the
elder, he did not see how it was possible
after his interview with the Earl that morning,
to tender such neighbourly offices.

Now, when a man feels that he has
allowed his temper to get the better of
him, and done that which in his cooler
moments he is conscious is neither fair nor
just, there is only one way to stifle regret,
and that is, to nurse his wrath, to be constantly
lashing himself into a rage over the
subject, whatever it may be. Mr Bramton
is quite aware that he has threatened to
punish Lord Ranksborow for his son's
actions. He knows it is preposterous to
hold the Earl responsible for Lord Darted's
words. The latter was a man about
thirty, and therefore legally and morally
liable for what his hand might do or his
tongue might say. That Lord Dartree's
offence had been very gross there was no
denying, but still his father was not to

blame for it. Upon the whole, Mr Brandon
was sorry that he had not had a little
more patience, and waited till he could
have had speech with Lord Dartree himself.
Had he done that, little as it was
possible to foresee it, there would have
been probably no reason to give utterance
to such words at all.

Mr Bramton, on his way home to Temple
Rising, marvels much as to what his wife
and daughters will say to the news he brings
them, and reflects somewhat ruefully that
the death of Lord Dartree will probably
leap to a reaction in favour of the Knight-shades
people, and that it is more than possible
that the ladies of his household will
be unanimous in condemning him for his
ill-timed interference, and once more impress
upon his mind how very much better
it would be if he would leave all social
questions for them to deal with. Yet, for
all that, Mr Bramton faltered not a whit as
yet in his resolve that Damocles should not
run for the Derby. And as we know, in
her hot wrath, Lucy had decidedly come to

the same conclusion, it must be admitted
that Lord Ranksborow's great coup looked
at present very unlikely to come off.

When John Bramton reached home, he
found his family all agog to know what had
taken place between him and Lord Dartree;
and when he briefly narrated the tragedy
of the day, a great silence fell upon them
all. It was so utterly unexpected, that
they knew not what to think. It seemed
as if their anger of the previous night, and
the whole scene in the supper-room, were
as things far off; in fact, as Lucy said, —
it seemed months ago since they had
happened.'

The death of Lord Dartree operated ina
way which even his father, the most interested
person in the affair, had failed to
realise upon the occasion. Commonplace,
prosaic enough, but, nevertheless, when,
deeply indebted, we shuffle off this mortal
coil, it is to our nearest relatives that our
creditors look for payment. Legally responsible
they may not be, but when there
are means, it is seldom the moral obligation

is disputed ; and short, indeed, was the
time permitted to elapse before the main
part of his dead son's liabilities were respectfully
submitted to Lord Ranksborow.
The Earl made no complaint : he was of
that kind that meet all such engagements
to the very best of their ability. He had
no thought of repudiating the responsibility
of his son's debts for a moment. He muttered
grimly, — ' Dipped deeper, my poor
Dart, than even I ever dreamed of, and yet
I guessed that you were burning both ends
of the candle as gaily as I did mine in my
own youth. It's a case of Knightshayes
to the hammer, and, I suppose, a dull, dreary
life in some continental town for the remainder
of my existence. There was just
one chance left us, and poor dear Dart's
foolish tongue has effectually extinguished
that. I know how young men, after supper,
will talk of these things ; but it's bad form
to begin with, and, knowing the stake we
had on it, poor Dart ought to have been
more careful'

In the meantime, Mr Stubber is perfectly

VOL. III. E

aghast at the contents of a letter he has received
from his new employer. It Is seldom
Mr Bramton deigns to write concerning the
horses trained in his name, but the note
which has thrown Mr Stubber into such a
state of perturbation, while expressing much
pleasure at hearing from his — Stubber's —
weekly bulletin that the horses were in excellent
health, and doing well, further says
that he — John Bramton — has pretty well
made up his mind to part with Damocles,
providing he gets an eligible offer, rather
regretting that he has not already done so,
and saying that, fortunate as that colt has
hitherto been, yet the vicissitudes of a racehorse's
career are such as would justify no
non-racing man in not taking the earliest
opportunity of disposing of such property.

To say that Mr Stubber, in sporting
metaphor, positively ' valued round ' upon
the receipt of this intelligence, barely describes
his state. Here he was within three
weeks of the Two Thousand, with the first
real Derby crack it had ever been his fortune
to train galloping strong as a lion, and

now he was told that the col would not be
wanted ; or, at all events, if he was, it
would be from other hands than his. It
was heartbreaking. He had watched over
Damocles as if he had been a child of his
own, — given much more care to, and been
much more anxious about him, indeed, than
he had ever been about his own ruddy,
rosy-cheeked, boisterous progeny. In his
hands, the colt had won every race he had
ever started for. He had looked forward
to being crowned this spring with the
Isthmian wreath, and now some other was
to benefit by the fruits of all his trouble
and experience.

It's heartbreaking,' he murmured. ' I've
run straight through all my life, but, dash
me ! if this ain't enough to justify a chap in
sending away an 'loss with a bucket of
'' something " and water inside him that
would effectually stop his galloping for the
next six weeks. Oh, Lord! if poor Richard
Bramton had only lived ; but this shopkeeping
chap — as they tell me he is — well,
he knows nothing about sport, and, as far

as he's concerned, the 'loss Is of no more
account than the goods in his wares.'

Mr Stubber, in his anxiety, wired a
message to Mr Skinner, requesting that
gentleman to come down and see him at
once. Mr Skinner promptly complied
with the request, and during his brief
visit occurred an incident that had the
effect of, for a time, revolutionising the
betting on the Derby.

Although it was the first week in April,
the fierce forester, which had menaced
both men and horses during the past
month, searching out most bitterly all
those delicate of chest, or deficient of
lung-power, had not yet relaxed its grip
of the country one whit. If the mornings
were bright, they were biting ; and when,
a little before eight, on the morning after
Mr Skinner's arrival, the trainer entered
the stables, with a view to accompanying
his charges up on to the Heath, he was
met by his head lad, who exclaimed, —

This is a rum start, sir, and I'm blessed
if I know what to make of it ! It looks

very much to me as if there had been an
attempt to try some Httle hanky-panky
business with Damocles.'

Why, what's the matter ? ' exclaimed
the trainer breathlessly.

Well, when I got down this morning, I
found the window of his box wide open.'

And it was a sharp frost, too, last
night ! ' ejaculated Mr Stubber. ' Does
the horse look any the worse ? '

Not that I can see, sir ; nor are there
any signs that anybody passed through the
window.'

Mr Stubber said nothing more, but
walked straight to the box, and carefully
examined the colt. No, as far as he could
see, the horse was in perfect health. He
examined the box narrowly, but if any
pernicious food had been thrown into the
box through the window, there was no
trace of it left. There were no marks
on the sill or sides of the window to indicate
the passage of anybody through it ;
and, though quite big enough for any one
of diminutive stature to effect an entrance

by, yet it was not so easy but what he
would probably have left scratches on the
paint ; but no, the only two facts that
could be ascertained were that the window
had been found open in the morning, and
that the horse was apparently none the
worse for it. Mr Stubber, in his bewilderment,
at once rushed off to consult his
guest. He had an immense opinion of
Skinner's astuteness. The commissioner
heard the trainer's story without a single
comment, and then merely said, ' Let me
look at the horse and the box.'

By the time they came out, the whole
string of horses, with their respective boys
on their backs, were pacing round the
yard in Indian file, awaiting the mandate
to go on to the Heath. Mr Skinner eyed
the horse narrowly, and remarking, * There
doesn't look anything the matter with him,
certainly ; now, let's see the box.' But
Mr Skinner, though he inspected it very
closely, could make no more out of it than
the trainer had done. For a minute or
two, after he had finished, he was apparently

lost in thought, and then said, * Now,
Stubber, I'll tell you what I should do if
I were in your place. First of all, put
Damocles back in his box. He's not in
the Two Thousand, so the loss of a day's
work won't matter to him. If he has
caught cold, or swallowed anything likely
to disagree with him, you will know all
about it by tomorrow morning at latest.
It's possible that window might have been
an accident ; but even if it was blown in,
the bolts must have been withdrawn from
the inside. It's a curious coincidence, but
those bolts have evidently been recently
oiled. Come into the house ; I want to
speak to you for a moment.' Following the
commissioner's advice, the trainer gave
orders that Damocles should be unsaddled
and replaced in his box, and then followed
Mr Skinner into the house. ' Now,' continued
the commissioner, as they found
themselves once more in the parlour, ' those
bolts were drawn by one of your own people,
with what object we don't know, but it's not
likely for any good. I'm off to town as soon

as we've had some breakfast. Damocles
not behoof on the Heath will be known in
town, you bet, before I get there. I'm
curious to see what Mr Noel and his pals
do on receipt of the news. If they had anything
to do with the opening of that window,
they will argue, from Damocles not appearing
at exercise this morning, that, whatever
their object might be, it has been effected.
We shan't know for four-and-twenty hours.
The horse may have a drugged apple inside
him, for aught we know, at this very
moment.'

You don't think they've poisoned him ? '
asked the trainer.

No ; but they may have drugged him, for
mere market purposes, — just made him unable
to do his work for a day or two. I shall
learn more in town than I should here. Let
me have a wire to-night, and another tomorrow
morning, just to say how the horse
is. And now, if the trap's ready to drive
me to the station, I'll be off;' and in a few
minutes Mr Skinner was speeding on his
way to catch the London train.

ZELNE's LETTER.

All right, Jack ; it has come off,' was
Mr Checquers greeting ; 'but there wasn't
much to spare. The Mummer is pretty
well done.'

Quite,' said Jack, as he jumped off his
horse. ' I'd just made up my mind that it
was all up, when you appeared.'

As for the Halawins, they had promptly
pulled up when catching sight of the English
dragoons. They would have attacked as
dauntlessly as any of their countrymen, and
risked their lives for the recovery of their
prisoner, had there been the slightest probability
of success ; but with blown horses
to charge an enemy of thrice their numbers,

and of the fighting capacities which they
knew the English possessed, would have
been sheer madness. They retired sullenly,
and as Checquers' sole object was to rescue
Jack Cuxwold, he made no attempt to interfere
with them.

What, Alec Flood ! ' suddenly exclaimed
Jack. ' That you should turn up where
least expected is all in accordance with your
usual habits, but I did think that you were
in England.'

So I was,' replied Flood, * and only came
out to Egypt on your account ; however,
you have done for yourself what I came todo
for you, and are a free man again.'

Yes, thanks to Checquers and the " help
half way," it has come off.' And here Jack
and his subaltern exchanged a hearty hand-grip.


No sooner had Jack shaken hands, and
received the congratulations of some of his
old comrades, than the word was given to
march, and the party was soon leisurely
pursuing its road to Korti.

It was awfully good of you to come out,

Alec,' said Cuxwold; 'though how the deuce
you learnt what had become of me, beats
me altogether. Why, they didn't know
here at Korti till only a few days ago.'

'You were reported "missing" a good
while back, and I started from Knight-shades
pretty nearly as soon as I heard it.
As to your whereabouts, I picked that up
at Cairo. You recollect the gambling-house
tout whom we met there the night Dick
Bramton was killed ? '

Ah ! of course. He came across my
friends that I have just left at the Wells of
Bayuda, and saw that I was a prisoner in
the hands of the Halawins. The scoundrel !
It was thanks to him that their sheikh
named so heavy a sum for my ransom.'

It was rather stiff,' replied Flood ; ' but
that would account for it. That fellow had
picked up a lot of information about you at
Cairo. He had made out that you were the
son of an English " my lord," and, as you
know, fellows of his type always imagine an
English " my lord" is rolling in riches.'

'And I presume,' said Cuxwold, 'he

acquainted you with my whereabouts fora
consideration.'

Ah, yes,' said Flood, laughing ; ' he
sold his knowledge. He has had, I fancy,
as many trades as names, and, I should
say, was always prepared to sell the interests
of any one connected with him, the
moment he was bid money for it.'

*And how did you leave them all at
Knightshayes ?'

They were all very well when I left,
but in a deuce of a state about you, naturally.
All that was known about you was
that you were " missing " — a very ominous
word to have opposite your name, in such
fighting as you've had lately.'

Well, old fellow, it's all over now ; but
it was a case of touch and zo. I was lost
in the desert, had come to the end of my
water, was dying of thirst, and insensible,
when the Halawins picked me up. I
never suffered such agony in my life, I
think, and I fancy a very few hours more
would have settled me.'

Well, Jack, my boy ! ' exclaimed the irrepressible

Checquers, as he ranged up alongside
his captain, ' what does that old robber,
Mohammed Sebekh, think of English horses
verses Arabs, now ? I should like to have
seen the match very much.'

I'm sure I wish you had,' rejoined Cuckold.
' I'd give a good deal to hear how
the Sheikh took the " sell " I played upon
him. It was a ten-mile match — five out and
five in; and when he slipped round the ,
I came straight on, and the consequence
was we were both tearing away from
each other in opposite directions. I daresay
we were a mile apart before he awoke to the
trick that had been played upon him.'

Ah ! And then, after the manner of
humanity, I should be afraid he swore
fluently,' remarked Checquers. 'However,
the whole game is played out here. We
were too late to save Gordon, and, as far
as we can make out, there's nobody else left
to save. The Arabs seem to have finished
off all the Egyptian garrisons, and we are
simply clearing out of Korti as quick as we
can do. Can't imagine anybody wanting

the Soudan myself, more especially when
its present possessors are disposed to fight
for it as they have done.'

Yes,* rejoined Flood ; ^ we've made a
pretty hopeless muddle of the whole business
from first to last ; ' and then the conversation
turned on the doings of the West
Barkshire, and Jack was made acquainted
with how Dartree had got The Robber in
training for the Wroxeter Hunt Steeplechase,
little thinking how tragically that race
was destined to end for his luckless brother.
And then Jack asked if Flood had ever
come across that pretty Miss Bramton ; he
was, of course, aware that they had bought
Temple Rising. Did his own people know
anything of them ?

Know anything of them,' replied Flood,
laughing. ' Fancy your noble father not
knowing a man within a few miles of his
house who owned the first favourite for the
Derby. No, joking apart, your people see
a good bit of the Bramtons. A strong
flavour of the shop lingers about old Brandon,
but he is hospitable as an Arab.'

Oh! come now, Alec, none of your chaff;
I've just had experience of their hospitality!

Well,' replied the other, laughing, ' I
don't mean that exactly. Old Bramton will
give you of the best, and you need be under
no fear that he'll send in a bill. As for the
daughters, they are as pretty, ladylike girls
as need be. Dartree is always philandering
about the elder girl. I don't suppose hein
earnest, but he might do worse, for those
girls, I should think, will come into a lot of
money some day.'

The conversation here dropped, for, to
tell the truth, the thought of Zelne shot
across Jack's brain, and he felt ashamed to
evince any interest in another so immediately
after parting with the girl who had
saved his life and given him her love. And
then he recollected her letter ; he was free
to read it now. But, no ; he would wait
till he was alone. He had an instinctive
feeling that it would be better there should
be no eyes to watch his face when he perused
that missive. He felt that he should
read it with bitter pangs of regret that he

had so ill requited her for the gift of life
that she had restored to him. True, it had
been hardly his fault : he could scarcely
have helped it, but, nevertheless, the fact
remained that he had stolen his preserver's
love, and had had no such love to give her
in return. As for Checquers, he was in the
highest spirits ; he not only was extremely
elated at having contributed to the successful
escape of his dearest friend and captain,
but he was also endowed with a keen
sense of humour; and the more he thought
of the dignified Sheikh — and Mohammed
Sebekh had impressed the graceless Cheques
rather strongly in that particular —
finishing artistically " whilst his antagonist
was scudding away in an opposite
direction, the more uncontrollable became
that young gentleman's peals of laughter.

I can see him now ! ' he cried. ' All
these Eastern ride with deuced short
stirrups, and get their hands up and their
noses down, in moments of excitement.
I've not the slightest doubt he indulged
in demoniacal whoops — they always do.

Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! what that dignified
chieftain's face must have been Hke when
he suddenly discovered that his adversary
had taken a different view of the winnings
must have been a sight for Homeric
laughter. I say. Jack,' he continued, ' I've
never told you what you've got to pay for
The Mummer. Ponsonby set five hundred
on him, but, when he heard what he
was wanted for, said if he pulled through
and you returned him sound in wind and
limb, there was nothing to pay. He was
only too glad to have helped a friend out
of a scrape.'

Very good of him,' replied Cuxwold ; ' it
shall be as he likes. I'll either write him
a cheque, or he can take him back.'

Pooh ! ' replied Checquers, laughing.
< Why, it's a couple of hundred pounds on
his price. A horse that has polished off
the best blood in the Soudan, and left the
lightning steeds of the Halawins as if they
were a parcel of hacks, has, so to speak,
improved his record. I'll tell you what, old
man,' continued Checquers, with a wink, ' we

VOL. III. F

mig-ht send word to Mohammed Sebekh,
that though he lost five thousand on the
match, he can have The Mummer at the
same figure, if he likes ; ' and once more Mr
Checquers burst into peals of laughter.

'All right, my boy,' retorted Jack drily.
Perhaps you would like to take the message
— rather that you took it than me,
you know. I have some idea that you
would not find Mohammed good to jest
with on the subject.'

Perhaps not, perhaps not,' said Mr
Checquers demurely. ' They are devils -
to fight, these Arabs, but they've no idea
of fun.'

With this and similar light badinage was
the way into Korti beguiled. The ride was
nothing to the entire party, with two exceptions
— Jack and his horse. The Mummer
was very leg weary before they reached the
lines, and the ride and the excitement had
told a bit on even Jack Cuxwold's vigorous
frame. Once arrived, he not only had to
report himself to the officer commanding in
chief, and explain the mystery of the missing

despatches, but further to receive the
congratulations of lots of old friends. One
way and the other, it was late before Jack
found himself alone in the tent allotted to
him, and sat down to smoke a final pipe
and read Zelne's letter.

When you open up this,' it ran, * you
will be far away, and we shall have said
good-bye for ever ! Well, it is best so —
men cannot love like women. With us it
is everything ; with you it is only a part of
your life. We should have had to part
soon : as well now as a little later. What
you are going to do I don't know exactly,
but I know every turn of your countenance,
and can read what is written there. I feel
that this race is a mere pretext, and that you
are about to endeavour to trick my father in
some way. If I gave but a hint that you
dreamt of escaping, it would be impossible
; but I could not betray you if I would.
When you read this, the risk you run will
be over ; and you do run some risk, for the
Halawins are not wont to stay their hands
when their blood is up, nor is my father a

man to be mocked in the face of his tribe.
But you are strong and you are brave, and
I feel you will succeed. I found you, and I
loved you from the first. It was my Kismet.
I shall look back upon it as a sweet dream
all my life. No, I do not regret it. I
would rather have lived this brief delirium
than have never known what it was to
have really loved. Farewell ! May Allah
bless and prosper you ; and, in the years
to come, spare a thought now and again
for — Elsewhere

was a queer gurgle in Jack's pipe
as he finished, and the tobacco seemed all
to have gone the wrong way. He thought
sorrowfully of what a pretty girl she was,
and loathe probabilities were that he should
never set eyes on her again. Better indeed
he should not, as he was forced to admit ;
nothing but misery could come of it to
Zelne. Poor girl ! it was a bad find for
her when she came across him in the desert
; she would have done better to have
left him to perish.

Although Jack Cuxwold naturally takes

much blame to himself about the winning
of Zelne s heart, I think that, after all, he
was no such very great sinner in the whole
affair. It was by no means the first time
that the prisoner had found favour in the
eyes of his jailer's daughter, and that the
captive in his turn had proved captor. It
is very natural. Throw a young man and
a young woman together, with much idle
time on their hands, and a love tale is sure
to come of it. But when the man is a
good-looking dragoon, and the maiden has
the hot, passionate blood of the East in her
veins, the fire has met the maize, and a
speedy conflagration is the result. It was
some consolation to Jack Cuxwold, as he
threw himself on his bed, to know that he
had done the very best thing possible under
the circumstances, namely, that he had ran
away from a great temptation ; and, as Alec
Flood said to him, when years after he
heard the story, 'Yes, Jack, you might
have done worse. You ran away from a
great temptation ; soit might have ran
away with it.'

HOMEWARD BOUND.

That the fighting was all over in the
Soudan was clear as daylight, at all events
for the present. With the death of Gordon,
the fall of Khartoum, the massacre of the
last Egyptian garrison, our sole reasons for
being in the Soudan came to an end. There
was nothing left for us but to make moan
for our dead, and to count up the bill which
our vacillating conduct in those parts had
cost us. Unavailing though the work had
been, it had been thoroughly done, and
now there was nought left the desert column
but to make its way back to Lower Egypt
as quick as might be.

The news of Jack Cuxwold's escape from
captivity had been telegraphed to 

the welcome intelligence that no
ransom had been required, and the Lancer
himself was thinking, after such a spell of
active service, whether he might not take
advantage of the present lull in affairs, and
apply for leave to go home to England.
His mind is speedily made up on that point.
He and Flood have once more got down to
Cairo, and are located at Shepheard's Hotel,
when a telegram is placed in Jack's hands,
which, with the exclamation of ' Good God,
how terrible ! ' he hands across to Alec.

'Come home at once,' it said. 'Much
wanted. Dartree killed by a fall from his
horse. Come quickly. — Anson.'

It'll half kill your mother. Jack,' was
Flood's brief comment. ' She fretted her
heart well nigh out about you. This will
be a terrible shock to her. Pull yourself
together, old man, and run off and see about
leave at once. They are sure to make no
trouble about that, I suppose. I'll pay the
bill, take passages, and see our traps packed.
If we look sharp, we shall just catch the
next steamer.'

Under the circumstances, Jack Cuxwold
had no difficulty in obtaining three months'
leave, and twenty-four hours later saw him
and Flood on their way to England. They
had cabled to Lord Ranksborow before
starting, so their arrival at Knightshayes
could be calculated within a day or two.
The news was kept no secret, and in due
time became known at Temple Rising.
Although all communication between the
two houses had ceased, it was not to be
supposed that the Bramtons were not still
deeply interested in the great sorrow of
their neighbours. Mr Bramton, although
he had hardened his heart and said that
such an insult as the dead man's speech
was not to be forgiven, and could not
be passed over, still kept his lips closed
with regard to his rupture with the Ranks-brows,
and the fact of the quarrel between
the two families was even unsuspected in
the neighbourhood generally. The Ranks-brow
family were naturally not seen in
public at present, and therefore there was
nothing to draw people's attention to the

sudden cessation of the intimacy between
themselves and the Bramtons. On one
thing Mr Bramton and his daughter Lucy
were thoroughly in accord ; they would
have no more to do with races or racing.
Damocles and Lucifer should both go as
soon as purchasers could be found for them.
Lucy heard the news of Flood and the
Honourable Captain Cuxwold being on
their way to England, with mingled feelings
of pain and pleasure. Her pulses beat
fast at the idea of meeting Jack again, and
then she thought of how alike their destinies
had been. Each had come home from Cairo
at brief notice, in consequence of the awfully
sudden death of a near and dear relation.
Would he remember her? She sympathised
with him in his trouble now, as he had
sympathised with her then. How kind he
had been. How hard he had striven to save
her from all such worry and annoyance as
lay in his power ; and then the thought
flashed across her, that between them now
there was great gulf fixed. No, she should
never even see him. He was bound to side

with his family; and after that cruel speech
of Lord Dartree's, it was impossible for
themselves and the Ranksborows tc ever
again exchange kindly greetings. Lord
Dartree ! Why he was Lord Dartree now.
And then Lucy burst into a flood of tears.
'Oh why she moaned, 'did Uncle Dick
leave me these dreadful horses ? If it hadn't
been for that, all this would never have
happened. People would have known us
as we are, and not sought our acquaintance
simply because we owned the favourite for
the Derby.' Then she wondered whether
Mr Flood would come and see her, so intimate
as he was with all the Knightshayes
family, he would be sure to side with them.
Besides, staying there as he would be, he
could not very well call at Temple Rising,
after what had happened. No, she should
never meet Jack Cuxwold again. She was
sorry for that. She would have liked to
have thanked him properly for all his kindness
during that time at Cairo, a twelvemonth
ago. And then the blood dyed her
cheeks as she muttered to herself, ' You

little humbug, you know no man ever interested
you nearly as much as Jack Cuckold!'
And as she murmured his name, her
cheeks took even a guiltier tinge.

To Miss Bramton the whole business had
been a great shock. The blow to her pride
and vanity had been, in the first instance,
unmistakably severe. Always with a disposition
to give herself airs, Miss Bramton
had of late established herself on a pedestal
of her own creating, from which she looked
patronisingly down upon her sisters who
were less favoured by nature and fortune.
She had rocked herself into the belief that
half the peerage would be at her feet, if she
chose to hold up her finger, and the awaking
from this dream of self-adulation had been
both rude and abrupt. Then, again, the
tragic ending of Lord Dartree, so suddenly
coming on the top of it, had been a severe
blow to her nerves. She had not been in
love with him, but she had liked him — ay,
liked him so well as to have made up her
mind to marry him. Until overhearing
that fatal speech in the supper-room, Miss

Bramton had looked upon that as a mere
matter of time. She was not altogether
unjustified in regarding such a thing as
likely. She knew she was an heiress ; she
knew that the Earl of Ranksborow was an
embarrassed man, and the amalgamation
of coronets with commerce she knew was
often found a fitting solution of such difficulties.
But at present she took a much
humbler view of her beauty, wealth, and
accomplishments. In these days of her
humiliation. Miss Bramton considerably
abated her pretensions, and was far less
chary of the smiles that she bestowed on
Sir Kenneth Sandiman. That gentleman,
although not very demonstrative, was very
genuinely in earnest. A passionate lover
he could not be called. Perhaps a more
cool, calculating man never essayed to get
married. He was the sort of man who was
certain to speak to the father in the first
place ; and that he had not as yet interviewed
Mr Bramton on the subject, was
due to two causes. In the first place, he
had learnt that Miss Lucy had acquired an

extensive heritage from her uncle, which washers
already in her own right, in addition to
what she might eventually expect to inherit
from her father. To a man regarding matrimony
from Sir Kenneth's point of view, this
naturally made Lucy a more eligible /<2r/z*
than her sister, and it was not until he had
convinced himself that he had no chance
with Lucy, and this — in the outrageous pride
that he regarded his position as a Scottish
baronet — took some time for him to arrive
at, that he sat down in regular form to pay his
addresses to Miss Bramton; secondly, Lord
Dartree had appeared on the scene, and Matilda
had welcomed his attentions so favourably
that it had made Sir Kenneth pause.
Much as he thought of his own status in the
world, he was not in the least blind to the
superior advantages Lord Darted could confer.
The Earl of Ranksborow might be a
needy peer, but then he was simply a needy
baronet. As regarded personal advantages,
Sir Kenneth was by no means disposed to
underrate his own. He was a tall, good-looking
man, about forty — the age of all

others that Sir Kenneth, in his phlegmatic
nature, deemed the fittest for a man to
marry. To say that he considered himself
a most superior person,' is hardly necessary
men of his stamp always do : an idea not
to be got out of their heads by any amount
of demonstration to the contrary — but he
was far too much a man of the world not to
admit that though that would be the view
of any sensible woman, yet women were not
all sensible, and he had known them prefer
the greener wood, with its light and frivolous
shoots, to the more seasoned tree, and
its more sombre foliage. But now this latter
impediment had been removed from his
path, Sir Kenneth had resolved to speak
up as soon as he decently could do ; and as
Lord Dartree had been really nothing to
Miss Bramton but an admirer, there was
no reason he should delay his explanation
beyond a few weeks.

Lord Ranksborow had laid his first-born
in his grave, and now sat at Knightshayes
brooding over the fire, smoking sullenly,
thinking of the ruin hanging over him, and

awaiting the arrival of the sole son left to
him. Till the awful catastrophe at Wrox-
ever, he had no idea of how fond he was of
Dartree. They had had so many wrangles
quarrels they could not be called — over
financial matters, that he had latterly taught
himself to believe that he and ' poor Dart '
were good friends and nothing more. The
dead man's cynical, self-contained nature
had naturally contributed much to this belief.
It is astonishing how often that mask
of cynicism covers a shy and sensitive
nature ; and for a kindly action, or help intime
of need, look to the most cynical of
your acquaintance that you wot of. I don't
mean to say that the deceased Lord Dartree
was quite of that type, but, for all that, he
was a better-hearted man than the world
generally gave him credit for, that brutal
speech in the Wroxeter supper-room being
duly taken into account. As Flood had
foreseen, to the Countess and her daughters
the shock had been terrible. Jack might
be the favourite brother — and Heaven only
knows how a few weeks back they had

sorrowed for him — but the heir of the
house had of late been sojourning under
the family roof-tree ; and had he not gone
forth full of health and spirits, exulting in
doing battle under the old racing banner
of his people, and perished in the fray ?

That Mr Bramton is resolute in his intention
of not running Damocles for the
Derby, the Earl now entertains no doubt.
The betting at Tattersall's is quite sufficient
to tell him that ; the whilom favourite
for the great race now figuring at twenty
to one, while, to Lord Ranksborow's astonishment,
Lucifer occupies a prominent
place in the quotations. Still the fluctuations
in the market are at the present
moment a puzzle to most racing men, as
well as to the Earl. The sporting papers
announce variously that Damocles has met
with an accident — that he is suffering from
that scourge of the training stable, influenza,
differing much in the ailments they assign
to him. On one point only do they concur,
that for the last two mornings he has been
absent from exercise, and that the operations

in the money market indicate that
Lucifer is Hkely to take the place of his
stable companion. The Earl hardly knows
what to think as he reads these varied reports.
At first he made no doubt but that
John Bramton had carried out his threat,
and had either made arrangements for the
sale of the horse, or announced publicly that
he would not be sent to Epsom. But now
he been to wonder whether accident might
not have taken the whole matter out of
Bramton's hands, and the colt have fallen a
victim to some one of the many vicissitudes
of training. As to the market, it puzzled
the most astute turf speculators. Damocles
went up and down like the Funds in a panic,
was knocked about indeed like a very
shuttlecock. No sooner was he driven to
20 to I than Mr Noel and some of the leading
men of the ring, not given to throw their
money away, stepped in and commenced
backing him, with the result of rapidly bringing
him back to about half that price, and
yet but slightly shaking the stability of his
stable companion. '

VOL. III. G

One sporting article indeed spoke contemptuously
of him as a ' book horse,' — that
is to say, a horse whose name has been introduced
into the betting for mere gambling
purposes, and to serve bookmakers ; one
probably never even intended to take actual
part in the race. Merrily the game went
on, and yet even those taking part in it, and
having, as they thought, special knowledge
of their own concerning Damocles, were not
altogether at their ease about it. Mr Noel,
for instance, knows that his design has been
accomplished, insomuch as something has
happened to the horse which has had the
desired effect of shaking his status in the
market ; but then he does not know, nor
can Mr Napper succeed in discovering for
him, whether Damocles is seriously affected
or not. The boy who had been bribed to
draw the bolts of the window, had been
promptly removed from the charge of the
colt. Mr Stubber assigned no reason, but
gave him another horse to take care of.
Mr Skinner, on the other hand, knows perfectly
well that the horse is all right as far

as health is concerned, but he is further
aware that Mr Bramton has made up his
mind to part with him. In fact, both these
shrewd practitioners, Mr Noel and Mr
Skinner, feel by no means certain whether
those who back Damocles, or those who
lay against him for the big race, will find
they have burnt their fingers by the end
of May

AT Nightshade ONCE MORE.

Down the Mediterranean drives the Siivi-
aera, making so good a passage that even
at Malta they find no letters awaiting them,
and only a brief telegraphic message describing
the catastrophe that had befallen
them. Three or four lines describe how
Lord Dartree's horse seemed to get the
better of him in the Wroxeter Steeplechase,
and how, at a stiff fence, horse and man fell
never to rise again. Death must have been
instantaneous, as neither The Robber nor
his rider ever moved more. This telegram
is not from Knightshayes, but is in the
regular Reuter's tissue received at Malta.
It's but grim consolation,' said Alec

Flood ; ' still, such as it is, you have it.
Poor Dartree seems to have been spared
all suffering

Yes,' replied Jack ; ' not even in the
Soudan could he have found a speedier or
more painless death.'

Jack meditated upon a good many things
on his homeward journey. He was honestly
and most sincerely sorry for the loss of his
brother, but he naturally could not shut his
eyes to the difference that it made in his
own position. Before this, he had been
scrambling along as a captain of Lancers,
with an allowance of four or five hundred a
year besides his pay. Knightshayes was
never likely to be his, nor did he know very
much of the financial embarrassments of his
father — a needy man he knew he was, with a
faculty for spending money, only to be out-herded
by his eldest son. What those two
had done to make ducks and drakes of the
property, he did not know, but he had a dim
foreboding that it was awfully encumbered.
There was no mercenary feeling in all this ;
he was honestly fond of the place, and was

quite as much distressed about the possibility
of its going to the hammer, after the
manner of Temple Rising, when he was
only Jack Cuxwold, as he is now that he
is Lord Dartree, and its heir. But there is
one thing which is very different. Now, he
may be in a position possibly to avert it ;
at all events, he could claim to look into
things, and endeavour to assist the Earl to
stave off any such disaster as that.

On they drive through the dark blue
waters till the Rock looms rugged and
grim before them. ' They roll through the
Gut of Gibraltar,' past Cape St Vincent,
and then stand out across the boisterous
Bay. That angry piece of water happens
to be in good humour, and they run across
it with a fair wind on their quarter.

You say the Bramtons are very well
received in Barkshire ? ' said Jack, one
evening as he and Flood were pacing the
deck, enjoying a last cigar before they
turned in.

'Very,' replied Flood. 'He is a lite
queer in his language, as I told you, but

he is a wealthy, hospitable man, and his
daughters are very pretty, lady-like girls;
he is a shrewd, sharp, useful man too in all
matters of business, full of "go" and energy.
By the way, poor Dartree used to flirt rather
heavily with the eldest girl. Jim Anson
used always to chaff him, and tell him he
had better go in seriously for the business ;
that it was good goods ; that some of these
days the Miss Bramtons would come into
a pot of money between them.'

And then the thought shot simultaneously
through both men's minds, although neither
of them gave utterance to it. Jack could
not help the thought, if it would have been
a good thing for poor Dart to have married
one of those sisters, now I stand in his place,
it would be an equally good thing for me,
to say nothing of my being already half in
love with the Miss Bramton I met in Cairo.

Jack Cuxwold had no intention of marrying
for money, but he was pretty certain,
from what he knew of the Earl's affairs, he
most distinctly could not marry without it.
It behoved him to marry, in order that there

might be a continuity of the direct hone of
Cuxwolds, and that such marriage must be
accompanied by money, the exigencies of
the estate made compulsory.

As for Alec Flood, he knew that there
was no chance for himself. He had a strong
suspicion that Lucy was already half in love
with Jack Cuxwold, and with a rare abnegation
of self, he thought that if the dearest
friend he had and the one girl he had ever
cared about showed an inclination to come
together, he would sooner assist than thwart
them. Such self-sacrifice in love affairs is
not in accordance with human nature, but
it must be borne in mind that Alec Flood's
is no such heroic immolation all the same,
as he had already convinced himself that
his own chance was hopeless.

Then again,' said Flood, after a long
pause, * Barkshire is rather proud of having
the owner of the first favourite for the Derby
amongst her children ; and though, as poor
Dart used to say, " John Bramton doesn't
know a race-horse from a kangaroo," yet
still he is the owner of Damocles, and I

suppose the success of that horse will make
an immense difference to your father.'

Yes, I believe he stands to win something
colossal on it.'

Dartree told me himself that he had
backed it to win him twenty thousand
pounds, but the Earl has plunged much
more heavily than that,' continued Flood.

Well he stood very firm at the top of
the tree the last betting I saw,' said Jack
Cuxwold musingly.

He was thinking, perhaps a great coup
of this kind might redeem the broad lands
of Knightshayes.

The bay is crossed at last, and the Sumatra
steams up channel, passes the Isle of
Wight, rounds the South Foreland, and lays
her head steadily for the Thames. A little
more and Flood and Cuxwold have bestowed
themselves and their traps in the
Gravesend Railway, and are being whirled
away to London. At one of the stations
they temporarily paused at, a boy walks
down the train, exclaiming in a shrill
voice, —

Papers, papers ; here ye are, morning
papers.'

Give me a Telegraph cried Jack.

The boy handed him the journal, and
the train whirls on.

Jack opens his paper, and in another
few minutes exclaimed, — ' By Jove ! this
looks fishy for the governor's coitp'^ and, so
saying, he hands the paper across to Flood,
who, under the head of ' Latest betting at
Tattersall's,' reads the ominous words,
20 to I Damocles offered.'

They sped rapidly through town. The
ever-useful telegraph had given notice of
their coming, and the carriage was waiting
for them at the little station, about two
miles from Knightshayes, which the company
had made principally to propitiate the
Earl of Ranksborow. What a rush there
was, on the part of the women, to welcome
Jack. How they alternately kissed and
cried over him. It was not so long, remember,
that they had pictured him lying
in his bloody grave 'midst the desert sands,
and the Countess's tears might well trow as

she thanked God that one, at all events,
of her sons had been spared to her. For
weeks she had mourned for her youngest
boy, nor dared trust herself to hope, even
when told that, until positive intelligence
of his death reached them, she might do so.
Then no sooner was she assured of his
safety, than she went out to one of the
revels of the county, and carried home her
eldest born dead. Flood was right. The
second shock on the top of the first had
sorely stricken her, and Alec was grieved
to see how broken she looked to what she
had been when he had parted with her a
few weeks back. Still there was a flush on
her face to-night, and a light in her eyes,
that no one had seen since Jack's name had
figured in the list of ' missing.' Had she
not got her boy home again .^ And would
she not make him promise, before many
days were over, to go back to soldiering
and to Egypt no more.

That had been debated in the family
councils immediately after Dartree's death.
Jack had done his turn of hard fighting ;

there was a cessation of all operations in
the Soudan, if not for good, at all events
or the present ; and, as their only son,
it had been determined that Jack must at
once assume his position of heir-apparent.

Leaving Jack to talk with his mother and
sisters, Flood made his way to his own
room. It wanted a good hour to the
dinner-time yet, and, sitting down in an
arm-chair in front of the fire, he was thinking
sadly of how very pale and worn Lady
Ranksborow looked, when there was a tap
at the door, which was followed by the
entrance of the Earl.

I couldn't help coming up for a few
minutes to tell you, my dear Alec, how
very much we all feel indebted to you.
Staunch we knew you were, but how
tender and true, I don't think even we
guessed.'

You're making much of little. Jack
managed the whole thing himself ; and
all I did was to throw away two hundred
pounds in finding out where he was.'

Throw it away!' exclaimed Lord Ranks-brow.

' No two hundred pounds was
ever better laid out in this world than that.
If we hadn't received that first telegram of
yours, and so known that Jack was comparatively
safe, before Dartree's terrible
accident, I think the Countess would have
gone clean out of her mind. It was the
one thing that seemed to rouse her from
her stupor, the impressing upon her that if
her eldest son had been taken, the younger
had been restored to her.'

She looks dreadfully changed,' replied
Alec. * I knew, the minute I got Anson's
message, that it would be an awful shock
to her ; but we must hope that, now she
has got Jack here at home and before her
eyes again, she will begin to get over it.'

The Earl made no reply, but wrung Alec's
hand silently, and then left the room.

To say that they were a cheerful party that
night at Knightshayes would be incorrect.
The shadow of their great loss was still over
the house, but there was undoubtedly far
more conversation than had been heard
there since the night before the Wroxeter

ball. The young ladies were very curious
about their brother's adventures in the
Soudan, and questioned him incessantly.
And Jack really had a wondrous tale to
narrate. The Countess said little, but both
she and Lord Ranksborow listened with
breathless interest to Jack's story of the
desperate fighting down at Metammeh, —
to his account of that lonely desert ride, —
how he was utterly lost in that endless sea
of sand, and lay down at last to die under
the shadow of a rock, — how he was rescued
by the Halawin Arabs. And very humorous
was Jack in his description of the
Arabian Front de Boeuf. But when he
told the story of his match with Mohammed
Sebekh, which ended in his escape,
the Earl fairly laughed outright, and even
a faint smile flitted across the Countess's
face. More than once in the smoking-room
that evening did the Earl revert to
Jack's match with Mohammed Sebekh.

Of course, I don't know what weights
you rode, but I suppose you had a lot in
hand.'

Any amount,' said Jack. ^ As for
weights, I don't suppose there was very
much difference between us. He was as
near my height as may be, and I couldn't
have had more than a few pounds the worst
of it. With his handy Arab, he would have
got the best of me round the turning-post,
but, even if he had made a quarter of a mile
out of that, I should have caught him long
before he reached home.'

Ah ! I wish you could have ridden it
out,' remarked the Earl.

With five thousand depending upon my
beating the Halawins from there to Korti,
I couldn't afford any experiments,' rejoined
Jack, laughing. ' By the way, father, I'm
afraid there is something wrong with your
own prospects, isn't there .^ '

Yes,' replied the Earl. ' I stand to win
an immense stake on Damocles, and no one
can say his chance looks rosy now.'

What's the matter,' inquired his son
curtly. ' Influenza, hit his leg, or what.'*'

What has happened I can't exactly
arrive at,' replied Lord Ranksborow, 'and.

what is more, nobody seems able to explain.
A week ago, and I thought some
casualty had happened to him, but his
trainer assures me there is nothing wrote
with him. Skinner says the same, and
that he cannot understand the meaning
of all the hostility to him.'

What does his owner say about it ? '
inquired Jack.

I am unfortunately not on terms with
Mr Bramton at present, and therefore it is
impossible for me to ask him.'

Not on terms with the Bramtons ! ' exclaimed
Flood ; ' why, you where the best
of friends when I left ; what on earth has
happened ? '

I'll tell you the whole story,' returned
the Earl. ' I think it will explain to you
both what has happened to Damocles. It
seems that at the end of the Wroxeter ball
poor Dartree and two or three of his friends
got together in the supper-room, and had
another bottle or two of champagne. They
began chaffing him about his flirtation with
Miss Bramton, and Dartree — who, I fancy,

had drank a little more wine than was prudent
— repudiated the idea, said that he had
no serious intentions, but that Miss Dry-goods
"did very well to amuse himself
with." Unfortunately this was overheard
by the Miss Bramtons. That it made the
young ladies very angry, I need scarcely
say. It was a stupid observation, and in
very bad taste. They, I suppose, told their
father, and he was furious. He came to me
the next morning, and declared he would
have satisfaction for such an insult. I told
him that although the days for that sort of
thing were gone by, I could assure him that
Dartree would be perfectly willing to meet
him on that point. Blunder the first on my
part. Then he screamed that that wasn't
what he meant, — that he would make me
pay for it. Thinking he meant that he had
grounds to go on for a breach of promise
against Dartree, I said that was a matter
best left to our solicitors. Blunder the
second on my part,' said the Earl, whilst a
low laugh burst from Flood's mouth ; ' then,
frantic with passion, he let the cat out of

VOL. III. H

the bag, — said that he knew I stood to win
an enormous stake on Damocles, and that
the colt should not start for the Derby.
I presume he has told some of his friends
so, and that from them the information has
reached the Ring. What do you think,
Alec?'

It is a bad business,' replied Flood, ' and
it's not much use thinking over it anymore,
at all events to-night. John Brandon
is wonderfully fond and proud of his
daughters, and such an unlucky speech
as that would be difficult to gloss over.
Time to be off to bed, isn't it?' And
with that the trio shook hands and took
up their bedroom candlesticks.

TOM ROBBINS GROWS GARRULOUS.

The circumstance now attracting considerable
attention In the London betting world
Is the extraordinary duel about Damocles
waged between Messrs Noel and Skinner.
No sooner did the colt go very badly In the
betting market than Mr Skinner would come
in to the rescue and offer to back It so vigorously
that the layers drew In their horns.
But no sooner did Damocles take an upward
tendency In the market, than nobody seemed
so Inclined to lay against the colt as Mr
Skinner. The tactics of Noel and his confederates
seemed just the reverse of this.
It was their persistent betting against Damocles
that drove the colt back in the market,

and threatened to drive him to outside odds.
It was Mr Skinner's support that rescued
him from that fataHtyj and gave him once
more an upward tendency. Then Mr Noel
and his confederates tried to back the horse,
and were immediately confronted by Mr
Skinner, then, apparently, resolved to lay
freely. The result, of course, of this game
of see-saw was that neither party was doing
much in the way of business. Mr Noel
succeeded in his object, but, with all that,
thanks to the irrepressible Skinner, he could
neither back him nor lay against him satisfactorily.
No sooner had he got the horse
to the price he wanted, than Mr Skinner
stepped in, and began to appropriate the
long odds, while no sooner had the horse,
in consequence, ascended some points in the
betting, than Mr Skinner persistently laid
against him. Neither party could benefit
themselves much by these transactions, as
the sum they backed him to win one day
they laid against him the next. There was
an antipathy between the two men. Mr
Noel had more than once interfered with

Skinner's working of a commission, and the
latter worthy was now only paying him off
in his own coin. He knew of what had happened
at Newmarket, — how the window of
the box of Damocles had been designedly
opened. It was clear, to a practised hand
like himself, that Noel desired to back that
colt for the Derby. He did not exactly
know why, — he could not be quite sure
that Noel was connected with that open
window, which had driven Damocles from
his pride of place in the market in the
first instance, but back Damocles to any extent
Mr Skinner determined his antagonist
should not, and the result of all the fencing
between these past masters was that, in
spite of the horse being apparently driven
to an outside price, it was quite impossible,
at even half his nominal quotation, to back
him to any extent. Mr Noel was horribly
disgusted at the result of all his clever
manoeuvring. He cursed his adversary by
all the oaths in his vocabulary, and, when
thwarted, he was much gifted in powers of
malediction. As for Skinner, he simply

persistently blocked his antagonist's game,
saying to himself he must show his hand at
last. Stubber, In the meantime, goes about
with a face as long as If his pet charge had
met with the fate that the market Indicated.
It is no use the horse-watchers at Newmarket
reporting that Damocles is going
well and strong, the general public have
taken fright, and show no disposition to
accept any price about him ; Indeed, If it
was not for the support of Skinner, and a
few of his brethren, having much confidence
in the commissioner's shrewdness, Noel
would have the game entirely in his own
hands. But there Is another man who is
Infinitely surprised at the state of affairs. Mr
Bramton twelve months a^o would have
as soon thought of reading the 'sporting intelligence
' In the daily papers as studying
Milton or Shakespeare. Now he glances
at It pretty regularly, and is much puzzled
at the extraordinary fluctuation of Damocles
in the market. He certainly has written to
Stubber to say that he thinks he shall sell
the colt at the first favourable opportunity,

bat he deems, and very fairly, that the
trainer would not publish this intention to
the world. He has told Lord Ranksborow,
in his wrath, also pretty much the same
thing, but he still can't believe that such
confidences as these could affect the price
list of the turf. He did not comprehend how
in these days a racing man's intentions with
regard to his horses, even if whispered, are
flashed through the land. Still, in this case,
it was not so ; the downfall of Damocles was
due to the machinations of Noel, and his
inscrutable vacillations in the betting were
owino^ to the singular antagonism oroine on
between that gentleman and Skinner.

Before he had been at home a couple of
days, Jack Cuxwold had a long talk with
his father as to the actual condition of the
property, and found his worst anticipations
realised. The Earl told him frankly that
the encumbrances were such that, unless a
large sum was raised to meet them, foreclosure
on the bulk of the mortgages on the
estate would become pretty well a certainty
in the autumn. ' Dartle and I,' he continued,

' had a honor talk over it, and had
finally settled that unless something turned
up to save us, we must cut the entail, and
sell quite half the estate. It would probably
enable us to save Knightshayes and
all the land immediately surrounding. It
is a terrible thing, Jack, to think that
you should eventually succeed to such a
shrunken kingdom, but your grandfather
dipped it a bit, I a good deal more, and
poor Dart didn't mend matters ; however,
it's no good crying over spilt milk.'

In this the noble Earl was most assuredly
right, more especially when the milk has
been spilt at somebody else's expense.

Then Jack took counsel with Flood, and
talked matters over with him.

It's worse even than I thought. Alec.
There's not only all the encumbrances on
the property, but Dartree has left a stiffish
crop of debts, which have got to be paid
somehow. It grieves me bitterly to think
of the old place going out of the family.
Even if we succeed in saving Knightshayes,
the lands left to us will be very limited.'

It's a thousand pities your father has
quarrelled with John Bramton.'

Yes,' replied Jack ; ' next month might
have put things straight for us ; but I suppose
there's no chance of that breach being
healed ? '

I am afraid not. Bramton is a man
who can stand a good-humoured laugh at
his own peculiarities. But Dartree, you see,
hit him upon his most sensitive point — his
daughters. He is extremely proud of those
two girls, and he has a right to be. To
ridicule them would be to incur all his
enmity ; and I don't know but Bramton
gives me the idea of a man who could be
pretty relentless in his wrath.

Ah, well ! I suppose it's no use thinking
anything more about it. Those things
very rarely come off, when there's nothing
else can save you. Otherwise, looking over
the returns of last year's racing, as I was
doing this morning in the governor's den,
it does look as if, fit and well, nothing could
beat Damocles at Epsom.'

I'm not much of a judge,' rejoined

Flood, ' but he certainly won last year at
Newmarket very easily.'

Poor Dart ! He was always the same.
Chaff with him always turned into sarcasm.'


The conversation here dropped ; and
although Alec Flood turned the whole
business anxiously over in his brain, he
could not see how such a quarrel as this
was to be healed. That there is no worse
man to have connection with in business
or other designs than a coward with a
weakness for the wine-cup, the great Mr
Noel was shortly destined to discover. A
pretty good judge of human nature, he
made very little mistake about choosing
his own instruments, but he could not
occasionally depend upon his subordinates
acting with equal discretion. His nephew,
Mr Napper, for instance, was a man he
could thoroughly trust — keen, sharp, and
unscrupulous, and one who, in a witness-box,
would defy cross-examination, with
eyes and ears ever on the alert. Mr Noel
could hardly have selected any one more

suited to keep him informed of what was
doing at Newmarket than his nephew ; but
if, later on, it should prove necessary to
frighten Mr Bramton into starting Damocles,
then Tom Robbins would have to be
put forward as prepared to claim Richard
Bramton's property, because the conditions
of the will had not been complied with.
Mr Napper had already expressed his
opinion that there was no real case, and
that there was no chance of success unless
Mr Bramton was a weak-minded, nervous
man. Unfortunately, Mr Napper thought
it expedient to point out to John Robbins
that if this rumour that Damocles was not
going to start should prove true, it would
be worth his (Robbins) while to threaten
Mr Bramton with an action at law for the
recovery of the property.

Not a bit of use your going into Court,
you know, Tom ; but it's just possible you
might wring a bit of money out of him byway
of compromise.'

Mr Napper had thought it expedient to
prepare Tom Robbins for the part he might

have to play. He ought to have known
better ; he might have known that a vainglorious
braggart like Robbins would be certain
to let the cat out of the bag the first
time his tongue was loosed by drink, and
that was not likely to be very long in happening.
Sure enough, a few days afterwards,
Mr Robbins, after his third tumbler
of ' hot Scotch,' might have been heard
holding forth in the bar-parlour of a very
second-rate hostelry at Newmarket : —

Damocles, I tell you,' he says. ' Don't
you believe in anything else ; there's nothing
the matter with Damocles ; he'll
start, and win the Derby right enough,
you take my word for it. It isn't what old
Bramton likes — he's got to do it, mind you.
He ! pooh ! he's only the nominal owner
of those horses. There's a deal cleverer
chaps than him pulling the strings.'

Who are they, Tom .^ Tell us ! ' exclaimed
one of his convives.

No, no, my beauty,' rejoined Tom, with
drunken gravity ; ' you don't draw me.
There's secrets in all stables. It wouldn't

astonish you to know who was the real owner
of Damocles. Oh no, not at all ; you'd never
guess it, so don't try. But mind what I tell
you, you back Damocles, and nothing else,'
and with a wink of preternatural solemnity,
Tom Robbins reeled out into the night air.

A rumour of this sort soon gathers
strength, and though his hearers, in the
first instance, regarded it as merely the idle
vapourings of a drunken man, yet they
mentioned it to various acquaintances,
and so the rumour got about, while the
source from which it emanated became lost
sight of. It wasn't long before it reached
the ears of Mr Stubber, and the trainer's
surprise and disbelief was unbounded.

Rubbish ! ' he said. ' It has never been
questioned before, and there is nothing unlikely
in Dick Bramton leaving all his property
and horses to this brother. If an)
body had had a right to pull the strings, I
should have heard of it last year. Mr John
Bramton don't know anything about racine,
and he left it to me to run the horses when
and where I thought best. If anybody had

had a right to interfere, they would have
done it. I haven't been a trainer for close
upon thirty years without knowing that.'

Very troubled, indeed, was Mr Stubber
about his charges at this time. He had two
rattling good three-year-olds, doing just as
well as the most exacting trainer could wish.
Damocles had proved himself the best two-year-old
of his year, and Stubber knew that
Lucifer was but a very few pounds behind
his stable companion. Here was such a
chance to sweep the board of all the great
three-year-old prizes as seldom falls to the
lot of man. And here was Mr John Brandon
who apparently regarded the winning of
the Derby as a matter of no consequence.
Stubber had trained for many varieties of
racing men, but only once in his experience
had he had an employer who had dreamt of
foregoing that glory. And to this day the
trainer spoke of that man with loathing. It
was the one time in Stubber's career that he
had held the key of the situation, the king
card, and a colt who indubitably could
have won the Blue Ribbon had been in his

stables. And then the cynical, money-loving
owner had said, ' Damn the Derby,
Stubber. I shall win ever so much more if
I keep him for the Cambridgeshire.' And
he did. To this hour, the Ring remembered
Mr Stubber's outsider for that big handicap,
who had won with heaven knows how much
in hand, and nearly broke them. So bewildered
is the trainer at the present time,
that his sole reliance is placed upon Skinner.
The trusty commissioner has not
been down to Newmarket since, and has
written to say that he is quite certain that
the attempt to meddle with Damocles was
due to the instigation of Mr Noel.

'Whatever was intended,' he wrote, 'it
is evident from what you say, that they did
no more than open the window ; and how
Mr Noel meant to profit by it, I, of course,
can't be sure at present. I should say he
simply seems desirous of backing Damocles
a thing that, thanks to me, he finds at
present difficult to accomplish to any extent.'

It is needless to say that in his perplexity
Mr Stubber speedily made the commissioner

acquainted with the rumour that was now
current at Newmarket. Skinner was a
man who, in business, never pooh-poohed
rumours. He at once set to work to test
them to the extent of his ability, and after
'a few minutes' cogitation, he came to the
same conclusion as Mr Napper, that it
would be worth while to spend a shilling at
Somerset House for the purpose of reading
Richard Bramton's will. If the horses had
not been left to John Bramton, it would be
clearly stated in that document to whom
they had been bequeathed. When the commissioner
had perused Richard Bramton's
last testament, although not a little surprised,
he did not see that it made much difference in
the situation. That they were Miss Lucy's
horses, instead of her father's, was small
matter. And though Richard Bramton apparently
desired they should be run through
their engagements, it did not strike him as
at all obligatory. However, he should be
down at Newmarket in a few days, in the
regular course of business, and then he would
have a talk with Stubber over the affair.

SEMI-BOYCOTTING OF BRAMTON.

Mr Bramton is very much disgusted with
the turn things have taken. He could
not have believed that the neighbourhood
would have taken the part of Lord Ranks-brow
so promptly and so generally in
their quarrel. He did not quote Burns,
and exclaim,

Do you see yon birkie cared a lord ! '
for the best of all possible reasons — he had
never read Burns, but he raged against the
aristocracy generally, and was filled with
the feeling that

A man's a man for a' that.'
It was monstrous, it was outrageous. Was
a man, by virtue of his birth, privileged to

VOL. III. I

%b

insult his fellow, and because that other,
prompted by the passions common to
humanity, resented it, were all the community
to take part against him ? Yet
John Bramton could not disguise from himself
that the genial greetings of a week
or two back had been in more cases than
one exchanged for a chilly salute. Nobody
inquired now after the health of Damocles,
and John Bramton, who was shrewd enough,
was by no means blind to the fact that his
world looked askance upon him.

On one point, however, he was much
mistaken. That he was being looked coldly
upon in that sporting county was undoubtedly
true, but he was all wrong about
the cause. Men were not treating him
coolly on account of his quarrel with Lord
Ranksborow, for truth to tell that was a
thing unknown. Here and there it might
be barely suspected, but this had nothing
to do with the indignation of the people of
Barkshire. No, Damocles was the reason.
Barkshire had been excessively proud of
claiming the owner of the first favourite for

the Derby — the best horse of his year, as
they all vowed — as one of themselves. Most
of them had got a modest bet upon the race.
Then came the revulsion in the betting
market, and it was rumoured that he had
broken down. Then came the sinister
report that that was all moonshine — the
horse was as well as ever he had been in
his life ; that the real cause of his retrogression
in the betting was that his owner
had made up his mind to sell him. On the
first blush West Barkshire declined to
believe it. Communication between the
metropolis and the country in these days
is both rapid and regular. Before the week
was out, the turpitude of the master of
Temple Rising was confirmed, and then
contemptuous indignation took the place of
sneaking admiration ; and the belief that
John Bramton was at heart a sportsman,
was scattered to the winds. He is in the
like position of the man who, as tradition
tells us, set up as a squire in a hunting
county, and inaugurated his reign by shooting
a fox ! West Barkshire regarded John

Bramton's conduct in a somewhat similar
light.

In his resentment, Bramton utterly forgot
the Earl's warning that this would probably
occur, if he disposed of Damocles
injudiciously. His sole feeling now, as
Lucy's, was to get rid of the horses as soon
as they possibly could. He had broken off
all negotiations with Mr Noel and that little
syndicate of bookmakers of which he was
the head, but he had written again to a
wealthy young man who had only made his
appearance on the turf a year or two previously,
to tell him that if he chose to renew
the offer made some five months ago for
Damocles, he, Mr Bramton, was disposed
to deal, and to that letter John Bramton
had as yet received no reply. The reason
was simple. Mr Verreker, the gentleman
in question, had been wintering in Algeria,
and had not as yet returned. This, however,
Bramton was not aware of, and that
he received no answer to his letter troubled
him not a little. Still, such was his ignorance
of the ways of the turf, that he had

actually supposed that Mr Verreker, providing
he was given a handsome offset in
reduction of price, would submit to the condition
that Damocles should not start for
the Derby. John Bramton was utterly incapable
of entering into a sportsman's ambitions.
To him, racing seemed simply a
matter of money, but that Mr Neckerchief
object in bidding a long price for the
horse was for the express purpose of winning
that great prize of the turf in the eyes
of all racing men, and which many of them,
after a lifetime spent in the pastime, never
succeed in carrying off, was a thing beyond
John Bramton's comprehension. There is
no certainty in anything, more especially in
racing, and if there was a certain pecuniary
solatiiuii allowed as a set-off against the
possibility of winning the Derby stakes,
he could not conceive Mr Verreker having
any objection to the condition that
Damocles should not start.

John Bramton, though a good-natured
man, was an obstinate one ; he moreover
particularly plumed himself in being a man

of his word, which meant, that, having once
said a thing, he doggedly adhered to it. He
had told Lord Ranksborow that Damocles
should not start for the Derby, and he was
determined to keep his word.

Mr Bramton wondered at times whether
the neighbours knew the real truth about
his quarrel with the Ranksborow family,
whether they had got hold of some garbled
story concerning it, or whether they really
were aware of the shameful way in which
the late Lord Dartree had spoken in the
supper-room at Wroxeter. If they were
really aware of the true state of the case,
then he could only say they were a parcel of
chicken-hearted minions — very pleased with
this phrase was Mr Bramton — a memory
of a bygone Surrey melodrama — bending
before the great aristocrat of their neighbourhood,
and after his second glass of port
wine Mr Bramton vowed that he was made
of sterner stuff, and would have satisfaction
in some shape for such an outrage as that
from any took in the peerage, let alone an
said!' Then Mr Bramton would exceed to

the extent of another glass or so of port,
and finally fall asleep In the drawing-room,
in a most defiant frame of mind with regard
to the House of Lords, the Royal Family,
and all the powers that be. The goodman's
worries, too, increased day by day.
It was becoming an open question whether
he would be able to dispose of the colt
before the end of May, and under those
circumstances the odium of Damocles not
running at Epsom must fall upon him.
Lord Ranksborow's prophecy now recurred
to him, and he could not but see that Mr
Verreker or anybody else might well hesitate
about bidding for a colt with such a
distasteful condition attached to its purchase.
Mr Stubber also, he could see, was
extremely disgusted at the idea of his charge
not being started at Epsom, and yet it never
occurred to John Bramton to change his resolution,
any more than it did that the
extreme coolness with which he was now
treated by his neighbours, was the result of
his sportsman-like turpitude. With the
ladies, it was, of course, very dilTcrent.

Such a breach of turf etiquette would not
affect them, nor, in the main, could they be
brought to understand it. Women, as a
rule, don't understand much about racing.
They enjoy it in the summer as a pleasant
outing, and, when present, are delighted if
the gay jacket which carries their fortunes
proves successful ; but, of course, there are
exceptions to this, and the Ladies Cuxwold
were amongst them. Lady Jane and Lady
Emily were very angry indeed upon hearing
of John Bramton's intentions regarding
Damocles. They knew that their father
stood to win a very large stake upon that
horse, that there had been a quarrel between
him and Mr Bramton on the morning after
the Wroxeter ball, and that the latter in his
anger had declared his colt should not run
at Epsom. Of the particulars of the quarrel
they were utterly ignorant. The Earl had
told the whole story to his wife, and they
had decided the affair had better be kept
to themselves. Jack's arrival had so far
changed this, in so much as he and Flood
were now also acquainted with the real state

of the case, and Jack had already decided
that any approach to the Bramtons on his
part was impossible, whilst Flood felt not
only would interference on his part be excessively
awkward, but, in all probability,
useless. Had things been as they were
when he had left for Cairo, it would have
been pleasant to canter over to Temple
Rising and announce that he had brought
the lost sheep home again, to have recounted
the story of Jack's escape from
the Halawins, and to tell Lucy that for
the account of this nineteenth century
Front de Boeuf, and the habits of the
Bavaria Arabs, she must consult Captain
Cuxwold himself

There was one person, however, who, although
he had no knowledge of what gave
rise to it, had penetrated the fact that there
had been a bitter quarrel between John
Bramton and the Knightshayes people, and
that was Sir Kenneth Sandiman. He was
a pretty constant visitor at Temple Rising,
and had perhaps been more than ever so
since the death of Lord Dartree. John

Bramton rather clung to him, as the one
man to whom this quarrel appeared to have
made no difference. It was not likely to do
so, any more than the striking of Damocles
out of the Derby. Sir Kenneth was a man
keenly alive to his own interests, and not
likely to let either whims or fantasies stand
between him and them. Further, he had
taken a great dislike to Lord Ranksborovv.
One of Sir Kenneth's weaknesses was an
exaggerated idea of his own importance,
and that was a point which he considered
had never been sufficiently recognised by
the Knightshayes people. He frequently
came into West Barkshire, taking rooms
at Wroxeter, and doing a lite mild hunting
from thence. He had many acquaintances
in the county, and, of course, knew the
Ranksborows ; but that family did not take
to him, and he had never been asked to
Knightshayes. He said nothing about this,
but in his heart he bitterly resented it.
That Mr Bramton should speak in angry
terms of the Earl at times was only natural,
and as Sir Kenneth chimed in, and expressed

his opinion that Lord Ranksborow
was an arrogant beast, it was no wonder that
Mr Bramton still further unbosomed himself
and made no secret about there being
fierce enmity between him and the Earl.

Sir Kenneth, too, had cordially detested
the late Lord Dartree ; he had once or
twice winced under the dead man's sarcasms.
Sir Kenneth was a grand man
across country, over the dinner-table, butin
the actual field he never took his place
among the straight goers. Now there is
no reason a man should not enjoy hunting
in his own way, only, when he devotes himself
to the coffee-house phase of it, don't
let him claim to be one of the hard-riding
brigade. Dartree and his companions had
been rather wont to make fun of Sir Kenneth's
pretensions in this respect. Further,
had he not rivalled him in seeking to win
the regard of Miss Bramton ? Taking all
these things into consideration, and bearing
in mind that Sir Kenneth, though of a
phlegmatic was of a somewhat vindictive
disposition, and it is easy to see that he

would entertain the most sincere dislike to
the house of Ranksborow.

The death of Lord Dartree had cleared
the way for Sir Kenneth. He prosecuted
his suit to Miss Bramton vigorously, and
after the rude shock her vanity had lately
sustained, it was soothing and gratifying to
the fair Matilda to find that she had an eligible
admirer who was thoroughly in earnest ;
and, only for the vision of a coronet that
had so lately dazzled her eyes, Miss Brandon
would have been fain to admit from the
first that Sir Kenneth was a very eligible
parti. Love, as her father might have said,
was no item in Miss Bramton's scheme of
matrimony. She was much too worldly and
sensible a young woman to trouble her head
about any such sentimental nonsense. She
had made up her mind to settle herself, as
soon as opportunity presented itself, and
had made up her mind that what she emphatically
required was a gentleman of good
social position. Sir Kenneth thoroughly
fulfilled these requirements, and now that
the glamour of the more lofty position was

removed, she had quite decided to say yes
whenever he should ask the question. Sir
Kenneth was a prudent man. He had
quite made up his mind to marry Miss
Bramton, and he came to the conclusion
that the sooner he formally proposed for
her hand the better. A little later, and the
Bramtons would very likely be going to
town, and then Sir Kenneth thought there
might be other candidates in the field.
No, a handsome girl like Miss Bramton,
with the very handsome expectations that
were attached to her, was, if she got properly
introduced, not likely to be without
aspirants for her hand. Lord Dartree had
occasioned him dire misgivings ; he would
not risk that sort of thine ao-ain. No, he
had things all his own way just at present,
he would clench matters at once ; and he
did. A couple of days after Jack Cuckold's
return, and the news came to
Knightshayes that Miss Bramton was engaged
to be married to Sir Kenneth
Sandiman.

MR NAPPER's little COMEDY.

Mr Skinner has come down to Newmarket,
and is speedily in possession of the
just now popular rumour, in that place of
many rumours. Mr Stubber was perfectly
right, it is currently reported that all Mr
Bramton's horses are only nominally his,
that the real owner has been kept perfectly
dark, and that Mr Bramton is a mere
puppet in his hands.

'Quite right, Stubber,' observed the commissioner.
' They've got it all over the
town, and, though they don't exactly know
what they're talking about, for a wonder
this time there's a suspicion of truth in
their story. I can tell you now, Stubber,

why Mr Bramton didn't sell Lucifer. The
fact is, it is open to question whether he
can, just as it is equally open to question
whether he can sell Damocles.'

Well, this beats me altogether,' rejoined
the trainer, looking at the commissioner
with undisguised admiration ; 'how on earth
did you work out the whole business } '

Never mind,' replied Mr Skinner loftily.
Like other great men, he had no idea of
underrating his faculties, and of confiding
to Mr Stubber that on the payment of one
shilling at Somerset House he might test
the accuracy of his. Skinner's, information.
Now,' continued the commissioner, 'having,
as I say, worked out the first part of
the problem, the question is to get at the
second. What I want to ascertain now is
who set this rumour afloat at Newmarket,
and, secondly, what his object was in doing
so ? I have made several inquiries
since I've been down here, but though
everybody is full of the story, nobody
knows who originated it, whether it's true
or false.'

Well,' said the trainer, ' it's not very
likely any of my people know where the
story sprang from, but there ain't any harm
in asking my head lad.'

But, contrary to Stubber's expectation,
the head lad, upon being spoken to, speedily
returned, after making due inquiries, and
said, —

Lord, sir, all the boys seem to know
about it. It seems that drunken fool Tom
Robbins has been passing about ; he has
been swelling away like a bull frog with
this important secret, and when he's two
or three sheets in the wind, which I fancy
is pretty nearly every night, he tells all
his cronies to back Damocles, — that Mr
Bramton's got nothing to do with it,
but it will be all right on the day.'

And who is Tom Robbins ? ' inquired
Mr Skinner sententiously.

Well,' replied the trainer, laughing, 'that
would be a little difficult to say, supposing
you mean what is his pedigree. ]\Iost of
us old hands here know who his mother
was, but who was his father is somewhat

doubtful ; anyhow, he got a good send-off
here — a start in a solicitor's office — but
was too irregular in his habits to keep his
place. When his mother died, he came
into a small bit of money, though how she
got it nobody knows. Backing horses on
the Heath, and brandy and water at the
bars, I should think has got through most
of that. What he does now I cannot say
exactly, but I fancy he's a horse-watcher.'

The thing begins to clear itself up a
little, Stubber. A drunken tout in possession
of the information I hold, would be
quite sufficient to set such a rumour going.'
But he thought to himself, ' How the
deuce does a man like Tom Robbins gain
his information. It is very unlikely that
he would pay his shilling and go to Somerset
House. Stop, I have it ! Though the
idea would never have occurred to Tom
Robbins, it's quite possible it might to
Noel. Then, again, what did that open
window mean ? If Noel was at the bottom
of that, his intention would surely have
been to prevent Damocles running for the

VOL. III. K

Derby. My Impression Is that something
prejudicial to the health of Damocles was
intended to have been thrown through that
window — a drugged apple, or something of
that sort. For some reason, however, it
didn't come off, I suppose, as the horse has
been neither sick nor sorry. No, I don't
see it as yet. Pieces In the game, though,
are no doubt Noel and Robbins, but how
to connect them I don't see. Well ! we
must await the next move in the game.
This report has not been set going In
Newmarket for nothing.'

Mr Skinner had not long to wait for
that, for the evening papers apprised him,
under the head of sporting Intelligence,
that there had been a tremendous run on
Damocles for the big race at Epsom, that
he had been backed for all the money that
could be secured, from 20 to i down to 10,
and that his supporters would have gone
on at that if the fielders had not cried
Hold, enough,' declining in many cases to
offer more than 8 to i, and In others refusing
to bet against the colt at all.' The

commissioner began to see Noel's game
a little more clearly now. It was quite
evident that, from being an opponent of the
horse, he had changed sides, and was now
one of its strongest supporters. Still, if he
had anything to do with the setting afloat
of this rumour, what could be his object in
doing so ? It was true the horses were not
absolutely the property of Mr Bramton,
but they undoubtedly belonged to his
daughter, and she was not likely to interfere
with her father's control over them.
Mr Bramton had informed Stubber that he
should sell the horse, if possible, before his
Epsom engagement, but that, in any case,
it would not start for that race. Certainly
Mr Noel did not know this, but that it
was currently rumoured in turf circles that
Damocles would not run for the Derby, he
did know. What could have induced such
a wary speculator to change sides just
when it looked as if the opponents of
Damocles were croire to have so much the
best of it '^. However, the commissioner
could make nothing of this, and as it only

wanted a few days to the First Spring
meeting, Mr Skinner determined to stay
on where he was.

That allusion should be made in the
sporting papers about the absurd report of
Mr Bramton's horses not being Mr Bramton's
property, was matter of course, and
excited considerable surprise to Lord
Ranksborow when he read it. Then came
the extraordinary recovery of Damocles in
the betting market, and once more hope
was rekindled in the bosom of that sanguine
peer. He wrote off at once to
Skinner, to inquire concerning these things,
and his face fell when that gentleman's reply
reached him. Mr Skinner told him
what he had discovered, and said that, sofar,
the report was true ; that the people
who had backed the colt so heavily, were
those who so far had been his bitterest
opponents, but that upon what grounds
they were doing so, he was at a loss to
conjecture.

In conclusion, he remarked that the
horse was extremely well, and he thought

would probably win at Epsom if only
allowed to compete.

Cold comfort this,' muttered the Earl.
The colt, it seems, is the property of one
of the insulted ladies, instead of her father.
No, I don't think I could look for much
mercy at a woman's hands, under the
circumstances. One don't expect forgiveness
from a scorned woman.' And then
the Earl once more abandoned the idea of
having the knot of his difficulties cut in
this wise.

At Temple Rising they took at present
but very little notice of the racing intelligence
and fluctuations of the betting
market. But Mr Bramton's attention was
suddenly recalled to turf matters by the
receipt of the following letter : —

'Sir, — It being currently reported that
it is your intention to strike Damocles out
of the Derby, I beg leave to call your
attention to a clause in the late Richard
Bramton's will, which makes your running
his horses through their endearments a

condition of Miss Lucy Bramton's engagements.
As his nearest of kin, I need
hardly say that I have been shamefully
treated in not being even mentioned in it.
On the strength of that will, I have backed
Damocles for the Derby, and can only
assure you that if I lose my money in
consequences of his not running, I shall
see what compensation a law court will
award me. If the condition of inheritance
is not carried out, then I am advised that
Richard Bramton's will can be set aside,
and that, as next-of-kin, I inherit his horses,
and estate. — I am, sir, faithfully yours,
Thomas Robbins.'

7 Skelton Villas, Newmarket.'

Mr Bramton was not at all the man to
be frightened by a letter of this sort, but it
did recall to him what he had almost forgotten,
namely, that the horses were his
daughter's, and not his. He read the letter
over twice, and then said to himself, —

Kin. I never heard that Dick left kith
or kin behind him, except ourselves. No,'

he continued, ' this is a " try on," that's
what it is. If this chap had anything to go
upon, he would have waited till the Derby
was over, and then set his lawyers to work.
No, Robbins has backed my horse for the
Derby, and thinks he is going to bounce
me into starting it, whether I like it or no.
I'm sorry for Robbins, but Damocles don't
run. I haven't been all these years in
business, to be bamboozled by a bogus
letter like that. I shall simply take no
notice of it,' and so saying, Mr Bramton
tore up the epistle and threw the fragments
into the waste-paper basket.

Tom Robbins had written under the
dictation of Mr Napper, who had been told
by his uncle to begin to put such machinery
as he could manufacture out of Richard
Bramton's will in motion at once, as in the
course of the next month it might be necessary
to exercise all the pressure they could
command to induce Mr Bramton to start
Damocles at Epsom. Tom Robbins' letter
was a mere pilot balloon, — a mere throwing
up of straws to see how the wind blew.

Unless he is one of the regular weak-need
sort, he'll take no notice of this,
Tom. If he does, it is a nice little sum into
your pocket, depend upon it, whatever turns
up ; but whatever he may do about this,
when I write the next letter, as your solicitor,
I shall draw him. At all events, there is a
good chance of making something out of it,
one way or the other.'

And so poor silly Tom Robbins, who was
as mere dough in the hands of his cunning
and unscrupulous confederate, stopped
nightly about the bars at Newmarket, babbling
of what he could tell if he chose,
and wrapped in the pleasant conviction
that there would be a thousand or so offered
him eventually to withdraw his claim on
Richard Bramton's estate.

One of the great features of that First
Spring meeting at Newmarket, was the
furore for Damocles. The horse was seen
striding along in his gallops every morning
in splendid style, and, despite that old
rumour of a few weeks ago that he would
not start, the cleverest men on the turf were

backing him for his Epsom engagement, ay,
and backing him heavily too. Five to one
against Damocles for the Derby was a thing
difficult to obtain now, and undoubtedly
not to be got in any large sum.

With the resuscitation of Damocles there
comes a change over the neighbourhood in
their conduct to John Bramton. Once
again they became more genial in their
'good days,' and once more came such
cheery comments as ' Glad to see the colt's
going again like great guns, Mr Bramton,
or ' The Derby's coming to West Barkshire
after all, sir ; ' but the owner of Temple
Rising is sore at heart, and bitterly resents
the part he deems the county have taken
against him in his quarrel with Lord Ranks-brow.
He does not openly avow his
intention of not starting the horse for the
race, but he is more determined than ever
not to do so, — kept up to his resolve, too,
by that implacable son-in-law of his that is
to be, who cannot forgive the Ranksborows
for not welcoming him with the warmth
he conceives due to a man in his position.

Angry, passionately angry, as Miss Bramton
had been at the time, her animosity would
have been buried in Lord Dartree's grave,
had it not been for \i(tx fiancd. No sooner
was he engaged to her, than he easily extracted
from her, if not the exact story, a
version near enough to serve his turn. He
burned to pay off some of the slights he
considered he had received from the house
of Ranksborow, and he took very good care
that the wound Matilda s pride had suffered
should not be allowed to heal. It is ever
easy to remind any one of their wrongs, but .
to keep a woman alive to a cruel blow to
her vanity, is perhaps the easiest form of
this most unpleasant mode of condolence.
With a view to gratifying his own dislike to
the Knightshayes people, Sir Kenneth took
very good care that Matilda Bramton should
not forget the night of the Wroxeter ball.
He remembered bitterly how very much the
best of their struggle for the young lady's
favour the dead man had had that night.
He knew something of the embarrassments
of Lord Ranksborow, and vowed that no

help should come to him in his necessity
which it lay within his power to prevent.
Not a forgiving man Sir Kenneth, — one of
those fine old Scotch families not given tolet
the century close in on their wrath, but
willing to prosecute a blood feud or a lawsuit
as long as they have a life to lose, ora
bawbee to spend.

Loyally as Lucy meant to stand to her
sister, and heartily sick as she was of owning
racehorses which seemed to produce
nothing but quarrels and estrangements
from her dearest friends, still the fires of her
wrath were burning much fainter than they
had done in the beginning. In her eyes,
the terrible fate which had so speedily befallen
the culprit, had done away with much
of his offending. She knew, as they all did,
what the victory of this horse meant to the
Earl, and she could but recall the friendly
terms she had been on with the Knight-shades
people, and especially how kind and
thoughtful Captain Cuxwold had been in
the days of her sore trouble. The insult
had been more directly levelled at her sister

than herself, yet, for all that, Lucy had no
idea of not exacting quite as severe reparation
for it as if it had been directly personal.
She did very much wish to see Mr Flood.
Captain Cuxwold, of course, she was not
likely to meet again, except as a mere
stranger, but Mr Flood was different. Of
course, he might include himself in their
quarrel with the Ranksborows, but he need
not necessarily do so. It depended upon
himself what line he chose to take. Whether
it was in consequence of their quarrel with
Knightshayes, she could not say, but it certainly
did seem that the visitors at Temple
Rising were not so numerous as they had
been a short time back. She had thought
her sister's engagement would have produced
a great many visits of congratulation.
It had brought about a good many, but fewer
than she had expected. The truth was,
though well known. Sir Kenneth was by
no means a popular man in West Bark-shire,
and people felt somewhat indifferent
to his having a prosperous future before
him, in consequence.

BRAMTON NOT TO BE DRIVEN.

Now, my lad,' said Mr Noel, as he and his
precious nephew sat smoking in the little
sitting-room which appertained to the domicile
in which the book maker was accustomed
to take up his quarters for the Newmarket
meetings, ' you are a better judge of the
inclemency of the climate here than I am.
Lucky for me I've had a good week, for
I've got to fork out that five hundred to you.
Now just you pay attention to what I'm
saying to you. That cold was very well
managed, and there is no mistake about
my game now. I'm going for Damocles.
You see, it was Lord Dartree took my
yearling book about him, and, of course.

his death scratched that bet. I've backed
him for a lot of money this week, and shall
make a much better thing of his winning
than losing. It was troublesome work too.
That beggar Skinner got in my way at first :
he often does. He hates me, and I — I
don't feel heavenly towards him ; however,
it's all right now, and I don't think Mr
Bramton would have the cheek to withdraw
the colt at this time of day ; still, perhaps,
there would be no harm in putting
the screw on a little.'

Mr Napper's eyes twinkled with greed of
gain as he clasped the crisp roll of notes in
his hand.

It might be as well,' he said at last, ' to
hire another shot. He has taken no notice
of the first letter, but that is nothing. A
legal notice that proceedings will be taken
against his daughter, under the provisions
of Richard Bramton's will, should the colt
not start for the Derby, might determine
him ; but I should think there is no doubt
about it, is there ? He is sure to run, isn't
he?'

I hope so, and I think so,' replied Noel.
But I can't forget that I heard from very
good authority, — from a man who is always
well up in the ins and outs of Stubber's
stable, that the colt wouldn't start. Now
it was the day before that window was found
open, so that could have nothing to say toit.
He could give me no reason, but said
shortly I might take the hint or leave it
alone, but that I had known him long enough
to be aware that he was not speaking at
random.'

It's odd,' said Napper. ' There was a
deal of betting this week Who were the
principal backers of Damocles ? '

Myself and immediate friends,' replied
Mr Noel ; ' there was also a small section
of the Tracing public. But the public that
go racing never take kindly to a horse that
has been much knocked about in the betting
; and then, of course, a great many of
them were sweet upon Choleric Diu, the
winner of the Two Thousand.'

Perhaps it would be as well to fire another
shot,' said Mr Napper. ' It's only a

sheet of paper, though, looked at in a business
way, it ought to be six-and-eightpence.
As I have told you, we couldn't really take
any legal proceedings ; we haven't a leg to
stand upon

Legal proceedings be d — d,' interrupted
Mr Noel roughly. ' If you had the best
case that ever went into a law court, what
good would that be to me ? Why it wouldn't
even begin for a month, and the race would
be all over by that time. No, what you
said yourself at first, bounce Bramton into
running his colt, by hinting that his girl will
lose all the property if he don't. That's
what you've got to do. People are rather
shy of meddling with the law, as far as my
experience goes.'

All right,' rejoined Mr Napper, who was
far too politic to quarrel with his wealthy
relative. ' I'll see to it at once ; ' and, according
to this arrangement, the next day Mr
Napper indited a letter which began : — ' I
am instructed to take proceedings,' and
embodied the substance of Tom Robbins'
epistle in legal formula.

It perhaps did not make much difference,
but Messrs Noel and Napper were wrong
in one particular. However well you may-know
human nature, its infinite variety
constantly upsets the man of the world's
calculations. Messrs Noel and Napper are
right. The threat of legal proceedings exercises
a great terror upon weak and nervous
persons ; but there are other men born with
a naturally combative and litigious temperament,
— men who are always spoiling for a
fight, and held in the greatest esteem and
reverence by the lawyers. Now, John
Bramton was exactly one of these men.
To threaten him with the law was equivalent
to putting a pistol to his head. As you
made your demand, he was a man who
would certainly have rejected any advice to
compromise, and who would have contested
a very indifferent case, sooner than give
in. It was not likely that he was going to
knuckle under, to commence with, before
such a feeble attack as his common sense
told him this to be. But, for all that, he
was far too business-like a man to endanger

VOL. III. L

his daughter's inheritance. If they decided
to avenge the insult put upon them by
the Ranksborows, then Lucy, at all events,
must be made clearly to understand at
v^hat risk she did so.

'The scoundrels !' muttered Mr Bramton.
The idea of their endeavouring to dictate
to me whether the horses shall run or not.
I'll write a line to this Mr Napper at once,
and just give him one for himself; and perhaps
it would be as well at the same time to
drop Drysdel & Pecker a line, and tell them
they had better inquire into this claim, and ascertain
who Mr Robbins is.' And then Mr
Bramton, in a fine glow of indignation, seated
himself at his writing-table, and prepared, ashe
expressed it, ' to let off the steam.'

Sir,' he wrote, — ' You can inform your
client, Mr Thomas Robbins, that his having
backed my horse for the Derby is a matter
about which I feel no interest. That
Damocles will run or not run just as I think
best ; but you can further inform Mr Robbins
that I shall probably decide upon the

latter, — that I don't bet myself, and feel no
pity for those who lose money by doing"
so. My solicitors are Messrs Drysdel &
Pecker, Lincoln's Inn Fields, to whom you
are requested to address all further communications.'


Mr Napper gave vent to a long whistle
when this epistle reached him.

This will be pleasant news for Uncle
Noel when he hears it,' he muttered. ' I
should say, from this letter, Damocles won't
run. Refers us, too, to Drysdel & Pecker.
Thoroughly respectable, and, besides that,
as smart a going firm of solicitors as there
is in all London. That Pecker is as sharp
as a needle. If he don't come down himself,
he'll have a clerk down here to-day or
tomorrow, who will have reckoned up Tom
Robbins in less than no time, and know that
we have no case whatever. Then he is safe
to call here, and find out that I'm not the
firm, but only a clerk, and that my employers
know nothing whatever of the business.
How I wish I hadn't been so sharp.

Oh, Sim Napper, what a thundering ass
you've made of yourself! I suppose I shall
get the sack, and Uncle Noel a real nose-enter.
Whew, I wish this brute Damocles
was dead ! '

In the course of the next day or two, Mr
Bramton confided the story of Napper's
letter to his future son-in-law. Sir Kenneth
was much interested in the whole thing, as
this was the first time he had become acquainted
with the peculiar conditions of
Dick Bramton's will.

It's a deuced odd will,' he remarked at
last, with his slow, somewhat peculiar drawl,
but you are quite right. I have no doubt
that is a mere impudent attempt to extort
money from you, by somebody who has become
acquainted with the terms of Richard
Bramton's last testament. Of course, you
don't mean to take any notice of what this
fellow says, and will strike Damocles out of
the Derby, all the same.'

There was a touch of true Scotch caution
about Sir Kenneth, and he had been careful
to ascertain that the fortunes of his

fiancee Matilda would be in no wise influenced
by any legal consequences that
came of bidding Robbins defiance. He had
considerable admiration for his wife that was
to be, but Sir Kenneth was not the sort of
man, even in his youth, to have made a love-match.
If, like the Laird of Cocked,

He wanted a wife his braw loose to keep,'

he was fully determined that she must do
her share pecuniarily towards keeping it.

I should tell my lawyer, if I were you,
to inquire pretty closely into the life and
doings of Tom Robbins, and what sort of
a solicitor this Mr Napper is. A little investigation
of this kind will probably squelch
the case before ten days are over.'

Just so, just so. Sir Kenneth. I'll make
it hot for him. I'll make Mr Robbins sit
up, before I've done with him ; and if he
has backed Damocles, I only hope it is for
all he is worth.'

That will probably turn out to be not
much,' rejoined Sir Kenneth, with a dry
laugh. ' It's much more likely that he is an

impudent vagabond, who, upon the strength
of being some distant connection to your
late brother, thinks it might be possible to
frighten you into buying his silence.'

And then Sir Kenneth was suddenly
struck with a new aspect of the affair.
Yes, he thought, it was absolutely necessary
that he should know the story of Tom Robbins.
He was about to marry Miss Brandon,
a pretty, ladylike young woman, who
would pass anywhere as Lady Sandiman.
His sister-in-law, he felt, would also do him
credit. Bramton, father and mother, had
been accepted by Barkshire, and, in consideration
of their wealth, Barkshire had
tacitly agreed to vote their vulgarity merely
eccentricity. But needy, poor relations of
the Tom Robbins type in the background,
was a thing to be inquired into. Tom Robbins
might be only one of a very vagabond
crew who could claim kinship with the family
he proposed to marry into ; racing men like
Dick Bramton were likely to be loose fishes,
and Heaven knows what queer connection
this man might have formed in his youth.

Sir Kenneth felt he should be more comfortable
when the Tom Robbins mystery was
cleared up. He was not to blame altogether.
It must be remembered he was a proud man,
and that though money was an important
factor in his matrimonial views, still no
amount of it would have compensated him
for the discovery that his wife had a lot of
poor and vagrant cousins, claiming privilege,
on the strength of that cousinship, to
call her 'Tilda.' Yes, decidedly the mystery
of Tom Robbins must be cleared up.

As far as that latter worthy was concerned,
the collapse of Mr Napper's ingenious
scheme would matter little. Like
most votaries of horse-racing, he constantly
indulged in dreams of suddenly-acquired
wealth. This would only be another of
these golden visions dissolved. But to
Mr Napper it was otherwise. He saw, too
late, the pains and penalties attaching to
his audacious attempt, and that the end of
the business might be the cancelling of
his articles, and dismissal by his employers.
This disconcerted Mr Napper not a lite.

He had marked out his future, and was
only longing for the time when he should
be able to set up as an attorney on his own
account. He thought he saw his way into
a snug little business, under the guise of a
sporting solicitor, combining a little money-lending,
at somewhat usurious interest, with
it. He had scraped together two or three
hundred, to which his uncle's five would
make a very comfortable addition, and now
this career of prosperous industry stood in
some danger of being nipped in the bud.

Mr Noel, too, when he received his
nephew's letter, uttered a malediction, and
then proceeded to invoke very questionable
blessings on the head of Mr Bramton. He
had thrown on one side the hint that had
been vouchsafed him, and, taking advantage
of the report of the accident to Damocles,
which he had been instrumental in
bringing about, had thoroughly upset the
colt's spahis ' in the market for the time.
He now stood a very good stake with the
colt, and though, in consequence of having
a book based upon sound mathematical

principles, he would be no heavy loser by
the horse's failure, yet Mr Noel loved
money, and was bitterly annoyed at the
idea of the comfortable stake he had marked
out for himself slipping through his fingers.
He would have repudiated the idea that he
had ever placed much dependence on this
scheme for terrorising Mr Bramton, but in
his heart of hearts he had, and was frightfully
disgusted at his complete failure, and
still more at Mr Bramton's intimation that
he should probably not run the horse at
Epsom.

Mr Pecker, on receiving Bramton's letter,
resolved to go down to Newmarket at once,
and found very little difficulty, in the course
of three or four hours, in finding out as
much as he thought it necessary to know
about Tom Robbins.

I went to see,' he wrote, ' Stubber, in
the first place. I found he knew nothing
of Richard Bramton's will, nor of the threat
that had been launched against you in the
event of your deciding not to run Damocles

for the Derby. I thought It best not to
enlighten him. But he did know all about
Mr Tom Robbins, and readily told all he
knew. It seems Robbins has lately claimed
to be a son of the late Richard Bramton.
Your brother never acknowledged him in
the slightest way when he was alive, nor
is he, as we know, mentioned in the will.
Richard Bramton spent his life at Newmarket,
and there are many who, like
Stubber, have known him from a boy.
They have all the greatest doubts of Robbins
having the slightest claim to calling
the deceased gentleman his father. And
bear in mind that he never ventured to do
so while Richard Bramton was alive. Further,
in any case, they are quite convinced
that he was never born in wedlock, — that
the mother in her youth was well known at
Newmarket, and reputed to be by no means
straitlaced of character; in short, I am quite
convinced that the whole affair is a mere
trumped-up charge, for the purpose of extorting
money, and, in my opinion, quite
unworthy of consideration. Remember,

as I told you before, that if a legitimate

claimant came forward with an apparently

legitimate case, I should advise you to ru n

Damocles sooner than give him a pretext

for litigation ; but in the present instance I

am sure you need not trouble yourself. —

Your obedient servant,

R. Pecker.'

'That settles it!' exclaimed Sir Kenneth,
when Bramton showed him the letter.
You'll strike out Damocles, if it is only
to payout Mr Tom Robbins for his confounded
impudence.'

FLOOD CALLS AT TEMPLE RISING.

A MAN sorely exercised in his mind at this
time was Alec Flood. He had said, in the
first instance, that it was impossible for him
to go to Temple Rising, — that he could not
possibly venture to expostulate with Mr
Bramton on what he might choose to do
with his horses ; but now, through Skinner,
had come to the Earl the curious information
that Lucy Bramton was the actual
owner of the horses, and not her father.
Skinner had written, after the Two Thousand
week, to his old patron, and told him
the exact state of the case, so far as he
could understand it. He mentioned that
it was rumoured the horses were not the

property of Mr Bramton, and that he was
a mere name in the whole business. ' Such
is the rumour ringing all through the racing
world at this minute, and it is so far true,
that the horses, like all the rest of the
property, were bequeathed to Miss Lucy
Bramton. I have been at the trouble of
seeing the will, and know that this is so,
but this, I should imagine, does not in the
least affect Mr Bramton's control of Damocles.
Noel, formerly his greatest opponent,
has turned round, and is now one
of the horse's most substantial supporters.
Stubber tells me the colt never was better,
and I can personally vouch that he is doing
his work in grand form. The whole thine
seems to me to lie in a nutshell. Damocles
will, I fancy, win the Derby, should he
start ; and the betting, like everything else,
tends to show that he will. There is nothing
but that temporary rumour that Mr Brandon
did not mean to run him, and which,
though scotched for the present, still crops
up again at intervals, to make his backers
in the least uneasy.'

Alec Flood knew by this time what a
very serious matter the victory of this colt
was to the Earl of Ranksborow, and indeed
to all his family. He did not want to interfere
; he most assuredly shrank, knowing
what he did, from going over to Temple
Rising, especially with any view to discussing
this subject with Mr Bramton. At
present there seemed no cause for his interference.
According to Skinner, it looked
as if Mr Bramton had forgotten the words
spoken in his wrath, and, though no racing
or betting man, was going to pick up as
many big stakes with the horses committed
to his charge as his trainer deemed practicable.
And yet Alec felt uneasy. He knew
John Bramton, and he felt intuitively that
Matilda's was no forgiving nature ; and
then he began to wonder what he ought
to do, should they be informed on good
authority that Mr Bramton was resolved
not to run Damocles.

He argued it out with himself, in clear,
logical fashion. His love for Lucy had
faltered not one whit. He knew very well

that nothing but the success of this horse
could possibly stop the sale of a great part
of the Knightshayes estate. He knew, of
course, that this would so widen the breach
between the Ranksborows and Bramtons,
that there would be slight chance of Jack
and Lucy ever meeting. It would be, in all
probability, to extinguish the chance of his
most formidable rival ; and though he was
a rejected suitor now, who should say that
his chance might not come, once Jack Cuckold
was satisfactorily disposed of. And
yet, Jack was his dearest friend, and Lucy
the one girl he had ever cared about ; and
he believed thoroughly that her liking for
Jack Cuxwold was the cause of her own indifference
to himself. ' Friends ever,' she
had said earnestly at parting, and, as Alec
thought it all over, he began to doubt
whether, if it became advisable to interfere,
he shouldn't be acting a mean part in adhering
to the doctrine of non-intervention.
At the present moment, to judge from
Mr Skinner's letter, there was no call for
his interference ; but, supposing between

this and the race things went wronor aorain,
was he justified in standing aloof, and making
no attempt to heal the breach between
the two families ? He had nothing to do
but to take a passive part. Neither Lord
Ranksborow nor Jack had suggested that
he should undertake the role of the peacemaker
; but if his lips had not spoken it,
Jack Cuxwold's eyes, when the subject was
beings discussed, had more than once hinted
it. He could see clearly that if Mr Brandon
fulfilled his threat, the quarrel between
Lord Ranksborow and the master of Temple
Rising would never be made up. And Jack
Cuxwold could not but side with his father.
On board ship that night, it had been clear
to him that the person of all others Jack
ought to marry was Lucy Bramton. She
was a charming girl, and half in love with
him already, as he with her. And she
would bring a rare dowry with her with
which to prop up the tottering Ranksborow
peerage. Let this Derby but come off
right, and that rickety coronet would be sofar
buttressed as to save Jack from going

wooing in forma pauperis. It was obvious
to him that this might very Hkely depend
upon himself to bring about. For the first
time, they had become aware that Miss
Lucy was the real owner of the horses, and
upon her dictum it really depended whether
Damocles ran for the Derby or not.

All's fair in love or war,' they say, and
Flood felt that it was within his power to
keep Jack and Lucy permanently apart.
But for what good ? He had had his
chance, — a fair field, and no competitor,
from whom he had cause to apprehend
danger, on the scene. He had put his
fortune to the test, and received a firm but
courteous refusal. True, girls did change
their minds, and many a maiden has been
wooed and won by the rejected of former
days. Friendship is of small account when
weighed against love ; but still. Alec could
but feel he had no right to stand between
these two, on the somewhat shadowy chance
of forwarding his own prospects. No, he
made up his mind that if it became expedient,
he would go over to Temple Rising,

VOL. III. M

and, at all events, see if there was anything
to be done.

He had not long to wait, for in a very
few days Damocles once more began to
decline in the betting. Mr Noel, at the
present moment, was in possession of what
he considered the best possible information
about the intentions of the owner of that
colt. It was most improbable that Miss
Lucy would differ from her father in her
views about the running of the horse. He
has it in John Bramton's own handwriting
that the colt will probably not run for the
Derby, and Mr Noel considers that quite
sufficient to justify him in taking back his
money, that is to say, in once more laying
against Damocles, to recover what he has
backed him for. Gloomily the Earl beholds
the horse recede, point by point, in the betting,
dropping from fours gradually to tens
and twelves to one. He knows that the
colt is well, and that this can be nothing but
the foreshadowed result of Mr Bramton's
vow of vengeance. Paragraphs began to
appear in the sporting papers, commenting

on the extraordinary manner in which Mr
Bramton's horse was knocked about in the
market, and upon the revival of the old
rumour that he would not be seen at Epsom.
Mr Bramton, we understand, is no sportsman,
and utterly unversed in the mysteries
of the turf ; but we presume he is gifted
with common sense, and he must know that
for the tricks being played in his name he
will be held responsible, and that the striking
out of a horse from a great race at the
eleventh hour is conduct utterly inadmissible,
if that horse is fit to run. Damocles
was quite at the top of the tree as a two-year-old,
and should give a rare account of
himself, if he has done well since we saw
him at Newmarket in the Two Thousand
week. We thought we had never seen a
colt more improved. That Mr Bramton is
not going to run his colt at Epsom we cannot
bring ourselves to believe ; but if he
carries out the intention which rumour ascribes
to him, we can only say that he will
have made a name in turf history which
no man need envy him, and which will be

<*>

enough to make poor Dick Bramton lie
uneasy in his grave.'

But these severe strictures were as yet
confined to the sporting press, and that
was a literature not patronised at Temple
Rising.

Poor Dartree,' said Jack, after reading
the above ; ' he certainly did upset the coach
with a vengeance. Shylock means having
his pound of flesh, and no mistake about
it. He won't be deterred by the threatened
anger of the British public, because he'll
never picture what a storm of abuse will
descend upon him if he scratches the colt
now.'

I suppose he will get pretty handsomely
slated by the press,' replied Flood.

Yes,' rejoined Cuxwold. ' The Derby
is one of our national institutions, and
Englishmen don't stand tricks played with
those. The favourite for the Derby becomes
public property. The public sympathise
with you if your horse comes to
grief, — are very angry on your behalf should
he be tampered with, but play tricks with

him yourself, and you've about brought
down Niagara on your devoted head.'

Flood said no more, but muttering something
about having letters to write, walked
off to the library. A few turns up and down
the deserted room and he had made up his
mind. If he was to interfere, there was no
time to be lost, for the horse might be struck
out now at any moment, and then the case
was past remedy. He would ride over to
Temple Rising that afternoon, and see what
could be done. No need to take anyone
into his confidence ; far better not, he
thought, at all events certainly in the first
place. Alec Flood was accustomed to do
pretty much as he liked at Knightshayes,
and therefore his asking at luncheon if he
could have a hack for the afternoon created
no sort of surprise, and, that meal disposed
of. Alec was soon cantering towards
Temple Rising.

He found Mr and Mrs Bramton with
Lucy in the drawing-room. Miss Bramton
and her yf^;2f</ were gone out for a ride, but
the remainder of the family, although with

a certain air of constraint, welcomed him
cordially. They were unfeignedly glad to
see him, and were particularly anxious not
to include him in their quarrel with Knight-shades,
but, for all that, they could not forget
that he came from the enemy's camp.
Mr Bramton, after a few fatuous remarks
about the weather, drifted on into anxious
inquiry about Flood's health, finally blurting
out the hope that Captain Cuxwold was
pretty well, and then, becoming suddenly
conscious that the very name of that family
was tabooed at Temple Rising, muttered
something about important directions to give
to the gardeners, and made his escape from
the room. Poor Mrs Bramton was dying
to do the same ; she honestly didn't know
what to say to her guest. The quarrel with
the Knightshayes people was a continual
topic of conversation amongst them, and yet
she was quite aware that she must not touch
upon that topic this afternoon. Alec cut the
Gordian knot for them. He boldly said, —
Can I speak to you alone, Miss Lucy ?
I have something to say for your ears only.*

'All right, Mr Flood!' exclaimed Mrs
Bramton. ' I have two or three things to
look after, and will leave you two together
and, only too delighted to make her escape,
Mrs Bramton withdrew.

You can guess what I've come to talk
about, Lucy,' said Flood, as the door closed.
I want to speak to you about this quarrel
between your father and Lord Ranksborow.'

That is hardly stating the case correctly,'
replied Lucy. ' It is not with my father but
with the whole family that the quarrel lies.
Have they told you the truth about it ? Are
you aware that Lord Dartree, a constant
and favoured guest, mind, at our house, held
us all up to ridicule in the supper-room, at
the conclusion of the Wroxeter ball ? '

Yes, I have heard it,' rejoined Flood
quietly, ' and regret it as much as any other
member of the Ranksborow family. Poor
Dartree has gone to his account, and is no
more to be reckoned with in this world. He
was not quite himself when he made that
foolish speech. Not that, were he alive, I
would plead that in his defence. A man

must abide by his actions, whether he has
taken too much wine or not.'

He made us generally, and my sister in
particular, the laughingstock of the ballroom,'
rejoined Lucy, with tingling cheeks
and flashing eyes.

As I said before,' replied Alec, ' I have
nothing to say in his defence. But don't
you think you're pursuing a sheer Corsican
vendetta against the Cuxwolds ? Lord
Ranksborow is entirely innocent of uttering
one word to your disparagement. You
are holding him accountable for his son's
words ; and, as Mr Brandon has rightly
guessed, whether Damocles wins or does
not win the Derby, makes a difference so
serious to him that I don't mind admitting
to you, in confidence, that half the Knight-shades
estate must come to the hammer
should this their last hope fail them.'

We can't, Mr Flood, we can't indeed.
What papa has said, you may depend
upon it, he will stick to ; he is a man who
prides himself upon keeping to his word.'

No, Lucy, that won't do,' replied Flood.

^ We know, Indeed everybody knows now,
that the horses are your property. I
happen to know, moreover, that you came
of age six weeks ago, and can do absolutely
what you like in this matter. If you choose
to say Damocles shall run, he must run,
whatever your father may say to the contrary.
I only ask you to remember two
things — first, that you're ruining Lord
Ranksborow, against whom you have personally
no grudge ; further, that in his ruin
you involve that of his son. Jack Cuxwold,
who certainly upon one occasion did his
best to stand between you and trouble ;
secondly, you have no idea of the storm
of abuse that will descend upon your
father's head, should he persist in his
determination.'

I don't know what to do ! ' cried Lucy.
I wish poor Uncle Dick had never left
his dreadful horses to me. Matilda will
never forgive me if I flinch now ; and Sir
Kenneth — he, too, is as unsparing in his
resentment as my father and sister.'

I can fancy that,' rejoined Flood. * Sir

Kenneth Is no friend to any of the Ranks-brow
family.'

Stop ! ' cried Lucy. ' Leave me now ;
I must have time to think. Tell Captain
Cuxwold to ride over here and see me
himself. He owes us, at all events, some
amends for his brother's speech.'

Alec Flood said no more : he was far
too practised a diplomatist not to refrain
from further words, when he found his
point was gained. He bent over Lucy's
hand for a moment, then raised it to his
lips, said, in a low tone, ' Friends ever ! '
and disappeared.

LUCY ASSERTS HERSELF.

Alec Flood rode back to Knightshayes
in a high state of elation. He had done
what, in the vernacular of his set, was
termed ' the straight thing,' and, say what
he will, man is usually well satisfied with
himself when that is the case. Then he
had succeeded beyond his expectations.
He felt perfectly certain that Lucy would
never have told him to send Jack to her,
unless she had made up her mind that
Damocles should start for the Derby.
Further, he would have brought those two
together. ' And now,' he said to himself,
with a half smile, ' I wash my hands of
their affairs from this out : they will get on

far better without my meddling.' But if
his interview had turned out very satisfactory,
it had taken a turn for which Alec
Flood was not at all prepared. Keeping
his visit to Temple Rising a secret was
now no longer possible ; and, in Flood's
eyes, the interests at stake were so large,
that Jack Cuxwold could not attend to
Lucy's commands too quickly. Jack Cuckold's
astonishment when he heard the
news was something more than great. He
could hardly believe it. He had made up
his mind that the best part of the old acres
must go, and that Bramton would carry
out his vow of vengeance to the letter.

It's awfully good of you, old man,' he
said, * to go over there and open negotiations
; but when did you ever fail to
stand by a pal in difficulties ? '

Don't talk rot,' rejoined Flood bluntly.
Just bear this in mind. I have smoothed
the way for 3'ou, but I can't do any more.
The lady declines to treat, you see, except
with the principal. Mind you ride over
there in good time tomorrow.'

*Yes. I've got a good deal of humble
pie to eat, I know.'

You've got to do nothing of the sort replied
Alec. 'You've got to apologise for poor
Dartree's insulting speech, which, you know,
he never ought to have made, and which I
am sure he never would have made, except
under the influence of wine. But there's
another thing, Jack. Do you recollect our
conversation that last night on board ship?'

Yes,' rejoined Cuxwold.

Well, you had better take it seriously
into consideration. Lucy Bramton is far the
nicer sister of the two, and he will be a fortunate
man who wins her for a wife. This
is quite disinterested on my part, for if I
thought I had the slightest chance myself,
I would ask her tomorrow ! '

I couldn't touch upon that at present,'
replied Cuxwold. ' She is a nice girl, as I
remember, — far too nice to be offered the
reversion of a pauper peerage. If she gives
us a last chance to emerge from the slough of
our difficulties, it's as much as we can expect.'

However, it was settled between the two

young men that the Earl should be told
nothing of the new hopes that had dawned
concerning Damocles, at all events till after
Jack's visit to Temple Rising.

Lucy that evening had a hard time of it
with her own family. They were naturally
boiling over with curiosity to know why Mr
Flood had desired a private interview with
Lucy. What had he to say ? What did
he want. And when she informed them of
what Alec Flood had said, their indignation
knew no bounds.

Of course, of course,' said Mr Bramton
angrily, taking up a position on the hearth-rug,
and sticking his thumbs into the armholes
of his waistcoat, and setting his head
defiantly on one side. ' We give them the
best we have, and then they take the earliest
opportunity of publicly insulting us. I told
the Earl I'd make him pay for it in pocket,
and I will.'

But you must remember, papa,' interposed
Lucy, ' that it was not Lord Ranks-brow
who insulted us.'

Tt'sthesame thing,' rejoined Mr Bramton.

^ I said he should pay for it, and he shall.
I am a man of my word.'

Well, Lucy,' remarked Miss Bramton, 'if
toucan forget that insulting speech, you have
more charity in your composition than I have.'

The Ranksborows are all supercilious
beasts,' said Sir Kenneth, who happened to
be staying at Temple Rising. ' They never
thought of tendering an apology until it was
close upon the verge of the big race, and
they find Mr Bramton is in earnest about
what he threatened.'

Still,' replied Lucy, ' I say again this is
to punish Lord Ranksborow for something
he did not do.'

He was very insolent to me,' rejoined
Mr Bramton. ' And I don't care what you
say, ril have no more shilly-shallying about
it. I shall write to the proper people tomorrow,
and tell them to take Damocles
out of the race.'

Lucy said nothing. She could be very
determined when she chose, and she had
made up her mind to have her own way in
this matter. She would say nothing until

she had seen Jack Cuxwold; but she knew
that these horses were hers, that she was of
age, and that it depended entirely upon herself
to say whether they should run or not.
Although denominations stood inStubber's
name, yet the racing world had for the last
year regarded the horses as Mr Bramton's
property, and it was only quite lately the
fact had leaked out that they were really
the property of his daughter. Now though
her father did not, Lucy Bramton knew
perfectly well who were the proper people
to write to to strike Damocles out of the
Derby. She foresaw exactly what was
taking place, — that her father would endeavour
to assume the control of her horses,
and do what he thought fit. And to guard
against that, she had herself written a line
by that evening's post to MessrsWeatherby,
to say that she had authorised nobody to
strike her horses out of their engagements,
and that they were to pay no attention to any
instructions, except under her own hand.

In the meantime, the discussion went on,
although Lucy took no further part in it.

and it was finally agreed in the family conclave,
that the apology had come far too late,
and that the Earl of Ranksborow must take
the consequences of the ungentlemanly language
it had pleased his son to use at the
VVroxeter ball. Lucy was so quiet in her
manner compared with the rest of her family,
that her father had never recognised that
she could be much more determined than
either her mother or sister when it came to
the point. John Bramton had stood to a
certain extent in awe of what he termed his
wife's ' fangs ' all his life, but he looked
upon her whims as a mere nothing compared
to the wishes and fancies of his daughter
Matilda. Although Miss Bramton dexterously
concealed it in society, yet in the domestic
circle she was gifted with a tongue
given to run riot when things were not going
to her liking. She stood in not the slightest
awe of her parents, and expressed her feelings
with a breadth which, though unpleasant,
was gratifying to hear in these days
of the advancing freedom of woman. Mr
Bramton ventured at times to cross swords

VOL. III. N

with his wife — he was somewhat wary even
of that encounter — but a downright forcible
difference with his elder daughter, John
Bramton was exceedingly shy of. As he
once put it confidentially to a crony — 'Shea
nice gal, Matilda — good-looking, sensible
gal, but I tell you what, Bubbleton, she hasher
ma's temper, brewed a trifle over proof.
And it's a real hot 'un when you come to
differ with her.'

Now the opinion of his wife, the opinion of
Matilda, and also the opinion of Sir Kenneth,
all coincided with Mr Bramton's own, and
no gentleman who ever owned a racehorse
went to bed more determined to strikeahorse
out of a race than Mr Bramton did to excise
Damocles from the Derby the next day.

Mr Stubber,aswell as Messrs Weatherbyby,
was somewhat astonished the next morning
by a letter he received from Lucy Bramton.
It was very brief; it only reminded him
that she was the real owner of the horse,
that he was to continue his preparations of
the colt for Epsom, and to take instructions
from no one but herself concerning him in

the future. That Stubber was delighted
with the receipt of this letter, it is almost
needless to mention. His horse was doing
as well as anybody could wish, and let him
only be allowed to start at Epsom, and
Stubber looked forward to all the glory of
leading in the first winner of the Derby he
had ever trained. That this intelligence
was speedily conveyed to Mr Skinner was
matter of course, and then once again
Tattersall's and the Victoria Club were
wondrously puzzled at the shiftiness of the
betting market. Mr Noel and his friends,
acting on the former's information, in their
anxiety to save their money, had driven
Damocles once more to almost an outside
price in the market. Suddenly came the
reaction, and Mr Skinner and his friends
snapped at every offer they could get against
the colt, till he was once more established
in the price-list at 6 or 7 to i. Noel could
not understand it. His own information he
considered beyond dispute, but he was quite
aware that his opponent was not the man
to throw a chance away, and it was little

likely that he had ' rushed ' Damocles in the
market in this fashion, unless he also had
pretty good grounds for what he was doing.
Noel knew that the horse was well, and
doing capital work. The question was, did
these Bramtons mean him to run at Epsom ?
According what he knew, they did not, but
Skinner's new tactics pointed to his having
information he could rely upon that the horse
would start. Mr Noel remarked testily to
one of his intimates that it was about the
queerest game he had ever seen, and that it
was devoutly to be trusted that gentlemen
who understood nothing about racing might
never own racehorses for the future.

Had a bomb-shell fallen into the 
at Temple Rising, it could not
have created greater consternation than did
Lucy's announcement that she expected
Captain Cuxwold — they had none of them
got into the habit of calling him Lord Darted
as yet — over to see her in the course
of the afternoon.

'Well, I couldn't have believed it!' exclaimed
Mr Bramton. ' After the scandalous

way in which we have been treated
by his family, that that young man should
attempt to force his way into our house,
beats me, it does.'

Should have thought he might have
waited till he was asked,' sneered Sir
Kenneth.

It's the same old story,' snapped Miss
Bramton. ' You were quite right, papa, the
only way to touch these people is through
their pocket ; and, now Lord Ranksborow
finds he is likely to pay dear for the insult
that was put upon us, he is mean enough to
cringe and seek our friendship.'

You have no business to say that ! ' exclaimed
Lucy warmly. ' Captain Cuxwold
is coming here because I told Mr Flood I
wished him to come and see me.'

'And I should like to know, miss,'cried Mrs
Bramton, 'what reason you have for asking
a man we dislike to your father's house ? '

I don't well know how you can dislike
a man you never saw,' retorted Lucy ; ' at
all events, I have something to say to him.
and I don't see where else I am to say it.'

I couldn't have believed it of you ; I
couldn't indeed ! ' exclaimed Mr Bramton.
Asking a man who called your sister — '

Papa ! ' suddenly cried Miss Bramton,
and Mr Bramton suddenly gave a gulp, as
if he had swallowed an orange.

Sir Kenneth's face wore a look of disappointed
curiosity. He had never been
able to make out what this insulting speech
had been precisely. Miss Bramton had
sworn her whole family to secrecy on the
appellation that had been conferred on her.

You would surely never be so mean,'
continued Matilda, 'to start that horse after
all. You won't let her, papa, surely .'^ '

I have not made up my mind,' rejoined
Lucy ; ' but I can tell you this : I am of
age, and the horse is mine, and I shall
certainly do as I think best with my own.
Had Lord Dartree lived, Matilda, it would
have been different. The insult, remember,
was almost as great to me as to yourself,
but the man who uttered it is prone.'

I can't say, Lucy,' remarked Mr Brandon
severely, ' that you are showing much

consideration for the feelings of your family,
I never thought you, at all events, would
turn out a headstrong daughter

I must think for myself on this point
rejoined Lucy. ' Captain Cuxwold, remember,
was very kind to me that time I
was at Cairo ; and it's hardly fair to punish
him for an offence which he did not commit ;
and, as Mr Flood pointed out the day before
yesterday, it is he who will eventually suffer
for the words his brother spoke. Secondly,
our name will be brought into terrible disrepute
if Damocles does not start. All
sorts of nasty things will be written against
you, papa, for the odium of the horse not
running will be put down to you ; and
lastly, had poor Uncle Dick lived, I'm sure
his earnest wish would have been that
Damocles might win the Derby.

You must go your own way ; henceforth I
wash my hands of you,' retorted Mr Bramton
feebly. And then the conclave broke up,
with a tacit understanding that none of them,
at all events, would extend the hand of friendship
to the Honourable Captain Cuxwold.

DAMOCLES SHALL RUN.

Jack Cuxwold started for his visit to
Temple Rising in due course, but he by no
means Heed the doing of this thing that he
had to do. It was all very well to apologise
for poor Dartree's reckless words, but it was
another thing to come asking a favour at
the same time. Such assistance as he had
been able to give Lucy Bramton at Cairo,
he had been only too pleased to bestow ;
but that he should ever make capital of it,
and ask her, in return for such trifle, to do
him a great favour, had never crossed his
mind. That a Cuxwold could possibly look
for assistance from a niece of Dick Brandon
— the half bookmaker, half owner of
racehorses — was a thing Jack Cuxwold

would have derided. Yet now it was so ;
and the last chance of Knightshayes escaping
from the vultures that already crowded
the air, lay in the decision of this girl of
one-and-twenty. The fiat of herself and
family had gone forth, and Knightshayes,
metaphorically, was given to the crows, or,
to speak more prosaically, the broad acres
of the Ranksborows must go to those from
whom they had borrowed moneys — not
wisely, but too freely. It wasn't a pleasant
task that lay before him. He recollected
the bright, bonny English girl that stood
before him on the deck of the steamer, ashe
pressed her hand in bidding her adieu.
He had looked forward, many a time, to
what fun it would be their meeting ao^ain;
but there seemed to be very little fun about
it now. True, he had no fear of being met
in any hostile spirit. It was little likely
that any woman, much less a girl like Lucy
Bramton, would send for him to pour forth
the vials of her wrath on his head for the
offending of his dead brother ; but he had
looked forward to meeting her so differently.

He was to have been the prince descending-from
his platform to welcome the humble
maiden he had met in foreign lands ; and
now, he was riding forth as the bankrupt
noble, humbly imploring Lucy to, if possible,
save him from the effects of the improvidence
of his ancestors.

He had argued it out more than once, and
he argued it out yet again, as he rode slowly
towards Temple Rising. No, the more he
looked at it the less he liked it. Nothing
was more repugnant to him than this visit,
and yet he felt that it was his bounden duty
to make it, for the sake of his family.

It was a chance — only a chance, if you
like — but the last chance of averting the
final crash. To say that those words which
his brother had uttered were a mistake,
words uttered when his brother was not
quite himself, and which all his family deeply
regretted, was easy enough. But it was
difficult to ask a favour on the top of this.
As far as he remembered Lucy Bramton,
she was a girl to whom it would be easier
to make this request than to many. But

Jack was far too much a man of the world
not to know how circumstances change
people, and that the heiress of West Bark-shire
might prove very different from the
pleasant, unassuming girl he had met within
the land of the Pharaohs. He had Alec
Flood's word for it that she was not changed.
But ah ! he sighed, with a dreary smile, Alec
wanted nothing from her, little thinking that
Alec had asked for far more than he dreamt
of doing to-day, and had ridden home with
his petition rejected. He reached Temple
Rising at last, jumped off his hack, rang the
bell, and inquired for Miss Lucy Bramton.
It takes a good deal to stagger the aplomb
of a light dragoon, more especially when
dealing with fiunkydom ; but even Jack Cuckold
was staggered at the extraordinary
interest he seemed to excite in the butler
and one or two footmen, who invariably
paraded upon the arrival of a visitor at
Temple Rising. In the first place, Jack
was a hero from the Soudan, reputed to
have slain heaps of ' them there Arabs '
with his own hand ; and, secondly, it is

not to be supposed that all the household
were not perfect aware of the feud that
existed between their master and Knight-shades.
The tragic death of Lord Dartree,
and the sudden accession of ' that there
captive of the Arabs ' to his place, had produced
endless discussion in the servants'
hall ; and that the wild warriors of the
Soudan tattooed their captives, had been
most emphatically laid down by the butler.

In Barkshire Jack Cuxwold was regarded
as a hero, and wondrous were the tales told
of his escape from the Arabs, and the
numbers he had slain in achieving it. The
servants at Temple Rising were all agog to
get a peep at the man who, in West Bark-shire
eyes, was the hero of the Soudan.
However, Cuxwold, after some slight delay,
is ushered into the pretty morning-room,
and there he finds Lucy awaiting him.
There was considerable constraint about
their manner to begin with ; but, for a
wonder, the Lancer is the first to recover
his sang froid.

I should never have ventured to intrude

upon you, Miss Bramton,' he said, in a low
tone, 'if Alec Flood had not assured me
that you would see me. As it is, the first
thing I have to do is to apologise for my
poor brother's unfortunate speech at Wrox-
ever. I am sure he was not expressing his
real feelings, and what he said was wrung
from him because he lost his temper at
being rallied by Anson and the rest of
them about his attentions to your sister

I heard what he said, and nothing can
excuse his words,' replied Lucy.

I don't pretend that I can. I don't
even pretend that its being never meant
for your ears was much palliation of the
offence ; but he's gone, poor fellow, and I
can only urge what little there is in his defence.
Remember how often men talk at
random after a few glasses of wine, and say
what they never seriously intended.'

Captain Cuxwold,' said Lucy quietly,
you were very kind to me last year at
Cairo, and I have not forgotten it ; but
can you honestly say that this apology
would have been tendered us, even thus

late in the day, if your father had not been
so heavily interested in the running of
Damocles at Epsom ? '

I can say this,' replied Jack, ' that we
should probably never have ventured to
come near Temple Rising if you had not
given me the opening you did ; but, now
that I am here, I can say honestly that I
am very glad to have the opportunity of
expressing our great regret at what has occurred,
and to assure you that it has never
been our habit to ridicule your family.'

Lord Ranksborow, I am told, will win
an enormous sum of money if Damocles
should win.'

Yes,' replied Jack.

And yourself ? '

Nothing ; I haven't a shilling on the
race,' said Cuxwold.

And — I don't want to pry into your
affairs — but is it true that Lord Ranks-brow
is in great need of a lot of money '^. '

It's no great secret, and I daresay all
the county know we've nearly come to the
end of our tether ; but remember you promise

that it shall never pass your lips that
I admitted it to you.'

Lucy nodded.

Then nothing but Damocles winning the
Derby can possibly avert our smash ; there'll
be nothing for it but to sell half the property,
shut up Knightshayes, and go abroad.'

For a few minutes Lucy was silent.
She felt she must make up her mind for
good now ; and, on the other hand, if she
thought Jack Cuxwold was going to say a
word more on the subject, she was grievously
mistaken. Jack had been very
straightforward about it all. He had
answered her questions, and made no disguise
of what a great thing it would befor
his father, and, of course, indirectly
for himself, that Damocles should win
the Derby, but he was not going to plead
with her for the horse's starting.

Suddenly she raised her head.

Tell Lord Ranksborow,' she said,
from me, Damocles shall run for the
Derby, and that if he wins I shall expect
you all to call at Temple Rising. Goodbye

; ' and Lucy extended her hand, In
token that their interview was ended.

It is very very, good of you,' he murmured,
as he pressed the small palm within
his own, and in another minute or two he
was outside the house.

Alec's right,' he muttered, as he rode
home ; ' that's a girl in a hundred. If she
hadn't such a lot of money, I'm blessed if
I wouldn't try my luck. However, it's no
good thinking about that. We must see
what Damocles can do to put us on our
legs to start with. This will be great news
for the governor.'

When Alec Flood heard Jack's story, he
said quietly, —

I thought it would come out all right.
The speed and gameness of one horse
saved your paying that unconscionable
hotel bill that old Front de Boeuf had
made out for you, and we must simply
trust that Damocles will prove as good a
horse to the Earl as The Mummer was
to you. There is only one thing I hope.'

What's that ? ' inquired Jack.

That you'll stick to what Lucy Brandon
told you. Don't go near Temple
Rising till after the Derby, and then, win
or lose, your father mttst call. He can say
then what he cannot quite say now.'

I understand,' said Jack. ' An apology
now would look as If made with the one
object.'

Exactly. Another thing, don't you suppose
that girl has got things quite her own
way. When you determine to do a thing
which meets the direct disapproval of all
your family, the domestic circle Is apt to
get a little unpleasant. Leave her to play
her cards in her own way.'

Right you are, old man,' said Jack ;
'but I must tell my father. He is very
down in his luck just now, and though nothing
may come to it, still the knowledge
that Damocles is to run will be like a gleam
of sunshine to him.'

Not a doubt about It,' replied Alec,
laughing. ' Like the war-horse, he will
scent the battle from afar, and be sanguine
as ever of success.'

VOL. III. o

'<*>

Flood was perfectly right. No sooner
was it imparted to the Earl that Damocles
positively would start, than that veteran
plunger's eye sparkled, and he became
quite as confident of victory as he had ever
been in his palmiest days. But he quite
saw the wisdom of adhering strictly to the
programme that Lucy Bramton had laid
down. He thoroughly relied upon the
young lady's word, but it was a ticklish
business even yet, and any movement on
his part might be a wrong one. Much
better to do nothing than make any such
mistake.

Mr Stubber, in the meanwhile, has been
lifted into the seventh heaven. He has received
a letter from Miss Lucy Bramton, in
which she informs him that these horses —
as indeed the sporting papers had previously
informed him — are her property
solely, and that he is to take orders from
nobody else concerning them ; that Damocles
is to run at Epsom, and, she trusts,
win, but that the colt is to run, well or not
well. He naturally writes off the news to

the commissioner, and winds up his letter
with, — ' It's all right now ; the horse never
was better, and I'll walk in at the head of
a Derby winner just for once ; you see if
I don't'

It wanted now only about a week to the
great race, and Mr Noel was more than
ever disconcerted at the rush there was to
feet on Damocles. What it was he did not
know ; even the public seemed at last to
have caught the infection. What they
knew, and what they were going on, Mr
Noel could not conceive ; but one thing was
quite certain, that the backers had quite
tired out the layers, that Damocles had
quite recovered his pride of place in the
market, and bid fair to start one of the
hottest favourites for the great race ever
known. As for Skinner, his commissions
seemed inexhaustible. Curious to see what
they would close at, Mr Noel proffered 2
to I against Damocles, towards the close
of that afternoon. It was the shortest
price that the colt had yet touched ; but
Skinner shot him at once.

I'll take It In hundreds, Noel,' he cried,
and will go on at the price, if you like ! '
But Mr Noel shook his head. He was beginning
bitterly to repent of his change of
tactics. He had begun by betting heavily
against the horse, then, taking advantage
of the scare produced by the horse's
rumoured illness, which he had himself
brought about, he had turned round and
become one of its heaviest supporters.
Then, acting on the exclusive information
which he had derived from John Bramton's
letter, he had again turned round, and
ranged himself amongst the horse's bitterest
opponents. Mr Noel began to be dimly
conscious that he had made a fool of himself,
and changed sides once too often. Why
had he ever suffered himself to be gulled
into supporting that specious scheme of his
precious nephew's? If it hadn't been for
that, he would never have got John Brandon's
letter, and would have acted quite differently.
True, Mr Napper had only acted
in accordance with his uncle's orders ; but
when their schemes go awry, men are apt

to forget that such schemes were of their
own prompting, and cast round upon whose
shoulders it is most feasible to lay the
blame.

WINNING THE DERBY.

Firm as a rock at the termination of his
two-year-old career had Damocles been in
the betting for the Derby, and with good
warrant from his performances ; tossed Hke
a cork hither and thither as the Spring
drew on, till even those wiliest in turf lore
and the vagaries of the betting market
shook their heads, and said there was
either something wrong with the horse or
with those connected with him. Suddenly
both those reputed clever, and that great
general public who know nothing further
than what the calendar teaches them, but
who, for all that, are much oftener right
than those who have obtained * info7'))ia-

tion' were astounded at finding Damocles
once more installed first favourite for the
Derby, and with so much money behind
him that any shaking of his position before
the race seemed most improbable. There
Averse sinister rumours about the horse, and
many were the whispers that ' It had been
a pretty game, and the young lady's friends
ought to be ashamed of themselves It
was, of course, now generally known that
Damocles was the property of a lady.
Nobody for one moment connected Lucy
Bramton with any fraud or wrong-doing ;
while as for John Bramton, the racing
world had already come to the conclusion
that his being a rogue on the turf was all
nonsense, — that, even if he wished to be
one, he knew so little about the mysteries
of that famous pastime, ' that he didn't
know how,' and therefore his unfortunate
trainer fell in for all the odium of the
situation. Yes, this was Stubber's doing.
Stubber had pulled the strings. Stubber,
for many years, had delighted in playing
the game of thimble-rig with the public.

Stubber, as of yore, had served them up a
mock favourite in Lucifer, and pretended
that Damocles had gone amiss, when the
colt had never been sick or sorry. Stubber
was accountable for the whole unsavoury
business that had been pursued in connection
with the horse, and it was much to be
desired that that scoundrel Stubber should
profit nothing by all his hanky-panky tricks.
Poor Stubber! He was an honest enough
hard-workings trainer, but it had been his
misfortune to have a few masters to whom
racehorses were nothing but instruments
for gaming. He had said once before, in
melancholy tones, to a few of his cronies,
that he was ' tired to death of getting bosses
ready for races, for which it was never intended
they should run.' And now, poor
man, he was accused of manipulating Damocles
in the turf market, a thing with which
we know he had nothing whatever to do.
But the trainer very often bears the blame
upon these occasions ; and should, at the
last moment, the horse not justify the confidence
displayed in him, it's odds that the

jockey also Is deemed to have contributed
to his defeat. In a case like this, the actual
result of the race matters very little. Win
or lose, the public are wont to believe that
those connected with the horse that has
been knocked about in the market after
the manner of Damocles, have made their
money out of it ; and the popular verdict
of approval or disapproval, whether they
cheer the winner, or receive his victory
with a groan, depends principally upon how
far his triumph has profited that great force
the British public. They are a tremendous
force, this British public, and guided
in the main by a marvellous sense of fair
play, — apt always to identify themselves
with the weaker side. In opposition to
the authorities. If they have the slightest
idea that there has been undue exercise of
the prerogative. Their appreciation of
pluck — of what I must term * straight
going,' is extraordinary. Few who ever
witnessed It can forget the cheer that met
the late Marquis of Hastings as he walked
into the ring on Ascot Heath after that, for

him, disastrous Derby of '67, his face — cool,
calm, dauntless as ever — leaving no clue to
the spectator of what a terrible inroad into
a fine property the great race at Epsom often
days before had resulted in.

The Derby week has arrived at last, and
the market indicates that Damocles is as
well as his admirers could desire. Even
Mr Noel is quite convinced now that he
will run, although his name is not yet mentioned
among the arrivals at Epsom. Noel
has resigned himself to lose his money.
The bookmaker does not like this — nobody
does, for the matter of that — but still
it is all in the way of business, and it by no
means signifies ruin to him. Lord Ranks-brow's
case is very different : the colt's
victory for him means salvation.

As Flood had surmised, Lucy Bramton
had a hard time of it with her family, when
she asserted her intention of doing what
she liked with her own. Miss Bramton
and Sir Kenneth strongly opposed it, and,
urged by them, Mr Bramton was very
obstinate about the matter. But there was

no contesting her right, and Mr Bramton
was quite aware now that to give orders
in opposition to his daughter's, would be
to make hlmseU' ridiculous. Driven to
bay, she told him what she had written to
Messrs Weatherbyby, and also to Stubber.

It would be useless Interfering, papa
she said. ' Messrs Weatherbyby will not
strike Damocles out of his engagements
for anybody but myself ; and now I have
told Stubber the horse Is to go to Epsom,
you may depend upon It he will go. You
will all thank me for It afterwards, and
you, papa, as much as anybody.'

Very kind of you to take care of our
reputations, my dear,' said Miss Bramton ;
but people are not so forgiving, unless
they have some personal Interest In mak-nor
friends ao^aln.'

I don't understand you,' rejoined Lucy.

Oh, yes, you do,' said Miss Bramton.
You know very well that If you had not
seen something of Captain Cuxwold at
Cairo, you would not have passed over
the insult offered to )our family.'

Miss Bramton had taken care, in the
interim between Cuxwold's visit and the
Derby week, to plant several such pin-pricks
: but that did not prevent her, anymore
than the rest of the family, from
going up to town for the great race, and
taking advantage of the capital box in the
grand-stand which Lucy had commissioned
Alec Flood to procure for them. So, in
spite of the family jars which had preceded
it, when the saddling-bell rang for
the Derby, the Bramtons were all thereto
see.

The contest itself proved as prosaic an
affair as ever was witnessed for the o^reat
race of the world. Damocles got well off,
and always held a good place ; got safely
round Tattenham Corner, and when, fairly
in the straight, his jockey brought him to
the front, the battle seemed won. It was
not, however, destined to be quite so hollow
a victory as it then looked, for the horse
was called upon to stall off two determined
challenges between the half distance and
the winning-post. But he ran the longest,

and eventually won very cleverly by a good
length.

There was an ominous silence in the
ring, which proclaimed that that fraternity,
as a body, were no winners by the result.
Not that they will not, even when losers,
often cheer a popular owner's triumph.
But in this case Mr John Bramton was
unknown to them. They only knew that
he did not bet, and that the winner had,
for some inscrutable reasons, been played
great pranks with in the betting. But a
cheer did break out at last, and what gave
rise to it was this. It was suddenly
remembered that though the horse figured
in the card as the property of Mr Stubber
he really belonged to Miss Lucy
Bramton ; and then, as Stubber proudly
led his chancre in. there burst forth a ringing
cheer for the first lady who had ever
carried off the Blue Ribbon of the turf.

As for Lucy, she witnessed the race
with mixed feelings. She was glad her
horse had won. She was glad to think
that Knightshayes was rescued from impatient

creditors. Jack Cuxwold might
never care for her, but he could never forget
in days to come that he owed house
and lands almost to her. And then the
something bitter,' of a peculiarly feminine
nature, was mingled in the cup of her
triumph. They were such ugly colours.
She felt quite sure that all the ladies of her
acquaintance, when they congratulated her,
would supplement it with the exclamation
of ' What a hideous jacket ! Do, pray.
Miss Bramton, change your colours for
something prettier.' She couldn't explain
that, though urged not to do so, on the
ground that changing her colours meant
changing her luck, she had fully determined
to adopt some prettier combination, but
that her feeling for her poor Uncle Dick
prevented it. She knew, had he lived,
how proud he would have been to see his
old racing banner first pass the post on the
Derby day. One person appeared in the
box to tender his congratulations, whom
Lucy was very glad to see, and that was
Alec Flood.

Did you hear them cheer you ? ' he
observed, the first congratulations over.

But they always do that at the Derby,
don't they ? '

Generally,' he rejoined ; ' but on this
occasion they were cheering you personally,
as the only lady who has ever won it.'

Lucy laughed merrily, as she rejoined, —

I had no idea I was rendering myself
famous.'

Yes, you will find plenty about yourself
in the papers for the next two or three days.'

And Lord Ranksborow.'^' inquired Lucy,
in a low whisper.

You have saved him. He has won an
enormous stakes You see, he never laid
any of his money off It wasn't worth while.
It was a case of neck or nothing. And as
for Mr Stubber, it's the proudest moment
of his life. I've just been told that he is
in the trainers' stand, distributing unlimited
champagne to everybody who likes to call

No such betting was possible in '84 and '85, lout
twenty years ago yearling books were not uncommon
20,000 to 300 the recognised bet.

for it. But I must be off now. Do you
stay in town, or are you going back to
Temple Rising ?'

We shall remain in town for the next
month or six weeks,' replied Lucy, ' and
then eo home again.'

And Alec Flood, having elicited the information
which he had pledged himself to
obtain, shook hands with the Bramtons, and
departed.

Alec had promised Jack to discover the
intentions of the family about returning to
Temple Rising.

There were two other spectators who had
looked on at the race with feverish interest.
These were the Earl of Ranksborow and
Jack. Clad in deep mourning, for it was
only some six or seven weeks since he had
laid his eldest son in the grave, the Earl
had taken up a retired position, and rather
shrank from recognition. He had gambled
boldly many a time, indeed had been a
plunger from the days of his youth up, but
this was his Bosworth field. Like the crookbacked
Richard, he had set his crown upon

the die, and, by heavens, it had come off!
He had won such a sum of money as, even
in the days of heavy betting, had rarely been
taken out of the Ring. Jack had looked
on by his side, and personally won a mere
trifle on the race ; but he knew, nobody
better, what the victory of Damocles meant.
He knew that Knightshayes was saved ;
and though quite aware that many people
would prophesy that the Earl would never
receive his money, — that he had fairly broke
the Ring, and could not expect it, Jack
knew better. He knew quite enough about
racing to know how often that had been
said falsely, — that the Ring, as a body, always
settled, and that, though here and
there a man might fail temporarily to meet
his liabilities, as a rule they were more to
be depended on than most business men.
What puzzled Jack most was when and how
he was next to meet Lucy Bramton '^. He
was bound to call and thank her as soon ashe
possibly could. No man more thoroughly
recognised the great obligation under which
he lay to her ; but he felt that he should

VOL. III. p

meet her on somewhat different grounds
this time. And then he wondered how she
would receive him. Surely she must have
some kind of feeling for him, or she would
never have condoned his brother's imprudent
speech. He did not want the girl for
her money, although, like any other man of
the world, he could not be blind to the advantages
it brought with it. Till the victory of
Damocles, if he married, that was a sine qua
non. Now, though highly desirable, it was
no longer a necessity. That the Ranks-brow
peerage could still stand much buttressing
in that respect, he was quite aware ^
but before the Derby, it had looked like
crumbling to the ground.

When he met Alec Flood that evening
at the Heliotrope, and heard his report, he
resolved, at all events, to call on the Britons
without delay, and he thought it expedient,
in the first instance, to write a note
and request permission to do so.

Nothing succeeds like success.'
And when the Bramtons found themselves
generally congratulated, and made a fuss

with on having won the Derby, they began
upon the whole to think perhaps after all
that Lucy had acted rightly, and to enlarge
upon charity towards their neighbours, and
the not carrying of animosities beyond the
grave. John Bramton indeed found himself
quite a man of importance, and much
to his astonishment, was more than once
complimented upon the way he had outmanoeuvred
a crew of blackness, who had
intended putting his horse hors de combat,
by pretending to chime in with their plans.
John Bramton didn't quite understand what
they meant, but he did understand that on
this subject silence was discretion, and discovered
that an expressive wink was a rejoinder
suitable to the occasion, which usually
sent the speaker away like a man who had
solved an abstruse conundrum. As for Lucy
Bramton, nothing puzzled her more than the
enormous number of letters that followed her
Epsom triumph. The begging letters that
poured in upon her came like a heavy snowstorm,
and would have made a considerable
hole even in the Earl of Ranksborow's winnings.

As Lucy said, * I had no idea of the
obligations of winning the Derby. It seems
a fourth of the churches in England are out
of repair, and look to me to assist in their
restoration, while as for the widows, orphans,
and gentlemen of university education who
'* are in want of temporary assistance to
enable them to make a fresh start in life,"
their name is legion, and I am sure the
stakes for the Derby would never suffice
to set them on their legs.'

Not only with John Bramton, but through
the whole family, a decided reaction had set
in in favour of Lucy's conduct. The thing
was done now, for good or for evil, and Matilda
Bramton saw that it was decidedly
advisable to make the best of it. If she
was a little sharp in her temper, Miss Brandon
was wise in her generation. She had
had bitter provocation, and certainly would
have averred herself had the control of
Damocles rested with her ; while the way
Lucy behaved at the finish strengthened
her suspicions that there was a tacit understanding
between her and Jack Cuxvvold.
Matilda was very fond of her sister, and a
worldly-minded young woman to boot, and
was not at all insensible to the social advantage

of having a sister who, in due course,
would become the Countess of Ranksborow.
She accordingly gave the word to Sir Kenneth,
and though that somewhat narrow-minded
baronet was wont to be implacable
in his animosities, yet he had by this time
discovered that Vxs france had a will of her
own. Add to which, it was no use protesting
against accomplished facts, and therefore
the baronet was quite content to let
bygones be bygones ; indeed, there was
open speculation in the family as to whether
the Knightshayes people would make overtures
of reconciliation. Lucy, of course, was
constantly appealed to on that point ; she
declined to give any opinion, until one
morning at breakfast she remarked casually


Captain Cuxwold has written me a line
that he will call here at three o'clock this
afternoon.'

Well, I think,' said Mr Bramton a little
pompously, ' he might have sent that information
to me.'

Don't be a goose, you dear old papa !' exclaimed

Matilda, resolved to be thoroughly
sisterly, at all events ; ' he wants to see
Lucy in the first place, to thank her. All
the world knows now it's her horse, and no
one knows better than Captain Cuxwold
that he is indebted to Lucy for Damocles
going to Epsom.'

I think,' said Lucy, ' he will want to see
you all ; but perhaps I had better see him
in the first place.'

And so it was settled, as so many of our
social comedies are, that when Captain
Cuxwold called, Lucy should receive him,
and that the family should drop in promiscuously,
as if unaware that there was
anybody particular in the drawing-room.

True to his time. Jack made his appearance
in Stanhope Place, where the Britons
had rented a house for the remainder
of the season. Lucy rose to welcome him.
As Jack shook hands, he congratulated heron
her success.

Not,' he continued, ' that my congratulations
are worth having, for they can but
sound thoroughly selfish in your ears.'

Hush ! ' replied the girl ; ' no more of
that. I was only too glad to pay service
for service.'

You saved us from ruin,' replied Jack,
in a low voice, ' and no thanks I can express
are adequate — '

Stop ! ' she interrupted, a little imperiously
; ' I won't listen to another word of
thanks. It is quite understood between
us, if you have it in your power to do me a
good turn, you will. Well, perhaps I shall
ask you some day. In the first place, I
shall expect you to make friends with my
people. You have never seen them as yet,
remember.'

But that I shall hope to do now,' said
Cuxwold.

Now,' she continued, ' sit down and tell
me all about yourself. Mr Flood tells me
you led a life of wonderful adventure in
the Soudan, and that your escape from
the Arabs was a most ludicrous stratagem.
I want to hear all about it.'

Once more Jack found himself recounting
how he had been picked up for dead by

JO

the Halawins ; how he eventually laughed
at the beard of Mohammed Sebekh ; and
if he had said nothing about the episode
of Zelne at Knightshayes, it was still less
likely he would allude to it in Stanhope
Place. By the time he had finished, the
family had gradually sauntered into the
room, and Jack was rapidly on excellent
terms with all of them, with, perhaps, the
exception of Sir Kenneth, who being blessed
with a very inexpensive disposition, took, as
his friends said, ' 3. deal of knowing.'

A few days afterwards the Earl of Ranks-brow
called, and expressed his great regret
for all that had occurred, and the reconciliation
was general, although the peer rather
winced when John Bramton, with a wink
and a chuckle, said, —

'I say, my lord, you'd have bought a
cheap horse from me if you had got Damocles
on your terms that day you first came
over to Temple Rising.'

Both the Ranksborows and the Bramtons
still lingered on in town till far into July,
and by that time there were very few concerned

who had not quite made up their
minds about what would be the end of the
Damocles-Derby, as far as Jack and Lucy
Bramton were concerned. Matilda said she
had guessed it, before she ever set eyes on
the Lancer. And as for the Ladies Cuckold,
they were quite aware it was impending,
and thought it would all do very nicely.
This was just as well, for Jack was given
to going his own way, whether his family
liked it or no.

One evening in July, when the trees in
Hyde Park were clothed in their fullest foliage,
when not a breath was stirring, and
the moon flooded the whole town with her
queenly light, Lucy and Jack stood out on
the balcony in Stanhope Place, and gazed
on, perhaps, the most picturesque park in
England. They had lingered in town far
longer than they had intended, these two
families, for was there not once again gold
galore in the coffers of the spendthrift house
of Ranksborow ? while thrifty John Brandon,
had he not always a warm balance at his
bankers ? There had been merry days at

Ascot, where the gentlemen had bet only to
amuse themselves, and not with the feverish
thirst of gambling; afternoons at buckingham
; dinners at Richmond, and many
a pleasant garden-party, both in and out of
the metropolis ; but now it was all to come
to an end, and both families were about to
wend their way back to Barkshire. Jack
had never spoken outright, nor did it seem
to occur to anybody, even including Lucy,
that there was any necessity for his doing so.

If a thorough understanding did not
exist between those two, well then appearances
can never be relied on again ; but
this evening, as they stood looking over
the park from the Bayswater Road end of
Stanhope Place, it did occur to Jack that
the tacit engagement existing between
them ought to be properly formulated.

What a jolly season it has been,' he observed.
' If I live to be a hundred, I shall
never expect to live two such months again.
It only wants one thing more ; you know
what I mean, Lucy .^ Once more I'm a
beggar. I am begging this time more

earnestly than I have ever done yet. You
know what I would ask. Will you give me
this?' and as he spoke, Jack imprisoned
Lucy's little hand within his own.

The girl looked straight out at the
moonlight for a minute or two before she
answered, and then said, —

Yes, Jack, if you're quite sure you want
it, it's yours.'

Jack's arm stole round her waist, and as
his lips met hers, I think he felt that the
London season had no further gift to shower
on his head.

As for Mr Napper, he escaped better than
he deserved to do. Mr Pecker, having ascertained
that Tom Robbins was an arrant
impostor, and also that Mr Napper was
really nothing but an understrapper in the
firm he pretended to represent, had not
deemed it worth while to expose him to
his employers. And as for Tom Robbins,
to the end of his days he enjoyed a certain
celebrity amongst his fellows as having,
in the horse's most up and down days,

positively maintained that Damocles would
win the Derby. It was two or three years
afterwards that the Earl told Skinner, on
one of his periodical visits to Knight-shades,
the real history of that famous
Derby, and how very much Lady Dartree
had had finally to say to it.

The sagacious commissioner shook his
head as he replied, —

Ah ! my lord, ladies shouldn't be allowed
to own racehorses — the Jockey Club ought
to see to it. They are too emotional, too
impulsive. What a business this Damocles
was, — puzzled the cleverest men in the
Ring ; and the grandest cotip I ever planned
was as near as possible bowled over because
a young man was overheard to make
a rude remark about a young woman, instead
of asking her to marry him.'

Anyone that has read the numerous narratives
of the Soudan campaign, and studied
the maps, must come to the conclusion that
the advance from Korti was admirably
planned, and infinitely superior to that from
Suakim and Berber, advocated by Gordon.

That it was too late, was due to the
miserable vacillation of a Government
that reckoned party and politics of more
account than human life or the honour
of their country.

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

■■11

3 0112 042045218
