mm

I

8*1 £

^^-,:i

Marlborough Hall

Boroughbridge



i

II E> Ray

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



5m2h

Y.i



VOL. I.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hardlinesnovel01smar

| llobeL

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

Breeze Langton," u SOCIAL SINNERS," ; ' THE GREAT TONTINE,

AT FAULT," ETC. ETC.

Of all the barbarous middle ages. that
Which is most barbarous is the middle age
Of man ; it is — I really scarce know what ;
But when we hover between fool and sage,
And don't know justly what we would be at —
A period something like a printed page,
Black letter upon foolscap, while our hair
Grows grizzled, and we are not what we were."

The greatest miracle of love is the reformation of a coquette.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. I.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL,

Limited.

1883.

[All Rights reserved.]

CLAY AND TAYLOR. PRINTERS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

"^ PAGE

THE CID . . . . . . 1

I

CHAPTER II.
MRS. Harrington's Garden-party . . 27

CHAPTER III. •
SMOKE WREATHS . . . . . 52

CHAPTER IV.
<TCk DINNER AT THE FIRS . . . . 78

CHAPTER V.

THE NOMINATIONS FOR THE CUP . . 103

CHAPTER VI.

AT THE LIGHT HORSEMAN . . . 129

CHAPTER VII.
Ascham BOG

CHAPTER XL

THE OBJECTION

Page



CHAPTER VIII.

A SUBLIME SACRIFICE . . . . 177

CHAPTER IX.

Islam THE PROPHET . . . . 202

CHATTER X.
THE RACE . . . . . 227



CHAPTER I.

THE CID.

York ! Most of us know the pleasant,
dreamy old northern capital on the banks of
the Ouse, with its quaint, narrow streets,
lofty battlements, massive gates, and
grand old cathedral. Except London itself,
there is not a town in England that can
conjure up so many memories of the past.
Stroll home from the Knavesmire in August,
and muse over the famous equine battles
that have been fought out over that deadly
galloping course for a half-trained one ; we
remember the scene when the mighty Blair

YOL. I. B

Athol went down there before a commoner,
and caused the hearts of his St. Leger backers
to sink into their very boots. As we rise
the Mount fancy carries us back a century,
and we picture to ourselves the feeling of
exultation with which the travellers from
the metropolis must have viewed the pinnacles
of the Minster, and realized that their
three days' journey was safely sped, despite
accident of flood and field or reckless assault
of highwayman. As Micklegate Bar comes
before us it is hard not to recall the terrible
rout of Marston Moor, and the scene
of slaughter and confusion which occurred
at the great southern gate of the city, and
as we pass beneath the massive archway
the grim remembrance of the display of
heads on its summit which so speedily
followed shoots athwart our brain, and
inspires a vindictive feeling that heads
lately used to our detriment would be more
satisfactory to view there than on their
owners' shoulders.

Next to Lewis Carroll's ' Queen of Hearts,'
I have always regarded Richard III. as the
greatest of historical characters from that
one famous speech so poetically reported —

Off with his head, so much for Buckingham ! "

Henry the Eighth was very fair in this
way, and his Royal daughter, the last of
the Tutors, had a very pretty knack of
shortening men's stature in this wise also,
but they lacked the cynical brevity and
quick decision of the last scion of the House
of York.

What a wonderful old town it is ! I
could muse over it for weeks, and should
then leave with a most unhallowed desire
to dig it all up and look at those two or
three other cities that lie buried beneath it.
One looks up at the snow-white walls and
fancies the steel morions and halberds
gleaming above the parapet, and then
remembers grimly what a mess the devil's
dust, as used by modern artillery, would

B 2

make of them in these days. Rare times
must those have been when York held
command of the Great North Road, and
kept watch and ward at Booths Bar over
the restless rivers of the border on the
one side, and a vigilant eye on southern
treason from Micklegate Bar on the other.

Some thirty years ago, if you had left
the city by Fisherman, near the Cattle
Market, and made your way towards the
cavalry barracks, you would have found
shortly after clearing the city walls that the
suburb ceased. Scarcely a house occurred
till you arrived at the celebrated Light
Horseman, a roadside tavern about half way
between the city and the barracks, much
patronized by the military, and celebrated
as the place at which Turpin's Black Bess
died. I am quite aware that it is the
fashion of this day to deny that famous ride
altogether. I make answer that, in these
times of unbelief, we must remain faithful
to some of the old legends, and this I have

seen with mine own eyes performed often —
on the Surrey side. At the bend of the
road, a little after }'ou passed the Light
Horseman, lay to your right an old-fashioned
country house, its gables wreathed in ivy,
and surrounded by three or four acres of
ground prettily laid out in gardens and
pleasaunce ; the dwelling this of Julian Har-parley,
banker, who, head of a very profitable
business in the city, bore the reputation of
a strictly just and honourable man. He
stood well with all classes. He was hospitable,
reasonably free with his money, and
especially accounted fair and liberal in all
his dealings. If things had prospered with
him there was no hint of sharp practice or
of usurious interest ever [ breathed against
his name. A moderate sportsman, as every
Yorkshireman is bound to be, and a moderate
viveur, as most men were in those days,
Julian Harperley was the beau ideal of the
prosperous country banker, popular in the
city, and upon excellent terms with all the

county magnates that' resided within reasonable
distance. Julian Harperley was a
widower, and in his married life he had been
sadly unfortunate. About twenty years
previous to the commencement of his history
a Mr. Aysgarth, one of his partners, had
been thrown out of a dog-cart and killed
upon the spot. Business required that he
should have frequent interviews with the
widow, and the forlorn condition of the
sorrow stricken woman filled Julian Har-parley
's soul with pity. She was young and
she was pretty, and, as often happens, her
mourning became her wonderfully. Niobe
in sombre draperies, with Psyche, in the
shape of a little girl of five years old ?
clinging to her skirts, is undeniably attractive,
especially to men verging on middle
age. Julian Harperley was smitten with
the love fever, took heart of grace, proposed,
was accepted, and married the winsome
widow, with little Annie included. She
made him an excellent wife, and this was,

perhaps, the happiest time of his life ; but,
alas ! ere little more than a year had sped
she presented him with a son, whose birth
cost her life. She confided her little girl
to his care, whispered him a faint farewell,
and was gone, leaving the stricken man to
bear his burden as he best could.

Annie, who was six years old when her
mother died, was speedily a great solace to
him. He had always been fond of the
child, and now the little motherless thing
stole her way into his heart completely.
Her first passionate burst of grief over, and
she seemed not only to sympathize with
him in their mutual loss, but to transfer
the affection that she had borne for her
mother to Julian Harperley. She would
creep up to his side, and nestle her tiny
hand into his, until he felt impelled to lift
the little maiden on to his knee, and once
she had gained that desired position she
would be quiet as a mouse, never interfering
with his perusal of book or paper, save

by a mute caress. That as she grew up
she should become more and more to him
was only natural, and undoubtedly Julian
Harperley was the more delighted of the
twain when, her schooling finished, she
was solemnly invested with the keys, and
proclaimed mistress of "The Firs."

A tall, handsome brunette, with flashing
blue eyes, and plenty of vitality, Miss
Aysgarth had not lacked admirers during
the six years she had ruled over " The Firs,"
but no one could as yet flatter himself that
he had made any serious mark in her good
graces. Favourites she had, of course ; but
when man's vanity, as it occasionally did,
prompted one of these to believe that he
was valued above his fellows, he had been
gently but speedily made aware of his
mistake. A shrewd, clever girl, apt to
fathom people's characters pretty accurately,
and to appraise them at their fair value,
and yet as she sits there this pleasant
autumn afternoon, it may be doubted

whether in her thoughts she is not putting
a higher price on one person than he exactly
merits.

It is a very pleasant place, that flower-generated
garden in these September days —
glorious days of a fine Yorkshire autumn.
If they get their warm weather later in
the Ridings than we do down south, it
stays with them longer, and they are often
having a gorgeous time of it when we are
grimly contemplating the commencement of
winter. The soft, velvety turf was bordered
by old-fashioned shrubberies, through which
trimly-kept gravel walks meandered in the
direction of the road. Annie Aysgarth is
seated in a trim rustic summer-house, kept
with such evident care as to betoken it a
favourite place of resort. She is occupied in
piecing together some gaily-coloured bits of
silk, though with what design is not easy of
understanding. The mystery of a lady's
work is generally above masculine comprehension.
A light step on one of the

gravel-walks running down to the road
causes her to raise her head, put her work
on one side, and resume the book she had
been reading

Ah ! Annie," exclaimed the new-comer,,
as he emerged from the shrubberies, " I
thought I should very likely find you here."

Then all I can say, Harry, is, you had
no business to think anything of the kind'
replied Miss Aysgarth, laughing. " You
should know I ought to be at the Dowton's,
six miles away, but I felt idle, and so, somehow,
you see, never made a start of it."

Your besetting . sin, my dear, is this
want of energy' rejoined the new-comer,
with mock gravity. " Ever since I have
devoted my energies to the service of my
country there has been nobody to keep you
up to the mark. Two or three years back,
and I should have decided that you required
pinching, and — yes," he added, slowly,
should probably have done it."

Two or three years back," retorted

Miss Aysgarth, laughing, "you were an
unbearable schoolboy, whose ears I never
could box sufficiently hard in return for
your impertinence ; but now, sir, bear in
mind, you are an officer of dragoons,
and as a cornet of horse are expected — "

To behave as such ; quite so, Annie ;
but let's stroll up to the house. I want
to see the governor. Is he in ? "

Yes ; and how's the regiment, Harry ? '*
said Miss Aysgarth, rising, and collecting
her properties.

The regiment is getting on very well,
though the Colonel showed a painful want
of appreciation as regards my military
knowledge yesterday morning. You see,
Cis Calvert was away, so was my brother
sub, consequently the command of the troop
fell on me yesterday at our drill on the
Knavesmire, and I certainly distinguished
myself, while as for poor old Copplestone he
must have given the recording angel a hard
time, and nearly used up the ledger."

But why don't you learn your drill ? "

So I have ; but when on your first
mistake the chief goes off like a broadside of
thirty-two pounders, who is to recollect it
all % I should like to see you manage your
cross stitch with a she-martinet invoking
blessings on your head, and wondering how
such an incalculable idiot found his way
into the world. Smart commanding officer
of the old school, Copplestone must have
learnt his drill with that famous army of
Flanders, I fancy."

What is it you want to see papa
about ? " asked Miss Aysgarth, as she passed
her arm affectionately through her half-brother's.


I want him to give me another horse,"
replied the boy, for in sooth, he was little
more. A good-looking stripling of eighteen,
Harry Harperley, to his great delight and
glorification, had some six months before
the commencement of this narrative been
gazetted to a cornetcy in Her Majesty's

tli Lancers. ' He was just one of those
devil-may-care young gentlemen whom the
public schools turned out in shoals in those
days. In these times I fancy the affectation
of the nil admirer rather spoils these
frank-hearted youngsters ; but I am writing,
as may be remembered, of what has been
jestingly termed the pre-educational period,
when a knowledge of ^ the ' ologies ' was by
no means imperative.

You see," continued Harry, " we are
not allowed to hunt our first chargers, much
less race them. My second's in the school.
I must have a horse I can do as I like with.
It seems so deuced slow not to enter a horse
for the Eegimental Cup, too. I should like
to have a shy at that, though I don't
suppose I should have much chance against
either Cis Calvert or Crimes."

Major Crymes is no great friend of
yours, is he, Harry?" inquired Miss
Aysgarth a little anxiously.

No, sister mine. He's a fine horseman,

and a good fellow, no doubt, but somehow I
don't take to him. He rather snubs us
young ones, and, what's more, I don't think
the seniors care much about him either."

Well, I am glad to hear you are not
intimate with Major Crymes. I can't tell
you why. He is always pleasant and
agreeable enough when he comes here, and,
to tell the truth, Harry, talks better than
most men I meet. But he is rather cynical,
I fancy'

Can't exactly say," responded the
cornet curtly. "He is pretty good at
everything all round, when he takes the
trouble to try ; but he rarely plays cards,
billiards, or anything else ; hunting is the
one thing he goes in for, and if he gets
anything like a start he's bad to beat
to hounds, even Cis Calvert acknowledges.
But here comes the father," and as he spoke
Julian Harperley sauntered on his hack
slowly up the drive.

"swell, Harry," he exclaimed, as he

shook hands with his son, " are you going
to honour us with your company at dinner ?
No one but Annie and myself to-night.
We shall feel proud at the mess being
thrown over on our account."

"No, father, I'll not sail under false
colours. I am come to dine, but I am
come begging, to boot."

Ah, w T ell ! " replied Julian Harperley,
laughing, " keep the petition till after
dinner. Men's purse - strings, like their
tongues, loosen more readily when that
meal has been satisfactorily accomplished.
If your request be not out of all bounds,
and the housekeeper has not failed in her
duties, I dare say you'll go back to barracks
happy."

As the three gathered round the fire
after dinner, Mr. Harperley pushed the
claret across to his son, and said, " Now,
Harry, what is it ? "

Well, the fact is, I want you to buy
me another horse. I have only one I can

hunt, you know, and two will be little
enough to begin the season with."

I make no objection to that ; I always
intended to 'give you a third. There will,
I am afraid, be some trouble in getting
hold of what you want just now. There
are a good many men wanting hunters at
this season of the year always."

"Ah, but I happen to know of one.
You know Mappin, the dealer, who has
the farm just off the old North road ? I
was out at his place the other day with
Cis Calvert to look at a horse called The
Cid — a clipper, a dark iron grey, with
black points. Such a fencer, for we had
him out, and Cis schooled him a bit. Ashe
said, he's good enough to win the
Regimental Cup."

But if we bid for this paragon we shall
be interfering with Captain Calvert, surely."

No, no, father ; You know I wouldn't
do that. Cis liked the horse, and admired
him immensely ; but he said he couldn't

afford him. He bought an old screw fora
trifle, and said he must see as much of the
fun as he could with that on the off days."

It strikes me, Master Harry, I shall
perhaps find the same objection to this
grey that Captain Calvert did ; the price
is beyond me. What is Mappin asking ? "

Two hundred," replied Harry, " but he
is well worth it."

It's a stifiish figure, but I'll ride out
there tomorrow afternoon after I get away
from the bank, and if I am as much impressed
with the horse as you and Captain
Calvert seem to have been, I'll see if
Mappin and I can deal."

"Hurrah!" exclaimed Harry. " We'll
have the Eegimental Cup on the sideboard
before Christmas," and it was in a very
jubilant frame of mind that he wended his
way back to barracks shortly afterwards.

You have sent Harry to bed in the
seventh heaven," said Miss Aysgarth, laughing,
as she bade her father good night.

VOL. I. C

I always meant to give the boy another
horse, as I said before, but they're always
a little difficult to pick up when you want
them. However, he seems to have found
one for himself, so that problem's solved.
Good night, my dear."

The following afternoon saw Julian Har-parley
riding leisurely along the North
road, on his way to Mr. Mappin's, the
dealer. That gentleman received him
cordially, for the banker was an old and
valued customer. Few men are more
keenly alive to the infinite superiority of
a cheque at sight to a bill at three months
than those connected with the horse trade.
Mr. Harperley's draft was as good as banknotes
; no wonder that he stood high in
Mr. Mappin's regard.

Very glad, indeed, to see you, sir,"
said the dealer, as raising his hat he
emerged from a small counting-house in
the yard, and advanced to welcome his
visitor. "Here, Sam! take this gentleman's

horse. You'll come in and have a
glass of sherry and a biscuit, Mr. Harper-ley,
before having a look round. I don't
suppose you want one, but you like to
look at a good horse, I know. I've one or
two just now I'd like you to see."

Mr. Mappin inhabited a comfortable
farm-house at Askham, about four miles
from York — a low, one-storied dwelling,
with thatched, sharp-pointed gables and
latticed windows ; roomy and commodious
within, and boasting floors and staircase
of blackest oak. The parlour, too, was
wainscoted with the same material, polished
till the panels reflected the gleam
of fire or candle almost like looking-glasses.
Adjoining the house was a large yard, surrounded
on three sides by stabling. On
the fourth was a large paddock, in the
midst of which leaping bars and other
artificial fences had been set up, while
around the margin of the field a miniature
steeple-chase course had been laid out.

c 2

Mr. Mappin was a well-known character
for many miles round York. A lithe, why
man of medium height, always scrupulously
neat and quiet in his attire and manner,
you might never have suspected him of
being a horse-dealer ; but you would have
felt intuitively that he was an enthusiastic
lover of the horse, and would have felt nota
whit surprised at hearing there was do
neater seat nor lighter hand in the East or
West Biding. He had acquired a very
high reputation in his vocation ; those who
had dealings with him were wont to speak
of him as one does of the leading magnates
of the wine trade, "You paid very dear,
but you could depend upon what you got."
He bought of course horses of all kinds, but
his dealings were principally in connection
with high class animals, and if a man
wanted to pick up a good hunter in a
hurry, and was good to write a stiffish
cheque for the same, the sporting community
round the metropolis of the north

would have said unanimously, " Go to
Mappin." Another thing, too, that tended
much to the horse-dealer's popularity was
the pertinacity with which he adhered to
his favourite maxim — " Have the best of
its kind, or don't have it at all." His wines
and cigars were thoroughly in accordance
with this axiom, and when he modestly
asked a customer to share " his bit of fish
and mutton," the salmon was fresh from the
Ouse, and the mutton was four-year-old
Scotch. Mr. Mappin was catholic in his
hospitality, but at the same time he had alla
Yorkshireman's keen eye for the main
chance, and would laughingly say if reference
was made to his prodigality, " Pooh !
man, we never deal in the North without
the luck-penny,' and a dinner or two is
no great discount. That the wine is the
best I can buy is matter of calculation ;
bad liquor breeds bitterness and mistrust,
and might cost me many a customer."

Well, Mappin," said the banker, after

he had deliberately disposed of a glass of
Amontillado, "I hear you have a nicish
hunter on hand — an iron grey, with black
points. I have heard so much of him that
I thought I'd just ride round and take a
look at him."

Ah ! it'd be Mr. Harry told you about
him. Yes, 'tis a nice horse, but I have one
would suit him quite as well for less money.
That grey, Mr. Harperley, can carry fourteen
stone to hounds, and Mr. Harry don't
as yet want one within twenty-eight
pounds of that. Were you thinking of
buying for him, sir ? "

I am thinking no more at present,"
replied the banker laughing, " than that I
should like to see this grey horse."

Very good," replied Mr. Mappin.
Try one of these cigars. If you'll excuse
me for one moment I'll just tell the lads
to bring him and two others down to the
paddock. See 'em on the grass, sir, and
you see what they are, and what they can

do. These are all clever, put 'em where
you like."

A few minutes more, and Mr. Harperley
and the dealer were leisurely strolling
through the paddock.

You can tell a horse very fairly here,"
observed Mr. Mappin ; "if there is nothing
very big the jumps are of all sorts, and one
that will school freely here in cold blood
will cover anything his rider has nerve
to put him at when hounds are running.
If he don't, the odds are it's the man's
fault ; but here come the nags."

Mr. Harperley was fain to admit that the
three horses that walked slowly past them
in Indian file were all of good class ; there
was quality and breeding about every one
of them, but there could be little doubt
that

The pick of the basket, the show of the shop "
was that grand iron grey with black points.
Standing sixteen hands, with plenty of
substance, he looked a weight-carrier allover.

With those loins and quarters an
extra stone or so should make little difference
to him, and with thighs let down like
that he was bound to gallop. Mr. Harper-ley
fell almost as much in love with the
horse as his son, and as he walked up to
him and patted his neck, and looked at the
small lean head and mild steady eye, he
determined if the grey could only jump,
and the price was not outrageous, that the
graceless cornet should have the wish of his
heart, and become the proud possessor of
The Cid. But the banker had bought
many a horse of Mr. Mappin, and was
conversant with the wiles of that eminent
dealer, and he noticed that the head lad of
the establishment, the one usually employed
to show off a horse, was riding not The Cid
but a brown.

I see you have got Sam up on the
brown ; the grey was the horse, remember,
I particularly wished to see."

"Yes, sir, but The Cid don't want any

showing off, and I wanted you to see that
brow T n horse. He'd just suit Mr. Harry.
Take horn down over the hurdles, Sam, and
brings him back over the water. Sweet,
handy horse, Mr. Harperley, he'd carry a
lady well."

In Sam's experienced hands the brown
acquitted himself admirably, but the banker
was totally unmoved by his performance.

Let me see The Cid, I think you called
him, Mappin. When a man gets a horse
like that in his eye, it's useless to suppose
he'll look at another."

Excuse me, sir, but though he can
jump like a bird, I don't like risking a
valuable horse like that over bars, hurdles,
or water. It isn't business."

"Not business!" rejoined the banker in
astonishment. "why, you don't suppose
we buy horses without to some extent testing
their capabilities. You never made such an
objection before. However, we know each
other. I will take your guarantee that

he's a made hunter. Now, name his
price."

"I'm very sorry, Mr. Harperley, more
especially as you have taken such a fancy
to the horse, but he's not for sale, sir. I
parted with him this morning."

"The deuce you did! What, I'm too
late, am I ? I suppose Captain Calvert
bought him ? "

No, he looked at him, but didn't take
him. I sold him to Major Crymes."

CHAPTEE II.

MRS. CHARRLN'GTOX's Garden-party.

There was, perhaps, in the days of which
I am writing, no more prominent lady
mixing in the society of York and its
vicinity than Mrs. Charrington. A slight
mist hung over her antecedents, but she
was reputed to have been the daughter of
some Indian official ; at all events, Charrington,
a cadet, of a well-known county
family, who had been despatched by his
friends to shake the pagoda tree, while
the golden pippins still hung fairly thick
upon its branches, had acquired both his
wife and his fortune in the East. He was
reputed to have had the ruling of a large

tract of country, and to have squeezed
those committed to his charge in somewhat
unorthodox fashion. However, nobody
could speak very clearly upon that point ;
communication between our Eastern Empire
and home at that time was tedious and
uncertain, and it was possible to deal out
a good deal of arbitrary legislation without
anybody in England being a bit the wiser.
This, at all events, was certain, that ten
years ago Robert Charrington had come
back to his native country with a liberal
pension, a very comfortable private fortune,
and a tall, good-looking wife, some score of
years his junior.

Mrs. Charrington had passed as a beauty
in India, and it was not likely that she
would renounce such pretensions on making
her debut in Yorkshire. Very much the
reverse. If not quite a beauty, she was
at all events a fine woman, and still adhered
pertinaciously to the sceptre she had
claimed on her first arrival in the country.

She was fairly popular. She had plenty
of energy and go, and though much addicted
to flirtation, her liaisons were all of
the most innocent description, and if sometimes
evoking sarcastic remarks from her
sisters, had never drawn forth the stern
condemnation of the veteran brigade. Mrs.
Charrington had, unfortunately, one weakness
which had more than once brought her
into hot water. That she did not speak the
exact truth was nothing ; very few of us
do. It was not that she indulged in
malicious representation ; she never meant
any harm, nor had she any design of
making mischief, but she was naturally a
talkative woman. She had picked up that
habit of continually discussing her neighbour's
affairs so easily acquired in an Indian
cantonment or country town, and she had
a natural talent for embroidering. Her
too lively imagination impelled her always
to embellish such little histories as she
might have to recount, and such delicate

enlargement of course at times puts a
very different complexion on affairs, causing
some perfectly innocent incident to assume
sombre hues, and suggesting a very background
of darkness.

Still, despite madam's treacherous tongue,
and her husband's arbitrary manner, the
Harrington were fairly popular. They
kept a good house, about five miles from
the city, entertained liberally, and, while
Mr. Charrington, a noted pig-sticker and
shikaree in his Indian days, could be relied
on to promote all matters of sport in the
neighbourhood, his wife was equally to be
depended on as regarded balls, picnics,
archery, &c. Mrs. Charrington has taken
advantage of the fine autumn weather to
issue invitations for a garden-party and
dance. In these days lawn tennis would
probably have taken the place of dancing,
as in a previous generation the madness of
croquet would have been the main object
of such a gathering, but in fifty two such

things were not, and really an you disported
not in valse, schottische, or polka there was
nothing but bowls or sheer undisguised
flirtation left w T with which to while away the
time.

Mrs. Charrington's invitations had been
numerous. It was currently reported that
all the neighbourhood would be there, and
as we know only let that rumour get about,
and it fulfils its own prophecy just as a
w T whisper of difficulty about obtaining cards
or tickets for anything leads to every
description of machination to procure them.

A showy, handsome woman looks Mrs.
Charrington, as she receives her guests ;
though inclining to embonpoint, she still
retains a good, if well - developed figure ;
the delicate bloom of her complexion may
have vanished, and her face is, perhaps,
some T hat florid ; but the artifices of the
toilet, and a profusion of fair hair, soften
the slight encroachments of time, and she
may still assert herself as a beauty, albeit

a somewhat full-blown one. The neighbourhood
has gathered in force ; there are
most of the dignitaries of the cathedral,
besides a strong muster of the minor clerical
lights of the city, the country people within
a radius of some miles, to say nothing of
that mysterious, but inevitable cohort of
strangers who are brought, as a rule, by
those least entitled to claim the privilege.
Byculla Grange had the mutation of being
a pleasant house, and the hostess was
famous, not only for knowing how such
festivities should be conducted, but for
possessing the subtle art of imparting goto
anything of the kind she took in hand.
At present she is radiant with smiles, for
has she not been vouchsafed a glorious day
for her party ? and who that ever dabbled
in out-of-door entertainment can fail to
recall how animal spirits at such times are
regulated by the barometer.

When Robert Charrington elected to
settle in his native county he naturally

cast about for a residence. To find such
a home as met the requirements of himself
and Mrs. Charring-ton, accustomed to the
ample house room of India, proved difficult.
He at last solved the question by
the purchase of Topover Grange, a farm
of some couple of hundred acres, and
pulling down the old farm-house, proceeded
to erect on his new acquisition a mansion
in accordance with the somewhat Eastern
tastes of himself and his wife. The new
building might be somewhat irregular in
elevation, as Mr. Charrington insisted on
the designs being carried out more in
accordance with his own views than those
of his architect, but the interior was
exceedingly comfortable, and it boasted
what in those days was by no means
common, a luxurious smoking-room. Dr.
Dasent in his Annals of an Eventful Life
has drawn a very amusing comparison
between the early Christians and the early
smokers, recalling the times when the

VOL. I. D

latter sacrificed to the shrine of their
nicotian goddess in saddle-rooms, in outhouses,
or it might be late at night in
deserted kitchens, even as the early
Christians had worshipped in caverns,
ruins, &c., and farther carries on an analogy
D y pointing out what sumptuous
temples are now dedicated to the followers
of both the creed and the custom. But
when Robert Charrington's new house was
erected smoking was still pursued furtively,
very few country houses boasted a smoking-room,
and not even some London clubs.
"When the Charringtons inaugurated their
new home by a series of dinners, offering
beds as well to their more distant guests,
Topover Grange was pronounced perfect,
and an invitation thereto a thing by no
means to be neglected. But there it was ;
that was the wrinkle in the rose leaves,
that was the spectre in the Elysian fields,
the fatal flaw in the paradise. " Topover
Grange ! " as Mrs. Harrington said, " it

'made her feel like a farmer's wife. It
was impossible," she declared, " to live ina
place called Topover Grange." In vain
did Robert Charrington curtly tell his
better half not to make herself ridiculous,
he might have known better than to provoke
such a contest. If he had ruled
several thousands of Hindoo in right
royally despotic fashion, he might have
remembered he had never been able to
make the wife of his bosom obey. He
might be arbitrary, but Mrs. Charrington
was pertinacious. They did not often
differ, but when they did it invariably
ended in the lady obtaining her own way,
and such was the case in this instance.
Topover Grange, as a name, being doomed,
it became necessary to christen it, and
in memory of many pleasant days passed
at the famous Bombay Club, Robert Charrington
named his place Byculla Grange.
I don't think to people generally the new
nomenclature conveyed much meaning, nor

did they as a rule deem it an improvement,
but to Mrs. Charrington, with her
Indian recollections, Byculla Grange conveyed
the idea of much magnificence.

"I am delighted to see you, Annie,"
exclaimed Mrs. Charrington, as she shook
hands with Miss Aysgarth. "I always
pride myself upon collecting all the beauty
of the country at my gatherings, you know,
and in that simple muslin and straw hat
you look as if you had stepped out of
a Watteau picture. Yes, there's nothing
like simplicity, my clear, as long as you
can stand it ; but, alas ! the time comes
when we must dress," and the speaker
glanced down at her own rich toilette with
palpable satisfaction. "How do you do,
Mr. Harperley, and where is Harry ? "

Harry will be here very shortly. He
is to come with some of his brother officers.
You forget that he is a dragoon now."

"Ah, to be sure, it had slipped my
memory. We must hardly expect him yet.

The Lancers are always so shamefully

late."

Let me, in my character of the advanced

guard, apologize for them," said a tall, dark,

good-looking man, who smilingly advanced

to do reverence to his hostess ; " there hasn't

been witnessed, Mrs. Charrington, such hard

riding since 'the good news was brought

from Ghent ' long since —

I sprang to the stirrup and Doris and lie ;
I galloped, Dirk galloped, we galloped all three.'

There's severe spurring to be seen between
Byculla Grange and the barracks just now,
believe me."

Ever ready with an excuse, Major
Crymes," retorted the lady, as she stretched
forth her hand, " so ready, indeed, that had
I dreamt you were within ear-shot I'd never
have ventured the accusation."

Hardly a fair charge that, Miss Ays-
garth, is it?" replied the dragoon. "I
made no excuse. I simply grovelled on my
knees and begged pardon."

There's very little of that about you,' r
rejoined Mrs. Charrington, drily; "but now
you are here you must do your duty. Take
Miss Aysgarth, and get her some tea,
please."

With pleasure," replied Crymes. " One
moment, Mrs. Charrington, first — " and he
murmured something in such low tones that
only the hostess could catch it.

Yes," she replied, with a nod, delighted.
Only you must wait till I am ready.
Come for me when you see me a little
disengaged."

Major Crymes bowed, and offered his arm
to Miss Aysgarth. There was no reason
why he should drop his voice in speaking
to Mrs. Charrington. He had only asked
her to give him a dance, but this was a
way Horace Crymes had, and more than
one woman had found herself on confidential
terms with the Major without in the least
intending it. He was one of those men to
whom love-making seems a necessity, and

he had left 'sir been' behind him upon
more than one occasion, when too credulous
maidens had believed those low-toned whispers
meant so much more than the actual
words conveyed, and that the cool man of
the world by their side was swayed by a
genuine passion instead of merely seeking
amusement.

"Are you fond of hunting, Miss Ays-
garth ? " asked the Major, having duly
provided the young lady with some tea.
We shall be very soon beginning now
in earnest."

I am fond of it in my way, but I don't
ride to hounds, if that is what you mean.
I enjoy all the fun of a meet as much as
any girl in the county, but I don't tax my
male friends to either pilot or take care of
me afterwards. I generally join what my
brother irreverently calls 'the trotting
brigade ' for a while, and when the hounds
go right away, come home."

"You have, perhaps, strong opinions on

the subject, and don't think it right that
ladies should ride."

No, indeed, Major Crymes," laughed
Miss Aysgarth merrily. " Fancy a Yorkshire
girl seeing any harm in hunting ! But
though not surprised, I feel rather sorry
just now that you are so devoted to it."

"I am very much flattered that you
should take any interest in my pursuits'
replied the dragoon ; " but why, Miss Ays-
garth, regret my weakness for fox-hunting V

Because it has led to your forestalling
Harry, and buying a grey horse that he had
set his heart upon."

That, I am afraid, is more your brother's
fault than mine. He saw [ it, as did Calvert
and others, before myself; but I never
heard any of them were in treaty for it. I
possess one virtue, Miss Aysgarth, and it's
not a very common one. I can make my
mind up at once. It has long been a
maxim of mine never to miss buying a good
horse if I have the money, and half-an-hour

after I first saw the grey I wrote a cheque
for him. If I interfered with Harperley, I
can only say I am sorry."

The Major spoke very prettily on the
subject, but showed no signs of giving up
his right to ' The Cid.' Indeed, it was
hardly to be expected that he should, and
yet Miss Aysgarth had mistily fancied that
she might do her brother good service in
this matter. She was a reasonable young
woman in the main, but was accustomed
to see men make such little sacrifices for
her sake. She did not, moreover, quite seethe
thing in its true light. Had she wanted
this horse for herself it was just possible the
Major would have resigned in her favour,
albeit, the yielding of anything he coveted
to another was a weakness Horace Crymes
was especially free from ; but the idea of
yielding his new purchase to the last-joined
cornet because his sister happened to be
good-looking would have been simply
derided had it ever crossed the Major's

brain. He admired Miss Aysgarth, and
wished to stand well with her, but nothing
further as yet. He said no more than the
truth when he boasted he could make up
his mind quickly ; he could whenever the
necessity arose, and, having done so, would
carry his determination out with ruthless
persistency.

Have you settled yet when your regimental
races are to be, Major Cryrnes ?" asked
the young lady after a short pause. " It is
whispered about that you intend to finish
up with a ball at the barracks, and in that
you know we are all much interested."

"The precise day is not fixed, but
early in December, we think, we shall
have fewer on leave before Christmas than
after. May I have the pleasure of this
dance ? "

Our valse I think, Miss Aysgarth,"
interrupted a laughing voice. " I am desperately
late I know, and don't deserve it,
but I must throw myself on your infinite

compassion, which, like the dew from
heaven, &c. Please don t punish me."

The girl hesitated for a moment, then
bowing to Chymes, she observed, " I am afraid
I am engaged to Captain Calvert." and took
the arm of the new-comer. An angry light
gleamed momentarily in the Major's eyes,
but was almost instantly succeeded by his
habitual insouciant smile, as muttering something:
about beings more fortunate on some
future occasion, he turned away.

It is, I verily believe, in the trifles of life
that we evoke the deadliest animosities. It
is astonishing how some people will brood
over an ill-timed jest at their expense,
biding the time when they can retaliate for
such pleasantry with all the patient vindictiveness
of an Indian. We forgive veritable
injuries, but we cannot get over the culprit
not having answered our letter of upbraiding.
He neglected to pen that soft word
which, lie though we should have known it
to be, would have turned away our wrath.

Unanswered letters, perhaps, plunge us into
as much hot water as anything, and yet,
when the lengthy report of a ' breach of
promise' case meets our eyes, we become
aware that there is evil in too much letter-writing.
Similarly, in the ball-room, it is
quite possible to lay the foundation of a
very healthy hatred — hatred which in the
duelling days was promptly eased by a little
blood, or it may be life, letting. In these
more polished times we cherish it, and give
more or less vent to it, according to the
strength and malignancy of our natures.

Major Crymes up to this time had no
feeling for Calvert either one way or the
other, but this little episode converted
indifference into active dislike. He was
much too practised a man of the world not
to see that Calvert had taken advantage of
being cue mieux with Miss Aysgarth to
improvise an engagement, and she had
consented to his ruse. The Major had sofar
merely regarded the young lady as a

pretty girl, and with no particular attention ;
in fact, he was at present carrying on a pretty
vigorous flirtation with Mrs. Charrington,
arid but for being thus piqued might never
have troubled his head about Miss Aysgarth.
Horace Crymes was a man whom difficulties
always stimulated — a man for whom grapes
out of reach, or forbidden fruit, had special
attractions, and the quiet way in which, to
use his own phrase, f he had been locked
out of that dance ' put two ideas into his
head, to wit, a determination to be quits
with Cis Calvert in some fashion, and that
it was possible, perhaps, to accomplish that
through the medium of Miss Aysgarth.

I hope you will pardon my impertinence,"
said Cis Calvert to his companion
as they took their place amongst the walters,
but I wanted to talk to you so much, that
I risked being properly snubbed sooner than
forego the chance."

"And found me," interposed the girl
laughing, "so utterly taken aback by your

audacity or mendacity — which ought I to
call it ? — that I had not the presence of mind
to rebuke it as it deserved. "

It was very good of you," replied Cis,
"and your conscience may rest quite easy.
I don't think Crymes had any idea that I
was not really engaged to you. Let's have
another turn."

"There you mistake," rejoined Miss
Aysgarth, as she yielded to his encircling
arm. "I don't fancy Major Crymes was
in the least blinded by your bold assertion,
and shall expect to find myself in his bad
books for the future."

A matter which will not concern you
much," said Calvert.

Who knows ? " replied his partner,
smiling. " He might get me struck off
Mrs. Charrington's visiting-list. His influence
here is supposed to be paramount,
you know. Stop, there is Harry, and I
want to speak to him for a moment."

What ? to comfort him for his loss ? "

rejoined Calvert, smiling. " It is rather
rough on the "boy, but to hear him make
moan over it is too absurd. If he had
bought the horse and found it dead in
the stable next morning, he couldn't be
sorrier for himself."

But, Captain Calvert, that is just what
it represents to Harry. Papa would have
bought the grey for him, and but for the
unlucky intervention of Major Crymes the

horse would have been now in Harry's

it

stables."

And it is a nag to sorrow after, Miss
Aysgarth. I could have shed tears myself
when I saw it, and found I couldn't pay
for it ; then," continued Cis, with mock
solemnity, " I reflected in my wisdom what
a mildewed existence mine would become
if I cried because I couldn't pay people,
and what a vale of tears the British cavalry
generally would be involved in ; but, come,
let us go and comfort the bereaved one."

How dare you laugh at me ? " cried the

young lady, smiling ; " but take me across
to Harry."

Surely, Mrs. Charrington, you must
have at last finished playing hostess," murmured
the Major into that buxom lady's
ear, " and have leisure to grant the dance
you promised me ? "

Willingly. I am quite tired of making
pretty speeches. I hunger to speak ill of
my neighbours. Let us bury ourselves in
the crowd, where I may give free vent to
malice and bitterness. Ah ! yes, I will
valse, and you shall tell me all the gossip
of the country."

Ah, story, like the knife-grinder, I have
none to tell ; but that does not hinder our
dancing — indeed, when one's tongue fails it
is good policy to fall back on one's legs on
these occasions. You paired me off unluckily,
to start with."

Unluckily ! Why I sent you off with
the banker's daughter, one of the best-looking
girls in our parts, and this is your

gratitude. I am a good-natured woman,
Major Crymes, and, like certain royal ladies
one has read of, always endeavour to
provide for my admirers. If ever I did my
duty for an adorer it was to you on this
occasion. I paired you off with Julian
Harperley's heiress, what more could you
ask ? It was a piece of self-sacrifice that
should have ever remained embalmed in
your memory, if a man ever does recognize
self-sacrifice on the part of a woman."

You are making too much of it. I only
said unluckily, because the young lady and
myself were not exactly in accord ; besides,
I don't appreciate being provided for. I
prefer serving on your staff as yet. The
royal ladies you quote so glibly, remember,
only provided for an admirer when they
had satisfactorily replaced him."

"True," responded Mrs. Charrington,
with a coquettish glance, " and that is
very far from my meaning, but you
soldiers come and go, and it would be

VOL. I.

better to settle you amongst us than lose
you altogether."

There was no great danger to the pair
in this sort of flirtation. . Mrs. Charrington
had been engaged in these airy love trifling
since her school-girl days, and, despite
proverbs anent playing with fire and
pitchers going too often to the well, had not
scorched her wings as yet ; love trifling
that consisted of

"A little glow, a little shiver."

Horace Crymes on his side had passed a
life of intrigue and flirtation. No woman's
smile had quickened his pulse for many a
day, but he still, from sheer habit, let him
be where he would, was invariably engaged
in a love-affair of some kind. There are
men to whom such philandering seems a
necessity, as essential to their comfort as
tobacco, and having a similar soothing
influence on their feelings.

It is very good of you, but I had no

idea Miss Aysgarth was looked upon as an
heiress."

Of course she is. She inherits all her
mother's property, to say nothing of what
Julian Harperley may choose to leave her.
He is a wealthy man, and has only the two
of them to take care of. Annie Aysgarth
will come to her husband with her hands full."

This was a fair specimen of Mrs. Charring-ton
s embroidery. Julian Harperley's brief
married life had been long a thing of the
past when she made her appearance in
Yorkshire. She knew nothing of the late
Mrs. Aysgarth's affairs, but chose to assume
she had brought her second husband
a fortune. Mrs. Charrington, as a rule,
Invented biography for her acquaintances
sooner than confess ignorance of their
antecedents, which, as may be supposed,
led at times to some asperity and confusion ;
but a taste for gossip or the cacoethes
scribed are no more to be grappled with
than a passion for alcoholic drinks.

E 2

CHAPTEE III.

SMOKE WREATHS.

Horace Crymes could hardly be pronounced
a popular man in his regiment*
and yet beyond a cynicism, by no means
offensively obtrusive, there was nothing to
be alleged against him. He was known to
be devoted to the Turf, and believed by his
brother officers to be a heavy speculator,
but there was not a man in the corps who
talked so little about racing as the Major.
While beardless cornets discussed the
respective chances of the Derby cracks,
pronouncing judgment thereon with a confidence
proportionate to their ignorance,
Horace Crymes usually sat silent, as if the

subject had no interest for him. The most
direct appeal had never extorted more from
him than she had been told such a horse
would run well, and on the rare occasions
he had so far abandoned his habitual
reticence there had been found good reason
for what he had said. He was, as Charley
Harperley told his sister, one of those men
who are 'good all round,' and it was
whispered played very high when in
London, but he never showed the slightest
indication of a taste for gambling amongst
his comrades. He seldom touched a card,
and when to make up a rubber he sat down
to whist, seemed perfectly contented with
the usual regimental points. It was known,
too, that he had three or four horses in
training, but with these he pursued the
same policy, never entering them in any
races got up by the corps, or even by the
garrison in which he might be quartered,
but leaving them to pursue their chequered
career on country race-courses, where in

Tally-ho stakes and Goneaway Plates they
were all more or less known. The Major
had, however, one peculiarity quite sufficient
to account for his not being exactly
popular with his brother officers — he lived
his own life. He would contribute handsomely
to anything they might wish to
get up, such as balls or other festivals ;
he was courteous and on good terms with
them all, but he was intimate with none.
He went] his own way, and was rarely seen
either walking or riding with his comrades.
He was a man, moreover, about whom little
was known ; no one in the regiment could
tell anything about his friends, nor even
about his means, further than that he
seemed to spend a good bit of money. In
short, what little they did know about him
had come principally from the outside
world, for Horace Crymes was singularly
free from that every-day weakness — the
narration of his own doings. It was not
that he affected any secrecy, but he was

habitual] y reserved and silent with men.
With women it was different; beneath their
influence the frost-bound springs of his
conversation seemed to thaw, and those of
them who had known him well were wont
to observe that he was not only well read,
but could be excessively entertaining. It
seemed as if he did not consider it worth
while to exert himself to titillate masculine
understandings.

And yet people who thus judged Horace
Crymes made a great mistake. There were
few moves in his game of life that were not
the result of cool calculation, and at times
men had found him equally as fascinating
as their wives or daughters, but such occasions
were rare. He liked society. Society
held to be ruled by the women, if you
wish to get on in it pay your court to
them, and don't trouble your head about
the men. They have little to give except
shooting, and your fair friends will usually
see you get a sufficiency of that.

It is the evening of Mrs. Charrington's
garden-party, and the Major is sitting over
the fire in his own quarters lost in thought.
He has dined at mess, and it is needless to
say has made no allusion to Calvert's rather
impertinent ruse, not that he has at all
forgotten it ; there never was a man less
likely to forget anything of the kind, but
the Major holds that such social amenities
should be reciprocated in similar fashion,
and even amongst ladies Horace Crymes is
considered a dangerous man to play tricks
with, he having more than once displayed
a most unforgiving memory for former
slights when his opportunity came. But at
present he is turning over a much more
elaborate scheme in his mind, wherein
vengeance on the two culprits is a very
minor detail.

"Yes," he muttered, pulling rather hard
at his cigar, as men are wont when solving
some of those abstruse problems anent ' ways
and means,' which are the lot of most of

us, " I suppose it must come to that pretty
speedily — a little sooner or later won't
make much difference. I've one pull,
thanks to having learnt to hold my tongue
early in life ; nobody has an idea of what
difficulties I am in. It's bad enough to
be hard up, but only let your world know
it too, and you're dead broke before you
can turn round. It's a pity these fellows
(he meant his brother officers) know anything
about my connection with the Turf.
When you contemplate matrimony it goes
against you ; fathers-inlaw never appreciate
that connection. I kept it as dark as I
could, too, but it's a babbling world we
live in, and men don't wait for their deathbeds
c to babble of green fields ' that grow
white rails and a winning-post.

Hum ! now to reckon things up ; first,
is Mrs. Charrington right about that Ays-
garth girl ? Is she a prize worth laying
siege to ? secondly, how far would she herself
really help me 2 A woman's co-operation

is valuable if you can trust her ; the danger
in my case is when it comes to the point
Mrs. Charrington may regard me as somewhat
too much her own property to resign,
and if she takes that view, well," and here
he emitted a cloud of smoke from under
his moustache, "it will be deuced awkward.
She's safe to know more about me
than I think, and will invent it if she
doesn't. A woman always does under such
circumstances. Lastly, I wonder how far
Miss Aysgarth is interested in that fellow
Calvert ; that there is some sort of understanding
between them that dance business
this afternoon showed ; however, that don't
go for much. It only means he has got the
best of the start."

A knock at the door interrupted his
reverie, and in obedience to his sharp
"Come in," a wiry, hard-featured little
man entered the room, closed the door
behind him, and made a respectful bow.

"Well, Tom, what is it?" inquired the

Major. "I suppose you have fetched the
grey horse home. How do you like
him?"

"He's a good-looking nag enough' replied
the new-comer. " We've had better,
although I'll not deny we've had worse.
I thought, sir, you'd like to know he'd
arrived all right, and I wanted to see you
about what sort of work I'm to give him."

Mr. Thomas Blunclell conceived it his
duty to disparage any horse, with the
buying of which he had not been in someway
concerned. Crymes had picked him
up in a racing stable, from which he was
on the verge of being discharged, on account
of some suspicion as to his honesty, and
appointed him his stud groom. A dangerous
experiment that would probably have
resulted in failure with most men, but in
the Major's hands had turned out well sofar.
In the first place, there was no such
temptation to turn rogue as there had
been in his former situation, and in the

second, Mr. Blundell had a wholesome
appreciation of his new master's astuteness,
and a strong conviction that he was dangerous
to play tricks with.

"We may have had better, no doubt,"
returned the Major, "because at present I
can't say I know much about The Cid, but
I rather fancy we shall find him a pretty
good horse. Put him in training at once.
I mean to run him in the Eegimental Cup
just to see what he's like. I shall be disappointed
if he's not good enough for the
Grand Military in the spring."

We can very soon see what chance this
Cid has for the Eegimental Cup, sir. Old
Cockatoo can tell us all about that. He
won it two years ago, and there's not likely,
as I've heard of, to be anything much better
in the field than what he beat then. None
of the gentlemen have been buying anything
of much account. That second
charger of Mr. Harperley's is smart, but
they've had him fiddling about so long in

the school, he's most likely forgot how to
gallop."

You're right, Tom, the school may make
'em handy, but it don't make them quick.
He'll not be dangerous this year."

Although Mr. Blundell at present had
simply the care of his master's chargers
and hunters, he still hankered after his
old vocation. As Lysippus considered
the cause of cocks was cock-fighting, so
Mr. Blundell apprehended the cause of
horses was horse-racing. To get a horse
into condition, and then not at least match
him against something or other, was, in his
eyes, a lamentable waste of oats, time, and
talent. Hunting was all very well, but
only as a means to an end ; useful for
schooling, and also for obtaining the necessary
qualifications to run in stakes fictitiously
supposed to be designed for horses
habitually ridden to hounds ; but the real
salt of existence, the acme of human felicity,
was in Mr. Blundell's eyes a big match,.

with about 10lb. the best of your opponent.
His being allowed to train Cockatoo, a
bond fide hunter, was the one white stone
in his career since he had entered the
Major's service, some five years back, so
that the prospect of once more preparing
two or three horses for a race of any sort
was excessively exhilarating to Mr. Blundell.

And you'll put them together — I mean
old Cockatoo and this Cid — before the race,
I suppose, sir ? As likely as not the old
horse will prove the best of the two," added
Tom, in tones of disparagement.

Certainly ! I shall enter the pair, try
them, and may be run both."

Run both, sir ? "

I shall, perhaps, do so ; and now, Tom,
you've got your orders, and know as much
as I mean to tell you at present."

Mr. Blundell took the hint, and with a
respectful " Good night, sir," made his exit.
"The Major's clever," he muttered, as he
descended the stairs ; " but he's hard, aye,

hard as Brazilian nuts. He'll give me my
orders, but never show me a bit of his
hand. What does he want to run two for ?
What's his little game in that % Means to
gammon them, I suppose, as to which is the
genuine pea. It will go hard if I don't
know before the day, and if I don't, why,
I'll perhaps choose it for him. It's to be
hoped our interests may be identical,"
and Mr. Blundell, as he emerged into the
barrack square, winked confidentially at
the gas-lamp, in due recognition of the
comicality of his idea.

The Major took two or three rapid turns
up and down the room as his servitor
left him. " What has put it into my head
to win this steeple-chase ! " he exclaimed ;
pique ! by heavens, nothing else. I
won it two years ago just to show that
I could win it — that's all very well for
once, but I don't habitually play for the
gallery — there is no money to talk of to
be made over it. Besides, to clean out

one's own regiment don't sound well. It
would be buying money too dear. No,
it is pique, nothing else, that has determined
me to take the Cup this year.
Calvert shan't have it if I can prevent it.
A few hours ago, and he was welcome toit
as far as I was concerned. Now I
have determined to cut his comb, and,
if he is in earnest about Miss Aysgarth,
so am I, and he need never count he
has done with Horace Crymes till he has
placed the ring on her finger. I'll not
stand being thrown over by a country
chit like that, more especially when she
embodies money, which at this present
moment it is my special vocation to wed.
No, I am sorry to interfere with Pyramus
and Thisbe ; but, as I want Thisbe myself,
I am afraid Pyramus must become the
victim of circumstances."

*****

Curiously enough, in another barrack
room, not very far off, a somewhat similar

scene was being enacted. Cis Calvert had,
after the manner of his rival, left mess
early, and strolled back to his quarters
to indulge in day-dreams, visions of
brighter hue than those which had
mingled with the smoke wreaths around
the Major's head. Never had Miss Ays-
garth been so gracious to him as this
day, and Cis was conscious that he had
no whit neglected the occasion. He had
danced a good deal with her, he had sat
out with her more than once, and had
assumed an air of proprietorship that had
been prettily submitted to on her part.
He had cloaked her and put her into the
carriage, and fancied when he pressed her
hand warmly at saying adieu that it was
faintly returned. He was quite aware that
he had been making as fierce love to the
girl all the afternoon as the opportunity
admitted, and his heart swelled with
triumph at the idea that his attentions
had been in no wise rebuffed. Cis was

VOL. I.

very earnest in his wooing, and was now
counting up the probabilities of his success.
He had never been told that Miss Ays-
garth was an heiress. He had not the
advantage of Mrs. Charrington for a friend,
and so was happily ignorant of what would
have seemed to him only an extra obstacle
to the fulfilment of his desires. Still he
did know that the girl was the only
daughter of a man reputed wealthy, and
that it was quite likely he might regarda
captain of dragoons, with only five
hundred a-year besides his pay, as no
fitting match for his daughter, and yet
he felt no disposition to undervalue himself.
Let him only win Annie Aysgarth
herself, and he thought he would speedily
succeed in wringing her father's consent.
Do not think that there was any tinge
of conceit about Cis Calvert, though he
had some of the swagger essential to the
class he belonged to. You cannot incite
men to wear caps on one side and wax

their moustaches without putting a certain
amount of that into them, but Cis was
by no means unduly confident about his
present love-chase ; indeed, until to-day
he had experienced dire misgivings as to
what advance he had made in the lady's
good graces. In short, it was only the
fortunate result of his first audacity that
afternoon that had emboldened him to
make such severe running as he had
done. But the thread of his meditations
is cut short by a sharp tap at the door,
and hardly waiting for his response, Harry
Harperley enters.

For a minute or two Cis regrets bitterly
he has neglected to slip down the latch, but
to the brother of the object of our devotion
much toleration is existent ; and then
again, albeit he had not desired that his
day-dreams should be broke in upon, Cis
really likes the boy for his own sake. Still,
wrapped in his own ecstatic vision, he feels
that he cannot quite sympathize with

F 2

Harry's perpetual lament over Ms lost love,,
and he knows that the Cornet is about to
indulge in jeremiads over the bad luck which
has prevented his becoming the proprietor of
The Cid. He noticed that night at dinner
the boy's wine did him no good, his
grievance was rankling in his breast, and he
gulped down his liquor in saturnine fashion,
and refused to be comforted, as men do
under serious affliction, such as finding the
bride they hope to win is engaged to somebody
else, or that the bookmaker whom for
once they have landed for ' a thousand to
thirty ' is hopelessly insolvent.

Sit down, young un," exclaimed Cis ;
put one of those big cigars in your mouth,
and for heaven's sake don't let anything
concerning that grey horse out of it. It's
rough, I admit, and I heartily wish the
governor had got there before Crymes, but
he didn't. So there's no more to be said
about it."

Ah, well ! you do admit it is an awful

sell," exclaimed Harry. " I know that
horse is safe to win the Regimental Cup.
He's about as handsome as any I ever saw,
and Mappin declares that, to the best of his
belief, he's as good as he looks."

I don't say he won't, but remember, all
racing is a game of great uncertainty, more
especially steeple-chasing. I don't myself
think if he finds him very good that Crymes
will run him. We know he has horses with
which he could probably beat anything the
rest of us have, and he never spoils sport
by running them. Last year, though of
course he subscribed, he didn't even start
one, and during the four that he has been
in the regiment he has never won it but
the once, and then with a most legitimate
hunter. His old white horse, Cockatoo,
remember, cannot be counted more, though
no doubt very good of his class. I am not
quite convinced, indeed, that he can beat
Red Lancer. I only bought him just before
that race, and he was so utterly out of

condition that it would have been absurd
to start him. Hell go this year though r
and settle that question."

What do you think of that brown horse
Mappin has ? " added young Harperley,
wriggling restlessly in his chair. " The
governor says I may have him if I like, and
recommends me to take him, as I can't have
the grey."

I agree with your father, and think you
can't do better. Now, for heaven's sake,
let us talk no more horse, I'm sick of it for
the present."

Harry opened his eyes in wide amazement.
The Regimental Cup was to him at
present what the Derby was to the London
world the week before Epsom in those days,
an all-absorbing event, before which the
upsetting of thrones on the Continent faded
into utter insignificance. He could, as a
schoolboy, recollect Surplice breaking the
magic spell at Doncaster in '48 by winning
the double event, and the enthusiasm it

occasioned ; but I am afraid, like many of
riper years, was hardly cognisant of Louis
Philippe's precipitate arrival on our shores.
What could Cis want to talk about ? Was
there a nobler subject of conversation than
the horse ? He had never read Pope, or he
would have greatly derided the famous line,
The proper study for mankind is man'
and pronounced authoritatively that the
poet had never been in Yorkshire.

Still, whatever might be the subject his
host wished to introduce, he certainly was
in no hurry to begin, as can be well understood,
for, in reality, he merely wished to
continue the love-musings which his self-invited
guest had so rudely interrupted.

The Cornet, damped by Calvert's taciturnity
and the embargo on a monody,
regarding the loss of ' The Cid,' was about
to exchange the dulness of his present
situation for 'pastures new,' when a tap at
the door arrested his attention, and he sank
back in the chair from which he had half

risen. The new-comer was Trooper
Timothy Murphy, batman and master of
the horse to Captain Cecil Calvert of her
Majesty's — th Lancers.

Tim, as he was familiarly called, was a
thorough good specimen of the Irish soldier.
A spare, muscular man, standing somewhat
over 5ft. ein. in his boots, with red hair,
light grey eyes, upturned nose, and somewhat
large mouth ; he looked the very
incarnation of fun and good-humour, but
there was a glint in the eye and a twitch
about the corners of the mouth at times
that would have told a physiognomist that
Tim Murphy was no fool.

He had been Calvert's henchman now for
some years, and his faith in ' the master '
was as unbounded as his attachment to him.

Halloa, Murphy ! " exclaimed young
Harperley, welcoming any relief to the
oppressive silence into which they had
subsided, " what's the row ? "

'Deed, there's nothing the matter,

Mister Harperley. I just looked in on the
Master for a moment, but, as I see yer
honour's engaged, I'll just come again in
the morning."

What is it ? " inquired Calvert, shortly.
You've been on pass, of course, I know,
but it is pretty well time you were over at
your barrack-room."

I was going there straight, but I saw a
light in your honour's rooms, so I made
would to come up. It's about that black
'atomy ye bought a fortnight ago, sir.
There's been a fellow questioning me about
him in York to-day, and sorra a bit I can
understand his making."

What did he say ? " inquired Cis.

c Your name's Tim Murphy says he.

' They call me that mostly says I.

' Captain Calvert's groom,' says he.

' You're a civil at guessing,' says I.

' Ah, 'twas your master, then, bought
that half ton of bones done up in horsehair,
old Mappin called a hunter.'

' And why not ? ' says I, c sure's he's
going into high farming, and it's bones
they swear by just now.'

' Bones are on the rise,' says he r
grinning, ' may be he'd like to turn a five
pound note on his bargain.'

c Och, never a one of me knows,' says
I ; ' but an' he wor wise he'd give you that
just to take him off the premises.'

' Well,' he says softly, ' you see he was
sold out of a family in which he was a great
favourite, under peculiar circumstances ;
they're a bit sore at his loss, and would
give a trifle to get him back.'

' Just so ; their grandmother's favourite
hack, I understand. Troth I reverence the
feeling ; they don't like heirlooms like that
going out of the family.'

' That's it,' he said. ' Captain Calvert's
a good man, no doubt ; but the poor
rather's too ould for hunting, and so is
no use to him. It'd be murther to attempt
it'

' An' it's turning the poor baste out to
end his days in pace, you'd be doing with
him ? ' I asked.

"'My excellent friend, you've just hit it.'
Those were his very words, your honour.
1 He's past work, and we can't bear the idea
of his being called on to do it.'

' Ah ! well. If the master's willing
to part with him, it'll be a proud day when
I bring him back to ye. Where will I be
inquiring after you ? '

' When your master's tired of his
bargain,' says he, c you can just ask for
Isham Bog-g-s at the Punchbowl Tavern in
Stonegate. They know me there, good
day.' And off he walked with never
another" word."

What sort of looking; man was he ? "
inquired Calvert at the end of this
history.

'Deed he looked more like a Method
parson down on his luck than anything
else. Most of the colour of his face had

settled in his nose, and he'd a fair case for
an action against his laundress av his linen
went to the wash regular."

And what about the horse, Murphy ? "
inquired Harry Harperley, who had listened
to this conversation with the greatest
interest.

Well, sir, he's a good doer, but his oats
seem to do him no good. I can't get him
to carry any flesh. The boys down at
Mappin's would me he was a grate pepper,
but I've never tried him myself."

"All right, that'll do," said Calvert
sharply, " good night." And in obedience
to the mandate Mr. Murphy took his
departure.

What do you think of this ? " inquired
the Cornet eagerly as the door closed.

Think, my dear Harry, that I have got
an old horse worth rather more than I
thought he was ; that's all at present, but I
think further that I am very tired, and it is
high time to go to bed. So I exhort you

to follow Tim's example, and take your
departure."

A request with which the Cornet immediately
complied, walking back to his
quarters much exercised in his understanding.


CHAPTER IV.

A DINNER AT THE FIRS.

Miss Aysgarth was under no delusion as
to what had taken place between herself
and Cis Calvert at the garden-party. She
was a young woman, remember, and not a
girl; the distinction is really very great,
although the terms are constantly looked
upon as synonymous. At eighteen a girl
fancies herself in love more often than
not, but at twenty-four she should make
no mistake on the subject. She knows
thoroughly then, if she has any commonsense
in her, what she takes a man for — ■
whether it is for position, a comfortable
home, or from pure simple love of him.

Annie Aysgarth was quite aware that Cis
had shown her very marked attention, she
was equally aware that she had deliberately
encouraged him, and that the world generally
were also cognizant of the fact. She was,
as before said, a clear-headed young lady,
whom flattery had never imposed upon ;
singularly free from coquetry, a weapon of
her sex for which she had a supreme disdain,
and, moreover, perfectly heart-free up to
these last few days. Annie Aysgarth felt
that it behoved her to think in sober earnest
now whether she cared enough for this man
to marry him. She never doubted but that
he would ask her. Too proud to condescend
to the game of flirtation herself, it never
occurred to her that any man would dare
play that with her, and in Cis Calvert's case,
as we know, she was perfectly justified in
this assumption.

It was the more imperative, she considered,
because on the Friday, and it was
now Wednesday, her father had a large

dinner-party, intended to resolve itself into
a small dance later on. Captain Calvert
was amongst those invited, and Annie felt
that she must be prepared to answer this
question definitely at any moment. She
had no idea of keeping any lover of hers
shilly-shallying. She would place her hand
in his, and own she loved him with all
her heart, or gently tell him he was scarce
justified in mistaking her kindly feeling
towards him for more than friendliness.
She knew she could not honestly say the
latter now to Cis Calvert, but it was still
possible to say him nay. She had after all
seen but little of him when she came to
think of it. He was not the ideal she had
pictured to herself; no, Major Crymes she
was bound to confess more represented that ;
but still, the fact remained — she rather disliked
the Major, and had more than a
suspicion that she cared for gay, lighthearted,
insouciant Cis a great deal more than
she ought. Miss Aysgarth had indulged in

visions of a hero of god-like intellect and
Apollo-like physique, such as is seldom to
be met with in this work-a-day world, as
the man she would bow down to and
worship. Being in the main a sensible
young woman she never expected to meet
him exactly, but she deemed that the man
she married should be at all events a faint
copy of that ideal. She could not delude
herself into the idea that Cis Calvert represented
him in any shape ; he was only of
medium height, instead of the six feet she
had fixed upon as imperative. He was light
in complexion, when he should have been
dark ; tolerably good-looking, but not at all
suggestive of Apollo ; a practical, sensible
man, but showing no sign of high intellectual
power, and yet she felt she loved
him. Why? Ah that will be a difficult
question for woman, aye, or man, too, for
the matter of that, to answer till the hourglass
of this world is turned for the last
time.

VOL, I. G

But did she love Cis well enough to leave
her father for him '? — that was now the great
question in her mind. Very, very passionate
was the love Annie bore her step-father, and
none knew better than she what a terrible
gap it would make in his life. Convinced
that it was for her happiness that the man
of her choice was an honourable upright
gentleman, and she knew that her father
would smother his own feelings, nor permit
her to feel by sign or word the wrench it
was for him. She had done her duty by
him, as he by her ; she was loth to leave
him, but Julian Harperley was, she felt, the
last man to exact the sacrifice of her whole
life to his comfort ; she knew her stepfather
better than that. Did she love Cis
Calvert well enough for this — to leave her
own people for his sake ? — and Annie felt
that was a question not to be determined
lightly. She knew that she loved him, she
thought that he loved her, but then did he ?
Glance and gesture had told her so, but the

avowal of his love was as yet unspoken, and
so, spite of her shrewd, clear understanding,
the girl was tossed here and there in her
imaginings, like the veriest love-lorn maiden
•of sweet seventeen. In love-making, as in

L c>

racing, the fierce exultation of winning is
as nothing to the fervid excitement of the
yet undecided contest.

Coming in from a ride with her father on
the Thursday she found Captain Calvert's
card upon the table. A slight tremor ran
through her frame at sight of it. Men do
not usually call at a house the day before
they are engaged to dine there, and she
thought had she been at home she might
have been asked that very question about
which her mind was as yet undetermined.
More made up, perhaps, than she was aware
of, as is the case with most of us in our
moments of indecision, demonstrated by our
weakness for begging that advice from our

CO o

friends which we so rarely follow.

In these more enlightened days, when

o 2

people are told off to their respective chairs,
the hostess has a chance of mixing the social
salad to the best of her ability, which the
old scramble for seats utterly forbade.
Then various readjustment was often necessary
to prevent all the vinegar collecting
in one place, or in other words, the more
discordant elements finding themselves in
closest proximity. But it also had this advantage
— it offered great opportunities to the
audacious, who often succeeded in obtain in g
the coveted position by a little readiness
and sang froid. Calvert, on the eventful
Friday, knew that he could not hope to
take in the lady of the house ; there was
sure to be some dignitary to claim that
privilege, but he was determined to be as
close to her as possible. No sooner, then,
was dinner announced than he tucked the
young lady committed to his charge under
his arm, silenced some faint remonstrances
she made on the question of precedence
with the suave remark that he ' always

went in with the Dukes and promptly
followed Julian Harperley's footsteps. He
was successful in his design, and found
himself next Miss Aysgarth when the party
had finally settled down into their places.
He had no reason to complain of the manner
in which that young lady received this
arrangement ; on the contrary, she smiled
her approval of it ; but the achievement
of a tete-astute at a dinner-party must be
always due to fortunate circumstances. The
flaxen-haired young lady who was Calvert's
temporary partner had a leaning for soldiers,
and was not at all disposed to allow the
light dragoon fate had consigned her to
neglect his duty. Mr. Charrington, on the
other hand, conceived it his duty to entertain
Miss Aysgarth, so that Cis had little
chance of pleading his cause.

It was a largish dinner-party, and casting
his eye down the table, somewhat to his
astonishment, Calvert saw that Major Crymes
was seated next Mrs. Charrington. There

was nothing really odd in his being there ;
if not intimate he had certainly dined at
The Firs ' before ; the only thing singular
about it was that he had never mentioned
he was invited when Cis had alluded to the
party the night before at mess. Still, the
Major was not given to publish his movements
to the world he lived in, so there was
not much in that, and yet Cis Calvert kept
on wondering what the deuce Crymes was
doing there. Once he saw Mrs. Charrington
glance his way, and then turn and address
some observation to her neighbour, to which
the Major returned a negative shake of the
head. What could Mrs. Charrington have
to say about him, thought Cis, and his reply
to an observation of his fair companion
was so palpably at random, that the nymph
of the flaxen locks momentarily doubted
whether the champagne had not been too
liberally handed about. Cis indeed was ina
state of nervous excitability. His was
one of those peculiarly high-strung tempera-merits

to whom suspense is of all the most
intolerable. These are the men who before
the fight you foretell will utterly lose their
heads, and who, the fray once commenced,
display a coolness and presence of mind
perfectly marvellous. Cis had made up his
mind to put his fate to the test this night,
and chafed at everything that delayed the
desired explanation. This reckless dragoon
deemed apparently that love speeches with
the soup, a proposal with the entrees, bless
you my children with the cheese, and the
health of the bride and bridegroom as the
decanters made their first circuit, was the
way the giving in marriage was ordinarily
conducted in this country. No man ever
was more destined to be corrected on this
point, or have the story of Jacob's servitude
more pointedly recalled to his memory.

Miss Aysgarth bends her head, the ladies
rise, and as he holds the door open Cis
reflects ruefully that he has exchanged barely
a dozen sentences with the enchantress,

despite the audacious coup de main that
had placed him near her. He turns him
again moodily to the table, and becomes
speedily involved in that all-absorbing topic
to a Yorkshireman in September, 't Leger.
The first half of the month they discuss
fiercely what is to win it, during the second
they are wont to argue with no little
asperity as to what ought to have won it.
Nearly every man at the table had seen it
run, and had had his bet upon the race,
and there were those who still clung to the
belief that the Whitewall horse was out of
trim, refusing to recognize that his Epsom
success was due to Frank Butler, the state
of the ground, and luck, and that the king
of the year was Lord Exeter's mighty
chesnut, who, albeit ridden by ' the postboy,'
fairly smothered 'Daniel in spite
of the assistance of the crack jockey of
the day. Others there were who shook
their heads over Songstress, and muttered
grimly she would run a very different mare

when wanted, so that there was much Turf
argument going on round the banker's table.
Crymes sat, as was his custom, taciturn in
the midst of all this racing talk, into which
Cis Calvert had plunged wildly. A looker-on
would have pronounced the one man
devoted to the Turf, while he would have
deemed the other a somewhat bored listener
to a discussion which in no wise interested
him, and this was precisely the conclusion
Julian Harperley came to as he sat watching
his guests in indolent fashion. No
more erroneous deduction was of course
ever drawn, as the two men's betting
volumes would have shown, could the
banker but have seen them. They had
both j lost their money ; but, whereas Calvert's
cheque for a hundred would more
than have covered his liabilities, the Major's
were of a kind likely to necessitate intimate
relations with the tribes, and heartfelt
thanksgiving that they were not all lost.
Still waters run deep,' is one of the

aphorisms I believe in. Your garrulous
Don Juan has, usually, scarce courage to
kiss his cousin under the mistletoe, and the
way a man who has lost five pounds over
an Ascot Meeting will fill the walls of his
club with querulous and ear-piercing lamentation
over his awful luck is a common,
though sorry sight to witness. Now those
who are 'plungers' either in love or
racing are usually first heard of in the
journals, and much to the surprise of their
friends.

You must excuse us, Major Crymes,"
remarked the banker at last, " but you
know to us Yorkshiremen Doncaster races
are a solemn festival, and to guard the
Leger from the Southron the first duty of
the many-acred county. This year we have
been beaten on our own dunghill, we are
all a little sore in consequence, and would
fain explain away our defeat."

"Ah ! I fancy the best horse won,
though, from what I saw," replied Crymes,

rousing himself from a reverie into which
he had fallen. He had never taken very
much notice of Miss Aysgarth before, but
he had watched her pretty closely at dinner,
and he was rather astonished to think so
handsome a girl had not attracted his
attention sooner. He was more determined
than ever to win her for his wife
if he could. He was bona fide struck with
the girl. He wanted money ; it was getting
time to settle down and have done with
soldiering, and then there was private
pique. He detested Calvert — he could
hardly have said why — still he did. Few
of us can account for these instinctive
dislikes. Then he could not forget the way
Miss Aysgarth had thrown him over at
the garden party. Absurd to think a girl's
caprice could have such an effect on a man
not even in love with her, but so it was.
To paraphrase the words of the preacher,
all is vanity ; ' ' master passion of mankind,'
as Sheridan pronounced it.

We are all looking forward with interest
to your steeple-chases. My boy especially
is enthusiastic about that grey you bought
of Mappin, and declares the Eegimental
Cup is at your mercy. I presume you
will run him?"

"Yes, I think so, Mr. Harperley. I
don't know much about the horse as yet,
and it will be an excellent opportunity to
try him. By the way, next Wednesday is
our nomination night, and we have got
some men coming to dine. If you would
give me the pleasure of your company I
should be very pleased."

I shall be delighted," rejoined the
banker. " I've no doubt you will have
a cheery party, and that there will be no
end of chaff over the nominations. Pass
the sherry, please. Any one down therefor
a white wash ? "

In the drawing-room Annie Aysgarth
busies herself about her guests, flitting
softly from one to another as the occasion

prompted. She was making conversation
with an old friend of her father's when
Cis Calvert's name fell upon her ears.

No, my dear," replied Mrs. Charrington,
in answer to some question of Cis's flaxen-haired
dinner partner, " I don't know much
of Captain Calvert."

"Well, he can hardly be deaf at his
acre, but I declare he is the most absent
man I ever encountered."

Which means, Lottie, he wasn't thinking
of you. Well, comfort yourself, he'd
no business to. Let us hope his thoughts
were where they ought to be."

"And where is that, I should like to
know, Mrs. Charrington, unless with the
lady he is taking care of \ "

"Well, when he is going to take care
of another for life, you must make allowances
for his being a little distrait. If he
was thinking of the cousin he is going
to marry, you must not be hard upon
him. Stupid, I admit, with you by his

side, and shows a want of adaptability most
unusual in a dragoon."

Not a word of this conversation was lost
upon Miss Aysgarth, and she set her little
white teeth hard, and her face flushed as
she recalled how she had accustomed herself
of late to think of this man. Was
Mrs. Charrington's story true ? She felt
that she must get at the truth somehow
before she slept. The sharp surgery of the
truth was better than the incessant pin-pricks
of suspicion. She was aware of Mrs.
Charrington's besetting weakness, but she
did not know that all the same we cannot
help giving some credence to unreliable
testimony when our feelings are concerned.
Mrs. Charrington was not wilfully lying
upon this occasion. She was only telling
what she had heard after her own fashion.
One of the stray guests at her garden
party, brought there by one of her friends,
had observed — " I see you have got a
countryman of mine here, Cis Calvert.

We used to think he would marry his
cousin Kate, but he's still a bachelor."
Mrs. Charrington had retold this with unusual
accuracy — that is, for her.

And now the gentlemen gradually stream
in from the dining-room, and amongst the
foremost was Cis Calvert, bent upon the
achievement of that conversation which he
had so failed to procure at dinner. But
Miss Aysgarth was apparently in no mood
to lend herself to this design. The sunshine
of the dining-room had died away,
and to his amazement Cis met with a
somewhat chilly reception. The girl could
not help it ; she knew Mrs. Charrington's
habit of exaggeration ; she did not in her
heart believe that her lover could trifle
with her in this fashion, and yet for the
life of her she could not avoid showing:
in her manner that this story had laid
hold of her imagination. To have taken
offence on the one side about that which
does not admit of explanation, and on the

other to be conscious of the offending,
but innocent of the manner of it, has
resulted many times in a good lasting
quarrel, but is sure to be productive of
a game of cross purposes, to say the least
of it. Cis felt that he had unexpectedly
lost the key of the situation, and marvelled
much as to what the arraignment against
him might be, while Miss Aysgarth felt
dissatisfied with herself, indignant with
Mrs. Charrington, and angry with her
lover for not at once vindicating himself
in her eyes, regardless of the fact that
he could by no possibility be aware
of what had been alleged concerning
him.

To one as well versed in the ways of
women as Horace Crymes, it was little
likely that Miss Aysgarth 's change of
manner should pass unnoticed. He had
no idea of the cause, but it was plain to
him that something had gone wrong
between her and Calvert. That lovers'

quarrels are rivals' opportunities no man
knew better ; he was fairly in the field
now, and determined to make the most
of the chance with which fortune had
favoured him. Should he only progress
as far in the young lady s good graces
as he had contrived to do in the goodwill
of her father, he thought he should
not be doing a very bad evening's work
to begin upon. Acting upon this idea,
the Major made his way at once to Miss
Aysgarth's side, and at once engaged her
in conversation. As she had herself said,
Horace Crymes was a good talker, but
though he did his best to interest her, it
was apparent that his fair companion's
attention was somewhat astray. He understood
all that, and was nothing daunted
by it. She might not listen to him now,
but that was no reason she should not
do so a little later. A bad start he
knew, from former experience, may be
recovered, like most things, by patience

VOL. I. h

and perseverance, and lie possessed that
great virtue of knowing how to wait.
Not only did he succeed in somewhat
monopolizing the young hostess, but when
the dancing commenced he led her forth
for the quadrille.

Exercised severely by the lady of their
love, men either affect to console themselves
with a counter-attraction or sulk.
Cis was somewhat too hard hit for the
former, so he betook himself to the latter
line of conduct. He did not, of course,
stalk about like a Manfred in private life,
nor altogether drop the mask society
demands of us all, but he wandered
about rather vaguely, complained slightly
of headache, and showed no disposition
to dance with any one. Inwardly he
was anathematizing Horace Crymes and
woman's fickleness, with an intention that
would have been highly estimated at Need
Gulch or any other of the Colorado mining
stations.

But Miss Aysgarth herself was not

Laving altogether what is called a good

time of it. No sooner was she conscious

of the effect of her displeasure on her

victim — and she watched him closely from

those eyes at the back of her head which

all women appear to possess — than she

felt a little penitent for her behaviour,

and remembered that she had pronounced

sentence without waiting to hear if the

culprit had anything to say in his defence.

Then she reflected that she must at all

events know whether Mrs. Charrington's

statement had any foundation ; and how

was she to know that if she kept the only

person from whom it was possible to learn

the true state of the case at arm's length.'

Her resolve was speedily taken, and no

sooner did the quadrille come to an end

than, with her sweetest smile, she asked

Major Crymes to take her across to Captain

Calvert. " He is really neglecting his

duties shamefully," she added, laughing,

H 2

and I must scold him." That done, and
much more to the surprise of Cis than
his rival, the. Major was dismissed with
a saucy little nod, and Miss Aysgarth and
her lover were face to face.

How is it you are not dancing, Captain
Calvert ? I really cannot allow you to
remain idle. We are not, sad to say, so
bountifully supplied with cavaliers that
such a knight of the ball-room as yourself
can be excused his devoir."

I trust I am something better than
that," rejoined Cis grimly, " but I did not
know that my services were required. I
am at your disposal, Miss Aysgarth ; with
whom shall I dance ? "

With me, I think, if it is not imposing
too much on your good-nature," rejoined
the young lady demurely. " You see," she
continued, as she took his arm, "I should
like to be one of the first to offer my
congratulations."

About what ? " inquired Cis curtly.

I am told you are engaged to be
married'

And is there any one in this room so
capable of contradicting the report ? " rejoined
Cis, in a passionate whisper. " What
nonsense you may have heard I can't tell ;
but that the question I tremble to put has
yet to be answered you know as well as
I do."

But they say you're engaged to your
cousin," faltered Miss Aysgarth.

"Do you suppose if there had been the
faintest ground for such a report I .should
have dared to speak to you as I did at
the Charringtons' ? Do you hold me such
a hound, Annie, that I could make love
to you while I was engaged to another ?
If I don't rank higher in your esteem
than that, I fear there is small hope
for me."

I didn't say I believed it," stammered
Miss Aysgarth.

Do you believe I love you ? " whispered

Cis. " You must have known that, Annie,.
for weeks. As for the story you have heard
about my cousin — well — she and I have
always been real good cousins, nothing
more. I vowed when I came here to-night
to ask you one question. You know what
it is. "What answer am I to take away
with me % Am I to leave The Firs supremely
happy, or sadly regret the day I first saw
the walls of York."

The girl looked up into his face,
inquiringly.

Can you ]ove me well enough to be
my wife ? " said Cis, in a low whisper.

Once more she looked him steadily in
the face. Then a slight quiver played
round her mouth, her eyes dropped, a little
hand stole into his, and she answered
softly, "Yes."

CHAPTER V.

THE NOMINATIONS FOR THE CUP.

It was a gala night at the mess of Her
Majesty's — th Lancers, and the old room,
scene of many a wild revel, glittered with
plate and wax lights. These were the last
days of the army of the great Duke, remember,
of the veritable inheritors of the
Peninsula traditions ; when the infantry
had a quiet contempt for Brown Bess as a
firearm, but a mighty belief in the efficacy
of the bayonet ; when the cavalry held that
any square of foot soldiers not British was
to be broken ; when the joints were placed
on the table in all their barbaric splendour,
and dinners a la Buss were as yet in the

womb of time ; when men not only could
drink port, but did, by pailfuls, and toned
it down afterwards with a grilled bone and
a trifle of whisky punch. How they stood
it is a mystery, but the veterans that are
left should have some consolation in the
gout that now mostly afflicts them when
they reflect that they did earn it.

The nominations for the Eegimental Cup
are to be published to-night, and, although
pretty well known already, still the — th
have determined to have a party to give
a little eclat to the official announcement.
Julian Harperley is there by Major
Crymes's invitation, not that Calvert
troubles himself much on that point since
his last evening at The Firs. He feels now
that he is an accepted lover, and any
transient uneasiness he might have felt
about the Major is a thing of the past. Mr.
Charrington is there — shrewd, sharp, and
combative as ever. Many other guests are
there besides these two, who, as they have

no bearing on this narrative, it would be
useless to particularize. In fact, it was a
full house, and to those conversant with the
habits of those apparently nonchalant light
dragoons, there was presage of an exceeding
wet evening. It was the custom of the
corps ; they were all so quiet and silky to
start with that the stranger within their
gates could never dream of ' the high
jinks' the evening was destined to terminate
in. So insidiously did they steal on
their victims as a rule, that temperate men
found themselves drinking burnt brandy
punch and joining in tumultuous choruses
hours after the wives of their bosoms had
expected them home, and with no idea that
they had exceeded a bottle of claret.

Dinner passed off pleasantly enough, as
with good wine, decent cooking, and cheery
hosts, a dinner is bound to do, and then
having drunk ' the Queen there was a lull
in the conversation while the pay-master,
who took this duty upon himself, proceeded

to read out the entries for the regimental
races; for, besides the Cup, there was a
Farmers' Plate and also a Challenge Vase,
open to all members of the York and
Ainsty Hunt, but the Cup was the event
upon which interest chiefly centred. One
curious thing about such race as this is,
that they are apt to look a foregone conclusion
and result in a most unexpected
1 turn up In a regiment every one knows,
or fancies he knows, all about everybody
else's horses, and so imagines it is very
easy to say what will probably win, quite
forgetting* that amateur training; and amateur
riding are apt to upset all calculations at
times. Now the Major's new purchase was
of course no secret. They had all seen and
admired The Cid, and the prevalent belief
was that there was nothing in the regiment
capable of beating that grand-looking grey,,
therefore no little astonishment was manifested
when it was found that besides The
Cid the Major had also nominated Cockatoo.

Could it be that the new purchase was not
quite so good as he looked ? but surely he
must be better than old Cockatoo, who,
besides, had incurred a 10lb. penalty for
having already won the Cup, and who had
won with not much in hand either.

You don't seem to put quite so much
faith in The Cid as Mappin does," remarked
Julian Harperley. " Running a second
string looks as if you — "

Didn't know much about him," interposed
Crymes ; "just so. I believe him to
be the best of the pair considerably, but I
don't know as yet, and I have seen too
many handsome impostors in my time to
trust to looks implicitly. All these fellows
think I am safe to win the Cup with him —
why ? because Mappin, who wanted to sell
the horse, said so. They know nothing
more than he is a good-looking one."

<( Hallo ! " suddenly exclaimed a vivacious
subaltern, named Eadcliffe, " here's another
case of second string. Cis Calvert's named

a couple ; here's Captain Calvert's chestnut
horse, Bed Lancer, and Captain Calvert's
black horse, The Mumper. What's that ? "

You don't mean to say you've entered
that skeleton you bought out of the hounds'
mouths ? " laughed another. " Never were
dogs more defrauded of their just due than
when you interfered between Mappin and
his good intentions. He picked up that
horse with a view of presenting him to the
kennel."

Never you mind, Strangford ; The
Mumper will very likely beat more than
beat him. He's a bit poor, perhaps, but he
may mend of that."

Mixed with all the chat was no little
surprise as to what could have induced
Calvert to enter this new purchase. Some
of his brother officers had not even seen it,
and those that had wondered not a little
what had made him buy such an old screw,
for it was palpably an old horse that had
done a lot of work in its time — well bred,

no doubt, and not without some good points,
but never likely to look like a gentleman's
hunter, put what corn into him you would.
Nobody was more astonished and excited
about the entry of The Mumper than Harry
Harperley. He had been present, as we
know, in Calvert's room when Tim Murphy
had reported his mysterious conversation
with Isham Boo-ors. What had Cis found
out about the horse since then that had
determined him to run The Mumper for
the Cup ? He would have been much
astonished if he had been told nothing ;
that the entering of The Mumper was due
to the earnest entreaties of Tim Murphy,
who had all an Irishman's passionate
admiration for a grand jumper, and this he
had ascertained the old horse to be ; but
then he had been sold to Cis with that
character, and he could fairly have said
with Crymes that his knowledge of his new
purchase was simply what the horse-dealer
had chosen to tell him.

As the claret circulated, discussion waxed
warm about the various chances of the
competitors for the Cup, and it speedily
came to pass that opinions were not only
emphatically expressed, but boldly backed
by the disputants, until at last, amidst the
Babel of chaff, Strangford announced his
intention of opening a book on the forthcoming
race, if only the owner of the
favourite would give him a start.

Now, Major," he exclaimed, " set the
market ; they have made The Cid first
favourite down here. What shall I lay
you ? Take my whole book, and let me lay
you two hundred to one."

No, thank you, Strangford. I'll take
two ponies for fun if you like ; but I tell
you all, that I believe The Cid to be a good
horse, but as yet know nothing about him."

It's a bet," rejoined Strangford sententiously.
" Now, gentlemen, who wants to
back one ? I keep my own of course ;
Herodia runs for me."

The amateur bookmaker got plenty of
custom for the next few minutes. All he
had to lay about both The Cid and Red
Lancer was rapidly appropriated, and then
there came a lull.

Pass the decanters, Radcliffe," cried the
layer of odds. " Tho' business is slackening,
thirst is on the increase. Won't anybody
else back one ? "

"Yes, I will," exclaimed young Harperley.
What against The Mumper \ "

Now look here, Cornet," retorted Stratford,
with mock-solemnity, " this touching
loyalty to your Captain is a thing beautiful
to witness, and for which we must all both
reverence and pity you, but you don't mean
in earnest that you want to back that old
plate-rack Cis found by the wayside the
other day. His story of buying it of
Mappin is of course apocryphal."

What will you lay against The Mumper ? "
replied the boy doggedly.

You can have two hundred to fifteen, if

you really do wish to make me a small
present," was the reply.

Done ! " replied Harry Harperley. " 111
take that."

The other nodded assent, and noted it in
his betting-book.

In the mean time an animated argument
was going on at the other end of the table
between Mr. Charrington and the Major.
The master of Byculla Grange was combative
and dogmatic by nature. It had
struck him as singular that Cry me s should
have entered two grey horses, although for
the matter of that old Cockatoo was grey
now only by courtesy, and perhaps more
for the sake of saying something than
aught else, he proceeded to state that in
this country he never knew a good horse
of that colour. With the Arab it was
different, but the English thorough-bred of
that colour was never good for anything.

But he had caught rather a tartar in
the Major. Crymes pointed out that all

tradition of ballad and poetry was rather
in favour of greys. " Did not the old
hunting song say :

f And the best of the horses that galloped that day,
Was the Squire's Neck or Nothing, and that was a
grey.'

What about Chanticleer, did he not
consider him a good horse ? "

No, he did not. Chanticleer was much
overrated, a mere handicap horse, and as
for poetry, faugh ! what did such men
know about it ? they put in whatever
colour suited their rhyme.

Well, you will see my greys run better
than you give them credit for," replied
Crymes, apparently wishing to drop the
subject.

Then I shall see what I don't in the
least expect," rejoined Charrington testily.
Will you bet me fifty pounds that you
win the Cup ? "

No, that would be to back my pair at

VOL. I. I

evens against the field, and I should look
for a better price than that."

Now there had been a good lot of wine
drunk, and Mr. Charrington was one of
those men whose wine does them no good.
It is so at times, instead of growing genial
under the influence of the rosy god, thawing
to their fellow-creatures, and beaming
with amiability, we meet cantankerous creatures
who become more morose with every
bumper, who become argumentative and
obstinate, who once having started a topic
that threatens to be disagreeable, pursue
it with a pertinacity that sets one's teeth
on edge.

He sat sipping his port and looking
moodily at a written list of entries in front
of him. "I don't like greys," he said, "I
don't believe in them. Now, Crymes, I'll
give you a chance to back your opinion.
Captain Calvert's got a couple entered as
well as yourself; only his are decent-coloured
Christian horses, not Pagan circus-looking

animals like yours. Will you back
your pair against his for fifty ? "

Yes ; or five hundred either," retorted
the Major, contemptuously.

You can put the remainder of the five
hundred down to me if you like," exclaimed
Cis, no little nettled at the disparaging
tone assumed by the Major.

Crymes looked a little astonished for a
second, then replied, " As you like, Calvert.
You had better have an even monkey, and
I can bet Charrington an odd fifty, or a
hundred besides, if he likes."

"You shall bet me a hundred, then,"
said the latter ; "I don't believe in grey
horses."

The Major nodded assent, and, having
noted the two transactions, turned quietly
to his guest. " I must apologize, Mr. Har-parley.
"When I asked you to hear the
nominations for our races I had no idea
these fellows would turn the mess-room
into a betting-ring. Pray don't say I

I 2

encouraged them because I have been
driven into backing my own horses. My
bets were put down my throat, and my
attempt to choke them off by offering a
big wager has only recoiled on my own
head. It is always a mistake amongst
brother officers, and I am surprised at
Calvert taking me up in that way."

Julian Harperley had heard vaguely that
Crymes had a weakness for the Turf, still
he knew from his son that the Major never
bet or played cards for more than nominal
stakes in the regiment, and he honestly
considered that such wagering as had taken
place had been none of his seeking, but
had been thrust upon him by Charrington
and Calvert. It might be a mistaken mode
of putting an end to Charrington's persecution,
but Julian Harperley believed that
Crymes had honestly meant no more than
to extinguish his assailant when he proffered
him a heavy bet, and he did the Major no
more than justice, he had never dreamt of

being taken up, much less by Calvert. It
did not much matter to him, he meant
winning the Cup this year, and he most
certainly meant also backing his horse to
win him a good stake. It might as well
be won in one place as another, and then
he felt that there would be no little satisfaction
in beating, and winning money,
from Cis Calvert. He had made up his
mind, and intended to make defeating Cis
for the Cup only the prelude to defeating
him for a much bigger stake. He did not
know that Cis had already proved successful
in that other event, nor would that to
a man of Crymes's persistency be deemed
conclusive.

And so you've been backing The Mumper,
young un," said Cis, as Harry Harperley
lounged up to him in the ante-room, dinner
being brought to a termination, and coffee
and cigars at length arrived at. "What
made you do that 1 "

I thought if it was worth your while "to

enter him, it was worth my while to take a
long shot about him. You said the other
night, you know, you fancied, from what
Murphy told you, that you'd got hold of a
better horse than you thought for."

Yes ; and I entered him to-night to
gratify Murphy, who's sweet upon the
horse, because he's discovered him to be ' a
grand pepper.' I bought him on that
account, thinking I might find him useful
among those big fences up in the Ainsty
country, but I know no more about him as
yet. To-morrow I must ride over and see
Mappin, and find out whether there's any
history attached to the horse, where he
picked him up, and whether he knew anything
about him before he came into his
hands."

By this time things had settled down
into the ordinary groove of big mess
parties. The elders and more decorous of
those present were absorbed in a rubber,
while the more tumultuous element had

organized a loo, characterized chiefly by the
boldness of the play. It is astonishing how
keen men are to take c miss,' who have
the best part of a magnum of champagne
inside them. When you begin 'unlimited
' at a shilling it sounds playing for
sugar-plums, but when the players take
miss ' freely it very soon becomes a
considerably less innocent amusement. I
don't mean that it quite means high play,
but it is possible for people of moderate
income to wake in the morning and feel
they have been indulging in that diversion.
Julian Harperley noticed that prominent
at this table were his son and Cis Calvert.
How they were faring he of course had no
idea, as his whist engaged his attention for
the most part. As for Mr. Charrington,
who also formed one of the whist table,
there was no getting him to abandon his
crotchet. He had transferred his dislike to
light colour in horses to light colour in
cards, and declared there was nothing to be

clone in the red suits. He played quite
mechanically the good old-fashioned game
he was accustomed to (asking for trumps
was amongst the undiscovered blessings of
the century as yet), uninfluenced by the
wine he had swallowed, but turn him from
his whim you could not. He refused to
have a bet on the odd trick if a red suit
was trumps, and even when he held four by
honours in diamonds declared there was no
trusting a deceitful light colour or a grey
horse ; if they ever did win it was always
when no one had backed them. When
between the deals it was suggested to him
such a thing had been known at Baden or
Homburg as a run on the red, he retorted
angrily, " It might be, but he had never
seen it," which, as he had never visited
either of those places, was an answer hardly
to the point. In fact, excess of wine had a
very singular effect upon Mr. Charrington ;
it always increased his natural obstinacy,
and was very apt to find its outlet in

leading him to take up some absurd idea.
It was not often he transgressed, hut this
was generally the result of such transgression.


But the whist table breaks up, and it is
time for the seniors to retire. As the
Major bids his guest good night, he remarks
in a low tone,

Don't think, Mr. Harperley, we're a
play regiment because you have seen a
little betting amongst us to-night. I assure
you we are nothing of the sort, and I have
never seen the Cup call forth such wagering
before. It's not our custom, believe me."

"No, no," replied the banker, " I don't
think that. Charrington's obstinacy and
Calvert's excitement were, I fancy, chiefly
responsible for the events of the evening.
Did you ever encounter such a mule as the
former ? "Whenever he gets too much wine
in him no idea is too preposterous for him
to adopt, and you might as well try to dam
Niagara as convince him that he is wrong."

That I must endeavour to do on the
12th December," replied Crymes laughing.
Once more, good night."

Fortune's rather favoured me to-night,"
mused the Major as he walked back to his
quarters, " it's not much, but every point
in the game counts, and I fancy in the
eyes of our intended father-in-law Calvert
and myself changed characters to-night. I
think he would say if he was weighing us
in the scales just now, Calvert's a gambler,
Crymes is not. I wonder what made that
old idiot Charrington make such a set at
me ; he surely cannot have the bad taste to
be jealous ! "

Now this was exactly, though unconscious
of it, what Mr. Charrington was. As
men often suffer from suppressed gout
without understanding what is the matter
with them, so Mr. Charrington had for
years suffered from suppressed jealousy,
and to a man of that temperament Mrs.
Charrington gave much opportunity.

His theories read by this light, when wine
threw the jealousy partially out, were not
altogether so wild, being generally based
on mad opposition to his wife's favourite at
the time on some point or another. In this
instance it had been grey horses.

Get on your nag, Harry, as soon as this
is over," said Cis Calvert the next day at
morning stables, "and we'll ride over to
Mappin's before lunch. I want to ask him
whether he really does know anything about
The Mumper more than he told me when I
bought him. Don't fancy, please, I think I've
got a phenomenon ; but, as he is entered for
the Cup, I should like to know if lie's got any
chance ; more especially as I was fool enough
to back him for a lot of money last night."

What made you do that, Cis ? " asked
the boy.

Because I was an ass, Harry ; because
Crymes's sneering manner made me lose my
temper. However, I must hope Red Lancer
will pull me through. The Cid may not be

quite so good as he looks, and as for old
Cockatoo, with 101b. in hand, I fancy I
hold him pretty safe."

Stables over, the pair were speedily cantering
through the lanes towards the horse-dealer's.
By good luck Mr. Mappin was
at home, and welcomed the two officers
cordially. He was always on good terms,
as may be supposed, with the cavalry
regiment quartered at York, and in Harry
Harperley's case he had known him from a
boy, and often lent him a clever pony in
the Christmas holidays.

Come in, gentlemen, and pick a bit.
I've a cold round of beef that is not bad to
lunch off. Do me the honour to begin with
it, and anything I can do for you afterwards,
of course I will."

Well, Mappin, if you will give us some
lunch, we shall both be much obliged to
you," rejoined Calvert, "and we can talk
over what I've come to see you about while
we have it."

The horses were put up, and the two
quietly seated round the table in the oak-panelled
parlour.

Now, Mappin," said Cis, when he had
assuaged a very healthy appetite with the
cold beef, and a somewhat unquenchable
thirst by a stupendous pull at a pitcher of
home-brewed, " I want you to tell me all
you know about the horse I bought of you
the other day."

Certainly, Captain Calvert. I picked
him up for a song at a sheriff's sale cf Dick
Hunsley's horses. He was described as 'The
Mumper,' a black hunter, aged, and, in that
latter particular at all events, correctly, for
I should think he's twelve or fourteen years
old. I was told he was clever, but, further
than he can jump like a deer, I know
nothing. I had only had him a week when
you took him. To the best of my belief he
is what you wanted, a clever hunter, at a
low price. I admit freely I turned my
money over horn. Of course I must, it's

my business, but I don't think you paid a
pound too much for him."

You don't understand me, Happiness
you, man ! I'm not complaining, I'm
quite content with my bargain. But
what's the horse's history ? that is what I
want to get at. Who, for instance, is Dick
Hunsley ? "

Dick Hunsley," returned Mr. Mappin,
slowly. " Well, about ten years ago Dick
Hunsley came by the death of his father
into as good a farm as there is in all Yorkshire.
The Huntley had been yeomen
farmers for many generations, farming some
two hundred acres of their own, and renting
as much more under Sir Tattoo, which lay
next them. They had always been a
straightforward sporting lot, and this Dick
was the first of the breed that took to
running cunning. It don't pay mostly, and
it hasn't with him. He's dead broke, had
to sell every acre, every stick, and that's
how The Mumper came into my hands."

What sort of a sale was it ? " inquired
calvert. " Had lie a large stud ? "

No ; they were a very mixed lot," returned
the horse-dealer, laughing. " Three
fourth-rate racers, a steeple-chase horse, a
couple of hunters, and a trapper or two.
The Mumper was one of the two hunters."

Now, tell me this, Mappin. Do you
know a man called Isham Boss about

DO

here ? "

I never heard the name in my life, sir,"
replied the horse-dealer, in no little amazement,
" and it is not a name one would be
likely to forget either. Might I ask what
he is?"

That is just what I want to ascertain,"
replied Cis, " and as soon as I do I shall
come to you again. And now, Harry,
we must be off. Good-bye, Mappin ; I've
entered The Mumper for our Cup, so anything
you can pick up about him I shall
be glad to know."

"Entered that old black horse for the

Cup! Well, I'm d— d ! " muttered Mr.
Mappin, as his guests rode away. " There's
an awful fool about somewhere, and who is
it? That's the question. Captain Calvert
or Robert Mappin ? Either I've sold the
horse for a third of his value, or else the
captain's gone clean off his head."

CHAPTER VI.

AT THE LIGHT HOUSEMAN.

It's odd, deuced odd," said Cis, as they
rode slowly back to barracks, " that Mappin
should never have heard of this man Boggs.
I should have thought Mappin would have
known every one who had any connection
with horseflesh through all Yorkshire."

But," interposed young Harperley, " the
gentleman with the sweetly euphonious
patronymic may not be exactly in that
way. Oughtn't he be a friend of this Dick
Hunsley's, who knows the horse, fancies
him, and, thinking he was pretty well
given away, is willing to make you a bid
for your bargain ? "

VOL. I. K

"I could have understood that if he
had gone straight to Mappin, but Mr. Boggs
don't suppose Mappin sold the horse tome
without turning money over him. He
don't even know what I gave for him.
It looks to me as if Mr. Boss was anxious
to get back The Mumper at any price."

"Which must mean," exclaimed Harry,
that the old black is a great deal better
than either you or Mappin had an idea
of. I shall win Strangford's money after
all."

"Well," rejoined Cis, laughing, "'if The
Mumper can get round the course about
half as quick as you can arrive at a conclusion,
I should say you would ; but I've
a good deal to learn about that horse, and,
amongst other things, whether Eed Lancer
can't beat him easily."

I suppose you'll send Murphy to see
Isham Boggs ? " remarked young Harperley.

No, I think not. Tim is an excellent
servant, but he has a slight weakness, and

I don't consider a gentleman who lives at
the Punch Bowl Tavern an eligible friend
for him. No, I shall give him strict orders
to avoid all acquaintance with Mr. Boggs,
and to keep whisky at a distance till after
the races ; and I tell you what, Harry, you
had better say nothing about the mysterious
Boggs."

All right," replied Young Harperley, as
they turned into the barracks ; " but you'll
let me know if you hear any more of that
worthy, won't you ? "

Cis nodded assent.

Now t , there was no one connected with
Her Majesty's — th Lancers so interested
about the forthcoming races as Mr. Thomas
Liddell : the idea of getting horses into
condition for something like real business
was to the ex-Newmarket stable-man quite
exhilarating. He assumed an aspect of
profound responsibility, and could not have
looked more impressed with the cares of
his position had he carried the key of

K 2

West Australian's box in his pocket. Asa
matter of precaution, lie knew the form
of every horse in the regiment ; who could
say "such knowledge might not some day
be useful, and the Major recognize once
more that the finality of horses was racing ?
Still, there was one of which Mr. Blundell
considered he had never satisfactorily got
the length, and that was Captain Calvert's
chestnut horse, Red Lancer. Mr. Blundell
was much exercised in his own mind as to
how he might induce Tim Murphy to give
him just a feeler with old Cockatoo as to
Red Lancer's quality.

The proceedings of the mess-room are
canvassed in the barrack-room more often
than the denizens of the former imagine.
Mess waiters, who are perpetually in and
out, and whose presence is rarely noticed,
are scarce likely to be miracles of discretion.
Officers' servants, it stands to reason, must
know a good deal of their masters' proceedings,
and if master and man are of a sporting

turn the chances are that the servitor is
as well acquainted with the contents of
the betting-book as the compiler. Men of
the Chymes stamp may keep such volume
under lock and key, but the majority ]eave
it on the table when not likely to require
it. There is nothing singular, therefore, in
the barrack-room being tolerably well posted
in what goes on in the mess-room. Mr.
Blundell, prowling about in pursuit of information,
is not long before he hears of
the entry of the mysterious Mumper, and
further, that Captain Calvert has backed
his pair against those of the Major for a
biggish bet. If the Newmarket 
L is somewhat surprised, he is no whit
dismayed, far from it, a racing mystery is
to him what chess problems and double
acrostics are to some people. It was a
veritable duel then between him and Tim
Murphy, and Mr. Blundell smacked his
thigh and chuckled with delight at the
idea of tumino- the Irishman inside out.

He was quite aware of Tim's amiable
weakness ; lie knew that though he rarely
got drunk in a military sense (it took a
good deal to do that in those days), he was
fond of a glass, and wont to be garrulous
when his throat had been sufficiently lubricated.
Other people might wonder what on
earth could have induced Captain Calvert
to enter that old black horse, but this
merely aroused Mr. Blunders suspicions.
A regular plant he thought, most likely
arranged by Mappin and Captain Calvert ;
the two horses had been tried together, and
c the ugly duckling ' had proved the better
of the pair. Calvert immediately takes
that, and the next thing is to stick the
Major with the good-looking Cid. The
grey is sure to be made first favourite for
the Cup, as indeed Blundell has learnt he
already is, which will enable the Captain
and Mappin to back The Mumper for a
nice little stake. Such was Mr. Blundell's
theory of ' the little game,' as he called it,

and it must be borne in mind that, from his
stand-point, there was nothing wrong in all
this. He didn't see that a piece of sharp
practice such as this could be hardly stooped
to among brother officers. No, it was smart,
very ; Captain Calvert had bought the best
steeple-chaser Mappin had — all the more
valuable because he didn't look it — and
was doubtless grinning to think that the
Major had bought one he knew he held safe.
Still, although Mr. Blundell, whose belief
in his own acuteness was unbounded, made
no doubt whatever that he had got to
the bottom of things, yet he could not
but acknowledge to himself that a little
corroboration would be more satisfactory.
When you do intend a coi/jj it should be
made as certain as lies within your power
was Mr. Blunders sentiment on all matters
pertaining to the Turf, and he was wont to
shake his head in doleful fashion over a
certain Derby which had cost him dear some
year or two before. The success of one of

the Southern competitors had been carefully
arranged for, but, alas ! the manipulators
had not thought it worth their while to
trouble themselves about a North country
outsider, and the result was discomfiture to
the schemers and their friends.

In pursuance of this policy, Mr. Blundell
took the readiest opportunity of suggesting
an adjournment to the Light Horseman,
after their horses were supposed up for the
night, to his Hibernian compeer.

A quiet pipe, just a moistening of our
throttles, and perhaps a little palaver over
the races. Mr. Murphy, I'd never refuse
a hint to a pal myself, that is, ODe I could
trust not to go gabbling about all over the
place, and I think it's pretty plain either
you or I'll take the Cup."

Sorra a one of me knows," rejoined Tim.
"Yere a great horse in The Cid, there's
no denying, and Old Cockatoo's useful,
but I'm thinking Eed Lancer '11 trouble
yes something."

All right, then we'll go down to the
Light Horseman after we've done with
the horses, and have a smoke and a talk
over things."

Faix and I'm agreeable," rejoined Mr.
Murphy with a confidential wink. " Maybe,
we might go near settling it to-night."

Tom Blundell was so pleased with the
way in which his overtures had been met,
that he already regarded the race for the
Cup in his own hands ; an affair of which
the arrangement was to be quite at his
disposal. It was such an opportunity as his
heart had yearned for of late, the idea of
winning money with cogged dice having
always a peculiar fascination for some people.
Still, Tom Blundell was essentially one of
those to whom early information on either
the Turf or Stock Exchange generally proves
useless. There are men who can never
make up their minds as to how to make the
best of their opportunities ; they are swayed
this way and that, they listen to every one's

advice, and are guided by none, and finally,,
when the coup comes off, win nothing, but
sit down and anathematize their own want
of decision. At least, that is what they
really should do, but usually they put the
result of their own miserable vacillation on
the shoulders of a friend, and curse him
freely through a far futurity.

The Light Horseman arrogated to
itself the title of a snug tavern. It had
perhaps been so some half score years ago,,
when railways were struggling into existence,
and the glories of the road, if on the
wane, by no means a thing of the past.
Although not on the great highway of the
North, there was plenty of traffic through
Belford from Nottinghamshire and West
Lincolnshire into-york that might have
then warranted such status, but it had
unmistakably now degenerated into a public-house
depending considerably upon the
custom of the cavalry regiment stationed at
the northern metropolis. Its situation, about

half way between the barracks and the city,
gave it an advantage not to be gainsaid, and
the military were naturally much considered
at the Light Horseman. The landlord
understood his customers and their requirements.
There was the commodious tap-room
for the troopers, and the snug parlour
at the back of the bar for the non-commissioned
officers, to say nothing of a couple
of small rooms at the back for gentlemen
who had private business to transact. At
the back of the house ran a long straggling
garden, containing some two or three
rather mouldy-looking summer-houses and
a superior dry skittle-alley.

In this paradise Mr. Blundell was a man
of mark ; free of the non-commissioned
officers' parlour, and much respected therein
as a great racing authority. He was in
receipt of very liberal wages from the
Major, and probably had more money to
spend than any frequenter of the house,
and was free with it. That he should rank

high in the good graces of the landlord
need scarcely be said ; consequently, when
Mr. Blundell, accompanied by Tim, made
his appearance, and demanded a private
room and a bowl of whisky punch, he
was met with obsequious smiles, and an
immediate compliance with his request.

"Fair tipple, Tim, 1 think," remarked
Blundell, as he put a steaming tumbler of
the mixture to his lips. "A beetle too
much of the sugar, perhaps, but they
always overdo the syrup in the provinces."

"It's aise suction," said Tim, smacking
his lips, "and I'm thinking they'd mend
it little in London."

And who said a word about London ? "
rejoined Mr. Blundell, sharply. " A fig
for London ! the metropolis of the Turf
is Newmarket. I don't believe breakfasts,
punch, or pick-me-ups are properly understood
anywhere else ; and as for training — "

Ah ! well, they've a notion of it up
here, the craters," interrupted Tim. " Maybe

you've won the Leger with a south-country
horse ; but, eclat, yell admit ould
John Scott made a mess of ye this year
at Epsom."

Ground upsets all calculations," muttered
Blundell, a little discomfited, "but
fill up your pipe, man ; there's as good
birdseye in that pouch as I can lay my
hands on."

For a few seconds the pair smoked and
sipped in silence. At last Blundell observed,
imbibing confidence with the punch,
I want to be straight with you, Tim ;
we must put 'em together, but The Cid's
our horse, you may depend on it."

He's a real beauty, and it isn't likely
Cockatoo can give ten pounds to him is
what they do be all saying — "

Pooh ! What do you and I care for
the general opinion ? I want to know
what you're thinking," said Blundell
meaningly.

Is it me ? Och troth, I'm of the same

opinion myself. It's beautiful punch — ah
well, as you're so pressing, I'll just take
another dandy," and Tim pushed his glass
to his companion in admonitory fashion.

A savage expletive was smothered on
Blundell's lips as he replenished his guest's
tumbler. Mr. Murphy was displaying a
want of confidence between man and man
that was perfectly disgusting, or an amount
of ignorance of the world that amounted
to imbecility. Which was it ? and Tom
Blundell after a moment's reflection decided
that punch must show. " It's a soothing
mixture," he remarked, " and warms a
man's heart. A queer start of your master,
by the way, nominating that old black
screw he bought the other day — "

I'm thinking he's going on the off
chance, like the man we saw down at
Carmarthen Steeple-Chases."

Ah, what was that ? " inquired Blundell.

"Well, you see, I was down visiting with
the Captain in those parts a year or two

back, and there was a gentleman who
insisted upon putting a clever cob he had
into a hunt race ; the others all laughed
at him, but although there was given
runners he finished second, d'ye see. ' Not
quite such a fool as you thought me says
he, as he weighed in. ( I o-ot five of 'em
down, and if I'd got one more I'd have
won clever.' The black's a grate pepper,
and may be the Captain thinks most of
them won't get round."

I don't fancy that's quite the Captain's
view," rejoined Mr. Blundell, eyeing his
companion keenly. He could not quite
make Tim out ; was this pure simplicity,
or was it affected stupidity assumed for
the purpose of baffling inquiries. But the
Irishman's face, though flushed with the
punch, baffled all scrutiny as he pushed
his tumbler significantly across the table.
Blundell promptly replenished the glass,
and then resolved to provoke Tim, if
possible, to show his hand by depreciation

of The Mumper. " I suppose' he continued,
"he's made a bad buy of it, that's
the fact ; and thinks entering the black
horse for the Cup will make people believe
him better than he is, and so enable him
to get out."

Get out is it," rejoined Tim, upon
whom the punch was telling, " it's mighty
little trouble he'd have about that. Sure,
the master could turn his money tomorrow
av he chose."

That's easier to say than to do, Master
Tim," laughed Blundell. " Some of our
officers ain't very wise, but I don't think
there's one of 'em fool enough to bid
money for The Mumper."

An' who said one of the gentlemen
wanted him ? Tho', perhaps, Major Crymes
might lay out his money worse, as maybe
he'll own when he finds himself at the
bottom of a ditch, with The Cid on the
top of him. It's a York gentleman whoso
sweet. I suppose you've heard of Mr.

Boggs in these parts? He's the boy for
sport, whether it's cock-fighting or steeplechasing.
'what's the Captain want for
him ? ' says he to me the other clay.

' I don't know,' says I.

' Just tell him to drop me a line says
he, ' an' I'll take him off his hands at
anything in reason.' "

Mr. Murphy was wont to be somewhat
braggadocio when he had a little liquor
in him.

Why m what does Mr. Boggs want with
him ? "

'Deed I don't know, but from the look
of him I'd think it's a team of hearse
horses he's collecting."

Once more Mr. Blundell glanced keenly
at his guest. Was there any grain of truth
in his rodomontade, or was he playing a
part ? He came to the conclusion that Tim
was at all events somewhat under the
influence of drink. " And where does Mr.
Boggs live ? " he asked at length.

VOL. I.

I'm not just at liberty to mention,"
rejoined the other, with a sly leer. " Such
a rale out-and-outer as he is there's no
difficulty about coming across."

"It's no object to me," rejoined Blundell,
carelessly, as he threw his tobacco-pouch
across the table. "We don't trade in
hearse horses ourselves."

Tim filled his pipe, and puffed savagely
at it for a few moments in silence, and
then growled out, " Maybe the hearse
horse '11 astonish you before the year's
out."

Can't very much, when you're going
to part with it to Mr. Boggs."

Tear an ages, man ! who would you
that? All I said was that he's mad to
buy the horse ; it isn't likely we'd part
with a clipper like The Mumper."

"Do you mean that?" asked Blundell,
eagerly.

"'I mane that's what Mr. Boggs thinks
him," replied Tim, rather taken aback.

Ah, and he considers him a good horse,
has known him before, and that's why he
wants to buy him."

Not at all, it's just funning I was.
He's known the rather a long while, and
wants to buy him back bekase he's an ould
favourite in the family'

Mr. Blundell experienced a considerable
desire to punch his guest's head, but
remembering that was the least likely way
to get what he desired out of it, and
that the experiment might possibly result
in that operation being performed upon
his own, he refrained.

"Did ye ever smoke a pipe at the
Punchbowl ? " suddenly inquired Tim.

No. Where's that ? " rejoined Blundell,
no little astonished at the abrupt turn in
the conversation.

Troth, I'm would it's one of the most
elegant taverns in the city."

But that don't tell me where it is ? "

Where is it ? " replied Tim— with the

L 2

tendency of an uneducated Irishman, to
reply to one question by asking another —
It's in Stonegate ; but it's getting late.
I'm thinking its time we were on the
throw."

There was no denying it. Mr. Murphy
was subject to military law as regarded his
hours, and it was as well he should be on
his way back to barracks again. As he
settled for the punch Blundell reflected
angrily that it was money clean thrown
away unless Tim became communicative
on the way home. He had brought
this blethering Irishman down here and
deluged him with punch for the express
purpose of turning him inside out, and
getting at all there was to tell about
Captain Calvert's horses, and he was walking
home with a dim consciousness that the
Celt had proved too much for the Saxon.
Especially did he intend to know Mr.
Murphy's real opinion of that old black
horse, and he was fain to own that Tim

had not let the slightest hint of what he
thought on that point escape him. All
attempts at conversation on the way back
to barracks proved futile. Tim was seized
with an unconquerable fit of taciturnity,
and responded to his companion's overtures
with incoherent grunts and heavy clouds
of smoke from his brule gueule. In short,
when they bade each other good night,
Blundell felt that his hospitality had been
obtained on the most fraudulent pretence,
and felt as keenly anxious to be quits with
Tim in some fashion as his master did with
Captain Calvert.

But if not quite so clever as he deemed
himself, the pupil of Newmarket had
nibbled sufficiently of the fruit of the tree
of roguery to be tolerably quick at putting
two and two together. Racing men are
wont to be rather rapid in their deductions
at times, and don't feel it necessary to seethe
weathercock to tell them which way
the wind is blowing. When Mr. Blundell

thought over the events of the evening next
day he gradually came to the conclusion
that there was a pearl or two of useful
information in that bushel of chaff to which
Tim Murphy had treated him. First,
Boggs was a most uncommon name, which
it was hardly likely that Tim would have
invented ; it was probable, he thought,
there really was a Boggs, and that, whether
or no he wished to buy The Mumper back,
he knew the horse's previous history.
Secondly, what made him allude to the
Punchbowl Tavern ? Tom Blundell had
never heard of this hostelry before, and he
knew he thought pretty well what houses
of call were patronized by the regiment
from top to bottom ; from the Black Swan
in Coney Street, habitually used by the
senior officers, to Harker's in Sampson-square,
more confined to sporting subalterns,
and so on through minor houses,
till one arrived at the Light Horseman;
but he had never heard any one mention

the Punchbowl. Puzzling over these things
he began gradually to connect them with
each other, and slowly arrived at the conclusion
that Mr. Boggs was not unlikely to
be met with at that mysterious tavern in
Stonegate. Once come to this conclusion,
Blundell determined to take the earliest
opportunity of inquiring for the shadowy
Boggs, and ascertaining whether he had a
palpable entity.

CHAPTER VII.

Ascham BOG.

The Punchbowl, although unknown to
Mr. Blundell, was in those days a tavern
very much in his line. "What are called
sporting houses are now pretty well out of
date; at all events it is no longer the
fashion for men about town to frequent
them, and the Castle, the Rising Sun, &c,
are utterly unknown to the golden youth of
our time, favourite haunts as they were
with their progenitors. The particular
pastimes which they nourished and promoted
have fallen into desuetude, and the
noble science of pugilism in these degenerate
days is apt to bring fine and imprisonment
to its enthusiastic followers; ratting

can hardly be said to meet with encouragement,
while cock-fighting is pronounced
decidedly unlawful, albeit no more cruel
than pigeon-shooting, and infinitely more
sporting. Murder on a large scale, under
the name of war, or agrarian outrage, under
the name of agrarian agitation, seem to bethe
only two sports of this description
recognized in our advanced civilization.
However, in '52 the prize ring, although in
its decadence, was by no means extinct, nor
would the Coop week at Chester have been
deemed complete without a little cocking.
To know the whereabouts of such amusements
men betook themselves to the
sporting houses, where they received what
was technically termed ' the office,' that is,
were told the place of rendezvous, and
could then proceed to admire the dogged
determination of Portsmouth Jones, the
amazing quickness and science of ' the
Spider or put their money on the famous
1 white piles ' of the Cholmondeleys in the

Austrian city. In a sporting county like-yorkshire
it followed of course that such
things were, and for information concerning
such tournaments there was no better place
to look in at than the Punchbowl. More
than one celebrity of ' Fancy land ' was
accustomed to make it his head-quarters
during the race week, and the then king of
the billiard-table, the Great Jonathan himself,
who did for billiards what Matthews
did for whist, was a well-known frequenter
when business or pleasure took him to the
northern capital.

After this preamble it may be easily
conceived that Blundell found no difficulty
whatever in finding his way to the Punch-bowl,
and his first feeling was one of no
little amazement that so congenial a house
should not have come to his knowledge
before. A crisp October day was just
coming to a close when the ex-Newmarket
man stepped across the sill of the tavern in
Stonegate. Three or four horsey-looking

men were absorbing spirits and water in
front of the bar, and carrying on a languid
and desultory conversation ; they took stock
of Mr. Blundell in indolent manner, but
when he inquired of the presiding goddess
whether Mr. Boggs was staying there, Tom
suddenly became aware that the conversation
had ceased, and that he had become
an object of considerable interest to these
loungers.

No, sir, he's not," replied the barmaid.
Who shall I say asked for him ? "

Never mind my name," rejoined
Blundell. " He wouldn't know it if he
heard it, but I want to see him badly all
the same ; when is he likely to be here ? "

Can't say, I'm sure," replied the young
lady. " Mr. Boggs is very uncertain in his
movements. If you left your name and
address he'd perhaps make an appointment."

Ah ! thank you, miss, that's what I'll
do. I'll just drop him a line here. I
repose he'd be safe to get it."

Sure to in the course of a day or two ;
he's mostly in three or four times a week."

As Blundell — having bade the barmaid
good night — issued once more into the
street, "Who is he, and what the devil does
he want with Isham ? " caught his quick
ear, and he marvelled greatly who or what
this mysterious Boggs might be.

But that was a point upon which he was
not destined to be speedily enlightened.
He wrote as he said he would do, and was
assured, on calling at the Punchbowl, that
Mr. Boggs had got his letter, but he received
no reply. He had taken kindly to the
house, and now often dropped in there of an
afternoon, but never could succeed in meeting
Boggs. He had got acquainted with
some of the habitues, and soon discovered
that Isham, as they called him, was well-known
amongst them, but what his precise
calling might be baffled him, If he inquired
what he did ? he was generally told
sometimes one thing and sometimes

another — he's a many irons in the fire has
Isham." Did he know anything about
horses ? " Well he did ought, he's had a
mort to do wi 'un," and a general grin pervaded
the company, as if much tickled at
the suggestion. Equally indefinite was all
information as to his whereabouts. " He
was a deal about, was Isham, down South
to-day, and up away North tomorrow ; he's
a busy man is Isham."

Weeks slipped by, and it is no secret
by this time in the regiment that the
derided Mumper has turned out a good
deal better horse than either seller or purchaser
had ever deemed him. Cis has
been on him, and discovered that both
Mappin and Tim are right on the one
point — the horse is a magnificent fencer,
without an idea of refusing. "He tucks
his hind legs under him, and throws himself
into the 'next field as if shot from a catapult;
if he'll only face water," says Cis,
I've never owned such a jumper before."

Calvert is fortunately possessed of a few
common-sense ideas on the subject of training,
and therefore orders that The Mumper
shall do but very moderate work. He
knows that old horses as a rule require
much less work than young ones, and
that, when you come to a really old horse,
he will sometimes do his best thing when
in the eyes of many people half-trained.
The black, in his opinion, wanted rest,
and, acting on this principle, he told Tim
to give him plenty of oats and moderate
exercise. The horse didn't put on flesh,
but that he was improving was evident
by the brightness of his eye and coat, and
also by his gaining heart. Still there were
many who agreed with Blundell that was
no sort of preparation for a horse to go
three miles across country, and that jump
as he might The Mumper could never be
dangerous after the first mile, on account
of his want of condition.

Cis has never as yet ridden the black

in the hunting-field, but the York and
Ainsty are advertised to meet at Askham
Bog, ' the very best fox cover in all England,'
as the enthusiasts of those parts
are wont to proclaim it, and Cis announces
his intention of giving The Mumper a turn
to Harry Harperley.

What fun," rejoins that young gentleman.
"I do believe Chymes means to ride
The Cid. It will be a sort of trial."

I suppose your sister will be out ? "

Of course, and the governor too ; neither
he nor Annie ever miss Askham Bog. It's
your first season with us, and you don't
know what a festival the first meet at
Askham Bog is. Why, half York will be
there on the Great North road to see us
throw off: always a fox, generally a run,
and the only place I should think where it
is possible for a crowd not to spoil sport."

Cis Calvert's engagement, though suspected,
is not as yet a published thing.
Annie had told her story to her father,

and Julian Harperley had, as is mostly
the case, listened to it with no little surprise.
A mother would have foreseen it,
but to the widower it came as a revelation.
The banker was not altogether pleased. It
w T as not that he thought his daughter ought
to do better ; he was perfectly satisfied
with Calvert's position and family ; as for
ways and means, he could afford to make
Annie such an allowance as would enable
them to get along comfortably, but the
fact was he did not take to Cis exactly.
He had liked him to start with, his son,
who was in Calvert's troop, was enthusiastic
in praise of his captain, regarding him withall
that hero-worship a boy of his age is
capable of, but Julian Harperley had of
late got it into his head that Cis was something
of a gambler. The banker was no
purist on this point, he was far too mucha
man of the world and a Yorkshireman
to boot to see harm in betting on a horse-race,
but when it came to betting pretty

well a 'years income on the result he was
somewhat staggered by it. He had heard
Cis's bet at the mess that night of the
nominations ; his engagement to Annie had
of course involved a clear explanation of
his means on Calvert's part. So that
Julian Harperley was aware that Cis on
that occasion had staked his whole private
income on the result of the Cup. A man
who will bet so recklessly as that may
love his wife very dearly, but make life
very hard to her all the same. Very
pleasant-mannered are those young gentlemen
—

Whose fathers allow them two hundred a year,
And who'll lay you a thousand to ten ; "

but they are usually viewed askance by
the heads of the family, and the banker
feared much that Cis Calvert was somewhat
in that way.

You must not think, my darling, that I
am opposing your marriage when I tell you
that I wish no positive engagement to exist

VOL. I. M

between you for six months. I have told
Calvert so, and he admits that I am not
very unreasonable. The words spoken of
course cannot be recalled, nor do I wish
they should be, but I do want you to be
quite sure you know each other. The
regiment is not likely to be moved yet
awhile, and, though when I gave it a son,
I little thought it was to rob me of a
daughter, yet I shall not complain if only it
is for her happiness. What tacit understanding
there may be between you I
have nothing to say to, but I wish thereto
be no formal engagement for six
months."

It shall be as you wish, father," replied
the girl, smiling. " As I shall see Cis constantly
it will not be very hard to keep our
secret for six months."

I am not so sure about that," said the
banker. " It's a lynx-eyed neighbourhood,
and much given to what Mrs. Charrington
would call putting two and two together,

though turning two into one would be the
more correct expression in such cases'

This delay Julian Harperley thought would
give him time to study Calvert's character,
to ascertain whether he really was an inveterate
gambler or whether he was merely
a man who had made a rash bet in the
excitement of the moment, for that it
must be held regarded as relative to his
income, and if he felt, at the expiration of
the stipulated time, that his duty to his
daughter required him to solemnly counsel
her to break with Cis, well then, was it not
better that their engagement should not
have been formally promulgated.

Such was the state of affairs between
Calvert and Bliss Aysgarth on that soft
November morning, when all York and its
neighbourhood were gravitating up the
great North road to Askham Bog. There
were sporting pedestrians ; there were the
mere loafing sight-seers ; horsey men on
foot, apparently breakfasting on ash plants.

M 2

Carriages swept by, with delicate ladies
swathed in fur and velvet ; tax carts,
crammed full of blooming rustic maidens,
with rosy cheeks, sparkling eyes, and a
perpetual giggle on their lips ; solemn gigs,
occupied by stout comfortable-looking men
and their spouses ; vehicles that defied
nomenclature, that had started as something
else near a century ago, and had been
modified from time to time to meet the requirements
of fashion, all jogged along midst
joke and jollity to see the hounds throw off
in the crack cover of the York and Ainsty.

The vendors of apples, oranges, and
gingerbread had established their stalls, as
usual, by the wayside, and were driving a
roaring trade, while at the little inn on the
opposite side the road to the famous fox
cover, it was whispered the finest old crusted
gingerbread was on sale, a drink apparently
highly popular and inspiriting, and known
to many of the consumers by the presumably
local appellation of ' jumping powder.'

That the hunting men should muster in
great force was only natural, but besides
these were that numerous contingent who
take an occasional day; men who borrow
or perhaps hire a horse for the occasion, and
amongst these were undoubtedly some very
rusty-looking customers, none more so perhaps
than a bottle-nosed man, in seedy
black, but who sat the sorry screw he was
riding, nevertheless, like a workman. The
soldiers paraded in considerable strength,
and there was no little curiosity among the
York and Ainsty men to see them perform.
The regiment had only arrived in York
from Newbridge in April, bringing with it
the reputation of being a very hard-riding
lot, and though, of course, this was not
quite their first appearance, the hunt considered
they had not really had an opportunity
of taking stock of them as yet.
Then the story of the big bet (I am speaking
comparatively) had oozed out, and it was
known that the Cup was considered to lie

between Cities and Calvert, who again
were recognized by the regiment as the
two best horsemen they had. Further,
it had become known that each would
be riding one of his nominations, and,
therefore, it may well be conceived that
the pair were the subject of no little
scrutiny.

Miss Aysgarth, as she rode up to the
cover side under her father's escort, had
quite a little staff around her. Calvert,
Crymes, her brother, and one or two more
of the Lancers were all of the party, and
that the popular daughter of the popular
banker should receive many cordial greetings
was matter of course, but, sad to say,
upon this occasion I am constrained to
admit that The Cid attracted as much
attention as Miss Aysgarth. A Yorkshire-man
has quite as appreciative an eye for a
pretty woman as for a good-looking horse,
but he is no more exempt from the worship
of new gods than his neighbours. Miss

Aysgarth was charming, but then they had
never seen The Cid before.

If that man and that horse can't go, then
all I've got to say is looks go for nothing,"
remarked a veteran sportsman, after a lengthened
contemplation of the grey. " We haven't
seen much of the Major as yet, but if you
chaps mean catching him to-day, you must
be off in good time, mark my word."

The Mumper, on the other hand,
attracts but little attention ; he looks well,
but is a plain horse, and never in his best
day could have caught the eye like The
Cid. The way, too, in which he is ticked
with white hairs indicates that he is no
chicken, and the general impression is that
Calvert is not riding what will represent
him in the Cup.

Ah ! Crymes, giving one of your greys
an airing, eh ? " said Mr. Charrington, as he
rode up, and raised his hat to Miss Aysgarth,
a good-looking one, very, but it's a soft
colour ; yes, soft, sir, d — d soft ! "

Where's Mrs. Charrington ; surely she's
out ? " asked Annie.

"Yes, but we've got a couple of nieces
staying with us, so she drove them over to
see the fun ; however, she's got her horse
here, too, so no doubt you will see her in a
few minutes."

Muttering something about paying his
respects, the Major moved quietly off on
The Cid, but he had little thought of
philandering at the ; bridle-rein of the fair
mistress of Byculla Grange. He had a new,
and, he firmly believed, a very first-class
hunter under him, and Horace Crymes
vowed two things to himself that day, that
he would know what The Cid was like,
and that the York and Ainsty should see
whether he could ride or no. He stole
quietly along the cover on the far side of
the road, creeping up the rising ground a
little as the hounds drew that way.

"Now, Cis, don't be absurd," said Miss
Aysgarth, in a low tone. " Papa will take

every care of me, and you know I never
really ride to hounds. I won't hear of your
missing the first day from Askham Bog
on my account. I want to see if The
Mumper can really jump as you say.
Look at the little knot creeping up the
slope, they are old hands, Cis, stealing
forward for a start. Go, or I'll hold you
the carpet knight I was once rude enough
to call you."

Cis bowed low, and then pressing The
Mumper into a smart canter, pushed up
the cover side in the direction indicated.

"How very much better that black of
Calvert's looks when he is going," exclaimed
Julian Harperley ; "but come, Annie,
although we don't aspire to the first flight,
it is getting time we also pushed a little
forward."

The few preliminary whimpers that for
the last three or four minutes had troubled
the ear now swelled into a very babble of
tongues, and Cis shook up his horse to catch

that little knot of horsemen edging rapidly
towards the end of the cover, and which he
felt intuitively was composed of a cohort of
the hard-riding division. He got there justin
time to note that the group were well
mounted, and looked like going all over,
with the exception of a bulbous-nosed man
in seedy black, riding a thorough-bred screw,
with fore-legs that made one shudder for the
owner's neck. Another minute and a cheery
gone away ' calls attention to the fox
gallantly breasting the hill-side. The hounds
crash out of cover, a faint roar is heard from
the road, dimly recalling the tremendous
diapason which announces the fall of the
flag at Epsom, hats are jammed on, and
catching their horses by the head, the little
knot are racing up to the first fence, a somewhat
hairy blackthorn, with a ditch on the
take-off side, the hounds lying slightly to
the left. Some of them charge it almost in
line, but all are well over, including, no
little to Calvert's surprise, the gentleman in

seedy black. Cis looks back, and sees they
have got a start for what threatens to bea
cracker ' ; he is pleased with his position,
and more especially is he pleased with the
galloping power The Mumper develops.
The old black horse is sailing along with the
low, sweeping stride of a thorough-bred,
little as he looks like one. Crymes, on
The Cid, has settled down to his work
just in his front, while, odd to say, Cis finds
the bottle-nosed man on the cripple weed
lying at his quarters. But —

If ever they meant it, they meant it to-day,"

as White Melville sings, and racing over the
crest of the hill the hounds stream across
towards Swain's Whin at a pace that
leaves short time for reflection. " Well
away," thinks Cis, "with the pick of the
York and Ainsty men, and in for a run. I
shall know all about The Mumper before
this is over, and be able to make a rough
guess at what The Cid can do with him.
By Jove, what a fencer he is ! "

Whether he meant his own horse or the
grey matters little — the remark applied
equally to both. Making the very best
of a capital start, and riding as if he'd
no doubts about his second horse turning
up, the Major had succeeded in leading
the field, and grimly swore to himself
never a soul should pass him that day.
If he had driven The Cid rather hard at
first, he was riding him coolly and steadily
enough now, and no one knew better than
Cis how bad a man Crymes was to beat
at any time, much more when he had a
bit the best of his field, as he had at
present. For a moment, so well was The
Mumper going, the temptation to race up
and really have a shy at The Cid was all
but irresistible. Then Cis reflected that
his horse was by no means fit, that winning
the Cup had now become a matter of no
little moment to him, both from pride and
pecuniary motives. "No," he muttered,
I'll not ride my horse's head off. Second

string, indeed ! I shouldn't wonder if he
turns out first fiddle when I have to determine
which is my best'

The pace was severe, and amongst the
select few right up with the hounds, the
two dragoons occasioned no little curiosity.
New-comers with a reputation are always
keenly scanned in the hunting-field, and
when the pair are supposed to be riding
the very horses on which they propose to
shortly contest a race, the interest of the
lookers-on is, of course, heightened. But
there was, perhaps, no one of that select
band who watched the relative going of
The Cid and The Mumper so closely as
the bottle-nosed gentleman in seedy black.
How he kept with them at all was a
mystery, as neither he nor his horse gave
the faintest sign of such capability. A
little under a mile and he began to tail ;
a couple of fields more, and the plucky
screw he was riding galloped into a fence
completely pumped, and deposited him on

his back in the adjoining enclosure. The
man picked himself leisurely up, bestowing
in the first instance no manner of notice
on his luckless steed, but gazing steadfastly
after the receding horsemen.

"By G— d," he exclaimed, "the old
horse has got back his form, and if these
soldiers don't mess him about with too
much work, that Cup's as good as on
Captain Calvert's table. Poor Dick ! I
thought his break-up had put an end to
the little game we meditated, but it looks
as if other people were going to play it
for me. I've not quite cyphered it out
yet, but it strikes me I shall have a pretty
good race over that Cup whatever wins."

And now occurred one of those distressing
episodes so familiar to hunting men,
when revelling in ail the delights of a
good start for a good thing. The hounds
suddenly threw up their heads, and checked.
What was it ? Had they overrun it ? It
gradually became apparent that was just

what had happened. The fox had been
headed, and, after circling round to the
right, had doubled back again to the
friendly shelter from whence he came.
Maledictions on their luck burst from the
lips of the leading division of horsemen.
It was disgusting ; they were well away,
riding delightfully jealous, and in a moment
the cup was dashed from their lips. But
to one of the cruelly-disappointed band
there came balm speedily. A road ran
adjacent to the scene of the disaster, and
amongst the macadamite contingent that
the check had permitted to come up Cis
espied a certain riding-habit, which completely
changed the current of his thoughts.
Leaving the hounds to puzzle out the lost
trail, he jumped his horse quietly into the
road, and once more took his station by
Miss Aysgarth's side.

I tell you what, Calvert," exclaimed
the banker, " they may laugh about the
old black at the mess-table, but, by Jove,

they'll none of them laugh much at him
in the hunting-field. Why, he's a rare
galloper as well as jumper. We've managed
to keep you in view all the time,
and you looked as if you'd take some
beating to-day."

"Yes, I think I've picked up a cheap
horse," replied Cis, laughing, " and feel
that for once in a way I really have had
the best of a deal with Mappin."

Chapter VIII.

A SUBLIME SACRIFICE.

Only to think of The Mumper distinguishing
himself in that fashion ! As Papa
said, we could see you capitally all along,
and you looked like being right in front
all the way to Swain's Whin, which we
all thought his destination' said Miss
Aysgarth.

It most probably was, but circumstances
at times compel foxes to change their minds
as well as human beings."

A remark pregnant of meaning, no
doubt, but I don't see how it particularly
applies just now," rejoined the young lady
demurely.

VOL. I. N

In this way ; having been done out
of my gallop, I decline to lay myself open
to further caprice on the part of the fox
family for to-day, and elect to ride with
you instead."

"Nonsense ! see, they've hit it off again,
and you're losing a start."

Don't be sarcastic, Miss Aysgarth,"
returned Cis, laughing. " There's not much
fun to be got out of muddling back with
the pack to Askham Bog."

"But to think of a man dangling by a
lady's rein when hounds are running, be it
ever so slowly."

I would willingly forego the best run
of the season if I might linger at yours,"
replied Cis in a low tone.

"You don't really expect me to believe
that, do you ? Some one has said that ( all
females love exaggeration but don't you
think, Cis dear, you are carrying it just
now a little too far, and even if there bea
wee bit of truth in it, tell it if you like

in Gath, but for the sake of all you bold
dear never whisper it in Yorkshire'

I'd not shrink from proclaiming on the
steps of the York Club that a ride with
Annie Aysgarth was of better worth than
the best run ever galloped from Askham
Bog."

Hush ! " exclaimed the girl with a mock
affectation of terror. " Cis, dearest, you
are talking blasphemy ; that exclusive body
would cast you out from among them as a
barbarian, and taboo me as the Circe who
had ensnared Ulysses."

"Well then, we'll revert to the more
worldly and cowardly policy, and vow we
lost the hounds — must, you know, if we
don't follow them ? "

"And yet that is what we came out
to do."

In a qualified way. Please remember
this ancient but valuable animal I am
riding has an important engagement, and
I am bound not to ride his head off. I

N 2

wanted to give him a gallop, but not a
hard day."

Yes, and I am told you have got a
terrible lot of money on it, Cis."

Who told you ? your father ? "

"No, Harry. I wish you wouldn't bet,
at least so high as you did the other
night. It will do you harm with papa ;
he always looks rather askance at men
who gamble."

But, my dearest Annie, I don't. Crymes
was speaking in such contemptuous terms
of my horses the other night that I lost
my temper, and made a foolish bet if you
like, but I neither play nor bet as a rule,
except in quite a modest way."

u I am afraid, from something papa said,
he thinks otherwise. It was that made me
question Harry, and so learn all about what
took place at the mess. Harry, by the way,,
is immensely mysterious about The Mumper.
He told me he had backed him, that nobody
knew what he was, and that you had got

some private information concerning him,
and then," added the girl, laughing, "he
seemed so swelling with irrepressible stable
secrets that I maliciously declined to manifest
further curiosity."

Harry is foolish to talk so," replied
Cis, smiling, "though, as far as I am concerned,
secret he has none to divulge.
What the mysteries of his own stable maybe
I cant say. We're as near the cover
here as we want to be, and shall have a
good chance to see them go away again,
if they manage it."

No fear but what they will do that,"
said Miss Aysgarth, " though, perhaps, not
with the same fox."

She was right in her prognostications.
A few minutes more, and once again reechoed
the many-throated chorus. Again
the jealous riders with whom

"While horses can wag it is never say die "
steal forward to the end of the cover. A
crash, and the dapple-coated pack pour

over the fence like a mill race. A melodious
' gone away ' from their scarlet clad
chiefs, faintly re-echoed from the Great
North road, and the pageant streams along
before their eyes, a repetition almost of the
first burst.

"By heavens, what a glorious sight!"
exclaimed Cis, as his eyes flash, and his
cheeks flush; "and look, Annie, there's
Crymes away well in front again ; ha ! the
York and Ainsty men must ride to-day
if they mean to take down our number.
The best man we have leads them just
now, and I verily believe on the best horse
in the regiment,"

I'll not believe him the best man, nor
The Cid the best horse, till a warrior I
wot of has gone down before him in the
Cup," cried Miss Aysgarth. "If a girl
don't have faith in her lover, all creeds
are torn up as far as she is concerned ;
but he can ride, Cis ; just look at the
way he's pulling his horse together over

that awkward little bit of ridge and
furrow."

"And if that isn't the way to hand
one over post and rails, I never saw it
done," cried Cis enthusiastically. " Belief
in oneself is a good thing no doubt, but
the way Crymes is leading the field to-day
is somewhat calculated to shake it."

They were trotting and cantering briskly
along the road all this time, with a very
fair, though gradually decreasing view of
the hounds. Still, as long as they could
see them that gallant grey held a commanding
lead, which his rider looked
resolute to maintain, riding straight as
an arrow and indulging his horse with
just what came in their way.

I don t think we shall see much more
of them," said Cis at last as he pulled
up at the top of a small hill.

No," said Miss Aysgarth, " they are
vanishing fast in the distance, going where
you should be going also — to Ked House.

It's very sad, Cis, and I quite sympathize
with you. Ah, why did you take charge
of me instead of wooing fortune once more ?
You might have cut down Major Crymes,
and made a name in Yorkshire story ; who
knows ? "

"I do," replied Cis gaily. "And 111
make that name yet. When I've carried
off the prettiest girl in the county, and
disposed of Crymes in the Eegimental
Cup, even the club will admit my conduct
to-day as madness with a purpose in it."

Ah me ! yes. ' Young Lochinvar has
come out of the West,' but before he carries
off his bride in old Border fashion will
he permit her to give him some tea ?
Let's ride home to The Firs, Cis, and have
a quiet gossip over the fire. I declare
papa has abandoned me in shameful
fashion ; to leave his loved daughter in
charge of a hard-riding dragoon, is equivalent
to desertion of the most unpardonable
description."

Nothing of the sort," retorted Calvert,
laughing. " It only shows the high estimate
he places upon the sagacity and
prudence of the horse-soldier. It's only
young ladies, as a rule, who properly value
the dragoon as a chaperon"

"Poor things," cried Miss Aysgarth,
with a burst of nierrv laughter, "but
here's a lovely stretch of turf for a canter,
so let's make the most of it."

On arrival at The Firs they handed
their horses over to the grooms, made
their w T ay to the drawing-room, and Annie
rang for tea. Very pretty did the girl
look in the brightly-flashing firelight that
still gallantly held its own against the fast
falling shadows of a November afternoon.
She had thrown aside her hat, and the
dusky tresses gathered into a knot behind
the small, shapely head, and falling low
over the broad forehead, glistened like a
rook's wing in the flickering light of the
flame. The dark blue eyes shone with

marvellous softness as they glanced proudly
on the man she loved, while the close-fitting
habit showed off her lithe, supple
figure to perfection. The gay badinage
of the hunting-field had ceased, and the
conversation carried on between them now
was low of tone and earnest of purpose.
Cis was mooting his plans for the future,
telling her how, for the present, it was
incumbent on him to stick to his profession.
Would she mind following the steel scabbards
about the United Kingdom ? There
was no chance of their bemsr ordered
abroad for years. Some of those Irish
quarters were, he knew, deadly dull, certainly,
but they had just finished their
turn there, and had all England and
Scotland before them.

No, Cis," she gently replied, " I
shouldn't like you to give up your profession.
I think any woman whose love
was worth having; would never wish that,
as long as her husband had health and

strength. A man has his appointed work
to do in this world, and it's more likely to
be bad for his wife than anybody when
he shirks it."

"I am a little afraid that your father
will expect it."

"No, Cis, you don't know papa; he's
the last man to expect it. No," she added,
with a smile, " when he gives me to you
it will be with full permission to enroll
me in the D troop at once. And now,
my own, I must send you away. It's
long past five, and I have to clothe myself
in splendour preparatory to driving over
to dinner at Byculla Grange. Kiss me,
Cis, and say good-bye."

He clasped her in his arms, and pressed
his lips to the rosy upturned mouth so
freely yielded to him, and then, with a
whispered God bless you, darling, passed
out into the dark November night. Cis
Calvert was doomed to think over that
day the hounds met at Askham Bog in

many a far-away land before Annie stood
at the altar with him, and little guessed
as he rode gently home to barracks, musing
over the roseate prospect before him, what
pitiless buffets fate had in store. A run
sacrificed, and a horse in training brought
home like a common hack in this fashion ;
verily I think a Yorkshire jury would have
found Cis guilty of being close bound to
Miss Aysgarth's apron-strings.

There was much talk about Crymes and
The Cid amongst the hunting-men as they
jogged home after the day's work; both
horse and man were honestly lauded, for
there was no denying that the Major led
the field from Askham Bos: to Eed House,
and never a one could wrest the pride of
place from him. Freely they admitted
that he had shown himself both ' a customer
' and a sportsman, but as far as this
last goes, it happened to be just one of
those occasions when a master of hounds
might have cried gaily, "Now, gentlemen,

ride over 'em if you can ! " Still, Crymes
was the undoubted hero of the day, and
those who did not see individually, concurred
with those who did, anent BufTorth
drain, when, in the words of the late
laureate of the hunting-field —

They told me that night he went best through the
run,
They told me he hung up a dozen to dry,
When a brook at the bottom stopped most of their
fun,
But I know that I never went near it — not I."

That there should be much converse
about this at Byculia Grange after the
ladies left the table was only natural, and
that it should be talked about, as it related
to the coming steeple-chases of the Lancers,
was merely what was to be expected. The
rivalry between Crymes and Calvert had
already attracted attention to the race for
the Cup, and the way the grey has carried
him to-day undoubtedly prepossessed menin
favour of the Major's chance. Still
there were not wanting those who had

seen the first burst and recognized what
a show Cis had made on the black.

Calvert went quite as well as Crymes
in that first spin, and," added the host,
oracularly airing that peculiarly conceived
hobby of his, " I've no belief in greys."

Seeing is believing, Charrington," retorted
a bluff hunting squire opposite, ashe
tossed off a bumper of port. " I don't
like your gaudy-coloured ones myself, but
I cave to public form when I see it, and
if Captain Calvert's got one in his stable
better than the one the Major showed us
the way with to-day, all as I can say is
he's lucky."

I agree with Charrington. The Mumper
went wonderfully well till the check,
and I don't think there was much to choose
between black and grey that time," said
Julian Harperley quietly. "Why Captain
Calvert didn't persevere, I can't say."

"Because he knew that old horse of
his was about spun out; they do for a

spurt, but they can't stay when they are
really aged."

No, I don't quite think that was his
reason," rejoined the banker with an
amused smile.

And then came much more discussion
about the day's sport, and the pros and
cons of black and grey were argued outwith
much intensity, fortified by that conclusive
expression of opinion common to
Englishmen, an offer to bet upon it. No
little wagering in a mild way was the
result of this after-dinner argument, and
had it come to a poll there could be no
doubt that the greys had it.

The sole representative of the — th
Lancers present, as it happened, was young
Harperley, and that he should ardently
champion his captain, in whom his belief
was unbounded, was quite in accordance
with the natural hero-worship of boyhood.
Chaffed and too closely pressed by those
shrewd old sportsmen who surrounded

him, what wonder he took refuge in the
indefinite, and more than hinted that Cis
had knowledge of The Mumper they little
dreamed of, and that when the time came
they were destined to be considerably
astonished by that noble animal's capabilities.
" Backed him ! of course he
had," cried the boy, flushed with excitement.
" Had he not taken Strangford's
book about him? Only let them wait
and see what a mess Calvert would make
of Crymes and The Cid when the day

came."

If there was a man at that table this talk
puzzled it was Julian Harperley. A few
weeks back and his son had done nothing
but dilate on the certainty this race was for
The Cid; that he had turned round and
changed his opinion was nothing. Young
people often do that, and, alas ! there are
old ones, too, who when it comes to racing
could tell sad stories of what vacillation has
brought upon them ; but why should Harry

so persistently contend that his owner knew
The Mumper to be very different from what
he was believed to be ? Calvert himself
always declared he knew little about the
horse, and Mappin less.

Was this misty, undefined knowledge he
hinted at merely Harry's own particular
opinion, and was he indulging freely in
that dearly-loved weakness of youth — the
backing; of it ?

I always admire a man who has an
opinion ; there are so many who have not,
whatever they may think to the contrary ;
specially is this the case about Turf matters.
When Jackson confides to me that such a
horse will win the Derby, I know T that he
means such a sporting writer says he will,
and when Jackson breathes his views of the
political situation into my ear I am also
aware that I am receiving an abstract of the
leader in the Standard, the Times, or it maybe
the Daily News. A friend of mine some
years ago declared his intention of listening

VOL. I. o

to no advice concerning a certain big race
about to be run, but " to play off his own
bat" and have at least the satisfaction of
losing his money in his own way. Well,
he lost his money by a head, and subsequent
running showed that he ought to have won
it. The result was soothing, if not lucrative.
Still satisfied vanity, with pockets
well emptied in sustentation of its opinion,
is not, upon the whole, a pleasant reminiscence,
while, saddest of all, he has held
positive and of course expensive opinions
ever since — luxuries these to be indulged in
only by the rich.

But nobody out had been so much impressed
with The Mumper's performance as
the hero of the day himself. Crymes had
noticed with no little astonishment how well
Cis Calvert had gone up to that first check ;
he had noted that the black was a remarkably
fine galloper, as well as jumper, and
had seen a great deal too much of racing
not to know that they run in all sorts of

shapes. He could call to mind, too, some
big tidings done by horses supposed past
their prime, and especially in cross-country
conflicts had the equine veterans distinguished
themselves. He was perfectly well
aware, too, why Cis had not persevered, and
could not disguise from himself that the
Cup was not quite such a certainty as he
had booked it, and that his chance of
winning Miss Aysgarth looked woefully
distant and dim. Difficulties never discouraged
Horace Cryrnes, and though he
seldom fell into the error of under estimating
an adversary's hand, it never cowed him.
He patted The Cid on his neck as they
jogged home from Red House, and muttered,
You're dirt cheap at the price I paid for
you, and, although that black of Calvert's is
a good deal better than I had any idea of, I
think, my boy, we shall manage to give a
good account of him on the 12th." Then
he fell to musing over his chance with the
banker's daughter, and was fain to admit

o 2

that unless something occasioned a breach
between Miss Aysgarth and her lover, their
engagement would be a thing published to
society before many weeks were run. That
it already existed he thought probable, but
still it was a little in his favour that it was
not as yet announced. He held no frivolous
scruples about being ' the something * himself,
did he only see his way, but at present
he most certainly did not. A man of a
curious, but by no means uncommon code
of morality, Crymes held all fair in love,
and a good deal fair in racing, that would
hardly seem so to the uninitiated ; that
bets must be paid while debts were by no
means obligatory, and that cheating in love
was a thing to jest about, while cheating at
cards put a man outside the pale of society.
A singular creed, no doubt, but pray do not
run away with the idea that it numbers a
paucity of believers.

There had been two other lookers-on at
Askham Bog that day, who had taken no

little interest in the respective performances
of The Cid and The Mumper, in the persons
of Mr. Robert Blundell and Tim Murphy,
and the way Cis had kept his place in the
first burst clinched the former's original
conclusion that the whole thing was a
regular plant arranged between Mappin and
Captain Calvert. Strongly imbued with
this notion, he determined to once more
pump Tim as they rode home together after
the hounds had fairly gone away in the
direction of Red House.

Ah, well, the cat's out of the bag to-day,
Tim," he observed, "and I don't want to be
told you are just exercising the second
string as well as myself. Red Lancer looks
well," he continued, throwing a critical eye
over his companion's horse, " but the
Captain will no more want him on the
12th than my master will this old white
beggar."

Oh," rejoined Murphy. " We'd have to
travel west of Alone to pick up such a

lovely pepper as that ould black. It's a
murthering shame the master didn't have
another go on him."

Do you mean he's an Irish horse ? " said
Blundell, sharply.

An couldn't ye tell that by the ways
of him ? "

No, nor you either ! he jumped well,
but so did The Cid, for the matter of
that."

You're a man of mighty little observation,"
rejoined Tim. " Didn't ye see the
rather wouldn't pass ' a habit.' It's a way
they have, though they'll follow them anywhere,
an' on mee soul, the men are much
the same when it comes to a petticoat."

Pooh, what rubbish you talk," returned
Blundell, angrily. " I thought, perhaps,
your friend Mr. Boggs had told you how
that old black is bred."

My friend Mr. Boggs ! " ejaculated Tim,,
uneasily. " Where did you hear anything
about Mr. Boggs ? " The Irishman had

utterly forgotten his indiscretion that night
at the Light Horseman.

Tim Murphy's uneasiness didn't escape
Blundell. He leant forward in his saddle
for a moment, as if adjusting the throat-lash,
and then said, " How did I hear about
Isham Boggs ? Why at the Punchbowl
Tavern in Stonegate, of course, he's always
there, you know."

No, I don't. Why should I ? "
I'm sure I can't say, but I suppose
you'll admit you do know Isham Boggs ?
At least you said so that night we'd a pipe
at the Lio;ht Horseman."

CD

Ah, sure ! I remember, I've met a
gentleman of that name," replied the sorely
repentant Tim, now cognisant that his
tongue had been running riot.

And does he not know all about The
Mumper, and what a great horse he is ? "
continued Blundell, marking the effects of
his random shot. " Ah, well ! my friend
don't confide in me, but I fancy you'll find

more than one at the Punchbowl who
knows the old black besides Isham Boggrs."

Mr. Murphy vouchsafed no reply, but
producing a short black pipe from his
pocket, proceeded to leisurely illumine it,
and puff away in moody silence.

If you won't be sociable, you won't,"
said Blundell, at length, " and if you won't
be confidential, you won't. I should like to
have arranged things comfortable with a
brother trainer," and the scamp rolled the
last words out with unctuous significance,
but if you won't, well, again, you won't,
I shall likely know as much about your
horse as you before the day, and mind you,
Mr. Murphy, we win the Cup, and you
don't, if your d — d old hearse horse can
take the Shannon in his stride."

"We'd be mighty good at brag, an' it
might take about two days to skin you in
the West ; but it's aise to see why you left
Newmarket," remarked Tim, meditatively.

"And why, I should like to know?"

inquired Brunei ell, in a voice hoarse with
restrained anger.

It's a cruel thing to say of 'em, but I'm
thinking their ways were a trifle too
straight for a trainer like you."

Mr. Blundell smothered a strong expression,
and putting old Cockatoo into a
sharp trot, left his unsociable companion
without further remark.

CHAPTER IX.

Islam THE Prophet.

In a bedroom on the first floor of the
Punchbowl Tavern, overlooking Stonegate,
on the evening of the meet at Askham Bog,
sat a man, who looked for all the world like
a dissolute undertaker. One who habitually
drowned the grief of bidding adieu to his
fellow mortals in gin, and had gradually
come to delight in such ' sweet pain.' He
had drawn a small table in front of the fire,
relieved himself of a well-splashed pair of
antigropolos, and was leisurely consuming a
decanter of spirits while he smoked a pipe.

On the table lay pens, ink, and paper,
several letters, a Buff's Guide, and a

volume or two of the Racing Calendar,

which latter rather tended to shake belief in

the undertaker theory. What Isham Boggs

had been originally sometimes puzzled his

intimates. A hanger-on of the Turf, and

consorting hi great measure with that

unscrupulous scum to whom racing is no

matter of sport but a mere gambling on

f the colour he was remarkable, despite

his disreputable appearance, for a softness

of manner and correctness of speech, which

showed that his bringing up had at all

events been different to theirs. True when

the drink took hold of him, as, sad to say,

it too often did, he relapsed into the coarse

language of his habitual companions, but

otherwise he was

The mildest-mannered man

That ever scuttled ship or cut a throat ;
With such true breeding of a gentleman,
You never could divine his real thought ; "

and if he didn't go quite that length he
certainly indirectly made little scruple of
slitting purses.

What was his business ? Ah, what is the
business of some of these turf parasites ? I
presume it might be designated as raging
around and seeking whom they may devour,
and a very poor living many of them seem
to make of it, but Boggs was not of these.
He had a business, and a very extensive
business he might have made of it, but inconsequence
of that miserable failing no
one could trust him. Was not one of the
mightiest turf coups ever planned lost in
this wise? There are magnates of the ring
yet, I trow, who shake their heads over Blair
Athol's year, and muse how wine will steal
away the brains of men.

Mr. Boggs was a prophet, not of the sort
that concern themselves about either the
weather or the end of the world, but a
genuine veiled prophet of Khorassan, who
had visions of the finish of the Derby, and
other important Turf contests. He had
barked his opinion as ' Tom Lodger's
Terrier ' in one paper, he had squeaked it

as ' the Eat in the Cornbin ' in another ;
but, alack ! there were times when editors
could get no opinion from either * Rat ' or
Terrier,' and on non-fulfilment of contract
editors are relentless. He was a good judge
of racing, and perhaps had somewhat better
luck than his brethren in the trade ; but a
prophet who won't prophesy can no more
get a living than a cobbler who will not
stick to his last. The oracles of Delphi, I
take it, were always on sale, but we should
hardly pay for such shadowy prophecy in
these times, and the Turf participator who
gave the winner of the City and Suburban
in a double acrostic would find trade
slacken.

The prophetical business having somewhat
fallen off after the manner of all
neglected industries, and Isham Boggs's
passion for strong waters having in like
ratio improved by cultivation, it behoved
that worthy to supplement his original
trade by the addition of divers smaller

callings, and lie became Turf adviser for a
consideration to various callow fledglings
from the universities, in the army, &c.
From that out, the decadence was rapid,
and he was soon known as a clever man,
who might be bought for the perpetration
of any Turf iniquity. It was true that
little matter of the wine cup still made
against him, but he had a marvellous
shrewd head, no scruples, and never babbled
in his drink. He had by this time acquired
a most undesirable notoriety, and, with the
modesty of all great men, was reticent about
obtruding either his name or his personality
on those likely to recognize it. The
fellow, indeed, had more than one alias, but,
whatever they might do elsewhere, these
stood him in little stead at Newmarket,
where he was as well known as the Bushes,
call himself what he might. At York it
was different ; although Isham Boggs was assure
to appear wherever there was horse-racing
of sufficient magnitude, still he was

more especially a fungus of south country
growth, and a man like Mappin, whose
race-going was limited to his own and the
adjoining counties, was little likely to know
anything about the redoubtable Isham.

"Ah! "he said, after a gulp from the
tumbler at his elbow, "that spin to-day
told me a lot. I wonder whether Captain
Calvert had an idea he was in some measure
riding a trial ; how astonished he'd have
been to know that the old cripple racing
alongside him would about sweep the board
if hurdle-races were run one mile instead of
two. Yes," he muttered, meditatively, " The
Coiner would take a deal of doings even vet
over four flights at that distance ; pity the
beggar can't stay. Well, I've seen for
myself, and my verdict is this — that the old
black has come back to his old form, and, if
he only keeps right, will win that race on
the 12th of next month. If he's beat it'll
be by that grey of the Major's. Good
horse that, and good man, too, his owner ;

from all I hear, there's nothing else in it.
Now, how am I to make a good thing of
this? I must stand to win on both, and
without risk. Oh dear no," he continued,
smiling, as he took his pipe from his mouth,
and addressed an imaginary audience.
What ! lay odds on two ! Fie, gentlemen I
Poor patient sportsmen like me don't dash
it down in that fashion. Our poor brains
must serve us in lieu of your well stuffed
money-bags. I don't think it will be
difficult for me to stand a pretty little stake,
for a man in my humble sphere, on both
The Cid and The Mumper.

Once more did Isham take counsel of his
tumbler, and then proceed to smoke and stare
into the fire with steady persistency. At
last, knocking the ashes out of his pipe, he
kicked the coals together with his boot, and,
turning to the writing-table, drew a small
note-book from his breast pocket, and said,
Now to look out the man I want. Ha !
here we have 'em, bookmakers. I wonder

what a publisher would give for this little
volume ? it would sell. ' A Book about
Bookmakers how they began, broke, and
were buried. Lord ! the public would go
wild about it. Fancy the biographies of
B. Green and Davis ; what's fiction compared
to facts like that ? and I could write
it, I could. No," he muttered sadly, as his
eye fell on the waning spirit decanter ; " no,
not now, I could have done, once. Ah,
well, now to find the man I want. He
should be a north countryman, or he may
hardly think it good enough to come so far
for, and then — yes, he must be one who
doesn't know me too well. Nottingham,
yes, there's plenty of good men there, but
there's some I don't fancy, and there's some
would hardly fancy me. Hah ! here is the
very man, Bilton of Leeds, new at it, only
got into Tattersall's last year, and a dashing
bettor. That settles it," and swinging his
chair round to the table, Isham proceeded
to write a couple of letters, one to the Leeds

VOL. I.

bookmaker, and the other was subscribed to
Mr. Thomas Blundell, — th Lancers, Cavalry
Barracks, Crick Road, having accomplished
which feat Boggs finished the gin, and went
to bed.

Tom was not a little surprised and elated
when he in due course received Isham's
letter. The mystery that surrounded the
man, the dark hints dropped by the frequenters
of the Punchbowl concerning
his business, and, above all, Isham's apparently
supreme indifference about an interview
with Mr. Blundell, had all impressed
the ex-Newmarket man with a respect for
the unknown Boggs difficult to imagine.
The veneration for the unknown is a singular
weakness of humanity. Heaven knows
what the inhabitants of India thought John
Company Bahadur might be, but he was
to them a magnificent myth, such as the
Empress of India can never hope to become,
and their veneration was in proportion.
Japan the same ; as soon as that mysterious

sham, the Mikado, was exposed to the view
of the multitude he perished. What respect
can there be left for general officers in an
age when they are as many as the sands of
the sea shore ? The democratic wave of the
day is quite possibly due to the excessive
plenty of princes of the blood, for humanity
in its foolishness is apt to hold cheap what
becomes plentiful, and alack ! the royalties
recall the bygone ballad,

We very much winces, at this long list of princes,
Which is longer than it ought for to be."

The eagles of the earth, like the eagles of
the air, should be restricted by nature as to
progeny.

Mr. Blundell lost little time in responding
in person to Isham's summons. He was
conscious of being under the protection of
the redoubled Boggs the minute he crossed
the Punchbowl's threshold. " Oh, yes,
sir," exclaimed the barmaid with a smile,
Mr. Boggs is at home. Here, Sam, show
the gentleman up to Mr. Boggs's room,"

P 2

which Sam — called by courtesy a waiter,,
but with an unmistakable look of potboy
about him — proceeded to do.

The great Isham, in all the easy deshabille
of shirt-sleeves, was busily engaged in
writing letters when they entered.

Sit down, please, Mr. Blundell, and
excuse me for one moment. "We'll have
our talk as soon as I've finished this note."

Tom sat down, and very naturally fell
to studying the queer figure seated at the
table. A spare man, of medium stature,
with a tallowy sickly face, in the midst of
which a bulbous nose glowed like the red
light above the door of a chemist, close-cut
grizzled hair, and clean-shaven cheeks made
his age very difficult to define ; he might
have been anything between forty and fifty-five.
He was habited, as far as he was
habited, in the sable garments he usually
affected, and his linen, as Tim Murphy had
observed, was not suggestive of extravagance
in the laundry line. But the thing that

puzzled Blundell most was a hazy idea that
he had somehow seen this man before,
though when and under what circumstances
he couldn't for the life of him recollect.

"There, that's finished," said Boggs, ashe
closed his letter. " I am a busy man, Mr.
Blundell, and that must be my excuse for
receiving you so coolly. It's a poor profession
is mine. Great responsibility, and
very inadequately remunerated ; turf adviser
to a lot of young gentlemen who don't
know what to do with information when
they get it, who back long shots with
most injudicious freedom, and take two to
one about pretty near a certainty in tenners,
bah ! " and, disgusted with the picture he
had conjured up, Isham threw himself back
in his chair and paused.

It is odd, but it is a curious proof of the
fascination of the Turf, that belief in these
seers of the race-course is never one wit
impaired by the exceeding shabbiness of
their apparel.

Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat,"
but that the man who confides Parthian
secrets should himself be wealthy has never
been in the least regarded as essential. Why
they don't commence with making their
own fortune never seems to occur to their
credulous clients, and it is curious to notice
that the march of education and science
never makes the faintest change in human
nature. The alchemists of old were, as a
rule, badly clad and impecunious, although
on the verge of the golden secret, but never
wanted patrons; and that many a noble
Athenian fell a victim to the confidence
trick I have little doubt.

Now some of my patrons, Mr. Blundell,
will be coming over to these races of yours,"
resumed Isham, " and, of course, they'll
want my advice about what they are to do.
I don't mind paying a trifle for information,
and I should think if any one does know
that'll take the Cup it's the trainer of
The Cid."

What might you call paying for information
? " inquired Tom sulkily, this not being
at all what he had expected from the interview.
He had dreamed of an elaborate
fraud, and Isham's proposition was a mere
picking of pockets.

Oh ! Tm generally pretty liberal' replied
Boggs carelessly. " It pays best. Ita
small race this, you know, not much to
be made out of it. I should think a fiver
ought to satisfy you."

So you sent for me to make me such a
bid as that, did you ? " said Blundell, rising
in great dudgeon. " You manage your
affairs, and I'll manage mine, we don't row
in the same boat. I can't put a name to
you yet, but I've seen you before, I'll take
my oath."

Stop, stop, my good fellow," cried
Isham ; "nonsense, we don't part like this.
You'll wet your whistle, and we'll talk
things over quietly. Sit down, man. You
must be pretty green at the game if you

fancied I was going to trust you right
off."

You'll have to do it sooner or later if
you and I are to do business," replied
Blundell sullenly, as he resumed his seat.
"You don't suppose a man as was raised at
Newmarket is going to make only a fiver
out of a chance like this."

"Ah, you were brought up at Newmarket,
were you ? " rejoined Isham, and his light
blue eyes surveyed his visitor in the keen,
stealthy, half absent manner a cat affects
when playing with a mouse. " They rather
neglected your education I'm afraid, or you
ought to know your master's neither a fool
nor a man to play tricks with. Has the
name of being liberal, too," continued Boggs
dreamily, as if talking to himself ; " upon
my word I shouldn't wonder if I made a
better thing of it by playing on the square."

Confound it ! what do you mean ? "
exclaimed Blundell.

Only this — the Major knows me, and

if it came to his ears that you had been
calling upon me I don't think you'd have
much more to do with The Cid or any
other horse of his."

I don't know who you are, and I don't
care," retorted Blundell, roughly. " What
I came here for anybody's welcome to
know. I came to find out all I could about
The Mumper. I was told you knew the
horse, and wanted to buy him back again
from Captain Calvert."

JL

I look like buying horses, don't I ? "
said the other, with a derisive glance at
his habiliments.

u You might be buying for other people.
I wanted to know what chance that black
horse really had in the race."

That depends upon me," rejoined Isham
Boggs quietly. "The Cid's chance depends
upon me also, and I haven't quite
made up my mind as to which I'll win
with."

Tom Blundell's face was a study. " Why,

damme," he said, " you don't mean to say-that
you have anything to say to our
horse ? "

"And this to a man," observed Mr.
Boggs, addressing once more an imaginary
audience, " who has had twenty-two Derby
runners in his pocket out of twenty-four.
It would be always rash, my friend, to say
that I'd nothing to say to any horse in any
race in which I took an interest. With
regard to your horse, his winning depends
a good deal upon how I think it will suit
me. You needn't look so particularly astonished
; if you ever have been at Newmarket
you ought to know that it isn't always the
owners who pull the strings ; there are
occasions upon which they have to take
orders instead of give them."

; I know that well enough," rejoined
Blundell, a but my master's not one of that
sort ; nor is a regimental race one worth
a money-lender's interference if he was."

Ah ! " rejoined Isham, " what refreshing

innocence. If, as I said before, you ever
were at Newmarket, it is very transparent
why you are not there now. Might I be
permitted to observe," and the soft, polished
speech contrasted strangely with the man's
shabby appearance, "that neither you nor
any one else in the regiment know much
about Major Crymes ; further, that anything
money can be made over is deemed
worth interference with by some people.
Me, for instance."

All right, I've no doubt you re devilish
clever, but I have been at Newmarket,
although you mayn't think so," exclaimed
Blundell, no little nettled at the contemptuous
way in which Mr. Boggs was
treating him. " I don't know what the
blank and blank you sent for me for ; but
we'll win that race whether it suits you or
not," and so saying, the angry Blundell rose
preparatory to departing in his wrath.

My dear sir, that is just it. No, you
decidedly wouldn't do for Newmarket — a

little too short in the temper, my friend.
Sit down, sit down. You have just told me
gratuitously what I offered you five pounds
for a quarter of an hour ago ; what I sent
for you to ascertain'

Mr. Blundell dropped back in his chair
dumbfounclered. Who on earth was Isham
Boggs ? Was he a bookmaker from those
torrid climes unnameable to ears polite, and
where, oh, where had he seen him before ?

I wanted to know whether you thought
The Cid good enough to win, and you do.
Now, I've another question to put to you.
How do you propose to turn money over
this? By backing The Cid, I presume,
from what you said."

I don't know. You carry too many
guns for me, and that's a fact," rejoined
Blundell. "I'd like to talk the thing over
with you quietly."

Now you're becoming sensible. Listen !
I suppose I may assume that there are only
three horses in the race, Captain Calvert's

two and The Cid ; neither that brown
horse Mr. Harperley has just bought, nor
that Herodia of Mr. Strangford's are any
good, eh ? "

I should think not."

Very well, The Mumper will turn out
the best of Captain Calvert's pair, and, therefore,
the race, bar accidents, lies between
him and The Cid. Now, Blundell, my man,
I have about thought this thing out, and
you can't pay too much attention to the
grey. It will be a very fair certainty for
him. All you've got to do is to pitch him
out right, and put your very shirt on it."

That's all very fine," rejoined the other ;
"but, in the first place, there'll be a very
limited market, and, in the second, The Cid
will be a strong favourite."

Very sensibly put," said Isham. " How
a young man of your understanding should
ever lose his temper and talk nonsense
beats me. But these are little points I'm
rather happy in arranging ; there will be

plenty of professional betting, never fear.
I'll ensure a ring, and, what's more, your
horse won't start favourite."

It's all very well," rejoined Blundell,
but I don't know whether to believe in
you or not. Neither I nor any one of my
acquaintance knows anything about Isham

It's a pity the world generally, and
especially that portion of it that's addicted
to horse-racing, is not in similar ignorance.
Though only a travelling name, it would
conduce both to my profit and comfort if it
were less known. If you have been at
Newmarket, you may have heard of Miles
Lane, and if you've ever been racing much,
he may have been pointed out to you,
although he is warned off the Heath."

"Miles Lane ! " exclaimed Blundell, starting
from his chair. " What, him as was
one of the famous Running Rein lot 1 By
Heavens ! I thought I'd seen your face
before. I remember you was pointed out

to me some years ago at Ascot," and Mr.
Blundell stared at the magnificent spoiler
as if he'd been the prime minister of a
Liberal administration of these times.

Isham's vanity was touched. He was
not insensible to this spontaneous tribute to
his misdirected talents, and, like many of his
class, he had ability far above the average —
ability that would have raised him a handsome
income properly applied, but which
as it was appeared to profit him little.

"Yes," he said, " I was in that plant, and
it took us a deal of trouble to bring ofT,
too ; while, as Goody Levi said afterwards,
What's the use of winning the Derby
when they won't give it you.' Can't you
trust me now to manage a little matter like
this ? "

Ah, that was just what it was," thought
Mr. Blundell ; " could he trust Isham ? As
for his capacity for mapping out any conceivable
turf villainy, of that Tom had no
doubt ; he had heard so many stories of

Miles Lane's audacious frauds in his Newmarket
days that he regarded him as a
species of race-course Rob Hoy, as a man
who, if in some danger of the gibbet or
the prison from the Jockey Club and that
section of society, was the pet hero of the
free lances. But then, would the great
freebooter act fairly by him ? "

Isham's keen blue eyes read his face like
a book, and solved the question for him.

What, you're not quite sure I'm going
no the square with you. Very well ? Now,
just pay attention to me. After getting
your opinion about The Cid's chance, I
might as well have let you go as not.
Why didn't I ? Because when I square a
race, and I've squared a good many in my
time, I always like to have the trainer in
the swim. Now, if I let a trainer know I
have backed his horse, and that he is on
at a comfortable price in a small way, and
that he needn't be afraid of such and such
horses, he understands they are out of his

way. He's a fool if he asks questions ; he'd
much better not know, and I need scarcely
add that things of this sort can't be too

o

little talked about. What's my object then
in letting the trainer know ? Simply this
if anything goes wrong with his horse, I
expect him to let me know at once, that's
all. Then we arrange the puzzle again for
the public. Now, do you understand 1 "

I think so ; The Cid is to win, but if
anything goes wrong with him, I'm to let
you have a line here at once."

Just so, and in the mean time you are
on at 100 to nothing about your own horse.
If anything goes wrong with him you'll
know what we'll go for — be it The Mumper
or anything else. I mayn't look like money,
Blundell, and I haven't it, but those who
employ me have, and never fail to discharge
any obligations of this kind."

He spoke no more than the truth, and
it was the wide-spread knowledge of this
that made him so dangerous on the Turf.

VOL. I. Q

There was always plenty of unscrupulous
men ready to find money to carry out the
schemes his subtle brain had wove.

Keep money himself he could not ; the
moment the necessary restraint for its
acquirement was abandoned, the man
became a drunken gambler.

Mr. Blundell walked home from the
Punchbowl in a state of high moral ecstacy.
The Cid ' was to win the Cup, and he had
made the acquaintance of the famous Miles
Lane, one of the chief manipulators of the
great Running Rein fraud.

CHAPTER X.

THE RACE.

The excitement about the race for the
Cup had not only risen to flood tide in
the regiment, but had gradually simmered
up into a very respectable boil in the neighbourhood.
A local match in the sporting
north country can put the inhabitants into
a ferment quiet citizens of the south little
dream of; and, by common consent, this
race had come to be regarded in that light.
It was true, Strangford avowed his intention
of coming on \ Herodia to look after his
money, as he said, but nobody had any
belief in his chance, any more than they
had in young Radcliffe's and two or three

Q 2

more, who declared their intention of having
' a ride ' anyway. Neither Crymes nor
Calvert made the slightest disguise about
which of their respective pairs was the best,
and, as Julian Harperley laughingly told
his daughter one night, " The Cid and The
Mumper were as much in mens mouths
round York just now as The Dutchman
and Voltigeur had been in the spring of
the previous year. Both horses had been
out with the hounds upon more than one
occasion since the famous day at Askham
Bog, but their owners rode them somewhat
tenderly, as, with a big race before them,
it was only natural they should. Still
there was no denying that the Major
made much freer use of The Cid than Cis
ever ventured to do of The Mumper. This
occasioned much adverse comment concerning
the black ; it was the opinion of many
that Captain Calvert's horse could not stay,
and that he had a dreadful suspicion of
the fact himself; others again opined that

he was to some extent infirm, and, consequently,
required humouring, while the
thorough-going partisans of The Cid pronounced
The Mumper a crippled miler, and
wondered how any people could be such
fools as to back a horse just because he
could jump, when he was required to gallop
three miles or so besides. It was undeniable
that the weight of popular opinion was
decidedly against The Mumper, not only
in the regiment, but still more so amongst
the members of the hunt. Still there was
a small but staunch division who believed
in that veteran black horse with unswerving-fidelity.
In the regiment the men of his
troop, swayed by that devotion to their
Captain which in days lang syne characterized
the army, and also by the sanguine
prognostications of Tim Murphy, were
on ' to a man. Young Harperley and
a small knot of Calvert's intimates stuck
stoutly to The Mumper, while the banker,
from what he had seen of the horse's

qualities that day at Askham Bog, and
strengthened further in his opinion by
Cis's confidence regarding him, had also
got a modest wager on the black and
crimson sleeves, while as for his daughter,
she was standing those colours for a bale
or so of gloves, and immeasurable quantities
of sweet anxiety for her lover's triumph.

But, on the other hand, Mappin made
no secret of his opinion that there was
never a horse in the — th Lancers could
make The Cid gallop, that he had no belief
whatever in any concealed virtues in The
Mumper, that the horse was a useful old
screw, especially serviceable up in the
cramped Ainsty country, but to talk of
him as a steeple-chaser was simply ridiculous.
Crymes also expressed, for him,
remarkable confidence in The Cid generally,
replying to direct questions by the bland
rejoinder, " I don't know, but I certainly
don't see what's to beat him."

At Byculla Grange also raged contention

and diversity of opinion, for while the
mistress of the establishment pinned her
faith, and gallantly staked her money to
boot, on Major Crymes's white jacket and
violet sleeves, her spouse anathematized
grey horses, and kept persistently piling a
little more on the black, in accordance with
the natural contrariness of his nature.

Yes, madam," he observed viciously one
morning in conclusion to some slight argument
with his wife as to the probable result
of the forthcoming race, "you will be probably
broke in purse and Crymes in neck,
and, upon my soul, I can't pity either of
you," and with a low rumbling about fools
putting their faith in grey horses, &c, Mr.
Charrington gradually rumbled himself into
the stable-yard.

It is the evening before the race, and
Harry Harperley, avid of information, and
restless as young ones are wont to be
before the first bier event which befalls

o

their lives, has hied him into York, and

dropped into Harker's Hotel to see if there
is anything going on. We all know the
old joke about " Paris for fashion, London
for wealth, but gie me Peebles for pleasure,"
and so it was in the capital of the north,
the Black Swan in Coney-street for swells,
Harker's for sport, and the Punchbowl for
devilry. Very busy is Harker's that night,
for Mr. Bilton, the big bookmaker from
Leeds, and many other sporting men have
arrived there for the morrow's races, and
discussion concerning them waxes high.
Very obstinate and cantankerous is that
great betting magnate, Mr. Bilton, showing
an animosity to greys that would have
warmed the heart of the peppery owner of
Byculla Grange. Whether it was too much
port, or whether the salmon had not suited
him, who shall say ? but his ominous six
to four against The Cid gradually extended
to five to two, and when Harperley entered
the smoking-room he had just proffered
three hundred to one hundred against the

Major's horse. York, as a rule, believes
little in a bookmaker being influenced in
his business by either irritability or indigestion,
and the whisper went about, " What
has happened to the Major's horse ? " Bookmakers
in those days, as bookmakers do in
the present, followed the bell-wether like so
many sheep, and the smaller fry were as
anxious to lay against The Cid as if they
had already attended his funeral ; they
knew nothing, but they assumed Bilton
did, and that was quite sufficient reason
for following suit.

There were two or three men present,
who looked like small tradesmen, who every
now and again dribbled a little on The
Mumper, and les antes damned, the backers
who for the most part are just as sheep-like
as their adversaries, the fielders, began to
nibble freely in that direction. So much
did the furore concerning the black increase,
that before Young Harperley left the room
he saw Cis Calvert's horse established a

strong first favourite at 7 to 4, while 4 to 1
was freely offered against The Cid. Very
elate was the Cornet, as after riding back to
barracks with the intelligence, he burst into
the ante-room and published it. Thereon
the followers of the Major were dumb-foundered,
while those of Calvert were
proportionately elated. As for the principals,
neither of them happened to be
present, so the gathering men left to muse
over the mutability of the equine stock
exchange with what equanimity they might.
There was a gathering that night in the
bar parlour of the Punchbowl, and from
time to time dropped in divers sporting
spirits, who having previously peeped in at
Harker's, brought the news that there was
something apparently wrong with The Cid,
as they were laying against him " terrible
free in Sampson-square," and pasting the
money down on that old black horse of
Captain Calvert's, which Mappin, it was
well known, had said was of no use whatever.

A small knot of men, of whom Tom
Blundell was one, exchanged meaning
glances on receipt of this intelligence, recognizing,
as they did, the master hand of
Isham Boggs in the manipulation of the
betting market. That mysterious potentate
was not present himself. He rarely was on
such occasions, and deprecated nothing so
much as the dubious celebrity of a public
character. He had had fame thrust upon
him on one or two occasions, and held it
undesirable and inconvenient. There are
walks in life in which it is against one's
interest to be readily recognized of the
public, as in the case of the detective policeman,
the burglar, the inquiring philanthropist,
&c. Photography in those days was
barely in existence, or there would have
been nobody to inveigh louder than Isham
against the preposterous vanity that
prompted display of one's likeness in shop
windows. He was given to do, if not
exactly good, still whatever he did do by

stealth, and quite content to trust that, like
virtue, it should bring its own reward, only
I am afraid that the incorrigible Isham
vrould have expressed infinite belief in his
doings being more profitable than virtue,
while it was not probable that any moralist
would confound the two.

If ever there was an adorer of Sheridan
it was Thomas Blundell. The sect of the
devil-worshippers is by no means confined
to Asia, but has numberless ramifications in
more civilized countries. Blunders admiration
for a clever scoundrel was always great,
but for a successful leg it was unbounded.
He regarded Isham as other men might
a great statesman, a celebrated poet, or a
distinguished soldier; he had reverenced
the unknown Miles Lane, reputed to have
been concerned with every extensive Turf
robbery for the last twenty years, but his
veneration for this personage since he had
met him in the flesh as Isham Boggs was
unlimited. The great Boggs having vouchsafed

to take this little affair in hand, and
decreed that The Cid was to win, why, of
course, he would win. Of that Blundell
entertained no doubt, and it was in the
most jubilant frame of mind regarding the
morrow that he walked home from the
Punchbowl.

A soft grey December morning heralded
the day fixed for the decision of the
momentous question as to whether The
Cid or Cis Calvert's black were the better
animal. Society around York peeped from
its windows with no little anxiety as it clad
itself in shining raiment, for only let the
weather be fine, and the races were bound
to be great fun. The Lancers had been
profuse in the matter of invitations to
lunch, and society had due warrant for
supposing itself in for a pleasant outing.
Many a fair girl robed herself in fur and
velvet that misty morning, in great trepidation
as to what the skies might have in
store ; but perhaps no maiden of them all

felt so nervous as Annie Aysgarth. It was
a good deal more than spoilt silks or lost
gloves to her this tournament, little as she
dreamed what it was to be in reality ; but
she knew Cis had rash and heavy bets upon
it, which he could badly afford to lose,
and that was enough to make her nervous,
let alone the thought that gruesome falls
sometimes betide those who ride steeplechases.
She had not been able to conceal
her fears from Cis himself only the night
before, and he had made light of her
anxiety.

Nonsense, sweet," he laughed, " I know
how to fall, never fear about that, and I
really do think I shall beat Crymes. Harry
and I tried The Mumper and Red Lancer on
the Knavesmire the other morning, and over
two miles Harry on the black gave me lOlbs.
sand a handsome beating."

It is very foolish of me I know, Cis
dear ; but I shall be wretched till you are
safe past the winning-post. In front, I

hope, but I confess it will be a relief to me
when it's all over."

You're a foolish young woman," rejoined
her lover, as he kissed her ; "but mind
you've bays with which to crown the victor's
manly brow when he returns to your side
in the first flush of his triumph ; and yes,
Annie darling, a beaker of something cooling
to assuage his manly thirst. Don't look
shocked, there was a deal of thirst about the
Homeric period."

You need not fear my looking shocked ;
you will be welcomed with jubilant smiles,
believe me."

Still, in spite of all this reassuring love
talk, Miss Aysgarth felt unaccountably
nervous as she stepped into the mail
phaeton which was to convey herself and
her father to Crocker Hill that 12th of
December.

There was a gallant array on the hill
when they arrived. A temporary Stand
had been erected, and was crowded with

the officers and their friends. A large
marquee had been pitched at the back, and
consecrated to unlimited refreshment, while
right and left of the Stand were numerous
carriages, tapering off to tax-carts and more
humble vehicles, as they receded from that
vantage point. In front of the Stand a
regular ring had been fenced in, and it was
evident that no inconsiderable amount of
business was being transacted therein. Mr.
Bilton was, of course, the leading spirit, but
there were plenty of his confreres who conducted
business on a smaller scale, the
majority of whom were of that class known
bv the designation of bagmen. ' The Vase
open to the gentlemen of the York and
Ainsty, had been ruu, and produced a
capital race, resulting in the triumph of an
outsider by half a length ; and now the
event of the day stood next on the programme.
The bookmakers were having a
busy time of it, for the Tykes seemed benton
having a bet of some sort on the Cup.

Sheer weight of money had brought The
Cid once more to the fore in the betting, and
he had recovered the position he had lost on
the preceding evening in a great measure.

Most of the hunting men and the farmers
were backing him, his owner and the
majority of the regiment were standing by
him, and yet Bilton never tired of laying,
and his brethren of the mystic circle
followed suit. The Mumper still ruled first
favourite, although he had but a small
following in comparison with The Cid, and
could boast of being little more than half a
point before his great rival in the quotations.
It was curious to note that he was backed
chiefly by the York people and strangers in
contradistinction to the country gentlemen
and farmers, who, with a few exceptions,
went for the Major's horse. Of the other
three runners, for the field had dwindled
down to five, Mr. Strangford's Herodia was
fancied by a few who had seen him go well
on her in the hunting-field, and Eadcliffe

VOL. I. R

had a few believers in him, who entrusted
Gil Bias with their investments for the like
reason, but Captain Calvert's Ked Lancer,
ridden by young Harperley, was friendless.
People rarely do back the second string of a
stable, and yet it is curious how often the
crack succumbs to it. Did not the first
favourite for the Derby in the present year
canter away from his stable companion
at Ascot last, while the owner and his
friends only awoke to his excellence after
losing their money on the other ?

Some little way from the Stand, but still
quietly edged into an excellent position
amongst vehicles of much more pretension,
was a York fly. Seated in it, engaged in
earnest conversation, were Isham Boggs and
Tom Blundell.

And your horse, you say, is as well as
can be wished ? " said the former worthy,
sharply.

The Cid is as fit as I know how to make
one. In my judgment, Mr. Boggs, he don't

want another hour's preparation. He ought
to win right out on his own merits unless
The Mumper is a deal bigger horse than I
think he is."

Very good. You must be off now.
Your master will be wanting you. Listen
to me. Mind you come back here the
minute the Major has mounted, and wait
for me. There will be fifty pounds into
your hand when we next meet ; but mind I
do find you here, because it's just possible
your horse mayn't win if I don't."

Why, what on earth can I have to do
with it ? "

Good heavens, man ! is this any time
to ask questions ? " exclaimed Isham, impatiently.
" Your master may be inquiring
for you this minute. Go, but don't forget
what I have told you."

Tom Blundell said no more, but darted
off to where his subordinate was leading
The Cid quietly about, imbued with more
veneration for Isham Boggs than ever.

R 3

The excitement is rising in the Stand,
wherein most of the heroes of the coming-fray
are now congregated, their gay silken
jackets concealed by overcoats.

What devil prompted Horace Crymes it
is impossible to say, but he was suddenly
impelled to crave Miss Aysgarth's blessing
on his cause, knowing though he did that
it could be hardly hoped for. " Won't you
wish me good luck ? " he said, softly, to the
banker's daughter. " I think I should about
win if I only carried your good wishes."

I am sorry, Major Crymes, but both my
bets and my sympathies are elsewhere. You
can't expect me, you know," she continued,
laughing, "to so utterly ignore my own
interests as to wish the success of The Cid."

"No," he said, with a mocking smile,
but I also have interests to protect, Miss
Aysgarth. I number a large following here
to-day, and I am bad to beat when in
earnest. I was never more so than I am
now ; the result of this race seems somehow

to symbolize the result of something else
that I have set my heart on, and I can give
you no better advice than to hedge. The
black and crimson will go down before the
white and violet, believe me."

He turned away quickly, before she could
answer him, and was making his way out of
the Stand, when he was arrested by Mrs.
Charrington's voice.

One moment, Major Crymes, before you
go. I must wish you all luck in the tour-nay
; remember I have pinned my faith on
your colours, and, should The Cid fail me,
am a ruined woman. Good luck attend
you, Horace," she added, in a lower tone,
and don't be rash, if only for my sake."

Both women looked nervously after
Crymes as he quitted the Stand, though
from not exactly the same motives. Mrs.
Harrington really was more earnest than
she was wont to be in her flirtations, and
did know that bad falls occurred in steeplechasing,
as when out-paced horses are called

upon to jump must be the case, however
clever they may be, while Miss Aysgarth
was much perturbed at the Major's last
speech. She knew, as women always do
know, that devoted though he might be to
Mrs. Charrington, he was also an admirer
of herself, but she had never pictured his
admiration as taking practical form before,
and yet, if be did not cherish some hope
of avowing it, what could his last words
mean ? Let them mean what they might,
one thing was conclusive, they contained a
menace to Cis as regarded the forthcoming
race, and she was so anxious that he should
be hailed the winner, not only because of
the heavy bets he had upon it, but because
of some small superstitions of her own that
had come to associate it with her marriage
very much in the manner Horace Crymes
had darkly hinted.

The crowd bean now to throng; the rails
of the ' run in ' to see the horses canter
before going down to the starting-post, which

laid a little to the left of the Stand, and the
first to make its appearance was The
Mumper ; plain and common-looking he
was pronounced by the lookers-on, and the
north country race-goers know a horse when
they see one. but for all that he w T as pronounced
a nice goer when Cis Calvert, after
the preliminary march past, brought him
back again at a smart canter. Herodia,
Eed Lancer, and Gil Bias followed.
Nice looking hunters, said the talent, but
they don't steal over the ground like that
old black, and lastly came Crymes upon
The Cid. The Major brought his horse
clown again at a good rattling gallop, and
a slight murmur of applause greeted the
handsome grey as he swept by with his
long, easy stride.

Not the sort to be prejudiced against,
Charrington," said Julian Harperley, " not
yet spite the man, from the way we've seen
him go."

I don't believe in The Cid," remarked

the other grimly. " Mark me, Calvert will
make a mess of him to-days'

The horses walk quietly down to the
starting-post, gather together for a few
minutes in a group, then the flag falls, and
they are away.

The Mumper leads ! " exclaims one of
those intelligent race-goers who can never
by any accident get the colours into his
head.

Nothing of the sort," retorted Mr. Charrington
sharply; "can't you see that's the
second colour — black, red sleeves, and blackcap
; that's Ked Lancer, and, by Jove !
he's leading them a cracker. Herodia
second, in green, and Gil Bias, in the pink
and black cap close up, The Mumper's
lying fourth (you may know him by the redcap),
and The Cid's waiting on him."

Harry Harperley meanwhile was fulfilling
his mission, which was to make running for
Cis Calvert. Strangford on Herodia kept
close with him for the best of all possible

reasons ; lie knew his mare could stay fora
week, but she was not fast, and her sole
chance of winning was to lie in front all the
way. and trust to her opponents cutting
their throats. If he once let them get away
from her he knew she had not speed enough
ever to catch them again. As for young
Eadcliffe, as he frankly said, he meant
having ' a ride he didn't affect much
jockeyship, and prudently held, under these
circumstances, he had best keep with the
leaders as long as he could, and quietly
succumb when he found that no longer
possible. He had very slight hope of winning,
sand had indeed backed The Cid
for a pony, though he would have willingly
jobbed the last ounce out of his horse to
win the Cup.

Bed Lancer was a fine fencer, and
Harry Harperley streamed away with the
lead, jealously attended by Herodia and
Gil Bias, while as for the two leading
characters in the drama they laid off,

watching one another like two practised
duellists when first confronted. No change
occurred in the order of running' till nigh
half the course was compassed, by which
time the three in front held such a commanding
lead, that a cry rose from the
Stand, " They'll never catch them. By
heavens, the two favourites are out of it ! "

The very next fence made a change in
the aspect of things, for slipping up at the
take off, Gil Bias tumbled ignominiously
into the next field, leaving his rider to taste
earth and see stars, and enjoy all the luxuries
of a regular crumpled. But no sooner had
he cleared the jump than it appeared to Cis
Calvert it was getting high time to get on
terms with his leaders, and gradually he
commenced lessening the gap between them,
while the dangerous Cid hung tenaciously
at his quarters. Still Eed Lancer raced
away with the command, till as they
rounded the flag for home Harry Harperley
felt that his bolt was shot, and without a

struggle yielded the lead to Strangford.
Cool as ever, the latter steadied his mare,
and with a quaint chuckle remarked to himself,
" Two of them cooked ! but oh, dear, I
suppose I shall have the swells alongside
directly full of running, and we can't go
much faster, can we, old woman ? "

Herodia was doing her best, and her
rider knew it. Scant hope of his winning
the cup, if he were collared, and just as he
arrived at this conclusion he became conscious
of The Mumper creeping up on
his whip hand. One glance at the black
told him he was out of it, for Calvert's horse
was striding along, full of running, and
as fresh apparently as when he started.
Another second and the grey appeared on
the off side, also going strong and well.

A race between you, gentlemen ! " cried
Strangford, as they passed him, "but I'D
follow on just to see the finish."

Cis had now taken the lead, and was
making the pace hot. For the first time

in the race the Major's face darkened, and
there was a slight nervous twitch of his
upper lip. They were fairly in the straight
run in, and niggling a little at his horse,
and kneeing him a bit besides, Crymes ran
up to take a feeler. He set his teeth grimly
as the fact dawned upon him that the old
black had the heels of him, and his sole
chance laid in giving him a fall. There
were but three fences now over which to doit,
and Crymes deliberately drove The Cid
at the next stake and binder with a view to
putting his adversary down by rushing him
at his fence. But Cis, lying a good length
and a half ahead, and finding his horse
going strong and well, had made up his
mind to come straight away, and stand no
more nonsense. He shook up The Mumper,
and, to the Major's surprise, went right
away from him. Putting him down was
out of the question, for the black, when it
came to racing, was unmistakably the
quicker horse of the two, and catch him

Chymes could not. He rode the race out
steadily and automatically, as usual, on
the off chance, but Cis Calvert passed the
winning-post a good half-dozen lengths in
front of him, and the Major was too good
a sportsman to cut up a beaten horse in
hopeless pursuit.

Chucked away ! chucked away ! " exclaimed
Mr. Boggs, as he witnessed the
finish of the race. "Why the old black
beggar's a stone better than I thought
him."

"Yes," rejoined Mr. Blundell, ruefully,
"it is as you say, ' chucked away Our
good thing is about as handsomely spilt as
any milk I ever saw handed about. I did
think you knew The Mumper's form, at all
events."

"You think!" said Boggs, "don't you
overheat those precious brains of yours by
thinking. There's your fifty in Bank of
England notes ; and now off with you like
a sky-rocket, and hand that note to your

master at once. Tell him it's immediate,
and to read it before he weighs in. Off
with you, quick, if you ever expect to seethe
other fifty."

That fifty pounds in his hand, and the
ascendancy Isham had acquired over him,
sufficed to send Blundell best pace in
pursuit of his master.

Horace Crymes, very sore at heart, was
walking his horse slowly back to the
saddling enclosure, when Blundell met
him, and handed him the note with which
he had been entrusted. The Major had lost
a biggish stake on the race, and money was
money to him just now, but it was not
that, he was far too practised a trite to
succumb under a reverse. No prouder man
ever stepped than Crymes, and the result
•of the race had wounded him sorely on that
point. Where was his bitter boast to Miss
Aysgarth now? How shall he ever bear
Harrington's cackle over the proverbial
softness of grey horses ? He had gone

down in front of the ladies' gallery, and his
character for omniscience in everything
sporting would no longer be a recognized
fact in the regiment.

He crushed the note mechanically in his
hand as Blundell led The Cid into the
paddock, slipped lightly off his horse, unearthed
the saddle, and, throwing it over
his arm, walked mechanically towards the
weighing-room.

The note, sir, the note ! " whispered
Blundell, eagerly. " I don't know what's in
it, but I was bid tell you to read it before
you got into the scales."

Crymes looked at him for a minute, and
then, entering the w r sighing-room, gazed
sullenly at his successful adversary, who,
saddle in lap, was going through the crucial
test of Turf victory. He dropped his eyes,
and, opening the paper in his hand, glanced
over it.

A triumphant smile sw T kept across his dark
face as he did so, and no sooner had Calvert

vacated the scales than Crymes seated himself
lightly in his place. Hardly had the
clerk pronounced ' all right ' than the
Major, rising to his feet, exclaimed, " Is
there a steward present ? "

Of course, Crymes. What is it % " replied
Colonel Copplestone.

A somewhat unpleasant business, sir, I
am afraid, but I have no alternative. If
it was my own money only it might go to
the devil, but I have a large following who
have staked their money on The Cid, and
that leaves me nothing to do but to enter
a formal objection against The Mumper as
being a well-known steeple-chaser, and as
such utterly unqualified to run for a regimental
race. Captain Calvert's black horse,
The Mumper, is better known as the Black
Doctor, and has hit the ring hard many
times down Warwick and Worcester way."

Good God, Crymes ! are you sure you
have warrant for what you say ? "

"It's not likely, Colonel, I should make

such, a charge unless I deemed I had
conclusive evidence. "

And in the doorway stood two men,
paralyzed by these terrible words, Cis
Calvert and Julian Harperley, who had
come to congratulate him on his success.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XL

THE OBJECTION.

For a few seconds Cis stood spell-bound
by the charge brought against him ; then
he stepped rapidly back into the weighing-room,
and, in a voice tremulous with passion,
exclaimed —

Whether this is the case or not, do you
mean to insinuate, Major Crymes, that I
have wittingly run this horse as The
Mumper, being aware all the time that he
was a well-known steeple-chaser \ "

I should hope not' rejoined Crymes
coldly, " though, considering the manner in
which you have backed him, I am afraid

the world will perhaps put an ugly construction
on your mistake. No, don't
interrupt me for one moment, Calvert. I
knew nothing about this till the race was
run, or I should have told you what I had
heard. The information reached me on my
way here just now. I have my backers
both in the regiment and elsewhere ; in
their interests I am bound to enter this
protest."

But, good God ! " cried Cis, " whether
this story is true or no, you can surely not
believe that I knew anything about the
horse's private history ? You know how I
bought him."

I must decline any discussion of the
subject, and allow me to point out, have
made no sort of accusation against you.
This is all matter for the stewards, not for
you or me."

"Excuse me!" cried Cis hotly, "you
know perfectly well that if you accuse me
of entering a well-known steeple-chaser in

S 2

another name, and my brother officers
believe that charge, I am a ruined man."

As I have already remarked' returned
Crymes, with exasperating coolness, " I
make no accusation of any kind."

Liar ! " cried Cis furiously ; " what else
is your objection ? what else can it mean ? "

For a second a savage scowl darkened the
Major's face, and he took a quick step or
two towards his opponent, then mastering
himself with a mighty effort he turned and
said in low-measured tones — " Colonel
Copplestone, I put myself in your hands
both as a steward and my commanding
officer." Simultaneously Julian Harperley
secured Cis by the arm, and said, " For
heaven's sake, my good fellow, restrain
yourself ! "

Captain Calvert, you will return at once
to barracks, and consider yourself under
arrest," exclaimed the Colonel. " Such
language you well know can be tolerated to
no brother officer, more especially to one

your senior in rank. Your objection, Major
Crymes, will of course be due subject of
inquiry for myself and brother stewards at
once, and you will of course produce such
evidence as you consider necessary to
substantiate such a very serious charge."

Foaming with passion, it was perhaps
questionable whether Cis would have yielded
to Julian Harperley's remonstrance, but the
habit of discipline is strong, and the curt,
pithy order of his Colonel curbed him at
once, and touching his cap to the chief he
turned to obey his command.

Outside the weighing-room he was met by
Harry Harperley and other friends, who had
come to congratulate him on his success,
but already the ominous whisper of an
objection had got about, and instead of
felicitations they inquired anxiously what
was the matter ?

Trouble's the matter, Harry," said poor
Cis, quickly, " trouble more than I can quite
understand as yet. I'm in an awful mess,

boy. Steal or borrow me a hack, and bring
it up here at once. I've to ride back to
barracks at once. I'm in arrest."

He had all the audacity natural to the
cornet of a crack regiment, but c arrest ' to
his youthful mind, having reference to an
officer, presented a disturbed vision of pains,
penalties, and disgrace beyond apprehension.
Not only was he very fond of Cis himself,
but he knew instinctively that this would
bring sore sorrow upon his sister besides,
and he loved her very dearly, if he did
not know of her tacit engagement, he, at all
events, was quite awake to Cis being what
he called ' heavy spoons ' on Annie, and the
arrangement met with this young gentleman's
unqualified approval. It was with a
sad heart he hurried off to find his own
horse, and bring it up for his captain to ride
home on.

Mr. Harperley," exclaimed Cis, " I trust
you don't believe this infamous accusation ! "

Bearing in mind that you know nothing

about the horse," rejoined the banker, " I
am afraid that Major Crymes is perhaps
better informed. Eemember, I say distinctly
that I believe you know nothing
about the horse, but you must forgive me
adding that, though I can make every allowance
for your unfortunate loss of temper, I
am afraid it has dreadfully complicated the
business. At present, if you will allow me
to be your adviser, I think there is nothing
for you but to do what you propose ; ride
quietly home, and await the upshot of
events."

If he didn't say I was a downright leg,
he insinuated it," retorted Cis angrily.

It was a cruel charge to have brought
against one, and that your blood should boil
over far from unnatural, but as a looker on,
Calvert, I must testify that Major Crymes
brought his objection forward without
throwing the slightest imputation upon
yourself. He, to divest it of sporting
phraseology, denounced a fraud, but he

certainly did not denounce you in connection
with it."

"Perhaps not in words, but he did in
manner," rejoined Cis sullenly.

No, I can hardly bear you out in that.
Remember, you were naturally excited, and
imagined innuendos that were never intended.
Pray don't think I am either
deserting you, much less taking part against
you, but if Crymes proves his case it is
bound to prove an unpleasant business.
No one will be more glad to see you
triumphantly through it than I shall."

And you will tell Annie you still believe
in me," said Cis in a low voice, as Harry
reappeared, followed by his groom leading
his horse.

If Crymes proves his assertion," rejoined
Julian Harperley, "that is nothing.
As I said just now, he has never alleged
that you were cognizant of the imposture."

"Good-bye"' rejoined Cis, as he swung
himself into the saddle ; then leaning over

to young Harperley he said, " Come and
tell me, Harry, what they decide about the
objection. I can only solemnly declare that
if it is so, Crymes knows a great deal more
about the horse than I do."

All who have had anything to do with
racing know what a stir and confusion an
objection creates. The Major's protest was
quite in accordance with the usual ordering
of such things ; considerable consternation
on the part of not only the backers of The
Mumper, but also on that of Mr. Belton
and some of the leading ring men, who
had been somehow inspired to lay more
than was good for them against The Cid.
In the Stand, amongst the ladies, curiosity
was on tiptoe to know the true state of
the case, but none of the actors in the
drama reappeared.

Where was Major Crymes ? " asked Mrs.
Charrington. " Where was Captain Calvert
? Mr. Harperley, &c. ? what was the
objection ? who objected ? who then had

won ? " Such were the questions bandied
about, and for the answering of which, no
reliable male creature could be found available.
At last came intelligence that The
Mumper was not The Mumper, but alleged
to be something else ; what, rumour was
not so clear about. He was a steeplechaser
of distinction, he had won races
here, there, everywhere ; he had won the
Liverpool, he had won it twice, thrice ; the
absurdity of describing such an animal asa
hunter ! Could this have been an accident
? Somebody must have known. Somebody
must have meant winning money over
it ? Who ? and then somehow a whisper
got about that Captain Calvert had backed
his horse for a big stake. First it was
told that there had been a violent scene
in the weighing-room between the Major
and Cis Calvert, and that the latter had
left the course in high dudgeon ; and flu ally
it was darkly hinted that Captain Calvert
had left the course in obedience ot the

strongly-expressed recommendation of the
stewards, who had pronounced him guilty
of practice somewhat sharper than could be
tolerated amongst gentlemen in Yorkshire.

Poor Annie Aysgarth sat feeling utterly
miserable whilst all these cards surged
around her ; not a quarter of an hour
ago, and, with triumphant smile on lip
and brow, she was eagerly waiting to greet
her lover as he returned the recognized
hero of the day ; and now why did he not
come to her ? How dare these women even
hint such foul shame concerning him I
Where was her father ? Where was Harry ?
The girl had plenty of pluck, and believed
thoroughly in Cis. She would laugh to
scorn the suggestion that he could be guilty
of aught dishonourable. She would have
pledged her life upon his truth and loyalty
in any matter, and it was exceeding bitter
to her to listen to all these evil whispers
concerning him, and not to be able to
break a lance in his defence. More than

once her indignation nearly overcame her
better judgment, and prompted her to flash
out and ask fiercely, "You know Captain
Calvert most of you ; what have you ever
seen in him to induce you to think that
he would do anything dishonourable ? In
common justice give the benefit the law
allows, and hold him innocent till he is
proved guilty." But then, unluckily, she
was not openly affianced to this man, and
so shrank, as was natural, from taking up
the cudgels in his behalf.

Very right was Miss Aysgarth theoretically,
but practically she would have clone
little good had she given her thoughts
words. A man is held guiltless in the
eye of the law till he is proved guilty,
but in the eye of society ! bah ! we know
it is exactly the reverse ; he is held guilty
till he proves his innocence. It is this at
times makes hard the pleasant fictions of
society's journals. In the days when The
Mumper won the Cup these conservators

of the public morals did not exist ; it was
possible to commit card-sharping at Nice,
and not have it advertised the same week
in London ; divers peccadilloes might be
then freely indulged iu, and the world
none the wiser, but in these times, good
lack ! we must look well to our morals,
and — and — well, let us hope at least they've
improved.

At last Mr. Harperley makes his appearance
in search of his daughter, and has to
run a very gauntlet of interrogatories, to
which he responds, that he believes the
stewards have not yet given their decision,
but that he understands The Mumper will
be probably disqualified, having won a
public steeple-chase or two before he came
into Captain Calvert's hands, though quite
unknown to that gentleman.

Come along, Annie," he whispers, " the
carriage is at the back of the Stand, and
I don't think the Farmers' Race worth our
waiting for under the circumstances. I

will tell you what has happened, as far
as I know, presently, but it is a very
unpleasant affair, and has taken all the
fun out of the meeting. From Colonel
Copplestone down to Harry the — th
Lancers are looking; glum as undertakers
over the result. Winners or losers, it
seems to make little difference. Come,
child, at once, I want to get away without
further questioning."

The girl takes her father's arm, and as
they make their way out she catches
glances, shrugs, and half smothered whispers,
and knows that they are talking
about her, as if it were possible to keep
such secrets as that of her tacit engagement
with Cis ; and once more the indignant
blood mantles in her face, for she
feels that they are pitying her on account
of her lover, and to a proud young woman
such as Annie Aysgarth, who gloried and
believed implicitly in her sweetheart, could
anything be more humiliating ? As they

drove back to The Firs, Julian Harperley
told his daughter as much as he had been
able to gather of the affair, but as the
banker had not been present at the conference
of the stewards, he was not much
wiser concerning the racing objection than
he had been in the first instance, but he
had seen what may be termed the military
embroglio, and did not hesitate to tell
Annie that he feared Cis, by loss of temper,
had very much further complicated an
already sufficiently awkward business.

The girl was silent for a second, then
she said, in clear resonant tones, " Neither
you nor I, papa, could imagine Cis doing
anything dishonourable, but I am grieved
about this quarrel with Major Crymes.
It is likely to create prejudice against
him."

She would not have realized what such
breach of military etiquette as Cis had
committed really involved, even if her
father had told her, but the banker had

described the scene in the weighing-room
as "high words passed between Crymes and
Calvert," without specifying that one significant
monosyllable which from time
immemorial it has been held that no
gentleman can pass over.

But it speedily became apparent that all
life was crushed out of the company
assembled in the Stand. That vague
feeling of something having gone wrong,
which suffices to so rapidly break up any
party of pleasure, was evidently abroad.
Neither Major Crymes nor young Harperley
reappeared, and, though Colonel Couples
and some of the officers did their best
to keep things going, yet there was a
general stampede. It was of course known
that The Mumper had been disqualified
for having, unknown to his owner, won a
.public steeple-chase previously ; but society,
as it made its way home from Crackle
Hill, came to the conclusion that there was
more to tell than had leaked out as yet.

Harry Harperley, as one of the gentlemen
riding in the race, had of course no
trouble in making his way into the weio-h-
king-room. where the stewards, consisting
of two officers of the Lancers and three
well-known members of the Hunt, were
sitting in judgment. Crymes briefly stated
his case, pointed out that this knowledge
had only come to him after the race was
run, and that, in justice to his numerous
backers, he had no alternative but to bring
it before the stewards.

The evidence was overwhelming, there
could be no doubt that The Mumper and
the Black Doctor were one and the same
horse, and that under the latter name he
had a few years back been a steeple-chase
horse of no little celebrity. The Mumper
was accordingly disqualified, and the race
awarded to The Cid.

Harry Harperley had only stayed to
hear the decision. Xo sooner was it pronounced
than he jumped into Radcliffe's

VOL. I.

whitechapel,' which was waiting for him
at the back of the Stand. That young
gentleman was his sworn ally, and, like
himself, a firm believer in Cis Calvert, and
the pair were very seriously concerned
about the aspect of things. The insult Cis
had passed upon Crymes had certainly not
been before all the world, as the saying
goes, but still there had been some half-dozen
people present, and something of
the truth had already oozed out. When
six people conspire, one usually acquaints
those whom it is most desirable to keep
in ignorance with all particulars ; though
in Ireland I am told six conspirators produce
as a rule seven informers, and judging
from the cacoethes loquendi displayed by
Irish members of Parliament, it is easy to
imagine so ; therefore it was not to be much
wondered at that some account of the
quarrel between the two men was about.

I shall be at mess, Radcliffe," said
Harry, as the trap pulled up in front of

the officers' quarters, "if it is only to hear
what our fellows think of all this business.
In the mean time I must run up and tell
Calvert what the stewards' decision was."
Eadcliffe nodded. " It's rough on him, but
this row with Crymes is the trouble. I
don't think any one in the regiment would
believe Cis was wittingly committing a
fraud, and any horse that has ever won
public money is, we know, not qualified
to run for the Cup."

Calvert was sitting, looking; somewhat
moodily into the fire, when the cornet
entered, but roused himself immediately,
and exclaimed, " Now, Harry, let's hear all
about it. I fancy Crymes knows a deal
more about The Mumper than I do."

The Major first made his objection,
as you may suppose, laying particular stress
upon the point that he knew nothing of
The Mumper's history till after the race.
Then that Dick Hunsley Mappin told us
of appeared, there were plenty there who

T 2

knew him, and stated he had bought the
horse in the spring of last year in Warwickshire
; that he knew him as the Black
Doctor, and his performances were on record
in the ' Calendar ' ; he had bought him merely '
to hunt, and changed his name, as he didn't
want to be chaffed about riding a steeplechaser.
He told of whom he had bought
him, and the groom who had fetched the
horse from Warwickshire was there to
testify to the fact ; but further than that
he had fetched the horse from there at the
time stated, his evidence was of little consequence,
as he did not know the horse's
name. Hunsley next produced a letter,
dated a few days back, in which William
Gurwood stated, in answer to a letter he
had received on the question, that he had
sold the Black Doctor, by Dicebox out
of Ebony, to Richard Hunsley on the 20 th
of April, '51, for value received."

And they seemed to think there was no
doubt about this story ? " asked Cis.

Xo ; they sent for Mappin, who gave the
same account of how The Mumper came into
his possession that he had already given to
you. The story sounded only too true, and
as that precious rascal, Dick Hunsley, said,
If I'm not telling the truth, gentlemen, it's
mighty easy to send into Warwickshire and
see Gurwood ; you've got his address."

Yes, it can scarcely be a vamped-up
story, but it is hard lines the terrible scrape
it has sot me into."

Well, now there comes a point which
I can't help thinking was in your favour.
You don't for one moment suppose, Cis, that
any of us doubt your good faith in the
business," interposed the boy quickly, " but
there are some don't know you as we do."

You're loyal, very loyal, to your captain,
Harry," replied Calvert with a faint smile.

As if we w r on't all stand by you ; but
what I was going to say was this : — Charrington,
a steward, as you know, although
he declined to act on this occasion, having,

as he said, bets on the race, was present ;
suddenly he scribbled a few lines on a leaf
of his betting-book, and passing it to the
chief, said, ' I think, Colonel Copplestone,
you would find it useful to ask this question.'
The chief showed it to the other
officials, and then with their assent inquired :

' Why, Mr. Hunsley, knowing all this,
did you not interfere earlier ? '

M ' It was no business of mine,' was the
sulky response.

' But there has been plenty of betting
in York about this race ; there was a good
deal, for instance, T understand, at Harker's
last night. You must have known all the
time that The Mumper had no right to
start. Why did you not let Captain Calvert
or some of us know the state of the case ? '

For a second Dick Hunsley looked
puzzled, then a sullen scowl darkened his
face. ' Well, if you will have the truth,
gentlemen, you shall. Why didn't I ?
Because it suited my book not to do so. I

had a score to settle, and money to get by
it, and I've been racing too long not to
collar coin when I can, and cry quits with
those who've put me in the hole. The man
who sold me up was backing The Mumper,
and I — well, I backed the Cid.'

' Thank you, Mr. Hunsley, I don't think
we need trouble you further,' said the chief,
and that's how the case stands, Cis."

I should hope Hunsley's evidence is
sufficient to exonerate me from all imputation
of knowing The Mumper's previous
history," replied Calvert, "but I am in a
big scrape besides that. I am in arrest, as
you know, and can hardly guess how that
matter will finish ; then I've had a baddish
race of it besides. I only hope you hadn't
much on The Mumper."

No, I took that two hundred to fifteen
from Strangford, and had a tenner on my
mount, that's all. I've lost a pony, and
that matters little, but I'm terribly grieved
about you."

"Pooh!" rejoined Cis, "I shall pull
through. Give my love to your sister, tell
her what you have told me, and tell her —
you can, Harry, can't you ? — that you don't
believe I am capable of such a piece of
rascality as winning the Cup by a shameful
fraud. That I rode and won in all innocence
that my horse was anything but the
hunter I bought him as."

I don't think any one of your friends
will ever suppose anything else," cried
Harry, with a slight gulp in his throat. He
was cruelly hurt at the foul imputations he
had already heard whispered against his
captain, and had not learnt to avoid display
of his best feelings as we do mostly later
on in life. " Now I must run away and
dress for mess," and Cis and his cornet
exchanged one of those hand grips into
which Englishmen condense a flood of
sentimental language.

But when Harry Harperley had left the
room, Cis reverted to that very much

grimmer view of the situation be had been
musing over before the youngster had
entered. He knew that his quarrel with
Crimes might probably become a serious
thing for him, so serious, indeed, as to
necessitate his retirement from the service ;
then he had lost, for him, a very heavy sum
of money, and unluckily the bulk of it to
Crymes, all of which had to be forthcoming
in two or three days. Two circumstances
these to make the victim thereof regard the
last twelve hours as an ill spent day. How
marvellously penitent and filled with good
intentions I have seen men on the day after
the Derby ; but to what extent rancorous
tongues, combined with unfortunate appearances,
can mar a man's life Cis has yet to
learn. A very imperfect idea as to what
constitutes hard lines as yet seething in his
brain.

End OF VOL. I.

AldborougR "Hall

Boroughbridge")

teal

I B Hay

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


5m2h

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hardlinesnovel02smar

VOL. II.

a Hotel.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

Author OF
Breeze Langton," " SOCIAL Sinners," " THE Great TONTIXE."'
AT FAULT," ETC. ETC.

Of all the barbarous middle ages, that
Which is most barbarous is the middle age
Of man ; it is — I really scarce know what ;
But when we hover between fool and sage,
And don't know justly what we would be at —
A period something like a printed page,
Black letter upon foolscap, while our hair
Grows grizzled, and we are not what we were."

"The greatest miracle of love is the reformation of a coquette.

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. II.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL,
Limited.

1883.

'AH. Rights reserved.]

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

EASTWARD HO . . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

A LITTLE TURN UP . . . . 25

CHAPTER III.

THE ROYAL Dunbar . . . . 46

CHAPTER IV.

MRS. Coventry . . . . . 68

CHAPTER V.

A CRITICAL SITUATION . . . . 93

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. Harrington's ADVICE . . . 115

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

HARROGATE . . . . . 136

CHAPTER VIII.
THE MAN FROM MANCHESTER . . . 159

CHAPTER IX.

"YOU MUST RIDE FOR US " . . . 184

CHAPTER X.

NOW BARABBAS WAS A ROBBER . . . 210

CHAPTER XI.

A BITTER QUARREL . . . . 242

CHAPTER XII.

"GOD BLESS AND GUARD YOU, DEAREST" . 270

CHAPTER I.

EASTWARD HO.

People who lose money racing are only
too prone to believe that they have met
with unfair play, but in this case there
could be no doubt that a very serious fraud
had been attempted, and the backers of The
Mumper, who in a very large proportion
hailed from the city of York, were by no
means reticent of speech on the subject.
At Harker's, indeed, Mr. Bilton, and several
minor book-makers who had followed his
lead, and been rather bitten in consequence,
were profuse in their denunciations of what
they termed another of those military

VOL. II. B

swindles. Something had impressed them
with the idea that The Mumper was sure to
win, and they had not scrupled to overlay
their books about The Cid ; not so much by
any means to be pitied as those unfortunates
who had backed the black, and had to go
through that grimmest of all racing experiences,
the winning money and not receiving
it, but, on the contrary, having to part
with their own. To have to pay, say ten
pounds instead of receiving thirty, is wont
to curdle the milk of kindness in the veins
of humanity. Tongues w T axed wicked at
Harker's and elsewhere as they wagged
over the subject, and public opinion was
decidedly coming to the conclusion that
Captain Calvert had planned an artful coup,
had been detected, and ought to be made a
pretty severe example of.

"I was told this Mumper was sure to
win," remarked Mr. Bilton oracularly, "but
the man as gave me the tip didn't know
what the horse was, d'ye see. I wonder

how Major Cities got hold of it ; I suppose
that Hunsley told him."

There was a talk, too, about the race at
the Punchbowl, and a small knot of the
habitues might have been observed to wear
a smile of beatitude, little part as they took
in the conversation. As for Mr. Boggs, he
was not to be seen, and the barmaid, in
reply to inquiries, announced that he had
left, but for where she did not know. The
good man was wont to absent himself after
successful management of little affairs of
this nature ; whether he feared the undue
curiosity of friends, or deprecated their congratulations,
who shall say ? It might have
been he was tender-hearted, and disliked
hearing the wail of those who suffered sorely
from his astute manipulation of the strings.

At the club in St. Leonard's Place there
was, as may be supposed, much talk about
the race, and gradually the idea gained
ground that, protest his innocence as he
might, Calvert had been perfectly cognizant

B 2

of what the horse really was all along, and
had intended a coup with him. It was
argued that Cis had backed The Mumper
heavily in comparison with his usual scale
of betting. It was pointed out that Harry
Harperley had bragged, after that dinner at
Byculla Grange, that his owner knew a good
deal more about the black than the public
dreamed of ; in short, it was not difficult to
give a very ugly complexion to the matter
when you began to collect evidence.

"Those ring men, too," said a veteran
sportsman, who, with his coat-tails subducted
under his arms, was standing on the
hearth-rug, and luxuriating in all the warmth
of the coffee-room fire, "knew something.
They went for The Mumper. Now what
put that into their noddles if they believed
him a black hunter? I fancy there was a.
whisper about that the old horse had shown
himself pretty smart between the flags once
or twice before. "

You're right, Collision," said another.

*' I happen to know Bilton pretty well, and
when I was backing The Cid for a tenner
with him he said, ' I'm afraid you're on the
wrong pea this time, sir, I'm told this is a
real good thing for The Mumper."

It certainly does seem most extraordinary
that any one can buy a well-known
steeple-chaser without being aware of it.
Still T'm told that Mappin declares he knew
nothing about it, and Calvert bought the
horse from him," said a third.

That might be all a blind," rejoined the
first speaker. " That fellow, Hunsley, we
know is a crafty scoundrel. I take it he
bought him, and rechristened him with a
view to something of this sort. To put him
through Mappin's hands was a clever dodge
to disarm suspicion. If Calvert was ignorant
of the horse's real character, what made
him back it as he did ? His own people say
he never risks more than a pony on a race,
and in this case we know he backed his
mount for hundreds. We know the story of

his bet with Crymes on the night of the
entries, and it is no secret he backed his
horse besides on various occasions, this is
the most awkward thing against him in the
whole business. Heaven knows I don't
want to throw stones at a man who is
said to be in a pretty big scrape besides,
but I think people generally will be hard
to convince of Captain Calvert's ignorance
concerning The Mumper. As for Hunsley,
circumstances not having favoured his committing
a robbery himself, that he should
seize such a chance of turning money as
this offered, is quite in accordance with his
general character, and that he should turn
round upon his confederates precisely what
he might be expected to do. No, if Captain
Calvert is innocent in this matter, then he
is a most unfortunate man, and victim to a
curious combination of events."

The club oracle had spoken, and as all
frequenters of the smaller of these monachal
institutions are aware, when the Collision of

the establishment has taken the hearth-rug,
which does duty for a rostrum, and pronounced
judgment therefrom, the minds of
many men became decided on the point
in discussion. Windbag though the oracle
may be, and utterly incompetent of forming
an opinion on any subject whatever, yet,
till he do be pricked, he shall impose upon
the weaker brethren who lack his lung
power and assurance.

At the mes of the Lancers that nio-ht,
also, was the event of the day discussed
after the cloth was drawn, though in very
much more guarded fashion than it had
been commented on at the Club. Cis was
popular in his corps, and they were very
loth to believe evil of him, indeed the
majority stood staunchly to the dictum
that he was a victim instead of a victimizer,
and yet his stoutest partizans were fain to
admit that the identical point which so
exercised the York Club was difficult to
get over. What had induced him to bet

so very much heavier than his usual habit ?
When we see a man who habitually plays
whist at shilling points suddenly take to
five pound ones, we seek the cause of the
phenomenon, as indeed in social life we
do any extraordinary increase or decrease
apparent in our neighbour's expenditure.
A thing this that would trouble some people
seriously, leading to liver complaint and all
sorts of disturbances of the system till they
got to the rights of things. It certainly
was unfortunate that Cis had, so to speak,
plunged upon this unhappy race. But on
the other point, namely, his insult to
Crymes, the regiment was very much more
divided, and the majority, which numbered
in its ranks most of the senior officers, held
that there Cis Calvert could not be justified,
that the objection had been made in perfect
good faith, and with all courtesy ; no imputation
whatever had been preferred against
Calvert, and that there was no justification
possible for the use of the opprobrious

epithet lie had made use of. Those who
by seniority were best qualified to judge
shook their heads, and opined it would be
apt to go hard with Calvert, though, as they
added meditatively, the # Colonel always
stood to a good man in a scrape, and more
than one story of the irascible martinet's
good deeds was told round the ante-room

o

fire that night.

They did their Chief no more than justice.
No man in the county of Yorkshire, unless
perhaps it was the delinquent himself, was
so utterly upset by the whole thing as
Colonel Copplestone. He liked Calvert,
and believed in him, but, nevertheless, he
saw at once that many people would not
do so, but regard the whole affair as an
iniquitous swindle. The race he foresaw
would be a most unfortunate slur upon the
regiment, a thing ever to be flouted in
their face, and very difficult to disprove.
Then, again, there was the military fiasco
to be dealt with, and that the Colonel felt

must be settled at once. If the Major
would consent to accept an apology there
was no necessity for the thing going further,
but if not, well, then, it would be beyond
his power to arrange, and must be referred
to higher authority. The first thing was
to send for Crymes ; the Major was in his
quarters, and promptly responded to the
summons, and the two men talked the
thing over. Crymes was perfectly willing
to leave himself in the Chiefs hands, and
expressed no vindictive feeling on the
subject.

I don't want to make eating his words
unnecessarily hard for him, sir. If Captain
Calvert will apologize to me here in your
presence and that of the other officers of
his own rank, I shall be content to let the
thing drop."

"Very good, then, I shall consider that
so far settled. You are letting him down
quite as easy as is possible, and he ought
to feel that. I believe him thoroughly

innocent, but it's a doosecl ugly story to
have against one, and a monstrous unpleasant
thing for the regiment."

I have strictly abstained from expressing
any opinion on Captain Calvert's conduct,"
rejoined Crymes ; " but you can hardly
expect the York Club and the neighbourhood
to be so reticent."

And you think their verdict will be
condemnatory ? "

"I think it is very probable that they
will find it difficult to believe that a man
who backed a horse — what for him was
very heavily — almost immediately it came
into his hands, did not know something
about its previous history, Please bear
in mind, Colonel, I don't express these as
my views, and that what I am about to
say is said to you alone. I think there
are many men who will argue that the
very robbery Hunsley intended, and which
the enforced sale of his horses doubtless
prevented, has been carried out by Captain

Calvert, and there is usually much incredulity
displayed as to accidental robbery,"
and Crymes put a cruel inflexion on the
adjective as he finished the sentence. The
Major was right ; loyally though the regiment
as a whole stood to him, and though
he had still many staunch friends in the
neighbourhood, yet Cis Calvert heard from
Harry Harperley and others that the public
verdict was against him, that he was held
guilty of having committed a disgraceful
fraud, which was only betrayed at the last
moment through the treachery of a well-known
scoundrel who had contemplated it
himself.

And then Cis began to realize what this
race had cost him. It was a terrible Paria,
he had not even saved his honour. All
was lost : his commission, he supposed ; the
girl he loved ; money. He was a man
without a future. He would leave York,
not a beggar, but a man whose life was
broken. No wonder that Harry Harperley

told his sister that he never saw a man so
cut up as Cis Calvert was by the foul charge
under which he lay ; and Annie, with eyes
half-blinded with tears and half light enino;
with anger, rushed to her desk and hastened
to scribble a few passionate lines of scornful
disbelief in the calumny, and unswerving
affection on her own part, and bade Harry
take it to the poor prisoner with all speed.
She had pictured him to herself in a cell
when she first heard of his arrest, but rigid
cross-examination convinced her that he was
merely prohibited from leaving his rooms.

That little note, though torture to Cis,
did him good. It braced him up, roused
him from his stupor of despair, and made
him pull himself together. Yes, the first
thing to be done was to write to Julian
Harperley, and while pledging his honour
to being; guiltless of the accusation laid
against him, to, for the present, resign all
pretensions to his daughter's hand. " Till
I have lived down or disproved the stigma

under which I at present stand it can
scarcely be supposed that you will tolerate
me in the light of a son-in-law, and, moreover,
I love Annie far too dearly to think
of inducing her to link her future with one
whom most of her friends regard as a black-leg.
Pray thank her for her trust and belief
in me. It is a consolation to me in my
troubles to know that she still counts me a
gentleman. What my future plans may be
it is impossible for me to decide until I
know the Colonel's intentions. As soon as
I can I shall send you word what they are,
and though I don't venture to ask leave to
say good-bye to Annie, indeed shrink from
the pain such an interview would be to me,
I do claim the privilege of writing her a
farewell letter."

Julian Harperley was meditating over
what steps it behoved him to take in the
matter of this semi engagement of his
daughter when he received Calvert's epistle.
He had no disposition in the world to judge

Cis at all hardly, but he could not shut his
eyes to the fact that his proposed son-in-law
was in a very serious mess" just now. As
far as the affair with Crymes went, Calvert
had lost his temper, and was palpably in the
wrong; while about the race, appearances
were as black as they well could be. The
banker had heard the arguments so tersely
expressed by Crymes from more than one
person that morning. The club coffee-room
at lunch time rang with them. If innocent
of the horse's real character or identity,
what induced Calvert to back it as he did ?
Julian Harperley was a kind man, and not
given to judge his fellow creatures harshly ;
moreover, he knew this would be a sad blow
to his daughter, but he could not make up
his mind to a verdict of ' not guilty.' The
best he could do for the hapless man was to
mentally bring him in ' non proven! Still
he could not but recognize the ring of true
metal in that letter. The banker was aware
that his daughter's was no half-hearted love,

and that did he choose, Cis Calvert could
influence her strongly through it, even in
defiance of her better judgment. He confined
himself at present to a brief acknowledgment
of the epistle and an intimation
that he would reply at length as soon ashe
received Captain Calvert's next communication.


A little more and Cis was summoned to
Colonel Copplestone's quarters, and it was
made known to him that he must pass
beneath the Caudine Forks. "I like you,
Calvert, and believe you as straight a young
fellow as ever served under me. By heaven !
sir, I believe you perfectly innocent in this
matter ; but by George ! there was no excuse
for your using the language you did, and
you must apologize for it to Major Crymes
at once in the presence of these gentlemen,"
said the Chief sharply.

"You all know with what I stand
charged," replied Cis, simply. " I think
some allowance is to be made for the indignation

with which any man must at the
moment regard such a terrible accusation.
It has been pointed out to me that Major
Cryrnes made no kind of reflection on
myself, and never insinuated that I was
party to the scandalous fraud which I
assisted to commit. I beg to apologise
for the expression I used in my anger,
and to withdraw it most utterly before
you all."

I trust, Crymes, you consider that
sufficient," said the Colonel, " and that this
affair may now be considered as disposed
of."

Certainly, sir ; I am satisfied if you
are," returned the Major, and touching his
cap to the Chief, and with the slightest
possible salutation to Calvert, he immediately
left the room.

For a few seconds his brethren in rank
lingered to shake hands with Cis, and
express their gratification at the affair
having come to a satisfactory conclusion,

VOL. II. c

and then they also followed Crymes's
example.

I suppose you've got something to say
to me," observed the Colonel, seeing that
Calvert still lingered.

I have first to thank you, sir, for taking
my word about that miserable race, and
holding me innocent in spite of appearances ;
next I have to beg the favour of three days'
leave."

"What for?"

"To arrange an exchange. I cannot
continue to serve in the — th Lancers
under these circumstances. Were we likely
to change station very shortly it might
be, but I cannot face this neighbourhood
as things stand at present. I have thought
the whole thing out quietly in the last
forty-eight hours. I am perfectly innocent,
but presumption is so strong against me,
that I run the risk of being cut in the
hunting-field, of being requested to withdraw
from the club, &c. This will not

only be agony to me, but excessively unpleasant
for the regiment ; thank God, asa
whole, they believe in me, but to champion
my cause would be to put themselves
on a very uncomfortable footing with the
neighbourhood. Further, I have strong-private
reasons, which I need not enter
into, and lastly, I have lost a good bit
of money, which I shall recover by
exchanging to India."

For a few minutes the Colonel made no
reply, but seemed to muse over Cis's
speech. Then he said quietly, almost
gently for him, " I shall be very sorry to
lose you, Calvert, and if it was only the
money, I fancy it could be easily arranged,
but we cannot control the opinion of Yorkshire,
and I am bound to admit that
there's a deal of common sense in what
you say. Given we were living in the
old duelling days, we couldn't call out the
biggest county in the kingdom. It's unlucky,
but it's no use blinking the fact,

C 2

the case against you is terribly strong.
Take your leave, exchange, if you still
think it best, at the end of that time, but
remember you are not obliged to go, and
that if you elect to stay your Colonel will
stand by you."

At the expiration of the three days Cis
returned from town, proceeded at once to
the Chiefs quarters, and informed him
that he had arranged to exchange to an
infantry regiment in India, receiving a
difference of two thousand pounds, and
next day it was known through the — th
Lancers that Calvert was leaving them,
and on account of the race for the Cup.
There was much commiseration expressed
among his staunch friends in the corps,
men who believed in him despite the
terrible circumstantial evidence against
him ; but Cis, under pretext of having a
good many things to arrange, kept aloof
from his sympathisers. There were murmurs
against Crymes, but here the Majors

guarded tongue stood him in good stead;
his assailants were always confounded with
the unanswerable rejoinder " that he had
exposed a robbery, but never hinted even
that Calvert was concerned in it ; that it
might as well be said that he had charged
Harry Harperley and all other backers of
The Mumper with being participators in
the fraud, which was absurd." Cis meantime
rapidly concluded his final arrangements.
He had said good-bye to the
Colonel and a few other of his intimates,
and settled to leave York by the night-mail
for town. He had nothing left him
but to write his farewell to Annie, and
as he sat down to do that he dropped
his head hopelessly on his hand, and
reflected bitterly what a terrible changea
short week had made in his prospects.
To leave the dear old regiment under such
a cloud was sad enough, but ' the crowning
sorrow ' was having to resign Annie. What
was he to say to her ? He had stipulated

that he should be allowed to write this-letter,
and now his heart failed him, and
he almost felt that he would have rather
stole silently away.

I must bid you good-bye, darling," he
wrote at length, " yes, leave you with buta
distant hope of ever claiming you for
my own. That you disdain to think I
could have been wittingly guilty of the
disgraceful fraud with which I am unhappily
connected, is the one comfort left to mein
my troubles. It was like your own
sweet self to stand by the accused and
believe him innocent, black though the
allegations against him looked. But, Annie,
the chivalry must not be all on one side :
I could not ask you to be mine while
this stain hangs over my name ; were it
poverty and exile only, I would ask you
to have faith, and wait for better times.
As it is, I can only restore you your troth.
If, when I have righted myself with the
world, I find you still free, then, dearest,

1 shall once more plead my cause, and
fervently trust to a willing ear. Don't
quite forget one who can never forget
you, and whatever the future may have
in store, believe me ever your own, — Cis."

Pes. — " Harry will enlighten you as to
my plans for the future."

Good-bye, Harry," said Cis, as, with a
big cigar in his mouth and enveloped ina
heavy overcoat, he stood at the open
door of a carriage iu the railway station
at York, waiting for the train to start.
I'd have liked to have given you The
Mumper, but it would never do to leave
the old horse in the regiment ; he would
be a perpetual reminder of this wretched
race, and you can understand how anxiously
I long for it to be forgotten. Tell Happiness
to dispose of him, but not in these
parts, and credit me with what he fetches,
less his own percentage ; and, Harry, that
note's for your sister. You can tell her
all about me, and you've got my address,

and, and God bless you, my boy. Remember
me to — " and here Cis got a
little choked in his voice, wrung young
Harperley's hand, and sprang into the
train.

CHAPTER II.

A LITTLE Turn UP.

Julian Harperley's astonishment was
great when the next day his son told him
that Cis Calvert had exchanged into an
infantry regiment in India, and already left
York for good. The banker felt a sense of
intense relief, for he had been much troubled
in his mind as to what was to be the
upshot of Annie's semi engagement. He
was loth to believe Calvert guilty, and yet
he could not honestly say that he deemed
him innocent. He felt that to consent to
any betrothal between him and Annie was
impossible as things stood at present, and
yet he knew that his daughter would fire up

at the slightest imputation upon her lover,
and hold herself beneath contempt if she
did not stand true to him in his hour of
trial. They must have come in collision
upon this point, and to thwart or oppose
the girl in anything would have been very
grievous to Julian Harperley. He was compelled
to admit that Cis had behaved with
great delicacy in the whole business, and
felt more inclined to believe in his innocence
than he had yet done.

He was awfully cut up, poor old boy,"
continued Harry, " and more about Annie
than anything else ; but, as I said, she'll
stand to him and wait till he comes back.
When we heard he had gone away on three
days' leave we had no idea what it meant.
We thought it was something about money;
he lost a good bit over the race, you know.
He kept it all quite dark the first day after
he came back. It wasn't till he came to
saying good-bye to his old pals that we
knew he was going to leave us, and, by Jove,

in a few hours he was gone. I saw him off.
poor old chap, and he said I was to tell you
everything, and give this note to Annie.
It's a confounded shame, and I believe that
beast Crymes has something to say to it,"
and the boy's voice shook a little as he
uttered the last words.

You will be writing to him, of course,'
said the banker, after a little. " When you
do, remember me, and tell him that I am
highly sensible of the delicacy and consideration
he has shown, and thoroughly approve
of what he has done."

But it was hardly to be supposed that
Miss Aysgarth would take things as quietly
as her father. He had told her that Cis had
written to him, and would write ao-ain when
things were definitely settled. She knew
from her brother that the quarrel between
her lover and Crymes had been successfully
patched up, and she knew that Cis had gone
up to town on three days' leave. She was
not, therefore, at all disturbed at not having

received an answer to her note ; and when
Harry handed her Cis's farewell billet, she
received it with a flush of exultation, and
marched off to her own room to peruse it in
comfort. No sooner had she read it than
her face fell, and the tears welled into her
eyes. What did he mean ? Surely he
would never go without at least saying
good-bye to her ! He knew she held him
guiltless ; she had told him so. When
was he going ? What was he going to do ?
She did not understand it all ; and then
the girl's eyes fell upon the postscript, and
having hastily bathed her eyes, she descended
in search of her brother.

She found him in the drawing-room. The
Cornet was so unhappy about the whole
business that he had lingered there on the
chance of her wanting him, and in answer
to her eager questioning he briefly explained
what Cis had done.

"And you mean to tell me that he has
gone — gone for good ?

Yes, Annie ; I saw him off myself last
night. It seems awful hard lines that a
fellow who has simply been awfully sold
should be accused of being a leg and a
robber and all that. I don't understand
why Cis should have to go — no, that's not
right, because he especially told me to
remember that he was not obliged to go :
that the Chief had said so."

Then why has he gone ? " exclaimed
Miss Aysgarth.

He thought it best himself, and two or
three of the seniors, friends of his, mind, I
know think he is right."

And I know he is wrong," cried the girl
passionately. " Oh why, Cis dearest, could
you not take counsel with your promised
wife ? Who ever overcame a scandal except
by facing it ? To run away from a lie is
to endorse it. I don't know, Harry, who
his counsellors were, but believe me, he has
been ill-advised."

I don't know about that ; there are

tidings you women can't quite follow. I
don't pretend to be able to myself. I'd
pledge my life on Cis Calvert being straight
as a line about anything ; but to hear some
of those fellows argue the case is enough to
drive one mad ; and upon my soul, Annie,
I sometimes wonder they don't accuse me of
knowing all about it too."

"They well might," she replied, sadly, "if
you gave vent to half the mysterious hints
to others you did to me. I suppose you
have Cis's address."

Yes ; and though he didn't say so, I
think he'll feel pretty bad if he doesn't hear
from you before long."

Write it down for me. I don't want to
give him cause of complaint just now. If
he had but put faith in woman's wit instead
of man's he'd have been still in his old
rooms. The one scrape I was incompetent to
advise upon he is clear of; about the other
I'd have said emphatically, face it to the
last, we'll live it down together."

You're a rare plucked 'im, Annie,"
exclaimed the Cornet in undisguised
admiration of his sister's thorough-going
partisanship ; " but I don't think the
governor would quite have stood that,
you know."

"What do you mean ? "

That I don't think he's likely to consent
to any marriage between you and Cis
Calvert just now."

I'll never marry any one else"' rejoined
the girl quietly. " Still," she continued
more softly, " I don't think I could wed
any one without the dear old dad's consent.
And now good-bye, Harry. Remember I'm
always to know everything you hear about
Cis ; and yes, dear, he'll be your brother
some day."

With these words Miss Aysgarth left the
room ; but when the spirit of prophecy
possesses man or maiden on the topic of
matrimony, the narrator cannot refrain from
smiling as he calls to mind the misogamist,

those of his friends who vowed they would
marry money, and those more romantic, who
vowed they would marry for love, and thinks
how seldom man carries out his original
intent.

When Horace Crymes became aware that
Calvert had left the regiment, he saw at
once that ' the something ' he had scarce
ventured to hope for had intervened in his
behalf. He congratulated himself upon the
reticence he had maintained throughout the
whole business. Far from any one being
able to allege that he had ever insinuated
aught against Cis, there was the record of
their quarrel to prove the contrary. The
regiment would testify he had never for one
moment suggested that Calvert was a party
to the fraud, or had known the horse to be
other than he had described him. Miss
Aysgarth, in common justice, he thought,
could hardly decline his acquaintance on
that account, more especially too as she
could not pose in the position of being Cis's

fiancee. She surely would have been the
last woman to wish that any friend of hers
should unwittingly do anything wrong. He,
Crymes, unluckily did not obtain his information
in time to prevent Calvert starting the
horse, but he was able to stay the consequences
of his luckless imposture, and surely
no gentleman would wish to win a race
fraudulently, or the bets connected with it.
The Major could not help laughing to
himself as he went over the high moral
line of argument he intended to take up
with Miss Aysgarth ; but he was a shrewd
man where women were concerned, and
knew that in his own interest he had best
avoid that young lady as yet. Specious
and unanswerable as his story was, he felt
that she would not regard it in that light at
present. No, Calvert out of the way, there
was plenty of time ; he could afford to wait
before he commenced the siege.

That the world generally should consider
Cis's disappearance a tacit admission of guilt

VOL. II.

was exactly what Miss Aysgarth foresaw ;
and stand up for him as his friends might,
it was obvious that public opinion ran hopelessly
against him.

Known to be a friend of Captain Calvert's,
and people dropped speaking on the subject
before you, and if you persisted in introducing
it, listened with a smile of polite
incredulity.

One of the few partisans Cis had outside
his old regiment was Harrington. Although
he had lost his money over the race,
he persisted dogmatically in the Captains
innocence, and vowed he should live to
convict the real perpetrators of the fraud
yet. He held closely to what we happen
to know was the true story, namely, that
Mr. Hunsley and his friends had contemplated
winning a big stake with the
renowned Mumper ; but that when they,
from force of circumstances, lost their horse,
they had jumped at the opportunity the Cup
race had afforded them of getting that stake

by the objection. His dislike to Crymes, and
his persistent habit of taking opposite sides
from his wife, had no doubt something to
say to his opinion, though perhaps it had
little to say to his actions. It was always
so — he usually differed with Mrs. Charring-ton,
but the lady invariably had her own
way. He always disliked her cavalier
servant ; but that gentleman was, nevertheless,
like a tame cat in the house. Hence
it happened that while Byculla Grange asa
house made mock moan that one of
society's favourites should have deviated
from the paths of virtue and been convicted
of cheating, yet the master himself stoutly
declined to believe that it was so.

Thirty years ago, aye, and a good deal
later, cheating at cards when detected carried
social ostracism with it ; in the genial
times in which we now live I doubt the
offence being considered very heinous. It
is devoutly to be trusted that we are
getting more civilized, for no one with any

D 2

knowledge of the world can pretend that
we are getting more moral.

That Mrs. Charrington should launch
more than one winged arrow in poor Annie's
direction was only too natural. She w T as not
the woman to forego an obvious advantage
of that nature. Miss Aysgarth's admirer
had gone down in the tilt-yard with
smirched scutcheon before her own, and
she cannot forego some slight taunts upon
the occasion, not a little impelled thereto
because she had detected sirens of wavering
allegiance, she fancied, on the Major's part.

But the weeks wear on, and the story of
the race gradually fades away. Cis's accusers
have long forgotten to babble to his detriment,
and it is only in the hearts of a few
of his staunch friends that luckless Cis
Calvert is remembered. There is little
fear he should be forgotten at The Firs, and
Annie and Harry Harperley pass many
an hour over an enlarged map of India,
studying the station in the Deccan which

Cis has written to Harry to tell him is his
destination.

I'm told, young 'un," he wrote, " I've
exchanged into the very slowest infantry
regiment in the whole service. They've been
in India the last eighteen years, and have
almost forgotten their own language ; the
officers speak a species of patois, a mixture
of English and Hindoo : the ladies of the
corps are mostly more or less dark — begums,
I presume, who have forgot themselves,
and thrown away their future on the impoverished
youth of the Fringed ; but some,
I fancy, are of less distinguished lineage.
Sport, I am told, in the way of shooting is
plentiful of all sorts ; but for society — well,
I see I am not to expect it regimen tally.
What does it all matter to me ? I have come
here for a specific purpose, and shall know
no peace till the scandal is either lived
down or my name cleared, and that I may
once more address your sister as her affianced
lover."

Cis Calvert might make light of the
future that lay before him in his letter to
Harry Harper! ey, but it was with a sad heart
that he. took his berth on board of one of
Green's clippers, and made sail for Madras.

But there was another thing that shortly
arose out of the Cid's triumph in the Cup, and
that was, that Mr. Blundell's insolence and
arrogance became past bearing, and created
no little ill-feeling; amongst his co-mates.
Mr. Blunclell, it must be borne in mind, had
his pockets very handsomely lined by the
result of the race, although Isham Boggs, in
strict accordance with the principles that
characterized his career, had contrived to
decamp without paying quite all the money
he had covenanted to do. Still, bets and one
thing and another made Tom Blundell more
flush of coin than perhaps he had ever been
before in the whole course of his life. He
was a moderate viveur in his way, and when
in funds rather enjoyed dispensing hospitality
in somewhat patronizing fashion.

The grooms and stable-men of the corps
were no more averse than their betters to
the good things of this world, and a man
who was open-hearted in regard to the
standing of drinks could naturally depend
upon a considerable following. Mr. Blundell
never tired of jeering Tim Murphy about
the black colt as he humorously designated
The Mumper, nor of telling the story of how
he regretted out the great Mr. Books, and
so got at the truth concerning the horse ; and
his sycophantic following, as they tossed
off their glasses, would indulge in such
phrases as — " It was 'cute of you, Tom,
there's no denying ; but then, d — n it all,
man, you're Newmarket raised," or, " Well,
the way you turned that poor devil Tim
inside out, and put the puzzle together
afterwards, was a caution."

So it came to pass that the myrmidons
of the officers' stables were divided into two
parties, of whom the smaller faction were
headed by Blundell, and the larger sided

with Murphy. About what they differed was
not so clear. There was bad blood between
Blundell and Tim over the race naturally,
but why their respective partisans should
have established a feud was difficult of
explanation. However, so it was, and the
taunts of the Blundellites, chiefly instigated
by that gentleman himself, served further
to embitter it.

Well, my whistling friend," said Mr.
Blundell, as on his way to his own stables
he passed Tim strapping a horse, " have you
got never another secret to let out ? It was
uncommon kind of you to bring me and
Mr. Boggs together it was ; blessed if we
should ever have got at the history of that
'ere black colt of yours without his help.
You'd better have let me stand in, eh ? "

Ye'll go a trifle too far, my jewel,
one of these fine days," returned Tim drily.
We knew nothing about our horse, though
it seems you did."

Mr. Blundell responded to this by a wink,

and singing a verse of a slang popular
lyric—

The painted bit is in his mouth,
They're slating him, oh my !
Although, my dear, I'm from the south,
Susanna, I am fly."

By me soul, if you insinuate the Captain
knew anything about it I'll spoil your face
for a congregation of baboons," retorted Tim
fiercely.

Knew ! " rejoined Blundell, tauntingly,
and advancing a step or two nearer to the
Irishman. " All serene," he continued.
Knew ! I suppose he didn't back that old
black devil as if he knew something.
Knew ! oh yes, he knew, which fully accounts
for the milk of the cocoa-nut," and Mr
Blundell wound up by snapping his fingers
in the Irishman's face, a compliment which
Tim promptly reciprocated by knocking
him down.

This speedily produced a rush of some
half-dozen or more of on-lookers to the spot,

and Mr. Blundell, having picked himself up,

at once challenged his antagonist to come

round to the field at the back of the barracks

and have it out there and then. This

arrangement was so completely in accordance

with the feelings of the handful of gentlemen

assembled, that an adjournment thereto

was immediately made. No sooner had

they arrived than seconds were selected, the

two men stripped to the waist and stood upto

one another. It was at once apparent

that Tim was considerably the bigger man

of the two, having considerable advantages

in height, reach, and weight, but as a set

off against these it was very soon apparent

that the Newmarket man had been taught to

use his hands, while Tim, in the old prize ring

vernacular, was but - a countryman.' They

fought some half-dozen rounds, and in the

beginning Mr. Blundell, thanks to his

superior science, had unmistakably the

best of it ; but Tim took his punishment

doggedly, and came up again and again,

and forced the fighting as if having it all
his own way. No doubt superior weight
and strength served him a good deal, but
there was one thing aided him a good deal
more, and that was, Mr. Blundell was nota
very good plucked one. It was all very
well while he was fresh, and having things
pretty much as he liked. So long he was
bumptious enough, but when it settled
down into a ding-dong give-and-take
business, Mr. Blundell found himself the
recipient of some pretty rough handling,
and got too weak to stop Tim's fierce
rushes and rather round hitting ; then he
got very sick of the job, and speedily announced
his intention of giving in, as the
Irishman was too big for him. His seconds,
their own frontispieces not being in danger,
nobly exhorted him to

Take a suck at the lemon and at him again."

But Mr. Blundell said he had had enough,
put on his upper garments, and scandalized

his supporters by declining to be beaten
insensible.

This little turn up had one result — Mr.
Blundell came to the conclusion that chaffing
Tim was rather an expensive amusement
if it was to be paid for by such a rough
twenty minutes as had been his lot that
morning, and kept his gibes at the Irishman's
expense for the immediate ears of his
intimates only.

Thanks to Blunclell's babbling and what
he already knew, Tim w T as now aware that
the mysterious Isham Boggs who had exhorted
him to call at the Punchbowl was
the source from which Major Cryrnes had
derived his information as to The Mumper
being in reality a horse called the Black
Doctor; and after much cogitation Tim
thought it right that this knowledge should
be in the hands of some friend of the Captain's.
But who, was the question. Tim
first thought of Harry Harperley, but at
length decided he was too young. Then he

hesitated a good deal about taking his
tidings to the banker. He thought over
this for some time, but finally, he could
hardly tell why, came to the conclusion to
tell such story as he had to tell to Mr.
Charrington.

Tim might not arrive at his conclusions
quickly, but when it had permeated his
brain that this was the gentleman most
likely to take the cudgels up hotly in
behalf of his old master, Tim took the
first opportunity of presenting himself at
Byculla Grange.

CHAPTER III.

THE ROYAL Dunbar.

Lounging in one of those low cane easy-chairs
with flat elongated arms, so much
in vogue both in America and the East, is
a man who looks out from the verandah
of his bungalow with a jaded, wearied
expression somewhat sad to contemplate.
He stares listlessly across the dusty road
at the sandy, rock-studded plain, while he
sucks lazily at his cheroot, and his thoughts
wander back to the best fox cover in Yorkshire,
a soft November day, and such an
afternoon as comes but rarely in the lives
of most men. How he loathes this everlasting
sunshine, how he detests the country,

and how lie wonders what is to be the end
of it all.

Cis has joined his new regiment at
Secunderabad in the Deccan some months
now, and though he has honestly tried to
make the best of them, is fain to confess
they are beyond him. They are a class of
men with whom he has hardly an idea in
common ; promotion has been slow, the
corps years in the country, and all the
men of his own standing in the service are
not only very much older than himself, but
so completely Indianized that he fails to
get on with them. The younger men take
their tone from the seniors, and as Cis
mentally remarks, such a fossillized regiment
he never supposed to be existent.

The seniors are like so many military Eip
Van Winkles, and he constantly expects those
stupendous tiger-shooting reminiscences to
be varied with some personal experiences of
the siege of Serin goat am.

On the other hand, there can be no doubt

that Cis had been viewed with distaste from
the first. These tough old Anglo-Indians
were not prepared to look favourably on a
light dragoon. " We don't mean to stand
any of his Lancer swagger here," had been
said concerning him more than once before
he appeared amongst them ; and when he
did they resented his youth. That a captain
barely thirty should presume to take his
place amidst these grisly centurions was in
itself a reminder of the inequality with
which the prizes of the profession were dispensed.
That ' a young whippersnapper/
to use their own term, who had been
lounging about Hounslow, Hampton Court,
and Brighton in kid gloves and varnished
boots, whilst they were fighting and frying,
should have attained similar standing in
the military hierarchy to their own was in
itself a cause of irritation ; and then to
complete the list of his offending, Cis
openly expressed disgust with the country
and its customs, and could not refrain

from an occasional smile at the peculiar
habits of the veterans by whom he was
surrounded.

A more curious living picture-gallery than
the seniors of the Royal D unbars it was impossible
to imagine. That it was advisable
to live temperately in a tropical climate
was a maxim which, if it had ever been
brought to their attention, they evidently
had no belief in ; they were what is termed
free livers, and late in the evening their
various somewhat obsolete peculiarities
came out. Two of the veterans were fire-eaters,
with fond memories of the old
duelling days, and it was no uncommon
thing with either of these gentlemen to
leave the mess-room with somewhat uncertain
step, and a scowling intimation that
you should hear from them in the morning ;
but of course the menaced one never did,
and was met next day without the faintest
allusion to the trifling difference of the
night before. To say of two or three of

VOL. II. E

them, oh, splendide mental would be to cast
an unmerited reflection perhaps upon them
as a whole ; but though they had all more
or less talent in that way, after the custom
of those whose brains have ripened under
a tropical sun, yet were there some few
gifted beyond their fellows in this respect.
Men whose adventures in regard to tigers,
elephants, hair-breadth escapes, and matters
of gallantry held their comrades awe-struck,
and, curious to relate, the venerable stories
always elicited the same attention and
applause. One of their number indeed was
wont to act as fugleman on such occasions,
and bringing his hand down with a mighty
smack on the dinner-table, direct the
laughter and applause. Whatever these
elderly Lotharios might have committed in
their youth, it is certain that their days of
devilment were over ; they never went into
women's society, and the apparition of a
lady would have paralyzed the tongues of
the gay old dogs, and eventuated in their

slinking off to their respective bungalows inmost
admirable confusion.

That Cis should feel utterly miserable
among associates of this kind may be easily
imagined. That the few married ladies of
the corps were what he had libellously
asserted them to be was of course not the
case ; but still they were women of little
attraction, and whose talk was simply cantonment
gossip. He had been six months
doing duty with the Koyal Dunbarss and
had not an intimate in the regiment, and
had further the comforting reflection that
he had attained considerable unpopularity
with the seniors. He had failed to be
impressed with some of those tiger stories ;
he had been detected yawning at their
repetition. He had even stopped old
Jungleton, the champion Ananias, in his
crack story about the ' must ' elephant with
an intimation that he had heard it before.
A slightly incredulous smile had been
detected on his face when Brevet-Major

E 2

Lovejoy narrated that little episode of his
affair with the collector s wife at Burrun-
compost. In short, the centurions of the
Koyal Dunbarss voted Cis a supercilious
beast, and fought shy of him accordingly.
His life was hideously monotonous — duty
and the dulness of a mess dinner, books,
and rackets. Friends he had none. In his
isolation from feminine society — a bitter
thing to men of Cis Calvert's stamp — he had
imprudently said that he did not believe
there was a woman in the cantonment
worth knowing. His remark had been
bruited abroad, and was not calculated to
make things more pleasant for him.

He was sitting listlessly at mess as usual
one night when he heard Jungleton suddenly
exclaim —

I say, Lovejoy, have you heard the
new T s ? Daventry is coming here as chief of
the Commissariat ; there's a chance for you,
you dog ! "

Ha, ha ! " chuckled the disturber of the

collector's peace, " I leave that sort of thing
now to the young ones, but I've heard
plenty about Mrs. Daventry in the upper
province. There'll be a row here, Jungerley,
mark my words, before the year is out.
Never knew the Daventrys twelve months
in a place that result didn't come off."

I presume the Daventrys are people
with a history," remarked Cis.

I should rather think they are," growled
old Jungleton. " It's a thundering shame a
fellow like that should be kept on the staff,
while men who have seen twice his service
are still grinding away at regimental duty.
Why, there's hardly a play scandal for the
last twenty years he hasn't been more or
less mixed up in, and as for his wife —
Well, they say, Calvert, the ladies of the
cantonment don't meet your approval ; I
shall be curious to hear what you think of
Mrs. Daventry."

"I'm not likely to see much of them;
play is not the least in my line, and from

what you say I judge that forms a prominent
feature of the Daventry mbiage.

That's a delusion a good many men
have fallen into. I tell you what, though
I don't suppose you'll think much of my
opinion, you may consider you understand
women, — all young men do, — but just bear
in mind you don't understand tigers."

I don't understand you," said Cis,
laughing. " You surely cannot mean these
Daventrys are as dangerous as all that.
I'm not in the least likely to make love to
the lady or play ecarte with her husband."

And immediately the cock crew," muttered
the veteran. " If you won't take a
hint I've no more to say. I've slain a good
many tigers in my time, but when you are
not prepared to kill them it's safest to keep
out of their way."

Cis' curiosity was somewhat excited, and
he would have fain questioned Jungleton
further concerning the Daventrys ; but the
old warrior declined any longer discussion,.

and the subject rapidly disappeared from
Calvert's memory.

He was cantering home from the racket
court one evening, and pulled up at the
band as he often did, hovering in darkness
on the outskirts of the circle, and keeping
well away from the lights of the music-stands
on account of some strange ideas
the General commanding entertained on the
wearing of uniform on such occasions. A
carriage drawn up in a somewhat prominent
position attracted his attention, more from
the men that swarmed round it than from
anything he could see of the occupants ;
that it contained two ladies was easy to
make out, but from where he was it was
impossible to make any guess at their personal
appearance. Twilight there is none
in the tropics, and the band in India discourses
its harmony in what has been
termed 'a dim religious light.' Turning to
an acquaintance Cis inquires, " Who is the
attraction over there ? "

"That ? Oh, that is Mrs. Daventry, just
arrived. She's a sweet pretty woman, and
carries on pretty much as if Daventry didn't
exist. I don't know her, but she has the
reputation of having brought most of her
admirers to grief."

"Thanks," replied Cis. "I shall hope
to have a good look at her some of
these days ; no seeing her just now. Goodnight."


Weeks passed on, and Calvert thought
little about the Daventrys. He heard they
had taken one of the best bungalows in the
place, and entertained a good deal. Coventry's
dinners were said to be ' monstrous
well done,' while Mrs. Daventry 's weekly
receptions were talked about as quite the
pleasantness entertainments in the cantonment
; but Cis so rarely went into society
that he had never come across them, and
though, after the Indian custom, whereby the
new-comer is expected to take the initiative
in the matter of calling, Major Daventry had

left a card upon him, yet Cis had never
troubled himself to return it.

But if he had thought but little of the
Daventrys, the lady felt no little curiosity
about him. That she was speedily an courant
with all the gossip of the station was matter
of course, and what she gathered about Cis
Calvert piqued her not a little.

This ex-light dragoon who had suddenly
appeared in what a woman like Mrs.
Daventry knew to be a very heavy regiment
indeed was a phenomenon worth investigating.
A man who had done that must have
some badly to grief in some way. She
couldn't help puzzling her pretty head as to
what had brought Captain Calvert into the
Royal Dunbarss. His speech about the
ladies of the cantonment, which had excited
such indignation when first noised abroad,
made her smile. She had not been there at
the time, and so could very properly consider
herself as not included in the category,
and she rather admired what in these days

is designated ' side ' in a man. That Captain
Calvert rarely entered society again
interested her when she heard it.

Don't think Indian society good enough,
I fancy," remarked a good-looking youngster
to Mrs. Daventry, in answer to some leading
questions on this point. " In fact, he's
rather too great a swell for us, and we could
do without him very well."

Perhaps you don't know him as yet,"
rejoined the lady.

That's just it," cried young Lexington,
we don't ; and I tell you what, Mrs.
Daventry, I suspect he don't want to know
us."

From what she had heard of the Royal
Dunbarss Mrs. Daventry could imagine that
possible of a man who had probably mixed
in the London world. Captain Calvert, in
short, aroused her imagination. What crime
or misfortune had cast this lost planet without
his natural firmament ? Why was he
so far from Hounslow, Ascot, Hyde Park,

Belgravia, and the happy hunting grounds ?
She had slight experience of these in her
own person, and could not at times help
wondering how she became linked to the
plausible gambler who now controlled her
destiny. Controlled ! The world generally
would have said that Lizzie Daventry had
taken her life in her own hands, and did as
she liked with small reference to her husband.
One person knew better, and that
was Lizzie Daventry herself. It was seldom
her lord interfered, but when he did, no
man ever exercised marital authority with
more relentless severity. She had plenty of
pluck, was by no means deficient in spirit,
but she dare no more face the Major s cold,
cutting sneers than brave public contumely
by running away from him ; and she had
been sometimes sore tempted to discharge
her matrimonial obligations in that fashion.
What she might have been under happier
auspices it is useless to conjecture. She was
now, she might justly plead, what Hugh

Daventry had made her. That distinguished
officer's career had been a mystery
to a good many of his professional brethren ;
he passed tranquilly from one good staff
appointment to another with a halo of scandalous
stories surrounding his name that
would have sufficed to ruin the prospects of
any other man. But there are those gifted
with the faculty of skating over thin ice,
and Daventry was one of them. His moral
character might not stand high, but his
ability was undoubtedly great, and in those
days perhaps the former was less considered
than the latter in official appointments.
Hugh Daventry had proved himself a smart
soldier more than once when opportunity
had offered, and in our restless Indian
empire it is seldom a man finds that long
lacking ; while there could be no doubt
about one thing, that wherever the Ravens
might be stationed their house formed
a central feature of the cantonment. You
might recall many a story you had heard to

the Majors detriment, but there was no
denying he was an excessively well-bred,
agreeable man in his own bungalow. You
might have heard tales of the heartless
coquetry of his wife, but it was not easy to
remember them against the pretty high-bred
woman who received you with such a charm
of manner. This probably was the secret of
their immunity. Anglo-Indian society has
never been accused of being puritan in its
morals, and was not likely to hold aloof
from the pleasantness house in the station
because the host and hostess were talked
about. Everything was well done at the
Daventrys', and you were sure to meet all
the best people of the place there.

Still Captain Calvert had never yet made
his bow, nor even acknowledged the courtesy
of the Major's card. The two men had meta
few times in the racket-court, for Daventry
had been a good player in his day, and
although past his best was no despicable antagonist
even now ; they had got on very well

together on these occasions, but nothing
more. The Major was not the least inclined
to stand upon ceremony when he
wanted to know a man, and he had rather a
hankering; to know Calvert. He was the
sole man in the cantonment that had the
slightest conception of the cause of Cis's
presence in Secunderabad. An old cavalry
friend at How had remarked in a letter —
"So you have got Cis Calvert at your
station, tumbled down to infantry in consequence
of some scrape at York. I don't
know the particulars, but fancy he lost a lot
of money over some regimental race. He
was, I think, about the best of that very
hard-riding lot three years ago, and if you
should want a jockey I recommend you to
cultivate his acquaintance. I don't know
much of him myself, but have always
heard he's a deuced good fellow to boot."
Daventry never threw a chance away, and
nothing was more probable than his wanting
some one to ride for him at the Ski races

in the autumn. Still, Cis was not the sort
of man you could force an intimacy upon,
and Daventry, who had graduated in good
society, had quite tact enough to see that.

There was little interchange of confidences
between the Major and his wife ; but
when people entertain there is of necessity
some discussion of those among whom they
are cast, if it be only with regard as to the
issuing of invitations, and in this manner
Mrs. Daventry had learnt the little her
husband knew about Calvert, and had also
been informed that she was not to neglect
an opportunity of making his acquaintance.
She was not likely to do that, for her
curiosity was much exercised concerning
him. Accustomed to be sought after, feted,
and made much of wherever she went, she
felt piqued that Calvert had not sought her
acquaintance. If he had been some old
Indian violinist she would never have
troubled her head about him, but that the
whilom crack horseman of the — th Lancers

should be vegetating in an Indian Cantoned
o

ment perplexed her much. What was this
scrape that had transferred him to the
Royal Dunbarss ? Was it play, or an affaire
de coeur? Mrs. Daventry was a woman of
some experience with regard to both those
thunderstorms of social life, and could have
imparted sound advice in such exigency.
She had seen Cis on some two or three
occasions, and was bound to admit that,
though well-looking enough, there was
nothing striking in his appearance. A fair
slight man of medium height, with no
particularly good feature in his face, if we
except the mouth ; that was small, with a
well-cut expressive upper lip, which, now
the moustache, in compliance with the
regulations, had been ruthlessly shorn, was
almost too tell-tale. Women, as a rule,
read faces they care to study better than
men, and, as the physiognomist w T ell knows,
the mouth is the index feature. In the few
glimpses she had caught of him nothing had

struck Mrs. Daventry so much as the weary
look that played around Cis Calvert's lips.
Hugh might think it a play scrape of some
kind that had brought this man to India ;
Lizzie Daventry felt sure there was a love-story
of some sort at the bottom of it, and
felt all the curiosity of her sex to be
possessed of that tale.

If there is oue phase of the irony of fate
more striking, though common, than another,
it is the way we are so constantly compelled
to know people we have distinctly
made up our minds we never will know.
You avoid them successfully for years ; the
danger has been escaped so long you have
ceased to think about it, when lo, at some
social gathering, before you can open your
mouth to expostulate, some fussy busybody
has brought you face to face with your
bete noir, and exclaimed, " Let me make
two men who ought to know each other
acquainted." Nothing for it but to grin
and express your delight, and walk home

VOL. II. F

afterwards indulging in ferocious anathemas
towards your well-meaning friend.

Cis Calvert had not more particularly
avoided the Daventrys than he had society
generally, but he had been very successful,
as may be supposed, in maintaining the
seclusion he desired. You must have the
reputation, at all events, of a good deal to
bestow before people, finding their first
overtures unmistakably rejected, persistently
endeavour to cultivate your acquaintance.

Chance, which determinate a good many
things in this world, at last made Cis
acquainted with the Daventrys, and it
happened in this wise. A man Calvert had
known something of in England arrived at
Secunderabad en route for Nagpore. He
was also an acquaintance of the Major's, and
in accordance with the Arabian custom of
hospitality prevailing in India in those times,
quartered himself without scruple on the
Daventrys. Having accompanied his host
to the racket-court, he there encountered

Cis, and greeted him cordially. There were
a few allusions to old days, and then the
Major chimed in with —

Come and eat your dinner with us tonight,
Calvert, and then you and AVrotsley
can have a gossip over old times. I've no
party for you, nobody but ourselves, unless
Mrs. Daventry has picked up by good fortune
a waif or two who have consented at short
notice to break the monotony of a family
dinner in "Wrotsley's behalf."

And not knowing exactly what other
answer to make, Cis assented.

F 2

CHAPTER IV.

MRS. Coventry,

As Cis Calvert dressed for dinner he
cursed the facile disposition that had led
him to accept an invitation he would have
fain declined. He reflected ruefully, as many
of us have often done, why was he not more
ready with his lie ? It is as well to have a
store of such subterfuges handy in case of
being asked to join in what we dislike.
They are not very hard to improvise, but
they are still easier to keep in stock, and
yet is anything more common than that
plaintive social cry — "I don't want to go,
but how could I help it ? I didn't know
how to get out of it." Cis has no particular
feeling against the Daventrys ; he has

known something of society's black sheep in
his time, and feels bound to confess that their
folds were usually pleasant places ; but he
shrinks from all society at present, and the
idea of this dinner is exceeding irksome to
him. Wrotsley and he were very good
friends some five or six years ago, but he
does not feel impelled to get enthusiastic
about Wrotsley at present. Daventry he
knows to be pleasant, and Mrs. Daventry
he hears is. He wonders a little what the
lady is like, for as yet he has never really
seen her. He knows the carriage by sight
at the band, but the sun has dipped below
the horizon always before that discourses
sweet melody, and in the semi darkness of a
tropical evening it is impossible to form
much idea of the fair occupant. She, on
the contrary, has seen him through glasses
on more than one field-day, and is perfectly
conversant with his personality.

"They say she is both pretty and pleasant,"
muttered Cis, as he adjusted his

neckcloth, but the fellows here are naturally
uncommon liberal in their verdicts to that
effect. Any tolerably good-looking woman
ought to pass for a beauty in these parts,
and as for pleasant, hum, that's always matter
of opinion, and a point upon which I and
most of my brethren of ' the Dunbarss '
would hardly coincide."

A few minutes before eight Cis swung
himself on to the back of his ' tat as those
never slaves of ponies are usually called,
and cantered quietly across to the Daventrys'
bungalow. If he had been asked what he
expected to find his hostess like, he would
probably have replied with a smile — " Oh,
a bold showy woman, with a rather pronounced
manner' and was no little surprised
when Daventry presented a slight fragile
brunette with magnificent dark eyes to him
as his wife. Her quiet self-possessed bow
and the rather train ante tones io which she
welcomed him, were also very much the
reverse of what Cis had pictured to himself.

Lizzie Daventry's quick eye detected in a
minute that she was other than he had
expected, and resolved to make the most of
the impression she saw she had produced.

India I am told is all new to you at
present, Captain Calvert," she remarked,
as she signalled with her fan that he
should drop into the chair next her. " I
must not therefore ask you how you like it,
because I feel sure you detest it. Men
always do ; boys who have just escaped
from school or college may be delighted
with it, but for those who have really known
life at home it is a terrible change. Some
of us get reconciled to it in time, but it is
rather dreary work in the first instance."

I don't complain'' returned Cis ; "I
came here of my own free will, so why
should I ? The ways of the country take a
little getting into, and I've perhaps hardly
mastered them yet. One may not like it as
well as home, but still make out very well
all the same."

Some do, but not such as you, Captain
Calvert' replied Mrs. Daventry with a faint
smile.

Why, what can you know about me ? "
exclaimed Cis.

Not very much," returned the lady, " but
still perhaps a little more than you fancy ;
but dinner, I see, is announced, so perhaps
you will give me your arm. That you have
not been asked to a more formal banquet
rests upon your own head."

"Yes, it was rash, I know," replied Cis,
as they passed on to the dining-room, " to
venture within the precincts without having
properly salaried in the porch ; but I'll
plead guilty to being bad at calling at anytime,
and especially upon intruding on a
strange country. This Indian idea of the
new-comer calling upon the old residents is
both a tyrannous and appalling system."

The argument hardly applies in the
present case, as I think, Captain Calvert,
it was our misfortune to stand in that

painful predicament as far as you were
concerned."

Remembering that unreturned call of the
Major's, Cis felt that this was an unprofitable
topic to pursue, and could hardly help
laughing at himself for having given such
a palpable opening ; as if women did not
ever keep as careful register of those unpaid
calls as an Israelite of an unmet bill.

You are mistress of the situation, Mrs.
Daventry," he replied at length. " What
am I to plead in mitigation ? Sultriness
of climate, sulkiness of man, or simple
oblivion of social amenities ? I put in all
three pleas, mind, and then further plead
I am already sufficiently punished."

How so ? " she asked, raising the grand
dark eyes to his for an instant.

In having been for many weeks without
the privilege of Mrs. Daventry 's
acquaintance."

Ah, there's a touch of the beau sabreur
-about that speech," she rejoined, laughing ;

"so I suppose I must forgive you. Cut
those clucks up for me, please, in token of
having taken service under my banner. No,
I don't quite mean that, but as sign that
there is amity between us."

I trust so," said Cis, as he proceeded
to dissect the couple of wild duck in front
of his hostess ; " and now, would you deem
me very rude if I ventured to ask what
you may know about me ? "

Very little in truth. It was rather
woman's braggadocio than actual fact that
remark of mine. All we know of you is
this, that you were in the — th Lancers, and
supposed to be about the best horseman
in that very hard-riding regiment."

And you never heard why I left
them ? " rejoined Cis with a bitterness in
his tones that made Mrs. Daventry stare.

No ; but I have all a woman's curiosity,"
she replied, quietly. " Only please bear in
mind, Captain Calvert, I am not inviting
a confidence. Our acquaintance hardly

justifies that sort of thing as yet, nor do
I think you likely to be one of those
who burns to unbosom himself to the first-comer."


I'm not given to boring my fellow-creatures
with extracts from my biography '
rejoined Cis tartly.

He will tell me the whole story before
the month's out," was Lizzie Daventry's
mental commentary on this remark.

A most unnecessary labour, as you will
see when you come to understand India.
The gossip of the station will supply all
details of your birth, parentage, and misspent
life. Don't think me flippant, Captain
Calvert, when I use the word mis-spent. I
merely mean that it is the betimes of your
career you will find chronicled, while your
good deeds, if you have any, and my
experience of men scarce lends itself to
the belief, will remain unrecorded."

Not much good to recount of most
of us," rejoined Cis, " I'm afraid ; but you

speak rather more bitterly concerning us
as a whole than I think we deserve."

It may be I've good cause," rejoined
the lady, slightly dropping her voice, and
stealing a glance at Cis from under her
long dark eyelashes ; " but it's time Mrs.
Cornwallis and I left you to your wine.
She and her husband live in the next-bungalow,
and when I heard your serene
highness, who had so far declined our
acquaintance, meant honouring us, not
daring to receive you en famille, I asked
them to come at short notice."

Am I never to be forgiven ? " said Cis,
lifting a chair out of her way as she moved
towards the door.

"Yes," she replied, with a little nod, "if
you make your appearance in the verandah
for coffee within a reasonable period."

Cis bent his head in rejily, and then
turned to exchange reminiscences with
Wrotsley, leaving his host to entertain Dr.
Cornwallis. These talks over old times

come to all of us, and no one can deny
their fascination. Albeit we have a vague
remembrance that we detested the place
when there, and that the companion now
calling up the old scenes to our imagination
was one of our special aversions ; yet our
heart warms to it all, we express fond
desire to see the old place again, and think
how mistaken we were in our friend ; that
he really is by no means a bad fellow, and
we regret we hadn't known him better in
those days gone by. All a delusion ! He
has presented us with a pair of roseate
spectacles, recalled to us the years that are
flown, brought back for an hour to each
of us

1 Ma jeunesse que je regrette.'

Poof ! if we saw the place again we should
hate it, and if we saw much more of him
we should quarrel with him. Similarly, it
is a common weakness of men to implicitly
believe in certain cates of their boyhood, in
some cake or pudding the equal of which

they never have the good luck to meet in
mature life. If ever they do once more
cross that peculiar pie or pastry, a sad wail
over the deterioration of the artist's culinary
powers is the invariable result.

But interchange of reminiscences is apt
to be rather a prolonged affair, and Daventry,
having asked Cis expressly to talk over old
times with Wrotsley, could hardly suggest
their curtailment, consequently it was sometime
before they adjourned to the verandah
on the other side. Mrs. Daventry welcomed
them with a sweet smile, and Cis bethought
him of following up his dinner conversation,
but in that he was mistaken, Mrs.
Daventry chose to play hostess, and dexterously
attached Wrotsley to her side, so
that Cis was left to make acquaintance with
Doctor Cornwallis, a shrewd, pleasant man,
with much experience of the country, and
who had known the Daventrys on and off
-at various stations for the last ten years.

You must find the Royal Dunbarss a

somewhat quiet-going lot after the — th
Lancers, Captain Calvert," remarked the
Doctor, sententiously, as he ejected a cloud
of smoke from between his lips.

Why, did you know anything of the
th Lancers ? " inquired Cis carelessly.

Yes, I knew them well enough some
twenty years ago, when they were out in
this country, and a mighty wild lot they
were then, and by all accounts they're not
much steadier now. You look astonished
at my venturing such an opinion, but
remember, India is nothing, after all, but a
vast military camp, and then, given to
gossip as we are, the doings of our comrades
at home have always considerable
interest for us. There is hardly a regiment
out here that could not be said to have
its military correspondent at home in the
shape of some one who writes to an old
friend in it."

Cis glanced keenly towards the speaker,
but in the semi-darkness of the verandah

it was impossible to see his face. Was he
speaking at random ? or did these people
already know the history of that miserable
race ? It did not make much difference, he
thought ; if they did not now they doubtless
soon would. What a fool he had been
to suppose it wouldn't follow him to India !
His first impulse had been right, namely,
to leave the service altogether, as if he
remained in it he would be always liable
to have it thrown in his teeth ; but here
his reverie was interrupted by his host,
who proffered another cheroot.

Hope you don't dislike this smoking
in obscurity, Calvert," he exclaimed, " but
we old Indians rather affect it. We get
a little too much of the brilliant sunlight,
and learn, like bats, to revel in the nightfall
; however, after you've smoked that
we'll go in, and I dare say my wife will
give us a little music."

No more tobacco for me, thanks," replied
Cis, rising. " We are given to hope, Mrs.

Daventry, that you are about to crown
your hospitality by playing to us."

I will either play or sing to you with
pleasure, if you are quite sure you wouldn't
rather lounge here, talking, smoking, and
watching the fire-flies. I can sing, Captain
Calvert ; it happens to be one of the things
I know I do well, but pray don't think
it incumbent on yourself to ask me because
you have heard I do sing."

I can imagine Mrs. Daventry doing-most
things well," rejoined Cis, "and trust
she will allow us to judge of her singing."

I don't profess many accomplishments,"
rejoined the lady, smiling as she rose, " but
I possess one given to few of us. I comprehend
my metier. I know what I can
do and what I can't. I can ride, dance,
and sing, and have, perhaps, some one or
two other gifts, the which I shall leave
Captain Calvert to discover ; and now
reciprocate my candour and unfold your
accomplishments. "

VOL. II. G

Don't know that I've got many," replied
Cis, as they entered the drawing-room. " I
can both ride and dance a bit, can shoot
decently straight, and that's about all. I
can't sing, and don't pretend to be clever.
I got my commission in the pre-educational
days, you see, which was lucky. I was
eminently adapted, indeed am still, for a
profession in which you were not expected
to know."

Oh, I have little doubt you are sufficiently
wise in your generation. What
shall I sing you ? do you like ballads ?
There is, I think, nothing so delightful,
when properly sung, in the shape of singing
as the ballad ; but of course you may give
it like a musical box, or you may make the
water stand in people's eyes."

I quite agree with you, and it is the
former rendering that we more usually encounter
in society."

This is a favourite of mine. A man's
song more than a woman's perhaps, but it

always strikes me as so unutterably sad,"
and striking a few chords with practised
touch on the piano by way of prelude,
she burst into Kingsley's famous ballad
of " When all the world is young, lad."
The dash of spirit and boyish hope of the
first verse were given with exquisite fire
and animation, and then the flexible contralto
voice sank to mournful regret as the
singer commenced the second with " When
all the world is old, lad," finally descending
almost to a wail of despair as she faltered
out the concluding words —

Creep home and take your place, lad,
The halt and maimed among ;
God save you find one face, lad,
You loved when all were yourjg."

To Cis, still chafing at his exile, the ballad
as rendered by Lizzy Daventry appealed
powerfully. He wondered how he should
find things at The Firs when he ' crept
home.'

It was all nonsense, of course, that a man

G 2

should be so moved as Cis was by this
ballad, but we must remember what had
happened to him in the last few months,
and further, how he loathed this weary
Indian exile to which he as yet saw no end.
He felt almost as if his battle of life had
been fought, and he had nothing left him
but to drag himself sore stricken out of the
fray. Annie, his good name, position — all
were gone. He stood silent some minutes
after the song was finished, but Mrs. Coventry
interrupted him never a word. Like a
true artist she appreciated this mute acknowledgment
of her pow T hers very far beyond
the conventional " Oh, thank you's ! " " How
delightful ! " etc. She saw his lip twitch,
and knew that his thoughts were far away.
She perceived that she had touched some
chord connected with his trouble, whatever
it was, and once more she felt curious about
the reason of his presence in this country.
Lizzie knew enough of the ways of soldiers
to know that men don't as a rule leave the

light cavalry for infantry in India except
under extreme pressure.

What has driven Cis Calvert here ? —
play or a woman," thought Lizzie with a
toss of her worldly little head. "And I
mean him to tell me which before the
month's out"'

Shall I sing you anything more, Captain
Calvert ? " she asked at last. " I am
afraid my mournful ballad has leavened you
with its own spirit. I ought not to have
chosen it, but I had no idea that it would
have so depressing an effect on you. Xo,
don't thank me ; your silence was more
eloquent than anything you can say. Do
you know this ? '"' and Mrs. Daventry dashed
off into Kenny's charming ballad of "Why
are you wandering here, I pray ? " to which
she gave plenty of point and archness.

What a magician you are," said Cis, as
she finished. " Yes, you can bring tears
into our eyes, or charm the blue devils away
from us as you list. I'll not compliment

you further than saying, whatever Mrs.
Daventry says she can do, I for one shall
devoutly believe in for the future."

I am really pleased to sing to you. I
am so sick of the conventional compliments
on my performance. To see that you have
made any one feel," said Lizzie, with an
expressive glance of her dark eyes, " is a
triumph for any songstress."

I am indebted to you for the one pleasant
evening I have passed in this country,"
rejoined Cis ; "and now, Mrs. Daventry, I
think it is time to say good night. The
matutinal habits of India are unholy in the
extreme ; people are all afoot before my
late comrades had gone to bed. It's healthy,
I know, to lay kicking at and cursing mosquitoes,
but I can't help wishing the Royal
Dunbarss kept their whist table going an
hour or two later."

Going to bed early don't suit you ?
I suppose you haven't got into it as yet."

No, indeed. I've tried hard to break

myself into the habits of the East, but
retirement to rest at eleven is usually productive
of rising at one and smoking; a
cheroot with a view to produce sleepiness.
But go to bed early or go to bed late, I'm
always sleeping the sleep of the just at
gun-fire, and feel tempted to strangle that
miserable malefactor who, under a pretence
of being my servant, calls my attention to
the fact that the dressing bugle has gone."

"Ah, I dare say it does come hard. I
was broke into it young, and then we
women are not so conservative in our habits
as you. We have more adaptability. But
remember one thing, you have broke the ice,
Captain Calvert, and at last cast aside the
hermit's robe. I hope we shall see more of
you in future, and further bear in mind,
that I am ' at home ' always on Wednesday
evenings, and that when your rubber dies
out at the mess of the Koyal Dunbarss you
will always find one here on that night.
Neither Hugh nor I are given to lengthy

slumbers ; four or five hours always suffices
for me, though I plead guilty to persistently
indulging in what some people call the fatal
habit of the siesta — rubbish ! as if it was
not common to all the sun countries. Goodnight."


Cis clasped his hostess's little palm and
made his reverence, and then having shaken
hands with Daventry and Wrotsley, and
made his adieux to the Cornwallis, swung
himself once more into the saddle and
cantered home.

Arrived at his own bungalow, he proceeded
to mix himself a bucket of soda and
brandy, then lighting another cheroot, sat
himself down after the manner of solitary
man to think over the events of the evening.
Yes, Mrs. Daventry was very different
from the woman he had expected to see ;
he had pictured her a showy, affected woman,
full of airs and agaceries, betraying an unpleasant
consciousness of her charms, with
a mouth filled with foolishness, and eyes

that challenged all male creatures to flirtation,
and he was fain to confess there was
not the faintest trace of the vulgar beauty
of his imagination about Mrs. Daventry.
She was undoubtedly a very pretty woman,
but anything more unaffected and unconscious
than her manner it was impossible
to conceive. When she said she could sing
there was no trace of her being vain of that
accomplishment. She stated it as a fact too
well established to make a fuss about, just
as a man of established position never
manifests any anxiety concerning it, and
she had certainly good warrant for what
she said. Cis could not but admit that he
had never heard sweeter ballad singing, and
he had thought Miss Aysgarth highly gifted
too in that way. The studied simplicity
of her dress too was perfect ; but one of
the great attractions she had for men was,
that under her soft caressing manner she
permitted them to divine that she was
unhappy, that she was not understood. It

was this lent such magical charm to her
music.

"The anguish of the sing-er made the
sweetness of the strain." Ah, how many-men
have succumbed to these misunderstood
women, the titillation to their vanity iso
irresistible ; they pity the lady, and think
the husband a brute in the first instance ;
gradually it is insinuated to them that their
society affords some consolation ; had they
only met when she was free ; from that to
kindred spirits,' and the final catastrophe,
is but a step, and the denouement is
generally in the hands of the lady ; with her
it rests whether the fly within the meshes
escape with scorched wings or two lives
are ruined.

Do not suppose for one moment that Cis
Calvert had any wild fancies of this nature.
He only thought that Mrs. Daveutry was
a very charming woman, who sang very
sweetly, that it was a house it would be a
relief to drop in at occasionally, and so

break the deadly monotony of this Indian
life. As far as his slight experience of
society in the great Asiatic peninsula went,
he had been most unfavourably impressed
until to-night. He had found neither social
nor feminine attraction in Secunderbad sofar,
and if he had turned hermit it was
because the solitude of his own bungalow
was less depressing than the mild revelry
of the station. As he had told Mrs.
Daventry, his sole distraction in the evenings
was whist, and the whist players of the
Royal Dunbarss retired betimes. The tossing
feverishly on your couch, with a mind
thronged by ugly memories, while listening
to the war-horn of the mosquito, is a
sorry time to look forward to, and so badly
did Cis sleep that he quite dreaded going
to bed Again and again to him came
that miserable vision of Crymes carrying
off his betrothed, or rather she who had
been his betrothed, even as he had carried
off the Cup ; for despite a sweet love-letter,.

in which Annie told him nothing could make
her believe him anything but innocent,
and that she was still his whenever he
deemed it right to claim her, Cis persisted
in considering her free. No man, he held,
with such stain on his name was justified
in asking a woman to marry him.

At last with a weary sigh Cis threw the
end of his cheroot out of the window and
proceeded to seek his pillow.

CHAPTER V.

A CRITICAL SITUATION.

Well, Lizzie, what do you think of this
excessively shy fish I only succeeded in
landing last night, though I've angled for
him some little time ? " inquired Major
Daventry, as he and his wife sat at
breakfast.

He's well enough," she rejoined, languidly
; " but I don't think he will be much
use to you, whatever he may be to me. I
may find him pleasant to ride or dance
with ; but I don't fancy he's any taste for
cards, except in the shape of a quiet rubber."

"Taste of that nature sometimes only
requires a little development, besides, it was

a gambling business of some kind brought
him out here. Those bitten of the gamecock
seldom overcome the fever."

"No, indeed," she rejoined, bitterly, "I
can testify to that."

Ah, well, I don't think we shall trouble
you for any evidence on the subject just
at present. Will you be good enough to
remember that I want the house made
pleasant to Calvert. I needn't caution you
not to over-do him with invitations just at
first, because no woman understands better
than you how to make a man thoroughly at
home in her husband's house ; " and the
sneering tones in which the speech was
delivered were enough to goad a better
woman than Lizzie Daventry to practical
reprisal.

I shall do, of course, what you bid me,"
she replied, in her soft even voice. " If I
have no other virtue, I may certainly claim
to be an obedient wife. At your behest,"
she continued, with an inflexion of sarcasm

in her tones, " I have broken half the laws
of the decalogue."

"And transgressed the other half, most
probably, for your own satisfaction," rejoined
her husband, brutally. "Remember what
I have told you. I wish Calvert to be
intimate here ; if he can't be useful to mein
one way he may in another. He's worth
making a tame cat of if only for his jockey-ship.
There'll be races got up here in the
cold weather, and first call of a good man
will be worth money. You do understand
a race when you see it, and you know how
very few of the gentleman jokes in this
country have any idea of riding. I'm off to
the office ; don't forget."

For a few minutes she sat motionless, then
rose and paced the room restlessly.

If I'm not a good woman," she murmured,
"surely I may plead in palliation
that I was married as a mere child to a manlike
that."

Calvert, in common decency, could not belong

before lie called upon the Daventrys.
Her own inclination coinciding with her
husband's instructions upon this occasion,
Lizzie exerted herself to please her visitor,
and few women when they chose had more
fascination of manner. What wonder that
the visit was somewhat prolonged ; what
wonder it was speedily repeated ! To Cis,
sore from his downfall in England, and
utterly bored with such Anglo-Indian
society as he had hitherto met, such a
house as the Daventrys' was an elysium,
while sympathetic Mrs. Daventry was a
solace to a wounded spirit past all compare.

The cantonment began to talk, — it does
not take much to set a station gossiping in
the East, — and speedily it was whispered
about that Calvert was gazetted first aide
on ' the Daventrys' ' staff.

That Lizzie should have her circle of
adorers was an acknowledged thing concerning
her, and whenever the appointment of
senior aide-de-camp was vacant there was

much curiosity manifested as who should
succeed to it.

Cis had gradually dropped into this
position. He generally rode with her, was
often her escort to this, that, or the other
entertainment, when duty or caprice prevented
Major Daventry fulfilling that obligation.
He was now an habitue of the house,
constantly dined there, and rarely missed
one of Mrs. Daventry's Wednesdays.

That what's called a little gambling went
on upon these latter occasions was undoubtedly
true, and that no more pernicious house
for a young man could be possible in an
Indian station equally so.

The Major took exceeding good care
that such play as there was should be kept
within moderate bounds ; but these moderate
bounds were quite high enough to suck
the life blood out of the ordinary regimental
officer. A steady abstraction of so many
ounces of blood a day kills quite as surely
as the severance of the jugular. Still, as

YOL. II. h

far as Cis was concerned, he was not hurting
himself at cards, nor, although Secunderabad
believed the contrary, was he at all in love
with Mrs. Daventry ; and what was more,
that lady was quite aware of the fact.

It piqued her not a little. She was so
accustomed to see men yield to her fascinations
almost at first sight, that her conquests
for the most part interested her but
slightly. There was a novelty in this man
who courted her society, who was ever
willing to dangle by her side, but who
never made love to her ; it was altogether a
new experience, and it provoked her. She
was used to see men's faces flush at a few
soft words from her lips, and knew she had
power to make the blood surge wildly
through their veins at will ; but she was
fain to confess that she did not believe Cis
Calvert's pulse quickened one beat in the
minute at her presence. He was kind,
courteous, devoted ; but Lizzie knew, as
women instinctively do know, that he was

not in love with her. She quickly drew her
own deductions. She had never yet failed
to conquer when she had pleased to exert
herself; more usually her victims were at
her feet without any trouble on her part.
There was but one thing could steel man's
heart against her attractions, and that was
his love for another woman ; and when she
had arrived at this conclusion a smile
wreathed Lizzie Daventry's lips, and she
vowed Cis Calvert should forget that
woman in England before long. Of her
own power to teach him such oblivion she
never doubted. She had taught others
before him as mere matter of caprice. She
was in the very zenith of her beauty, just
entering her twenty-ninth year, and might
well feel justified in believing that no man
could be long insensible to her charms whom
she set herself in earnest to subdue.

"Ah, my dear," she murmured, with a
scornful little laugh, " I don't know who
you are as yet, though I shall before long ;

H 2

but though you were first in the field you
are many thousand miles away now, and
Lizzie Daventiy has yet to find a man who
can remain at her side and be constant to a
memory of days that are gone. We shall
see."

The days slipped by, and Calvert might
be almost said to live at the Daventrys'.
There was much talk about his extreme
intimacy there in the cantonment ; but still
it didn't affect the lady, as is sometimes
the case.

There are men and women to whom
society concedes the privilege of trampling
the conventionalities underfoot, as there are
others whose slightest deviation from propriety's
grooves is visited with prompt
retribution.

Lizzie Daventry belonged to the former
class. For years she had been talked about.
She had always some one as devoted as Cis
Calvert at her back, and had at last quite
established it as a concession she required

from society, that she should be allowed a '
cavalier servant. Still, for the first time in
all her experience Lizzie found that post
filled by a man who was not in love with
her. Some weeks had elapsed since she had
made up her mind to effect Calvert's subjugation,
and Mrs. Daventry was fairly nonplussed
to find all the artillery of her fascinations
powerless. She felt that this man
was a loyal friend, an admirer even ; but a
lover — no. " But he shall be," she would
whisper to herself sometimes, almost fiercely,
as her 'anger rose at Cis's insensibility.

Did he but know it, Cis Calvert was
never in more grievous jeopardy than at
the present. A beautiful capricious woman,
passionate, untrammelled by principle, and
used to the gratification of her every whim,
is doubting whether she loves him or hates
him ; but is at the same time very resolute
that he shall in any case be made to love
her.

When a woman has this feeling towards a

man it can end only in one way — passionate
love ; and if the man fail to respond to that,
it were well for him that he should put
thousands of miles between them as soon
as he becomes conscious of her preference.
Byron's line is too hackneyed to quote ; buta
woman scorned ' is no doubt dangerous,
and likely to work the culprit's undoing if
it lieth in her compass.

Mrs. Daventry had come in from her
ride one afternoon, with Cis as usual in
attendance, and as matter of course he
followed her to the drawing-room for a cup
of tea. Whether Cis had shown some signs
of developing into the lover, or whether her
own feelings were getting more involved

O (Do

than she was quite aware of, who can say ?
but Lizzie suddenly was seized with an
irresistible desire to, in nautical phrase, take
soundings. She determined to see as far as
might be possible what impression she had
made upon this man's heart. The siege had
been carried on now for some weeks with

much persistency, and she thought it time
to take stock of the results.

Taking off her hat, she cast herself wearily
on one of the lounges in the drawing-room,
and said,

"I feel so tired, though I am sure I don't
know why. I am going to reverse the usual
order of things, and ask you to give me
some tea."

Of course ; sit still and rest, I'll do all
the tea-making business. You overrate your
strength and do too much. Do you know I
sometimes think you have been too long in
this country. You should take a run home
to England."

"England!" she retorted. " Do you
know it's ten years since I left home a mere
girl ? Do you think, in the words of your
favourite song,

1 I'd find one face, lad,
I loved when all was young % '

No, Cis, I had few friends or relations, and
made a run-away match from a Brighton

boarding-school. What would I do in
England, even supposing my lord and
master consented to part with me ? "

But Daventry would never hesitate a
moment if he thought your health was at
stake."

"Not a second," she replied, dreamily.
"If he wanted me out here I should be bid
stay — if deemed in his way I should be sent
home."

I don't think you do your husband
justice. I'm sure he allows you to do pretty
much as you like."

"In some points, yes," she replied bitterly.
I've unlimited licence for flirtation, and if
I ran away altogether I don't think Hugh
would be very much put out. Only you men
are so blind, you might see what I mean."

Cis made no reply, but gazed at his fair
companion in mute astonishment.

Ah, you don't comprehend. You should
understand something about women too by
this time, Captain Calvert, You may beat

them and ill-treat them ; you may hate
them and let them know it ; but you may
love a woman though you ill-use her, — and
hatred may be born of love, — and as long
as she believes in the existence of that
she will forgive much. There's one sin
against her she never forgives, and that is
indifference."

The conversation was getting embarrassing,
and Cis felt that it was so, but he was
not quite a neophyte in these matters, and
his answer might have been counted diplomatic
by a past master.

So you may say' he rejoined quietly ;
but as you can never have been called
upon to deal with it, you can hardly be
considered an authority on that point."

You can never conclude a married
woman is not," she retorted quickly. " Ah,
well, you see an end to this dreary existence.
You are not destined to stay much
longer in this land of eternal gossip and
sun — a slanderous land, where it is difficult

to say if the scandal or the weather is served
out to us hottest. I should know," she continued
in a low voice, " for they have
whispered evil of me for years, from Pesh-
amur to the Deccan."

Pretty women are always talked about,"
replied Cis, " and I don't know that there is
much more scandal afloat here than at home.
If the women weren't jealous of your good
looks, recollect, they wouldn't talk about
you."

You will be very glad to return to
England, I suppose," she suddenly observed.

I don't know. I have never thought
about it. Why ? "

Why ? Surely you know the Koyal
Dunbarss cannot have much longer to serve
in this country. They have been out so
long that they are the subject of innumerable
jests — are said to be mislaid by
the authorities, and their whereabouts not
even known at the Horse Guards ; that
they were in reserve at Glassy, and have

been in reserve ever since. They will go
home next year in all probability."

Do you know, I never thought of
that," said Cis slowly. " When I exchanged,
my one idea was to get out of England,
and to collar as much money as I could on
the transaction."

Ah, yes, I never asked you, but of
course I knew you exchanged out here on
account of a scrape of some sort. Money,
was it ? I have sometimes thought it might
be the other."

The other — meaning — "

Quite so," interposed Lizzie, laughing ;
difficulties feminine or difficulties financial
seem to be, if not the whole duty of man,
the only one he devotes himself to getting
into with any sort of energy."

No," he replied, speaking in somewhat
dreamy fashion, as if more to himself than
his companion ; " money was the least part
of my scrape, though it had something to
say to it. HI not bore you with the wretched

story ; suffice it to say, I sank under a charge
which, though powerless to disprove, I was
perfectly innocent of. The regiment as a
whole stood by me like men, but it was no
use, appearances were too strong, and public
opinion undoubtedly against me. I bent to
the storm and left England • it was better todo
that than wait to be cut."

You were wrong," she said quickly.
Face it boldly, and one can live down a
scandal, even if it be true."

Odd, he thought ; in the one letter he had
received from Miss Aysgarth since he had
left York she had expressed much the same
opinion.

You say so now, but you'll perhaps hear
all about it some day, and drop me inconsequence."


Never, Cis," she replied. " You know
me better. I have plenty of faults, no
doubt, but I am staunch to my friends."

Mrs. Daventry's detractors, and they were
pretty numerous, would probably have

suggested an amended reading to this speech,
and phrased it thus : — " Staunch to her
lovers till she wearies of them."

"You think so now, but you may be
more hardly tried in my case than you
think for."

"As if that would signify. When a
woman believes in a man she does it withall
her soul. She will credit nothing to
his disparagement. Will you tell me one
thing?"

What is it ? " he inquired curtly.

Had a woman anything to say to this
scrape of yours ? " she answered, in a low
voice, though the quick anxious look she
shot at him from beneath her dark eyelashes
showed she was by no means indifferent
to the reply.

No : the money part which aggravated
the business was of my own making, but for
the rest it was a sheer caprice of fortune."

I don't believe him a bit," thought Lizzie.
I can't go any further just now, but I put

my question badly. She wasn't perhaps
the cause, but there was a woman mixed up
in it all I'd stake my pet arab to a mango."

Ah, well, you will go home next year,
and twelve months buries most social
iniquities. I shall miss you terribly, and
you perhaps may send me one little line
from the Cape."

"No, I don't think that '54 will see me
home again ; if the regiment gets its orders
for England I shall probably exchange
again."

Why, what should keep you out here ? "
and the wicked dark eyes flashed subtle
provocation to the answering of that question.
She was looking her best she knew,
and a tithe of the encouragement she had
just given had brought most men to her
feet so far. But instinctively as she felt
she had a rival in the background, she could
not know how unhappily timed was her
attack. There had suddenly come across
Cis a recollection of that other afternoon

when he had ridden home to The Firs after
the day at Askham Bog, and had tea with
Annie Aysgarth. She too had been in her
riding-habit, and her frank honest manner
offered a severe contrast to the somewhat
meretricious bearing of his present companion.
He liked Mrs. Daventry much.
She had been very kind to him since he
had made her acquaintance, and lightened
his lonely life no little ; but at this minute
he had one of those clear glimpses into the
truth that are vouchsafed most of us now
and again. He saw the difference between
the gold and the dross, between the pure
honest love of a maiden and the capricious
fancy of a coquette. For if not one whit in
love with Mrs. Daventry, it could scarcely
be supposed Cis was unaware that he was
embarked in a strong flirtation with her ;
that the station indulged in tolerably strong
comment on this little affair he might also
be pretty certain of did he ever take the
trouble to think about what his world might

say ; but concerning that Cis was sublimely
indifferent, and yet heaven knows he should
have been aware, if any one ever was, how
tongues can wag to a man's detriment.

He remained silent for some minutes, his
memory still busy with that scene in the
fire-lit drawing-room at The Firs. Lizzie,
watching him closely from beneath her
drooped eyelids, bit her lip with vexation
at seeing how little hold she really had on his
feelings. She recognized that his thoughts
for the moment were far away, and it was
precisely one of those moments when it was
a slight past forgiveness to be engrossed with
anything but the woman at his side. A
change came over Mrs. Daventry's face, the
dark eyes that a minute before had gleamed
with softened languor now sparkled with
anger, and though she strove hard to suppress
it there was a slight acerbity in her voice
which aroused Cis from his reverie as she
remarked —

I little dreamt the attractions here were

so numerous that they required thought to
catalogue."

Ten thousand pardons ; but my thoughts
were wandering. You were saying — "

"That I am very tired and you very
tiresome, Captain Calvert. I dare say half
an hour's sleep before dinner will put me
all to rights. Good night. If you have
nothing to do come and have tiffin with
us tomorrow."

Cis pressed his hostess's hand and accepted
his dismissal without remark. He was accustomed
to her moods, and not without
experience of such curt cone, and it certainly
did dawn upon him as he rode home that
he was getting entangled with Mrs. Daventry
in a fashion he had never contemplated.
He had not in the least lost his head, I
suppose I should say heart, but the former
in these matters when of irregular nature
is perhaps the more important factor of the
two ; still Cis knew there were occasions
when the march of events and a reckless

VOL. II. i

woman may snatch the reins out of one's
fingers, and the coach of our destiny crash
down-hill uncontrolled by either drag or
driver. He had no belief that Mrs. Coventry's
regard for himself was anything more
than a caprice of the moment, but he did
know that she had not only no affection for
her husband, but that she both feared and
despised him, if two such sentiments are
compatible. To despise what we fear seems
scarcely possible, and yet there are times
when the sense of terror seems so lulled to
rest, that contempt for the cause of it may
become the master-passion of the twain.

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. Harrington's ADVICE.

There are few old saws so true as the
expression ' a nine days' wonder Verily
in these times you must have astonished
the world to considerable extent if it holds
you in memory for a fortnight. The pace
gets faster and faster, and whether you
paint pictures, compose poetry, write books,
steal plays or act them, play the fool
politically or aesthetically, if you don't,
so to. speak, pose continually before the
public you will most assuredly find yourself
forgotten. In '53 the great movement
for the elevation of the masses, and the
corresponding increase of ignorance in the

I 2

middle class, had not as yet begun. That
smattering of all the * ologies that affectation
of knowledge of everything and solid
knowledge of nothing, had not yet commenced.
That getting of learning through
the medium of epitomes is scarce conducive
to solid acquirements.

The spring of ; 53 has passed away, and
the triumphs of West Australian at Newmarket
and Epsom have effectually driven
all recollection of that luckless race at
Crocker Hill out of the heads of York and
its neighbourhood. Still the exile, you maybe
sure, is not forgotten at The Firs, nor
have his old comrades of the Lancers ceased
to talk about him. Tim Murphy, much
exercised by Blundell's taunts, has, after
making some unsuccessful inquiries on his
own account, carried his story to Harry
Harperley, and that young gentleman, with
a wise discretion, has in his turn told the
tale to Mr. Charrington. The master of
Byculla Grange, who had already formed a

pretty correct idea of the true state of the
case, seized upon the clue thus furnished
him with avidity, enjoined close mouths
upon both the Cornet and Tim Murphy, and
then set himself to work to prove Calvert's
innocence. Not even to himself would he
have admitted it, but it may be questioned
whether Mr. Charrington did not look forward
a little to convicting Crymes of being
aware of The Mumper's identity some time
before the race. That Blundell, the Major's
groom, had known it Mr. Charrington had
no doubt ; Dick Hunsley had admitted that
he had backed The Cid in accordance with
such knowledge, regarding the race as made
pretty well a certainty for one of the two
horses, and that it was within his power to
disqualify the black should he prove the
better of the twain. If he could only
get at this mysterious Isham Boggs, Mr.
Charrington thought he should then be in
possession of every detail of the robbery — a
robbery of which there could be no moral

doubt that the Major's servant was cognizant
of, whatever his master might have been.
But Mappin, to whom he went in the first
place for information, could tell him no
more than he had told Cis Calvert some
months before, to wit, that he had never
heard of him. Then Mr. Charrington made
personal inquiry at the Punchbowl, but he
did not take much by that investigation.
Yes, they knew Mr. Boggs ; he stayed thereat
times. Where was he now ? They didn't
know. When was he likely to be there
again ? They didn't know. In fact, further
than that Boggs existed, and had a palpable
entity, there never seemed living creature
of whom it was more impossible to get
knowledge.

But the ex-Indian officer had not dedicated
the best part of his life to wringing the
truth from the subtle double-dealing Asiatic
without becoming cunning in ruses and
crafty in cross-examination. He remembered
while the controversy raged hot, that

at the York Club some one had said that
Bilton, the great Leeds bookmaker, had
told him he was backing the wrong horse,
when he, Bilton, accommodated him with
the odds against The Cid, and that the ring
generally seemed inspired with the conviction
that The Mumper would win, and
rather peppered the grey in consequence.
Putting things together, Mr. Charrington
came to the conclusion that the shadowy
Boggs had probably played prophet on that
occasion, and inspired the leading bookmakers
to lay hotly against The Cid. A
little thought enabled him to remember
who it was that Mr. Bilton had made that
remark to, and he easily persuaded the
gentleman in question to write to the bookmaker
and inquire if it was from a person
named Isham Boo-as that he had derived
his information, and further, who and what
was Isham Boggs. Mr. Bil ton's reply was
soon to hand. He answered the first question
in the affirmative ; and as to the second.

said that Isham Boggs was reckoned about
the cleverest tout in England, that he
believed he had some rather queer stories
attached to his turf career, but they were
mostly before his, Bilton's, time. Further,
he indicated no suspicion that the information
furnished him by Boggs had not been
given in perfect good faith, nor did he offer
any opinion as to who the conductors of the
robbery might be.

Mr. Charrington felt that he had not
advanced his case an iota by this last move,
but he had come to the conclusion that
there were three people who could prove
Cis Calvert's innocence, and tell the real
story of the race if they would ; and it was
further his opinion that any one of the three
would do so for a consideration. These
were Boggs, Hunsley, and Blundell ; but
the first two had disappeared, and Mr.
Charrington reflected ruefully that he could
not well either bribe or cross-examine the
servant of his intimate friend Major Crymes.

Still, though Boggs and Hunsley might be
difficult to find, with their tastes it was only
a matter of time. The hangers-on of the racecourse
rarely take to any other vocation,
but adhere to their calling pertinaciously,
despite the very indifferent living it furnishes
them with at best, in spite of its
cruel vicissitudes ; and no man knew this
better than Mr. Charming-ton. Whatever
misfortune may befall these men, even
when it takes the form of being; for a
space of some years in what is euphoniously
known as 'Her Majesty's keeping,' they
gravitate back to the race course as ducks
to water.

There never was a man more qualified
to make the most of winning cards than
Horace Crymes. No one was quicker to
recognize the turn of fortune in his favour
than he, or to back it with more audacity.
He had grasped at once all the advantage
that luckless race had given him, and played
his game since with consummate tact and

patience. He was rid by chance, lie knew,
of a most formidable rival, and had been
specially careful never to let a syllable
escape his lips to that rival's disparagement.
He had more than once pointedly declined
any discussion of what he somewhat ambiguously
termed a painful subject, leaving
his hearers on such occasions not quite clear
whether he meant regret that duty to his
backers should have required him to make
that fatal objection, or that he was lamenting
that an officer of Her Majesty's — th Lancers
should have so sadly deviated from the
paths of rectitude. With regard to The
Firs, he had perfectly succeeded in keeping
up his acquaintance with its inmates, at the
same time being specially careful not to
throw himself too much in their way just
at first. To the banker he had more than
once expressed regret at the line he had
been compelled to take, but always hinted
that his delicate position prohibited his
expressing an opinion with regard to

Calvert's conduct. If he never accused Cis
of fraud he most decidedly never upheld
his innocence.

Julian Harperley had never been quite
able to make up his mind upon this point.
He still remained constant to the Scotch
verdict of mm proven, but he was quite
decided upon another. He most earnestly
desired that such engagement as there was
between Cis and his stepdaughter should
be considered cancelled, and in this he had
been materially aided by Calvert himself.
Not only had he reluctantly relinquished
all claim upon Miss Aysgarth, but he had
solemnly renounced the privilege of writing
to her. He not only had called that letter
written just previous to leaving York his
last, but although sorely tempted by Annie's
sweet, womanly reply to continue the correspondence,
he had abstained. " No," he
said, " I love her far too dearly to hamper
her with the correspondence of a broken
man. Somebody would get hold of it if we

exchanged letters, and that she should be
known to still write to me would be flung
in her face. You may be innocent of cardsharping,
but while the world holds you
guilty you are as a chimney-sweep to your
friends, and blacken their hands whenever
you cross palms with them. I have done
the best I could for all who loved me in
placing thousands of miles betwixt us. You
would stand to me, my darling, if I calledon
you, I know ; but I'm not so mean as to
take advantage of your loyalty."

It may be urged that knowing himself
guiltless, Cis Calvert was inconceivably
foolish not to stay and live down the
accusation against him, but I can only
remark that innocent people as a rule are
usually so overwhelmed with sudden charges
of this nature that they invariably display
much less discretion than transgressors, who
are, so to speak, naturally prepared for some
uncomfortable explosion. Next we must
remember that Cis had lost a very heavy

stake upon this race, and that the money
had to be found immediately. A thousand
or twelve hundred pounds takes some
looking up when your income amounts to
little more than half of it. Lastly, there
was a bit of genuine chivalry in Cis's nature,
and he shrank from involving his friends in
his defence, nor could he endure the idea of
the girl he loved being involved in his
disgrace. Anything to save her. Thank
heavens, their engagement had never been
publicly announced, and if he departed
silently to India, that he and Annie had
ever been friends would be speedily forgotten.
He was weak perhaps to take this
view of the case, but men with plenty of sense
have been overwhelmed by such scandals
before now, and have made the mistake of
restoring their troth to women who love them
dearly rather than involve them in their own
wrecked lives ; and the women, who would
fain have stood by them an they might, have
judged the situation more correctly.

Miss Aysgarth meanwhile might certainly
slain to be a hardly-treated young lady.
She is a good, plucky girl, loving Cis
Calvert with all her heart, and ready to
stand by him through evil report in any
shape. On the first intelligence of the
trouble that had come to him she had
written him a loving little note, in which
she had expressed her entire disbelief in all
this accusation against him ; then she had
received in her turn that letter in which,
while protesting his innocence and unalterable
regard, he had released her from her
troth. She had replied to that in an epistle
full of passionate indignation that people
should be found weak enough to credit such
foul scandal, and protesting against the idea
of being absolved from her pledge.

I gave myself to you for life," she cried
vehemently, "to share your sorrows as well as
your joys. Do you think me so foolish that I
did not anticipate there were no storms for
us to weather — storms, dearest, which should

serve only to knit us closer to each other.
One has burst upon us sooner than we
dreamt of, and I claim ray right to face it
by your side. You did wrong, Cis, believe
me, not to stay here. Ah, believe me, weare
better judges than you on these points.
No woman ever turns her back upon a
scandal until she is quite certain it will
overflow and drown her. I am afraid there
must have been money troubles besides, or
you would never have stole away without
wishing me good-bye. Still, Cis, remember
I am yours whenever you choose to come
and take me, and Til believe nothing they
say against you, prate them ever so loudly."
When a young lady does not get an
answer to such a letter as this she may be
excused for feeling a little uneasy in her
mind. Lovers now-a-days may doubtless
carry their chivalry a little too far ; and I
have a hazy idea about Christmas time when
mistletoe was about some quarter of a century
ago, that when young ladies declared

they would scream if you did, they certainly
put you down as a most unmistakable muff
if you didn't.

It was all very well for Cis to release her,
and to volunteer to drop all correspondence
till his name was cleared ; but then he had
no business to keep his word, and Annie
had not been woman if she had not fully
expected him not only to consider her still
betrothed to him, but to let her know pretty
frequently that he did so.

But this was just what her lover refrained
from, taking credit to himself meanwhile for
so doing, and the result naturally was, that
Miss Aysgarth chafed a good deal over the
ordering of things. Did she not believe
thoroughly in her lover's innocence and
constancy ? Undoubtedly she did, but still
she thought that last letter of hers deserved
an answer ; and moreover, although one
may have no misgivings concerning one's
betrothed's devotion, still it is comforting to
know now and again that he is in the same

frame of mind. It was difficult to imagine
Cis Calvert's morbid view of his misfortune ;
and Annie found it hard to account for the
sombre strain of his letters to her brother.
She was haunted with the idea that they
none of them knew the whole truth, that
Cis had kept back something, and, moreover,
she was hardly satisfied with these
messages in Harry's correspondence. Why
did not the exile write direct to herself?
No positive interdict had ever been placed on
their writing to each other, although Julian
Harperley had certainly said that he thought
it would be better all that sort of thing
should cease, and Miss Aysgarth had told
her father thereupon that things had gone
too far ; that she could not desert her lover
in his trouble, and that she must write if
she were written to ; but then this last as
yet had not come to pass. No wonder
Annie Aysgarth felt her love-affair was
running a little askew.

It is a gorgeous July morning, and Horace

VOL, II. K

Crymes is lounging in Mrs. Charrington's own
sanctuary at Byculla Grange, a luxuriously
furnished boudoir off the drawing-room,
with a large French window opening on
a prettily laid-out garden. The Major
has just returned from the battle-field of
Ascot, and has so far little to complain of in
the year's racing campaign. He has identified
himself for the present with Yorkshire,
and in common with the county generally
had a rare turn over the triumph of the ' all
black ' at Epsom, and has done no harm at
the royal meeting to boot. Great days for
f the tykes ' were those when Malton and old
John Scott culminated in taking the classical
triplet, last coruscation of the great stable of
the north, ere death claimed its veteran
ruler.

So you still think seriously of wooing
the banker's daughter," said Mrs. Charring-ton,
who was making pretence of busying
herself with some embroidering. "Not a bad-looking
girl, and will come to you with something

comfortable in her hand, to say nothing
of what there may be, as Mr. Disraeli terms
it, ' looming in the future You might do
worse, Horace."

I have got to that time of life," rejoined
Crymes, " when it behoves us to settle. I
must, as you know, marry money ; and if
you give permission, really do not think I
san do better."

Oh, dear, yes," rejoined the lady, laughing;
"I told you long ago I like to settle
my admirers, if possible, in my own neighbourhood.
But have you any reason to
think you'll win Miss Aysgarth's consent ? w

Any girl is to be won by a man who has
time and opportunity to serve him," rejoined
Crymes, coolly. " When I beat Calvert in
the Cup I virtually gained a bride as well.
I'm not sure I didn't hint as much to her
before we started, but that victory disposed
of my rival."

I'd not be too sure of that," said Mrs.
Charrington. " I feel pretty sure there was

K 2

an engagement of some sort between them ;
and she's just the kind of romantic girl to
insist upon sticking to it in defiance of the
advice of her people."

Granted in the first instance ; but when
she seldom hears him spoken of, and knows
that he has betaken himself to the other
side the globe for an indefinite period, that
feeling will die out."

"It may, and when you consider that
time has arrived, then, I presume, you
intend to come forward."

"Just so, unless accident furnishes me
with a favourable opportunity sooner. Luck
so far has been on my side. Had Calvert
won that race, as the hero of the hour and
winner of a nice sum of ready money, he
would have been hard to displace in Miss
Aysgarth's good graces."

"Yes, Horace, I would not have given
much for your chance under those circumstances."


Exactly ! One of my maxims is never

to throw down my cards, but invariably
play the game out, however much it may
look against me. It has served me well
many a time. There is another should betaken
in conjunction with it — ' Everything
comes to him who knows how to wait '

It may be so," replied Mrs. Charrington,
thoughtfully, "and, to do you justice, I
think you understand us better than any
man I ever knew ; but I don't think you
have an easy task before you."

"Very likely not, but difficulties rather
inspirit me than otherwise. By the way,
it is possible you might do me a good
turn."

How so ? " she inquired, with no little
astonishment.

Well, you doubtless have some Indian
correspondents. You might ascertain forme
what Calvert is doing. I have never
been there, but scandal is pretty rife in the
East, unless rumour belies it."

Why, you don't surely expect to hear

that Captain Calvert is entangled with any
woman out there ? "

No," replied Crymes, with a cynical
smile, " I never expect to hear of any of
my friends being in such grievous case ; but
it is wonderful how often I am taken aback
by intelligence of that nature."

I have told you I will help you, and
if you really are in earnest your opportunity
will come next month. We are going, as
are the Harperleys and others of our
friends, for six weeks or so to Harrogate.
It will be easy for you to go to the same
hotel, and that will give you every opportunity
of prosecuting your suit. Not to
flirt at Harrogate is to make yourself conspicuous
; to be really in the fashion you
should have two or three affairs in hand
at once, and as to conduct those without
tangling the strings requires an audacity
and delicacy, it is not surprising that scenes
and situations are plentiful in the vicinity
of ' the Stray.' Say you'll join our party

and come, it will be sure to amuse you,
and, as I said before, offer opportunities you
will find hard to make elsewhere."

Thank you very much," exclaimed the
Major, rising. " I shall only be too charmed.
You are a woman in a thousand," he added,
in a low tone — " one who can take a disinterested
interest in an admirer. I shall
never forget it, whatever the result maybe.
Once more, adieu," and, pressing her
hand warmly, Crymes bade his hostess
farewell.

Yes," murmured the lady, " he's very
nice, and it would be very nice to have
him settled in the neighbourhood. We
should get on beautifully, and be clear
friends always. I think, Horace, if I can
manage it, we must wed you to Annie
Aysgarth."

CHAPTER VII.

Harrogate.

Though Shakespeare asks us, What's in a name 1
As if cognomens were much the same,

There's really a very great scope in it ;
For instance, wasn't there Doctor Dodd,
That servant at once of Mammon and God,
Who found four thousand pound and odd,

A prison, a cart, and a rope in it."

Tom Hood is right. Shakespeare, you
see, on which point he cannot be too
sufficiently congratulated, lived before the
age of advertising. It is all very well
to say, " The rose by any other name would
smell as sweet." Quite so ; but just call them
pink tulips, and you'll discover an astonishing
difference in the sale, w T whether for good
or evil no mortal can determine, for the

whim of the public on such points is a
thing surpassing all human understanding.
But if there is something in a name there
is a good deal more in a water. I mean
a medicated Spa water. You may drink
them for gout, rheumatism, what you will ;
but there is also a moral property in them.
As the quaffing of the waters of Spa and
Homburg tend to foster an inclination for
backing the colour or speculating on the
spinning of a ball, so do the springs of
Bath, Cheltenham, or Harrogate encourage
the disseminating of scandal and all manner
of evil speaking.

After somewhat careful observation of
the latter place, I agree with the pithy
sum-up of a veteran stager who knew the
town well — " It's the sulphur as does it."
The system, you see, has to be purged
somehow, and that gout, rheumatism, and
all the ghostly brotherhood should exude
under the influence of the springs in scandalous
garrulity is a benign form of riddance

of one's ailments. Gossip in the pleasant
little sanatorium runs high, as is natural.
What would you have ? — we have only to
drink the waters, haze, as poor Mortimer
Collins called it, and talk about our neighbours
; and how can we talk about people
whose history we don't know, unless we
embroider. Harrogate, as a rule, displays
commendable talent in this art, has been,
indeed, noted for it the last hundred years
or more. Smollett, in his Humphrey
Clinker, does it justice on this point, and
one wonders how many little differences
that grand old common called ' the Stray '
has seen settled on a summer's morning.
One can picture many a pair of young
bloods in their shirts, silken stockings, and
buckled shoes, foot to foot and hand to
had, engaged in wicked tilting matches,
brought about by les beaux yen of Mistress
Lydia, or the consequences of indiscreet
tattling. The Irish adventurer was a great
feature in all such places a century ago, if

we may trust the novelists of those times,
and is probably still to the fore ; but
society has so enlarged, and the salient
points of the Hibernian have been so
rounded off, that he is no longer the
prominent figure he once was.

Yet I heard a story of Harrogate within
the last few years that shows the Irishman
has not forgotten the traditions of his race.
It is customary at leading hotels in such
places as Harrogate, Scarborough, &c. to
appoint a president who sits at the head
of the table, and is supposed by courtesy
to be invested with some slight authority
as master of the ceremonies. That he is
president of a pure democracy is, of course,
palpable, and that such weight as he may
carry must be due entirely to his tact and
popularity obvious. At an hotel in Harrogate,
goes the story, Mr. O'O'Bluster was
raised to the throne, and at once proceeded
to rule the Saxon with a rod of iron. Now
there were, I say it with sadness, two pretty

contumacious English girls, who declined
to bow down to the O'O'Bluster. That eminent
Hibernian had probably detected covert
discontent with his rule, and when, the
night before they left, they petitioned fora
last dance, sternly declined to allow the
attendance of the professional pianist usually
employed upon such occasions. In vain the
young ladies pleaded ; the O'O'Bluster declared
he should put down his foot upon this
continual frivolity, and that this night his
friend Mr. Malone had promised to give
them a summary of the Irish question. The
hilarity of the evening is supposed on these
occasions to commence after tea, and that
refreshment satisfactorily disposed of, the
O'O'Bluster commenced arranging the chairs
in the drawing-room for the convenience of
the listeners to Mr. Malone 's lecture. Once
more was the Celt outraged by the Saxon,
for in defiance of the dictum of their Irish
president, one of these English young ladies
seated herself at the piano and trilled out

the Manila valse, while, dreadful to relate,
her sister had actually persuaded some one
of her admirers to commit felony, treason,
contempt of court, or whatever it may be
termed, and dance with her to that music.

There are times when collapse of our
authority startles most of us on account of
its abruptness. Louis Philippe, perhaps in
our days the most astonished man to discover
the reins had slipped through his
fingers and the horses had overturned the
coach ; but his bewilderment was a trifle
compared with that of the 0' Bluster. Should
his authority pass without a struggle ?
Heaven forefend ! Fiercely he demanded
of the pianist that she should cease. She
smiled sweetly, but played on. Angrily he
called upon the dancers to stop their gyrations
; they laughed lightly and continued
valuing. He appealed to the community,
and the elderly and infirm, whose bed-time
hour had well nigh come, followed him into
the lobby; but the younger and more

energetic scorned to succumb to ' Home
Rule,' derided the O'O'Bluster, and had their
dance out. The downfall of the president
was complete, typical of the probable result
of Irishmen ruling Ireland.

Very pleasant, however, is Harrogate
when the gorgeous summer weather comes
upon us. When Babylon is sweltering
under a midsummer sun, and the paving
stones remind one of the good intentions
"with which those nethermost torrid regions
are flagged, it is good to lounge about ' the
Stray,' and enjoy the balmy air of the
highest table-land in England. There is
nothing to do in Harrogate for which one
cannot be too sufficiently thankful. Do we
not leave the turmoil of Babylon, wherein
we struggle for our bread, for rest ? and are
not pure air and nothing to trouble our
minds sufficient for most of us ? But for
those restless beings who cannot understand
the delights of pure, unadulterated indolence,
and as a man of Skimpolian tendencies I pity

them from my heart, there are endless excursions
to me made from Harrogate, ruins
to be raved about, sights to be sung about ;
still these are all superfluities. The genuine
visitor goes in for health, indolence, the
waters, and such mild amusement as may
come to him without trouble.

Mrs. Charrington was very fond of a
month at Harrogate. She affected the
Queen's Hotel, where she played the great
lady, turning up her aristocratic nose with
much magnificence at the wives and
daughters of the plutocracy from Leeds,
Bradford, Manchester, etc., a demonstration
which inspired these good people with no
manner of awe whatever, and usually recoiled
upon Mrs. Charrington's head, insomuch
as the deference so ostentatiously
claimed was apt to result in her barely
receiving civility from what she contemptuously
denominated 'the spinning women.'
Manchester might be a little loose in its h's,
and Leeds express itself with more emphasis

than grammar, but they were pretty shrewd
in reckoning up their fellows. They recognized
dollars, they recognized success, and
they had all that sneaking reverence for a
genuine swell so characteristic of a radical.
Let him say what he will, the republican
always grovels before a duke ; but they
didn't see Mrs. Charrington. Good family,
perhaps so ; but who was Mrs. Charrington,
and what had Charrington done that she
should give herself such airs ? Every year
did Mrs. Charrington come to Harrogate,
and set up for being queen of the Queen's
Hotel. Every year was her authority
fiercely disputed, and every } 7 ear did she
declare that nothing should ever induce her
to set foot in the place again. But the
gossip, that curious panorama of humanity's
weaknesses and scheming, which watering-place
life affords, always attracted Mrs.
Charrington back again, and then it suited
her spouse admirably. He was close to
home, quite handy for the York races,

could slip up to his friends on the moors
for a turn at the grouse. People, too, in
the year of grace '53, did not wander sofar
from home as they do now-a-days. Cook
had not as yet inculcated his sublime scheme
for the seeing of everything in Zoetrope
fashion in the minimum of possible time.
Railways were, though in use, still but half
comprehended of the public abroad ; the
national instinctive hatred of the barbarous
hordes generically described as Russia, butin
reality the wandering nomads of Central
Asia, who from time immemorial have
swept westward like a torrent, had enlisted
our sympathies in favour of the Turks.
1 The sick man,' as the Czar Nicholas
described him, might be sick, he might becoming
up piping,' and all that sort of
thing, to borrow the extinct argot of the
prize-ring; but for all that he was apparently
not so easy to be done with — not to
be put out of the fortress of Silistria by any
means for instance, and yet the Muscovite

VOL. II. L

could not be accused of being chary of life
to attain that desirable consummation. There
were wild politicians who even hinted that
we might interfere in the struggle, at which
our rulers were vastly amused. The idea of
our interfering with anything after forty
years of peace, coupled with the remembrance
of that awful debt contracted in
the early days of the century. Ah, the
magnates who conduct our affairs are
destined from time to time to be astonished
at the manifestation of the national will
running not rightly in accordance with the
grooves those eminent legislators have prescribed
for it ; and though we may wonder
now what on earth took us into the quarrel,
it was unmistakably a war of the nation,
not of the ministry. Still I fancy in the
summer of '53 few people dreamt that the
following spring would see us committed
to the biggest war we had been engaged
in since the famous death grapple with
Napoleon in the Belgian corn-fields.

Mrs. Charrington had once more taken up
her abode at the Queen's Hotel, and without
any solicitation assumed the role of leading
lady, patronizing some of her sisters from
the manufacturing centres to a degree they
found barely endurable. Why she, a fairly
popular woman in her own neighbourhood,
should make herself so unpleasant at Harrogate
was singular ; but the fact was, Mrs.
Charrington never could divest herself of
the delusion that it was a great piece of
condescension on her part to dine at the
table d'hote and mix with the other visitors,
instead of adhering to the dignified seclusion
of a private sitting-room. In reality Mrs.
Charrington, being perfectly aware that the
sitting-room would be, if stately, insufferably
dull, abandoned it for the more lively general
table, but always cherished the idea that it
was very gracious on her part to do so, and
that the guests must be proportionately
grateful for her goodness. People were
more wont to entertain such notions in the

L 2

days of which I am writing than they are
now. The astounding biographies which,
from the slenderest facts, Mrs. Charrington
was accustomed to construct regarding those
with whom she mixed were always a source
of much mirth to Julian Harperley and
Miss Aysgarth, now also established at the
Queen's Hotel. No sooner had she arrived
at any new-comers' names and some two or
three trivial details concerning them, than
she forthwith presented her intimates with a
florid picture of their lives, and though how
ill-founded were her conclusions was matter
of continual demonstration, that exercised
no check upon her imagination.

Horace Crymes too had come over to
Harrogate, doggedly bent upon prosecuting
his suit with Miss Aysgarth. He had kept
somewhat aloof from that young lady since
the race, thinking it more politic to do so
for a time ; but he had remained on perfectly
friendly terms with Mr. Harperley,
and, as he well knew, had afforded Annie

no pretext for quarrelling with him. No
one could accuse him of bitter denunciation
of Cis Calvert ; on the contrary, he had kept
rigid guard over his tongue in that respect,
and the girl was perfectly aware of it. She
had heard her father and many of his friends
speak of how well the Major had behaved
through the whole transaction, and even
Harry, hot partisan as he was of his old
captain, was fain to confess that Crymes was
not to be numbered amongst Cis's accusers.
The Major makes his advances with the
utmost tact ; he is most deferential, and by
no means too marked in his attentions to
Miss Aysgarth, indeed, is studiously desirous
that she should not suspect him of such
design as yet. He has taken much counsel
with Mrs. Charrington, and while pretending
to act upon that lady's advice, is steadfastly
playing his own game. He is by no means
blind to the advantage of having that matron
on his side, and still more keenly alive to
the fact that she could be very awkward in

opposition ; but he is spared all anxiety on
that account, for Mrs. Charrington always
shows a disposition to provide for her favourites
after the regal fashion of Catherine,
f Eussia's mighty empress

"You are too cautious," said Mrs. Charrington
to him one afternoon, as they
lounged in the garden in front of the house.

The idea of having to chide Horace
Crymes for being a laggard in love !

You are, of course, a better judge than
I can pretend to be ; but I don't think Miss
Aysgarth has quite got Calvert out of her
head as yet. Besides, you should certainly
understand that, though it may be desirable
I should get married, yet I am in no hurry
to assume the yoke."

Ah, yes, Horace ; and it will be terrible
for me to part with such an adorer as yourself;
but then, you know, we must think
what is best for you. To marry money
speedily is, you say, imperative. Very well
then, do it — you can ; well, you know, goon

adoring me all the same, and if you
marry Miss Aysgarth will be always in the
neighbourhood handy for the purpose."

Mrs. Charrington was somewhat in advance
of her age, and a very practical
woman. Such bold views of the relations
of the sexes were not generally enunciated
thirty years ago, though in these days incertain
circles the theory of a species of
staff is regarded as quite permissible for a
married woman. It is perhaps less to be
dreaded than the attachment of a single
aide-de-camp.

Eemember, I start under peculiarly adverse
circumstances. I have got to make
her forget a previous lover, for there can
be no doubt Calvert was that, and to
further make her forget that it was I who
brought him to grief."

Yes, and it's just that last point that
will give you trouble. You may supplant
a lover in a woman's breast, and she will
well-nigh forget him ; but she will always

resent the having been arbitrarily deprived
of one."

Quite true ; but difficulties have always
a fascination for me. But heaven preserve
us, here is one of your wild acquaintances
from Pendleton swooping down upon
us — a weird and probably ^-less matron.
Forgive me, but I really have not courage
to face the attack."

The lady from whom the dragoon fled in
such affected terror was a perfect type of
those dames from the manufacturing centres
that so often discomfited Mrs. Charrington.
A good, honest, homely woman, richly though
plainly dressed now, but who could well
remember 'the days when she went about
in cottons and prints, when she and her
husband had not so many shillings a week
as they now had five-pound notes. She
had neither h's nor pretence, nor that
quintessence of snobbism — ostentatious pride
in her wealth. She had her carriage there,
and Mrs. Charrington, who really knew a

pair of steppes when she saw them, bad
broken the tenth commandment grievously
anent Mrs. Hopperton's bays.

"Can I take you out for a drive, Mrs.
Charrington 1 I am going at four, and 'ave
only got those Whittington girls with me.
As for 'Opperton, 'e was obliged to run into
town to look after business."

Mrs. Charrington declines the invitation
in somewhat stately fashion, which is
utterly lost upon plump, good-natured little
Mrs. Hopperton. That is the terrible part
of it : she never can be brought to a sense
of Mrs. Charrington's position, and instead
of allowing herself to be patronized, treats
the mistress of Byculla Grange with an
easy familiarity that makes her almost
snort with indignation, and amply avenges
several ladies whom Mrs. Charrington's
patronizing manner has reduced to a similar
state of impotent wrath.

Four o'clock is rather the stereotyped hour
at Harrogate for the afternoon ride or drive,

and at that time there is usually a tolerable
muster of carriages and hacks in front of
the hotel ; true, perhaps many of these
may be simply hired, but there are always
a considerable sprinkling of people whose
homes being near at hand bring their own
coaches and cattle. Mrs. Charrington had
re-appeared in hat and habit, and albeit on
a somewhat large scale, the lady looked
remarkably well in that attire ; moreover,
she could ride, and sat her horse like a
horse-woman. This riding party was a pet
organization of Mrs. Harrington's. It took
place about every other day, and had been
started especially to promote Major Crymes'
suit to Miss Aysgarth, for these two and
Julian Harperley made up the quartette,
mounted on their own steeds, and all looking
perfectly at home upon horseback. They
were a rather more imposing party than
was customary before the porte cohere of
the Queen, while Crymes, sitting down
straight and square in his saddle upon old

Cockatoo, was certain to bring feminine
heads to the windows. That tall swarthy
dragoon on his snowy handsome horse was
such a figure as women love to gaze upon.
Miss 'Aysgarth had somewhat chafed at
this arrangement in the first instance, foreseeing
that, in the order of things, Major
Crymes would naturally fall to her lot as
companion ; but the Major's tact had quite
done away with all repugnance on her part.
He never alluded to the past, and though
she knew that he had at one time bid fair
to become a declared admirer he never
trespassed on that role now.

They were sauntering through Snares
in indolent fashion when Crymes
said quietly,

"Miss Aysgarth, will you allow me to
allude to a subject painful in the extreme
to myself, and about which you must
doubtless have heard' a good deal from your
brother ? He, I know, was very much
attached to his old captain, and to this

minute cannot forgive my unfortunate share
in bringing about his exchange."

I think, Major Cryrnes, we had best
not discuss the subject. I make no pretence
but that Captain Calvert was a great
friend and favourite of mine ; and that I
was very sorry indeed to hear that he
had to leave on account of a fraud which
he committed most innocently and unknowingly."


Pardon me, you make a slight mistake
to start with. Captain Calvert was not in
the least obliged to leave, and had he been
well advised would not have done so. To
have refrained from making use of the
information I received, and did not receive,
please remember, until the race was over,
would not only have been most unjust to
those who had backed me, but might have
exposed myself to the charge of connivance.
That I should have lost my money goes for
nothing — only the year before last a well-known
owner of race-horses dropped some

thousands over the Cambridgeshire, for which
his mare started a hot favourite, and the
British public insisted upon it that he had
made a very good thing out of the business.
I don't want to lecture on horse-racing, but
I do want you to admit that I had a very
disagreeable business thrust upon me, and
that I could do no other than I did."

I am sure, Major Crymes, I have never
even hinted such a thing. All those best
qualified to judge, including my father,
bear testimony in your favour on this
point,"

That is quite sufficient," rejoined
Crymes. "You may implicitly rely upon
my not alluding to so sad an affair again."

He changed the subject immediately,
well content that he had got that preliminary
ice satisfactorily broken ; he exerted
himself to be amusing, and when the Major
did that he was usually successful. A man
of the world who had seen cities, come
across many celebrities, a keen observer and

skilled raconteur, his shrewd comments and
stories were worth listening to, and Miss
Aysgarth, despite her prejudice, could not
but admit that her ride had been pleasant
when they regained the hotel.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MAN FROM MANCHESTER.

Time slipped pleasantly away at Harrogate,
and both the Charringtons and Har-perles
were thoroughly enjoying themselves.
The delicious coolness of the place was
exactly the change the banker wanted, while
as for Miss Aysgarth, she saw no reason to
parade her troubles to the world; besides, her
brother kept up a desultory correspondence
with Cis, so that she was not altogether
without news of him. It is true she did
think sometimes that he was showing 
generosity in the matter of refraining
from correspondence. She knew that
had he written to her she would have

answered his letters, let her step-father say
what he would. He might feel bound to
restore her troth to her, but was she not
equally bound to refuse it. She could not
help feeling at times that this lover of hers
was carrying his sense of honour a little too
far. Even Major Crymes had endorsed her
opinion that Cis Calvert was wrong in not
sticking to his regiment. Of course that
little difficulty of finding money with which
to settle his bets had not presented itself
to her mind, though it had borne some
share in his decision to exchange. Still
Miss Aysgarth had fair grounds for good
hope that things would come right in the
end as regarded that love affair of hers.

The Charringtons were just the people to
keep the Queen's Hotel alive, and though the
lady's usurpation of authority and her husband's
somewhat arbitrary manner produced
occasional rebellion amongst the visitors,
yet upon the whole they enjoyed a sort of
popularity. Mrs. Charrington was perpetually

organizing picnics to see this place or that,
while her spouse showed infinite tact in the
starting of whist tables or the getting up of
a quiet pool in the billiard-room. Then again
there were county people who came fora
few days of Harrogate, mostly known to
Mrs. Charrington, and easily persuaded to
swell her forces for the invasion of Fountain
or Bolton Abbeys, to get up a dance for the
yeomanry, — at this time out for their annual
training, — or to engage in the charades or
other diversions that energetic lady might
devise for the evening's amusement ; and
if the sulphur wells bubbled, so did the
scandal springs, and there was much throwing
off of ailments both moral and physical.
Of course they didn't know it, but Mrs.
Charrington and her immediate set enjoyed
no more immunity than other people, and
it was whispered amongst visitors from the
manufacturing centres that Mrs. Charrington
had been divorced once, and that if her
present husband had not happened to be

VOL. II.

endowed with scarcely credible obtuseness,
she would ere this have been divorced twice.

"That poor Miss Aysgarth — handsome do
you call her ? good looking, my dear, is the
very furthest I can go — had been engaged
to one of the dragoons at York, who had
turned out a card-sharper and had to fly the
country ; that black-browed Major is in
the same regiment, these soldiers all hang
together, you know, and I dare say the corps
generally understand turning up the king.
No, I'd let him alone as regards card-playing
if I were you.

Crymes meanwhile continued to oscillate
between his military duties at York and
the pleasures of Harrogate, and w T e may be
sure strove steadily to work his way into
Miss Aysgarth's good graces, and he was
succeeding. I don't for one moment mean
that the girl had any feeling for him further
than that he was a pleasant acquaintance,
but he had undoubtedly established himself
upon that footing, and did not despair of

changing it into something warmer in due
course."

It was at this time there descended on
the Queen's Hotel, in the person of a Mr.
Fulsby, the self-made man from Manchester —
•a type which, however you may respect for
their energies, become social enormities on
account of their narrow-minded ignorance
and arrogance. Mr. Fulsby was a loud-voiced
man, firmly impressed with the belief
that Manchester was 'the hub of the
universe and that the rotation of the world
depended in some not precisely to be
explained way on cotton. There were two
phrases for ever in his mouth — " Manchester
won't have it, I tell you," and " I'm a self-made
man myself, mind." No baron of a
score of quarterings could have been more
proud of his descent than Mr. Fulsby was of
his want of it, but the peer would certainly
have been much more chary of allusion to
the subject.

Now that summer of '53 had brought

M 2

about one or two things that were much
in men's mouths : there was, to begin
upon, as far as our army was concerned,
the first symptom of what, for want of a
better term, I must call ' the great military
revival.' The close of the previous year
had seen England's mightiest warrior lain
to rest in St. Paul's Cathedral, and there
had dawned upon his successors that the
magnificent parade army might be found
a trifle under-armed and not altogether
versed in the requirements of campaigning.
The camp of Cobham, which made a charming;
lounge for fashionable London, and the
tardy recognition that a rifle really was preferable
to a smooth bore when it came to a
bullet meeting its billet, was the result of these
cogitations, and it is open to question whether
some of our warrior chiefs of the bow and
arrow school, who alternately thrash and are
thrashed in South Africa, have as yet got
much further in their military conclusions.
The second topic was the outbreak once

more of the eternal quarrel between the
Turk and the Muscovite, and upon that
subject the nation generally was at that
time on a gentle simmer, eventually resulting
in a boil that neither statesman, journalist,
nor political quidnunc could foresee — none
blinder perhaps to the possibility of this
outburst of national passion than what maybe
designated the Manchester school.

To interfere with barbarians in their play,
which usually consists in the murdering,
plundering, ravishing, and torturing of each
other, would hardly seem to be the business
of civilized nations, except the barbarians
were under their rule.

The reverse of this creed is at present in
vogue, and the prevention of atrocities everywhere
but within their own precincts the
bounden duty of governments. Still whenever
that undying feud between the Moslem and
the Tartar shall be finished, — and finished
shortly in favour of the latter it is bound to
be, — the possession of the keys of Europe

may lead to rivers of blood, and a death
grapple 'twixt the Teuton and the Slav.

It was that matter of jealousy about
the keys of Europe, and that fine old
traditional phantom called ' the balance of
power subject to perplexing and perpetual
variation as powers got out of one scale into
the other and so destroyed all equitable
equilibrium, that finally brought the western
powers to the idea that it was their bounden
duty to take part with the Turk as present
comfortably impotent gaoler of Europe.
The key of the lock in custody of one within
the compass of knocking down by any of
the community is naturally re-assuring with
regard to liberty.

Now, further than that the chivalry of
woman's nature impels her to take part with
the weaker side, I can give you no reason,
but certain it is, at that time — and if I
again remind you I am talking of the year
'53, the permanence and constancy of this
quarrel must be my excuse for it — the ladies

mostly raised their voices in behalf of the
Turk, while men of the Fulsby stamp, though
deprecating war as a barbarous and antediluvian
way of settling differences that
ought to have been long obsolete, cast such
sympathies as they had towards Eussia,
who as the stronger power would probably
finish up the business to her own advantage
speedily, and who, moreover, did a good
export trade of her own in corn, and was
not a bad customer altogether to Manchester.
It may be easily guessed that Mr. Fulsby
did not altogether suit Mrs. Charrington
and her select circle. In fact, they all
literally dreaded the advent of this vulgar,
boisterous, and utterly irrepressible man in
the drawing-room.

Mr. Charrington was for once in accord
with his wife ; he was intense in his likes
and dislikes, and he positively loathed the
man from Manchester. He shrank from
his noise, and although Mr. Charrington was
by no means deficient in gad-fly attributes

his sting fell utterly innocuous on the pachydermatous
hide of Fulsby. That anybody
could be hurt or offended at his plain-speaking
I do not think ever occurred to this
braggadocio child of the spindles, but for all
that a Nemesis was awaiting him.

Fond as he was of alluding to the army
as an expensive and useless encumbrance,
and a thing that might be profitably reduced,
if not altogether done away with, he still
had a hazy idea that Horace Crymes might
be an awkward man to air this theory
before. The Major's swart handsome face
and keen dark eyes would have made most
men hesitate before they ventured on taking
a liberty with him ; and though Mr. Fulsby
was in happy ignorance of them, there were
two or three stories of what the Major
had done when exasperated past endurance
that most thoroughly corroborated that
opinion.

One evening, whether it was his evil
genius that prompted him, or whether he

had quaffed deeper of a peculiar brand of
Irroy that he rather affected who shall say,
but joining Mrs. Harrington's circle in the
drawing-room, he found that lady expatiating
on the cause of those dear Turks, and trusting
that Europe would intervene in their
behalf. They were called so in those days,
although it has been the fashion to call
them ' unspeakable ' of late ; what that
may mean I never met any one able to
interpret.

"Nonsense, madam," interposed Mr.
Fulsby ; " the idea of our interfering in the
affairs of our neighbours, ridiculous ! we
have thrown all that nonsense on one side
for good, I hope. Our business is to develop
our trade."

"But I suppose you will admit that
nations, like individuals, must shape their
conduct by some ideas of right and wrong,"
exclaimed Miss Aysgarth. " They are surely
bound to protest, even by force of arms,
against injustice ; and it certainly appears

to me that this quarrel is none of Turkey's
seeking."

What have we to clo with other people's
quarrels ? If they must fight, let 'em fight.
Trade don't develop that way ; and if it
wasn't for the absurdity of maintaining
thousands of armed men in idleness there
would be an end to war, not that there's
any fear of this country being lugged into
it. I'm a self-made man myself, but I
know Manchester's opinion, and I tell you,
ma'am, Manchester won't have it."

Manchester's not England," observed
Crymes, quietly.

Not England, sir ! Not exactly, perhaps
; but I suppose you'll admit that
Manchester is the mouthpiece of England."

And at that time I think Manchester was
somewhat of that impression.

"Place in Lancashire where they manufacture
cotton, isn't it \ " rejoined the Lancer
in his most imperturbable manner. " They're
supposed to be rather judges of the price of

calico, but I don't think England looks to
them for much further information."

Mr. Fulsby literally simmered with wrath ;
there was an unmistakable smile on the
faces of his audience at Crymes' retort.

"You rather underrate the power of trade,
sir. Manchester has set its face against
standing armies, and, mark me, as far as weare
concerned, standing armies will cease to
exist."

Quite right," rejoined Crymes, blandly.
Didn't know Manchester had a standing
army myself; but if Manchester don't want
it she's quite right to do away with it."

You twist my words, sir," rejoined Mr.
Fulsby, wrathfully. " I'm a self-made man
myself, and can't argue with chaps like you,
who woke to find your bread ready buttered
for you ; but what Manchester makes
up its mind to Manchester does, and I tell
you she's come to the conclusion she don't
want soldiers."

But, Mr. Fulsby, the country will never

stand that," exclaimed Mrs. Charrington.
We shall never consent to do away with
the army because you cotton lords consider
it unnecessary."

A useless incumbrance, madam, simply
provocative of war," rejoined Mr. Fulsby
tartly.

If this Utopian idea still clings to some
people in these days, it is easy to imagine
how much more it was the case in ? 53, when
war had not been practically brought home
to the mind of the nation for nigh forty
years, and when some of the wilder theorists
of the Manchester school were actually
beginning to indulge in the idea of the
millennium, of the lying down of the lion
with the lamb, and all those other Arcadian
views which mislead folks who cannot bear
in mind the one fixed immutable fact, that
human nature never changes, that this
veneer we call civilization is mightily soon
scraped off, and the noble savage, with all
his grand throat-cutting instincts intact, lies

beneath. Civilized ! alack ! my setter,
whose education has taught him not to rend
sheep, is about as much civilized as his
master, whose teaching bids him avoid
rending men, and the inclination is probably
more frequent in the man than the dog.

Well, Mr. Fulsby," said Crymes, quietly,
I happen to be a unit of that incumbrance
of which you complain. I don't profess to
know anything about the cotton business,
but auy fool knows that a big war is bad
for the trade of the country that goes into
it. You've been kind enough to prophesy
our disbandment ; I always like to reciprocate
a good turn. Now listen to my words
of inspiration. Before this time next year we
soldiers shall be probably doubled in numbers,
and that we are not thrice as strong
will be cause for the nation's regret ; before
this time next year Manchester will have
learnt she is not the voice of England, and
England will be drunk with all the intoxication
of having once more thrown up her

hat and stepped into the European prize-ring."


You don't surely mean that ? " exclaimed
Mrs. Charrington.

Indeed I do. Mr. Fulsby and his compatriots
have very little knowledge of the
temper of the nation, and a very exaggerated
idea of their own influence. This sympathy
with the Turks, about which I offer no
opinion, is growing amongst all classes, and
the emissaries of Louis Napoleon do their
best to spread it. He knows what he wants,
we don't, and unless the Emperor Nicholas,
about the proudest and most obstinate
potentate in Europe, gives in we shall find
ourselves engaged in a big war before we
know where we are."

Ridiculous, sir ! " exclaimed Mr. Fulsby.
You pooh pooh the power of Manchester,"
and the irate gentleman's eyes gave symptoms
of starting out of his head. "A fig
for your British army. Sir, I tell you as a
self-made man — "

For which you deserve twenty one years
penal servitude," struck in Crymes, sharply.
Had you been begotten in ordinary
fashion we might have pitied you ; but that
you should have had the presumption to
construct yourself should be avenged with
the severest penalty of the law."

For a few seconds Mr. Fulsby glared as a
titter ran round the circle, then rising,
looked as if about to hurl some furious
retort at his assailant ; but the Lancer's
imperturbable countenance and tall sinewy
figure perhaps rendered that hardly advisable,
and with some muttered remark to the
effect that personalities were no arguments,
the man from Manchester made what
might be termed a florid exit. If the retort
was of the strongest it must be remembered
that the provocation was great. To be told
your calling is superfluous, and about to be
done away with, is enough to produce irritation
in the breast of man, let his vocation be
what it may ; while that ostentatious vaunting

that our prosperity is due to our own
exertions is always likely to exasperate
those who have either not exerted themselves
or done so inefficiently. Most men
who have done anything are, so to speak,
self-made, but they don't brag about it.

You hit too hard, Major Crymes," said
Miss Aysgarth, as soon as she had mastered
a strong tendency to laugh.

Pardon me," replied the dragoon. " Mr.
Fulsby is a man who comprehends nothing
but the cudgel, while the arrogance of the
tail of the Manchester school towards my
cloth warrants retaliation on our part to the
extent of our ability and opportunity. Besides,
I most thoroughly meant what I said
concerning their exaggerated idea of their
power in the country. Their chiefs know
better, but the mass of the Manchester
party really believe they are the arbiters of
English politics."

That Manchester is a power in the land,
still representing as it does large manufacturing

interests, no one would dispute ; but it
certainly does not claim for itself what it
did in ; 53, when that famous triumvirate of
quakers sped to the banks of the Neva, with
considerable belief that their intervention
might stay the impending war. Fancy the
autocratic Nicholas foregoing his spring at
the Moslem's throat on the intercession of
an embassy from Cottonopolis. The last
thirty years have dispelled a good many
illusions regarding the brotherhood of
nations and the decadence of the European
prize-ring, things supposed to be quite
accomplished previous to that pitching of
the ropes and stakes ' around Sebastopol.

If Miss Aysgarth had accused Horace
Crymes of hitting hard, she nevertheless
quite appreciated such hitting, as women
always do when done in their behalf; and
there could be no denying that Mr. Fulsby
had been for some days now a vulgar, noisy,
dictatorial bore. He was scarce likely
to trouble them again while the Major's

VOL. II. N

sarcastic tongue was at their service, and in
fact speedily took his departure, to which
the ruffling of his self-importance had no
doubt somewhat contributed. That Crymes
was steadily advancing in Miss Aysgarth's
good graces was transparent, so much so
that the sulphur drinking throng already
whispered it about as a settled thing ; and
further, were kind enough to pronounce it a
very suitable arrangement, which, in their
utter ignorance of all details concerning the
pair, showed a large-hearted aptitude for
arriving at an opinion past all commendation.
But Crymes was no whit deceived by
the apparent success, nor was his ci devant
flame, Mrs. Charrington. He knew perfectly
that he had as yet made no real progress
with the girl, although it was a good deal to
have established himself once more on a
friendly footing with her ; but to overstep
that a hair's-breadth would be, he knew
well, to undo all he had taken such pains to
build up. No ; he felt that he must wait

and trust to the cards once more turning up
in his favour.

You progress very slowly, Horace,"
observed Mrs. Charrington as they strolled
about the ' Stray ' one morning ; " but I
cannot say I blame you. To push the siege
more vigorously would only be to court
defeat, and it is always better to avoid
coming to the point until success is tolerably
certain."

You are very good, and have so clear
an insight into things," returned Crymes.
News from India may serve my turn, or,
on the other hand, news to India. The
sulphur is in great blast this year, carrying
an ounce or two more to the tumbler than
usual, and consequently there is no saying
what Harrogate may feel impelled to write or
say. We live here in a glass-house, under
the eyes of people, who, in very indolence,
arrive at all sorts of preposterous conclusions
concerning us. Whether they have assigned
me to you or Miss Aysgarth, with which of

N 2

you my elopement is speedily prophesied,,
who shall say ; but to doubt that such
rumours are current would be heresy to the
old sulphur well. That amongst the crowds
that come here many correspond with India
there can be little doubt. Harrogate may
do me a turn in that wise'

Nobody can accuse you of not reckoning
up every chance in your favour," returned
Mrs. Charrington, laughing. " You remind
me almost of Mr. Toodle in the play, who
bought the doorplate engraved with the
name of Thompson on the supposition that
he might have a daughter who might grow
up, and might then marry a man of the
name of Thompson. Yes ; Harrogate may
write, no doubt, to Secunderabad, and
describe you as engaged to Annie Aysgarth ;
but it's hardly likely to unless you bring it
about yourself."

If you cannot help me it is not to be
managed," rejoined Crymes, moodily.

"And I most certainly can't. What is

more, I would not if I could. I'll do a
good deal for you, Horace — even colour a
bit in your interest, if you like ; but I'll not
pen a deliberate untruth."

A curious illustration this of moral perception.
Mrs. Charring ton saw no harm in
•a little embroidery, nor even perhaps in the
utterance of a pretty fib ; but she refused to
place a deliberate lie upon paper. I can
recollect a curious story illustrative of this
feeling;. An old friend of mine was retiring
from the army under a warrant which
allowed favourable retirement after certain
service, conditional upon settling in Canada.
The whole thing was an absolute fraud. It
involved goings out to the Canada with a
return ticket, applying for a grant of land,
which was at once ceded you upon payment
of a few shillings per acre, with the condition
that a certain portion should be cleared — the
grant was always in the back woods — within
three years. You then presented yourself
to the Governor-general with the certificate

of your purchase, obtained from him a certificate
of your settlement in the country,
and returned home by the next steamer,
and obtained your retirement. As for the
nominal acres in the back woods, you
thought no more about them, and the
required work not having been done in the
three years, they again lapsed to the Crown.
My friend went through the usual course,
bought his acres, and then sought an interview
with the Governor General.

Of course you mean to settle in Canada,
Colonel S — ," said His Excellency, dipping
his pen into the ink preparatory to signing
the certificate.

No, I can hardly say that," rejoined
the Colonel with some little hesitation.

His Excellency threw down the pen and
said, laughing,

You can hardly expect me to sign this
when you refuse to say it represents your
intentions."

It was very absurd; but really the

Colonel's conscientious scruples stood in his
way for that day, and it was not until he
recalled that his military life, guided by the
Queen's regulations, had been passed in
similar frauds, that for years he had been
compelled to frame every application for
leave as 'upon urgent private affairs
whether they meant a month's shooting, a
week's racing, or a round of the theatres,
that he bethought himself he might yield
to one further military fiction. He did so
next day, infinitely to His Excellency's
amusement.

Mrs. Charrington's conscientious scruples
were on a similar par, and it may be equally
to be overcome on mature consideration.

CHAPTER IX.

To break adrift from the nets of Circe
requires much resolve. I wonder how
often men, conscious of the danger that
surrounded them, have vowed to sever their
bonds, and yet, unless aided by accident or
the caprice of the lady, have found themselves
powerless to throw off the gyves.
Cis Calvert felt that his intimacy with the
Daventrys was likely to end in trouble of
some sort, and yet he did not see exactly
how to withdraw from their house. He
knew that the gentleman was an unscrupulous
gambler ; he knew that the lady,
though wondrous fair, was an equally
unscrupulous coquette, and yet he was on

such terms with the latter as made it very
difficult to change the footing; on which he
stood with them. Partly from pique and
partly from caprice, Lizzie Daventry had
devoted herself in earnest to his subjugation,
and Cis found himself installed as a favoured
admirer with very little effort on his own
part. Day by day the chain grew stronger,
and he could no longer shut his eyes to the
fact that he was almost Mrs. Daventry 's
avowed lover, and was gradually awaking
to the fact that she could be a somewhat
tyrannical mistress.

Conversation was apt to languish when
the Major and his wife breakfasted tete-d-ttte.
The lady was scarce likely to provoke it,
as she knew by experience the unpleasant
tone it was likely to take. Her spouse
was generally busy over his last night's
card account, notes connected with money
matters, and divers private businesses of
that description, previous to going down to
his office. He was one of those men who

find themselves settlers in Hindostan by
compulsion, that is to say, they are so
heavily involved to the native money-lenders
that leaving the country becomes simply
impossible to them, and the least hint of
such a thing on their part would at once
consign them to imprisonment, or would
have done at the time of my story ; quite
possible to become a very grey-headed
Sisyphus in trying to get rid of that ever
recurring stone, the exorbitant interest-bearing
bills of one's younger days.

It is no use blinking the question," said
the Major harshly at last. " I must go fora
coup over the races here next month.
There's a bill to take up from Lowlanders,
and here's a pretty tidy account come in
against you for dresses and fal-lals of one
sort and another from Bombay."

Let me see it," she remarked quietly, as
she extended her hand.

He threw it across to her as he rejoined —

I don't complain ; we can't afford to look

poor, but eight hundred and sixty seven
rupees is money, you know."

One can't dress for nothing," she replied,
carelessly, " and you'd be cheaply out of it
if that were all."

If there are many more you'd better
not have them sent to me" he said with a
sneer. " You've friends, no doubt, who
will see you don't want for frocks."

Her face flushed slightly at the insult, but
she made no reply. She had some right to
say she was what he had made her. From
the first years of her marriage she had been
the attraction of a gamester's home, the lure
to bring dupes to his net. She had been
taught to play the game of flirtation as if it
was ecarte, and instructed that it behoved
her admirers for the most part to keep
her in millinery. Daventry preferred not
actually to know that it was so, but that
his wife's admirers should settle her dressmaker's
bills was not likely to offend his.
sense of delicacy.

Another thing," he continued at length,
I shall want Calvert to ride for me. As
it happens there are only some one or two
fellows in the place who have any idea of
jockeyship in reality, though there are
dozens who think themselves within a few
pounds of Frank Butler. "

Well, why don't you ask him ? Surely
that is your business, not mine. I don't
suppose he'll make any difficulty about it."

But that is just what the confounded
fool does do," exclaimed Daventry, rising
and pacing the room with impatient steps.
He says he has determined never to ride
again, that he has got into such trouble
.about some race at home that he never
means to have anything more to do with it.
That's what's sent him out here, I suppose.
It takes a real artist to pull a horse cleverly,
and he probably stopped a favourite a little
too transparently and feels as thoroughly
penitent as the rest of us when we're found
out."

"And you think that is what brought
Captain Calvert to grief in England," she
said slowly. " I doubt it ; but any way if you
want anything of that sort done out here I'd
recommend you not to ask him to do it."

What nonsense you talk," he retorted
impatiently. " I want him to ride Eed
Eonald for me, the best ' waler ' in the
presidency. They'll put a stiffish weight
on the horse as an Australian bred one, but
I think he can give it to anything they
have here."

But if he has made up his mind to ride
no more hadn't you better ask somebody
down from Bombay."

No," rejoined her husband shortly.
Woman's mission in this world is to upset
man's resolutions. It will be for you to
make him change his mind, and to the best
of my belief you will find it not an uncongenial
task. Be that as it may, remember
I expect to hear that Calvert will be quite
willing to ride for me if I want him, either

from himself or you in the course of the
next two or three days."

Of course I shall ask him if I am
ordered to," she rejoined contemptuously.

I must trouble you, madam, to do a
little more than that," sneered Daventry,
"namely, to exert your all-powerful influence
that his answer shall be in the
affirmative. Men don't usually say no to
you when you plead in earnest."

"You at all events have slight cause to
say so," she retorted sharply.

No," he answered, laughing, " that is a
necessary acquirement of matrimony ; husbands
who have not learnt that don't have
a good time as a rule. For the present
adieu, and don't forget," and so saying
Major Daventry disappeared.

For a few seconds Lizzie's features
wore a look of unutterable loathing. She
could hardly have said whether hatred,
contempt, or fear predominated in her
feelings towards her husband. He had

ruthlessly broken down all womanly pride
and self-respect in her breast, and he had
done this simply by the jeering tyranny
that he exercised over her. If there had
been one thing she had dreaded in the
early days of her married life, it had been
her husband's jibing, mocking tongue ; when
the first noontide of their passion passed,
she found her devotion ridiculed, her fondness
derided. She said truly she was what
he had made her : he had killed all honest
affection in her, and taught her that a
heart was an inconvenience both morally
and physically ; that it was the nature of
the sexes to prey upon each other to some
extent, and that flirtation was to be made
profitable by the more enlightened of their
generation ; that admirers were a matter
of course to every good-looking; woman,
married or otherwise, and that admirers
should be expected to supply all such trifling
superfluities as gloves, flowers, fans, &c.
Men found it costly to serve on Lizzie's

staff in these latter clays, as her views of the
superfluities got enlarged, including bijouterie
and even riding-horses. Nothing very
new about this theory of irregular taxation ;
it was understood as well in imperial Some
as it is in modern Babylon ; there are some
points the world varies very little about.
Civilization may advance, but human nature
never changes, and when that is sufficiently
moved this veneer we call civilization
seldom suffices to restrain it.

But one curious fact marked Mrs. Coventry's
flirtation with Cis Calvert — she had
never even hinted at a desire for anything
from his hands, and concerning her wants
and wishes, Lizzie was wont to be extremely
candid with her admirers; and, little Bedouin
that she was, Mrs. Daventry held that alone
should tell Cis that her feeling for him was
of a different kind from that which usually
characterized her love-affairs. Calvert, unfortunately
sauntering through a flirtation
in which he was only half in earnest, never

even thought about it. He was so bored
with this Indian life that he could not forego
the society of the pleasantness woman in the
station, and although quite aware that to
be the accredited lover of a lady who is
on very indifferent terms with her husband
is equivalent to trifling with dynamite, he
consoled himself with the idea that it would
all come out right in the long' run.

Lizzie mused for a little over her husband's
behest. There could be no harm, she
thought, in asking Cis to do that much for
her sake, and rarely as she was accustomed
to dispute her husband's commands, it maybe
doubted whether she would have obeyed
him in anything that threatened to work
woe to Cis Calvert. She was by no means
sure that she was in love with him, indeed
quite doubted her capacity for being in love
with any man, would have probably remarked
that she had done with all that
nonsense long ago ; but she was clear, nevertheless,
about two points, that Cis should

VOL. II. O

never receive harm at her hands, and that
she could not endure the idea of his being
in love with another woman.

Mrs. Daventry may not mean her admirer
any harm, but there is the brewing of a
cauldron of Hecate's own broth on these
mixed feelings of hers.

There was little fear but what Calvert
would call in the course of the day; if he did
not drop in for tiffin he was sure to look in
before the evening ride or drive, in which
he was now so constantly cavalier in charge.
Some veteran habitues of the racket court,
who took their exercise there steadily, and
abjured all social allurements, marvelled
much what had become of such a dangerous
man in the left court as Captain Calvert ;
but those more in the swim rapidly enlightened
them, and told that converse of Hood's
vagabond count ' —

How for hope of winning her tender regards
He'd cut cutting of balls, and the shuffling of cards,
And could be found all day in her pockets."

And then there was much wagging of heads
and sorrowful lamentation over another goodman
gone wrong, as is usually the case when
feminine influence overcomes the attractions
of the club or mess-table.

Cis dropped in as was usual to tiffin, and,
singularly enough, happened to be the only
visitor, for as a rule that meal at the
Daventrys' was generally invaded by a
considerable sprinkling of idlers, the only
man whose absence it was possible in thew
T hole cantonment to calculate upon with
certainty being the host. But be it understood
that the visitors were invariably of
the sterner sex ; the feminine element was
in a minority, as in a society where the
men outnumber the women in the proportion
of ten to one it is only natural they
should be.

How nice of you to come and break
my solitude ! " exclaimed Lizzie, as she
extended her hand. "I really thought I
was going to sit down by myself. I don't

o 2

mean to say that my own society is not
sufficient for me at times, but to-day does
not happen to be one of those times ; this
morning I yearn for the voice of my
fellow creatures."

And I," said Cis, laughing, " am by no
means so catholic ; I restrict my yearnings
to the voice of one of theme"'

I curtsey, metaphorically, to the ground,,
monsieur, for so pretty a speech ; but in
the mean time curry and cutlets are getting
cold. Come, let's investigate them before
it is too late."

She led the way into the dining-room as
she spoke, and had no reason to apologize
for her luncheon. Whatever Daventry's circumstances
might be, however tight might
be the strings of the exchequer, he always
kept open house, and was rigid in his dictum
that the thing should be done properly ;
neither slovenly cookery nor indifferent wine
were ever tolerated in any menage of his,
and it was scarce likely that his present

home should present any infringement of
the rule.

What were you doing all yesterday that
I didn't see you'' said Mrs. Daventry.

"Well, I had an attack of duty, and
what with one thing and another, never
seemed to have a moment to myself."

You might have found time to run upto
tell me you hadn't time to call," rejoined
Lizzie laughing. "I'd an Irish admirer
once who never neglected that ceremony."

'•Ah, but you must be an Irishman to
indulge in such vagaries. 'The bull,' in the
hands of the Anglo-saxon, covers him with
ridicule ; we lack the assurance and that
inimitable appreciation of humbug which
distinguishes the Celt. Humbug an Englishman,
and when he awakes to it he is
wroth ; humbug an Irishman, if you can,
and he not only grins, but warms to you on
tumbling to your blarney. Bar whiskey,
there's nothing he's so fond of save a
political ruction."

And pray how do you come to be so
learned about Ireland ? "

I have been quartered four years in the
country, and know this much, that the
Celt has been humbugging the Saxon ever
since the latter first put foot on the green
island, and the Saxon, poor fool, keeps on
studying and legislating for him, and goes
over to talk to him, and really thinks
he understands him. Why can't he ]eave
him to the state of anarchy and discord
he delights in. Like the red man of the
West, he might gradually improve himself
off the face of the earth, then — "

I brought it on myself, so have no right
to complain ; but when I confided to you
my meek little joke about my devoted
admirer in ' the Dangers I little thought
I was to become the recipient of Captain
Calvert's panacea for the woes of that
Cinderella of nations."

"A Cinderella that persistently grovels
in the ashes. Ten thousand pardons ! " exclaimed

Cis ; " I cannot think how on earth
Ireland absorbed the conversation in this
way. I have read there was a time in
London when 'the dear Poles,' an equally
impossible people, similarly permeated discourse.
There always seems to be some
outraged nationality always irrepressible ;
it seems to be the ' dear Turks ' just now,
and judging by the papers, one really might
almost think England means taking up
arms in their behalf'

Don't talk nonsense, Cis ; you know
England never fights except out here ;
anyway, I detest politics. Do you know, I
have heard something about you — why
you left England."

Ah, that story has reached you at last,"
replied Calvert drily. " Is, I dare say, the
talk of the cantonment by this."

I don't know about that. I should
think not at all likely. It was about a race,
was it not I "

Yes ; but you can hardly suppose I

want to discuss the miserable business over

again.

Perhaps not, but suppose I do ? " and
Lizzie stole a look at her companion from
under her long lashes.

You ! " he exclaimed, with undisguised
amazement.

Just so ; I want to know how much she
had to do with it."

I told you once before that my trouble
had nothing to do with a woman," returned
Ois, doggedly.

Ah, so you did ; but then I could hardly
expect you to tell me the truth at that
early stage of our acquaintance. I have
some claim to demand frank confession
now, I think."

I have nothing to confess," he rejoined
angrily, as he rose, " and if I had should
decline to confess it. If you know my
story, and choose to strike me off your
visiting list, I can only regret that the
pleasantness part of my life here is over,

and thank you for having lightened the
paste*'

Sit down, please, and don't be absurd.
You know my house would be open to you
whatever might be alleged against you in
England. If any one should be staunch
to her friends, despite what may be said
against them, it should be me ; not that
they have stood by me altogether as they
should have done, but I forgive them," and
Lizzie smiled sweetly, as one who, pardoning
her enemies, heaped coals of fire upon their
heads.

But Mrs. Daventry was not altogether
satisfied. Her lover was by no means so
malleable as she would have him. She was
accustomed to find her victims subservient
to her rein, and it was patent to her that
Cis Calvert was very capable of breaking
his chains. Her feeling towards him was
still somewhat mixed, but if there were
moments when she, so to speak, raged against
him for his insensibility, as she termed it,

there were others when she melted in good
earnest as she thought about him. She was
habituated to see men lose their heads about
her, and make mock of it, and it was the
knowledge that Cis had by no means lost
his balance in presence of her fascinations
that so provoked her.

Do you know that you have never given
me anything since I appointed you my
adorer in chief," she remarked, after a considerable
pause. " I really think you ought
to have presented me with some token of
your fealty."

' What shall it be ? " he replied gaily. " It
is so difficult to get anything nice here. Shall I
order you a ring or a bangle from Bombay ? "

"No, you shall give me something of
your own for a keepsake. Let me have
that locket on your watch chain."

It was a plain gold locket with a somewhat
fantastic A graved on one side of it ;.
but it had been the gift of Annie Aysgarth,
and contained a small coil of her soft dark

hair. Calvert's face hardened as the memory
of his lost love was thus rudely recalled to
him.

No' he replied sternly, " I cannot give
you that. It is a keepsake that I will never
part with."

A gage d' amour, of course," retorted Mrs.
Daventry pettishly.

And if it were ? "

Then all I can say," exclaimed Lizzie
vehemently, " is, that it is very bad taste, to
say the least of it, to flourish your former
love-gifts before the woman you at present
profess to be devoted to."

Now this was to some extent an exaggeration,
and yet it was one impossible for Cis
to escape from. He certainly was continually
at the Daventrys', he was the lady's
constant escort, and must have pleaded
guilty to being engaged in a tolerably pronounced
flirtation, but he certainly had
never so far professed devotion to the extent
that Lizzie insinuated.

I can hardly be accused of that' he
rejoined quietly; "this locket has hung on
my watch chain for some time, and you
never heard me make the faintest allusion
to it."

I wonder whether you care one bit
about me' she cried vehemently. " I
wonder whether there's a soul on earth has
any real regard for me. I'm a pretty woman,
and it flatters your vanity to be supposed
a favourite of mine ; but I doubt whether
any man ever honestly cared for me —
whether there's been one of you all who
would have risked, not life in my behalf,
but some inconvenience."

The way in which she totally ignored
her husband was, though astonishing, not
altogether unwarranted, for that gentleman
would have been perhaps the very last
man to inconvenience himself on her
account.

You know I care for you, Lizzie," said
calvert quietly, " that I would do anything

for you. I can't give you this trinket, but
tell me anything you fancy, and you shall
have it."

He spoke as if the lamp of Aladdin were
in his possession.

Oh yes, it is the old story," said the
lady, disdainfully. "You will give us anything
we want, or do anything we wish,
and the minute we acquaint you with our
wants or wish, then you formulate your
excuses for non-compliance."

You are unjust, and have no cause to
say that of me. When I am fairly tried I
don't think you will find me wanting."

You mean that you would really do
something for me if I asked you, even if it
was something you didn't quite like ? " and
she glanced at him somewhat inquisitively,
curious to know how far her empire
extended.

Can you doubt it ? Prove me when you
will, and you will find it so."

That is the conventional answer you all

make, and when we do prove you we see
what you mean by it."

I have done," rejoined Cis ; " like you,
I don't believe in over much protestation.
Should the time ever come you'll find you
can depend upon me."

Good, then you must ride Eed Ronald
for us in the forthcoming races. There, Cis,
you can't complain you've been tried very
hardly," and Mrs. Daventry threw herself
back in her chair with a light laus;h.

In an instant Cis Calvert saw that he
was trapped. After his just uttered protestations
it was impossible to refuse Lizzie's
request, and yet he could not but see that
it was prompted by her husband. Sore
very about that terrible fiasco with the
Mumper, he had determined to have nothing
more to do with race riding ; he would give
the world no further opportunity to accuse
him of foul play in that line, at all events,
and he had doggedly been deaf to all
Daventry 's persuasions on the subject. But

now there was nothing else for it but to
assent.

I had made up my mind never to ride
again, but of course if you want me, I am
at your service," he said slowly. " Don't,
please, run away with the idea that I ama
great artist in the saddle. I can ride a
bit, and you may at all events depend upon
my doing my best for you."

Thank you so much," she replied as she
bent towards him. " You know we both
gamble a little, and I don't mind confessing
that, as far as I am concerned, it is necessary
that I should win money somehow. Milliners
get exigeant at times, and my lord and
master, though quite capable of bitter invective
if I am not decently dressed, is very
intolerant of their bills."

Can I be of any assistance ? " said Cis, ina
low tone.

No' she rejoined sharply. " You ought
to know that you are the last man I would
take help from of that description. Let me

enjoy the luxury, Cis, of having for once —
well loved a man for himself, and without
thought of what he could give me."

You do me great honour," said Cis, softly,
but I think you are wrong not to make use
of me if you need it. Never mind, Ked
Eonald must be driven home triumphant, and
then we shall be all landed by Endanger's
stream for the present ; and now, good-bye''

'adieu — ride out with me tomorrow
morning, and well go up to the race-course,
and you shall give Ked Eonald a gallop. It's
worth doing, for he can stride along. I
rode him myself once, but he pulls too hard,
and takes hold of his bit in a way that made
me feel insufferably small at the end of two
miles. I never was so done."

"Very well, I must try what I can do.
Once more good-bye."

She looked after him for a moment, then
gave an impatient stamp of her little foot.

I don't believe he cares a rush about
me," she muttered. "Why can't I bring

this man to my feet — I who have turned
the heads of so many ? There's a woman in
England, let him say what he likes ; but I'll
beat her if I die for it, and he shall give me
that locket, her locket, before many weeks
are over."

VOL. IT.

CHAPTER X.

NOW BARABBAS WAS A ROBBER.

Cis had a dim foreboding as he rode
home that he had done a foolish thing in
consenting to ride this race, and yet for
the life of him he did not quite see how
he could have got out of it. Say no to
Mrs. Daventry under the circumstances he
could not ; and after all, he argued, what
harm could possibly come to himself over
it ? The probability was he rode as well
as any one he was likely to meet ; the horse
was well known, and if it didn't win, well,
it could not be helped. It was, no doubt,
looking to what it had already accomplished,
a good horse ; but there was no denying

it was called on to concede a deal of weight,
and, as all those understanding of racing
know, that brings the mightiest of turf
paragons to grief at last. Still he could
only do his best with Eed Ronald, and if
that slashing brown ' waler ' failed to hold
his own there was no more to be said.

Conversation becomes limited in the
monotony of an Indian cantonment, and
anything that breaks the wonted stagnation
is hailed with acclamation. The races
evoked all the sporting tendencies of the
Anglo-saxon, and men deemed innocent of
turf mysteries suddenly became endued
w T with all the shibboleth of Newmarket, and
babbled of weights, trials, staying, &c, as
do their kinsmen at home before the great
October handicaps are decided. The Nizam's
Gold Plate Cis was fain to admit was cause
of as much talk, aye, and speculation, as
that ill-starred cup, for attainment of which
such trouble has befallen him the winter
previous. This horse of Daventry's was in

P 2

every one's mouth certainly, but the race
carried so many penalties and allowances
that it partook somewhat of the nature of
a handicap, and there were various maiden
Arabs that were reputed to be able to
gallop, and were more or less fancied by
those connected with them. Rather prominent
amongst these was a chestnut horse
called Tippoo, that was always bought
up with alacrity at the pool, selling at a
certain price, and those who bought him
were usually no neophytes at Indian racing.
"With one of these Cis had got rather
friendly, and he, upon one of these occasions,
asked him if he knew anything about
Tippoo.

"Nothing in the least," replied the other,
frankly. " Then why do I so often bid for
him, you will ask ? Simply because he
belongs to Captain Gideon, who is about
the knowingly hand on the Bombay turf.
I don't even know whether Tippoo's coming
here, but if Gideon and his horse do turnup,

I can't think he'll have brought horn sofar
for nothing. But you are likely to be
more in the way of knowing than any one.
Daventry 's a great friend of yours, isn't
he?"

Cis nodded assent.

Well, he and Gideon were racing partners
once, and though they split, it was
quite a friendly dissolution of partnership.
He'll most likely put up with Daventry if
he comes ; and if he tells any one — and that
Sim Gideon will open his mouth at all is
always doubtful — it will be Daventry. As
you're going to ride for him, he's bound to
give you a hint if Tippoo's dangerous, for I
have seen you back Red Ronald more than
once."

Yes, I generally stand my own mount
for a bit, and the old ' waler ' is an honest
good horse, though it's quite possible he maybe
asked to give too much weight away this
time."

That is just it. I think it will bring

him to grief; but as I don't see what is
to beat him, I've back'cl the man. Sim
Gideon's green and white sleeves are always
dangerous if they start ; but," said the
speaker, "backing them is risky, for they
so often don't."

Cis was now riding Ked Eonald in his
morning gallops, and the way in which the
big brown Australian took hold of his bit
and strode away with him increased his
jockey's confidence, and he felt, despite the
weight, it would take something superior in
Arabs to dispose of him. Daventry and his
wife were usually out to superintend the
morning's exercise, and day by day the
whole party got more and more enthusiastic
over the prowess of Red Eonald.

Coming one evening to a dinner to which
he had been asked as strictly en famille, he
was somewhat surprised to find Lizzie endeavouring
to make conversation with a slight,
dark, sallow-faced man, whose nose betrayed
unmistakable Semitic lineage. The new

arrival was evidently no talker ; albeit the
keen black eyes most certainly gave the lie
to any theory that his reticence was the
result of feebleness of intellect. A physiognomist
would have recognized the shrewdness
of the countenance equally with a
man of the world, the latter by the way
more to be depended on in judgment than
the speculative philosopher. The thin lips
were hardly indicative of his race, but they
told a tale of quiet determination without
much notification of intention. Captain
Gideon was essentially not a lady's man ; his
manners, like his dress, were quiet and irreproachable,
but he had evidently no small
talk, and rarest of virtues, understood the
art of remaining silent when he had nothing
to say. He bowed when introduced to Cis,
and honoured him with a somewhat comprehensive
stare, but made no attempt at conversation.
Even when the races came under
discussion, and the Daventrys and Cis
waxed eulogistic over the powers of tied

Konald, and dwelt upon the great chance he
possessed of taking the Nizam's Plate,
Sim Gideon listened in a dreamy sort of
way, as talk about a thing in which he could
have no possible interest.

"But you have brought down a horse
yourself, Captain Gideon," exclaimed Cis ;
and what is more, your chance is fancied
by several people here."

Indeed ! I don't know much about
Tippoo ' myself ; brought him with me
chiefly to see what he was like. There's
nothing like a good public trial to ascertain
if a young one's any good."

But that's rather exposing your hand,"
urged Cis.

You needn't ride him out, you know,"
rejoined Gideon, sententiously. " I'm not
much of a horseman myself, though I get
along out here, where so few of 'em know
how to sit still. I do know that, and so
give my mount a chance ; but you'll see
in the next two or three days a good many

horses have their heads ridden off. More
windmills to be seen on any racecourse out
here than there are even at Lincoln."

What do you mean, Captain Gideon ? "
exclaimed Mrs. Daventry.

Well, you can see more windmills from
Lincoln racecourse than anywhere I know,
but nothing reminds me so much of a
windmill as to see our young gentlemen out
here commence finishing about a quarter
of a mile from home, 'legs and arms a
walloon', wallopm',' as the old song has it."

"Ah, well," said Mrs. Daventry, smiling,
we don't intend Red Eonald to be ridden
in that fashion, do we, Captain Calvert ? "

I can only promise to do my best ; but
please don't run away with the idea that
I am anything more than an ordinary performer,
who, like Gideon, has learnt to sit
still. I think I can win on the best horse
amongst moderate amateurs, but don't
pretend to do more."

A few intimates now dropped in, and

cards became the order of the night. Races
are always apt to evoke a temporary spirit
of gambling in the place they occur, and
the whist and ecarte ran a little higher than
customary, although not so far as to be
stigmatized as high play. Cis, who had
joined the ecarte table, and been cursed with
a run of persistent bad luck, could not but
perceive that Captain Gideon was an expert
at the game.

By Jove ! " he muttered to himself, " if
he's as good in the saddle as he is at ecarte
I shan't care to see him at my girths the
day after tomorrow."

I am afraid you have had a bad night,"
said Mrs. Daventry as Cis made his adieux.
Captain Gideon is always bad to beat
at cards, and also on a racecourse ; however,
I don't think we need be afraid of him
this time. Were Tippoo dangerous I should
have heard of it."

He's an old friend of yours, I suppose ? "
Mine ! " she replied, in a low tone, while

a look of ineffable disdain swept across her
face. "Mere, Monsieur! No; lie is one
of my husband's intimates."

Daybreak the next morning saw half
the cantonment out to see the different
horses gallop, and none of them attracted
more attention than Eed Eonald ; and the
resolute way in which he galloped the
whole of the Trimulgherry course under
Calvert's guidance delighted his backers,
who were further inspired with confidence
by the way in which his jockey rode him,
a matter of as much moment as the prowess
of the horse.

Tippoo also attracted considerable attention,
not so much on his own account as
on the well-known astuteness of his owner.
He was a neat enough looking chestnut, but
somewhat small, even for an Arab, and was
ridden in his work by a native jockey,
although Gideon was there to superintend,
and made no secret that he should ride the
horse himself in the actual race.

Another of the competitors that Was

followed about by a knot of admirers was

a handsome iron-grey Arab called Saladin.

The Soldan,* as he was sometimes called, had

won three or four good races, and although

these naturally entailed penalties, his party

thought they were no more than he could

concede, except in the case of the mighty

Australian ; and as a ' waler and on account

of a long series of victories, Eed Eonald had

even to give Saladin a good bit of weight.

This was the one horse in the race that

Daventry was afraid of ; he thought he could

beat him, but was fain to admit he had not

got quite so accurate a line to go upon as he

would have wished ; in short, the race was

not quite such a good thing for Red Ronald

as the Major liked when he was backing that

noble animal in earnest. Money was rather

scarce with him, too, just at present, and

" For Saladin the Soldan said,

"Where'er that madcap Richard led,
Allah ! he held his breath with dread,
And split his sides with laughing."

if the race for the Nizam's Plate should
come off wrong, Daventry felt that he
would have rather an awkward stile to get
over, and he finally determined to save
himself on Saladin, and with that view
asked Calvert to back the horse for him,
not liking, as he said, to do so himself.

The night before the races was always
dedicated at Secunderabad to extensive and
final pool-selling ; there had been, of course,
pool-selling before as well as betting, but
the heavier pools were generally reserved
for this particular evening. The rendezvous
for this business was the public rooms, the
hour half-past nine, the selling to commence
punctually at ten, which enabled
those interested to get their dinners comfortably,
and it also allowed ample time for
speculation and discussion before midnight.
When the first pool was put up, the place
was thronged with men in every description
of mess dress, amidst whom mingled some
few in civilian garb. There were many

who cared little about the races further than
they made excuse for a pleasant picnic, but
they knew they should meet every one at
the rooms and hear all the gossip of the
cantonment. Where could one smoke a
cheroot more profitably than in discovering
what one's neighbours were saying
about each other ?

The prominent feature of the evening,
as far as speculation went, was the support
awarded to Tippoo. His owner personally
bought him in pool after pool, and made
several heavy bye bets about him besides.
The Saladin party stood manfully to their
guns, and never missed buying their horse
when he went at a certain price, but Cis
Calvert, who was executing Daventry's
commission, interfered with them a good
deal. Eed Konald, the favourite, threatened
at first to decline in public estimation, as
when put up his owner made no sign, but
young Heckington, one of his intimate
friends, came to the front, and supported

him as boldly as Captain Gideon had
Tippoo, winding up by betting an even
thousand rupees that Eed Konald beat the
latter with Tippoo's owner.

It was towards the end of the evening
that Dan Shelton, the general's aide,
sauntered into the rooms and inquired what
was doings



A keen sportsman all round, it was
singular that he had not put in an appearance
before, but, as he explained, the mail
was in from England, and the Chief's
despatches happening to be of considerable
importance this time, getting away sooner
had been impossible.

What has been going on here ? "

You'd never guess, Dan," exclaimed
one of his chums. " Gideon has been
backing that chestnut pony of his as if
the race was a gift to him."

Hum ! that is startling intelligence
after what we saw of the little chestnut
this morning, but I'll back my news to

smother yours ! You will all see it in the
papers tomorrow morning when you get
them. We've declared war with Russia ! "

"What! War! We're at war! With
Eussia ! " exclaimed half-a-dozen voices.
You surely don't mean that, Shelton ! "

Indeed I do ; and from private letters
hear that all England is on the boil, that
drums are beating, colours flying, and the
nation mighty unanimous about the humbling
of the Muscovite."

And France goes with us, I suppose,"
said Calvert.

Yes, and the siege of Silistria goes on,
and the Guards have sailed for Malta ; in
short, the ball bids fair to open in right
lively fashion. Everybody at home is under
orders for the East, horse, foot, and artillery.' '

But I don't suppose there will be any
actual fighting. Russia would never be so
mad as to let things come to extremities
with the Western Powers. It will all end
in a mere demonstration, and a peace

I don't know about that," rejoined a
grim old colonel who had served through
the Punjab campaign, and many another
tough piece of business. " The Russians
are a mighty tenacious people, or, at all
events, their rulers are, doggedly pursuing
their own purposes, and taking little heed
of what folks say concerning them. You
see they believe implicitly it is their
destiny to rule at Constantinople, and so
does the Moslem, but they are always
wrangling about the time ; then the two
races hate each other, and both are impressed
with the idea that it is pious, praiseworthy ,
and a step towards the attainment of heaven,
or paradise, to cut the other's throat. No,
you may as well expect to separate a couple
of wild cats by expostulation now they have
once commenced. I'd back it to require
forcible intervention."

"But Russia would surely never risk a

VOL. II. Q

war with France, England, and Turkey''
said Calvert.

Why not ? " rejoined the veteran. " It
is all very well to declare war against
Eussia, but it is not so easy to know whereto
hit her. The first Napoleon found that
to his cost. No, mark me, Eussia won't
desist from her endeavours to worry the
Turk until she's had a pretty severe pummelling.
In the mean time the Moslem
seems to take a good deal of worrying, and
to be dying hard."

We haven't had a bet, Captain Calvert,"
said Gideon, as he joined the circle.
Wouldn't you like to back your mount tomorrow
? Tippoo beats him for a thousand
rupees, if that suits you."

No, thanks ; I don't bet," replied Cis.

"I beg pardon," rejoined the other, laughing.
" Delighted to find you don't fancy
Eed Eonald ; but about not betting, surely
I've heard you backing Saladin pretty freely
this evening."

That was different. That was not — "
and here Cis stopped abruptly, " for myself''
he was about to add, but suddenly he
reflected it was hardly fair to explain that
he had been merely executing a commission
for Daventry, as that gentleman had so
evidently desired to keep himself in the
background regarding it. "I had reasons
for that," he concluded vaguely.

His inconsequential remark evidently
-attracted some little attention from
the spectators, but Gideon hastened to
reply—

Pray excuse my stupidity. One is of
course not always bound to back one's
vanity instead of one's judgment. Captain
Calvert, you have made me more afraid of
Saladin considerably than I was. If you
have tranquillized my nerves somewhat
about Eed Eonald, it has only been at the
expense of raising a bugbear in Saladin. I
shall dream I can never quite get up to the
Soldan all night."

Q 2

The lookers on smiled at this badinage,
but Cis felt no little irritated,

If you think I have no belief in Ked
Eonald you are mistaken' he replied sharply,
"and to show you that I hold that opinion
you can book the bet you offered. I beat
you for a thousand rupees tomorrow."

Done' rejoined Gideon quietly, and
then lounged listlessly away.

What is Captain Gideon's regiment ? "
inquired Cis of a quiet, shrewd-looking
man, who had been an apparently amused
listener to the foregoing conversation.

The Royal Eohillas at present, I should
assume ; but I forgot you are new to India,
and will scarcely understand me. Gideon
has been out of the service some years,
and is now simply a leading turf man ;
keeps a large stud, and is a bold and
dashing bettor. The Rohillas are hill tribes,
with predatory instincts, and your regular
trite is of necessity imbued with the
same."

Thanks ; good night"' and Cis proceeded
in search of his ' tat.'

As he cantered that useful animal homewards
he pondered a good deal over the
night's proceedings. The affair of the
Mumper had made him sceptical, and again
and again did he curse the mischance that
had mixed him up with the Secunderabad
races. Still he could see no reason for the
vague feeling of uneasiness that possessed
him. That Daventry should seek to make
himself safe by backing his most dangerous
antagonist was but natural, and that an
astute racing man like Captain Gideon,
who was very sweet on his choice, should
endeavour to get every rupee he could on
his horse was quite in the order of things,
and yet, confident as he felt in Red Eonald's
ability to win. he could not shake off a
sense of impending trouble. His equivocal
relations with Mrs. Daventry might have
been deemed quite sufficient to warrant
such feeling in the eyes of most men, but

that source of tribulation never occurred
to Cis.

The fierce tropic sun had scarce begun to
relax in its intensity before all Secunderabad
was on its way to Trimulgherry race-course.
The burnt-up turf reminded one more of
the harrowed American track than the
green sward of Ascot or Newmarket : but
waggonettes, buggies, and carriages, the
classification of which surpassed all knowledge,
clustered thickly round the winning-post.
In rear of the carriages, on both
sides of the course, ran a line of marquees,
each of which flew its regimental burgomaster
the manner of the drags at Epsom,
and where iced drinks, &c. were dispensed ad
libitum. There was much talk, laughter, and
flirtation going on amongst the gathering,
here and there diversified by the equipage
of some sporting rajah from the city of
Hyderabad, with the long tails of his horses
dyed red, and his snowy turban adorned
with an aigrette of diamonds, while his dark

eyes glittered in anticipation of the fun, for
in his indolent and somewhat lordly fashion
your Asiatic is a keen sportsman, untroubled
by the scruples which oppress his western
compeer, and not one that understands why
"the gladiator pale for his pleasure" should
not draw "bitter and perilous breath."
One thing noticeable was the absence of any
attempt at a betting-ring ; such speculation
as was indulged in on the races virtually
finished at the Assembly Rooms over-night,
and there was little or no further wagering
on their result.

Mrs. Daventry was there, looking her
best and brightest in a bonnet that awoke
pangs of jealousy and curiosity in many a
feminine breast. Where did she get it ?
how could she wear it ? and similar interrogatories
were sufficient to show that their
minds were much exercised concerning it ;
indeed, Mrs. Daventry was wont to be a
subject of much tribulation to her sisters,
who were always abusing, envying, and

secretly admiring her. Not her beauty, for
that they were much given to denying, and
wondering what the men could see in her ;
but her kardiesse, whatever they might say,
always commanded their respect.

Both Captain Gideon and Cis were
lounging at Mrs. Daventry's carriage, lazily
looking on at the two or three minor races
which, like the preliminary farce at a
theatre, ushered in the jnece de resistance.
Mrs. Daventry looked restless and uneasy.
Suddenly she exclaimed —

I have just heard, Captain Gideon, that
you backed your horse for a good deal of
money last night."

"I certainly backed him a bit," replied
Gideon, quietly. " The price was tempting.
He was going begging in the pools, and I have
more belief inTippoo than other people."

But I understood you to have penned
your faith on our horse, and yet I'm told
you were backing Tippoo against him for
level money last night."

Happened to suit my book. You ladies
never understand the peculiar exigencies
involved in that expression, and that one
may be backing a horse whose chance we
have no belief in, simply as a matter of
figures:" and here Gideon swung himself off
the box and walked away, ostensibly in
pursuit of refreshment, but it struck Cis to
avoid further questioning.

u I don't understand it, and I have not
been able to see my husband. I suppose it
is time now you went down to weigh in,"
said Mrs. Daventry, hurriedly ; " but whatever
you do never take your eye off Captain
Gideon. He not only can ride, but is a
very tricky rider besides, and he don't back
horses as I'm told he backed Tippoo last
night without reason. That he should tellus
nothing about it would not surprise
me in the least. He rarely takes his
most intimate friends into his confidence,
and twenty-four hours ago professed to
know nothing about Tippoo. Adieu for

the present, and may good luck attend

you."

Mrs. Daventry's last words had put Cis
on the qui vive, and the first thing that
struck him was, that Eed Ronald seemed to
have lost his fire and go very sluggishly in
his preliminary canter. Yes, there was no
doubt about it, the horse did not move
with the freedom he had shown in his
gallops ; and Cis wondered whether there
was anything wrong with him, or whether
it was merely that the afternoon sun had
made him lazy. " He'll wake up, I daresay,
when he's set going."

Who the devil's riding Saladin ? " asked
Gideon, as they walked their horses down
to the post ; and Cis listened with some
little curiosity for the reply, as he glanced
at the pale, slim young gentleman, with
the mere suggestion of a moustache, who
bestrode that redoubtable iron grey.

"Don't know his name," answered Tom
Dufton, one of the cheeriest and most

sporting soldiers in the presidency, and who
was for the moment enjoying the dubious
honour of piloting a Persian-bred horse, the
property of one of the Rajah's patronizing
the meeting, which he had irreverently
described as all legs and tail when first
introduced to it ; " but he's a young un
staying with the collector, who has come
out on the shoot and 's mad to kill his tolerant
all that sort of thing. The collector
has got the pieces down this time, Sim, and
no mistake, and I don't think you'll find the
young un a duffer at the finish. I shan't
be there to see ; this long-legged brute will
never get two miles, but T hear he's one of
the coming lights of the Bibury Club, and
took down the number of one or two of
their cracks last year."

Well, the new importations have it
between them. I suppose it lies between
the grey and Red Ronald."

Hum ! not quite, Sim, I should think,
after the way you backed yours last night.

1 thought what was good enough for you
should be good enough for rue, and consequently
am standing Tippoo for a trifle — "

"I dare say I shall be near enough to
see how the new lights finish, and tell
you whether the hope of the Bibury or
Captain Calvert is the better jock ; but
here's the starter."

The despatching of some six or seven
horses on a two mile contest is not a very
difficult matter ; that perilous advantage of
getting off in front is not so eagerly snatched
at as in shorter races — advantage that so
often brings juvenile light-weights to grief
in the temptation it holds forth to ' ride
their heads off The field for the Nizam's
Plate is delayed for a moment or two, thanks
to the vagaries of Tom Dufton's mount,
the Persian-bred one showing a lamentable
lack of manners at the post, and then they
are away. The running is as usual made
by the chorus, as one may designate those
that swell the field, but rarely influence the

result, while the leading performers lie in a
cluster behind them. At the mile post
Tom Dufton feels the fractious Persian die
away, not gradually, but rapidly in his-hands,
while at the same moment Cis
thoroughly grasps the fact that Eed Eonald
is dead as a stone. Instead of reaching
at his bit, and shaking his head in his
usual fashion, he has come this first mile
in a dull, inert manner that his rider cannot
understand ; and it becomes necessary now
to shake him up, even to keep him on terms
with his horses. As the chorus, including
the Rajah's hope, die away, Saladin and
Tippoo forge to the front, and Cis takes
third place, but with the conviction that his
horse will be left as if standing the minute
they begin racing in earnest. He is speedily
confirmed in his opinion, for, taking the
lead, Gideon brings them along a cracker
with a view to making the weight tell on
Saladin. A cry from the carriages proclaims
that the favourite is beat, as Cis is-seen

to be riding his horse ; it is only for a
few strides, however. Red Ronald seems
hopelessly out-paced, and without the semblance
of a struggle left in him, and his
jockey, far too good a horseman to needlessly
distress a beaten animal, drops his
hands and promptly eases him. Tippoo
looks like winning easily, but the rising star
of the Bibury Club hangs like a shadow at
his quarters, and bringing Saladin w T with
a determined rush in the last half-dozen
strides, in spite of Gideon's resolute finish,
lands the grey winner by a neck.

The Collector and the Saladin party
generally were jubilant as winners usually
are. Sim Gideon wore his habitual look
of placid indifference, as if it really was
an affair in which he had no concern ; but
there were two faces that undoubtedly
expressed dissatisfaction at the result, although,
perhaps, in different ways. There
was an angry flush on Calvert's countenance,
as of a man who has to call someone

to prompt account for his conduct ;
while Daventry's for once looked no little
disconcerted at the result of the race, which
seemed the more curious to Cis, when he
reflected that he himself had backed
Saladin for Daventry to an extent that
must have rendered the victory of that
gallant grey tolerably innocuous to him.

"What is the meaning of this, Captain
Calvert ? What was the matter with Red
Ronald ? " inquired Lizzy, as he joined the
little knot round the carriage who were
condoling with its fair owner on her defeat
in the Plate.

Too much weight, I suppose," replied
Cis, carelessly ; " the old horse fairly stopped
with me when it came to racing."

Mrs. Daventry looked keenly at him for a
moment, and then cried gaily —

"Well, I am ruined, and shall have to wear
cleaned gloves and old frocks for the next
three months. I am sorry, Captain Calvert,
we ever asked you to ride such an impostor."

li You have no cause to say that, Mrs.
Daventry-. Keel Ronald is a good horse
though he didn't show himself so to-day.
He'll win many a good stake for you yet.
For the present, adieu ; I must go and put
off my riding toggery."

Couldn't have been a very bad race for
him anyhow," exclaimed Heckington. " He
backed Saladin last night to win him a
pretty good sum."

What ? Captain Calvert backed Saladin
! " said Mrs. Daventry, sharply. " Are
you sure, Mr. Heckington ? "

Quite so. Next to the Collector and
his immediate party Calvert was the most
prominent supporter of the grey."

On his way to the dressing tent Cis met
Daventry.

Bad business very. I've dropped a
pot over it myself," exclaimed that worthy.
I fancied my chance strongly. I suppose
it was the weight that beat him."

"Weight ! " ejaculated Cis, contemptuously.

" He was no more the same horse
I galloped yesterday morning than a mule's
a monkey. The horse was hocussed, and to
get at who drugged him is your next business.
He hung dead on his bridle before
he'd gone half a mile."

Impossible ! " cried Daventry.

A fact," rejoined Cis. " Fm as sure the
horse was, nay, is still, under the influence
of an opiate as if I had seen him take it.
There's a proper scoundrel in your stable,
and the sooner you make him out the
better."

Cis Calvert is right ; and it will be welt
for him that he also should arrive at knowledge
of that scoundrel.

YOL. II.

CHAPTER XL

A BITTER, QUARREL.

Dinner at the Daventrys' that evening
was by no means an hilarious business. It
had been intended that the triumph of Eed
Ronald should have been celebrated by a
select band of eight ; but Cis Calvert and
another had sent excuses at the last moment
and the remainder had very little to be
jocund about. Daventry had not only lost
a considerable sum of money, despite of
appearances, but felt convinced that ifc was
due to having yielded to the persuasions
of his late racing confederate at the last
moment, and pursued a tortuous policy
instead of running his horse fairly. Gideon s

shifty tactics had more than once in the
days of their partnership cost him dear both
in rupees and reputation, and he ought
never to have been such a fool as to listen
to him. He verily believed that Eed Eonald
would have won had he been allowed, for
although he had no intention of admitting
it, none knew better than Daventry that
Cis Calvert had reason for the opinion he
had expressed concerning his mount. The
hostess was indignant that she had been
made a cat's-paw of. She did not understand
it all as yet, but she felt sure that she
had been bidden persuade Calvert to ride
a horse which had not been meant to win,
and she was exceeding wroth at this. The
same queer feeling that made this reckless
pirate abstain from plundering him herself
prompted her to guard against any attempt
to involve him in her husband's questionable
practices. Daventry might have said what
he liked, but Lizzie would have been
thoroughly loyal to Cis, and never urged

R 2

him to ride this race for them had she not
believed it to be all perfectly honest and
straightforward. She did not know exactly
what had taken place, but was quite as
convinced that Eed Eonald had met with
foul play, as had his rider, and it was with
no little asperity that she replied to her
husband's remark before dinner — " Calvert's
very late ; but I suppose we must give him
a few minutes more law," with —

I've a note from Captain Calvert
to say he's not well enough to come ;
and I don't wonder at it. Such a ride ashe
had to-day might well make any man
sick."

Daventry did not venture upon a reply ;
he could cow her when they were alone, butin
public she sometimes defied him. He
knew that she recked little what she said
when her blood was up, and that to attempt
to bandy words with her was dangerous —
quite capable of washing the family linen in
public on such occasions ; and there never

was a man more alive to the foolishness of
that than Daventry — and rightly too, as
some of it was of a hue more sombre than
society quite tolerates.

As for Sim Gideon, whose innate love of
fraudulent practices had brought about the
extremely unpleasant result of the Nizam's
Plate, he was as usual unmoved at the
collapse of his schemes. This is invariably
an attribute of great swindlers : they are as
indefatigable in spinning their webs and as
undismayed at the breaking of their meshes
as a spider. A thorough 'leg' of this
description, who starts with the status of a
gentleman, maintains a precarious position
in social circles for a marvellously long
period at times, and when at last he is
taken so red-handed that all club-land casts
him out, accepts his ostracism with philosophical
stoicism.

Mrs. Daventry had long retired to her
room, and the other guests, after a little
stiff whist, had at length departed, leaving

Daventry and his guest still smoking in the
verandah.

Well, you've made a precious mess of
it," observed the host, grimly. " I wish to
heaven you and Tippoo had never come near
Secunderabad ; left alone, I fancy I should
have won right enough with Eed Eonald,
and landed a good stake ; now I'm stone
broke."

"Pooh, you backed Saladin, or rather
Calvert did for you, to about cover you.
Can't see you're much hurt, anyway,'
rejoined Gideon in his habitual languid
drawl.

I had to bet it nearly all away again at
the last moment. The Collector challenged
me to back my own horse against his, and
knowing how Eed Eonald would run I aren't
refuse. If he'd known our little game he
couldn't have had me more neatly."

Sim Gideon gave a low whistle. That
any possible regard for his reputation should
provoke a man into injudicious betting was

simply past his comprehension ; but then, it
was some years since he had had a reputation
worth speaking of.

"Well," he replied at length,, "if you
were weak enough to be chaffed into backing
a horse you had given me permission to
settle, you can't be surprised that you've
had a bad race. I can only tell you again
what I told you before, that Tippoo did not
run up to his trial ; if he had he would have
beaten Saladin far enough. There was five
times the money to be made over him that
there was over Ked Konald, and the latter
was the only horse I was afraid of. You
couldn't scratch him, and you aren't hint
to Calvert that he wasn't wanted. There
was only the one way to put him out of it
that opiate in his water. It's unlucky,
devilish unlucky, as I fancy you could have
won with the ' waler ' ; but it's more unlucky
for Calvert than any one.

Unlucky for Calvert ! What do you
mean ? " exclaimed Daventry hurriedly, and

as he spoke a white arm gleamed for a
second in the moonlight, as a window above
their heads, and equally under the penthouse
roof of the verandah, was pushed a
little more open.

Why, you see he backed Saladin a good
bit last night, and who has an idea it was
for you ? He rides against him to-day, and
never attempts to take his horse up to him
at the finish ; the public generally won't
understand it was because he couldn't. The
public are a very muddle-headed lot, and
will probably come to the conclusion that
Calvert, having backed Saladin, pulled Ked
Eonald. I fancy there's a queer racing story
against him in England. Shouldn't wonder
if you're not a good deal condoled with."

There is, though I don't know the exact
particulars ; but his crucifixion won't do meany
good. I don't see how I'm to get back
my money ; and you ? "

Don't mean to be long out of mine. It
won't be long before Tippoo and I tackle the

Collector again, and mark me, Saladin goes
down next time. The trial was right, and
he hasn't a lease of his new jockey, that was
a few points in his favour this time. But
it's getting deuced late, so good night. I've
to make an early start of it tomorrow, so if
you are not up, good-bye," and Gideon
sought his chamber.

Very little of the foregoing conversation
had escaped Lizzie's ears. She had gone to
the open casement for a little fresh air in the
first instance ; but no sooner did she catch
the subject of their talk, than she composed
herself deliberately to listen. In her excitement
to hear wiry it should be " more
unlucky for Calvert than any one' she could
not resist pushing the casement a trifle
further open, lest Gideon's reply should
escape her, and recognized at once the correctness
of his deductions. She ground her
little white teeth as she got into bed, and
perhaps never felt more bitter towards her
husband than she did this night. She

would have laughed to scorn the idea that
she was in love with Cis Calvert, but would
have been much puzzled to explain why she
so rigidly exempted him from that irregular
taxation she never scrupled to levy on her
other admirers, and Lizzie had refused to
accept any but the most trifling mementoes
from his hands. She was very angry to
think that he had been robbed, not so much
of his money, — though she knew he had lost
that too, ■ — but of his reputation, and that it
was she who had lured him to his undoing.
But for her he would have persisted in his
refusal to ride Eed Konald, and been perfectly
clear of the whole business, and now,
great heavens ! he would hold her cause of it
all, and perhaps believe in her complicity
with Gideon and her husband. If it was
only mere caprice on her part to bring
this man to her feet Lizzie would have
exulted in an occurrence that promised
indirectly to assist her object. A man who
had fled from a racing scandal at home

could hardly present himself as rehabilitated
by another incurred in India. It would
tend to still further part him from that
woman in England of whom Lizzie felt so
fiercely jealous. But a woman who loved
in earnest could hardly endure that the
subject of her passion should receive harm
at her hands ; and Lizzie was on the verge
of discovering*; that, for the first time since
her ill-starred marriage, she had fallen genuinely
in love. She had run away from
school with her husband only to be speedily
disenchanted. The moon-stricken Juliet of
this world, with their milk-and-water fantasies,
little dream of the fierce passions of
the Cleopatra ; and it is only in their
noon-tide at times that even they make
such discovery, and then — well, we can but
wish them well through with it.

"I am afraid your schemes went a little
awry yesterday," observed Mrs. Daventry to
her husband the next morning at breakfast.

The remark was made in soft, indifferent

tones, apparently ; but the Major's trained
ear detected the covert sarcasm immediately.

You're about right ; they did. Money
is likely to be scarcer than ever for some
little time, so the less you come to me for it
the better."

It had no business to be scarce," she
replied haughtily, and in a manner that
involuntarily attracted his attention. "If
you had not been led away by Captain
Gideon's over-cleverness, but simply trusted
to a good horse, with a good man on him to
win your money, you would have done well
enough. I ventured once to remark when
you were partners, that Captain Gideon's
habit of invariably going round two sides
of the triangle to get where he wanted
would infallibly beat him in the end."

If irritated he was somewhat struck by
the shrewdness of the illustration.

You happen to be right in the present
instance," he rejoined, sharply; "but great
coups are not brought off without a little

financing. Tippoo didn't come off; but it
was the best thing I have been in for years,
and it was very near landed."

Quite so ; only Tippoo, having metaphorically
to go round two sides of the
triangle to Saladin's one, was of course
defeated."

That will do ! " shouted the Major.
Unnecessary discussion of disagreeable
subjects is the most ridiculous waste of time
conceivable. I presume you have said
your perfectly uncalled-for say."

I have only to add that I request you
will not induce me to lead my friends into
such dubious conspiracies in future. Captain
Calvert may be seriously compromised
by — by Captain Gideon's roguery."

Turned moralist by all that's incomprehensible,"
exclaimed Daventry in blank
astonishment. " Let's look at you, madam,
in your new character. I suppose you'll be
troubled with a mission next, with a big
M. Listen to me ; I stand no fooleries of

that nature. You may dance, ride, and flirt
to the top of your bent ; but you'll do as I
tell you, and not trouble me with moralities."

I will take no more part in entrapping
men to risk their characters in such arrant
villanies as this last you and Captain Gideon
plotted," she retorted proudly.

Daventry walked across to her and looked
down keenly into her face. She met his
gaze without flinching for a moment, and
then her glance faltered, and her eyes
dropped.

By the gates of Sonata she's in love
with him ! " ' exclaimed the Major with a
burst of derisive laughter.

And if I were ! " she returned passionately,
as she sprang to her feet. " Have I
received such kindness and loving consideration
from you these past years as
should make such a thing impossible. Have
I not been openly flung at the head of any
man who had either money or interest to
serve your ends. Have I not even been

bidden take my milliners' bills for payment
to those who should have dreaded a
further settlement with you for presuming
to interfere had you been a man instead
of the despicable black-leg you are. Has
there been any tie between us save fear of
you, and the rending of the last few rags of
respectability that covered me on the one
side, and the sordid feeling that I was of
use to you on the other. Don't suppose
that I acknowledge any authority to control
me in the future save that of mutual convenience.
Separate yourself from me, and
see what comes of it. You owe me more than
I owe you. More than one of your many
scrapes you would never have tided over
without my help. Try me too hard, and
you will see what it is to have me against
you."

She ceased, and overcome with her excitement,
threw herself back into a lounging-chair
that was handy.

She's broken loose, by Jove ! " thought

the Major. " I'm perfectly right ; it's love
for this beggar Calvert lias put the devil
in her. There wasn't a better broke woman
in the country, and the idea of her ever
caring about a fellow in earnest, with all
her experience, seemed preposterous ; but,
by the Lord ! when they fall in love they're
all out of hand, and there's no counting
what pranks they'll play.

I'll not argue our mutual obligations,"
he rejoined cynically, " it's hardly worth
while. If you mean running away with
Calvert, don't think I am going to interfere.
It will be unpleasant for three people, but
before the year's out I fancy Calvert is
the one who will be most alive to the
mistake. You also may find those ' rags
of respectability ' garments not to be found
in all shop-windows. No, we'll not discuss
it further," he interposed sharply, as Lizzie
seemed about to rise again ; " best not. Go
or stay, but in the latter case you'll do as
I tell you. Good-bye for the present."

For a few minutes after Daventry's
departure Lizzie sat motionless, but her
little hands gripped the arm of the chair
as if they would crush it, her eyes glittered
with anger and excitement, her breath came
short and thick. She trembled with passion,
and it was, perhaps, as well no weapon had
been to her hand during that last speech of
her husband's. Women have stretched men
lifeless at their feet for such hideous gibing
ere now, and Lizzie was not of a temper
to reck consequences under bitter provocation.
At length she rose, and stepping out
into the verandah, began to pace slowly up
and down and think. There had been
many a hot quarrel between her and Hugh
Daventry during their ten years of wedded
life, but he'd never ventured to loose his
mocking tongue so coarsely as to-day.
Previously she had invariably succumbed
to his sneers, but was conscious this
time of having held her own. Still the
more she thought of it the more she felt

VOL. II. s

that the quarrel between them was a
Tolerance. She might not go off with Cis
Calvert, but she could no longer live with
Hugh Daventry. She had no woman friend
with whom she could take refuge in this
emergency, for, as she well knew, Lizzie
Daventry, under her husband's protection,
and backed by her own dauntless assurance,
had hard work to hold her own ; but
deprived of those, to aid her was simply
to swamp the woman rash enough to constitute
herself her champion. Reckless
freebooter as she was, and merciless as she
had been at times in her exactions from
her victims, Lizzie had a certain queer vein
of chivalry in her.

No ! " she muttered, with a little sharp
laugh very different from her usual ringing
peal, " those who have been good to me,
poor dears, have as much as they can do
to take care of themselves. I'll not transfer
my troubles to crafts frail as my own, and
so drown my friends ; " and then once more

Lizzie marched slowly up and down, thinking
of what she had best do.

Wrong; and indefensible it might be, but
the idea of eloping with Cis Calvert held
a very prominent part in her deliberations.
She was rapidly awaking to the fact of
how very dear this man was to her, and
the more it dawned upon her, so in similar
ratio increased the misgiving of whether
he had any love for her. What should she
do ? That she would leave Hugh Daventry
before the week was out she was determined
but how ? Ah ! that was not quite so
easy to come to a conclusion about.

At all events," thought Lizzie, " I must
see Cis again. I am bound both to wish
him good-bye and to justify myself in his
eyes. He shall at all events know from
my own lips that I was innocent of the
treachery practised on him in the matter
of Eed Eonald, though I can't think Cis
would believe me guilty of having any
knowledge of such a thing when I begged

S 2

him to ride for us. Robbers we are, both
of us ; but even Hugh never would have
so out-Barabbassed Barabbas if it had not
been for that detestable Captain Gideon."

But the next day and the day after
passed, to Mrs. Daventry's amazement,
without Cis putting in an appearance, nor
did they bring a line from him explanatory
of such an unusual circumstance. With
her husband she hardly exchanged a word,
and even he was as yet unaware that
Gideon's prediction had been fulfilled — that
already a murmur was running through the
cantonment that Eed Eon aid had been
unfairly ridden, and that Captain Calvert
had won a nice stake over Saladin's victory
; such head, indeed, had the scandal
arrived at that on the third day the
colonel of the Royal Dunbarss had sent
for Calvert to his bungalow and acquainted
him with the story. That Cis should
repudiate it in most unmeasured terms was
but natural ; but he avowed frankly that in

his own opinion the horse had been, in
racing parlance, ( got at

Now the Royal Dunbarss had the mischance
to be commanded at that time, as
has happened to divers other distinguished
regiments in turn, by a vacillating, irritable
old woman, keenly jealous of his own
power, and wonderfully-afraid of those in
authority over him ; not the man this to
stand up for one of his officers in trouble,
but, on the contrary, certain to abandon him
for fear of offending the authorities. In
Cis's indignant denial — and that it was made
with some warmth be sure — he thought he
discerned want of respect for himself.

"Want of temper, Captain Calvert," he
spluttered, "will not rebut a rumour of
this sort. It will be more to the point
if you write me a letter to denounce Major
Daventry, so that I can forward it to the
General."

I don't denounce Major Daventry, sir.
I say in my opinion the horse was drugged ;

I don't for one moment assert with his
owner's knowledge."

"Ah, well, if you will mix yourself up
with people like that, a man is judged a
good deal by the society he keeps."

That is somewhat hard on him, Colonel
Milkinson, when he belongs to the Royal
Dunbarss," retorted Cis, now thoroughly
angry.

What do you mean, sir ? " stammered
the Colonel, dimly conscious of hidden
sarcasm in this rejoinder. "By heavens, I
am not the man to tolerate disrespect. You
have not got on w T with us since you joined.
You're bringing a scandal on us now ; in
short, sir," continued Milkinson, churning
himself gradually into a state of much
wrath, " the regiment does not like you."

And that is by no means the worst of
it," replied Cis, w T ho was getting cooler in
proportion to the other's rising choler.

Not the worst of it ! By the Lord, sir,,
what can be — "

"I don't like the regiment' interrupted
Cis, blandly.

For a few seconds Colonel Milkinson
was literally dumb foundered. That anyone
should presume to consider service
in his regiment anything short of Paradise
was inconceivable ; then he spluttered
out in a voice that trembled with
passion —

Under those circumstances, sir, the
sooner you leave it the better."

Quite so ; I am glad to find we are of
one mind on that point. I will make my
arrangements with all possible despatch, and
presume, Colonel Milkinson, I may reckon
on you to facilitate them."

They cannot be too quickly made,
Captain Calvert, for both the credit and
comfort of the Royal Dunbarss."

Cis flushed angrily, for he felt that old
Milkinson had ' scored one ' to wind up
with, and a fierce retort rushed to his lips
which for once he had the prudence to

swallow. I shall send in my papers tomorrow.
Good-morning, sir.

When Cis reached his own bungalow and
began to reflect, he speedily came to the
conclusion that he had veritably ' done it '
this time. He had made up his mind to
abandon his profession, and distinctly told
Milkinson so. To withdraw from that
position would be excessively humiliating,
and it w T as possible the Colonel might demur
very much to such retraction even if he
himself wished it, which he did not. No,
better quit the service at once ; he could not
go from regiment to regiment, leaving always
an ugly story behind him. And then he
thought grimly what would they think of
him at Theirs. What would York and his
old comrades of the Lancers say when the
news came home that he had had to leave
the Royal D unbars on account of another
racing scandal ? and as he thought of Annie
Aysgarth listening tearfully to the story,
and perhaps even crediting it, his lip

twitched a little. The minute Milkinson
had pointed out the rumour afloat concerning
him he recognised at once how
terribly against him appearances ■ were.
People cannot believe in a man being
always wrongfully accused. A man may be
charged with roguery wrongfully, and his
friends believe that it is so, but when a few
months later he is once more cited for the
same offence their belief in him is bound
to be considerably shaken. Brought up
twice in six months for stealing watches,
and the odds are, the man is a professional
pickpocket, and not the victim of untoward
circumstances. Cis saw all this clearly, and
the more he thought of it the more convinced
he was that the service had done
w T with him. A man with two such stories
tacked to his name could not continue in a
profession in which they would meet him at
every step. What he was to turn his hand
to next he didn't know, but at all events
he should get clear of a country he detested,

and would have the proceeds of his commission
at his disposal while he looked
round.

He turned to the table for a match with
which to light a fresh cheroot, and suddenly
became aware of an English letter lying
there — sion that another mail was in. Those
were stirring times, and the mails eagerly
looked for. A glance showed him it was
from Harry Harperley. He tore it open ;
it was dated Woolwich, April, 1854, and
ran as follows : —

Dear Cis,

We are just off for the East,
have been swinging our horses all day, and
sail tomorrow. We were rather in a funk
we should be left behind, as we saw so
many other regiments go before we got a
hint we should be wanted. The excitement
is intense, though there is any amount of
difference of opinion about how things will
turn out. The general opinion I think is,
there will be no fighting, and that the
Russians will cave when they find we are

in earnest. At all events, nearly all the
infantry and artillery have been pushed onto
Varna, a place on the Black Sea, of which
no doubt you never heard. We are all
getting so learned about Turkey, and do
nothing but read about her, and study
maps of her, and dream of seeing Seraglio
Point, the Golden Horn, the Sweet Waters,
and smoking our ckibouqes in the big
bazaar at Tambour. The governor has
behaved like a brick — paid all my ticks,
and gave me carte blanche for an outfit,
but that is not of course a very big affair.
He came up to town to see the last of
me, and will run down here tomorrow to
wish us all God speed. It's worth being
a soldier now, I tell you ; as Strangford says,
the public is only just beginning to appreciate
us. All the bands are perpetually
playing ' Cheer, boys, Cheer I presume
with a view to exhort the nation not to
be quite heart-broken at our departure.
Hang it all, Cis, how I wish you were
with us ; and if not exactly with us, you
can be with the army if you like. All
sorts of fellows are volunteering, and I

heard the Chief say last night, — he'd just
come back from having a last few words at
the Horse Guards, — e It don't look as if the
Government thought it would all end in
smoke ; the military bigwigs there are
besieged by volunteers, and, sign of the
way the wind blows, I hear, accept the
services of all who are worth their salt.
Any man who has served for a few years
is sure of employment. They are going
to raise all sorts of Turkish auxiliary corps.'
Good-bye, and God bless you. Annie told
me to give you her love when I wrote,
but she would send no further message,
although I rather pressed her.
Yours ever,

Harry Harperley."

Pes. — Wild rumours that the allies really
mean striking a blow, which I presume in
our less stilted vernacular means have a
cut at the Ruskin. Viva! May we arrive
in time."

Cis read Harry's letter through twice, and
then throwing it down sat smoking and

musing for a good half-hour ; at the end of
that time he rose and muttered, " That's
what I'll do. My papers go in tomorrow,
and I'll be off to Bombay in three days. The
General's sure to give me leave under the
circumstances, and from Bombay I'll make
my way straight to Constantinople. What
to do next I shall find out there. Yes,
when a man is like me, ' sans six sous
sans souci,' it is about time, like the black
Mousquetaire of the legends, to remember
there is active service as a distraction. I
know nothing about it, but if it is a fight,.
I should think the chances are there'll be
plenty of it. Anyway that's settled."

Mrs. Daventry never entered into Cis's
calculations, and yet, as a man of the world,
he ought to have known she was not exactly
to be left out of them.

CHAPTER XII.

"GOD BLESS AND GUARD YOCJ, DEAREST."

Calvert kept his intended departure
from the Royal Dunbarss as quiet as he had
kept his premeditated flight from York some
eighteen months previously. He had very
few debts in the cantonment, and had not
lost anything over the race to signify, so
that his arrangements were soon made. He
sent his papers to the Colonel, with an
application for leave home pending their
acceptance, the ratification of which leave he
pledged himself to await at Bombay, while
the paymaster of the regiment promised to
look after the sale of his effects and all
minor money matters. Then he wrote to
Daventry, as Chief of the Commissariat,

requesting him to lay a dak for him to
Bombay, as he was going up there on
leave, but mentioned no word of his abrupt
retirement from the Royal Dunbarss ; and
then he thought that he must go and say
good-bye to Mrs. Daventry. He intended
to neither mention his selling: out nor the
scandal about Eed Ronald, which had in
some measure led to it ; in some measure
only, because, had he liked either the corps
or the country, the charge against him was
of no such nature as to have compelled him
to retire. It was easy to prove that he had
backed Saladin for Daventry, and though
Eed Eonald had certainly run very badly
in his hands, still jockeys cannot be held
accountable always for the vagaries of the
animals they bestride.

But there were too many people necessarily
cognizant of Calvert's intentions for
them to remain a secret many hours, and
it was not long before the news of his
retirement from the regiment reached Mrs.

Daventry. Young Heckington of the Royal
Dunbarss, who was a pretty constant frequenter
of the house, brought her the
intelligence, and she further drew from him
that Cis Calvert's riding of Eed Konald had
been severely commented on. He did not
venture to insinuate that it had been more
than found fault with, but Lizzie understood
him thoroughly.

Fools ! " she said, indignantly ; " they
don't understand a race when they see it.
Nothing could be more palpable than that
there was something wrong with the horse.
He went very different from the way he
galloped the morning before."

Pity he backed Saladin over-night,"
said Heckington.

And if he did it was for my husband,"
Lizzie was about to burst forth; but suddenly
she reflected that was not altogether a satisfactory
rebutting of that unfortunate fact,
insomuch as it merely proved Eed Eonald's
owner backed the winner, and might have

given corresponding instructions to this
jockey.

I have yet to learn, Mr. Heckington,"
she replied coldly, "that because a gentleman
fancies the chance of another horse
more than his own, and in consequence
backs it, he cannot be depended on to do
his own mount justice."

The way she said this was superb. She
might have spent her days in strict and
high-principled circles, instead of having
been for ten years the wife of an unscrupulous
gambler. As for young Heckington, he
was taken completely aback, although he
certainly might have known better. He
knew Cis Calvert was a great favourite of
Mrs. Daventry's, and he should have known
that to say anything to a man's detriment
before a woman whose particular friend he
is lays you open to assault always.

At this juncture Captain Calvert was
announced, and Heckington thought it a
favourable opportunity to make his adieux.

VOL. II. T

Lizzie's pulse quickened a little as she
came forward to welcome Cis, and it well
might. She knew that he had come to say
good-bye, and she had just awoke to what
that meant to her. The vital question as
far as she w T as concerned was, did it mean
anything to him ? This interview must
show ; and if he did care for her, what
then? To a woman stung to madness by
her husband's insults that was a rather
critical thing to determine, and one in
which passion was like to supersede prudence
as far as she was concerned. As
for Cis, although not altogether blind to
Mrs. Daventry's capricious preference, he
was far from having any idea of the stormy
passion that lady had conceived for him.
There were so many forces at work of which
he knew nothing, foremost of which was her
husband's brutality, and, secondly, pique at
his own indifference to her fascinations.
That is hardly the correct term either, for
Cis showed himself very sensible of her

attractions, although he was resolute not to
succumb to them. It had seemed to Lizzie
almost due to herself to subjugate this man
who hesitated to hold her chains. What
she had begun as a matter of sport had
resolved itself into earnest before she was
aware of it ; and she who had queened it so
many years had suddenly been conquered
in her turn. Vcb victim ! Cis, did he but
know it, is avenging some numbers of his
fellows who have experienced dour times at
the hands of Circe.

And so, Cis, you are going to leave us,"
said Mrs. Daventry, as their hands met. " I
told you you would some little time back,
but I thought you would wait till the Royal
Dunbarss went home, at all events. I hear
your papers are in ; is it true ? "

Quite true ; they went in the day before
yesterday."

Sit down here — this low chair, and tell
me all about it," said Lizzie, as she seated
herself on the couch.

T 2

There's not much to tell. You know I
am very weary of this country, and that,
except yourself, I care for nobody in it. I
found a letter the other night from a friend
in the Lancers, telling me they were ordered
to the East, that all the army was going
there, and urging me if I couldn't get away
• from here to sell out and volunteer. Any
man with a few years' experience of the
service is pretty certain of employment."

And that is your sole reason for this
sudden step ? "

He nodded assent.

Loyal as ever," she murmured. " Cis
Calvert, don't tell lies to me," she suddenly
exclaimed ; " I know better. I have heard
the whole story, and how the fools dare to
throw mud at you for your riding of Eed
Eonald. I wish, Cis, I had bitten my tongue
out before I had ever persuaded you to ride
him ; but with all my experience of Major
Daventry," she continued in mocking tones,
"I never dreamt that he was capable of such

deliberate villainy. I told you there was
something wrong just before you went away
to dress. I know all about it now : they
arranged the race for Tippoo, and as for
Red Ronald, he was stopped in the stable."

"I knew that," rejoined Calvert; "but
of course," he continued, in very marked,
deliberate tones, " without Major Daventry's
knowledge."

Lizzie understood him. She saw that,
though he knew pretty well what had
happened, he intended no admission to her
that he believed her husband cognizant
of it.

"And do you mean to tell me this had
nothing to do with your sudden resolve ? "
she asked, incredulously.

Next to nothing. My losing my temper
with old Milkinson had infinitely more.
Indeed, except in indirect fashion, I may
say the race had little to say to it. I
must tell you about my interview with
Milkinson; it was rather rich;" and then

Cis proceeded to recount his little but lively
spar with the Colonel, which he did with
inconceivable gusto, not even omitting
Milkinson's parting shot.

Mrs. Daventry was much amused, and
laughed no little at the narration.

You must have nearly given Colonel
Milkinson a fit, I am sure ; and one thing,
Cis, I must say, surprises me — that he didn't
put you in arrest. He is so very fond of
exercising his prerogative in that direction,
and you seem to have given no little
provocation."

Not liking your regiment is punishable
by no military statute," remarked Calvert,
sententiously.

You treat it lightly," replied Lizzie,
suddenly recalling to mind that their conversation
was not couched in the serious vein
to which she wished to restrict it, " and it is
like you to do so ; but I know very well,
Cis, that it is this race that is the cause of
your quitting the service, and that I, miserable

that I am, induced you to ride. Yes,
I who would have cut my right hand off
sooner than bring you to grief."

Now, pray don't distress yourself upon
that point," rejoined Calvert, who was not
altogether unprepared for a slight scene in
saying good-bye to Mrs. Daventry. "You
haven't brought me to grief in the least, and
if you had, upon my soul, I think I should
thank you. I ought to have sold out of the
Lancers, and then I should have got an
appointment, and been in Bulgaria by this
time. I have done no £good out here, and
with the exception of your friendship shall
have not one ray of light to look back upon
in my Indian experiences."

Friendship, Cis ! and is that all you
have to give me % " murmured Lizzie in low,
tremulous tones.

All I have to give any woman now," he
replied quietly. " I thought you understood
long ago that I was a broken man when I
came here. If I'd been a Frenchman it

would have been the Zouaves and Algiers,
as an Englishman it was the Koyal D unbars
and India."

"As if I cared one straw about that ! "

to

she replied passionately — " I who have belonged
to les ens ants per dues, as they call the
marked companies of the Zouaves, all my
life."

"And as such we have met, recognized
each other, and shall be sworn comrades
always. My love is given, as you know,
hopelessly. I never hope to claim the
woman I once thought to marry now."

"You told me," hissed Lizzie between
her teeth, "that there was no woman concerned
in the scrape that brought you to
India."

Nor was there ; but the scrape separated
me from the girl I was engaged to. I suppose
you'll admit that was a very possible
circumstance,"

And how dare you . make love to me
then ? " exclaimed Mrs. Daventry, utterly

oblivious of the queer morality formulated
in ber question.

That be should dare to make love to ber
as a married woman seemed of no account ;
but that beings infatuated about a girl in
England, be should presume to make love to
ber, Lizzie apparently considered as a crime
of the deepest dye.

"I don't think I ever did exactly," replied
Cis, slowly. " You know you're so awfully
nice, fellows can't help themselves, and doit
almost without being aware of it."

"And you class yourself with the rest !"
she replied, contemptuously. "And you
think I treated you as I treat them ? You
lie — you know better."

I don't think you are quite fair," he
replied. " You have treated me with great
kindness I'll admit ; but, Lizzie, I have
never been your lover — an admirer if you
will, a bon camarade amongst the free lances,
I acknowledge, bound to stand by you in
your need even ; but your lover — no."

"You admit you are bound to stand by
me in my need," she exclaimed, rising and
standing opposite him with her hands lightly
clasped in front of her, " and I never was
in greater need than now. My husband's
insults have become more than even such a
woman as I can bear. Cis Calvert, I love
you very dearly ; save me, save me from
myself, take me away with you. I will
work, beg, nay lie, steal for you if needs be.
You are going to the war, to rough it ; don't
think that would have any terrors for me,
or that you would find me a clog on your
movements. I can both ride and use a
pistol if needs be ; but oh, Cis, don't leave
me behind."

"My dear Lizzie, this is madness. I
have told you I have no love to give you in
return for your devotion. I cannot accept
all when I have nothing to give in return."

You say you will never be able to marry
that other woman. Oh, Cis, why cannot
you take one who loves you so truly ? I

ask so little. I am content to be your
mistress' she exclaimed, as the blood rushed
to her temples, and she fell at his feet.
But oh ! " she continued, as her voice sank
to a whisper, " I am so weary of all this
mock love-making."

Her hands were clasped together on his
knee, and the dark eyes flashed up in his
face from beneath the wet lashes with a
passionate eagerness that might have well
turned any man's head. Cis was no Joseph,
and though he had no intention of running
away with Mrs. Daventry when he called to
bid her good-bye, it was just possible she
might have run away with him but for one
thing — she stung Cis by alluding to Miss
Aysgarth as 'that other woman.' In total
ignorance of Annie's name, it is difficult to
say what else she could have called her ; but
that slight circumstance steeled Calvert's
heart.

Impossible, my dear Lizzie," he said
gently, as he raised her to her feet. " If

I had love to give you it might be different.
Point out any way in which I can be of
use to you, and it shall go hard but what
I manage it for you."

Fool that I am," she exclaimed, as she
dashed the tears from her eyes. " Kiss me,
Cis, for once, as a sign that my madness
of the last ten minutes is forgotten. There,"
she continued, as he touched her cheek
lightly with his lips ; " now we are friends
once more. Sit down and don't speak tome
for a little ; " and Lizzie began to pace
the room with rapid steps.

Calvert sat silently waiting for the concluding
act of the drama. What would be
her next proposition ? In good truth he
could not help wishing his final valedictions
said, and himself on his route to Bombay. It
was impossible to guess what this exasperated
woman might propose doing. The
Daventrys kept up appearances very fairly
before the public, but Cis had been too
intimate not to have had occasional glimpses

behind the scenes, and was quite aware that
there was considerable friction in the workings
of the domestic machinery. He had
little doubt that an irreconcilable quarrel
had taken place between the pair, and that
Lizzie was capable of proceeding to extremities
she had just afforded pretty positive
proof.

Suddenly she stopped opposite him, and
said fiercely, "My mind is made up. I
have been his slave for years, but 111 be so no
longer ; HI bear his ill-treatment no more.
No, Cis," she cried hastily, in answer to
a low ejaculation on his part, " he does not
beat me. A man who understands it can
punish a woman more with his tongue than
if he took a dog whip to her. You say you
will stand to me ? " and she looked straight
into his face.

Most certainly."

Then I want you to lend me two hundred
pounds. Can you do it ? "

I should fancy so, with very little

trouble. I have all my commission money
to fall back upon, and I've no doubt between
our paymaster and a native sheriff I could
let you have it in the course of a few
hours."

Thanks, so very much. What do I want
it for ? You're dying to know, but don't
like to ask. Ah, w T ell, to pay my milliner's
bill, say. My husband would tell you, no
doubt," she continued in sneering tones,
that the use of your purse will always
console a woman for the loss of your love."

Suddenly Lizzie's voice faltered, and without
further speech she burst into a fit of
hysterical weeping.

For some few minutes Cis tried in vain
to soothe her. She repelled him angrily ;
while her convulsive sobbing shook her
violently. Gradually the storm wore itself
out, and at last she motioned Calvert to
come near the couch upon which she had
thrown herself.

"Don't despise me utterly, Cis, because

in my misery I say hard things. I tell you
no lie when I say I have never loved man
as I have loved you. It is all over, and we
must part. Another minute, and you shall
lay your lips to mine in a final farewell.
But I cannot stay here. You must find me
the means for escape ; it will be easy to find
the opportunity if I only have money. We
may never meet again, and yet I have a
presentiment we shall, and before very long.
Good-bye ; God bless and guard you, dearest. "
And as Cis bent over her Lizzie threw her
arms round his neck, pressed one passionate
kiss on his lips, then rapidly releasing him,
motioned that he should leave her.

That evening Lizzie received a small bag
of rupees, and a draft on a well-known
banking firm in Bombay, and the morrow's
morn saw Cis Calvert on his way to Constantinople.


END OF VOL. II.

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



Sm2h

v.3

VOL. III.

in 2010 with funding from

University qf Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hardlinesnovel03smar

a Ibbcl.

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

BIJEEZIE LANGTON," ' ; SOCIAL SINNERS," " THE GREAT TONTINE,
AT FAULT," ETC. ETC.

Of all the barbarous middle ages, that
Which is most barbarous is the middle age
Of man ; it is — I really scarce know what ;
But when we hover between fool and sage,
And don't know justly what we would be at—
A period something like a printed page,
Black letter upon foolscap, while our hair
Grows grizzled, and we are not what we were."

1 The greatest miracle of love is the reformation of a coquette.

IN THREE Volumes-vol. III.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL,

Limited.

1883.

[All Rights reserved']

CONTEXTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

BOOT AND SADDLE . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

A DIPLOMATIC QUESTION . . . 24

CHAPTER III.
"the swagger of war" . . . 45

CHAPTER IV.

OLD COMRADES

CHAPTER VI.
A LETTER FROM THE CRIMEA

65

CHAPTER V.

THE "REAL THING" AT LAST . . . 94

126

CHAPTEE VII.

PAGE

THE TAKING OF THE QUARRIES . . . 156

CHAPTEE VIII.

A FAREWELL SHOT . . . . 174

CHAPTER IX.

SISTER ELIZABETH . . . . 192

CHAPTEE X.
CONVALESCENT . . . . • •• 215

CHAPTER XL
sister Elizabeth's farewell . . . 233

CHAPTER XII.
CONCLUSION . . . . .-52

CHAPTER I.

Some months have elapsed since Major
Crymes so differed at Harrogate with the
man from Manchester on the probabilities of
war. There is no question about it now
England is at war. True, not a shot has
been fired ; but the bray of martial music
is incessant in her seaport towns as her
soldiers hurry to the ships awaiting them ;
the hammer clangs ceaselessly day and night
in her dockyards and arsenals; patriotic songs
ring from every ale-house parlour, and her
people are filled with the lust of carnage.

VOL. III. B

Amazing; this to the Manchester school,
who deemed the millennium commenced, and
the art of throat-cut ting; falling; into desuetude
; destined later to discover that production
of cotton is not the chief end of life,
nor calico the main luxury of nations.

All the vast mercantile marine of the
Western Powers is laid under embargo, and
other industries stand aside while the more
important exportation of iron, humanity,
and saltpetre is in hand. AY here it is to go
and what is to be done with it has not yet
been determined in any way ; the plan of
campaign not so much an object as to
impress upon the Czar that England will
not have it, that France will not have it,
and that the sooner he and his Cossacks
recross the Danube the better. Could the
Emperor Nicholas have been made to understand
this in the first instance, the Crimean
war might never have been ; but the Czar
had as much belief in the power of the
Manchester school as Mr. Fulsby. Later

it was not likely that the Emperor of Eussia
could go back, and fighting became inevitable.

Radicals make wars and revolutions from
failing to understand that the man who will
not fight runs infinite danger of getting
kicked, and that anarchy is not kept in
check by verbiage.

If there was a man enthusiastic about the
turn things had taken, it was Mr. Harrington.
Like most Anglo-Indian officials, he
had much antipathy to Russia, and infinite
jealousy of the steady manner in which she
was extending her sway through Central
Asia. Like most men who have held high
office in India, he was well up in her past
history, and knew that whenever a born
leader of men appeared among them, the
hordes from Turkestan gravitated to the
banks of the Edmund, and from thence
swept down like hawks on the rich plains of
Hindostan, the looting and ravaging of
which was ever a tempting bait with which
such a captain as Nadir Shah might attract

B 2

men to his standard. That it was Russia's
destiny to lead such an invasion Mr.
Charrington had no doubt whatever, and
therefore considered any crippling of the
Muscovite most desirable — an impression
not altogether out of date in the present day.
It was one of those chill, grey March
evenings, with a keen nor-easter sweeping
down the Ouse ; the fall of one of those
days when as Kingsley sings :

Chime, ye dappled darlings,
Down the roaring blast;
You shall see a fox die
Ere an hour be past."

The York and Ainsty had " carried a
head" that morning, and the gallop been
both fast and far ; and in the billiard-room
at Byculla Grange were now gathered many
of our old friends who had taken part in the
fray, enjoying all the luxury of tea, a pool
before dinner, and a good gossip. Standing
in front of the fire, and still in his boots,
although he has doffed his red coat for a

plain velvet smoking-jacket, is Horace
Crymes, engaged in conversation with his
hostess. The house is full of guests, and
Crymes and one or two of his brother-officers
have come to dine and sleep ; for, as
their hospitable host says, this is no weather
to turn out after dinner, save in case of
necessity.

"A life off blue!— who's blue?" cries
young Harper, as still in his pink he leans
over the table, and drops that cerulean-tinted
ball artistically into the top pocket.

I am. What a shame, Mr. Harper ;
I was regularly sold by yellow," cried a
pretty, fair-haired girl, laughing as she put
down her sixpence.

Perfectly true, Miss Dan vers. Who's
yellow? Why, Stratford! Tell him he
must advance you a florin to go on with, or
you'll be in the Bankruptcy Court. It was
his reckless attempt to cut in the black left
you over the hole. All right on the white."

You don't hold me for half-a-crown,

Harry," cried Mr. Charrington, the proprietor
of the ball in question.

"Done at once, sir, and in you go,"
rejoined the Cornet, suiting the action to
the word. "I'll trouble you for three
shillings — half-a-crown, and a tizzy for the
life. Serves you right, Mr. Charrington, for
trying to make a child like me nervous on
his stroke."

It strikes me, Master Harry, you're not
likely to suffer much from that complaint,"
rejoined his host, laughing as he handed
over his money. " But where's your sister ? "

She's a wee bit tired after her gallop,
and thought she would lie down till dinner.
She had her tea sent up to her, — thanks."

"It's a fact, I assure you," said Mrs.
Charrington. " I had it in a letter I got
yesterday from an old friend of mine who
is in that presidency, and knows all that
Deccan country well."

It seems almost incredible. He seemed
so thoroughly in earnest fifteen months ago.

I can hardly believe in his forgetting Miss
Aysgarth so soon," replied Crymes, quietly.

Can't you indeed," said his hostess with
a mocking twinkle in her eye. " I could
imagine you, for instance, forgetting most
of us in the same time. But joking apart,
I have heard of this Mrs. Daventry before.
I never saw her, but I am told she is a very
pretty woman, and that anyhow she is one
of those women your sex all go mad about.
That is a thing that has puzzled me as it has
puzzled many of my sisters, and doubtless will
to the end of time. I have seen you all wild
about women who were certainly in my
eyes neither good-looking nor well-dressed.
Clever, I presume, they were, but wherein
their fascination lay was hard to see. I believe
you are a good deal like sheep, and bow down
in adoration because some bell-wether of mark
has thought fit to kneel at the shrine. There
are men in London, I fancy, could establish
a Hottentot in such place did they choose."

"There is something in what you say,"

rejoined the Major, laughing; "but is
Calvert very deeply smitten with this Mrs.
Daventry ? "

He's never away from her side. Coventry
is a complaisant husband, who takes
his own way, and recognizes his wife's
privilege under such circumstances of doing
likewise. She, from all accounts, is a
woman who takes care never to be without
an attache to administer les petits soins for
which she can't depend upon her husband.
At least such is what my informant tells me,
and I have heard strange stories of Mrs.
Daventry and her triumphs before, mind."

There is nothing very strange in a man
becoming the slave of a pretty woman,"
rejoined Crymes ; " especially in India,
where the monotony of life notoriously
disposes men to fall in love with other
people's property."

Ah," replied Mrs. Charrington, laughing,
"it's a country would have rather
suited you. But I shall leave you ; it's

pretty nearly time to begin dressing for
dinner."

Well, Cronies," said the host, as, billiard-cue
in hand, he lounged up to the fire-place,
I wish you could tackle our Manchester
friend of last year now. By Jove ! he'd put
you down with Ezekiel, Jeremiah, and the
rest of ; em. You'll come off as a prophet,
and no mistake. If you are good to open
your oracular lips with regard to Epsom, I
for one shall pay much attention to your
words of wisdom."

"Yes," said the Major, smiling, "I should
like to catch Mr. Fulsby again, and ask him
where Manchester opinion is now. As for
Epsom, all I know is, there will be a great
falling off in attendance as regards the
military element."

Yes, I suppose so ; and we shall then,
unlike Fulsby, admit we could have better
spared better men. There was wont to be a
surrounding of lobsters, prawns, champagne,
and strawberries, about the soldiers that was

very genial in hot, dusty times, when one
was backing losers," said Mr. Harrington,
almost plaintively. u I've had many a good
lunch on the drags opposite the stand."

"And washed down many a reverse, no
doubt," rejoined Cryrnes, as the dressing-gong
rung out its demoniacal strains.

Now it was not to be supposed that such
a piece of gossip as Mrs. Charrington had
come by would be long before it pervaded
the whole house. The hostess had honestly,
as she said, received the news in a letter
from India, but the story was not likely to
lack colour in her hands, and as we know
pretty well warranted any embroidery
Mrs. Charrington could give it. That it
should not only come to Miss Aysgarth's
ears, but be openly talked about before her
was only natural. More than a year had
elapsed since Cis Calvert had left York ;
and though his flirtation with Annie Ays-
garth had been currently spoken about at
the time, it was now pretty well forgotten,

while those who fancied there was considerably
more in it than mere flirtation were
few, and had kept their own counsel.

That Annie listened outwardly unmoved
to the idle chatter about how Captain
Calvert had fallen into the toils of a celebrated
Anglo-Indian siren, need scarcely be
said ; and in the first instance it was with
tolerably tranquil incredulity. But that
constant dripping which wears the stone
extends also to our beliefs. It has been
said that if you have only the opportunity
to drum any plausible story continuously
into the heads of your fellow-creatures, you
must be exceeding wanting in eloquence if
twenty per cent, of them at least, in a short
time, do not place implicit faith in your
recital. Similarly, however much you may
disbelieve a bit of gossip in the first
instance, if you find it constantly repeated
and generally accepted as true, it's odds,
unless you are more strong-minded than
humanity generally, that you also assent toit.

Gradually Annie began to feel excessively
unhappy over this story. Once more
she recalled to mind that Cis had never
answered that letter of hers, and argued
that if he really loved her he had no
business to consider her released from her
engagement to him when she had distinctly
told him she would stand to it, and disbelieved
all that was said against him.
She thought, and justly too, that if she had
courage to write to him, the least he could
do was to gladly accept such correspondence.
It w r as impossible she could conceive the
morbid view Cis had taken of his own
misfortune. Not one man in a hundred
would have been so keenly sensitive to the
slur cast upon his honour as Calvert ; few
regular racing men indeed have not at sometime
or another in their career had to stand
the brunt of some such unfounded attack.
Cis was no regular trite ; had he been so,
he'd been less sensitive to unjust accusation.
Men whose turf life has been summed up at

its finish as irreproachable have nevertheless
passed through the time when mud was
thrown at them — thrown at them for no just
cause, but simply by an unreasoning crowd
who had lost their money, as had probably
the luckless owner who kept horses for their
amusement. Then again, Harry had not
heard from him lately, and to a girl in
Annie Aysgarth's frame of mind, that offered
additional corroboration of Mrs. Charring-ton's
story. How the girl wished this visit
was over; for although they lived but a few
miles off, they had come to spend the week,
after the cheery north-country fashion. As
for her brother, Major Crymes, and one or
two more of the Lancers, they oscillated
between the Grange and the barracks, sleeping
in these latter when exigencies compelled,
or occasionally spending the morning
there under similar compulsion.

Prepossessed though Annie had originally
been against Horace Crymes, she had most
undoubtedly overcome that feeling now.

She had seen a good deal of the Major of
late, and nothing could have exceeded his
tact and deferential courtesy. His attentions
were never so marked as to alarm her,
but still he never failed to accord her that-pronounced
homage which men rarely pay
except to women they both admire and
esteem. He had commenced his pursuit of
the banker's daughter a little from pique,
but far more because his affairs were in such
desperate case that he saw no hope for him
but a wealthy marriage. The outburst of
war made things still more critical in that
respect. Creditors had already shown themselves
wondrous keen for a settlement before
their military clients departed in pursuit of
glory, and Crimes knew that soon as the
regiment was under orders the pressure
would be overwhelming. But it must be
also said in his behalf, that with whatever
motive he had commenced his courtship — if
such it can yet be called — he was now honestly
in love with the girl for herself, and

nervously anxious for the success of his suit.
Barely when a man is, so to speak, with his
back to the wall, does fortune befriend him.
She is a capricious jade, more wont to smile
on the well-to-do than interfere on behalf
of the gambler playing for his last stake.
But though she has deserted him of late,
Horace Crymes had ever been one of her
favoured children, and she comes to his aid
once more in curious fashion.

One morning, at Byculla Grange, a letter
with a broad black border is brought up to
the Major's room, by which he is informed
that an uncle from whom he had really no
expectations had departed this life, and left
him between three and four thousand a
year. The old gentleman happened to be
of a most tetchy, irritable, dictatorial disposition.
He had quarrelled with all the
nephews whom he had to stay with him on
probation, owing to their utter inability to
tolerate his unbearable temper. Disliking
the nephew he had never seen somewhat

less than the nephews he had, and impressed
by the fact that the Major had never either
wanted anything from him or evinced the
slightest disposition to cultivate his acquaintance,
the old man determined to make him
his heir — fortified further in this resolution
by the thought of the surprise and heartburning
it would create among the rest of
the family.

By heaven, what a piece of luck ! "
muttered the Major as he mastered the
contents of the letter, and sprang out of
bed. " How right I was never to go near
old Tom Dowling ! I always told my cousins
visiting him would be neither profitable nor
pleasant ; that the contents of hi will, like
a pawnbroker's shop, would consist chiefly
of unredeemed pledges. However, I must
leave this at once ; it's a bore ; bub when a
man leaves one near on four thousand a
year, the least one can do is to attend his
funeral."

Breakfast over, Crymes briefly explained

to Mrs. Charrington the necessity for his
immediate departure, and the good fortune
that had befallen him, and then proceeded at
once to barracks to arrange for a short leave.

Best cut things as short as you can,
Crymes," said the colonel. " I take it the
ball's begun in earnest, and it's not likely
we shall be left out of the dance."

I trust not. I must go down to this
funeral, and shall probably be detained a
few days on other business connected with
my inheritance, or else I wouldn't ask you
to spare me now ; but you may depend
upon my not taking an hour's more leave
than I am obliged."

Good-bye," replied Copplestone, as he
shook hands. "This time next year may
you command the regiment and I a
brigade."

Oh vive la guerre, cigars and cognac,'
rejoined Crymes, quoting the refrain of a
popular ballad of those days. " Good-bye,

sir."

VOL. III.

The late Thomas Dowling had lived ina
pretty villa residence, close to Tunbridge
Wells. He was no landed proprietor ;
some thirty acres of grass and ornamental
grounds constituting his lordship ; while
the remainder of his property was comfortably
invested in stocks, railways, and such
securities. No inheritance could have been
more convenient to a man in Crymes'
position, as it was easy to realize almost at
once sufficient to extricate him from his
difficulties. He mused, as he sped southwards,
much over his change of position, but
chiefly how it would affect him with regard
to Miss Aysgarth. He knew, of course, that
there was not a soul at Byculla Grange by
this time unaware that he had come into a
considerable property. He had no motive
for imposing secrecy on Mrs. Charrington,
and if he had, would have saved her from
temptation by not telling her of his good
fortune. Miss Aysgarth would be at all
events compelled to regard him as perfectly

disinterested in seeking her hand, and that
when you ; re in earnest is something. The
difficulty he foresaw was the war. He was
far too keen a soldier not to hail with exultation
the prospect of at last seeing the " real
thing " after fifteen years of garrison life in
the United Kingdom, but he was also much
too good a judge of the situation not to
know that England would have to put every
regiment she could lay her hands on in the
field. This of course meant that the — th
would speedily get their orders for the East,
and then came the question — What was he todo
? To speak now he felt would be premature
; and yet he did not like to start on
this campaign without having at least made
Miss Aysgarth clearly understand lie was
a pretender to her hand. As he had forecast
the war the year before, so did Crymes
now believe that it was no insignificant
struggle to which the allies were committed.

GO

History told all who loved to read what
tremendous power of resistance Russia had

C 2

invariably displayed when put upon the defensive.
Formidable in attack, she was
trebly formidable when the object of attack,
and could point to a long record of those
who had driven their heads against the wall
when venturing on violation of her territory.
No ; war with Eussia meant no mere
summer campaign, but probably a couple of
years' hard fighting or more once she and
the allies really came to blows, and it was
evident now to all clear-headed men that
England was in no more humour to receive
concessions than Eussia to make them.
Individuals made war in the past — monarchs,
ministers, ambassadors. It is nations make
war in these days, and Louis Napoleon had
no more to do with the Franco-Prussian war
than the late Czar of Eussia with the last
fierce spring of the Muscovite at the throat
of the Moslem.

Horace Crymes, however, was a practical
man, and knew that his immediate business
was to bury his uncle, settle all law business

connected with his inheritance as far as
possible, and hurry back to York. Quite
time enough to make up his mind about
what he was to say to Miss Aysgarth when
the " rout " came ; for that it behoved him
to postpone speaking till the last moment
was a point on which Crymes felt very clear.

He ran up to the Colonel's rooms to report
himself on his return, and found that warrior
much exercised in his mind.

It's devilish odd, you know ; but why
we don't get our marching ticket, Crymes, I
can't make out. D — mine, if we're not fit
to go I should like to know the corps that
is ; and it is a thundering shame if we're to
be left kicking our heels about here when
they must know, if they know anything,
that they haven't half cavalry enough with
the army."

Coppleston was a grand enthusiast about
his own branch of the service, and believed
implicitly that he could take his own
regiment anywhere, and that Russian

infantry squares would collapse like brown
paper if ridden at by British dragoons.

"Deuced little fear of our turn not
coming," replied Crymes. " I've made
arrangements while away to get rid of all
my racing stud, and mean to clear out all
I've got here except old Cockatoo, my second
charger, that brown horse, and the Cid. I
sent the latter into the school a month
back."

Yes ; and a rare charger he'll make you.
Take my advice and leave old Cockatoo
behind ; a good horse, but a terrible colour
for campaigning ; kill your best man to
keep him decent for parade."

Colonel Coppleston was not long kept in
suspense, for ere the week was out arrived
the order for the regiment to proceed to
Woolwich, from whence they were to embark
for the East, and the — th Lancers
were jubilant as their brethren before them
at the idea of a turn of active service.
Little they reck as they gather round their

mess table for the last time previous to the
plate being sent to the custody of their
bankers what gaps there will be round the
board when they next reassemble, and that
the Queen's health once disposed of, they
will be called on to drink silently to their
comrades sleeping peacefully on the plain of
Balaklava.

CHAPTER II.

"a diplomatic question."

The — tli were given scant time in which
to say " Good-bye." Farewell visits had to
be paid hurriedly, and proffered " Godspeed
" entertainments had to be declined.

At the time of which I am writing the
army was in great repute. It was a very
long while since we had indulged in the
luxury of a big European war, and the
nation generally was a little delirious over
it, so that not only private persons, but
public corporations were keen upon entertaining
their soldiers. I can remember the
landlord of a famous Bristol hostelry drawing
his crack bin of equally famous old port

for our delectation as we passed through on
our way to the war, and indignantly declining
the idea that it should be noted in
the bill, and think sorrowfully to this day how
thrown away it must have been upon palates
accustomed to that fiery fortified combination
that did duty as such around the hospitable
boards of the army. It is melancholy to
reflect upon, one of those anomalies that
make one suspect a flaw in the ordering of
things, but the appreciation of port comes tous
just as the capability of indulging in it
has departed. The best judges of that
grandest of wines are those who dare no
longer drink it. Inexcusable digression you
call this ! Not altogether. The days when
you could drink port, or you liked it, were
those in which "all the world was young,
lad," and if we are not allowed to sorrow
over that past spring-time, about what is it
worth while to make moan ?

Crymes knew now that his tale had to be
told ; there was no help for it. Premature

it was in his judgment to speak as jet, but
he thought it would be still more hazardous
to leave York without avowing his hopes ;
and then he pondered a little on whether he
had best speak to Julian Harperley or his
daughter. Under other circumstances it
would never have occurred to Crymes to
hesitate upon such a point. " Get the girl's
yes to your love tale," he was wont to say,
"and a fig for all parents and guardians;
it's want of starch in your own system if
you can't infuse sufficient obstinacy and
insubordination into a woman who loves
you. The weakest woman will show plenty
of determination given two things, — a lover
with a strong will, and opportunity to see
him frequently." But the difficulty here was,
would he get a yes to his love-tale, and
albeit little given to lack of confidence in
affairs of this nature, Horace Crymes felt
very dubious on that point. No man had
more implicit reliance in the doctrine of il
faut se faire valoir than himself, but there

are times when we feel intuitively that we
shall fail to command the top price in the
market, and this it was made Crymes muse
over whether it would not be prudent in the
first place to open the trenches with the
banker himself. Parental sanction might
count for something, he thought ; and situated
as he was now, he might fairly reckon on
Julian Harperley's approval ; but then he
reflected that Miss Aysgarth was of an age
when a young woman usually takes her fate
into her own hands, if she has any character
at all, and he thoroughly comprehended that
Miss Aysgarth both could and would think
for herself in such a matter. No ; he thought
he must speak to Annie, and if possible
avert a positive rejection. That Horace
Crymes was very earnest in his love is sufficiently
obvious by his being apprehensive
on this point ; for there was never a man
more given to confidence in his wooing
than he.

One afternoon in the early April weather

he sauntered over to the Firs on old Cockatoo,
to say good-bye, and put, as he said to
himself, his fate to the test. He had turned
it over in his own mind with much deliberation,
and resolved that unless things looked
most decidedly adverse he would speak out
to Miss Aysgarth.

Odd," he muttered, as he dropped the
reins on the old horse's neck, " I've done
plenty of love-making in my time, and my
tongue never faltered ; yet here I am, going
to avow the honestest love I ever felt, and
standing in a worldly point of view in a
much better position than I have ever so far
done, and I feel as if speech would fail me.
But what is there in this girl that I should
dread tell her I love her ? Yes, that is just
it ; I do love her, and never was thoroughly
in earnest before."

Crymes sent in his name, and was duly
informed that Miss Aysgarth was at home.
He found her seated in a low chair by the
fire. On a table by her side were spread out

a couple of maps, and some books and
papers lady strewn on the carpet at her feet.
She smiled as she welcomed him.

Oh, Major Crymes," she exclaimed,
<: you remember the retort of one of my sexto
the great Napoleon, when he told her
women had no business to study politics :
Excuse me, General, but when you men cutoff
our heads, we may be pardoned for feeling
curious to know why you do it.' Like
her, now you men have determined to fight,
we women are anxious to know when you
mean to do it."

Are those our maps of the Principalities,
Crimea, European Turkey, &c. % "

Yes ; and here," she said, placing her
finger on Varna, " is apparently where
you will eventually all collect. I beg
pardon, concentrate is the correct word, is
it not ? "

Yes," replied Crymes, gravely. " I don't
pretend to know where the fight will ultimately
come off, but rest assured, Miss

Aysgarth, that it will not be there. The
Russian is already foiled in his spring at
Constantinople, and will wait now for us to
take the initiative. At what our military
directors will hurl us no one can say ; but
they are bound to try something. Spite of
appearances, it can never all end in demonstration,
or the bombardment of Cronstadt.
Land fortifications always should beat ships,
and the navy are little likely to do much
harm to either that or Sweabourg."

Odd," she replied, " I never regarded it
in that light. I thought you were all
assembling here," and once more she placed
her finger on the map, " and that Russia
would have to beat you before she continued
her march on Constantinople."

No, Miss Aysgarth ; without the slightest
disparagement to the Muscovite, I fancy
he will content himself with standing on the
defensive. It is simply ordinary prudence
to await the assault when you deem yourself
weaker than your adversary."

And that we shall proceed to extremities
you don't doubt V she inquired.

'•' I certainly think we are on the verge of
a big war. We are the one nation in
Europe that always shuts its eyes to
that possibility. The long peace since the
wars of Napoleon has been simply the
result of utter exhaustion. All this talk
of an appeal to arms being impossible
in these days of advanced civilization
is mere balderdash. Men and nations
are as quarrelsome as ever they were.
Humanity is unchangeable, civilization a
mere fashion ; and fashion, when the masses
are stirred, has about as much to say
to it as packthread would have to the
guidance of whales."

u It will be weary times for us women
who have those near and dear to us away
in the strife. I hardly realize it as yet ; a
twelve-month ago, when Harry got his
commission, that I should feel uneasy about
him seemed a very remote possibility ; and

now we shall be shortly watching for every
mail with feverish interest."

"I hope that you will not feel quite
indifferent to the fate of the rest of us, Miss
Aysgarth," observed Crymes in a low voice.

No, indeed," she replied quickly, as her
eyes flashed full on him. "I know you all
and most of you intimately. I should be
terribly grieved to hear evil tidings of the
regiment, or that any of you individually
had come to any sort of trouble. No one
will follow your fortunes with keener interest
than myself."

I am going to ask you to take special
interest in me," rejoined Crymes. " I have
a superstition that those you watch over and
care for will come home safe and sound

again.

You superstitious, Major Crymes ! " she
replied, laughing. " I should never have
thought that of you. But," she continued,
more seriously, " I know very well if this
turn out such a war as you anticipate, some of

you will never see England again. You and
I have been great friends of late, and I'm
sure you cannot doubt that I should be
sincerely grieved to hear that any harm had
befallen you."

Great friends ! and is there no possibility
of our being more than that to each
other ? You must have known — because
women always do know these things — that
I have loved you for the last six months
or more."

Hush ! " interposed Annie, quickly.
Do not fall into any mistake, Major
Crymes. Friends of course we are ; staunch
ones ; and I shall always follow your
fortunes with the greatest interest, believe
me."

I would be something more than that,"
he rejoined, in quiet resolute fashion.
Stop ! hear me out before you make any
answer. It is little for a man to ask that
you should listen to his tale, and more
might never have been told you did I not

VOL. III. D

think there was strong justification for my
speaking. I have loved you very dearly for
some time, but feared to put my fortune to
the test. You may guess perhaps why.
What was current scandal a fortnight ago
at Byculla unsealed my lips. The reason I
left the Grange, of which you are doubtless
aware, gave me full warranty to speak to
any woman of marriage. I came into a
good three thousand a year by my uncle's
will, and consequently am no longer compelled
to sue like most of us soldiers —
in forma pauperis.

It might have been fancy, but Annie
could not help thinking that she could detect
a covert smile at Calvert's circumstances in
the concluding words of Cryrnes' speech, carefully
as he had avoided bringing Cis's name
into the conversation. If she was angry and
mistrustful of this far-away lover of hers, she
was not prepared to hear him run down by
others, and quite ready to champion him
when she could do so discreetly. She

snatched at the opening Cyrus had given,
and bending her head haughtily retorted :

You do me too much honour, sir ; but
this poor hand is not for sale as yet."

You know that is not what I mean.
You are wilfully misunderstanding me," he
replied quietly. "Men of the world are
bound to assure the ladies they hope to
make their wives that they can maintain
them in all the ease and comfort they have
been accustomed to. I know you much too
well to think that my banker's account would
influence your decision. I know that I am
asking prematurely perhaps, but I could not
leave England without telling you this."

And why would you ? " she cried vehemently.
" I tried to prevent you ; to tell
you it was — "

There will have been a good many such
stories told these last few weeks," he interposed
quickly. " Men always do speak out
just when they ought not. And yet I don't
know. I heard of a girl the other day, who,

D 2

when her relations were angrily abusing a
luckless admirer for declaring himself under
the circumstances, flamed out, and said it
would be a consolation if anything happened
to him to know that he had loved her.
Miss Aysgarth," he continued, rising, " I
have come to say good-bye. I don't ask for
an answer now ; I may never ask for an
answer ; but it will be a comfort to me intime
of need to remember that I have told
you my story."

"But, Major Crymes," she exclaimed, " I
cannot let you go under any impression — "

I go under no impression that a word
from your lips could alter," he interrupted.
"Good-bye." He pressed the hand warmly
and was gone.

He had told his love tale, and Annie
Aysgarth, unwilling as she had been to
listen to it, was fain to confess he had told
it well. She did not care for this man, but
she felt that his love was not to be scoffed
at. With his tall, wiry figure, and dark

resolute face, he was the beau ideal of a
sabreur, and she was conscious of a tossed
determination about him that made it rash
to assume he would fail in anything he had
set his mind upon. She had seen one or two
instances of her own sex succumbing in the
end to men of this stamp, much as they had
ridiculed the idea to begin with ; and these
successful wooers had been neither as good-looking
nor well endowed as Major Crymes.
Was she faltering in her allegiance ? If she
was who could blame her ? Not a line had
she received for months from Cis Calvert ;
and such tidings of him as had reached her
ears were hardly calculated to strengthen
her constancy. This Indian scandal, which
though not directly told her, was continually
buzzed into her ears, was hard to fight against.
A girl strong in the assurance of her lover's
truth, with letters occasionally from him to
show that she still holds the first place both
in his heart and his memory, can endure
much, but when her letters are unanswered,

and the rumour comes to her from afar that
this admirer of hers is enthralled by another
woman, her belief falters. The sex are wont
to be a little merciless to one another upon
these occasions ; it may not be deliberate
malignity, but women are not specially considerate
of a sister's feelings upon these
occasions. No one told Annie Aysgarth
outright of her lover's inconstancy, but
over and over again during that wretched
week at Byculla Grange it was discussed,
though perhaps unintentionally, in her
hearing. Every now and again she was
doomed to suffer that deep humiliation to a
proud passionate woman — the commiseration
concerning the way her lover had treated her,
and only a woman can understand the bitterness
of tasting of that cup. That her love
affairs may go wrong is hard enough to bear ;
it means so infinitely more to the woman
than to the man.

"Love is of man's life a thing apart ; 'tis woman's
whole existence."

Let this story be true or let it be false,
the one fact remained — Cis Calvert had
returned no reply to her last letter. Her
father had thrown cold water upon the idea
of her marriage, but she had stood resolutely
by her lover. Surely if she firmly refused
to give up their correspondence, it was not
for him to renounce it ! The plea that he
could not allow her to link her fortunes to
a broken man, if she choose to waive,
hardly became him, if he loved her, to
advance. She had told him that her belief
in him was unshaken, that she would stand
by him in his hour of trouble as a true
woman always does ; and God help the man
who cannot believe in such ! But it was
hard — aye, infinitely hard — to have the
precious spikenard rejected ; to find that
this man, upon whom she had lavished all
the wealth of her love, had so soon forgotten
her that his infatuation for another woman
was already a current Indian scandal. And
now, strange to say, another lover was at

her feet, a man who much more nearly
represented her beau ideal of that possible
husband of whom every young girl dreams.
They don't marry these shadowy phantoms
any more than men marry the visionary
perfection which sweeps across their boyish
imagination. Fitzgerald's ballad perhaps
describes these withered leaves of youthful
fancy as well as anything :

There are names that we cherish, tho' nameless,

For aye on the lips they may be ;
There are hearts that, tho' fettered, are tameless,

And thoughts unexpressed, but still free !
And some are too grave for a rover,

And some for a husband too light ; —
The ball and my dream are all over —

Good-night to thee, lady, good-night ! "

It must not be for one moment imagined
that Annie Aysgarth actually wavered in
her love for Cis, but when a man to all
appearance completely neglects his fiancee,
and all she can hear of him is that he is
dangling at the skirts of another woman,
and when another suitor, not only good-looking

but well to do in the world, presses
himself on her acceptance, she may well ask
herself whether this former lover was really
worthy of the affection she had bestowed
on him. And that was precisely the feeling
that began to steal into Annie Aysgarth's
mind as she looked sadly back at the march
of events. The idea of wedding Major
Crymes never crossed her mind, and yet
she knew that many a girl in Yorkshire
would gladly welcome that swart, handsome
Lancer, with his three thousand a year, as a
wooer. He was good-looking, and emphatically
a man, and could undoubtedly give a
right good home to whatever woman he led
to the altar. Nobody could see all this
more readily than clear-headed, practical
Annie Aysgarth. She knew, as has happened
scores of times before, that from a
worldly point of view she had much better
take the well-to-do lover who knelt at her
feet, than the broken scapegrace whose very
passion for her seemed now open to question.

But our feelings are not always under our
own control. Human nature is about the
one thing upon the immutability of which
we can rely ; and love has upset prudence
since the world began.

Annie Aysgarth was in truth having a
hard time of it just now. She might not
want to marry Major Crymes, but he and
several others of the — th Lancers had been
intimates at the Firs ; and though she as yet
hardly realized it, she had gathered quite
enough from Crymes to know that this was
no mere military promenade they were
embarked upon. Women cannot help feeling
a little heartsick on such occasions.
Granted he is no more than a favourite
ball-room partner, the thought that they
may be pressing his hand for the last time
makes their hearts wondrous tender to
those who are going forth to do battle for
England. Besides, had she not an actual
brother going forth in their ranks, a brother
of whom too she was very fond, and from

whom this was to be her first separation in
earnest ? She had of course lost sight of
him for short intervals in his public schooldays,
but since he had buckled a sabre it
had been his luck to be quartered within a
mile or so of his own home, and she had
naturally seen him continually. But when
those starting for the East might return
was a very open question, and one about
which no sensible man would even venture
a conjecture. There were not wanting
those who at this moment did not believe
that a shot would be fired on either side ;
plenty of people about only the other day
pooh-cooling the idea of the bombarding
Alexandria, or the despatching the army
to Egypt. These things always are so.
Nations, like men, don't quarrel deliberately,
but drift into their differences ; and nothing
is perhaps so conducive to the arguments
of violence as the persuasion of one combatant
that the other will not fight.

In fact, Annie Aysgarth had nothing

before her but the prospect of that weary
waiting, destined to be the lot of so many
women during those days. Happy were
those whose dear ones came safe back to
them, and who were spared the finding of
their name in those ghastly returns of
killed and wounded only too frequent in
the columns of the Times before that little
matter of the Chersonese was decided !

CHAPTER III.

"THE swagger of war."

Attired in braided pelisse, from beneath
the top of which peeped out a gold-laced
collar, while below it were to be seen gold-laced
overalls thrust into his;h riding-boots
with armed heels, and with a cavalry sabre
under his arm, Cis Calvert might be seen
one November day picking his way through
the dirty streets that lead from Tophana to
Pera. He looked jaded and wearied, and as
if so far he had met neither the excitement
nor the oblivion that he craved for. He had
no regret for the Indian career he had so
abruptly abandoned ; he did not like his
regiment, and bitterly resented their not

standing by him in his hour of need ; and
then again he remembered the complication
with Mrs. Daventry was getting almost
beyond his control. There are no doubt
men impassive to the fascinations and
avowed love of a pretty woman as there
are cabbages ; but I fancy these stoics will
have but a gloomy record to look back
upon, and that the memories of twenty love
scrapes are better than that of the ledger
which shows no such entry. Cis had
sought to dissipate his ennui by a flirtation
with Mrs. Daventry in the first instance ;
but the lady had apparently caught the
spirit of the land of her adoption, and
intended a love affair with all the volcanic
violence of the East.

As he steamed away from Bombay, ruefully
reflecting that he was once more the
hero of an ugly turf scandal, Cis could not
but call to mind that far sadder day when
he had left the station at York. His old
Lancer brethren had stood to him like menin

his first trouble, but his new corps had
looked askance when scandal waxed wicked
with his name. Cis did not reflect that in
the — th Lancers he was both well known
and popular, while in the Royal Dunbarss he
was neither. Yes ; leaving the latter and
the fierce love of Mrs. Daventry was a
relief; the saying adieu to his old dragoon
brethren and sweet Annie Aysgarth had
been an agony. Should he ever see her
again ? Better not. With his wretched
Indian story on the top of the Yorkshire
offending, how could he ever hope to
approach her again ? It was hard that he
should always be the scapegoat. Still it
was possible to make some sort of name,
show there was stuff in him, and clear the
smirched scutcheon which he at present
bore, however innocently, in the great drama
about to be enacted.

When Cis arrived at Constantinople the
main body of the allied army was round
and about Varna, while the cavalry were

using up their men and horses in that
useless promenade in the Dobruska ; but it
was evident to every one that the allies
were bound to do something, and, in fact,
had only concentrated their forces preliminary
to striking a blow, though in what
direction that blow would be aimed was as
yet a profound secret. Cis's anxiety to get
military employment at once was such that
he jumped at a commission in the Basis
that " refuge of sinners " as it was
often laughingly called in consequence of
numbering amongst its officers no inconsiderable
number of " the broken brigade,"
who, like Martha husband in Faust, —

Lov'd women too, and had for wine a thirst,
Besides their passion for those dice accurst."

Most of the friends who might have
helped him were away in Bulgaria, and
afraid to be out of the fray he was glad to
take the first thing that offered. Reason,
of Beat son's horse, was a name of mark in
India, and Cis had fair reason to suppose

such a well-known leader of irregular cavalry
would be speedily found work for his command.
"Whether the material he met with
proved past his kneading, or what might bethe
reason, the writer knows not, but certain
it is, that the Bashi-Bazouks, from whom atone
time great things were expected, were
never heard of in the Crimean business after
the work began. It was curious too, for in
their early days they were pronounced just
the fellows to tackle the Cossacks. It was
true that the experts who then so freely
expressed their opinion had never seen a
Cossack nor a shot fired in anger, but there
was a period of enlightenment before them,
and before many months some of these
critics had cut their way through the
children of the Don at Balaklava and witnessed
the red rain of Inkerman. Since
Cleopatra led the stampede of Actium the
Egyptians have always run away, but the
Russians were made of very different stuff,
and the Crimean men won their scanty

VOL. III. E

laurels in very different fashion from the
triple-crowned heroes of the twenty-five
minutes' fight at Tel-el-Kebir.

Poor Cis, he chafed with impatience when
the news came down of the landing in the
Crimea and the defeat of Menschikoff on the
Alma. When were they to get their orders ?
When were Beatson and his wild troopers to
take their part in the dance ? Then came
the terrible account of Balaklava, and the
well-nigh annihilation of the Light Brigade.
Surely they-must be wanted now. Every
sabre that could be raised must be required
at the front after such a disaster as that !
Splendid as the charge was, famous as it is
still, and will be for all time in song and
story, that it was one of those costly deeds
of herring-do which it is not meet to exult
about there was no denying. Yet no order
came for the Bashi-Bazouks to embark for
the front. Cis's heart sickened. He had
come here for " the real thing," to take his
share of the work, and found himself

knocking about Constantinople and its
vicinity much as a man quartered at Aldershot
might be seen about London and
Greenwich in the season. Every time he
went up from Gallipoli to the capital he
felt ashamed of his gaudy, untarnished
splendour as he encountered the many
weather-stained uniforms which characterized
the invalids from the front ; men
wounded at Alma or Inkerman, or to whom
the wet, cold, and severe starvation of the
trenches had tried past endurance. Cis
might well look faded and wearied as he
picked his way through the mud and filth
of Galata on a louring day towards the end
of November ; he could not but feel that
the cards were running persistently against
him. As if the York scrape had not been
black enough, he knew he had left the
Royal D unbars with the reputation of
having stood in with two of the most
notorious " practitioners " in the Presidency
in about as shameful a turf robbery as the

E 2

Presidency had ever witnessed. He had
himself endorsed his fault in the second
case as he had in the first, by flying from
the scandal, although influenced by very
different motives. His own' thoughts were
torture to him ; he felt that Annie Aysgarth
was further removed from him than ever.
If her father had deemed that miserable
steeplechase cause to demur against him asa
son-in-law, what would he say when the
distorted story of the Nizam's Plate reached
his ears % Poor Cis, he longed for work ; he
longed to be where shot were flying and
sabres rino;in^. His blood had tingled, as
every soldier's of England had, when he
read Russell's soul-stirring accounts of the
death - ride of Balaklava ; of the long,
stubborn, dogged stand at Inkerman ; and
here he was kicking his heels about the
camp at Gallipoli or the dirty streets of
Constantinople. He might as well, he
mused grimly, have been listening to the
band on the Mexican at Secunderabad.

Full of his own sad thoughts, despite
being once or twice nearly knocked down
by annals, trotting blindly along under
their monstrous burdens, Cis reached the
top of the hill, and turning into the main
street was making his way towards Misery's
Hotel when he ran across a stalwart man of
medium stature, bearded like a pard, and
habited in a rough pea-jacket, long boots,
and a forage-cap, the scarlet band of which
had acquired a tint that could be likened to
nothing but the skirts of a hunting-coat at
the expiration of a second wet season. The
inhabitant of the pea-jacket stopped, gazed
steadfastly at the gaily-attired warrior who
confronted him, and then exclaimed :

Cis Calvert, by all that's whimsical !
How are you, old man ? And what on earth
induced you to enrol yourself in the
Pillagers ' ? Rather rough to dub them
so, ain't it, considering they haven't had a
chance yet % "

Jerry Arkwright, isn't it ? — though a

fellow may be excused having doubts about
your personality behind all that hair. How
are you, old man ? I saw your name was
mentioned in despatches about the Inkerman
day, and d — n it, every one of you
deserved it. By the way, you were hit,
weren't you ? "

Yes ; that's the reason you see me down
here now. It wasn't much, but our doctor
shipped me off sharp, saying, 'You'll come
round quicker below than you will up here,
if only because you can get decent food and
bottled stout.' I shall be going back in
another three weeks or so, and in the meantime
there seems a lull. Inkerman has
pacified both sides for a little, just, Cis, as
in our old Harrow days a good stand-up
fight kept two fellows who were always
jarring quiet for the half-year."

"Ah, both sides too exhausted to go on,
I suppose ? "

Well," rejoined Arkwright gravely, "it
is to be hoped they are, but there's no doubt

whatever about us. I don't, from what I
know, think we've another Inkerman left in
us just now. The only comfort is the loser
in such an awful slogging fight as that was
don't usually want any more for some time.
But here we are at Misery's ; come in and
have some dinner."

Just what I proposed doing. A talk
with you'll do me good, Jerry, although I'm
almost ashamed to be seen with you."

Well, I'm not much to look at," grinned
Arkwright. " I hardly look up to the mark
for a levee at St. James', I know ; and don't
you think I've got any evening togs to get
into, old man. I'm not proprietor of much
more than I stand in, and the essentials are
more looked to than the ornamental up
there, I tell you."

You misunderstand me," replied Cis
bitterly, and with a contemptuous glance at
his own gay attire. " I'm ashamed of all
this tinsel being paraded alongside a uniform
stained with the smoke of Inkerman."

The Crimea's bad for clothes," replied
Arkwrigkt, sententiously ; " but hang it all,
why ain't you with us up there instead of
kicking about here got up for a Queen's
Ball ? "

It's a little rough," rejoined Cis. " You
know, or perhaps don't know, I left the
th Lancers and joined the Royal Dunbarss
in India. I sold out of that regiment and
came straight here to volunteer for anything
might be going. I was offered a troop in
these Bashi-Bazouks of Beatson's and jumped
at it. I thought they'd be safe to send
these fellows to the front, but they don't
seem to fancy em somehow. I'm not sure
but they're right; still when it comes to
looting I'd back our fellows against any
corps — ah ! or any brigade in the army."

Well, you see," said Arkwright, " their
proficiency in that respect alone is sufficient
to condemn them to inaction. There happens
just now to be no scope for their
peculiar talents at the front. They could

only loot our side, and, upon my soul, we've
so deuced little to lose we couldn't stand
any petty abstraction, to say nothing of its
not being worth their while. But here,
Cis, if you mean business, take my advice
and chuck that corps. This thing mind's
got to be fought out in the Crimea at
present, and those fellows will never be sent
there. Erzroum, Ears, or up that way, will
be their destination, if ever they are sent to
the front in any direction. The Crimea,
my boy, is the cockpit in which the first
main between the Muscovite and the Western
Powers is to be decided. We're bound to
go on there till we've got Sebastopol. About
what is to follow then this prophet's dumb.
It's not necessary to speculate on at present.
We are very much outside at present, and
shall be quite content to just hold our own
till the spring'

But surely we've reinforcements on the
way out ? " exclaimed Cis.

"A dubious blessing," rejoined Arkwright,

diving into a mysterious salmi. We can't
quite feed those we have there, and a multiplication
of mouths means an extension of
that difficulty."

But we must have more men' cried
Cis.

Get me another pint of stout, waiter.
Of course we must, but we hardly want
them till the spring. John Bull is just
waking up to the muddle we're in. Grub
and transport is a mere matter of money
now, and England, when it comes to that,
is bad to beat ; two, three, or four thousand
navvies would soon make a road to the
front, and there's no fear of our having
plenty of everything unless its men next
year. We must win in the end. It's water
carriage against land unmitigated by railroad.
The Russians have the best of it
now, but they won't have six months hence ;
but there'll be a power of stiff fighting
before we get Sebastopol. The Muscovite
has shown already that he yields never a

yard without a good stand-up tassel, and is
always good to try till daylight to recover
anything he lost at sunset. ' The Ovens
in the taking of which poor Tryon of the
Rifles lost his life, gave them a rare lively
night in the left attack. They were seized
with a cheer and a rush with the bayonet ;
but the Russians came on again and again
till sunrise to dispute possession."

Yes, it was a fine thing that," said Cis
gloomily, " and to think of kicking about
here in all this tawdry" — and here he glanced
contemptuously at his lace-cozened uniform
"while such chances as that are going on
at the front ! "

Well, poor Tryon's chance came off the
wrong way, like many another good fellow's
since we landed at Old Fort ; but we can't
all win whatever the game is, and there
will be more deuce aces thrown than double
sixes no doubt by those gambling with
death around Sebastopol. Nevertheless,
Cis, I say, resign your commission in ' the

Pillagers sink that gilded splendour, and
come back with me in three weeks. There's
plenty of work for all of us, and a volunteer
of the right sort, like yourself, won't find
himself out of employment long, I'll warrant.
If you don't mind taking a subaltern's
berth there are regiments at the front
woefully short of officers."

I'd take a non-commissioned officer's
appointment sooner than knock about herein
this peacocks garb," rejoined Cis curtly.

Well, old man, if that's your temper
you needn't be coldhearted ; never fear
but what you'll find a place amongst the
commissioned after a week or two. Now,
let's go and smoke."

The two adjourned to that anteroom off
the Salle-manger, which was dedicated to
the Nicotian goddess ; literally, at that time,
the high change of travel and the hot-bed
of cards. It was more thinly occupied
than usual, and conversation languished,
like the operations of the Allies. There was

little indeed of a cheerful nature to be got
out of Crimean talk at that time. The
sufferings of those engaged in the Sebastopol
leaguer were no secret at Constantinople,
and the long aisles of the big hospital on
the opposite side gave appalling corroboration
of the truth of these stories. It was
well for the besiegers that the besieged were
as exhausted as themselves, and left the
annihilation of their foes to those grim
Generals, January, February, and March.
It was an anxious time : raise the siege the
Allies could not even if they wished. To
disembark was an impossibility. No ; they
were in "the ring" now, and the battle
between them and the Muscovite had to be
fought out then and there. Grant's famous
struggle in the wilderness during the great
American rebellion bore the nearest resemblance
to the Crimea of all later warfare —
a slogging, dogged fight, with very little
strategy in it.

And it was about this time, while they

were still waiting; for Arkwrigkt to recover
his health and strength so as to be once
more able to face the trying and dreary
trench work of those gloomy winter months,
that the news came down to Constantinople
of that awful hurricane in which the ' Black
Prince one of the few ships laden with
warm clothing, of which the authorities
actually had knowledge, foundered, and
went down with every sock and blanket, — to
say nothing of her crew. I am not going
to dip any further into that miserable
muddle ; there was plenty enough said
deservedly, both at the time and afterwards —
albeit that the army, like the serpent, moves
upon its belly, has never been, nor is yet,
an admitted fact amongst our military
administrators. The necessities of life, by
the way, seemed as scarce amongst the
pursuers of the light-footed Egyptians as
they were with their forbears who fought
so hardly for the possession of the famous
fortress of the Chersonese. Singular, we

place, the last hero of Egypt on the pedestal
of public opinion, just as we take the hero
of the Peninsula down from his pedestal of
stone. Can satire go further ?

A world of gammon and spinach, my
masters, in which it is only the new lamps
that sell. An age of cant and humbug, in
which it is only the new culte that goes
down. iEstheticism has pretty well had
its day. Shall we resort to gladiatorial
exhibitions and the fierce sports of the
arena ? A man at bay for his life has
much attraction in the law courts, and to
see one of these miserable wrestle against
condemnation will cause much influx of silk
and satin to our modern arenas, and endless
applications to the Judge who has the disposal
of seats. The barbarian battling out
his life with the wild beast, or the murderer
contesting his existence with the hangman ;
is there much after all in this advanced
civilization we are so apt to brag about ?
Very little, I trow.

But to moralize is to bore. Reflections
on the past are of no more account than
regrets over the spilt milk, while speculations
on the future usually expose the prophet
to ridicule. Let us still continue to sing
Cock-a-cloodle-do ' to the amusement of
continental nations, and be duly thankful
that ten thousand Osmanli of the sort that
confronted the Eusse at Plena were not
behind the lines at Tel-el-Kebir instead of
the "light-footed" fellahs of the land of
the Pharaohs.

CHAPTER IV.

OLD COMRADES.

Buffeting her way slowly through the
waters of the Euxine, hardly yet apparently
settled down after the savage tempest of
St. Andrew's Day, was a small passenger
steamer, threading her course to that rugged
promontory, which, crowned by that Genoese
fort on its summit, was once more destined
to become famous in the history of Europe.
Since the days when Xenophon and his
Greeks escaped from Central Asia to take
refuge on the waters of the Black Sea, the
Chersonese had pretty well faded out of
the minds of Western Europe. Through
the long struggle of the nations against
Napoleon the Crimea had never been hinted

VOL. III. F

at as a battle-ground, but now all who cared
to read knew that a bitter quarrel, nominally
between the Osmanli and the Muscovite,
albeit in reality the stern protest of France
and England against the Russian eagles
entering Constantinople, was there to be
determined.

Standing on the bridge of the steamer
and peering through the scud and haze,
somewhat characteristic of Black Sea weather
in December, are Cis Calvert and his Fusilier
friend, Jerry Arkwright.

"There you are," exclaimed the latter;
"one can make it out distinctly now. There's
the old fort, and another two hours will
see us in Balaklava. Ha ! and there's the
old music."

And as he spoke, a low, sullen boom was
wafted across the seething waters, which
even Cis Calvert, whose ears were not
attuned to the melody, recognized as a
growling defiance from the leagued
fortress.

I suppose," said Cis, " that sound is
incessant ? "

"Well," replied Arkwright, "as you know,
I've been out of it since the Inkerman
business, but I don't think that there's
much firing done upon either side for the
present. We of course exchange a shot
or two at intervals just to show the fight is
not over, and we mean to be at them again
before long ; but you know, as far as we are
concerned, getting ammunition up to the
front is a very serious difficulty, and when
once got there, we can't afford to throw it
lightly away. As for our friends inside they
are simply defending their own arsenal, and.
probably have both unlimited guns and
ammunition, judging from what I saw before
I left and the awful reports that have comedown
from the front of late. I fancy just
at present they are leaving the wet and cold
of the winter to settle us. They may fairly
• argue, ' You can't get in, and half of you
won't be about when the spring comes." :

F 2

Cis gazed with rapt attention at the
grim, rugged cliffs as the steamer rapidly
closed upon her landfall. This, then, was
the scene of the famous duel, to join in
which he had made every sacrifice, and yet
did he but know it, even at this very
moment bitter tongues were busy at his
expense up in the Yorkshire wolds, as well
as in the sandy plains of the Deccan, marvelling
how any soldier could have resigned
his profession when his country was engaged
in the biggest war she had waged since
Napoleon's final downfall at Waterloo. It
was " hard lines," but the fates were against
Cis. He was innocent, but yet he persistently
appeared in the blackest colours to
his friends and acquaintances ; and moreover,
his hot temper had prompted him to
scant patience when he found men ready
to believe things to his detriment. Instead
of following Annie Aysgarth's advice and
living such scandal down, he had invariably
fled from it ; and though the mere fact that

he had volunteered for the Crimea, albeit he
had sold out in India, was quite sufficient
to clear his reputation in that respect, still
neither in York nor the Deccan was this
latter circumstance known. So far it had
never occurred to him what comment might
be made upon his abrupt retirement from
the Royal Dunbarss ; but this he did know,
that twice he had hurriedly left a regiment
on account of a great scandal. Was he
to clear all stain from his name before
Sebastopol ? Was the chance to be vouchsafed
to him ? Would he get employment of
any kind ? Surely, as Arkwright said, there
must be room and work for all who could
grasp a sabre. Still as they glided through
the narrow entrance of the land-locked
harbour of Balaklava, Cis could but reflect
sadly that he should shortly be shaking
hands with all his old comrades of the — th
Lancers and yet not be of them ; talking
to men whom he had known since he first
donned sword and spur, men who had

driven their horses through the death-ride
of the " Six Hundred' and that he was not
with them.

Calvert gazed with amazement as the
steamer crept into the berth allotted to her,
in that unfortunately little understand
chaos which Balaclava at that time presented.
Ships were packed close as herrings
in a cask, close as the yachts in the Granville
Basin at Dover previous to the race
week. Boats shot about in every direction
through the gloom, bearing the British
officer, clothed at that time principally in
hair and griminess, ravenous for food or
liquor, or anything that might mitigate the
monotony of salt pork and rum. It was
not of course so much that the things were
not there, although that was, perhaps, a
subject not to speak too confidently about,
but that nobody knew in which ship to
search for cargoes. What might be termed
quite the superfluities of life lay close along
the walls ; boots, warm clothing, and the

essentials layed far out, with no record of
their valuable freight to guide those on
shore only too anxious to come by such
thugs.

The two men were not long in making
their way on shore, and Arkwright speedily
ran across a young gentleman of his own
corps, who was down foraging, and who
promised to bring ponies to convey him,
Arkwright, and his bago-age to the front
next day. Striding through the mud, for
to pick your way in Balaclava would
have been quite a work of supererogation,
Arkwright led the way to Oppenheim's store
a philanthropist, who sold well at a price
pretty well everything that reached the
shores of the Crimea. You paid well —
why not ? Men had little to think about
but the keeping of soul and body together
in those days. The great ganglionic centre
becomes the god of our idolatry in such
times, and I'm afraid the possessor of a
couple of ducks would have been deemed

more desirable as a host than the greatest
humorist in the Crimean army. Half a
score of hands were stretched forth to welcome
Jerry Arkwright, a popular man, and
one who had been out from the beginning
till knocked over on that misty Inkerman
morning. Jerry, as may be supposed, had
a very large and numerous acquaintance ;
but with Cis it was different. The ex-lance
had by no means the catholic
acquaintance of the Fusilier. Big camps
did not exist in the pre-Crimean days, and
excepting in such places as Dublin, or it
may be Limerick, the cavalry by no means
saw so much of their infantry brethren as
they have done since ; but a big war, and
more especially when an army is destined to
be concentrated, as was the case with the
English in the Chersonese, of necessity
draws them closer together.

Suddenly a slight boyish figure, the gold
band of whose forage-cap bore tokens of
the wild, wet weather the allies had recently

experienced, pushed his way through the
throng. His uniform was not only frayed,
but bore, sad to say of a light dragoon,
unmistakable signs of patching and darning.
Though healthy, his face bore a
somewhat worn, haggard appearance, characteristic
of those who had gone through the
discipline of those first three months'
Crimean campaigning.

Cis Calvert, by all that's unfathomable !
Cis Calvert, by all that's glorious ! Good
Heavens ! old man, do let me shake hands
with you, if it is only to feel certain that it
is yourself and not your wraith that I am
speaking to. Good Lord ! Cis," continued
young Harperley, as he wrung his old
captain's hand, " why we all looked upon
you as in India, miles away, but of course
now you're coming back to take a turn with
the old corps ? "

"I only wish, Harry, that it may be so,"
replied Calvert sadly, " but you must know I
am no longer a soldier. It's too long a story

to tell now, but I came to worse grief in
India than I did at York. I left the Koyal
Dunbarss in a fit of anger. I was just as
wrongly accused of having a hand in a
racing robbery there as I was after that
miserable ride over the Crockley Hill Course
this time two years. In the first case, dear
old Copplestone and my brother officers
stood to me like men. Whatever any of you
might think about my quarrel with Crymes,
you all absolved me from any knowledge of
the Mumper's previous name and history.
In the Royal Dunbarss it was otherwise ;
they neither liked me nor I them. They at
once took part against me, and a sharp ten
minutes' interview with the imbecile who
commanded them resulted in an exchange
of shots on both sides that left so little
chance of cordiality again between us as
to make my leaving the regiment in some
shape almost a necessity. I was mad to be
with you all out here. It was misery to
think that my luck had thrown me out of the

dear old corps just before they were destined
to see service ; and when, Harry, I read the
glorious but terrible story of that day in
the valley of Balaclava the tears rained
from my eyes, not only for those whose
hands I should never clasp more, but also
to think that I had not been riding, stirrup
to stirrup, with all my dear old pals of the
last ten years in that supreme hour of grief
and gallantry."

Well, it was roughish, you know,"
rejoined the cornet, whose amazement at his
late captain's somewhat high-flown language
was visible in his face. He could not understand
it. Men engaged in the real frame of
war indulge very little in these sort of flights:
their talk is essentially curt and prosaic,
that is to say amongst our own people, who
are wont to feel ashamed of the Victoria
Cross when they have won it, and deprecate
nothing so much as an explanation of how
they obtained it. " We rode straight, Cis,
and we rode fast, though, upon my soul, we

can't take much credit for the latter. We
had to save those guns if we could, and
considering what a cross fire it was, a man
would have been pretty tired of life who
didn't bustle through it ; and when more
than half of us were down, and the
remainder of us all broken, the man who
had a horse under him and didn't hurry
back must simply have lost all his ideas."

You had a terrible ' return ' after the
fight," replied Cis, " but yet not quite so
bad as was the fate of some of the other
regiments in the Brigade. Poor Stratford,
I saw, was killed."

Yes," replied the cornet gravely, as his
voice sunk. " He was riding not six lengths
from me, and threw up his arms with a
shriek that I seem to hear even now and
again in the night-time, before he pitched
from his saddle. We brought him in next
day and buried him ; but the doctor said
he'd been shot clean through the heart, and
was probably dead ere be touched the

ground. Radcliffe too was awfully knocked
about — had indeed to be sent away — and has
not as yet come back to us ; while your old
opponent, the Major, rode as he did that
day when he led the field from Askham Bog
across the EufTord Drain to Red House. By
heavens ! Cis, he did terrible work during
that ride. Stern, hard, and relentless we
all knew him. His sabre was red to the
hilt when he saw our lines again, and there
must have been many a wail of woe from
beyond the steppes when the record of the
Major's savage handwriting was published."

Did he come through scatheless himself
V asked Cis.

No, indeed. He had three or four sword-wounds,
while his clothes were torn to
ribbons, and they at first talked of sending
him also down to Scutari, but he said
grimly that nothing ever hurt him, and he
would be d — d if he went except in a
coffin. You can't think what a clang-ed
man he is since out here. Few of us liked

him in the old days — few of us indeed knew
him. I assure you that he's now not only
quite popular, but is looked forward to
amongst the cavalry as one of the rising
men. But of course you're coming out to
see us all, and I suppose you'll hang on tous
at all events till something suitable turns
up?"

You forget, Harry," replied Calvert,
"that I am no longer a soldier. Until I
have got a berth of some sort I am simply a
useless incumbrance, a consumer of rations
which I can do nothing to earn, and from
all accounts rations are by no means too
plentiful."

That they ain't," replied Harry with a
grin. " We don't lose our temper because
there's no fish, nor turn up our noses at
anything as long as it's fresh in this country,
old man. You can either eat anything, or
nothing ; and in the latter case the sooner
you clear out the betters But, Cis, you're
not going to let that old Mumper story

prevent your taking a turn with us. The
whole truth came out before we left York,
and we all know now, including Crymes,
that you were the victim of a most craftily-concocted
plant. That old black horse had
been bought to perpetrate precisely the
fraud which he eventually did in your
name. The planners of this precious
robbery lost the Mumper owing to a compulsory
sale by the sheriff, but to 'their
great satisfaction suddenly discovered that
you meant to race him, and were consequently
going to play their game for them.
The manipulation of the betting market
was of course easy, and nothing could be
safer than to bet against a horse which they
knew they could disqualify should he chance
to win. To back the Cid and bet against
the Mumper were obviously their tactics.
They looked upon the race, as we all did,
as lying between the pair. Had the Cid
won they would have said nothing, but of
course when the Mumper came in first they

objected. Old Charrington found the whole
thing out two or three months after you
left, got hold of the name of the chief
actor in the rascally business, and then
communicated it all to Crymes. The
Major's turf lore stood you in good stead
there, Cis. He recognized the man at once,
and said, though it was a big thing to
say, he didn't believe there was a greater
scoundrel unhung. He had gone under a
score of aliases, and that he had evaded sofar
the clutches of the law only showed
what a cunning knave he was."

Well, thank heavens, my name stands
thoroughly clear in the eyes of all of you,
and I presume I may add in the eyes of the
Yorkshire people too 1 "

Bless your soul, yes. Old Charrington
wasn't the man not to send the story
around ; besides, Cis, you know you had
plenty of good friends, and my father
amongst them, who were only too glad when
they could refute the scandal against you."

Yes," rejoined Calvert, gravely ; " I am
glad that your father should know that I
was blameless in the matter. And Annie,
what of her 3 "

Why, you know she never held you
guilty any more than I ever did. Nothing
could have made either of us ever credit a
thing like that of you."

Bitterly did Cis now think of the complication
that had happened to him in the
Deccan. Almost at the same time that
Fortune was working for him, and, with the
assistance of his friends, clearing his name
in Yorkshire, his malignant star had plunged
him into a still more serious scrape in India.
Cis Calvert does not know it as yet, but in
the Madras Presidency that Mrs. Daventry
has left her husband is well known, and
it is generally believed in company with
Captain Calvert.

I have heard nothing of her or any of
you for so long that I felt almost afraid to
ask."

VOL. III. G

Why, good heavens ! surely you and
Annie correspond still. She said nothing
to me about you just at last, but of course
it is now months since I left home ; still I
always supposed that she heard regularly
from you."

No ; I suppose it is my fault. I can
only say that I did what I thought was
right. A man lying under such a stigma as
I did was not justified in holding a girl to
her troth."

Pooh !" rejoined Harry Harperley contemptuously,
" that is all cleared away now ;
besides, my sister is a girl in ten thousand,
grit to the tips of her fingers, and I fancy
you might have depended upon her sticking
to you if all that was hinted against you
had been really true."

All that story about Cis Calvert's flirtation
with Mrs. Daventry only reached Byculla
Grange just before the — th Lancers got
their route for the East. That it should
reach Miss Aysgartli's ear promptly was but

natural. There are always women who
never spare a sister in her agony. But
people generally are not given to hint that
a man's sister has been jilted before his face,
so that in the very few clays that elapsed
before the regiment left, it is no great
matter for astonishment that that Deccan
story should never have reached young
Harperley's ears. That a proud girl like
Annie Aysgarth would mention such a thing
in her letters to her brother was little likely.
She, who would have stood by him to the
last, had reluctantly come to the conclusion
that he loved her no longer. Had he done
so he would never have failed to answer her
letters. Infatuated by that Indian woman,
he had doubtless forgotten all about her.
All must be over henceforth between them.
After that last letter she could stoop to no
further overtures ; and yet there were
times when Annie Aysgarth, in the loyalty
of her love, wondered whether that story
she had heard at Byculla was really true,

G 2

or the result of Mrs. Charming-ton's " embroidery."
Anyway, it was months now
since she had heard anything of Cis, and
not only did she marvel much when she
should be destined to hear of him again,
but dreaded it too not a little.

Well, you see, it's a good bit since I left
India, and then I've been kicking about
wasting my time with those Bashi-Bazouks.
I thought they were safe to put those
beggars in the front, on the same principle
that our gallant allies yield the pas with
their Zouaves to les enfants perdus."

Ah, old man, I don't think our people
think as highly of Beatson's fellows as the
French do of their Zouaves. They've real
rum 'uns in their ranks, of all nations,
according to rumour ; but there's no doubt
they're real gluttons when it comes to
fighting, and they ask for nothing better
than to be put in the thick of it. But look
here, old man, you must come out and shake
hands with what's left of the old lot. I

shall come in tomorrow with a spare pony.
We'll meet you here at twelve and take you
out to lunch. You needn't come out ' a
watering for the flesh-pots.' Mitres are
what you call scarce with the bipeds, and as
for the horses, poor brutes, they literally
are, in the old showman's vernacular, a
gnawing of their tails for very hunger. And
now, good-bye. I've just collared a couple
of bottles of Oppenheim's particular. He's
right not to give it a more definite name,
because further than being d — d strong, I
should hesitate to put a name to it."

Cis and his friend Arkwright speedily
made their way back to their ship. Afternoon
closes in early in December, and the
majority of people in Balaclava had to make
their way up to the front ; and it was very
easy in those days to lose your way after
sundown, and spend hours wandering about
strange camps before finding your own.
All their fellow-passengers had landed and
dispersed, and the Fusilier and Cis passed a

very dull evening, broken only by the low
jabbering of strange tongues in the adjacent
vessels, for Babel was not more prolific in
languages than Balaclava at that time, and
the low, sullen boom from the besieged
fortress, which told that the Bastion de
Mat, or Sedan, still hurled defiance at the
foe.

"Well, Jerry," said Calvert, as he knocked
the ashes out of his pipe, " it's pretty dull
work here, even with you to talk to. You're
all right, will be amongst your own people
tomorrow, and no call to complain of idleness,
I'd dare swear ; but to live down hereon
board ship will just send me wild. If I
can't get employment in a few days I don't
know what I shall do."

Don't be a fool, Cis. Deuce a fear but
what the chance of being shot will be
speedily provided you, but your highness
can't come bustling up here and expect to
find a general's commission waiting for you
on the beach. Now, look here. Our chiefs

a regular brick, and I, in consequence of
my manifold virtues, naturally an eminent
favourite with him. I know, sad to say,
that the dear old corps is terribly short of
officers, and when I've told him your story
I feel pretty sure he will apply for you
as a volunteer. He stands well with the
authorities, and they are not likely to refuse
his request, and if you are not in the way
of your full share of kicks for the minimum
of half-pence, by the Lord I can only say
they've just awoke to the value of the
Fusiliers. There's been no disposition to
keep us in lavender so far. I'll see about it
as soon as ever I get up there, and if the
chief only says yes, shall come down and
fetch you up bodily the day after tomorrow.
You can live with me, you know, and comedown
and take a turn or two in the trenches
as an amateur until an appointment of some
sort is made out for you. And now it's
time to turn in, so good night."

Thanks no end, old man. By Jove, if

you can only manage that I'll ask no more.
Give me but that start, and T know the rest
is in my own hands," and the hand-grip Cis
exchanged with his chum was of that sort
that serves the Anglo-saxon so much better
than words in his emotional moments.

The next morning Arkwriffht took his
departure, and at noon young Harperley
duly kept his tryst at Oppenheim's with
Calvert, and the pair rode leisurely away
to the lines-of the Light Brigade, behind
Kadakoi. The cornet had already acquainted
his brother officers with Cis's presence in the
Crimea and his reason for it, consequently
there was quite a crowd to welcome him in
what was not the mess tent, for in that
gloomy winter no regiment indulged in such
a luxury, but a sort of lounging tent, where
the — th Lancers met to gossip, smoke, and
drink their ration rum, or whatever other
potable they might come by. Foremost to
welcome him was stalwart old Copplestone.

Ah, Calvert, my boy," exclaimed the

Colonel, " if I'd only guessed the work
before us, I'd never have let you leave us ;
not that I've any complaint to make against
your substitute, but I'm fond of the whelps
of my own rearing."

And then the others crowded round him,
shook him heartily by the hand, whilst they
murmured their regrets that he was no
Ion o'er anion est them. And then the talk
fell into that grave, earnest mood to which
it at times gravitates in such scenes, when
men have to recall for the benefit of some
new-comer how So-and-so pride an end of
it. Cis had to listen once more to the story
of poor Strangford's death, and that of half
a score more in his own or other dragoon
reo-intents with whom he had lived on terms
of the closest intimacy. There is an ever-growing
callousness in all campaigning, but
still men speak sadly, and with bated breath,
of their comrades who perished in the strife.
It was at this juncture Crymes entered the
tent. Fur a moment Cis looked embarrassed.

He could not but remember that day when
he had to humble himself before the Major,
and apologize for his too reckless tongue ;
but Crymes grasped the situation with his
accustomed sangfroid, and extending his
hand said, —

Will you shake hands with me, Calvert ?
It is my turn to apologize now, for I plead
guilty to having wronged you, though only
in thought, I went no further. The whole
miserable business, as I am aware Harperley
has told you, was all cleared up very shortly
after you left. There is plenty of scope for
quarrelling out here without quarrelling
with one another. Ah ! " he continued, with
a faint smile, as Cis cordially responded to
his overture of amity, " we wanted you and
hundreds more of you the day they sent us
up the valley yonder," and here the Major
jerked his head in the direction of the valley
of Balaclava. " It was as lively while it
lasted as anything we ever had with the
York and Ainsty, and the worst of it is it

was all a blunder, It's little use wrangling
about whose, but there was a sore loss of
light dragoons, without any corresponding
result that day ; in fact, except myself, I
don't know any one who got much satisfaction
out of it."

"You, Major," exclaimed young Har-parley
; " why, except that clip on your
head, and I don't know how many more
disagreeable prods about you generally, I
can't for the life of me see what you
got out of it."

Listen, young 'un," replied Crymes, asa
slightly ironical smile played over his face :
I'm a horrible pagan, I'm afraid, and, sad
to say, my gladiatorial instincts have led
me ever since I became a dragoon to wish
for my wicked will with my sabre for half-an-hour.
Well, they let us loose that day,
though I only wish it had been with more
purpose."

It's bad for the other side," muttered
young Harperley, "when the Major gets

his wicked will with his sabre, that's all I
can say."

And now, Calvert," continued Crymes,
what are you going to do ? I'm sure the
Colonel, like all the rest of us, will be glad
if you elect to take a turn once more with
us."

You're all very good," rejoined Cis,
but the fact is I came up with Jerry
Arkwright of the — th Fusiliers, and he
has promised to get me attached to them if
possible. You see they're at the front,"
continued Cis, half apologetically.

"And we're not," broke in Crymes,
sharply. "You're quite right, Calvert;
there's not likely to be anything for us to do,
unless it's bury our horses, until the place
is taken, and if I know anything about it
that won't be for some months yet. No, the
infantry fellows are likely to gather all the
laurels that are going for the present. You'll
see fighting with the Fusiliers deuce a fear
before long. I half envy you your chance,

as I'm sure it offers the best opportunity of
seeing service."

A little more desultory conversation with
his brother officers, and then Cis made his
way back to Balaclava on foot, there to
wait on board ship till he heard what Jerry
Arkwright had managed to do for him.

CHAPTER V.

THE REAL THING AT LAST.

Cis Calvert was not destined to remain
long in suspense, for the next day brought
not a note, but Jerry Arkwright himself.

It's al] right, old man," he exclaimed,
the minute he gained the deck. "I've
brought down the ponies ; pack up your
traps, and as soon as I have collared a
ham we'll make the best of our way to the
front. The chief's a trump, as he always
is. ' Captain Calvert ! ' he exclaimed ; ' yes, I
know him by name. Not a bad sort, considering
he's only a cavalry man so I've
heard ; with rather less side and a trifle
less wax in his moustache than those fellows

generally affect. However, the beggars rode
straight the other day there's no denying,
and I should think, like the rest of us, are
more concerned about filling their mouths
than twisting their moustaches. We are
awfully short-handed in officers, and a fellow
who's come ail the way from India to take
his share in the fighting don't deserve to
be disappointed. I'll apply for him at once.
Go down to Balaclava and tell him so yourself,
and that he'd better come up here at
once and employ himself in learning his
way about the ditches, till I receive an
acting commission for him from headquarters.'
So now, old man, as soon as
ever you get your traps collected meet meat
Oppenheim's. I shall have got the ham
by that time I hope, for my two subalterns
will be both savage and grumpy if I don't
come back with that at my saddle-bow."

A dull, black, drear)' time was this in
which Cis Calvert was about to commence
his campaigning experiences. The Chersonese,

or at all events that corner occupied
by the allies, was a sea of mud, and for the
half-starved animals, insufficient as they
were in number, to carry the food absolutely
necessary to the front was an impossibility.
That regiments should sometimes be a day
without rations was a contingency scarce
possible to provide against. That they
should have now and again, in rough
military metaphor, " to eat their cartridges,"
is an experience common to all campaigns
j but that the commissariat, which
during forty years of peace had faded
away into almost the shade of a service,
when suddenly called upon to resuscitate
itself and perform the most arduous duties,
should fail, was surely only what might
have been expected. "Whether it is in a
more satisfactory state at the present is, I
fancy, open to question, and the glories of
Egypt somewhat testify to their shortcomings
in that respect.

The capture of that ham apparently

proved more difficult than Jerry had anticipated,
or else his active mind had aspired
to the attainment of further luxuries, for it
was not till considerably past the hour of
tryst that Arkvvright made his appearance.

Here, out with the ponies, quick, Mike,"
exclaimed the Fusilier. " There's a fellow
just told me there's a beastly Black Sea fog
rolling down over the monastery, and, by
Jove, if we're caught in that we shall be
bothered to pick our way home. The roads,
my boy, are very imperfectly defined in
these parts, and you're off them and into
a kitchen, hut, or stable before you know
where you are. There's a monotony too
about our architecture that's puzzling. The
over-grown umbrella under which I live is
exactly like your or any one else's umbrella ;
and we've no time to go into high art in
the shape of fancy paintings with which
to distinguish them one from another.
But here comes Mike with the ponies. If
you think, just because it's only seven or

VOL. III. H

eight miles, we can canter it in forty minutes
you'll be speedily undeceived. There, that's
your mount. Don't turn your nose up
because he's only thirteen two and you can
see his ribs. We call them in pretty good
condition out here when you can't see clean
through 'em. Now that animal," continued
Jerry with a wink, as he swung himself
into his saddle, " could about do his seven
miles in an hour and a half on Newmarket
Heath, but I fancy he'll be nearer three
than two carrying you up to camp."

There was a very great deal more earnest
than jest in Jerry Arkwright's chaff. The
poor half starved " gardens " that were at
that time slaves of the regimental officers
or the commissariat, could go little faster
than at a foot's pace through the sea of mud
it was their daily lot to travel. Nothing
but the rare strain of Barb blood in their
veins pulled through the survivors ; and
about the poor brutes that perished over
that weary seven miles the spring, when it

came drying up the mud and bringing forth
the primroses, made terrible revelations ;
grimmer revelations yet came to light too
with the violets over the scrub-clothed
slopes of Inkerman and the blood-stained
turf in Balaclava valley ; for there was
exposed many a poor fragment of wrecked
humanity, sacrifices to the grim Moloch of
war, who had perished uncoffined,unannealed.
Jerry's prophetic friend unfortunately
proved to have forecast the weather only
too accurately. Before they had got a couple
of miles out of Balaclava the white, misty
Black Sea fog began to envelope them. As
long as they kept the main causeway this
was of little consequence. The poor ponies
no doubt were over their fetlocks in mud ;
the road was full of holes, which would
probably have settled the springs of the
strongest built provincial carriage that ever
ran in England in about a quarter of an
hour ; but still it was a road, and was useful
insomuch as it kept them in their straight

H 2

path to the front. But shortly after leaving
Kadakoi came the place beyond which the
road had not been carried, and where the
trails — I can use no other word for them —
diverged in different directions across the
plateau to the various divisional camps.
And now their difficulties began. To follow
these trails with plenty of light, when one
could take note of the surrounding landmarks,
was of course not difficult, but when
verging on sundown, and enveloped in a
Black Sea for which, though never attaining
the density of that sulphurous, impenetrable
vapour that in winter time enshrouds
our own metropolis, it became embarrassing
even to men who, like Arkwright and his
henchman, were conversant with every yard
of the ground.

"We are off the line, Mike," suddenly
exclaimed Arkwright, as he pulled up his
pony. "Where the deuce we have got to
Fm blessed if I know. We surely ought to
have passed in rear of the left attack siege

train before this, but we not only don't see
that but not a sign of tents of any kind.
A horrible suspicion has come over me that
we've wandered up the wrong side of the
ravine. Just where it begins, you know,
it's a mere gentle dip there, and very
easy to make a mistake about. If so
the first thing we shall strike will bethe
French lines. What do you think,
Mike?"

Well, yer honour, it's just my opinion
we've lost our way."

"As if there was any doubt about that,
you idiot," rejoined Jerry, laughing; "but
where do you think we are ? "

Upon my soul I don't know ; but sure
av we continue our wanderings we'll hit lines
of some soit — our own, the French, or it
may be the t'other peoples'. Anyhow ita
mighty mane night to lie out in the open.
The boys '11 have a bad time to-night of it
in the trenches."

Well," said Arkwright a little petulantly,

there's not much chance of getting a hint
what's to be done out of you."

'Deed, Captain, I know my place better.
Is it for the likes of me to presume to bethinking
what's best to be done when yer
honour's to the fore ? "

"Well, there is something in his philosophy
after all." said Arkwright. " It's an ugly
night to lie out, and we must come across
lines of some sort at last, and they'll give
us shelter if they can't give us supper."

Once more the trio proceeded to blunder
alon through the mist, and after another
fifteen minutes' riding Arkwright suddenly
exclaimed :—

Come, we're close upon tents of some
kind."

The words were scarcely out of his lips
when the sharp rattle of a firelock as it
came down to the charge, was followed by
the " Qui Vive ! "

Ami, officier Anglais," rejoined Arkwright
hurriedly. " French, by Jove, Cis,"

he continued, "and there's no time to be
lost answering these fellows, they let go
upon monstrous slight provocation."

The result of this exchange of civilities
was a polyglot and somewhat incomprehensible
conversation, in which French, English,
and Mike's Milesian brogue alternately
mingled. At last the sentry passed the
word for his officer, who it so happened had
a slight smattering of English, and between
his smattering and Arkwright's similar
smattering of French, they at last ascertained
that they had w T wandered into the
lines of the Chasseurs d'Afrique, having, as
Jerry had shrewdly conjectured, diverged to
the left of the ravine instead of to the right,
which they ought to have done shortly after
passing Kadakoi ; but that this was the
camp of the Chasseurs d'Afrique to an old
hand like Arkwright was explanation of
where they were. Thanking the French
officer he bade him a courteous good night ;
and then turning to Calvert exclaimed, —

It's deuced awkward, Cis, but we've got
all away to our left, and shall have to cross
the ravine close by the Naval Brigade camp.
Hitting off the road there will be uncommon
awkward in this sort of light, and it's
rather a queer place to get the ponies down
if we miss it. Once pass that and it is
pretty plain sailing. I shall know my way
then."

But the hitting off of the edge of the
ravine proved by no means an easy matter,
and again and again did Arkwright come to
the conclusion that they had once more lost
their way, and that they had by no means
come the straightest path to where they
were aiming for was more than probable.

Here's the ravine just to our right,
glory be to God !" suddenly said Mike, " but
it's a mighty quare place we've hit it off at.
It'll be as well, Captain, to they for the road
before attempting to get down."

But ride up and down the ravine in either
direction much as they liked they could

discover no signs of a pathway leading to
the bottom. The zigzag descent could only
be designated as a mountain track, and was
consequently not quite so easy to discover
as a turnpike road. Now except here and
there the descent was by no means precipitous
— an awkward place to ride down
no doubt, but with one of the barefooted
Turkish ponies in broad daylight by no
means a desperate undertaking. The difficulty
at present consisted in picking your
way. The party could see so very few
yards ahead of them that they might be
selecting one of the almost impracticable
places.

It's awkward, Cis," exclaimed Arkwright,
"but we can't spend the night looking for
this confounded path. We must get off
and lead down, and if destined to tumbledown
trust to not being broke in the process.
I'll give you a lead," and so saying
Jerry Arkwright swung himself off his pony
and slipped the bridle through his arm.

"Mike, you scoundrel," he added, "to break
your own neck you're quite at liberty, but
remember you're in charge of the commissariat,
and the breaking of a bottle
represents a general court-martial. Now,
come on. The trenches, old man, are not
half so dangerous as this."

Their descent was slow, and could most
decidedly not be deemed wanting in interest.
There was either a man or a pony down
every few yards, still they had achieved
what Arkwright and Mike deemed about
two-thirds of the descent, when suddenly
Arkwright's pony placed its foot upon something
which gave way with him, pitched
forwards on its head, and rolled heavily
down the ravine.

"Hold hard," cried Arkwright, as a hideous
exhalation spread around them, " bear a
little to the left ; I know where we are
now. "We are right opposite the Naval
Brigade, and have 2fot amongst that mass of
corruption which once were horses. Well

to your left, Cis," lie shouted again. " Weare
really very few yards off the path, and
though we have achieved that bit of knowledge
too late to be of much good to us in
getting down, it will be very useful to us in
getting up the other side. I wonder how I
shall find poor old Sambo when I get to the
bottom. One comfort is, a Turkish pony
takes a deal of killing."

On arriving at the bottom the wiry little
steed was found shaking his head in a
somewhat aggrieved fashion, and looking

CO ' o

disconsolately round for his companions,
and apparently very little the worse for his
roll ; barring a broken bridle there was really
no great harm done, and to knot that was
of course the work of only two or three
minutes. The ascending path the opposite
side was easily hit off, and after passing
through the Naval Brigade camp, now that
they had got their bearings the way to the
second division was plain sailing.

And now," said Arkwright, as they

handed their ponies over to the batman,
come across and let me introduce you to
the chief. He's as good a fellow as ever
lived ; but if there's one thing would make
him edgy it would be an addition to the
ranks of the battalion without his knowledge.
He's about right too. Short-handed
as we are now, a colonel ought to know the
whereabouts of even an available drummer."

Colonel Hamilton welcomed Cis with all
that camaraderie which I verily believe is
only known in the services, and perhaps
never even then so thoroughly seen as when
they are face to face with the "real thing."

Known you by name, Captain Calvert,
for some time. A man who having sold
out volunteers to come here is worth
having ; and at Arkwrigkt's suggestion I
had great pleasure in applying for an acting
commission for you. I have no doubt I
shall get it, and in the mean time I'm sure
all my officers will have much pleasure in
showing you the ropes, and of course if you

like to take a turn or two with us in the
trenches pending your appointment you
will familiarize yourself with what is rather
an intricate country to a new-comer. However,
you've had a long ride up from the
front, and I've no doubt will be glad of
something to eat as soon as you can sjefc it.
I can only say I shall be very pleased to have
you with us, and leave you for the present
to Arkwright's care."

A queer feeling was that first night at
the front in that dismal winter in '54. It
was the chances were so utterly different
from what people pictured it. Imagination
led one to conjure up in their mind's eye
incessant salvoes of artillery, the continual
whizzing of rockets, and an incessant spattering
of musketry. But from the failure
of the October bombardment to the springtime,
barring the episodes of Balaclava and
Inkerman, both besieged and besiegers confined
themselves to the sullen defiance of an
occasional shot or two, that is, as far as the

artillery duel went. True the Russians
ever and anon beat up the trenches of the
allies in right reckless, resolute fashion, and
when the crash of musketry was heard in
the nighttime all Crimean men knew there
was a sharp and wicked bit of fighting
going on somewhere along the line. There
was a noted leader of these sorties well
known by sight to the Second and Light
Divisions, for the trenches at the right
attack seemed to constitute this hero's
happy hunting-ground, a tall, dark, daring
fellow, clad in Albanian costume ; he was
a marked man both from his dress and
gallantry. And when he eventually fell
with his face to the foe in one of his
dashing assaults there was a feeling of relief
amongst those eno;ao;ed in that attack, and
a conviction that they were well rid of a
most dangerous assailant. But the dull,
depressing monotony of trench duty at that
time was almost inconceivable. Sitting for
hours in a cold wet ditch, waiting for

something which did not take place, is about
the only simile one can give of it. No
doubt every now and then, as I have just
said, the Muscovite would make things
lively enough for the most exigeant fire-eater.
Men might have no special gluttony
for fighting, nor have any greater love for
"villainous saltpetre" than Bob Acres, but
there is a monotony connected with all big
sieges which languish wont to make even
those with very little stomach for fighting
long for something that should break the
dull daily routine.

The next night found the Fusiliers in
order for the trenches, and as Arkwright
said —

There is no more fighting about it, Cis,
than there will be in camp, and it's a little
more damp and disagreeable ; but I think,
old man, it would be good policy to follow
the chiefs tip, and just have a look round
the blessed ditches were taking care of."

Of course," replied Calvert, " a man

don't come out here as a volunteer unless
he means work, and of course when anything
does happen a man ignorant of the
ground can be of comparatively little use."

All right, then down you come with me
to-night and study the ways and windings
of the trenches."

A dull, grey evening. The sun had sunk
to rest some two or three hours before the
trench guards paraded on one of well-nigh
the shortest days in the year. Clothed in
their worn, grey, patched overcoats and
common fur caps, there was a marvellous
similarity about the British soldier of those
times. All distinction of regiment seemed
lost, and it really was by no means impossible
for an officer strange to these haggard,
half-starved bands to mistake the one for
the other. And this was precisely what
happened to Calvert, as with half a score
more of what were called the covering
parties, he threaded his way to that mystic
ground pictured in England a scene of

romance, in reality the dull scene of prosaic
suffering.

Scenery, romance, ay ! scene of bitter
misery to many thousands of miles off, if
one can be allowed the expression. One, I
recollect, who fell in that last grisly struggle
which terminated in the triumph of the
allies, and the general orders of the night
contained unwittingly the ghastly mockery,

Captain , of the Connaught Dangers,

has leave of absence to England from the
eighth of September, 1855, pending his
retirement from the service. 7 ' His leave had
come, but lying cold and stark in front of
the great Redan, his lifeless face turned
skywards, little wrecked he of leave or
license at Her Majesty's hands. Dead ; with
his face to the foe, and cheering on the
company he had long commanded, he had
gone down like scores of others that bitter
day. It was hard, after enduring all the
chances of the campaign. He retired from
the army at his mother's urgent request ; he

YoL. ill. 1

was the only son of his mother, and she
was a widow." For her sake he resigned
his profession ; it was the very irony of fate
that rendered it forty-eight hours too late.

But to return to Cis Calvert and the
Fusiliers. As they wend their way to the
trenches the different parties, as may be
easily imagined, got *a little entangled as
they made their way to their different
positions. To the old hands this was of
course nothing, but to a neophyte like Cis
Calvert it proved unexpectedly embarrassing.
As before said, there was nothing to distinguish
one regiment from another in their
attire ; it was pretty dark, and even had it
been light Cis of course could know none of
his new comrades by sight. Getting somewhat
uneasy at last, he suddenly addressed
the man next to him, exclaiming, —

You belong to the — th Fusiliers, my
lad, don't you ? "

Nae, nae, sir. You roost gotten against
the Icelanders this time ; but if you're

seeking your way into Sebastopol, if ye'll
gang our gate ye'll get as near as is possible
the noo I'm thinking."

For a few minutes Calvert's sensations
were unpleasant in the extreme. He had
lost his party, and after the terrible " hard
lines " that seemed to dog his career, was
horrified at what construction might be
put on it. A man going under fire for the
first time being suddenly discovered missing
certainly runs the risk of being hardly
judged by those associated with him. He
had no fear of Arkwright conceiving an
unfavourable opinion, but Cis had served
too long not to know how terribly such a
thing might be misconstrued by the men of
the regiment. With the British soldier to
have the faintest doubt of his officer being
genuine "grit" is fatal. He can forgive
incompetence, harsh treatment, or abuse,
but the man who flinches himself he will
never trust to.

Do you remember that famous Indian

I 2

story of that stern and rigid disciplinarian
who commanded one of Her Majesty's
regiments, and being perfectly aware of
his own unpopularity thus addressed his
soldiers. It was, I think, before the storming
of the Sikh entrenchments at Sobraon.

"Men," he exclaimed, "you don't like
me, I know, because I keep your necks
pretty tight to the collar. I've even heard
it hinted that I run a chance of being shot
down by my own people the first time I
lead them into action. I don't believe
there's such a cur amongst you, but if there
is, lie's going to have his chance now, only
mark me, by God, I recommend him not todo
it this time. We're in a pretty tight
place, and there's no one but me to get you
out of it."

It flashed across Cis Calvert's mind at the
present moment that not only were all these
men new to him, but that he was coming
into the regiment by what might be denominated
a side door. He was not getting his

commission in the usual order of things,
but receiving a mere acting lieutenancy
pending official confirmation from home.
He hadn't even got that as yet, and to be
suspected of shirking on this his first night
of soldiering with his new corps would, he
knew, take a lot of living down. His
anxiety was so obvious that the rugged old
Highland Serjeant whom he had addressed
noticed it and remarked —

Diana be fashed, sir. Ye'll be new to
the work I reckon, but well soon pass ye
along to the Fusiliers the once w r e get doom"

The grim old Scotchman spoke truth.
Once they had gained the trenches Cis
found very little difficulty in discovering
Jerry Arkwrigkt and his following.

A duller, drearier, more monotonous
night than this promised to be perhaps the
"covering parties " never looked out upon.
Still it was all new to Cis, and it was with
no little interest that, leaning his elbows
upon the parapet of the advanced trench,

he peered through the murk at the dim
outline of the great Sedan and the long
line of earthworks that connected it
with the Malakoff Tower. Little to be
seen — but he was gazing, it must be
remembered, as men did who found themselves
face to face for the first time with
the famous fortress. It is an old world
story now, but in those days people had
been reading the thrilling stories of Inkerman
and Balaclava, mixed with the half-pathetic,
half-humorous stories of Crimean
camp life for weeks and weeks, and curiosity
concerning it ran very high.

Not a shot, not a sound, save ever and
anon a dull, monotonous roar, that presaged
the shower of grape that every fifteen
minutes, as if regulated by a stop watch,
the Russians sent up the "Woronzoff road :
terribly jealous ever was the Muscovite of
that joint in his armour, albeit by no means
a weak one. Still, quiet as the evening
had begun, no old trench-goer would have

augured that it might finish in that wise.
The storms of the trenches, like the white
squalls of the Mediterranean, gave slight
warning of their approach, and just as even
the experienced mariner has occasionally
bare time to close reef his topsails, so those
who kept the trenches had scant time to
spring to their feet and snatch at their arms
before the foe was upon them.

They look like leaving us to smoke our
pipes in peace to-night," said Arkwright,
but one can never be quite sure here, Cis.
An ominous calm is of course often the
presage of no end of a row down here," and
even as he spoke the Flagstaff Battery faraway
to the left broke out into angry
violence, and the fierce angry flashes of its
guns showed that the Russians and the
French were differing violently in opinion.
Another moment and the quick crack of
musketry broke upon the ear, but the
distance was too far for the cries of the
combatants to reach their ears. " Hottish

work on the extreme French left," continued
Arkwriglit, "though which side is making
the sortie it is impossible to conjecture."

Suddenly from out of the darkness
cracked the rifles of the advanced sentries,
followed by a wild yell from the Russians
as they chased those flying scouts pell-mell
over the parapet.

Stand to your arms," thundered Arkwright,
and the hoarse cry echoed from end
to end of the right attack. " The Albanian,
by heavens ! " exclaimed Arkwriglit, as
through the mist dashed a tall, dark, handsome
man, waving a sabre, habited in
broidered fez and the snowy picturesque
kilt of his countrymen.

Another moment and the grey-coated,
flat-capped Russians were engaged in a
hand-to-hand struggle with their English
foes. There was little shouting now; fierce,
smothered execrations and savage bayonet
thrusts, mingling with the occasional crack
of musket or revolver, alone marked such

stern contention as now went on in the
advance parallel. That the bayonet is ever
in use in large battles may perhaps be a
question, but there can be no doubt about
it in the storming of entrenchments.
Through the whirlwind of the carnage
the Albanian flashed like a meteor, and
gallantly did the stubborn soldiers behind
him respond to his lead. Wildly did
Arkwright fight his way through the melee
towards this gaily habited chief, but the
result of a furious blow dealt on the
shoulder of an old Muscovite grenadier
apparently did that grim warrior no harm,
while Jerry's foot slipping in its delivery, he
rolled over on his back in the mud. No
matter to laugh at, absurd though it may
sound, for shortening his firelock, the veteran
would probably have closed Arkwright' s
account in this world with a bayonet thrust ;
but ere he could use it Calvert's revolver
rang sharp and true, and the Russian fell
face forward across his intended victim.

Cis had craved to see " the real thing,"
and was so far in luck. There was certainly
no nonsense about his first experience intrench
duty. The Russe had come on in
earnest that night, with the fixed intention
of scouring the trenches and spiking every
gun in the third parallel ; and if the fighting
was destined to be short, as it usually was
in these cases, there was no mistake about
its being sharp while it lasted. The fierce,
murderous instinct latent in all men, the
savage lust of carnage, was now thoroughly
aroused in Cis. Unheeding such wounds as
fell to his share, he had now lost pretty well
all feeling but the desire to kill, and it was in
this mood that, amid the fierce imprecations
which fell from the lips of his followers, the
Fusiliers, he found himself with the blood
streaming down his cheek face to face with
the Albanian. War is not made with rosewater,
and the twain struck at each other
at once. Again the blood poured down
Cis's face in response to a back-handed

stroke of his adversary's sabre. Reeling
back he half mechanically parried another
furious cut of the Albanian's, and with his
left hand fired his revolver, which luckily
had yet a chamber unemptiecl, and the
Muscovite leader dropped in his tracks like
a stricken deer. His followers seemed to
lose all heart at his fall, and a few more
minutes saw the Russians once more scrambling
over the parapet in the direction of
their own lines.

And then there was time to count up
the cost, and see who would never again
answer to their names at muster. One of
the first to gain his feet was Jerry Arkwright,
who, after a few muttered maledictions
at the frivolous weapon supplied
to their customers by army tailors, fell in
his men, and proceeded to that grim
sequel of battle — the calling of the roll.
Some half-a-dozen killed and a score of
men more or less wounded constituted the
casualties of the Fusiliers, and then it

occurred to Arkwright what had become
of Cis Calvert.

Who knows anything about the gentleman
who came down to us as a volunteer ?
What's become of Mr. Calvert, does anyone
know ? He was talking to me when
the attack began."

The) 're a bringing him along now, sir,"
replied a tough old corporal, who was busily
engaged in staunching the blood which
flowed from more than one reminiscence of
the evening's fight. " 'Twas he shot down
the white petticoated fellow that led them
just before he fell himself. There was a
pretty bit of hammer and tongs work
between them before they both went down ;
but here they come, and the doctor with
them."

Anxiously Arkwright hurried forward to
learn his friend's fate, and it was with no
little relief that he heard the surgeon's
cheery verdict of —

"All right; a bit knocked about, lust a

little more blood than's good for him, and
hasn't quite come to himself as yet, hut
there's no real harm done. As for the
white-kilted fellow who led our opponents,
he'll trouble us no more. You've been
away of late, Arkwright, and don't quite
know what that means ; but that man," and
he pointed down at the dark face of the
Albanian, now set calm and immovable in
death, " was a soldier every inch, and one
of the most dashing leaders they had.
There'll be quieter times for the right attack
now he is gone, poor fellow."

CHAPTER VI.

A LETTER FROM THE CRIMEA.

At last England had realized the fact
that after the long peace she was once more
committed to a European war. The country
hardly realized it at first. Dumb with the
exultation of the dashing victory of the
Alma, it was only those who had to make
moan over their dead who thoroughly realized
the cost of the game they were engaged in.
But the triumph of the Alma was speedily
followed by the fierce struggle of Inkerman,
and though that might be called a victory,
yet it was evident to all that such costly
glories as these were little better than
defeats. Through the house of the peer, as
well as the cottage of the peasant, the story

of that terrible Sunday morning sent a wail
of despair. The nation at last understood
that a struggle with the Muscovite meant
a good deal more than the clans; of bells,
cheers, fireworks, laurels, and salutes. And
now slowly commenced to leak out the grim
story of the misery and suffering of the
army before Sebastopol ; how that they
were more besieged than besieging ; how
that they were perishing by hundreds, not
from shot and shell, but from cold, wet,
hunger, and exposure ; from lack of clothing,
from want of tents. — from want, in
short, of the bare necessities of life.

Then England turned in her wrath, after
the manner of the old Athenians, with the
savage disposition to throw these shortcomings
on some one, and to rend him there
and then. But what would you have ?
Sift the thing as you might it was no one's
fault in particular ; it is simply the error
that exists to this hour of believing that
organization can be done at the last moment.

A country that declines the expense of maintaining
a commissariat and transport staff intimes
of peace cannot be astonished at finding
that they are not to be improvised at
the last moment. Men are no more made
organizers than they are poets or roasters,
and that a scanty staff, to whom no practice
has been vouchsafed, should display want of
knowledge of their vocation should excite
surprise in no one. But the nation did
not understand this, and after the manner
of a great constitutional country, hungrily
demanded a victim. However, since the
days when we shot an admiral, we have
usually confined ourselves to clamouring for
the culprit, a matter in which we have
certainly shown more wisdom and discretion
than our gallant allies of the Crimean days,
who during the time of their own revolution
not only demanded that some one should
suffer for shortcomings, but took remarkably
good care that a good many did.

That all this story of muddle and misery

should make a great impression in Yorkshire
is needless to say. When the Charringtons,
Mr. Harperley, Miss Aysgarth, and others,
read the tale of Balaclava their hearts stood
still, and they felt a strange sensation of
choking in their throats. It was natural.
Some four or five careless young fellows,
who only a few months ago had been
hunting, dancing, and laughing with them,
were gone, and they should see them no
more, and though Harry Harperley was as
yet unscathed, yet every one saw now that
there was many another life to be forfeited
before the quarrel between Eussia and the
Western Powers was to be brought to a
conclusion. Harry was a fair correspondent
as things went, but writing letters on your
knees with chilled fingers, in a soppy bell
tent, is a performance that requires some
fortitude. At the best of times the British
subaltern is not a prolific correspondent.
Observation tends to show that, except with
reference to ways and means, he regards

VOL. III.

letter writing as a somewhat frivolous waste
of time. They were certainly so far justified,
insomuch as there was nothing satisfactory
to tell. They were having " hard lines,"
and like the Anglo-saxon generally were
doggedly making the best of it. " This
thing has got to be soldered out, and of
course we shall pull through in the end, but
life at present ain't all ' beer and skittles,' ' :
was pretty much the language in which
most of these young philosophers would
have summed up the situation. However,
one February morning a letter, with the
well-known Crimean post-mark, came, as a
friend of mine used to describe it in those
troublous times, " like a thirteen-inch shell'"
Miss Aysgarth pounced upon it at once,
while her father looking across at her,
said,

"Thank God, at all events our boy is all
right. Tell me what he says as soon as
you have made it out."

"Light Brigade Lines, Camp before Sebastopol.

Dearest Axxie,

You and the dear old father like
to hear, and so like the exemplary son and
brother that I am I write, although I have
nothing to say. I remember in my schoolboy
days perusing, probably under compulsion,
in the works of some great authority ,
that when a man had nothing to say he
most distinctly had better not write, but if
I wait for that, judging from appearances,
you wouldn't hear from me for some time.
We neither get on or go on ; we don't even
keep pegging away. As for us horse-soldiers
we seem well out of it for the present, and
indeed till they get some more of us out
the picket work up the valley is about as
much as we're fit for. We are not only
terribly short of men, but if anything even
worse off for horses. It's cold, and there's
no doubt those poor fellows in the front
must be having a pretty rough time of it ;
but although we are told that the Czar
relies upon Generals January, February, and
March, I can't help thinking we're through

E 2

the worst. A few weeks and we shall come
to spring weather, and the springs here weare
told are not of the bleak pattern that
we are accustomed to on the Yorkshire
wolds. Lots of reinforcements too are all
ready to come along. The 10th Hussars
and the 12th Lancers are on their way from
India. Strong regiments both, and we are
told that their Arabs will stand this work
much better than our big horses. One
thing is certain, — the Turkish ponies will
pick up a living where an English thoroughbred
would starve.

Now I have a bit of news for you.
Who do you think turned up here a few
weeks back ? No other than Cis Calvert !
It seems he quarrelled with his Colonel in
India, sold out of the Koyal Dunbarss all
in a hurry, and then came out here as a
volunteer ; and for once, Annie, his luck
really seems to have changed. He got
attached to the — th Fusiliers, threw in fora
rattling sortie his first night in the
trenches, had the luck to shoot down the
Eussian leader, and, in fact, generally distinguished
himself. He got knocked about

a bit, but there is no real harm done, and
the Fusiliers are uncommon proud of their
new recruit, dear old Cis, the very best of
all our lot, and that's a big word. The
Colonel said only the other day when he
heard the trench story, ' We must have him
back again as soon as he gets his company
and promotion, Annie, runs pretty quick
amongst us all now. Thanks to old harrington,
we of course all know the true
story of that luckless business on Crockley
Hill. Crymes made up with Calvert the
minute he saw him, saying he felt that he
owed Cis an apology on his side, although
in his ignorance he could hardly have acted
differently from the way he did. I never
felt half so jolly about anything in my life
as when, having heard of his exploit, I
rode up to the front and found he was
not seriously broke. He will doubtless
experience plenty of opportunities before
we get inside.

By the way, the Fusiliers had a good
story going the day I was in their lines, of
which Arkwright was the narrator. They had
a court-martial it seems on a man for what

was supposed to be an attempt at desertion.
The joke consists in the absurd wording
of the charge. The man was arraigned
for attempting to enter Sebastopol,' a thing
we have been all trying to do for the last
four months ! Good-bye. Tell the father
he'll have to rig me out all again in horseflesh,
as my sole surviving equine anatomy
I really couldn't show on in the streets of
York. Kindest remembrances to the Charringtons.
Tell her she will have to give a
series of dances ' when Harry comes marching
home ' to enable him to recover ' his steps ; '
and further inform the master of Byculla
that I shall expect to be allowed five lives
at pool for the first twelvemonth in consequence
of the demoralizing effect this
prolonged residence in uncivilized parts
has produced in my billiard science. Once
more, Annie dearest, good-bye. I — and all
the rest — are very fit, always excepting
those who you know from the papers have
not been with us since that sad October
day.

Ever your affectionate brother,

"Harry Harperley."

Miss Aysgarth could not refrain from a
slight start as she read of Cis Calvert's
presence in the Crimea. Her father marked
her cheek flush and her eye sparkle as she
perused the record of Cis's doings, and then
he saw that unbidden tears were trembling
in the lashes. It was with a slight mixture
of sob and smile that she handed her letter
across to the banker as she finished. The
triumphant smile which always wreaths a
woman's lips when she hears that the man
she loves has distinguished himself, mixed
as it must ever be in listening to such stories
as the above, with a slight shiver at the
dangers he has passed through. Cis Calvert
in the Crimea ? Where then, she thought,
was this Indian siren, in whose toils he was
immersed ? Was that rumour at Byculla
Grange mere Anglo - Indian gossip ? It
might be, she thought. She was no child,
nor ignorant that scandal was ever prevalent
in the land. She had heard, moreover, that
our Eastern empire is much addicted to

what they term "gup," whereby they mean
gossip, scandal, or by whatever other equivalent
the taking away of one's neighbours'
characters may be designated. At all events
there was one comfort. If her lover had
been entangled he had at all events now
broken his chains. If he had temporarily
wavered in his allegiance there was at
least good hope that rumour had much
exaggerated his defection. This Mrs. Coventry
could surely not be with him in the
Crimea ? Ladies as yet, so far as she knew,
had not ventured farther than Scutari,
where, if half the reports that came home
were true, there was only too much for
them to do, and the papers teemed with
sharp remarks on the shame and sin of
even allowing the few soldiers' wives to
participate in such rough work as was now
going on.

Mr. Harperley read the letter gravely and
with no little interest. He knew now, as
did every one else round York, that in the

race at Crockley Hill Cis Calvert had been
the victim of a fraud, of which he was as
innocent as any looker-on. But he had,
as was very natural, heard considerably
more about Cis's flirtation with Mrs. Coventry
than his daughter. He was quite
prepared, that business satisfactorily explained,
to welcome Cis as a son-in-law, but
he did think that things had better remain
as they were between them for the present,
that is to say, without any positive engagement,
and without their corresponding until
such time as the war should be over. He
liked Cis, and was conscious that in his
judgment about that unfortunate race he
had wronged him. He was anxious not to
fall into a similar mistake a second time,
but he loved his daughter dearly, and
was disturbed at the idea of handing
her over to a man who did not really
care for her. Cis's Indian flirtation might
be mere gossip, unfounded rumour, easy of
explanation, but he deemed it a thing

best cleared up before the old relations
were renewed.

Having finished the letter he handed it
quietly back to his daughter and said,
That all who knew Captain Calvert will
be pleased, though not surprised, at his
distinguishing himself is a matter of course ;
there are plenty of his friends round here
that this news will delight. He left us
under a grievous misconception, and the
majority of us know that we did him
scant justice on that occasion ; but, Annie,
although this Indian matter has never been
touched on between you and me, still I
know very well that it must have reached
your ears, and I think for the present it
will be wise to let things stand as they are.
If he clears himself in your eyes on his
return I shall give you to him with as much
pleasure as I can give you away at all. Let
us be of good hope that things will come
all right in the end, and in the mean time,
like hundreds of others, be content to wait."

When she gained her own room, carrying,
one may be certain, her brother's letter,
Annie sat down to think. She had been all
but trying to steel her heart to think no more
of this man. And now she did not feel
sure but what all this Indian story might
turn out to have been grossly exaggerated,
should there even be any foundation for it.
True, there was usually a suspicion of truth
at the bottom of Mrs. Charrington's stories,
but in this case it was only what she had
heard from a country which, in those days,
was practically very distant. Still flashed
across her mind that thought which instinctively
wrings every woman's heart,
Why had he not answered her last letter ?
And such a letter ! She was conscious that
she had poured forth all the depth of her
love for him in that epistle. If she refused
to give him up, and showed herself desirous
to continue correspondence, surely it was
not for him to decline ; it might be all very
chivalrous to say that with such a slur upon

his name, as a man of honour, the only
thing he could do was to resign all pretensions
to her hand ; but like most women
she could not, and she did not, think it was
for him to decide upon that. Surely she
was the best judge of a matter so nearly
concerning herself, and when she elected
to stand by him, let him have committed
what crime he might, was it not for him
to thankfully accept the sacrifice. Another
thing she knew now, that no stain attached
to his name ; and it was evident
from her brother's letter that Cis also was
now aware of that fact. Surely he ought
to write to her now ; he could hardly
expect that she should humiliate herself
by writing to him again whilst that last
letter remained unanswered. And then she
too came to the same conclusion as her
father, that there was nothing left for it
but to watch the papers and wait. If he
had really ceased to love her then she
should hear of him no more, and it were

best so ; if on the contrary he remained true
to her, a letter would come at last.

And then, like a true woman, she began
to make excuses for her lover. She had
not liked that chivalrous view ; she had
held it was not for him to take it. And
yet it was very noble of him too ; and of
course first arriving at the Crimea it was
all strange to him, and he must have had
a great deal to do. Had not her brother
pointed out the difficulty of carrying on
correspondence in the plight they then
were ; and now in consequence of his heroic
conduct — of course it was heroic in her
eyes — he was lying wounded and mangled.
True, Harry said it was nothing serious ;
that "he was not badly broke;" but then
that's just the way men talk of these
things. She could recall accidents in the
hunting-field in which the sufferer had been
reported " all right." nothing much the
matter, he has only broken his arm, two
ribs, and a collar-bone. How could she

expect him to write when he was probably
so badly wounded as to be in the hands
of a sick nurse ? And now her thoughts
travelled round to the opposite point of
the compass, and she began to ask herself
whether it was not unkind, almost unfeeling,
not to despatch a little note of sympathy to
this man in his hour of agony. Even if
he was no longer her lover he had been
very near and dear to her only a twelvemonth
ago, and at last Annie Aysgarth
finished up by doing what would be the
natural end in such a case in a woman's
reflections, that is, she sat down and cried
her heart out.

At Byculla Grange, I need scarcely say,
there was much discussion concerning Cis
Calvert's gallantry. The exoneration of his
character with regard to the steeplechase
had occasioned a great revulsion in his
favour. He had always been a popular
man, and now people recollected his dashing
horsemanship. If he had been one of the

first flight with the York and Ainsty, it
was evident now that he meant to hold the
same place when there was work to be done.
Members of the York Club were conscious
now that they had been a little unjust to
Cis Calvert ; that, although there were
undoubtedly strong grounds for suspicion,
there had been hardly sufficient evidence to
pronounce a verdict against him ; and then
a man's previous character and social status
should always plead for suspension of judgment
in such a case. They were one and
all only too anxious to make amends, and
every one now spoke enthusiastically concerning
him. There were of course plenty
of such stories going in the journals in
those days, but this sortie happened to
create rather more sensation than usual
from the fact that it took place at a time
when the exhaustion on both sides had
caused active operations to languish. Then
again the picturesque costume of the
Eussian leader had made him quite a man

of mark — no more persistent scourer of the
right attack trenches than he — and therefore
it naturally came to pass that the man who
had slain the Albanian became to some
extent a man of mark in his turn. Through
the Second and Light Divisions Cis Calvert's
name and story were now pretty generally
known.

I always said I knew it all along,"
exclaimed Mr. Charrington, as he threw
down the Times at breakfast, containing an
account of that night skirmish ; " I always
said Calvert would come out all right. Was
it likely a fellow who rode as straight as he
did to hounds wasn't likely to run straight
all through ? He's a glorious fellow, and
the banker's daughter hardly showed her
usual good sense when she allowed him to
go packing off to India. I used to think atone
time that she really meant to take him
for good and all, and I've no hesitation in
saying that I think she was a fool not to.
Whether he did or did not ask her of course

I don't know, but I'm pretty sure he would
if she had chosen."

Don't talk nonsense, Robert," replied
Mrs. Charrington a little sharply. "Miss
Aysgarth had, or at all events I fancy will
have, the opportunity of doing a good deal
better for herself than that. You must
recollect Major Crymes came into all his
uncle's money just before he left for the
East, and Annie Aysgarth can be Mrs.
Crymes when he returns, I have very little
doubt."

It may not be a very courteous or yet a
very polished fashion of replying to a lady's
speech, but Mr. Charrington simply gave
vent to a prolonged whistle.

You'll be kind enough to explain that,
Robert, although I know pretty well what
it means."

Oh, nothing," replied Mr. Charrington,
with some slight hesitation, " only I did
think — that is, I was under the impression
that he admired some one else."

VOL. III.

Meaning me," replied the lady with the
greatest calmness. " Of course he did ;
some of them " (by them Mrs. Charrington
described the male sex generally) " always do,
but you know very well he couldn't marry
me, and that I'm a true wife to you, although
I plead guilty to the womanly weakness of
a love for admiration. If you had ever
noticed anything, which of course you men
never do until we point it out to you,
you would have seen that I always provide
my admirers with suitable wives, — a purer
philanthropist never existed. Having ascertained
by personal experience that a man
understands how to render those petits soins
so dearly loved of my sex, I then do him a
good turn, and marry him off to the most
eligible young lady on my list."

Good Lord ! and to think that I have
been living for the last fifteen years with
a professional matchmaker and never knew
it."

No' replied the lady with a smile ;

"your unobservant sex only awake, as a
rule, to our virtues and perfections after
you have lost us."

But this was a little too much for Mr.
Charrington. He was fond of and quite
satisfied with his wife, but he also knew that
she had occasioned him many a paroxysm
of jealousy ; that there were times when
she could not restrain a certain crispness of
temper, and that, though not altogether the
unmitigated blessing she represented herself,
they got on very well together ; still there
was that occasional crumpling of the rose-leaves
unavoidable when two people makeup
their minds to dwell together in unity.
He didn't whistle this time, but thrusting
his hands in his pockets muttered something
indistinctly about a cigar in the
stables, and strolled out of the room.

He was wise in his generation, for to get
into argument with a woman on the subject
of her own perfections is, to put it mildly,
unadvisable in the eyes of a sensible man.

L 2

But if Cis Calvert's late doings were
discussed at the York Club, Byculla Grange,
and the Firs, there was also a more humble
place in which they were talked over, and
that was at the Punch Bowl Tavern in
Stonegate. The great Isham Boggs, who had
not been lately seen in York, had once more
arrived at that hostelry. Isham had come
up on one of his touting expeditions. That
Mr. Poplar had got a flyer for Epsom in
Wild Darrell was pretty generally known,
but it was also rumoured that there was a
colt in the north country stables which
would take a deal of beating, and it was to
inquire about, and if possible get a sight of,
this animal, that was the object of Mr. Boggs'
present mission He was sitting in that
bedroom on the first-floor, which he habitually
used on his visits to the Punch Bowl.
He was engaged, moreover, in that solace to
his lonely hours which he specially affected,
to wit, the consumption of gin, tobacco, and
the perusal of the racing calendar. But

lie was not alone upon this occasion. Mr.

Blundell, since the departure of his late
master for the Crimea, had relapsed into a
mere hanger-on the outskirts of the turf.
Isham Boggs might fairly claim to be the
biggest scoundrel that had ever come within
Mr. Blunt ell's personal knowledge, and
from our previous acquaintance with Major
Cryrnes' late groom we can easily conceive
that his admiration for Isham was unbounded.
To a man of Mr. Blundell's perverted morality
Isham's villanies were simply strokes of
genius : he had as much admiration for
Isham's talents as if they had been employed
in a laudable and legitimate vocation. Still
it was not altogether his own choice that he
had become what he was — the mere shadow
and assistant of the unscrupulous Isham.

When the — th Lancers got their orders
for the East the Major, as we know, got
rid of all his race-horses, and had, of course,
no further occasion for Blundell's services.
Mr. Blundell, it must be remembered, had

borne a very shady character when Crymes
first engaged him, and when the truth concerning
the disqualification of the Mumper
was, thanks to Mr. Charrington's exertions,
brought to light, it became evident that
Mr. Blundell had been, more or less, in the
secret of the fraud. That he had called on
Mr. Boggs at the Punch Bowl more than
once, that he had actually been in the trap
with him to witness the race, and had
brought the short note to his master which
had led to the Major making the suggestion,
transpired during the inquiry. There was
no tangible offence with which to charge
anybody, but it was quite clear that Boggs
and Dick Hunsley had originally contemplated
an elaborate racing plant. What
Hunsley's embarrassments had prevented
their carrying out in one way accident had
enabled them to carry out in another. That
Mr. Blundell lent himself to the carrying out
of Isham's scheme admitted of no manner
of doubt ; and under these circumstances it

was little likely that the Major's late stud-groom
would get employment in Yorkshire.
He was a man who had no fancy for working
harder for his bread than was absolutely
necessary. Like many others he had much
hankering for the flesh-pots, but preferred
their being filled with as little exertion as
possible. To obtain a precarious living by
assisting the great Isham in his continual
villanies was much more in accordance
with Blundell's disposition than seeking for
honest labour ; and that gentleman, who
had always employment for two or three
tools in connection with his nefarious
schemes, had munificently appointed Mr.
Blundell to that dubious position.

I only wish we had that Mumper game
to play over again. We didn't get half
enough out of it."

Didn't we ? " replied Isham, contemptuously.
" I made a very good thing of it ;
and as for you, it was the easiest earned
seventy-five pound ever you picked up.

It's mighty little you was asked to do
for it."

Yes, but you know you said I was to
have a hundred, and it really is dead low
water with me now."

Said you were to have a hundred ?
Ask any one who knows Isham Boggs if you
weren't devilish lucky to get three-fourths
of it ? Folks don't as a rule care about
discounting my promises to pay. Dead low
water are you ? Do I look as if I was
going about in my private carriage ? That's
just where it is. Whenever I plan a little
bit of successful — well, say industry, — and
make a bit of money by it, I never can
keep it. Most of what I got over that
steeplechase I dropped at the back end over
the October handicaps. Well, he was a
rare good horseman was Captain Calvert,
and it was ' hard lines ' that he should have
been hunted out of the country when he
wasn't even in the swim."

Well, I see by the papers," rejoined

Blundell, " that he's gone to the Crimea,
and been in among them Russians. You
think it was hard for him. We none of us
know what is quite good for us. Who
knows if he'd been with the regiment that
Balaclava da 7 whether he'd be alive now ? "

Now look here, my friend. I'll trouble
you not to bother me with any more of
your philosophy. If you think losing your
money is good for you do it by all means.
I know it don't suit me half so well as
winning other people's."

u I don't want to quarrel, Isham, I'm sure.
When do we leave this ? "

In two or three days most likely, but it
all depends on what news I get. We've
got this horse to see about, mind, and find
out whether he's really any good or whether
it's all gammon."

Mr. Book mission was destined to turnout
somewhat disastrously. He was fascinated
by the north country colt that he
had come up to see ; put his faith in him

instead of the favourite, and the end of
May saw him and Mr. Blundell completely
beggared upon Epsom Downs. No very
new experience to either of them, but more
so to the former. Both of these worthies
now fade from our pages. Their subsequent
career shows how unevenly justice is served
out to us in this world. Mr. Blundell
became a mere jackal of the race-course ;
but as for Isham Boggs, like many other
illustrious scoundrels, he made no edifying
finish on " Tyburn tree," or, to speak more
prosaically, in front of Newgate, but having
come once more unexpectedly, through an
an exceedingly well-concocted robbery, into
what was for him a bit of money, he
succeeded in persuading a well-to-do widow,
proprietress of a sporting tavern, to marry
him. Isham had remote dreams of betting
lists and unlimited gin ; but his consort,
before he could get the former on a comfortable
footing, took an evangelical turn,
sold out of the business, and rumour says that

the mighty Boggs turned teetotaller, and
deaf to the war-cry of the fielders, has been
actually seen in his advanced years holding
a plate in a " Little Bethel " or low-church
chape].

CHAPTER VII.

THE TAKING OF THE QUARRIES.

It is an early March morning, and standing
in the Quarries in rear of the left attack area
group of men, busily scanning the Eussian
lines through their field-glasses. Bearded,
unkempt, and unwashed, it would have
puzzled ' their dearest friends to recognize
those dandy warriors wont to lounge in the
park, a flower in their buttonhole, so often
in the season.

We don't seem much nearer getting in,"
observed a dashing officer now gone to his
rest, but who lived to be a General before
he died ; " and mark that green hill that
lies in front and a little to the left of the

Great Redan. What can our engineers be
about ? If we don't occupy it, depend on
it the Russians will before many days are

over."

It was probably more the business of the
French engineers to take possession of that
hill than our own. Our engineers might
certainly have retorted that they had not
sappers enough to trace the lines, nor could
the infantry furnish either the working
parties necessary to make the entrenchments,
nor the covering parties requisite to
defend them when they were made. If our
gallant Allies were not quite in such straits
as ourselves they at all events had their
own troubles to contend with, but they kept
them to themselves, whilst we proclaimed
our sufferings to the world generally, including
the enemy.

The first impulse of every Englishman,
as we all know, is to write to the Times,
whether his train is late, whether he is
overcharged by his cabman, or whether he

has quarrelled with his wife ; and not only
did the accredited reporter of the Thunderer
send home his fair and unblessed statements
of the wretched state the army was in, but
all sorts of correspondence iu the shape of
private letters from men in the Crimea,
were published by their imprudent relatives,
and the Eussian Generals as they read these
statements might well feel good hope of
hurling the invader once more back into
the sea. It became at last more a game of
endurance than anything else : it was a
question simply of which side could pour
the greatest amount of men and material
into those few square miles of the Crimea
in which the struggle was destined to be
decided. Steam water-carriage of course in
the end beat waggon carriage across the
steppes, as it was bound to do. The soldiers
of the Allies were at all events landed in
the Crimea with practically no loss, but
the Russian reinforcements wasted terribly
during that long and terrible march from

the north to the southern extremity of her
empire ; and, as was said, when the springtime
came, the navvies arrived, and the
railway was laid down from Balaclava nearly
up to the front, it at all events looked as if
we meant to stay.

The prognostications of that member of
that grimy group on the Quarry Hill were
speedily verified. A week or two afterwards
and the eyes of Allies were greeted
with the first outlines of the Mamelon,
destined to occasion considerable trouble
and much loss of life before it fell into
possession of the French. As the sap rises
in the trees with the spring-time so was
fresh life infused into the campaign. Both
sides had received reinforcements of men
and ammunition. That the stagnation
of the winter had disappeared, and the
work was once more to begin in earnest, was
obvious to the most careless spectator, and
that the first step must be the taking of the
Mamelon by the French was apparent to

every one. One night the Zouaves burst
over their trenches, hurled the Russians out
of the Mamelon, and, carried away by their
national elan, followed their flying foe to
the very foot of the Malakoff ; intoxicated
by the elation of victory they actually meditated
the taking of that work by a coup demain;
but there the fugitives were promptly
reinforced, and turning fiercely upon the
somewhat disorganized victors, not only
hunted them back to the lost entrenchment
but retook it, and defied all attempts to
dislodge them during the night. Palliser,
the French commander-in-chief, was, however,
the last man to abandon a point upon
which he had once set his mind. Once let
him determine that the carrying the position
was necessary, and he was ruthless of life in
effecting his object, and that the Zouaves
would have another opportunity afforded
them speedily, was a thing of which there
was little doubt. One afternoon it was
whispered about that the French were once

more going to assault the Marnelon, and the
dying rays of the April sun saw an anxious
knot of British officers once more gathered
on the Quarry Hill, with their glasses fixed
on that irritating earthwork. Too far off to
hear the yell with which the Zouaves once
more sprang at the throat of the foe, one
could just catch the faint notes of the pas
de charge as they swept across the open,
for all the world, as a sporting subaltern
exclaimed, " like a pack of hounds being
thrown into cover' The fierce, angry
crackle of the musketry raged for a few
minutes, and then the flat-capped Muscovites
could be seen falling back on the
Malakoff, and it was obvious that the work
was in the hands of the French. This time
their leaders succeeded in keeping their
men in hand, and instead of following the
beaten foe turned their attention to throwing
up an entrenchment in the gorge of their
new conquest. Rapidly that little group on
the Quarry Hill break up and tear down to

VOL. III. M

the respective covering parties to which
they belong, already falling in, for a hint
has been given that they might be required
to make a demonstration on their side, with
a view of harassing the foe and securing
the French in their new position.

From this the siege progresses rapidly ;
the allies advance steadily, and the approaches
are pushed closer and closer.
Every inch of ground is fiercely contested,
and the Muscovite will fight stubbornly the
whole night to recover any loss of position.
The French have in this instance an easier
task than the English, insomuch as the
latter are working on rocky ground, which
of course makes the construction of the sap
difficult, while the French in softer soil
cannot only run their trenches more easily,
but can obviously get much closer to the
enemy's work than our own people. In
the left attack, when they reached the
crest of the hill overlooking the Barrack
Battery, further advance was impossible,

and that a main assault should be delivered
from that point had never entered the head
of any of the chiefs of the Allied Army.
The French had for some time believed that
the way into Sebastopol was through the
Flagstaff Battery, but the verdict of the
English engineer, who if he could not see
a joke was at all events a connoisseur in
fortresses, was now pretty generally accepted,
and that whenever the Malakoff fell Sebastopol
would be virtually in the hands of
the Allies was now usually conceded. As
the French pushed on it became absolutely
necessary that sundry of the Eussian
advance posts in front of the Great Sedan
should be taken by the English. From
these positions the enemy's sharpshooters
were able to enfilade the French trenches.
The two most conspicuous of these points
were a set of rifle-pits, subsequently called
Egerton's Pits, and the Quarries, by no
means to be confounded with the Quarry
Hill, in rear of the left attack. Stone

M 2

quarries were somewhat numerous on the
plateau, most of the materials for the
building of Sevastopol having doubtless been
obtained therefrom, and that these should
at times be available as natural defences is
evident.

That the siege was going on in grim
earnest now there could be very little doubt.
Hardly a week passed without, in the slang
of the army, " a row in the ditches." From
the obstinate fight the enemy had made for
the retention of the Rifle Pits it was rightly
augured that the Quarries would be a stiffish
nut to crack. Poor Lempriere, although
reputed the smallest officer in the British
army, had shown that pluck is no matter
of inches, and had died gallantly at the
head of his company in the rush with which
these pits were carried. His Colonel had
picked him up in the first flush of their
success, and carried the lifeless figure out
of the turmoil, rejoining hjs men only
to be in his turn also carried away a

corse before morning, victim to one of the
fierce onslaughts made by the enemy in the
course of the night for the recovery of lost
ground.

A few evenings later and Cis Calvert,
now gazetted a lieutenant, is parading with
a strong party of the — th Fusiliers for
trench duty. There is a rumour that we
mean having the Quarries shortly, and tonight
—

o

"A whisper's caught up through the ranks as they form,
A whisper that fain would break out in a cheer,
How the foe is in force, how the work will warm :
But steady ! the chief gallops up from the rear."

Gentlemen' said the field-officer of the
trenches, addressing the group of officers
lounging in front of their respective commands,
with as pleasant a smile as if about
to ask them to supper, "the honour of
taking the Quarries has been deputed to us.
Of course we shall get in, but remember we
have got to $fay in, and the enemy are not
likely to leave us in the enjoyment of a

tranquil evening. All I have to impress
upon you is this, — keep your men well in
hand, and don't be tempted to follow up
the first success. Eemember our business
is only to take the Quarries and keep them,
and should you allow yourselves to be runaway
with by the idea that we can carry
the Redan besides, we shall be likely to
fall into the same mistake the French made
in their first assault on the Mamelon."
Touching their caps the officers were about
to fall in, when the Colonel bending from
his saddle said, " Oh, Arkwright, you're in
command of the Fusiliers, are you not \ "

Yes, sir," replied Jerry.

That's all right," continued the Colonel
cheerily. " You know every inch of the
ground, and you and your fellows will lead
the attack ; remember we must have the
Quarries, and we must keep them. I'm
promised plenty of reinforcements, and, by
Jove, you know, we can't afford to have
those Frenchmen grinning at us. If we're

not still there by sunrise tomorrow I for
one shall be most likely past praying for."

I dare say it will be a lively night, sir,
but you can rely upon our fellows. We
have got a good many old soldiers in our
ranks still," with which words Arkwright
turned and rejoined his men.

And now the covering parties wound
their different ways steadily down to the
trenches, threading the intricate maze of
boyaux and parallels till they reached
their respective stations. Jerry Arkwright
halted his men in a species of place
(Farmer, formed in rear of the advanced
parallel. Calling his brother-officers to him
he said pithily :

Look here, you fellows, we've got to
rush this place as soon as we get the order.
It's not far to go, and let's have no stopping
for shooting till we get in. The men may
use their firelock then anyhow, but to fire
prematurely is simply to call attention to
the fact that we are coming, — that's all I've

got to say. Another chance for you, Cis,"
he answered, as he gripe Calvert's hand ;
there'll be promotion on Cathcart's Hill
for some of us before daybreak."

Never a man understood better the old
saying, " the more you look at a fence the
less you like it," than the dashing chief in
charge of the attack. Not the man he to
keep his bulldogs in the leash. Not a
quarter of an hour after they got into their
places, when his voice rang low and clear
through the trench,

— th Fusiliers ! forward ! charge !

Jerry Arkwright, Cis Calvert, and three
or four more sprang over the parapet, and
like a wave their soldiers streamed behind
them. Almost before the Russians had
fairly discerned them they were into the
Quarries. A fierce ten or twelve minutes'
melee and the enemy were falling back pellmell
on the Great Redan, while the victors
set to work under the auspices of an officer
of the Engineers and his sappers, who had

accompanied the attack, to entrench the
reverse of their new acquisition.

Well done, Fusiliers' cried the chief ;
though I'm afraid, Arkwright, we can't
call it altogether a bloodless triumph."

"No, sir, indeed," replied Jerry; "poor
Matlock is killed, Lieutenant Wilkinson
I've sent back badly wounded, to say
nothing of a good many of my men."

I'm sorry to hear poor Matlock's gone,
though when you play with the china you
must expect to break plates. Ha ! we have
woke them up at last, and I fancy have
ensured a hottish night all along the line."

And as he spoke the Russian batteries
open fire from the Malakoff to the Flagstaff,
producing speedily retort from the lines of
the Allies. Anon amongst the fierce roar
of the artillery came the spattering of
musketry, not necessarily indicative of an
attack upon either side, but acute suspicion
of it. Again and again on both sides did
the lines blaze with the quick flashes of the

rifles, simply from the alarm that the foe
was advancing to the assault. In one place
alone was there an ominous silence, and
that was from the newly-taken position and
from the Russian entrenchments that faced
it. Suddenly the Great Redan thundered
forth with increased vehemence, shell after
shell hurtled through the air, carrying more
or less destruction through the right attack.

Steady, lads, steady," cried the Colonel
in clear resonant tones. " Keep your men
well together, Captain Arkwright ; this is
only the overture ; the play will begin
again shortly. They are coming on again
before many minutes are over, and in real
earnest."

Yes," rejoined the Engineer officer
cheerily, " the Russians are not quite the
boys to take an action of ejectment quietly,
and, by the Lord ! here they come."

Let them have it all you know," cried
Arkwright. " Use your rifles freely, men.
Remember the more you stop before they

get to the parapet the less trouble you'll
have afterwards."

Covered to some extent by the thunder of
their own artillery, and despite the withering
fire of musketry relentlessly poured upon
them from the position they had just lost,
a dense Eussian column came steadily on.
But the English on their side had by this
time been heavily reinforced, and a fierce
hand-to-hand struggle of some ten or fifteen
minutes only resulted in the enemy's reeling
back shattered and discomfited. Another
officer of the Fusiliers was carried camp-wards
after this last sortie, finishing up his
military career by what eventually proved
the loss of a leg. Arkwright's prophecy
that " it was destined to be a hottish night "
was amply fulfilled. No less than five times
did the foe come on and furiously endeavour
to recover the lost position. The thunder
of the big guns was well-nigh ceaseless on
either side, and in the last sortie but one,
Arkwright, who had handled his men with

great skill and gallantry throughout the
struggle, fell, and was carried away apparently
dead. When the sun broke the
ground between the Quarries and the
chevaux de rise, that covered the salient
of the Great Redan, was dotted with little
grey heaps, interspersed occasionally with
scarlet, that, when the sun had set, had
been living men. Black with powder and
his eyes bloodshot with the smoke and
carnage of battle, Cis Calvert mustered the
shattered ranks of the Fusiliers, sole surviving
officer of that party.

We have got them and we've kept
them, Calvert, though it has cost us dear.
The relief will be down directly, and it
will be for others to see the position is not
lost, but, good Heavens ! are you the only
officer left of the six of you there were
last night?"

That's all, sir. Poor Arkwright fell in
the last sortie but one, and I very much
fear that, except carrying him to Cathcart's

Hill, there is nothing more left for us to do
for him in this world."

"Down on your faces, men," suddenly
thundered the Colonel, as the shrill whistle
of a shell fell upon his ear, albeit not
showing the faintest intention of following
his own prescription.

Another moment and a thirteen-inches
had pitched into the group, but when the
dust and smoke of the explosion had cleared
away Cis Calvert and three of his men
were down, though not the least in compliance
with the Colonel's orders. The shell
had issued a mandate on its own account,
which had taken precedence of the chiefs,
to which, indeed, there had been no time to
give effect. It was the last sacrifice to the
holocaust of the taking of the Quarries.

CHAPTER VIII.

A FAREWELL SHOT.

"They had sharpish work at the front
last night' said Crymes, as he entered the
semi-mess tent of the — th Lancers. " I
hear the — th Fusiliers got terribly mauled.
Rumour says that every officer they had
down in the trenches was killed or wounded.
If you have nothing to do, Harperley, I'm
good to ride up to the Second Division in
the afternoon and inquire if Calvert is all
right."

What was it ? " inquired Harry, " a
sortie 1 "

No ; we took the Quarries, but the
Russians, as usual, made us fight for them

all night. I fancy the butcher's bill is
pretty heavy this time."

"I'm your man," replied young Harperley.
Not only shall I be in a fever till I know
if dear old Cis is all right, but I happen to
have a good many other pals in the — th
Fusiliers whom I should like to inquire
after. But how did you happen to hear all
this ? "

I was field-officer you see last night, in
charge of the pickets, and the roar of the
big guns and the rattle of the musketry
left no doubt about their having stormy
times at the front. Nothing of course came
our way, nothing ever does. Cavalry are, I
suppose, always out of it in a big siege.
We have had our day, and until the d — d
place is taken I don't suppose we shall
have it again. Since the reinforcements
from India arrived and the drafts came out
from home we are strong enough to do
something if we only got the chance."

I'll ride up to the Second Division with

you after lunch, Major, with pleasure. Can't
say I heard anything of the row myself.
I had spent the night before on picket in
the valley. It was my turn in bed."

That afternoon saw the Major and young
Harperley riding into the lines of the Second
Division. They found the Fusiliers something
" like the dog that has fought, licking
their wounds." Even if triumphant there
can be very little feeling of exultation when
a regiment gets cut up as severely as they
had been on the previous night. The
survivors cannot help feeling a little sad
for those comrades who died by their side.
One of the first who came forward to welcome
them, with his head wrapped up in
bandages, was no other than Jerry Arkwright.

"I'm awful glad to see you, old man,"
exclaimed young Harperley. " We heard
on our way up that you were amongst the
fallen. I can see you have been knocked
about a bit, but I do hope that there's
nothing serious ? "

No ; I feel pretty generally earthquake
at present, and had a mighty close shave.
I was picked up for dead, but a quarter of
an inch in these cases makes all the difference
; the bullet went through my forage
cap, and just grazed the skull ; but our
doctor says that, owing to its natural
density, there's no material harm done ;
however, it's been a bad business. Matlock
was killed outright ; Griffith and Bradshaw
are very severely wounded, one must lose
an arm and the other a leg ; while poor
Cis Calvert is knocked about all over."

Good God ! " exclaimed Harry Har-percy,
"you don't say it's as bad as that ?
Where is his tent ? — we must see him."

They won't let you do that ; the
doctors allow nobody inside there," rejoined
Jerry, in husky tones. " As the greatest
friend he has in the regiment, I petitioned
just to go in for three minutes, but I was
told gruffly that looking after my own head
and nerves was quite enough for me to do

VOL. III. N

at present, and that, moreover, poor Cis is
still only half conscious. It was a shell,
you see," continued Jerry, in low tones ;
and the doctor won't as yet confess the
extent of his injuries, but there's no doubt,
poor fellow, that he's pretty bad, and that
if they get him round sufficiently to send
down to Scutari to be nursed, they'll be
lucky."

Well, I'm very sorry indeed to hear
about Calvert," said Crymes, quietly ; " I'm
sure if you can let his old regiment know
how he is going, we shall be only too
grateful."

No, thanks, Captain Arkwright ; we
Won't get off," continued the Major, in
answer to the mute interrogatory of Jerry's
batman ; very glad to see you came safe
out of the melee yourself; but you must
expect hottish times during the next few
weeks."

Young Harperley said nothing for some
little time, as they jogged leisurely homewards.

The boy had not only strong personal
affection for Calvert, but all that
admiration that we only give to our beau
ideal in those early days. He had felt the
sharp severance from some of his comrades
already acutely, and now it seemed that not
only was he to lose the brother-officer to
whom he had most looked up, but the lad
knew that he would have this story to
write to Annie.

Brothers, especially younger ones, do not
as a rule know much concerning their
sisters' love affairs, but Harry had been the
confidant of both sides on this occasion, and
was quite aware that Annie had parted
with her heart in serious earnest. The two
people he loved most dearly on earth were
Cis Calvert and his sister, and to see those
two married was one of the things he looked
forward to with the greatest satisfaction.

Crymes, too, w T as thinking a great deal
over the situation. That there was every
probability of his rival being swept from

N 2

his path in real earnest he knew this time,
and a few months back he would have ruthlessly
reckoned up this as so many points
in his favour in this love-chase he was pursuing.
But the grim earnest of war had
brought out in Crymes, as it did in many
another such similar hard and worldly
character, all that was best in him. He
had always admired pluck, and Cis Calvert
had shown a reckless daring in the trenches
that the Major fully appreciated. He would
have said now, with reference to Miss
Aysgarth, " Let the best man win her." A
few months back he would have remarked
with a sneer, " All is fair in love or war ;
don't suppose that I'm going to neglect such
chances as fortune sends me." Now it was
in tones of genuine regret that he turned
round to young Harperley, and quietly said,
That's a poor account we heard of Calvert
; he must be badly hurt when they
don't let his brother-officers see him ; and
the hot weather we are now having, it's

desperate odds against a man pulling
through. Give him the best care they can
at the front, both the food and the attendance
must be rough. The ordinary hospital
orderly is a very poor substitute for a
woman's hand about a sick man's pillow ;
the sooner they can get him down to the
banks of the Bosphorus the better. The
sun beats through the tents now with a
strength which is very trying to a man
with all the fever of his wounds on him."

Well, Major, considering the way you
were knocked about at Balaclava, there's nobody
entitled to speak with more authority ;
not, after all, that you were much troubled
with the sun during your convalescence."

No, by the Lord," said Crymes, with
a low laugh ; " there were days at that
time when I think I would have paid a
hundred a-piece for extra blankets. But
look here, young 'un, you ride up and see
Arkwright as often as you can ; never
mind what Calvert says, but ship him

down to Scutari as soon as he can bear
the journey."

Come' rejoined Harperley, " you took a
pretty different view of things in your own
case ; your language was pretty strong and
emphatic when we talked about shipping
you down there'

Never mind," returned the Major,
shortly, " I wasn't half as badly hurt as I
fancy Calvert is. If you care about him,
do as I tell you."

The next day was mail day ; all letters
for England had to be in the hands of the
letter-serjeant by five o'clock, and that
afternoon, any one who had peeped into the
cornet's tent might have seen Harry in
his shirt-sleeves, struggling desperately with
pen, ink, and paper. He was writing to
his sister, and knew that he had to tell the
story of Cis Calvert's last misadventure.
He had a pretty fair inkling of what bitter
sorrow this news would be to her. He
didn't in the least know the rights of it,

but he had somehow gathered, since he met
Cis in the Crimea, that there was a screw
loose with their correspondence. He thought
it was possible that pending the clearing up
of the Crockley Hill scandal his father had
sternly prohibited it ; but of that Cis was
now proved innocent, and as soon as this
business was over they would all go home
and set the bells ringing in York minster.
That had been his impression, but the boy's
face grew very serious as he recalled what
Crymes had said on their way homewards.
He himself had been gambling with death
too long not to recognize the truth of what
the Major said. What a lot of his friends
had been returned badly wounded, and
before three weeks were over he had stood
by their graves either on the plateau or by
the quiet hill-side, while the big guns of
Sebastopol and the trenches sounded their
solemn requiem.

Harry's letter vrould have been the cheery
letter a young fellow like himself might have

been expected to write. The hardships of
the winter were over, provisions plentiful — a
very important factor in all campaigning,
more especially at nineteen, when the appetite
is healthy ; and yet when Miss Aysgarth
read it some fortnight or so later, she felt
instinctively there was a want of real cheeriness
running through the preamble. Harry
knew that in spite of all this fencing the
real gist of the matter was to come as yet,
and he " craned " at it as he never had yet
at a big fence.

You will, I know, be very sorry to hear
that poor Cis Calvert is badly hurt. He
was the last officer left (in the morning) of
the lot that went down to the trenches overnight
of the covering party of the — th
Fusiliers. One of the toughest bits of work
they have had at the front for some time ;
and poor Cis's luck was real hard. He had
escaped untouched through the whole business,
and while mustering the remnant of his
men previous to marching homewards, and

after the hot cannonade which had been
carried on the whole night had virtually
ceased, a stray shell splashed into the midst
of them and knocked over poor Cis and
three or four of his following. I am afraid,
Annie, it's a bad business, for the doctors
refuse to let either me or any other of his
friends see him, saying, ' Indeed it would be
no use as he is only semi-conscious.' We
must hope for the best ; but I shall be awful
glad when I see the dear old fellow shipped
off to Scutari. Crymes says it's not good
for any one badly hurt to remain up here ;
and poor dear Cis I feel sure will do no
more soldiering this year. He may not
have been out very long, but, by Jove, he
has done his share ; and our Colonel vows
that he will have him back in command of
a troop of ours as soon as ever he is fit to
be about. As I told you before, we never
found out what a good fellow the Major was
till we got on service. He rode up to the
front with me to ask after Calvert only the
other day, and seemed as distressed about
it as any one of us. He told me only this
morning that it was a great satisfaction for

him to think that he and Cis had shaken
hands before this business. Good-bye ; love
to the dear old father, and remember you
need none of you feel the least uneasy about
me ; us cavalry swells seem quite out of it
for the present ; nor till the fall of Sebastopol
is there much probability of there being
any work for us.

Ever your affectionate brother,
Harry Harperley."

Not much in such a letter as this, you will
say, and yet the Crimean mail-bags in those
days were plentifully sprinkled with such
epistles, which brought hot tears into many
a woman's eyes, and gave even strong men a
choking in the throat when they found that
either Tom, Jim, or Dick, would never again
be seen on Ascot Heath, or help them through
a magnum of claret at the Eag. And as
this letter sped homeward through the
Mediterranean it was destined to cross another
letter bound for the Crimea, which did
not reach Cis Calvert for many a week later

than it should have done. Annie Aysgarth
after a sharp struggle had swallowed her
pride on the receipt of her brother's letter.
She could not hear of Cis in the midst of
the strife without writing him one line of
passionate sympathy. She felt, if anything
happened to him, that she could never forgive
herself if she did not give him one
more opportunity of reconciliation, and then
after that cry in her room was over she sat
down and wrote one of those letters such as
were penned by scores of women in those
days — days be it remembered before the art
of letter-writing was lost — now we talk
through a telephone, scratch what we have
to say on the back of a post-card, or condense
it into the twenty words that can be
sent by telegraph for a shilling.

My dearest Cis,

Although you have never answered
my last letter, and I did think that
it at least merited a reply, I must write to
you once more. They tell me that you

have forgotten me, but I'll believe it only
from your own lips, or from your own hand.
Still, even if it were so, I only know that
you have once been all the world to me ;
and I know from Harry that you are now
in the Crimea, and in the midst of all that
dreadful fighting. It is hard to have both
you and Harry there, and the mail, as you
may imagine, makes me like many another
woman turn sick for fear of the news it may
bring us. If all is to be over between us, I
at least deserve a kind letter of farewell at
your hands. I dare not say more ; indeed
I am afraid I have already said too much.
If my letter to Secunderabad ever did reach
you it was cruel of you, Cis, not to have
vouchsafed me a reply. Farewell, my own ;
yes, even if it is for the last time I claim
the right to call you so. You were my own
once ; yes, all my very own that evening
we sat over the fire at tea when you gave
up the run of the season to ride home from
Askham Bog with

Yours ever,

Annie Aysgarth."

Cis in the mean while is bothering the
doctors not a little. They shake their
heads over him, and concur generally that it
is a very ticklish case, and that it is desirable
to get him down to Scutari, where there
are many advantages not procurable in those
sun-smitten tents of the Crimea, as soon as
may be. But that is where it is ; he is so
desperately knocked about they cannot as
yet patch him up sufficiently to stand the
voyage down ; Cis continues in a comatose
state that rather puzzles the faculty ;
they cannot arouse him. When in their
desire to awake the brain-power once more
they permit the visits of Jerry Arkwright
and one or two more intimate friends the
result is still more disheartening. Cis gazes
at them with lack-lustre eye, and it is difficult
to understand whether he even knows
them. Now and again he will open his lips,
but it is very sparingly, and even then very
little to the purpose. He apparently has
but slight understanding of where he is, and

his wild utterances refer more to his Indian
days, or the time at York, than his later
experiences. True, ever and anon he would
revert to that fierce evening in the Quarries,
the feverish light would gleam in the lacklustre
eyes, and in a broken voice he would
say, " Steady, men, steady ! here they come
again ! Hold your fire till I give the word,"
and then sink back on his pillow exhausted.
Endless were the kind inquiries made
about him from the gallant Colonel, at
whose feet it may be said he fell, and
whose own escape was almost miraculous
to all his particular chums in the army.
Harry Harperley " bucketted " ponies unmercifully
between their lines aud those of
the Second Division for news of Cis. Old
Copplestone himself made more than one
visit of inquiry. That he, Cis, had distinguished
himself, I need scarcely say, he
had no comprehension of. He hardly
seemed even to recognize those few intimates
who were allowed to see him, and

at length the doctors decided, dangerous
though they admitted the experiment might
be, to ship him down to Scutari. His soldier-servant
was to go with him. and the doctor
of the — th Fusiliers and Jerry Arkwright
saw him on board ship. Harry Harperley,
with something amazingly resembling an
apple-core in his throat, was also present
in the Balaclava harbour upon that occasion
; but utterly exhausted by his journey
down from the front, Cis apparently recognized
none of them.

Shall we ever see him again, Doctor ? "
inquired Jerry Arkwright, as they descended
the ship's side.

That's more than any one of my profession
could honestly tell you," replied the
surgeon ; "I firmly believe I've done my
best in getting him away, but it's no use
disguising that it's a dreadfully 
case. I like and admire poor Calvert as
much as either of you, but it's no use mince
matters, — his life hangs on a thread.

CHAPTER IX.

SISTER ELIZABETH.

It is a good many years now since the
great drama of the Crimea was played,
but there must be many who recollect one
of the first tragic scenes in that history,
and can call to mind the burning of the
Europa,' and how Willoughby Moore, after
having seen the last of his Inniskillen
Dragoons into the boats, perished in the
blazing transport ; pretty well the first
sacrifice of life that, in our fierce struggle
with the Muscovite. But there are many
who do not know how quietly and unobtrusively
his widow took up the cross that
he had been fain to lay down, and did his

duty to her country. Miss Nightingale and
her nurses constituted an army of strength
to whom the soldiers of the Crimea could
never be sufficiently thankful. But Miss
Nightingale's mission was avowedly more to
succour the soldiers than the officers ; these
latter, as might be well supposed, had more
opportunity of taking care of themselves in
their hour of tribulation than was enjoyed
by the rank and file. Of course they took
their place in the long aisles of the Scutari
hospital, and shared the lot of their humbler
comrades ; but there was no special building
set apart for their accommodation. It
occurred to Mrs. Moore that this was a
want she could well supply. With no
little trouble she organized a band of nurses,
and opened a convalescent home for officers
on a lovely site some two or three miles
from the big hospital, and many an officer,
worn out by sickness, wounds, or the
nervous tension involved in the perpetual
trench-work, felt most sincerely grateful for

VOL. III.

the careful, gentle tending; that enabled
him once more to take his place with his
comrades at the front.

Leaning at an open window, gazing sadly
over the blue waters of the Sea of Marmot,
was a woman, still young, but whose worn,
handsome face told a tale of trial and
trouble. The dark hair was coiled quietly
away under a plain mob cap, and the prim
grey stuff dress and white apron were as
rigidly divested of the faintest sign of
coquetry as the garb of the early Quakers.
Whether the lady at the head of the
establishment knew the history of Sister
Elizabeth or not was pure matter of conjecture
; but what was well known to everyone
about the place, Lady Superintendent
and under nurses, was that no more unflinching
worker than Sister Elizabeth had
they in that hospital. Zealous and untiring
she moved from ward to ward, with her soft
voice and almost caressing manner, whispering
words of strength and consolation,

winning confidences, and melting strong
men of the world sometimes to tears in
their hour of weakness. She wrote letters
for them to those dearly loved at home ;
ah ! and took down dying behests too at
times, and, save when she bade good-bye to
some patient, who had for weeks caused her
serious anxiety, no one ever saw a faint
smile wreath the lips of Sister Elizabeth ;
no one of the numerous sufferers whom her
unremitting devotion had nursed to health
could have been made to believe that the
woman to whom he in the main owed his
recovery had, not a twelvemonth before,
been the most reckless flirt between the
Himalayas and Cape Comorin.

Suddenly the door opened, and one of
the assistant nurses gliding into the room,
said quietly :

The directress wishes to see you in her
room for a few minutes, Sister Elizabeth ;
there is a very bad case just come down
that will require the most unremitting

o 2

attention if he is ever to recover ; you are
the cleverest and most untiring of all of us,
and the directress, I fancy, means to hand
him over to your charge."

I will come at once, and only trust that
Providence will be as good to me as it has
been before, in like cases. Did you happen
to hear his name ? "

Yes ; Mr. Calvert of the — th Fusiliers ;
it is the officer of whom all the papers
talked so much about in the winter ; it's
the man who killed the Albanian in that
great sortie about Christmas."

Lizzie Daventry turned white to her very
lips, and her fingers gripe the sill of the
window in a manner that would have left
livid marks had they touched flesh instead
of wood. For a few seconds she turned
sick, and felt in deadly terror of swooning.
Her teeth were clenched, and it was only
by a desperate effort that she succeeded in
recovering herself. As if she didn't know
the whole history of that wild night's

trench-work ! As if the fullest report that
she could possibly lay her hands upon was
not one of her most cherished possessions !
As if her cheek had not flushed, and her eye
sparkled as she read it, and murmured to
herself, " Loved him, yes ! the only one of
them all I ever really loved. Loved ! Yes,
and loved in vain ; but Cis, my darling,
it's a consolation to know that at all events
I loved a man ! " And now she was called
upon to battle with death over this man's
couch. Could she do it ? Could she command
her feelings ? Could she trust herself ?
She had nursed, and successfully too, several
cases probably as severe as this. Her
heart had been filled with infinite compassion
and pure womanly sorrow at the
sufferings of her patients ; nerve, hand, nor
watchfulness had ever failed her as yet ; but
this was different. She had loved this man
nay, did love him, cared for him as she
never had and never should care for another ;
and experience had taught her that an

emotional nurse is decidedly not good fora
patient.

I will try it," she murmured ; " I cannot
bear to think that other hands than mine
should tend him here, and if I feel it is
beyond my strength I will make a clean
breast of it, and request to be relieved of
my task."

Tell the directress," she replied, as
soon as she could master her voice, " that I
will be with her in two or three minutes."

She had purposely kept her face averted,
and gazed seawards from the window while
overcoming her emotion. This had occasioned
no surprise to the assistant nurse, as
alert though Sister Elizabeth was when on
duty she was notoriously absent and dreamy
when not occupied. A few minutes' interview
with the directress, and Sister Elizabeth
found that she was indeed to take
charge of the man she loved. No sooner
had she received her instructions than she
glided down to the ward in which he had

been placed. She paused for a moment at
the threshold to compose herself; she had
never seen his face, she had never set eyes
upon him, since that afternoon at Secunderabad,
when she had dismissed him with her
passionate kiss still clinging to his lips.
She had doubted whether she should ever
see him again, but it was probably the wild
hope of doing so, mingled with the feverish
desire to bury the past in oblivion, that had
brought her to Constantinople. The real
earnest work had done her good. The
strange contrast it offered to the frivolous
life she had previously led took her out of
herself. For the first time this woman
was living for others, and not for herself,
and then where she was now she got the
very earliest intelligence of what took place
in the Crimea, and her heart was as much
there as even Annie Aysgarth's.

Another moment and she was standing
by Cis Calvert's bedside. She had looked
upon a good many shattered specimens of

humanity since she had commenced her
duties in that hospital, but this was the
first time it had fallen to her lot to tend
any one whom she had previously known.
Cis's pale haggard face and fever-lit eyes
shocked her dreadfully. She knew from
experience that this man was sorely stricken.
He was still in the semi-conscious state,
which was the furthest the doctors at the
front had been able to advance him on the
road to recovery. He gazed apathetically
round him as if entertaining the very
mildest curiosity as to who might be about
him, or what they were doing. He rarely
spoke, and was very patient except in one
respect — his dislike to any exertion was very
pronounced ; the mere fact of being called
upon to take sustenance seemed to irritate
him. A surgeon was standing by his bedside
when Sister Elizabeth reached it, his
fingers on the wounded man's pulse, and an
empty medicine glass in his other hand.
The moving him from aboard-ship has

taken it out of him a good deal. I've just
given him a strong dose of ammonia' said
the doctor id low tones ; " and now I must
talk to you about him for a few minutes.
It's about as bad a case as we have had. He
is awfully knocked about, but it is not
altogether hopeless. An immensity depends
upon the nursing. There is nothing,
you see, to absolutely kill him if we don't
let him slip through our fingers from exhaustion.
He must have perpetual food
and perpetual stimulant, — beef-tea soup,
brandy, champagne, and ammonia must be
always handy, and never leave him, if
awake half an hour, without one or the
other. You must exercise your own judgment
about which it is most judicious to
use. Pull him through the next week, and
I think the chances are he'll pull through
altogether. I'm thoroughly aware of your
great value as a nurse ; but this case will
tax all your energies, and the minute you
find it too much for you, you must let me

know, and I will of course see that you are
relieved."

You may trust me," replied Sister
Elizabeth, in quiet, resolute tones ; " if my
nursing can save him it shall be done ; and
the minute I feel that the strain is too
severe you can thoroughly rely upon my
studying the best interests of my patient,
and handing him over to some one else."

From this time Cis Calvert became Sister
Elizabeth's sole charge. She no doubt did
her share of nursing three or four of the
unfortunates in the adjacent beds ; but even
the other assistant ladies and under-nurses
who shared her labours in that ward were
astonished at the unwearied devotion she
bestowed upon Mr. Calvert. A few hours'
sleep she was fain to snatch at times ; but
as far as endurance permitted Cis received
neither food nor drink from any hand but
her own. He never evinced the slightest
sign of recognition ; but still, purely mechanical
though it was, Sister Elizabeth's

presence seemed to soothe him. A slight
gleam of satisfaction would steal over his
face when, after an unavoidable absence, she
returned once more to that chair by his
bedside in which she had passed so many
vigilant hours of late. As for Lizzie
Daventry, the control she exercised over
herself was something; marvellous. Again
and again had it seemed as if the slender
thread of life must snap ; and often had the
yearning to press her lips to his forehead
proved almost irresistible. It w T as w r ell perhaps
that the presence of other patients in
the w T ard helped her to restrain this impulse.
Slowly, but, alas ! very slowly, did
Cis struggle back from the confines of the
grave. The week the doctor had stipulated
for had passed, and at the end of it he could
only shake his head and say :

Care, Sister Elizabeth, unwearied care,
such as he is getting may pull him through,
but he is very far from out of the wood yet.
You never deserved more credit for untiring

attention than you have shown to your present
patient ; but do recollect, my dear lady,
you over-tax your strength. If I did what
was right I should order you a week off
duty ; but that poor fellow, I'm told, seems
to miss you so terribly that I haven't the
heart to relieve you for a few days as yet."

Never mind me, doctor ; I make no
pretence that the work isn't hard, but I can
hear it so far, and will readily confess as
soon as I break down."

There's nothing like a woman for pluck,"
retorted the doctor. " And if ever a man
ought to be a judge on that point it's a
doctor who lias taken a turn in the Scutari
hospitals ; but remember, confess in time
both for your sake and your patient's."

Doctor Barry was a shrewd observer, and
although not a word had passed between
him and Sister Elizabeth, he had some idea
that Cis Calvert had been known to her informer
days. I don't mean that he for one
moment dreamt that there had been love

passages between them, but merely that
from having had some previous acquaintance
with him she took a strong interest in
her patient.

Although Cis Calvert at last began undoubtedly
to regain strength there was one
thing that puzzled the doctors, and that was
that it seemed impossible to arouse him
from the apathy into which he had fallen.
It seemed as if the mainspring of his life was
broken : he ate and drank mechanically ; he
sat at the open window, for he was strong
enough now to sit up for a few hours each
day, and gazed over the blue waters of the
sea of Marmot with a far-away gaze that
looked as if he barely took in what was
passing before his eyes. Nothing puzzled
Doctor Barry more than Cis's lack of interest
in what was going on around him,
and the question was whether the severe
shock he had received had not affected him
mentally. Still there were numerous cases
on record in which the body had recovered

before the mind, and it might be that it
was so with Calvert.

"If we could only rouse him it would be
either very much for his benefit, or we
should know the worst ; but while he
remains in his present state it is impossible
to know the extent of the mental mischief. "

As for Lizzie Daventry, she had good
reason to apprehend the worst. That this
man had never loved her she knew ; but
then, considering what had been between
them, he should still fail to recognize her
seemed almost incredible. True, she was
dressed in very different fashion from what
he had ever seen her, and she had never
allowed him to suppose by either word or
gesture that she had ever seen him before ;
and yet she felt sore at times, that all the
care and patience she had lavished should
not only go unrequited — that she was
prepared for — but even apparently unrecognized.


The fact was, that all Cis's mental faculties

had been utterly unhinged by the injuries
he had received : he lived in a stupor. To
this minute he rather imperfectly comprehended
where he was. They had told him
he was in the hospital at Scutari, but the
whole thins was vague and undefined to
him. He spent hours endeavouring to
collect his scattered thoughts. How did
he leave India % How did he get into the
midst of that melee, where shot and shell
hissed so angrily ; where rifles cracked, and
sword and bayonet-thrust were so fiercely
distributed ? Who was this woman who
watched so tenderly over him ? He had
seen her somewhere before, but where ?
And then he would give the whole thing
up as a riddle past understanding. After
all what did it matter ; as to whether he
lived or died, he felt quite indifferent. Dr.
Barry was right ; Cis required something to
stimulate his well-nigh dormant mind.

Still as the weeks slipped by, and he
gathered physical strength, there could be

no doubt that Cis's mental faculties were
also recovering ; very slowly, it is true ; but
close observers like Dr. Barry and Sister
Elizabeth could see that day by day he
began to take more notice, that the dazed
expression was fading from his face, and
although still very languid and spiritless, his
perceptions were evidently awakening. One
morning there came a packet of letters from
the Crimea addressed to Captain Calvert,
Scutari Hospital.

They had been taken in the first instance
to the big hospital, from whence they had
been sent on to the branch establishment for
officers, where Cis was slowly battling his
way back to life.

"There is news come for you from the
Crimea, Mr. Calvert," said Sister Elizabeth
in her sweet low tones, as she glided softly
to the window at which Cis was seated.
As they are directed ' Captain Calvert
I can only trust they tell you your late
gallantry and sufferings have been recognized,"

and so saying she placed the
packet in his nerveless hand.

He gazed vacantly at them, but made
not the slightest effort to open the packet.
She stood looking at him for some minutes,
and. then calling to mind that Dr. Barry
had said what benefit a stimulus of some
sort would probably be in the arousing of
Cis's mental faculties, said quietly :

Should, you like me to read them to
you ? "

She was so much accustomed to do this
for those in her charge who were badly
wounded, as well as to write letters to their
friends at home for them, that there was
nothing: in the least out of the way in her
volunteering to do it in Calvert's case. She
knew how he had. sold out, and, volunteering
again, had joined the Fusiliers as an Acting-lieutenant.
She had followed his career
closely since, sometimes through the papers,
and sometimes patients that she nursed had
given her news of him, for Cis had made

VOL. III. p

his name in the Second Division as one of
the most dashing juniors in the trenches.
She hoped these letters contained the news
that his gallantry at the Quarries had been
rewarded by restoration to his old rank.
Lizzie Daventry was a plucky woman, but
if she had suspected what was before her, it
may be doubted whether she would have
volunteered this service.

"Thanks," he murmured, "if you will be
so kind. Stupid I know, but attempting
to read makes my head spin."

Sister Elizabeth broke open the packet,
which contained three letters, one of which
was unmistakably the hand of a woman.
Sister Elizabeth selected one of the other
two, and breaking it open commenced reading
its contents.

Camp before Sevastopol,
August 10th, 1855.

Dear Cis,

Grouse shooting just about to
begin, and they can't make it very much
hotter on the moors on the 12th than it's

getting here. Every one says we are pretty
near the final go-in now ; in fact the waste
on both sides is getting too severe to continue.
The ordinary trench casualties are
upwards of forty a day, — that's of course
without counting sorties or other like dissensions.
The French have got within
about thirty yards of the Malakoff, and
amuse themselves by pitching soda-water
bottles charged with gunpowder, and a slow
match run down the neck, into the Euski
trenches. And I hear if you're tired of life
you've got nothing to do but to look over
the parapet and you are in the next world
in no time. A fellow who was round their
advance trenches the other day told me he
saw one of their officers just raise his kepi
on a ramrod above the parapet and there
were three bullets through it before you
could wink. And now, old man, how are
you getting on % We all want to know,
because you were a terribly broken affair
when we sent you away. Do scrawl us a line
just to say you've pulled through, or if you
don't feel up to it yourself, ask either your
nurse or your doctor to write for you.

P 2

I've one bit of glorious news for you —
I say you advisedly, because all our fellows,
like myself, are very sorry about it, but w T e
know you will be pleased, and we are not
such a selfish set of beggars as to grudge
you your well-earned promotion. The field
officer in charge of the attack spoke most
highly of your conduct. The chief strongly
recommended you for promotion, and old
Coppleston applied for you to fill a vacant
troop in your old regiment. And, Cis, my
boy, you've got it. We all congratulate you
most heartily, but hope you'll not forget the
turn you did with the Fusiliers, and I'm bid
tell you by every one that when we all get
home you must remember in future that
you have two regimental dinners to eat
instead of one.

Ever yours,

Jerry Arkwright."

A faint smile played over Calvert's
countenance as the letter was finished.
He knit his brows and looked curiously at
the reader, and Sister Elizabeth suddenly

awoke to the consciousness that he was
paying far more attention to her than to
what he had been listening to. She doubted
indeed whether he had quite taken it in ;
still that interest of some sort had been
aroused in him was evident. She picked
up the second letter and commenced to read
that to him. It is not worth while to give
this in extenso. It was from Harry Har-parley,
and was jubilant with congratulations
over Cis's coming back to them as a captain,
winding up with anxious inquiries about his
health, and an earnest request for a few lines
as soon as ever he w x as able to write them.

And now there only remained that third
letter, and Sister Elizabeth's usually cool,
steady hand trembled slightly as she broke
the seal. She knew intuitively, as women
do know these things, that letter was from
that girl in England, the love for whom had
steeled Cis Calvert's heart against her fascinations.
And she was right ; it was Annie
Aysgarth's letter she held in her hands ; and

then she did what few of the men who had
known Lizzie Daventry would have given
her credit for. As Lizzie Daventry Cis
Calvert would never have heard or seen that
letter ; as Sister Elizabeth she nerved herself,
and read it through unfalteringly to
the end. And then, as she recognized the
wealth of love that was in it, and that she
had nursed this man back to life, only to
restore him to her rival, she gave way, and
could no longer restrain a slight sob. She
was w T weak, it must be borne in mind, with
the watching and hard work she had done
of late ; and then through the whole of her
frivolous life, be it remembered, this was
the one man for whom she had ever had
a pure affection.

Suddenly a smile flickered round Cis's
mouth. Annie's letter had rekindled the
dormant memory, recognition gleamed in
his face, and in a low voice he exclaimed,

Lizzie ! "

CHAPTER X.

CONVALESCENT.

Dr. Bark was struck next morning by
the change in his patient. " Why, you area
different man, Captain Calvert, from what
you were twenty-four hours ago. Only goon
like this and we shall soon have you in
the saddle again."

The doctor had heard in the convalescent
house of Cis's promotion, and knew that he
was about to be restored to his old rank
and his own regiment.

Wonderful what the intelligence of
promotion does for them ; that bit of news
was the very stimulus to his mental faculties
we wanted. It has brightened him up no
end — eh, Sister Elizabeth ? "

"That had nothing to do with it," rejoined
the Sister, quietly. " I know, because
he was so weak and dazed that I read the
letters to him, and more indifference than
he displayed at hearing of his promotion
was simply impossible. But you are right,
Dr. Barry, he did get the stimulus, though
it was in another form : he got a letter
from the girl in England he is or was
betrothed to, and that did for him what
neither you nor I could effect."

During; the silence of the night Lizzie
Daventry had once more become master
of herself. There was no quiver in the soft
voice this morning; ; no one could have
guessed the sharp agonies she had gone
through but yesterday. She had not seen Cis
this morning as yet, having been in reality
so worn out by her late long vigils and the
violence of her emotions for sleep to have
become a positive necessity, only arrived at
by resort to. a soporific. Now, however, she
once more stepped noiselessly to his bed-side.

"Lizzie," ejaculated Calvert, as he saw
her.

Sister Elizabeth, if you please, Captain
Calvert' she replied quietly; "remember
I have buried my past ; I will say no more
than that you assisted at its funeral. From
the day I set foot in Constantinople I began
a new life. We have crossed each other's
paths for a brief space, and shall part
shortly, never to meet again. I am glad
that I have been of some use to you in
your hour of need."

"Use," returned Cis, "I know that you
have saved my life ; I know that but for
your unwearied watching and tireless care
I should have died. I am too weak to say
more, too weak to thank you at present,
but, bear in mind, I know it."

I have done no more for you, Captain
Calvert," rejoined Sister Elizabeth, iu low,
measured tones, " than I have for many
others. If I have watched perhaps rather
more carefully over you, it was simply

that we have rarely had a case that required
such vigilant nursing. You have rewarded
me by the only means in your power,
namely, becoming convalescent — I trust to
be able to add. well again, before Ion or."

She lied, and she knew it. Done no more
for him than others ! She had nearly killed
herself from pure jealousy that another
should hand him cup or smooth his pillow,
but he must never know it ; his heart
belonged to that woman in England. And
then she wondered if any of those men
she had fooled in India had ever suffered
as she was doing. She thought of that
young dragoon up at Simla, whom she had
lured to his ruin at her husband's bidding ;
she remembered all the story of that gun
accident on his way down to rejoin his
regiment, and she knew that rumour said
there had been very little accident about it,
and that young Goring had deliberately
taken his own life. She could recall now
the agonized face with which he bade her

good-bye, and begged her to keep a ring
he drew from his finger as a remembrance.
But for her fatal smiles she knew that he
would never have frequented her husband's
play-table ; and as she became conscious
of the dull aching at her own heart she
marvelled did men suffer like this ? Suddenly
she experienced a strange giddiness,
and had to catch at the balustrade of the
landing: to save herself from falling;. She
had had one or two of these little attacks of
late, and knew in reality she had been
taxing her strength too highly ; but she
was resolute to complete her task, though
she had not as yet considered what a crowning;
trial might vet be in store for her.

One morning, a day or two after this, she
entered the ward, and found Cis Calvert
with a pen in his hand, sitting dreamily
over a sheet of paper.

I am glad, Captain Calvert," said Sister
Elizabeth softly, "to see that you are
strong enough to write ; I should hardly

have thought you were, and, as your nurse,
hope you will make it brief."

Cis turned to her with a puzzled expression
; the pen was shaking in his feeble
fingers, and it was evident that the concentration
of his ideas was a matter of much
difficulty.

A sharp spasm shot across Sister Elizabeth's
face, but it was gone in a moment.
She knew now what she had to do.

Would you like me to write that letter
for you, Captain Calvert ? " she asked :
you are still too weak to write it for
yourself ; and I've served as an amanuensis
to many of your comrades under similar
circumstances."

I'm afraid I must ask you ; I don't
seem able to rightly recollect things somehow,
and don't feel able to make this
pen go straight."

I will say all you wish," replied Sister
Elizabeth, as she seated herself at the little
table. " I must say it in my own person,

because, of course, whoever I write to will
know it is not your own handwriting.
Who is it to be to ? " and Sister Elizabeth's
head was bent low over the paper as she
asked this question.

Miss Aysgarth, please : tell her how ill
I have been, and all about me ; say my
name is clear, and that I have never ceased
to love her."

Convalescent Home, Scutari,
August 15th, 1855."

And here Sister Elizabeth paused. How
was she to begin this letter. She felt she
could not write " Dear Miss Aysgarth." She
thought for a moment, and then resolved
to commence without the usual formula.

I write this at Captain Calvert's request,
who, I regret to state, although
slowly recovering, is still as yet too weak to
hold a pen himself. He was very badly
wounded, and when we first got him here
we entertained the gravest apprehensions
concerning him ; but I think I may safely

say all that is past. And now for his message
: he bids me tell you that his name is
cleared, that he loves you, has never ceased
to love you, and looks passionately forward
to seeing you again when the work here is
over. If I do not write at greater length,
Miss Aysgarth will, I am sure, excuse it,
for our hands are always full, and time is a
most valuable commodity with us.
Sincerely yours,

Sister Elizabeth."

Had poor Cis been capable of much
thought he would have felt a little curious
as to how his letter would be signed, but he
had never quite known the extent to which
scandal had coupled his name with that of
Mrs. Daventry. He was in ignorance that
in the Madras Presidency he was very
generally supposed to have eloped with
Lizzy, although they had not gone away
together. This bit of gossip, however, had
never reached Yorkshire, or else Annie Ays-
garth's letter would never have been penned.

I'll read it over to you," said Sister
Elizabeth, " and then you will be able to
see if I have said exactly what you wanted.
Will that do ?" she asked, as she finished
reading.

So many thanks," replied Cis feebly ;
but I want you to put in a postscript.
Add that it is to your devoted care that
I owe my life, and that I am as grateful as
I have strength to be."

Sister Elizabeth made no reply, and then
with firm hand and unfaltering pen wrote
her postscript. What she said was this :

Captain Calvert has covered himself
with glory. We are all very proud here of
our soldiers in the Crimea, as no doubt you
are also in England, Miss Aysgarth ; but of
none are we prouder than him."

Her hand never trembled, her pen never
faltered, and yet can crueller trial be meted
out for woman than to have dictated to herby
the man she loves a letter containing the
avowal of his undying passion for a more

favoured sister ? But though Sister Elizabeth
showed no outward sign, it could
hardly be imagined that her heartstrings
were wrung.

Three or four more days and Cis misses
his nurse, and misses her sadly. Men sore
shaken in nerve and body are wont to lean
to an unlimited extent upon those who
watch over them ; more especially do they
succumb to the kindly presence of a woman
near their sick-bed. In answer to his
inquiries he was informed that Sister Elizabeth
was not well, and needed rest ; the
days glided by and still he saw nothing
of his late nurse ; but Cis was gathering
strength rapidly now, and by persistent
cross-examination of those about him he
soon extracted the truth, namely, that Sister
Elizabeth was seriously ill, and he was not
likely to see her by his bedside again.
Poor Cis, he puzzled in his still somewhat
benumbed mind as to what he could do
to show his gratitude for all she had done

for him. It was difficult to say ; but at
last the inspiration came, and from that
moment every morning there arrived for
Lizzie a basket of flowers, the choicest
money could purchase, with Captain Calvert's
anxious inquiries about her health.
And this perhaps was the brightest hour in
Sister Elizabeth's day ; for her turn of prostration
had now come, and she was struck
down with low hospital fever induced
probably by over-work and the violent emotion
she had of late gone through. Dr.
Barry from the very first did not like the
aspect of his new patient.

She has overdone it," he said, " in spite
of all my cautions. I warned her not to
over-tax her strength, and what the result
would be of so doing. Now she has got
this low fever, and a very limited amount
of vitality with which to fight against it, I
hope and trust she will pull through ; and
mind," he said, turning to the attendant
nurse, " she must We cannot afford to lose

VOL. III.

her. Should she go the wrong way she
will have died for England as much as any
of those who fell in the Crimea."

One afternoon came down that long
deferred despatch which announced that
Sebastopol had fallen ; how that the French
had carried the Malakoff with a rush at midday,
and had spent the whole afternoon in
savage fighting in the Karabalneia suburb.
How that the English got into the Redan
only to be driven out again ; and how
about midnight the Russians had blown up
all their magazines and sullenly retreated
across the harbour to the north side of the
city, leaving a hospital full of wounded
behind them. There was much jubilation
in Constantinople, as may be supposed, and
now the guns had ceased to boom in the
Crimea, the cannon like the bells were resonant
in London and Paris, and well misdit
the Turk and Western Powers rejoice. If we
had got Sebastopol at last we had undoubtedly
paid pretty heavily for its possession.

Cis Calvert is limping along the terrace

in front of the convalescent house two or

three days after the news of the fall of

the famous Chersonese fortress had reached

Scutari. Although it was three months

since he had been wounded he was still

very lame, and could only walk with the

assistance of a stick. He had been what is

technically termed "Hit all over;" and in

addition to his crippled leg had but very

limited use of his left arm. He reaches a

bench, when with a salaam the young

Greek, whose duty it is to bring him

flowers, comes up to him and submits the

daily offering he sends to Sister Elizabeth

for his inspection. As he turns his head he

sees two figures at the end of the terrace

that make his heart jump. He passes his

hand hastily across his eyes — is it all a

dream ? for he is aware that his head is still

a little confused at times. No ; a second

glance, and surely it is Annie Aysgarth and

her father who are coming towards him.

Q 2

Cis grips the back of the bench hard-crippled
as he is he moves with no little
difficulty ; and in the present whirl of ideas
occasioned by the sudden appearance of
his fiancee, feels simply incapable of moving
a step. Another minute and Annie has
sprung towards him ; her arms are round
his neck, and her lips laid to his.

My dearest Cis," she exclaimed, as she
withdrew blushingly from the embrace in
which he had held her, "it is something to
find you still alive, although your poor face
shows only too plainly all the suffering you
have gone through."

I can't say how glad I am to once more
shake you by the hand, Calvert. There are
so many of the cheery lot I used to dine
with in the old barracks at York whose palms
I shall never clasp again. More than once
I feared that it might be the same in your
case, and that I might never be able to tell
you how ashamed I, like many others round
York, felt that we should ever have doubted

you for a moment. You are still terribly
crippled, the doctor tells me."

Yes," returned Cis as lie shook hands ;
but the doctor tells me that I shall be all
right in time."

Yes, Cis, dear," said Miss Aysgarth ;
"and papa and I have come out expressly
to take you home with us. You can be of
no good here till you are well again. We
have had a talk with Dr. Barry, and he
says total change of air and scene would
be the best thing for you. And that, moreover,
after such a terrible time as you have
gone through it would be simply useless
your attempting to go to the front again
for some months."

Another thing, too," chimed in Julian
Harperley ; " now Sebastopol has fallen, the
general opinion is, after our late bitter
experience, that it is too late in the year for
further operations ; and I hear the probability
is that we shall winter where we are,
and not commence the game again before

the spring; besides, you must remember
that you are now back again in the — th
Lancers, and those who should know at
Constantinople tell me it is in serious contemplation
to send all the Cavalry down
here for the winter."

Miss Aysgarth seated herself on the bench
beside Cis, when the Greek, who had been
an impassive observer of the meeting between
Cis and his friends, quietly inquired,

Me take flowers as usual, sar ? "

What lovely flowers ! " exclaimed Annie.
Who are you sending; them to, Cis, dear ? "

They are going," replied Calvert,
gravely, " to Sister Elizabeth, the lady who
wrote to you for me, and to whose devoted
care I'm indebted for being alive at this
minute. I am sorry to say that she is very
seriously ill, and cannot help thinking that
the unceasing vigilance with which she
watched over me may have been in some
sort the cause of it."

"Do you think they will let me see her,

Cis ? " exclaimed Miss Aysgarth ? " Do you

think they would let me watch over and
nurse her, and so endeavour in some shape
to slightly repay the large debt of gratitude
we both owe her ? "

Cis thanked his sweetheart by a glance.
I can only say, Annie," he rejoined, " that
the utmost you can do for Sister Elizabeth
will never repay what she has done for me.
As a man and a cripple I can only feebly
express my profound sympathy with her in
her illness by daily offerings of fruit and
flowers, but you may be able to do more."

And if I can, Cis, it will be clone, never
fear. I have got to look after you a bit,
my own, of course ; but the woman who
has put her life in jeopardy to save you forme
deserves every bit of strength and love
that lies in me."

Excuse me, Annie," interposed Julian
Harperley, "but I think our unexpected
arrival has been a little too much for
Calvert in his present state of health. If

you are to turn nurse you must bear in
mind the weakness of your patients."

Oh, how stupid of me ! Of course.
Thanks, papa. Cis, dear, you must take
my arm, and don't think that I'll spare
myself about Sister Elizabeth if I am
allowed to help. I am not always so
foolish and inconsiderate as I have just
been ; thinking only of my own pleasure
in once more seeing you, instead of your
shaken health. Come, papa, beef-tea and
perfect quiet is what he requires now,
isn't it ? "

And the faint smile with which Cis
responded to the suggestion showed it was
not made before it was needed.

sister Elizabeth's farewell.

Dr. Barry began to be seriously uneasy
about Sister Elizabeth. " Her weakness is
extreme," he muttered, " and she seems to
have no strength or vitality left with which
to battle with this low, wasting fever."
There was no light-headdress — simply utter
prostration ; but she seemed to grow feebler
daily, and her life, like the sands of an hourglass,
seemed trickling steadily away. Miss
Aysgarth was incessant in her inquiries, and
begged hard to take her turn in nursing the
patient.

My dear young lady," said the doctor,
if we were short of help I would accept

your assistance with the greatest possible
pleasure ; but this is a very critical case,
and you must forgive me if I prefer leaving
it in skilled hands to trusting it to an
unpractised person like yourself. I am sure,
Miss Aysgarth, you would be unwearied,
but, you see, you lack experience. Her
noble devotion has been such that if anything
happens to her I shall feel that I
have lost the most precious life confided
to my charge since I left England."

If I may not nurse her will you tell
her that I am here ? She wrote to me in
England about Cis — Captain Calvert. No ;
why should I be ashamed ? I mean Cis.
I am going to be married to him, you
know."

Well, I thought it looked a little like
it when I saw you on the terrace with him
the other day. Pray accept my hearty
congratulations, Miss Aysgarth."

Thanks very much, doctor ; but it was
Sister Elizabeth saved him for me, as

you know well > and as Cis knows also. Can
you not understand how very anxious I
am to help her in her hour of trial \ Don't
think for one moment that I wish to intrude
my incompetent self when there are abler,
but none more willing, nurses at hand.
But, doctor, I do claim the right to be
made unsparing use of, should you ever
see the opportunity'

Day after day Sister Elizabeth grew
weaker and weaker, and each morning
brought not only fruit and flowers, but
sweet, loving notes of sympathy from
Annie Aysgarth to the broken woman :
unknown heart-pricks that, could she have
dreamt of, Annie would have cut her right
hand off sooner than have written. But
of course neither the doctor nor Miss
Aysgarth could have the slightest idea of
the petty stabs the latter was unwittingly
dealing ; while as for poor Cis, Sister
Elizabeth's perfectly calm, collected manner
had made him utterly forget that she had

once entertained what he would probably
have described as a penchant for himself ;
and yet if he had only recalled that last
scene with Lizzie Daventry in India, he
must have been compelled to admit that a
penchant rather inadequately described the
feeling she had for him.

But the idea came now to Sister Elizabeth
that she should never more leave the
bed in which she lay, and with it a sense
of relief and contentment that her weary
battle with the world was so soon to cease.
What had she to look forward to in this life ?
And she felt that the efforts she had made
of late for the sufferers from the Crimea
were some atonement for her previous
career. Do not for one moment imagine that
she was dying from a broken heart. She
was sinking, as many another noble woman
has fallen before and since, from low,
wasting, hospital fever. But if hearts don't
break, a heart-ache goes far to aggravate
such complaints ; and it makes a terrible

difference to the doctor's skill when his
patient shows no desire of clinging to life.
As the conviction possessed Sister Elizabeth
that her days were numbered, there suddenly
came upon her a strange desire to
look upon this woman who had been preferred
before her. The impulse to see
Annie Aysgarth grew stronger daily. It
would matter nothing to her now — the fierce
jealousy that had once torn her breast was
gone ; she felt she could see this girl now,
and place her hand in that of Cis's with a
smile. Surely Miss Aysgarth would not
grudge her one kiss of his lips before she
died.

Sister Elizabeth's mind was at last made
up, and on Dr. Barry's next visit she told
him of her wish. The doctor fumed and
fidgeted not a little ; if there was one thing
he particularly did not wish for his patient
it was anything like emotion; and yet,
only he was quite unaware of the fact, it
had been administered to her of late in

matutinal closes. To see a stranger at anytime
lie would have pronounced bad for
her just now. But the doctor had some
experience of woman-kind ; he knew that
she had taken considerable interest in
Captain Calvert, and what seeing a man's
acknowledged fiancee means to any woman
under these circumstances he could pretty
fairly conjecture. Still Sister Elizabeth
was so persistent in her wish, that he came
to the conclusion at last, refusal might do
her more harm than an interview with Miss
Aysgarth could possibly do. He knew how
invalids sometimes fretted, and thought to
himself that he should be able to caution
Miss Aysgarth to exercise the greatest
control over herself, so that, albeit somewhat
reluctantly, he at length promised
that Annie should pay her a visit about
noon the next day, the period at which
invalids are usually at their best.

I have only one stipulation to make,"
said Dr. Barry, " and that is, I must limit

the length of this interview ; you really, injustice
to yourself, cannot afford to talk to
any one for long, and shall caution Miss
Aysgarth, and shall depend upon her adhering
strictly to my injunctions."

Miss Aysgarth listened attentively to the
doctor's admonitions, and promised to conform
with them to the very best of her
ability.

"Don't allow her to indulge in emotion,
nor permit yourself to do so either. That
you should feel strongly with regard to the
woman who has saved your lover's life is
only natural, and that Captain Calvert owes
his life to her I tell you admits of no doubt
whatever ; but, Miss Aysgarth, you must
remember her life hangs upon a thread, and
I should never have acceded to her request
only I think that denial may possibly do
her more harm than letting her see you.
No woman in Scutari has done nobler
service, no more precious life will have been
sacrificed than hers if she dies : her tenure

of existence is so frail that much emotion
may kill her ; and, therefore, I must look
to you to preserve a composure you will
probably not feel, and to restrict your interview
to a quarter of an hour."

Thus sternly cautioned, Miss Aysgarth
was the next day ushered into the quiet
room on the upper story where the stricken
woman lay. Annie gazed with no little
surprise on the pale, worn features which, if
they had lost that majesty of beauty which
had characterized Lizzie Daventry when we
first encountered her, were perhaps more
lovely now than ever, in consequence of
the spiritualized expression gathering over
them as she neared her rest. The dark hair
was drawn loosely round the well-turned
head, for her illness had been such as necessitated
no despoilment of her tresses, and
Miss Aysgarth stood simply amazed at
Sister Elizabeth's appearance. No one had
ever hinted to her that this woman was
beautiful, and yet Annie thought that she had

never seen anything more lovely than this
sick nurse. On a small table by the bedside
were a bunch of grapes and the flowers
which Cis Calvert had sent that morning.

"Miss Aysgarth," said Lizzie, in a low
tone, " will you come and sit, please, by
my bedside ? I have wanted so much to
see you, and had to plead so hard before
Dr. Barry would allow it. He meant it for
the best, but I have a presentiment that
nothing will make much difference to me
now. Don't think for one moment that I
have any wish to die, but I feel quite
resigned to death should Heaven please it."

I trust," interposed Anne, " that though
you are doubtless very ill you are destined
to be saved, even as you have saved so
many others. Dr. Barry knows that I am
at his disposal should there be any question
of extra nursing."

Thank you, no ; every possible care is
taken of me, my slightest wish attended to ;
I wish to see you, Miss Aysgarth, because I

VOL. III. R

wanted to see the woman for whom I
had saved Captain Calvert. No man ever
loved a woman more dearly than he loves
yon. He is true to you as steel. But a
year ago, and I was counted handsome. It
i3 over, and I can tell it you all now. If I
could have won your lover from you, Miss
Aysgarth, I would, but he never wavered in
his allegiance, and I, who had never failed
before to bring any man to my feet I
wished, was fain to confess myself defeated.
Can you guess now why I sent for you ? "

I think so," replied Annie, as the tears
gathered in her eyes. " I can understand
your wishing to see me, and from the
bottom of my heart I am grateful to
you for affording me the opportunity of
thanking you for all you have done forme.
I shall owe to you what I hold most
precious in this world." Here her voice
faltered, and she paused for a second before
gasping out — " Cis."

Oh Annie, Annie! *. is this complying

with Dr. Barry's injunctions about not
giving way to any emotion ?

No," replied Sister Elizabeth, " I want
more than that from you ; I have told you
that in the insolence of my beauty and the
madness of my passion, I did my very best
to win your lover from you. I have told you
that I failed utterly. I have endeavoured to
honestly make what atonement I could for
trying to wrong you. Can you lay your
lips to mine and say that you forgive me
this attempted wrong ? Eemember I ask it
as one who must shortly kneel before Him
by whom all sins are forgiven."

Dr. Barry's injunctions were scattered to
the winds. Annie Aysgarth with the tears
streaming down her cheeks had fallen by the
bedside, and pressed her lips passionately to
those of Sister Elizabeth.

Dr. Barry, whose anxiety about Sister
Elizabeth had caused him to hover restlessly
in the vicinity of her room, began to glance
impatiently at his watch.

R 2

Seventeen minutes," he murmured ; " I
really can't allow any more ; I was a fool to
allow it in the first instance. That Miss
Aysgarth will get to thanking Sister Elizabeth
for saving her lover's life is a matter of
course, and then they'll both begin to cry
about it. And that poor lady, with only
about enough strength to keep her alive, and
not a particle to spare for scenes. I shall go
and interrupt them at all hazards. If they
haven't got their talk over by this time, at
all events they ought to have."

Dr. Barry's sharp tap at the door made
Annie Aysgarth spring quickly to her feet,
and it was hopeless for Annie to conceal
either her tears or the emotion under which
she laboured.

"Miss Aysgarth," said the doctor in a
very determined voice, "you have broken
your promise ; I must insist upon the immediate
termination of this interview. What
you two women have been saying to each
other of course I can't conjecture, but this

conversation has done my patient no good
I'm quite certain."

Annie did not trust herself to speak, but
pressed Sister Elizabeth's hand, and mutely
left the apartment in obedience to the
doctor's behest.

It's too bad," growled the doctor as he
approached Sister Elizabeth's bedside ; " if
there's one thing, my dear lady, that I want,
it is that you should husband the little
strength you have left. Scenes take it out
of one, and that's just what you two ladies
have been including in."

Doctor," replied Lizzie, as she stretched
out her hand to him, " it matters very little
now ; all that can be done for me I know
has been, and will be, done by you, but
don't deceive yourself ; I know when I leave
this bed it will be only for that colder and
narrower one in which we must all some
day lie. I'm sure you would wish your
poor assistant's last days to be spent as
tranquilly as possible. You must be good

to me — I want to see Miss Aysgarth daily —
to know her as well as my brief stay in this
world will permit. Promise me I shall have
my way in that."

The devil's in the women," muttered the
doctor, not without a suspicion of tears in
his own eyes at hearing his favourite nurse
endorse a terrible thought which he had for
days been struggling to combat, namely,
that she was destined to succumb to the low
fever from which she suffered. " My dear
lady, you know I wouldn't deny you anything
except for your own good. Still it is
my duty as your physician to say that the
quieter you are kept the better."

Quite so, doctor," replied Sister Elizabeth,
in a voice which if low was perfectly
resolute. " Still you will do as I wish, and
I say emphatically I must see Miss Aysgarth
every morning. No one can be more sensible
of all the care and kindness you bestow upon
me than I am, but you will do as I ask, even
if it is against your own convictions. There,

leave me now ; you will do what I tell you
I know ; I am tired."

Dr. Barry walked down-stairs more sad
than perhaps he had ever left any patient's
bedside previously, but from henceforth
there were no further restrictions on Miss
Aysgarth's visits, and not a morning passed
that Annie did not spend some time in the
room of the dying woman.

But the mornings, alas ! were few, and
even sanguine Dr. Barry could no longer
shut his eyes to the fact that his patient was
doomed. Ere ten days had come and gone,
when Miss Aysgarth took her accustomed
place by the bedside, Lizzie whispered in
reply to her kiss of greeting :

It is very near the end now, and if you
don't mind I should so like to say goodbye
to Cis ; you w T on't grudge me one last
interview."

Grudge you," returned Annie ; " think
of what I owe you. I believe, from the
bottom of my heart, and I know all the

people here would say the same, that you
would have given your life for his. Cis,
believe me, would have come to see you
Ions; before had he been allowed."

Only another morning or two and Annie
leads Cis up the staircase, and conducts
him to Sister Elizabeth's bedside. The
stricken woman greets him with a faint
smile as she stretches out her hand.

I could not go, Cis, without wishing
you good-bye. Your betrothed has been an
infinite solace to me during the last few
days. Women have been jealous enough of
me in days gone by," she continued, with
just a spark of the old coquetry; "but no
one, I think, can feel that of me now. You
won't refuse, Annie dear," she added, turning
her eyes wistfully towards Miss Ays-
garth, "to allow me to say good-bye to him
alone."

Miss Aysgarth's sole reply was simply a
pressure of the thin fingers, and then she
silently left the room.

It's been a hard world to me, Cis,"
murmured Lizzie, as she stole her hand into
his. " I know I've not been a good woman.
I don't want to justify myself altogether at
the expense of others ; but, as you know, I
was thrown a mere school-girl into Anfflo-
Indian society, and that is rather a thorny
road for any one as young as I was to travel
under such guidance as was vouchsafed me.
My husband caught my fancy, but no one
ever touched my heart till I met you. To
have won you I'd have staked everything.
My fair fame, position — but why repeat the
old story ? You can remember what I said
at Secunderabad ; and I would have done it
without a second thought. It's far better
as it is, Cis, dear. I'm going home fast,
and it is a comfort to me to think that this
one true love of mine was pure and unstained.
Indian scandal travels home, we know ; and
whether Annie Aysgarth ever heard your
name coupled with mine I can't say ; but
she knows from my own lips that you never

swerved in your allegiance, though I confess
to having done my best to win you from
her."

You know, Lizzie, that when we met I
had no love to give. You were the greatest
solace to a sore-tried, broken man amidst
a community he disliked, and in a country
he detested. What you have done for me
here, I, as well as all the hospital, know.
But for you and your unwearying care I
should probably not be alive at this minute,
and my bitterest thought at present is that
you may pay the penalty of that devotion."


A sweet smile stole over the dying
woman's face as she murmured :

"Never call it a bitter thought, Cis. I
should like your wife to say in days to come,
Sister Elizabeth gave her life for him, and
would have given ten if she had had them.
Now kiss me once, dearest, and then say
good-bye. I am very weary, aud shall be
glad to be at rest."

Cis leant over the bed and pressed his
lips to those of Lizzie Daventry.

Good bye," she murmured, "for ever.
Send Annie to me for a little while."

Cis walked into the corridor and motioned
silently to Miss Aysgarth, for the brine was
in his eyes, and there was a strange choking
in his throat, which forbade him to trust his
voice.

And when the sun rose next morning
Sister Elizabeth lay cold and still, locked in
the dull apathy of death. If her past life
in India was not good to look back upon,
surely she made ample atonement by the
noble work she did in the Scutari Hospital.

CHAPTER XII.

CONCLUSION.

The dark-blue waters of the Bosphorus
danced in the October sunlight as they
swirled past the Seraglio Point, and hastened
to pour themselves into the Sea of
Marmot, which glistened like a silver lake
'neath the golden beams. On a small grassy
plateau at a little distance from the hospital,
which was already decorated with a sad
sprinkling of memorial crosses, stood bareheaded
a little knot of people, who had
come to bid Sister Elizabeth a final farewell.
Julian Harperley was there, as was also
Miss Aysgarth. Cis Calvert also stood
there with moist eyes. He had managed

to hobble to that grave-side with the assistance
of his frances arm and a stick. He
believed implicitly that the dead woman
had given her life for his. Dr. Barry also
stood by that open grave with a twitching
of the mouth as he listened to the solemn
words of the Burial Service, highly unprofessional,
but indicative of the high esteem
in which he had held Sister Elizabeth. Tenor
a dozen bare-headed men and boys were
also present, and the tears stole from the
eyes of more than one of them as they
thought of all they owed to her who was
gone. Several of the staff of the hospital
were also present to pay this last tribute to
their friend.

A handful of mould drops upon the
coffin as Sister Elizabeth is laid to her rest
" Earth to earth, ashes to ashes. "

Sadly did the little group of mourners
disperse, and Julian Harperley would fain
have given immediate orders for the handsome
marble cross destined to mark the

grave ; but he speedily found that he was
not to be allowed to do this by himself.
Many of Sister Elizabeth's old patients insisted
upon contributing towards a stone to
her memory, and finally, a very handsome
granite obelisk marked the last resting-place
of poor Lizzie Daventry.

There seemed no reason now why Julian
Harperley and his daughter should not at
once take their invalid home with them.
He was quite well enough to bear the
voyage, and Dr. Barry even said it would be
beneficial to him ; but the banker lingered
in the faint hope of catching a glimpse of his
son. He had ascertained from undoubted
authority that the cavalry were to be sent
down from the Crimea for the winter ; and
this resolution once come to it was not
likely the authorities would delay putting
it into execution. The winter was fast
closing in upon them, and the bitter experience
of last year had shown that the traditional
turbulence of the Euxine was no

exa operation. So he and Annie had secured
a ramshackle house in the vicinity of the
hospital, and there, with the assistance of
some servants picked up in Constantinople,
they managed to bivouac somehow.

Miss Aysgarth was sitting lost in day-dreams,
an unheeded book lying open in her
lap, when a pair of arms were suddenly
thrown round her neck, and a boisterous
kiss imprinted on her cheek.

Oh, Cis dear," she murmured, " how
did you manage to get up-stairs without
help ? "

Cis dear," replied her brother's laughing
voice ; " it's some one infinitely dearer and
more precious that Cis. My dearest sister,
look round and then return thanks to Providence
that your brother is restored to you."

How glad I am to see you, Harry,"
replied Annie, as jumping up she turned
round and warmly reciprocated her brother's
embrace. We have been lingering here just
to have a peep at you before returning

home. Papa will be so pleased ! — have
you seen him 1 "

No ; we only got in about two hours
ago. Should never have known you were
located this side if it had not been for a
jolly old cock of a doctor. He came onboard
as soon as we anchored, and as soon
as he found out we were the — th Lancers
he told us Cis was all right again. Then
he asked for me, and told me you and the
father were living this side. I thought, of
course, you were living on the other. I
got leave from the chief to come off with
Dr. Barry as soon as he had finished business.
The regiment don't land till too



morrow."

"How bronzed you have got, Harry,"
said Miss Aysgarth ; "and you really have
a moustache now."

"That's like your sisterly impudence,"
rejoined Harry; "just as if I hadn't when
I left York."

A girl would never have discovered

it, though you kissed her," said Annie,
laughing.

At length Mr. Harperley made his appearance.
He had been on board ship
to look for his son, only to ascertain that
his son had gone on shore to look for him.
But they had met at last, and now the
three indulged in an unrestrained gossip,
during which Harry gave his opinions about
the course of the campaign with a confidence
and freedom that would have electrified the
Allied Generals, could they have heard him.

Get in," said the boy ; " of course we
could have got in when we first came up
there ; all the infantry fellows say so, only
the Generals couldn't make up their minds
to try it. Balaclava, of course, was a
beastly mistake, except for one thing."

And what was that ? " inquired his
father, not a little amused at the crowing
of his own cockerel.

Why, we cavalry chaps would have

been right out of it but for that ; it is
vol. in. s

the only chance we have had. Dash it,"
he continued, " we always are out of it.
Here they are, having dog-hunts, private
theatricals, steeplechases, rides through the
Baidar valley to the Ports Pass, and all
sorts of fun, and here we are sent down to
this disgusting old graveyard."

Again the banker laughed ; his sense of
humour was tickled by the boy's off-hand
criticism ; but at the same time he felt no
little fatherly pride in the idea that this
saucy son of his was one of the famous
Six Hundred.

Suddenly Harry stopped in his military
criticism, and exclaimed :

But look here, I must see dear o]d Cis !
Upon my word, if I go back without having
seen him, I believe the fellows will run
me up at the yard-arm. Walk down to the
hospital with me, won't you 1 "

All right, Harry," exclaimed Miss
Aysgarth. " One moment, while I get my
hat, and then we will walk down and see

Cis. He is still very lame, you know, and
has by no means recovered the use of his
bridle-arm, but he will be awfully glad to
see you."

"Not so glad as I shall be to see him,
for, as I dare say you can guess now, when
Jerry Arkwright and I put him on board
ship we felt very doubtful whether we
should ever see him again in this world."

So the trio walked down to the hospital,
where Cis was most unfeignedly glad to see
his old comrade. He thoroughly enjoyed
the long chat about the doings at the front,
and the story of the fall of Sebastopol.
There were old friends to ask after, and
to inquiries about some of them came the
sad response that they were quietly sleeping
on Cat-heart Hill. At last Harry
Harperley sprang to his feet, and exclaimed
as he wrung Cis's hand :

Well, good-bye, old man ; it's awfully
jolly to see you becoming your old self
again. I must be off, and get on board

S 2

at once, for we disembark tomorrow, and
the chief, as you know, don't stand overstaying
leave, under such circumstances.
The fighting all done with for the present,
we are going to have a real gentlemanly
winter this year, if only in contradistinction
to the one we passed last. Like Julius
Caesar and all the other ancient military
swells, we have gone into winter-quarters ?
and mean to refrain from punching each
other's heads till the primroses are about
again. But I fancy things will be lively
enough when the spring comes round. And
now, once more, good-bye, old fellow."

They all shook hands with Cis, and
Julian Harperley and Annie walked with
the young Lancer to the landing-place, saw
him jump into a caique, and recede rapidly
in the brilliant moonlight, on his way to
the transport. They stopped for some
few minutes watching the glittering showers
that fell from the oars of the sturdy Greek
boatmen, and then turned and walked happily

home. For the present the banker
and his daughter had cause for much heartfelt
satisfaction; had they not got the two
near and dear to them safe out of the
hurl y burly for the present ?

A week passed pleasantly away, while
Mr. Harperley and Harry did all the lions
of Constantinople and its neighbourhood.
Miss Aysgarth devoted herself to taking
the greatest care of Cis, who she was still
sure required the utmost attention. At
the end of that time the banker and his
daughter and Calvert embarked for England,
leaving the young Lancer behind them in a
by no means depressed state ; a cavalry race
meeting was already in active organization,
and that consoled Harry in some measure for
the lost dog-hunting delights of the Crimea.

Dr. Barry proved right, and thanks to
the fresh sea-air and the thorough change
of scene Cis picked up strength rapidly.
Still he was very lame, and bore unmistakable
tokens of the severe illness through

which he had passed, when his fiancee
carried him triumphantly home to the Firs
with her. No sooner was it known round
the country-side that Captain Calvert was
engaged to Annie Aysgarth, and staying
with the banker, than all his old acquaintance
hastened to call upon him. The
country was proud of her heroes in those
days as these, and not only was this one who
had distinguished himself, whom they had
all known, who was about to take to himself
a wife from amongst them, but to whom
also they owed some little reparation for
having doubted him concerning that unfortunate
business at Crockley Hill. Annie
was at first made supremely happy by the
revulsion of feeling in her lover's favour,
but soon she began to get much disquieted
about the state of his health. A man does
not go so near the verge of the grave as
Cis Calvert and recover in a few months.
The cold of the winter tried him severely,
and as is so often the case, the maimed

limbs were very susceptible to rheumatic
affection. The arm he was slowly recovering
the use of, but the doctor said that he
would assuredly limp to his dying day.

Nobody had welcomed Cis home more
cordially than the Charringtons. If the
lady was an embroiderer she was at all
events not a malicious one. And though
she had been only too willing to believe
in both the York and Indian stories to
Cis's detriment, yet she really was glad
to find they were unfounded. Then she
had all the interest a woman invariably
feels in an engagement, albeit Miss Ays-
garth had not plighted her troth to the
man she, Mrs. Charrington, had selected
for her. As for Charrington, he would sit
and talk Crimea with Cis as long as he
could induce him to descant upon the
subject. He even buried his jealousy of
Crymes when he heard how ruddily gilt
was his sabre when he returned from that
terrible ride up the valley of Balaclava.

But as the spring-time came round Cis
began slowly to recover the lee-way he had
lost in the winter, and at the same time the
papers teemed with rumours of peace.
There could be very little doubt about it
now ; an armistice had already been agreed
upon, and the remainder was pretty w r ella
matter of detail. That the evacuation
of the Crimea and the return of the army
would be a mere matter of time was certain.

And now Julian Harperley began to
urge upon his son-in-law, that was to bea
desire that lay near his heart. He could
not quite bear the idea of parting with his
daughter, and what he was very anxious
for was that Cis should leave the service,
make the Firs his home, and come into the
bank as his partner. He knew that it was
not good for a man to have nothing to do,
but the war was all over, and though Cis
was not incapacitated from resuming his
profession, still he was undoubtedly lame,
and so at a considerable disadvantage in

it. He could ride fairly, but not as he
once did ; and, moreover, although sufficiently
at home in the saddle when he
got there, he could not at present get up
without the assistance of a horse-block or
some such aid. Annie strenuously supported
her father's arguments ; her heart
had lived too much in her mouth during
the last year not to make her wish that
Cis should have done with the service. So
at length it was settled that as soon as
the regiment came home Calvert should
send in his papers, and the wedding-bells
be set a-rinoinsf.

With the early June days the Crimean
army began to swarm home. Transport
after transport poured alongside the dockyards
of Portsmouth and Davenport, and
discharged their living freights. As much
as could be collected of the infantry, at
all events, bronzed and bearded, paraded
in the drizzle at Aldershot to receive the

thanks of their Sovereign. And a perfects*



swirl of spray flew from the bear-skins of
the Guards as they cheered Her Majesty
in response. That once got over, leave
was granted pretty freely to the officers
of the Crimean army, and Harry Harperley
speedily made his appearance at the Firs.
They had been only waiting for this, and
a fortnight after his arrival Cis Calvert
and Annie Aysgarth were duly united in
the Minster.

One of the handsomest presents that
the bride received upon the occasion was
a dianiond-and-cat's-eye bracelet, presented
by Major Crymes. The Major has never
married, but hunts pretty regularly with
the York and Ainsty, and there is no more
valued or constant guest at the Firs, when
he is in the neighbourhood.

THE END.

BUNGAY : CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS. 5- & H-
