ILLINOIS LIBRARY

AT Urban nl spain

BOOK. JKS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/fromposttofinish01smar

% $tcwt.

HAWLEY SMART,

Author OF " Breeze LANGTON," " THE GREAT TONTINE," " AT FAULT.
HART) Lines," &C. &C.

Looked as though the speed of thought
Were in his limbs: but he was wild,
Wild as the wild deer, aud untaught."

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL, I.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.
1884.

(All right reserved.)

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

5-

3\

THIS ROMANCE

Is Betricatefc

TO

GEORGE MEREDITH,

AT WHOSE SUGGESTION IT WAS
WRITTEN.

CHAPTER I.

'phaeton's leger."

The chains are up on Doncaster Town
Moor, and, although the sun has not yet
topped the horizon, through the dull grey
of the early morning a knot of half-a-dozen
people might have been discerned
grouped around the famous winning-post.

You are sure you have made no mistake,
Grey son,' 7 said a tall, slight, saturnine
man of forty or thereabouts.

No, sir," replied the trainer. " I

VOL. I.

./

have measured them at home, I think,
pretty correctly ; and you will find it as
I tell you, that, though Caterham is the
best of the pair, the other is about good
enough to win this Leger with. But you
will see for yourself in another minute.
I can just catch the beat of their gallop ;
they must have reached the Red House
by this."

The rapid thud of horses advancing at
full speed was now distinctly audible ; a
few seconds more, and four horses flashed
past the winning-post ; the foremost with
a three-quarters of a length lead.

It's as I told you, sir," exclaimed
Greyson, the trainer. " Caterham' s won;
but you can see he's not very much better
than Phaeton. The old horse, too, is a
good third ; and that shows you that the
form is pretty true."

Oh, Lord ! what a coup" exclaimed
a short, pursy little man, who was one of
the spectators. " It ought to about make

all our fortunes. To think of having the
first favourite for the Leger, and a second
string in the stable good enough to win
with."

It looks like good business, Sam,
doesn't it ? To bet against Caterham
and trickle our money on to Phaeton is
our game for the next forty-eight hours.
The only thing is, old man, that all this
wants doing with a good deal of care.
Remember, Caterham must remain first
favourite till the fall of the flag, and
therefore our hostile demonstration must
not be too pronounced; while as for
Phaeton, although we must back him to
win a big stake, I want there to be pretty
liberal odds against him till the very last.

Beg pardon, sir," said the trainer;
u but do you mean to give the Squire a
hint of this? It's notorious, you know,
that Mr. Rockingham has backed the
favourite for a very large stake "

Let my cousin look to himself," reb

2

plied Cuthbert Elliston, bitterly; "if he
had stood to me last year I should have
felt bound to give him a hint of the way
things stand; as it is, let him take his
chance with the public generally''

Take the horses home, Tom, as quietly
as you can," said the trainer, as the four
competitors in the trial walked up to him.
"It was about all out of Caterham, I
suppose ?"

Yes, Mr. Grey son. I'd nothing much
in hand; 'twas just about as much as I
could do to get rid of Phaeton at the
finish ; and, what is more, I fancy he
stays just a bit the best of the two."

A very nice trio were the three men
who, the trial over, walked back from the
Town Moor to breakfast at the Salutation
that Monday morning before the Leger.
Cuthbert Elliston, the first cousin of
Alister Rockingham, lord of Crawley
Chase, was about as evil a specimen of a
gentleman blacken as it was possible to

encounter. It was the old story ; a man
of moderate means, he had gambled
fiercely and wildly, and the pigeon of
early days was now transformed into
the unmistakeable rook. All feeling of
honour was dead in the man's nature, and
either in the tactics of the turf or the card-table
there was very little that he would
shrink from. He might hesitate about
concealing the king up his sleeve at
ecarte, but he would have had no scruples
about pursuing that game with an antagonist
half-bemused by wine. Similarly
on the turf ; as long as he escaped the
jurisdiction of the Jockey Club he was
utterly unprincipled in his proceedings.
He and Mr. Sam Pearson, attorney-at-law,
were the joint proprietors of a few horses,
and trained at William Greyson's, a
clever man in his profession, but with a
somewhat shady reputation. As it so
happened they were this year joint proprietors
of a colt called Caterham, which,

having won the Two Thousand and
finished third for the Derby, was, owing
to the going amiss of one of his Epsom
conquerors, and the non-entrance of the
other in the Doncaster race, now first
favourite for the Leger. And that the
British public were likely to have an extremely
bad race of it the trial we have
seen and the conversation we have overheard
pretty clearly indicates.

Arrived at the Salutation, the three sat
down to a regular Yorkshire breakfast, a
thing which, an you are a breakfast eater,
is by no means to be despised, and over
the broiled ham and game pie as delectable
a robbery as was ever concocted at
Doncaster — and this, by the way, is saying
no little, was planned.

* * #

It is the day of the great race, and the
crowd are pouring up the avenue that
leads to the famous Moor, upon which for
more than a century the Blue Ribbon of

the North has been decided. The street-preachers
shriek forth their vehement
denunciations side by side with the three
card-men hoarsely vociferating that you
do not name the Queen of Clubs for " a
croon." The quiet Yorkshire town is in
that furious state of ferment that only
occurs to it once a year, w T hen train after
train disgorges its hundreds all ravenous
for food, drink, and a bet on the Leger.
Caterham would win. How could there
be any doubt of it ? He had beaten
everything that was going to oppose him,
with the exception of some two or three
dark colts, of which little was expected.
If ever there was a race upon which it
seemed really judicious to back the
favourite this was it. And yet the pertinacity
with which the ring fielded was
wondrous strange.

There's as much seven to four going
as ever you please to write down'' said a
veteran sportsman. " I don't understand

it, Rockingham. I can't help thinking
there's a screw loose. The ring would
hardly field like this unless they knew
something. Going by public form, it
ought to be two to one on Caterham. I
can't, for the life of me, see what the
bookmakers are going for ! They are like
sheep, we all know, and only let three or
four of the magnates of the mystic circle
make up their minds to bet heavily
against a horse and the smaller fry follow
suit with wonderful rapidity. This
outsider, Phaeton, who is in the same
stable as the favourite, is nibbled at a
good deal. I saw some cleverish men
backing him last night, and again this
morning. I tell you what it is, Rockingham,
I shall just go and take the odds
about him to save myself. Like you, I
stand pretty heavily on the favourite, and
don't fancy being spilt when they're
winning with their second string ! "

Nonsense, Radcliffe ; it's little likely

that they have got anything better than
the winner of the Guineas in their stable.
No ! if Bill Greyson takes the Leger it will
be with Caterham. I am standing him a
raker, and I mean standing him out."

A tall, good-looking man is Alister
Rockingham. Although he is turned of
fifty, and his hair is shot with silver,
he is a handsome man still ; but his face
is haggard and careworn, and his lips
twitch slightly as he thinks how heavy
the stake is that Caterham carries for
him. A more unflinching gambler than
Alister Rockingham never cut card or
rattled die, but he cannot help twinges
of remorse at times when he remembers
the broad, unencumbered acres that came
to him at twenty-one, and reflects how
woefully mortgaged his son will find them
when he in his turn shall succeed. Ah !
would he succeed ? It was almost a
question, and the next hour would materially
assist in solving that riddle.

There was quite a little knot of spectators
to see the favourite make his toilet
for the great race. A right good-looking
one, apparently as fit as hands could
make him. Few troubled themselves to
look at his stable-companion, although
Phaeton would not have been pronounced
a bad-looking colt had Caterham been
out of the way.

"I suppose the colt is all right, Grey-son?"
observed Cuthbert Elliston, meaningly.


iC Quite so, sir' replied the trainer;
and Phaeton did such a good gallop
yesterday morning that he is quite worth
backing for a trifle on the off-chances''

The roar of the blatant bookmakers
waxes more and more furious as three
o'clock approaches, and the starters for
the Leger pace slowly in Indian file past
the Grand Stand. A few minutes more,
and turning round they come thundering
back in their preliminary canter. Nothing

moves better than the favourite,
and many an onlooker dashes back into
the ring to make a modest investment on
Caterham. At last the roar of the ring
is hushed, and all heads are craned forward
to gaze upon that gaudy little knot
of silken jackets that are congregated at
the foot of the slight incline that marks
the commencement of the great Doncaster
race. Two or three breaks-away, and
then the fourteen runners for the St.
Leger are despatched, and the dark-blue
jacket of Phaeton is almost immediately
seen in the van.

Making running for his stable-companion!"
exclaim the multitude.

Strangling the lot," murmured Cuthbert
Elliston to his partner, Sam Pearson.
Old Greyson would never put the
double upon us."

No, it's right enough, you may depend
upon it. If Phaeton don't win it,
it'll be because he's not quite good

enough ; but anyhow you may rest assured
that whatever does win it won't be
Caterham. I've seen to that myself."

All along the far side, down away past
the Rifle Butts, the dark-blue jacket leads
the field a cracker. Still the backers of
the favourite have no cause as yet to feel
uncomfortable. He bears his straw banner
bravely in front of the ruck, and now
they come thundering round the Red
House turn. The dark-blue jacket holds
a clear three-lengths lead as they come
into the straight, and suddenly arises that
fatal shout which has made many a backer
shiver ere now.

The favourite's beat ! — the favourite's
out of it;" and through his glasses Alister
Rockingham can see that the wearer of
the straw-coloured jacket is already hard
upon his horse in the endeavour to keep
his place. They are racing in real earnest
now, and a very few strides more
sees Caterham completely done with.

One, two, three horses emerge from the
ruck, and one after the other strives to getup
to the leader; but the blue jacket
stalls off each successive challenge, and
finally glides past the winning-post half-length
to the good.

"Phaeton has won the St. Leger, while
the favourite was not even amongst the
first four.

By Jove! what a coup" exclaimed
Cuthbert Elliston, as he slapped his turf
partner on the shoulder.

"Yes," replied Pearson, who was already
running his eye rapidly over his
betting-book; "but I'll tell you what:
it's my impression, Elliston — it's my impression
this will about finish your cousin.
How deeply he's involved no one can
know better than myself. I've had to
manage the raising of the sinews of war,
as you know, for some years now ; but I
fancy that I've never had a more troublesome

job than I shall have to find the
money for next Monday."

"Bah!" rejoined Elliston ; "he has a
couple of days yet to get home in."

"Get home!" returned the attorney
with a sneer ; " you and I know what
that means. How often does any one
get out of the scrape that way ? while
the ease with which one's liabilities are
doubled is simply miraculous."

It was with a weary smile that Alister
Rockingham dropped his race-glasses back
into their case. He was a good loser,
and might have sardonically exclaimed, —
If I am not, I wonder who should be.
I've been practising it steadily for the
last thirty years, and, if I stop now, it's
simply because there's nothing left to
lose." No one but himself knew how
terribly hard hit he was by the race just
won. Plenty of his friends knew that he
had backed Caterham heavily ; but even
Sam Pearson, his solicitor, had no idea

what a tremendous plunge he had made
upon this race with a view to recovering
his losses on a most disastrous season.
Had he known the extent to which his
client was involved, it is more than probable
that, despite his partner, Pearson
would have given the Squire of Crawley
Chase a hint about Phaeton ; but, though
the solicitor could take his own line very
fairly, there was a savage concentration
about Cuthbert Elliston that made men
rather shy of quarrelling with him. He
had taken causeless umbrage at Alister
Rockingham's refusal to help him pecuniarily
a twelvemonth ago ; but, in good
truth, Rockingham had no money to
spare, and was almost as hard pressed as
his cousin.

As Rockingham descended from the
stand, a slight, handsome, dark-eyed
youth dashed up to him, with a face
brimming over with pleasure and excitement,
and exclaimed : —

"What a ripping race it was, father,
wasn't it ? And only think, I have won
twenty-eight sovereigns over it, and got
it."

u Why, where did you get your inspiration,
Gerald?"

"Well, mine came directly from old
Joseph, our coachman ; but who on earth
put him up to the fact of Phaeton being a
good thing I really have no idea. I got
twenty eight pound to two from one of
these ready-money men, and he booked
up like a gentleman as soon as the race
was over."

I wonder if it is possible to imagine a
grimmer contrast than this man who has
just experienced Fortune's finishing blow
affords to the bright-eyed Harrow boy
who has just won his first stake over that
most fascinating of all amusements, the
backing of racehorses. Ruined Alister
Rockingham was before Phaeton swept
past the winning-post ; but even he himself

as yet hardly realises what a thorough
crash it is that has befallen him. It is
the very acme of Fate. Here is young
Gerald, who has just left Harrow, and is
going up to Cambridge next month, exulting
over the winning of twenty eight
sovereigns, with an inheritance of ten
thousand a year departed from him on
the same race.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER II.

DOLLIE GEEYSON.

In Coney Street, York, dwelt a prosperous
haberdasher of the name of Grey-son.
He was a man excessively popular,
not only in York itself but with all the
country families round about the city.
Gloves, shirts, neckties, all the gentlemen
of the district vowed could be obtained at
no other place than Greyson's. Thomas
Grey son did a roaring trade, and was a
warm man in his vocation. He was
brother to that William Grey son, the
trainer, who had prepared Caterham and
Phaeton for the Leger, Though excellent
friends the brothers met but seldom, —
their paths in life diverged widely ; but

constantly through the shop in Coney
Street flitted a fair-haired little maiden,
who answered to the name of Dollie, and
who was the daughter of William Grey son.
It was not in the least that she was an
apprentice in her uncle's shop ; what service
she chose to give there she did. When
time ran heavy, and she got a little tired
of her own society, then Dollie would flit
into the shop, and take her turn in selling
gloves over the counter; and it was notable
that when Miss Grey son did take this
business in hand the young bloods of
York were apt to be rather lavish in their
orders with regard to gloves and neckties.
Dollie Greyson was staying with her
uncle mainly for this reason : masters were
attainable at York, which, of course, was
not the case on Riddleton Moor, and, in
spite of a somewhat questionable turf
career, Bill Greyson loved his daughter
very, very dearly, and was anxious, to use

his own expression, that she should have

c 2

CHAPTER II.

DOLLIE Reason.

In Coney Street, York, dwelt a prosperous
haberdasher of the name of Grey-son.
He was a man excessively popular,
not only in York itself but with all the
country families round about the city.
Gloves, shirts, neckties, all the gentlemen
of the district vowed could be obtained at
no other place than Greyson's. Thomas
Greyson did a roaring trade, and was a
warm man in his vocation. He was
brother to that William Greyson, the
trainer, who had prepared Caterham and
Phaeton for the Leger. Though excellent
friends the brothers met but seldom, —
their paths in life diverged widely ; but

constantly through the shop in Coney
Street flitted a fair-haired little maiden,
who answered to the name of Dollie, and
who was the daughter of William Grey son.
It was not in the least that she was an
apprentice in her uncle's shop ; what service
she chose to give there she did. When
time ran heavy, and she got a little tired
of her own society, then Dollie would flit
into the shop, and take her turn in selling
gloves over the counter; and it was notable
that when Miss Grey son did take this
business in hand the young bloods of
York were apt to be rather lavish in their
orders with regard to gloves and neckties.
Dollie Greyson was staying with her
uncle mainly for this reason : masters were
attainable at York, which, of course, was
not the case on Riddleton Moor, and, in
spite of a somewhat questionable turf
career, Bill Greyson loved his daughter
very, very dearly, and was anxious, to use
his own expression, that she should have

c2

the advantage of " the very best training "
money could give her.

A slight, auburn-haired girl, just turned
seventeen, Dollie Grey son was no more
ignorant of her own attractions than her
sisterhood generally. She knew that she
was pretty, and she knew that she was
nice, and that gentlemen rather appreciated
having their gloves fitted by her ;
but of all her admirers there was, perhaps,
none Dollie liked so well as young Gerald
Rockingham, the heir of Cranley Chase.
A perfectly boy-and-girl love if you like,
but schoolboys and schoolgirls, too, for
the matter of that, catch the complaint,
though not quite so sharply as their elders.
From her antecedents it may easily be
believed that Miss Greyson could ride, as
they say, " above a bit." She had, in
fact, lived in the saddle almost from childhood,
and had been accustomed at home
to ride all sorts of awkward animals. If
there was one thing old Bill Greyson was

proud of it was his daughter's witching
horsemanship. He never seemed to recognise
any danger to her on whatever he
might put her, and was wont to say, when
one of his charges turned awkward with
the boys, " We'll just hand him over to
Dollie for a month. He'll be quiet enough
by that time, I'll warrant." We all know
what the delicate hand of an accomplished
horsewoman can make of a horse, and it
really was marvellous how many of these
unruly youngsters Dolly Greyson had succeeded
in teaching manners to. Now if
there was one thing Miss Greyson missed
in York it was her accustomed horse -
exercise. Her uncle kept no horseflesh of
any description, and the few opportunities
she had had of indulging her taste in that
line had been through Gerald Rockingham.
Gerald had more than once either
hired or borrowed a horse, and taken the
girl out for a day with the York, and
Minster, and the wild excitement of those

a good race of it, and what with drinking
old Bill's health and Phaeton's, I'm a little
foggy yet as to where we've got in the
week."

Mighty glad to hear it, Mr. Croton.
My brother, like yourself, had, I fancy, a
pretty good race of it. At all events, he's
given the girl there a pretty smart dress.
Look at the little peacock fluttering her
plumes around, and printing herself out
for the benefit of that young Rockingham.
They do say," continued Mr. Greyson, ina
low whisper, ' i that the Squire's dropped
a power of brass over the race. In fact,
they say there's no such heavy loser at
Doncaster this year as him."

a Aye, I've heard as mooch, and sorry
I was to hear it, too. He's one of thereat
short is the Squire. A real good and
straight sportsman, but he's always been
a terrible would bettor. It won't be the
must time he's burnt his fingers by many,
I reckon."

Thomas Greyson shook his head in
mute reply as he turned away to attend to
another customer's account.

It must not be supposed from her uncle's
remark that Dollie Greyson was a smartly-dressed
coquettish shop-girl. Trim and
prettily attired she always was, and quiet
and modest in her manner as if born a
lady ; very self-possessed ; and if the girl
smiled at the gallant speeches occasionally
made her, no one of Tom Greyson's customers
would ever have thought of overstepping
the Rubicon with his niece. She
was, men felt intuitively, not a young
woman to talk slang to. Although only a
trainer's daughter, well as she rode, and
brought up much as she had been amongst
horses, yet no one ever heard Dollie talk
horse," and in that one particular alone
she was immensely in advance of maidens
of far higher station than herself. If some
of these damsels only knew the rubbish
they do talk on that subject, and how

they bore us, surely they would be more
merciful.

A pretty golden-haired little girl, with
the neatest of figures, tiniest of hands and
feet, and longest of eyelashes, Dollie Grey-son,
as she stands at the counter, nominally
turning over gloves for his inspection,
but in reality chattering with Gerald
Rockingham, by no means warrants the
epithet of 6i little peacock " which her
uncle has applied to her. She is attired
in a soft grey serge, trimmed with braid
to match, with snowy collar and cuffs.
William Greyson, who loved his daughter
better than anything in this world, had
sent her, not a dress, but a ?very pretty
cheque, " to buy fal-lals for herself," ashe
expressed it, wisely concluding that a
girl's millinery was a little beyond his
comprehension ; though the old trainer
was wont to asseverate, " I don't know
how it's done ; but, blame me, I do know
whether they're turned out all right when

I see 'em, and mean my girl to look as fit
as any of 'em, I tell you."

Gerald is telling Miss Greyson all
about the race, and relating with all a
schoolboy's glee how he won twenty-eight
pounds over Phaeton, and finally
he produces from his pocket a little
morocco case, and, handing it across the
counter, says in a low voice : —

You must wear that, Dollie, just to
remind you of me and the cheery gallops
we have had together."

Oh, how lovely'' exclaimed the girl
as she opened the case, drew from it a
pretty diamond and emerald half-hoop
ring, and slipped it on her finger. a How
good of you, Gerald ; but what nonsense
to think I should want anything to remind
me of you. Is it likely ? "

I hope not. Say it's to remind you
of Phaeton's Leger. Say it's an c engaged 9
ring, if you like''

If you talk like that, Gerald, I won't
keep it," returned Dollie, her face flushing
slightly and speaking seriously. "I like
you very much, am very fond of you ; but
don't think I forget that you are a Rockingham,
of Cranley Chase, while I am,"
and here she gave a significant little
shrug of her shoulders, (i the daughter of
William Greyson, the trainer. Don't
speak, Gerald, for a moment," she continued.
u I'm just as fond and proud of
my father as you can be of yours ; but
anything of that sort between us would
be ridiculous. Good comrades ever, firm
friends, if you will, dear Gerald ; but not
that last. Say it is so, or take back your
ring."

You're making too much fuss about
it, Dollie," he replied ; "it will be so
some of these days all the same. You areas
much a lady as any of the girls I meet
in society, and much jollier. Never mind

now, call the ring a remembrance of
Phaeton ; but think a little of me when
you look at it."

I shall do that, Gerald, without looking
at it. When do you go to Cambridge
? "

In about three weeks. It's a short
term, thank goodness ! for I fancy University
life is pretty dull at starting.
You don't know many fellows, and one
don't know the ropes ; however, I believe
it's all jolly good fun after a bit."

u But, Gerald, surely your people expect
you to work a bit to try to take
a degree, or something of that kind;
t hough don't quite understand what that
means "

Nonsense, Dollie; fellows like me are
not expected to go in for that sort of
thing. We go up for a couple of years,
just to make acquaintances and to be able
to say we've been there. The dear old
governor would be knocked into heaps at

my taking a degree. He wouldn't mind
it, you know ; but he'd be awfully astonished.
Phaeton's winning last Wednesday
would be nothing to such a
surprise as that."

I thought it was what you were sent
there to do," replied Dollie, simply. " I
fancied you went to Cambridge to learn
just as I came to York, only I fancied
they tested you to see if you knew things,
which they mercifully don't inflict on me.
I do my best, but should have grievous
fears of failure if tried."

No, book-learning was never the forte
of our family. We only pride ourselves
upon some very minor virtues. We are
brought up to shoot straight, ride straight,
and run straight. You know what I
mean by the latter, Dollie. We stick to
our friends and our word."

Miss Greyson was too country-bred a
girl not to hold the first two of these
virtues in considerable esteem, and she

had seen with her own eyes that Gerald
spoke truth about the riding, while as for
"the running straight," I think the most
shifty, scheming, and mendacious of our
fellows have a certain admiration for a
man who does that.

Yes, Gerald," she said, softly; "nobody
in these parts ever doubts a Rockingham,
but for all that I think you ought
to work at Cambridge."

6k You'd make a charming tutor, Follies'
he replied, laughing, " and perhaps under
your auspices I might. Byron, I remember,
somewhere advocates female teachers.
Shall I find you here when I come back
in December? "

No ; they'll want me home for Christmas.
Father would be very much put
out if I wasn't there at that time''

And your mother, too, I suppose?"

"Well," replied the girl, laughing,
she'll be glad to have me back, no
doubt, but she don't think half as much

of me as father. He never says a cross
word to me, but mother can give me a
bit of her mind when I don't please her.
In short'' continued Dollie, merrily,
father pets and spoils me, and mother
does her best to counteract it."

Then I shan't see you for ever so
long ? " said Gerald, somewhat moodily.

Oh, yes you will. I shall be back in
January time. You will have plenty of
opportunities to take me for a gallop or
two with the hounds, if your Highness
will condescend to be kind as of yore.
And now, Gerald, you really must runaway.
If every young man was as long
buying his gloves as you have been, the
business of this establishment would never
be carried on. Good bye," she concluded,
extending a tiny hand, "and thank you
so much for the ring."

Gerald shook hands, and then walked
moodily off to the Black Swan in search
of his hack. He was getting very much

in love with Dollie Greyson, which was
more than that young lady at present was
with him. She liked him very much,
was fond of him in a sort of half sisterly
fashion ; but a girl of seventeen is years
older in reality than a youth a few months
older than herself; and this was just
Dollie's case. She was not a bit in love
with Gerald, and saw quite clearly it
would be ridiculous on her part ever to
be so. She recognised quite clearly the
great difference of their stations in life,
and knew that she could never be his
wife. A bright, quick-witted, warmhearted,
impetuous little lady, but with
plenty of sound, practical common-sense.
She may display plenty of romance and
imagination later on should her affections
be touched, but at present, despite her
impetuosity, Dollie is a clear-sighted girl.

VOL.

CHAPTER III.

Crawley CHASE.

There were few more picturesque old
mansions in the Valley of the Ouse than
Cranley Chase, the seat of the Rocking-hams.
They had not come in with the
Conquest, or acquired their lands in the
spoliation of the monasteries under Henry
VIII. ; their presence in Yorkshire was of
later date, and somewhat more prosaic in
its cause. The first of the family that
had appeared at Cranley was one of Marlborough's
favourite lieutenants, who had
received his humble share of the honours
and wealth that accrued to his great commander.
The founder of the Churchill,
it is true, was not wont to let money

trickle through his fingers for the benefit
of his subordinates ; but Colonel Rockingham
thought he could not better show his
admiration for his great chief than by
closely imitating him. Like his principal,
he was reckless in battle and ruthless in
plunder. But his great stroke of good
fortune was when, thanks to his handsome
person and the influence of his patron, he
succeeded in winning the hand of pretty
Mistress Hazel, the great Yorkshire
heiress. She brought to Colonel Rockingham
Cranley Chase and many fat acres
in the Valley of the Ouse ; and when, the
wars over, the Colonel settled comfortably
down as a Yorkshire Squire, he was soon
intimate with all the gentlemen of the
country side.

The Chase, which stands about five
miles from York, a little to the right of
the Great North Road, is an old Elizabethan
red-brick house, a perfect incongruous
mass of wings and gables. A

d2

fairly big house apparently to start with,
to which each succeeding Rockingham
felt it incumbent on himself to add a
wing. It stood in a fine old park of some
two-fifty or three hundred acres, studded
with old oak and elm. That the greater
part was as draughty and uncomfortable
as all such fine old family seats invariably
are need scarcely be mentioned ; but the
modernised wing, chiefly inhabited by
the family when they were alone, was
exceedingly comfortable. When Alister
Rockingham entertained right royally, ashe
was wont to do for the York Races,
the York Balls, and such-like occasions
of festivity, then the old house was full
from garret to cellar, and the latter,
despite the fierce inroads made on it at
such times, held bravely out. Cranley
claret was proverbial, and Cranley port
and Madeira pronounced by no means
bad to take. On such occasions the big
drawing - room and dining - room were

thrown open, and, in taking his party upto
the Knavesmire, Alister Rockingham
was wont to be as regal as that traditional
Nabob, who exclaimed, u Bring some more
carriages."

Still, before the Phaeton Leger it had
been for some little time rumoured that
Alister Rockingham was in trouble ; but
the Squire kept a stiff upper lip, and
abated not an iota of his accustomed
hospitality, and people doubted whether
there was any truth in these reports. It
is possible to go on for some time after
you are ruined if you conceal all symptoms
of the catastrophe, and for a man
who has indubitably possessed property,
and who is vaguely rumoured to have lost
it, to be pronounced insolvent shows much
indiscretion on his part.

Poor Alister Rockingham ! there was
something more than pecuniary troubles
the matter with him. He had " lived his
life," as it is called, — ay, every inch of

it. Had flung the dice at " The Rooms"
in Doncaster boldly, as he had backed
favourites on the Town Moor. He had
lived a fast pace in London in the season ;
had buttoned up his kid gloves tightly ashe
called for a fresh lot of blue counters
in the Cocoa Tree on a Saturday night
to try that last desperate expedient of a
beau joueur, the redeeming a bad week
at Epsom or Newmarket, by the throwing
in half-a-dozen mains running. He might
have said with perfect truth : —

I have lived my life — I am nearly done,
I have played the game all round ;

But I freely admit that the best of my fun
I owe it to horse and hound.

It was not only, poor fellow, that his
fortune was nearly spent, but Alister
Eockingham felt that his life also was
nearly spent. There are signs at certain
periods of a man's existence when he feels
intuitively that the clock is running

rapidly down. There may be nothing
radically the matter, but he realises the
fact that the hour-glass will admit of little
more turning ; and it was with a heavy
heart that he drove home to Cranley
Chase at the end of the week destined
to be known in Doncaster annals henceforth
as Phaeton's Leger. It was a bitter
feeling to the man as he swept up through
the fine old park, and his eye ranged
over the wide undulating grass land and
gnarled old oaks, to know that it was
all gone, and that when his will came to
be read his son would find himself a
beggar. But broad acres however numerous,
or broad pieces however many, are
speedily got through when a man takes
to gambling in earnest. Alister Rockingham
had no very great right to complain ;
he had had a very fair innings, had some
big strokes of luck certainly in the earlier
part of his career; and, though things
had gone against him latterly, it had

taken him twenty years to get through
his inheritance. It was clone now, and
the Squire of Cranley Chase recognised
that Phaeton's Leger had finally ruined
him.

He had an awkward task before him,
and he knew it. Wild he had been,
gambler he had been, but no other woman
had ever compared in his eyes to his wife
Beatrice, and to a great extent she shared
his confidence. She knew they were in
difficulties; she knew things had been
going badly with him of late, but she
did not know how desperate his affairs
were.

She had done her best to dissuade him
from going to Doncaster, knowing how
costly such holidays had been of late,
and he was painfully aware there would
be much anxious questioning as to how
he had fared in the fray. As he expected,
Mrs. Rockingham met the Squire the
minute he entered the hall. She knew

the face too well not to understand that
he brought no good news home.

I'm afraid, Alister, that it has been,
as it always seems to be of late, an unfortunate
time with you. But there is no
need to speak about it now. You look
fagged, and it will be quite time to tell
me all about it, if you choose, after
dinner, dear."

She was a gentle-hearted, clever woman,
and knew well that the male creature
was wont to make confession of his difficulties
in his post-prandial moments.
Dinner over, the Squire, having finished
a bottle of champagne, began to take a
somewhat brighter view of his Doncaster
reverses. He even half-persuaded himself
that things were by no means so bad
as he had at first thought them.

Yes, Beatrice," he said, "it has been
an awkward week. Who could think that
old villain William Grey son rejoiced in
the possession of two horses, either of

them good enough to win the Leger? I
knew nothing about Phaeton, and backed
Caterham, of course, as all the world did.
I went from bad to worse all Thursday,
and a plunge to get home on the Cup
didn't mend matters."

u It's unlucky, Alister, because I know
money is scarce with us just now, and
I hear that you have sent for Pearson,
which is always an ominous sign. Still,"
she continued, with a faint smile, "it is
no use crying over spilt milk, as I have
heard you say so often ; but, Alister dear,
if you could refrain from racing in future
I think you would be a great deal happier,
and at all events you would please
me so very much."

"Well, Trixie, I think," rejoined Alister
Rockingham, with a rather grim smile,
I may safely promise you that for the
future you need have little fear of my
giving up racing — it has given me up.
As Rochefoucauld says, 'When our vices

have left us, we flatter ourselves that tee
have left them.' "

At this moment the door opened, and
in burst Gerald Rockingham, his bright,
dark, handsome face glowing with high
spirits. I don't know whether I have
quite described Gerald. He took after
his mother, who was one of those petite
brunettes that tall fair-haired men of
the Saxon stamp so delight in marrying.
When Swedenborg wrote volumes to
prove his Doctrine of the Affinities he
might have condensed the whole thing
into the one short sentence — that men
and women are very apt to fall in love
with their antithesis. Gerald was small
and slight in stature, but for all that the
boy had inherited all the hereditary pluck
of his family, whether on battlefield or
at card-table. He understood, to speak
metaphorically, "how to die and make
no sign." He was all wire and whipcord,
and would have no more thought of flinching

from the biggest fence of the York
and Minster country than he would from
standing up to a man of double his size
who had insulted him. There had never
been a Rockingham who couldn't both
ride and shoot straight, and Gerald certainly
promised to prove no exception to
the traditions of his race.

u Oh, mother, darling ! " exclaimed the
boy, as he threw his arms round her neck,
a I begin to think there's nothing like
racing. I don't know when I have had
such a jolly time as I have had this week.
I've won twenty-eight pounds, which wasn't
so bad, you know, for a young one. It's
the most glorious sport in the world — and
isn't Bill Greyson clever ? Think of his
having those two horses in the race, and
selling the public all round by winning
with the one they didn't believe in ! "

A shiver ran over Mrs. Rockingham's
face as she thought how her son was already
developing a passion for a sport which had

so sorely embittered her own life, while I
am afraid Alister Rockingham with difficulty
gulped down the execration that
rose to his lips at this encomium on Bill
Greyson's cleverness.

How was it you didn't come home
with me, Gerald?" he inquired. "I
looked for you at the station, but saw
nothing of you."

No, father ; I left a little before you.
I'm not a swell, like you, who waits for
the Monday to gather his winnings — I
got mine at once, and I wanted to stop
in York to buy something for Dollie Grey-son.
She is such a jolly girl, you know,
and as it is her father to whom I'm virtually
indebted for the money I thought
it was the proper thing to do. She is
staying with her uncle in Coney Street. V

Ah ! It's not so long ago," said Alister
Rockingham, musingly, " since that distinguished
patron of the turf who notoriously
never bets wagered the famous sixpence

with his trainer's wife against his
horse winning the Leger. He paid it set
in a magnificent pearl and diamond bracelet,
which always remained one of her
proudest possessions. I'm curious to know
what you gave your trainer's daughter ? ''

Why I gave her a ring, father, which
took about half my money to buy, but
then, you know, she's far away the prettiest
girl in these parts, and rides as
well as I do. Why you've seen her out
hunting yourself ! "

"Yes," replied his father, "I know Miss
Greyson by sight. A pretty little thing,
and, as you say, she can ride. But, Gerald,
remember I want no nonsense either one
way or the other between you and old
Bill Grey son's daughter."

You can trust me, father," replied
Gerald, proudly. " If you knew Dollie
you would know she would not even come
here as my wife without your consent and
mother's."

As Gerald continued to tell his mother
the story of his week's doings, as was his
habit, the Squire fell into a sombre reverie.
His son's triumph recalled to him those
days of his youth when fortune smiled
on him whether he gambled for love or
for money, and he winces sadly when he
thinks what is to be Gerald's fate, whom
he feels will have shortly to confront the
world, not as he himself began it, but with
a mere trifle of money at his back.

At this moment the door opened, and
Miss Rockingham (the Squire's only daughter)
quietly entered the room. It was
somewhat curious, but Ellen Rockingham,
who was some two or three years older
than her brother, was utterly different to
the rest of the family in all her tastes
and pursuits. Dark in complexion, like
her brother, and considerably taller, she
regarded such things as hunting, shooting,
and racing with disdain. She had already
made up her mind that life was a thing to

be treated in earnest, and was that somewhat
unpleasant type — a young lady with
a mission. She was convinced that the
rich did not half do their duty by their
poorer brethren. She meant well, poor
young woman, but contrived to make life
very bitter to some of the necessitous
peasantry round Cranley. It is bad enough
to have a difficulty about earning your
bread, and comes terribly hard to a good
many people in this world, but it is harder
still to be told that the absence of the
quartern loaf is owing to your own want
of energy and thrift. Miss Rockingham
was wont to be rather more lavish of
rebuke than largesse, and the impecunious
cottagers under the Cranley
sceptre infinitely preferred the sight of
the Squire's wife to that of the Squire's
daughter.

u Sorry, Ellen, that you weren't here to
welcome me at dinner."

You know, father, it was school night,

and that is a duty I am very loth to
neglect."

A parlous evening did some of these
young rustics pass at times with Miss
Rockingham. She had all the pluck and
pride of her race, and was a rigid disciplinarian.


The Squire, to tell the truth, stood justa
little in awe of his daughter. He was
puzzled at times to understand how any
daughter of his could have taken up these
peculiar views. He would have about as
soon thought of confiding his troubles or
confessing his peccadillos to the clergyman
of his parish as to Ellen. His son was too
young, and if he only half whispered his
troubles to his wife it was simply because
he could not bear to pain her.

(i I don't want to interfere with your
views of right or wrong, Ellen," he rejoined
a little sharply ; " but I think most
girls, when their father had been away

VOL. I. E

from home for ten days, would have been
thereto welcome him home, and not allowed
such rubbish as a ' night-school ' to interfere
with their doing so."

I am sorry — very sorry," rejoined the
girl, as she came over and kissed him ; w I
would not have been out of the way for
one moment if I had supposed you would
have felt in that way about it. I try hard
to do what I consider right. I have read
and thought a good deal for myself, and I
know I don't hold quite the same views as
you and dear mother, but you surely know
that I am in no way wanting in love for
either of you ? If I have done wrong,
forgive me."

"Pooh! Nonsense, girl ! " rejoined the
Squire, completely melted, as he kissed
his daughter affectionately. " Don't say
another word about it, but go and get
your dinner at once."

Thanks, father, but I don't want any.
I had some dinner at the Rectory."

"Dinner at the Rectory! Child, absurd!
They never dine there — they only eat!
Go and do as I tell you."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

CHAPTER IV.

DOLLIE AT HOME.

What they call a " Moor " down in the
West Countrey " means a large expanse
of open ground, plentifully sprinkled with
gorse and heather ; what they call a moor
in Scotland means pretty much the same
thing, with rather less gorse and a good
deal more heather ; but in Yorkshire they
have moors, and moors, — the one corresponding
to those of Scotland, the other
more closely resembling the Downs of the
Southern counties. Riddleton Moor was
one of the latter description, and over its
springy turf many a famous racehorse had
been prepared for his engagement.

Standing on its edge was a many-gabled,
comfortable-looking farmhouse, roomy undoubtedly,
neither tiled nor slated, but
thatched in the old-fashioned way; but
all kept as neat and trimly as it could
possibly be. Some hardy creepers were
trained about the walls, and interlaced
themselves over the old-fashioned porch.
A square garden laid in front of the place,
the conspicuous feature of which was a
large and old-fashioned grass plat, with
a fine old oak tree in the centre. Wondrous
handicap coups and manifold racing
schemes had been talked over beneath the
branches of that old oak. William Grey-son
was accounted clever of fence in all
matters of turf policy; but he had of late
years achieved the distinction of being
rather too astute in the management of
horses. Like many a better man, he was
suffering in a great measure for the sins
of others. His principal employers were
men whose only canon on the racecourse

was "make money," and who would
have quite pooh-poohed the old rider of
11 honestly, if you can." Greyson had, of
course, to carry out the instructions of
his employers, and their views were
simply that their horses should win or
lose, simply as best suited their betting-books.
It is only in puritanical human
nature that the employed refuse to comply
with the instructions of their employers.
Greyson was no particular saint, he
dropped quietly into the groove assigned
to him, and thought he might just as
well make money as Cuthbert Elliston
and Sam Pearson, and the consequence
was that the stable's reputation was now
of the shadiest.

A little past eight on a bright October
morning, and Dollie, looking as fresh asa
rose, emerges from the porch, walks to
the garden-gate, and glances up the road
leading to the Moor, to see if there are
any signs of her father. She hadn't long

to wait before the slight, wiry frame of
the trainer, astride of his pet cob, was
seen making his way leisurely home.

It's a treat, Dollie, to have you back
again, and find you waiting breakfast forme,"
said Greyson, as he reined his cob
up at the gate for a moment. " Run in,
child, and brew the tea ; for I'm as
hungry as a hunter. I shall be in as
soon as ever I've taken Blucher round to
the stable."

"All right, father," replied the girl;
breakfast will be ready all for you in ten
minutes. I hope the work went on all
satisfactorily ?"

Satisfactory ! " said Mr. Greyson,
rather bitterly; "I think the Dancing
Master will about break my heart. Here
have I got the best horse in England, and
I can't get a boy to sit on him ; but I'll
tell you all about it when I come in,
child."

A real Yorkshire breakfast is a thing

to sit down to for those rejoicing in a
healthy appetite, and the table at
Middleton Grange was very amply furnished.
Dollie presided there in her
mother's absence, for Mrs. Greyson was
somewhat of an invalid, and rarely, when
Dollie was at home to make the tea
for her, came down stairs until the last
possible moment. A few minutes, and
William Greyson enters the room. A
keen, shrewd face, clear grey eyes ; the
look of a man, indeed, that a shrewd
judge of physiognomy would hold you
are not likely to get the better of ; and,
unless report belied him, there were not
many who had ever had the best of
William Greyson. He walked up to the
top of the table, kissed his daughter, and
smoothed her bright golden tresses; for
if there was one thing the trainer prized
in this world it was his daughter.

"And so, father, the Dancing Master
has been tiresome this morning. Why,

that iron-grey colt is the handsomest
you've got in training, or have had fora
long while. You'll have to let me try
my hand at him after all."

God forbid, child ! He got Joe
Butters down this morning ; and you
know I don't much like putting Joe upon
account of his weight, except in dire
extremity ; he's rather too heavy."

Yes," replied Dollie, laughing; "you
see he has such an excellent appetite."

Excellent appetite ! " replied her
father querulously, as he proceeded to
make short work of a dish of fried ham
and eggs. " Ain't I always telling them
that nothing about a racing-stable has a
right to have an appetite but the horses ?
As for the bipeds, they can't be too strict
in their abstinence. Joe Butters is the
victim of gluttony. Who can say what
position he might have taken in his profession
if he could have put any restraint
on himself? But, with his passion for

corned beef and old ale, no wonder he
outgrew his opportunities."

"But, father, you know Joe's a real
good boy."

Of course he is," replied the trainer ;
"but just think how much better he'd
have been if he had been a couple of
stone lighter." And as he spoke the
trainer proceeded to help himself to some
game pie.

a And you really believe in the Dancing
Master, father?"

Undoubtedly I do, as much as it is
possible to believe in a colt with such a
fiendish temper ? But you know what
they are, Dollie ; there's no doing anything
with women or horses when they
exhibit uncontrollable temper."

Libel, father — rank libel. When
women and horses prove uncontrollable,
it is in nineteen cases out of twenty the
result of ill-treatment. Take them properly,
and you can make them do anything.

I'd wager my best frock to a
new hat that the Dancing Master and I
get on together."

Nonsense, child," replied Greyson,
sharply. " I've put you up on some
awkward ones before now, and you can
ride," he continued, proudly, " but I'm
not going to risk your life on the back of
the Dancing Master."

Never mind, father dear. I'm not
preferring any request. We don't show
to much advantage when we are kicked
off ; and, in spite of my braggadocio, I
should probably share the fate of the
others. — Ah ! good morning, mother.
We put the tea down by the fire to keep
warm for you ; and now what shall I get
you for breakfast ?"

Mrs. Greyson, in sooth, was somewhat
of a trial to her husband — it was not
altogether her fault ; but continuous ill-health
is wont to sour ordinary tempers,

and Mrs. Grey son was apt to be a little
waspish in her remarks about things
generally. She could not get about to
see after things herself as she had done
in days of yore, and, had she been
allowed her way, would have kept Jolliest
home as her vice-agent. But William
Greyson was much too proud of his
daughter to stand this sort of thing, and
insisted that she should go into York and
have the best " training " money could
buy her. No man who is not a thorough
autocrat is of much use at the head of a
racing-stable, and William Greyson was
not only that, but thoroughly master in
his own house as well, and his wife was
quite aware of the fact that when he
really had made up his mind there was
no disputing it.

The butter's not quite what it ought
to be," said Mrs. Greyson, querulously.
Now you are at home, and not taking

lessons on the piano, or flirting about your
uncle's shop, you might keep an eye on
the dairy."

"I don't think there's much fault to
find," replied Dollie, cheerfully. u Jeanie
knows her work well, and requires little
supervision."

Don't you fret yourself, wife," said
William Grey son. " You can't get about
now to see after things, of course ; but
you taught them all their work in the
days you could so thoroughly that the
domestic machine runs pretty smooth
now."

Very good of you to say so, William ;
but I can see plenty of shortcomings,
though I can't get about to see after
them now-a-days."

Mrs. Greyson was a little hard on her
husband, and even her friends, in this
respect. She undoubtedly suffered from
ill-health, and, after the manner of many
invalids, she persistently dangled this

fact before their eyes as if it were a
virtue.

Under the tree in front of the house in
the meantime might have been observed
in conversation the offending Jeanie and
Joe Butters, the head lad of Grey son's
stables, a short, sturdily-built man of
seven or eight-and-twenty.

Jeanie, my dear," he observed, " you
look uncommon nice, you do, this morning.
You're as plump as a partridge, and
that's a real virtue in your sex, while for
us men, especially when we have to do
with racing, it becomes quite criminal."

Well, Mr. Butters, you know you're
not near as stout as you were. It's very
odd that we should take such different
views of things. You say that you don't
like a girl to be too thin, but mercy onus,
I live in perpetual fright of losing my
waist. But you look tired. Suppose you
come into the dairy, and I'll give you a
glass of fresh milk."

There now, that's just where it is ; if
there's one thing I should like it would
be a draught of fresh milk, and to ascertain
exactly how far it is round that waist
of yours, but, bless you, milk means blubber,
and when you give up your mind to
horses you can't afford that sort of thing.
Tired indeed! I should rather think I
was. That grey brute has put me down
once, ran away with me twice, and blessed
near pulled my arms out this morning.
A nice article to keep on the premises, he
is. I wish he'd kill somebody at once,
and have done with it."

"Oh, lor, Mr. Butters! Don't talk in
that way. Why you know it would be
more likely to be you than anybody else.
Of course they hand him over to you because,
as we all know, you're the best
rider in the stables."

u Well, my dear," said Butters, in the
most patronising way, " I know I'm not

so dusty, and if it wasn't for my disgusting
weight I'd pretty soon let 'em see at
Newmarket what I can do — but that
Dancing Master — oh, Lord. Come in,
Jeanie, and get me a mug of ale."

Joe Butters, having given up his weight
as a problem utterly beyond his own control,
confined himself now simply to severe
abstinence from such saccharine matter ashe
had no particular craving for. Milk
in the morning was a thing that Mr.
Butters admired from a very abstract
point of view; he took much credit to
himself for his abstention in such little
things, but before he strolled off to his
own quarters I'm afraid there were two or
three little matters that he had solved
thoroughly to his own mind — namely,
that the Biddleton Grange ale had not
deteriorated, and that it was quite possible
to get his arm comfortably round Jeanie' s
waist.

Dollie ! " suddenly exclaimed Mrs.
Greyson, " may I ask how you came by
such a ring as that ? "

Certainly," replied the girl, as she
drew it from her finger and handed it
across to her mother. " Mr Gerald Rockingham
gave it me directly, and you,
father, gave it me indirectly. He bought
it for me out of the money he won over
Phaeton's Leger."

Bill Greyson couldn't refrain from a
slight start at his daughter's speech. No
one knew better than he what had
happened to the Squire of Cranley Chase
over that race.

He was so pleased, father— exulted so
much in his winnings, that he insisted
on giving it me as a memento of landing
his first stake."

66 A more costly stake, perhaps, never
was won," muttered Greyson to himself.
He's a chip of the old block, Dollie,
and has begun early, like his father before

VOL. I. F

him; but I think it would have been
better for the Squire if he'd never set
foot on a racecourse. There's wildish
blood in all these Rockinghams, and that
sort as a rule don't make good gamblers."

You don't mean, father, that Mr.
Rockingham lost a great deal of money
at Doncaster, do you ? "

Yes, my girl, that's about what it
comes to. It was hard, but it's not altogether
my fault ; as a thorough sportsman
and belonging to the county, I tried
all I could to make them give him a hint;
however, they wouldn't do so, and as it
chanced I never had an opportunity myself."


That, then, I suppose, will come very
hard on Gerald ? " rejoined Dollie, opening
her large grey eyes to their fullest
extent.

"Yes; that and a few similar scrapes
that the Squire has got into," replied her
father, drily.

I am very, very sorry," replied the
girl, gravely. " It almost makes me dislike
my ring. I feel quite grieved Gerald
should have spent so much of his money
on it."

You needn't distress yourself much on
that account," replied her father. u That
amount will make very little difference to
what I'm afraid last Doncaster cost the
Squire." And with this observation the
trainer strolled out of the room.

What age is young Mr. Rockingham
? " inquired Mrs. Greyson.

Just a few months older than myself,"
said Dollie ; " he's going to the University,"
and then she quietly followed her
father's example, and left the room. She
had no fancy for talking about Gerald
Rockingham to her mother.

F2

CHAPTER V.

DEATH OF THE Squire.

A cold January day, and the bitter northeast
wind swirled through the avenues of
Cranley Chase, making the old oaks creak
again. In the principal street of the
little village men stopped each other,
despite the keenness of the weather, to
ask what was the news from the great
house ; for all Cranley knew that the lord
of the Chase lay dying. The village
doctor had said openly at the Rockingham
Arms that it was a question now not
of days but of hours. The famous London
physician had been down, at Gerald's
earnest request, only to shake his head

solemnly, and say that there was no more
to be done. On the Squire's family his
mortal sickness came like a thunderbolt ;
but it was no surprise to Alister Rockingham
himself, who had long been conscious
that life's machinery was giving
way ; for himself he could have turned
his face to the wall and met his doom
calmly ; but his end was terribly embittered
at the thought of those he was
about to leave behind. He knew very
well what little provision there would befor
them, and felt that it was he himself
who had steered the ship upon the
breakers. It may be doubted whether
even Alister Rockingham himself was
ware of how utterly ruined he really was.
He did as men sometimes do under such
circumstances, — sent for his solicitor, Mr.
Pearson, and his cousin, Cuthbert Ellis-ton,
in the vague hope that they might
devise some salvage out of the wreck, and
very shortly after their arrival the Squire

breathed his last, confiding the interests
of those nearest and dearest to him — had
he only known it — to the very two men
who might, an they willed, have saved
him.

It is the day after the funeral. Alister
Rockingham has been laid to his rest withall
due pomp and ceremony in the old
churchyard where so many of his race
lie sleeping. His tenantry and the villagers
— who, indeed, may all be included
in the former category, as Cranley for
the most part belonged to him — have
stared their hardest at the sombre pageantry,
and many of them shed tears at
the grave-side of one who, reckless as he
may have been of his own affairs, had
always proved a kind landlord.

Seated in the library of the Chase were
Samuel Pearson, solicitor, and Cuthbert
Elliston. On the table between them
stood a decanter of sherry and a plate of
biscuits.

Well, poor Alister has gone at last,"
said Elliston. " I suppose you've got the
will there all ready to read to the widow
and her children ?"

Yes," rejoined Pearson; "just as he
backed horses when they had no chance
to win, so he made his will when he had
no money to leave."

Is it as bad as that?"

Yes," returned Pearson; "the old
place is mortgaged down to the conservatory
; the house to the top rafter."

You must have feathered your nest
pretty well," observed Cuthbert, with a
sneer.

D n it, Mr. Elliston, I'll not stand

such language from you ; as if you hadn't
had your share of the cake."

"Chut! man; keep your temper. Weare
not children who, having eaten the
kernel, quarrel over the shells. I suppose
that last Leger about finished him."

"Yes; the poor Squire would have it

that Caterham must win. You, I, Bill
Greyson, and Broughton, the bookmaker,
thought he couldn't, and when we think
they can't win "

They generally don't," interrupted
Elliston ; " which shows what good judges
we are, especially when they are in our
stable. I suppose the widow will have to
go?"

u Yes ; Cranley Chase must come to the-hammer,
and there will be a very slender
income left for Mrs. Rockingham to live
upon."

And that young cub will have to
turn out and get his own living ? "

That's so. You don't like that boy,
Mr. Elliston, but he's popular with the
people about, and few of them would call
him a young cub."

u I hate the whelp, and I don't care
who knows it. I hate his mother — she
always distrusted me, and taught him todo
the same''

1 don't know that she was altogether
wrong to do that," observed Pearson,
musingly.

Confound it, sir, what do you mean?"

I thought we weren't to quarrel. I've
just sent word to Mrs. Rockingham, to
say that I want to see her on business,
and she has replied she will be here in a
few minutes."

The words had hardly left his lips when
the door opened, and the widow, attired
in her sable draperies, and accompanied
by her daughter, entered the room.

I have here," said Pearson, " your
lamented husband's last will and testament,
but it is my painful duty to inform
you that he died a ruined man, and that I
can see no possibility of averting the sale
of Cranley Chase."

u Oh, Gerald, Gerald, where are you?"
exclaimed the sorrow-stricken woman.
u I cannot understand it all ! Oh, my son,
come and talk to these men for me ! ''

FROM POST TO FINISH.

I am here, mother," said Gerald, who
had entered the room noiselessly just intime
to overhear his mother's last words ;
what do you want of me?"

"It has been my painful duty," interposed
Pearson, "to explain to Mrs. Rockingham
the true position of her affairs— to
break to her, in short, the sad fact of her
ruin, and that Mrs. Rockingham should
be very much upset at hearing it is only
natural ; but the truth had to be broken
to her sooner or later, and I thought it
more judicious that she should know of
it at once''

"And I think Pearson's right," broke
in Elliston. " It's no use shilly-shallying
when an ugly story is to be told. It's a
bad business, Beatrice, but you will have
henceforth to face the world with very
narrow means; while, as for you, Gerald,"
he continued, almost brutality, " this
means an end of Cambridge. I don't
suppose you'll be doing much good there ;

you'll have to turn to now and get your
own living."

"That is my business," retorted Gerald,
sharply. " Neither my mother nor myself
are likely to consult you about our
affairs."

"You're surely not mean enough to
think of living on her?" sneered Cuthbert.


Certainly not," answered Gerald, his
eyes sparkling with passion. " But it's
nothing to you how I propose to earn
my bread and cheese."

"Well," rejoined Elliston, as if bent
upon irritating the boy, "you can ride
and shoot — there never was a Rockingham
that couldn't. I should suggest your
turning under-gamekeeper or pad-groom."

Gerald sprang forward, and had not
his sister caught him by the arm, and
Mr. Pearson thrown himself in front of
Elliston, the youth would undoubtedly
have struck him.

Do control your temper," said Ellen
Rockingham, and for a few seconds more
the young fellow's eyes flashed, and the
veins in his forehead stood out. Then
with a violent effort he controlled himself,
and said with sarcastic courtesy : —

Thank you for your advice. In the
mean time, as I presume for the next few
days Cranley Chase is still ours, allow me
to point out that neither my mother nor
myself are in the mood to entertain visitors
at present." And as he concluded Gerald
motioned significantly to the door. A
furious scowl came over Elliston's face,
and for a moment he seemed disposed to
break out into a torrent of recrimination,
but finally followed the example of his
young cousin, and rejoined:

Good-bye, I wish you success in either
of your new vocations. "

Pearson gathered up his papers, and ashe
followed his companion out of the room
whispered in his ear :

If that wasn't a direct hint to go, I
never got one."

I mistrust that man, Gerald dear,"
said Mrs. Rockingham. " He detests you,
and I'm sure that he led poor Alister into
many of his more serious scrapes. Whenever
they went racing together your poor
father always lost."

"And my cousin Cuthbert ?" inquired
Gerald.

1 1 I don't know. No one, I fancy, ever
knew much about his affairs, but I have
a suspicion that your poor father paid for
him many a time when things went against
him."

"You need not fear my making him
my confidant," said Gerald. " He has
always disliked me from my boyhood."

Mr. Gerald Rockingham would have
been mightily offended had any one presumed
to hint that was still not quite
over.

"But, Gerald," interposed Ellen, "you

surely have no idea of turning groom or
gamekeeper ? Of course, we must do our
duty in that state of life into which it has
pleased God to call us, but anything of
that sort would be so very humiliating
for a Rockingham ! "

She had her mission, and her own ideas
of doing good, but under no circumstances
must there be any debasement of the family
name.

No, Ellen," said Gerald, as he wound
his arm round her waist, "I don't, of course,
know what I am going to do yet, but I
don't suppose I shall turn my attention
to either of those pursuits. Still it is
very difficult to get something to do when
you have been brought up to do nothing.
I'm not a clever fellow, you know, and it's
rather difficult to say to what I could turn
my hand. Of course, mother, we shall
have to leave Cranley Chase, but they are
sure to give us decent time to arrange
that. The sale of a big landed property

is not managed in a moment. When you
and Ellen are comfortably settled somewhere,
then I shall begin to look about
me."

The boy seemed transformed ; the knowledge
of the loss of his inheritance seemed
to have made a man of him. Already he
was facing the situation in the way men,
if they have any " grit " in them, do face
ruin.

"It comes hard upon you, Gerald," said
Mrs. Rockingham, as she kissed him ; "but
remember I could never bear to hear a
word against your father."

"As if I would ever utter one against
him. He was the beau ideal of a Yorkshire
gentleman. And if the old place is
gone, why we must just make the best of
it. Do you think, mother dear, that Pearson
has been quite honest in his dealings?"

I cannot say. Your poor father placed
implicit reliance upon him, especially in
all cases of raising money."

u I shall ride into York tomorrow,
and ask Mr. Writson to act for me in the
settlement of our affairs. He has the reputation
of being an honest man, and
though I don't suppose he can do much
for us, yet he may be able to save something
for us out of the wreck. There are
one or two people I want to see besides''

The one or two people that Gerald
wanted to see besides might have been
condensed into Dollie Grey son, whom he
found had just returned to her uncle's
after spending her Christmas holidays at
Riddleton Grange.

The next day accordingly saw Gerald
riding into York. Mr. Writson, a shrewd,
able lawyer, gave him but cold comfort.
He said he should be happy to do his best,
but was afraid that Mr. Pearson had only
too accurate a knowledge of the Squire's
embarrassments. " Indeed, sir," he continued,
" I regret to say that it has been
rumoured for some time that Mr. Rockingham

was in difficulties. However, as
I said before, if you wish me to act for
you I will."

That point satisfactorily settled, Gerald
made the best of his way to Coney Street.
Dollie was not in the shop, and, walking
straight up to her uncle, Gerald asked if
he could see her. He had so often taken
the girl out riding that there was nothing
unusual in this request, and Thomas Grey-son
replied at once.

Yes ; you'll find her in the sitting-room
upstairs."

He found Dollie busy at the piano. She
turned round when she heard the door
open, and exclaimed, holding out her
hand, —

Oh, Gerald, I am so glad to see you
again, and I am so sorry for you, besides,
for, of course, we have all heard of your
loss."

Yes, though not perhaps the whole of
it. I have come to say good-bye to you.

VOL. I. Q

When I put that ring on your finger last
September, and wanted you to consider
it an engaged ring, I honestly meant it.
I looked forward in a few years to making
you my wife. But it has all altered now.
I am simply ruined. Whether you would
have said ' Yes ' I can't say, but I only
know that as soon as ever I came of age
I should have asked you to marry me."

And if you had been the heir of
Cranley Chase, I think I should have said
No,' although I love you very dearly ;
but now I am yours, whatever your position
in life may be, whenever you come to
claim me."

Ah, Dollie," he replied, gravely, " you
don't know how complete a wreck it is.
What is left will barely support my mother
and sister, and how I am to get my own
living I really don't know, unless I follow
the advice that brute Cuthbert Elliston
gave me. He told me I'd better turn
pad-groom or gamekeeper. And it's

bitterly true, Dollie. I can shoot and I
can ride, but I think I like riding best."

u Can ride ! " cried the girl with sparkling
eyes ; " I should think you can !
You remember the famous day when you
got leave to take me to Ascham Bogs.
What a day we had ; but splashed, torn,
and dishevelled as I was, we did see the
finish of that run by hook or by crook,
and there were many good men of the
hunt who didn't."

"Ah! well, Dollie, I suppose I'd best
go for pad-groom, or something of that
kind."

Stop ; I have an idea. Listen to me.
You have often laughed, and said what
a practical little woman I am. If you
turn groom, Gerald, you'll remain a groom
all your life ; and, though I'll be your
wife all the same, I don't want that for
your sake. Come into father's stable. He's
a hard master, I know ; but you will at
all events see me a little, and I can, 



laps, make things easy for you. Father
will do anything for me. Remember
stable-boys become jockeys, and jockeys
in these days make fortunes."

u But wouldn't he recognise me ? "
No. Your father has not trained
with mine for many years. I know he
never saw you at Doncaster last year ;
and even if he has seen you once or
twice he will never recognise the heir
of Cranley Chase in the stable-boy seeking
a situation. But I shall, Gerald,
dear."

By Heavens ! I'll try it, Dollie."

CHAPTER VI.

Middleton MOOR.

About three months have elapsed since
Gerald made up his mind to follow Dollie
Greyson's advice. Both men and horses
are pretty busy upon Riddleton Moor this
March morning, for the racing season is
now in full swing, and the trainer knows
that his charges are wanted just as often
as he can get them ready. William
Greyson's is not a large stable ; still he
has a tolerably good string, there being
some sixteen or eighteen horses doing
their work on the Moor this morning,
some taking walking exercise in their
sheets, some of them, divested of their

clothing, doing good steady canters at
different distances. But the whole excitement
of the morning seemed centred
in a group of three horses, which are evidently
preparing for a good strong gallop,
and what particularly attracted attention
to them were the vagaries of a slashing
iron-grey colt, the mounting of which
even seemed no easy matter. As for the
unfortunate boy destined for the top of
that colt's back, he evidently looked forward
to no pleasant ride. This was the
Dancing Master, a magnificent three-year-old,
but afflicted with a most uncontrollable
temper. That the boy was
thrown into the saddle was a matter of
course ; but the Dancing Master apparently
deeply resented the indignity: he
lashed out twice wickedly; but the two or
three people about him understood him
much too well not to have kept well clear
of his heels. His young rider, although a
good deal shaken in his seat, managed to

stick on, and then the Dancing Master
condescended to walk quietly after his
two stable-companions.

Now, Donaldson," said Greyson, addressing
the leading boy, who was
mounted on a rich dark chestnut horse;
"you know what I want: a strongish
pace for the first three-quarters of a mile,
and then brush them up a bit the last two
furlongs. Now then ; off you go."

The horses jumped off, but that wasn't
all ; for the Dancing Master immediately
indulged in two tremendous plunges, and
his boy was jumped off too. The horse
seemed perfectly satisfied with his achievement,
for he remained quietly shaking his
head, and made no attempt to follow his
companions, who promptly stopped at
Greyson's emphatic shout to them to pull
up.

Confound you!" muttered the trainer,
almost shaking his fist at the horse as he
caught him by the bridle. " What an

unnatural brute you are ; when you know
you can run clean away from anything in
the stable, why don't you go and do it,
instead of indulging in these tantrums ? —
Here, Donaldson ; walk your horse down
to where Butters is, on the far side of the
ground, and tell him he must come up
here to give the Dancing Master his
gallop."

Butters really was a fine horseman,
and, but for his weight, might have been
riding races at this time. He was very
soon upon the back of the grey, and, after
two or three plunges, the horse seemed to
recognise there was no possibility of getting
rid of him. Once more was the
order given to go, and Donaldson again
leads the way; this time the Dancing
Master slips off in easy fashion, and
follows his leaders in sober, decorous
manner. Things went very well till they
came to the six-furlong post, where, according
to orders, Donaldson quickened

his pace, and then, to Mr. Greyson's utter
astonishment, the Dancing Master apparently
couldn't hold his own. The trainer
set spurs to his hack and galloped down
as soon as the spin was over to know what
was the meaning of this.

Ci Well, Joe," he exclaimed, as he
arrived at the mile-post, u what was ita

Just this, sir," replied Butters; " the
minute I called upon him to go a bit in
earnest he sulked and shut up."

He wasn't done at all?" inquired the
trainer.

Done!" replied the head lad. " Nota
bit of it — he was pulling my arms off.
He simply refused to go on. There's
some of them have done racing when
they have done pulling. Blessed if this
horse ain't a conundrum. I believe him
to be a real flyer if it wasn't for his
temper. I've backed him for the Two
Thousand, and most devoutly wish I
hadn't."

Well, Joe, I think you may take 'em
all home now. There's no more to be
done this morning."

When Mr. Greyson, after handing his
hack over to one of the stablemen, walked
towards the house, he found hanging
about the gate a dark-eyed looking lad
attired in a grey tweed stable jacket,
moleskin trousers fitting pretty tightly
to the leg, with some half-dozen buttons
at the bottom outside each ancle, a rather
gaudy silk handkerchief twisted round his
neck, and a tweed cap slouched over his
brows.

Well, my lad, what do you want''
inquired the trainer.

"Work," replied Gerald, curtly, as he
touched his cap.

"Of what kind? And what makes
you come to me ? ''

I think I can ride," replied Gerald.

Nobody ever comes to me who
doesn't," rejoined Greyson, " and it's

astonishing how I differ with them at the
end of the week. Mark me, my lad,
there's always room in a racing-stable fora
boy who can ride; but I keep a trial
horse. Do you know what that means?"

Of course; one with which you test
the capabilities of the other horses in your
stable."

While they were speaking, the trainer
led the way through the wicket, and,
strolling leisurely across the grass plat,
they now arrived at the porch. At the
sound of their voices a half open lattice
was pushed still further open, and Dollie's
head peeped out. The speakers could not
see her in consequence of the roof of the
porch, at the entrance of which they
stopped, nor she them, but she could
overhear every word they uttered, and
naturally recognised their voices. It is
almost superfluous to say that Dollie was
perfectly well aware of the morning on
which her lover was to make his application

for employment at the Riddleton
stables. Indeed, she had already exchanged
a few words with Gerald at the
gate while her father was on the Moor.

No ; my trial horse is a test of my
lads' riding. The Dancing Master (you'll
understand his name when you've had a
ride on him) is about the wickedest I ever
had in training. Now, look here, boy : if
you like to ride him a gallop) tomorrow
morning, and he don't put you down or
run away with you, I'll give you a chance.
Be here at six tomorrow morning, and in
the mean time, if you go into the house,
they will give you something to eat and a
mug of ale."

Gerald winced a little at the trainer's
last remark, but there was one who winced
far more than he did, and that one was
Dollie, who had not lost one word of the
conversation. She could not repress a
slight shiver as her lover's degradation
was thus brought home to her, and she

remembered that it was she who had
counselled his taking this step. Many
girls would have felt nervous and frightened
at the idea of the ordeal he was to
go through on the morrow, and Dollie
knew perfectly well what giving that
iron-grey colt a gallop meant, but it must
be borne in mind that Dollie had been
brought up amongst horses and horsemen.
She knew Gerald could ride, and believed
in his riding as only a girl does believe in
her lover's ability to do anything. No ;
she might be a little anxious, but she had
no fear for him on the morrow ; it was the
humiliation of to-day that wounded her so
deeply, that her Gerald — Gerald Rockingham,
of Cranley Chase — should be
consigned to her father's kitchen to get
something to eat and a mug of ale " —
and this was the first time he had crossed
the threshold of her home ! He who
should have come there as an honoured
guest was meeting with the reception of a

mere stable-lad on trial ! And then Dollie
knit her pretty brows in dire perplexity,
and wondered whether she had been right
in advising the step !

As for Gerald, he cared little about it.
He walked off to the kitchen, joked the
maids, and devoured the food and drink
set before him with a hearty appetite.
One accomplishment stood him in good
stead. It is not an uncommon one.
People born in a county, although they
may speak excellent English, can also, if
they choose, speak the patois of their
county. Gerald was one of these, and
could speak the broadest Yorkshire when
it pleased him. He had thoroughly made
up his mind to go through with his new
part. The idea of riding the Dancing
Master did not at all discompose him. He
had ridden some very awkward horses
before now. The only thing was it would
be an awful bore to be kicked off, and
though he flattered himself he could stick

pretty close to anything, still, what had
happened to many others might also

happen to him, and then he supposed

Well ! Old Greyson wouldn't give him an
engagement.

Six o'clock the next morning found
Gerald seated under the tree that fronted
the Grange, patiently waiting the arrival
of the trainer. Already he had seen the
sheeted string of thoroughbreds, and
under the superintendence of Butters take
their way to the Moor. A few minutes
later, and William Greyson emerges from
the house, and walks towards the gate,
where one of the stable-helps is holding
his hack for him.

Ah ! my lad, so you come to be tested,
and see what you can do with about the
wickedest I ever trained ? "

u I'm good to try, sir," replied Gerald,
quietly.

I rather like that, my boy," said the
trainer. " It's a good deal better than

that confounded confidence of half these
young whipper-snappers in my employment;
though I'm bound to say," he continued,
with a grin, " the Dancing Master
has taken the conceit out of most of them.
Now you can just follow me up to the
Moor, and then I'll see what you can do."

Gerald trudged along by the trainer's
side for about a mile, and by that time
they were on the Riddleton training-ground.


Do you suppose Dollie Greyson was in
her bed this March morning when her
lover's riding was to be so severely tested ?
She was up and dressed quite as soon asher
father. Now it so happened that the
upper windows of the Grange commanded
an excellent view of the gallops on the
Moor. It was true it was a mile off, but
that is easily within the range of a good
race-glass. Three pairs of these were
hanging, as she well knew, in her father's
room, and no sooner had he left it than

she rushed across, and, selecting what she
considered the best pair, brought there
back to her own room, opened the window,
and prepared to be a spectator of the proceedings.
She saw her father and Gerald
arrive on the Moor, aid then, after some
little delay, she saw the horse led down
which, as soon as the sheets were removed,
her practised eye recognised as the Dancing
Master.

There was a little group gathered round
him, and it was evident that a consultation
of some sort was taking place.

Now, my lad," said the trainer,
there's the horse, and mind all I've told
you about him is true ; so take care of
yourself. Here, lend him a pair of spurs
and whip, some of you."

Thank you, Mr. Greyson," replied
Gerald; " but you've told me this is an
awkward one, and I'd rather not have any
spurs, though I'll take a whip."

Look here, young feller," said Butlers,

VOL. I. II

in a low tone ; "if you can't ride above a
bit, don't you try ifc. If you don't know
how to fall, don't you try it, for he'll put
you down to a moral. You're a lovely
weight if you know how to do it, and
should come down light, but that colt, oh !
Lord ! he chucks them off as quick as you
shell peas."

Another moment, and Gerald is on the
back of the grey. For a moment or two
after his head is loosed the colt stands
motionless, whilst Gerald pats him on the
neck, and not the least deceived by this
apparent calm grips the saddle firmly
with his knees. Then the Dancing Piaster
commences his usual vagaries. A savage
lash out behind is followed by a couple of
furious plunges, which Gerald sits like a
Centaur, and then the fierce fight between
horse and man commences. A practised
eye like Greyson's speedily detects that
this new candidate for employment can
ride, and what strikes the trainer even

more than that is the temper and patience
he is showing in the struggle. The Dancing
Master has been kicking and plunging
his wickedest now for some minutes, sulking
at intervals only to break out again
with more malevolence. At last Gerald
takes up the whip and uses it in real
earnest. It seems to madden the horse ;
he plunges worse than ever, and in response
to every plunge the whip cracks
relentlessly round his ribs. Having failed
so far to get rid of his rider by the usual
method, he suddenly rears up and throws
himself back, and comes down with
Gerald's legs under him. There is a rush
of the lookers-on to his assistance, as there
is, of course, danger of the horse striking
him in getting up. When they draw
Gerald from under the horse he is insensible.


Here — some of you!" cries the trainer
promptly, " put him in a spare sheet, and
carry him down to the Grange. As for

you, you devil," he continued, shaking
his fist at the grey colt, who stood trembling
a little at the result of his fall,
"I suppose we never shall teach you
manners ! "

As for Dollie, who has viewed the desperate
struggle between horse and man, when
she sees the colt go back she feels sick,
and turns white to her very lips. Then
she sees him dexterously jerked away the
minute the horse, commencing to rise,
takes its weight off his leg ; and then she
sees again that ominous sign which makes
her heart stand still — to wit, that he does
not get up.

"Oh, my God! he's killed," she murmurs
; " and it is I who have killed him."
But Dollie was no helpless young
woman in times of exigency ; bravely
swallowing down an hysterical sob or two,
she dashes down stairs and despatches
some one in pursuit of the nearest doctor ;
then, stifling a strong inclination to order

her own room to be prepared for the
sufferer, she gives orders that a more
modest apartment shall be got ready for
him, and then, with beating heart and
ashen cheeks, runs down to the wicket-gate
to await Gerald's arrival. The first
sign of it is the appearance of her father
at a canter.

"Send somebody off for the doctor at
once, my girl ; and get a room ready on
the ground floor. The new lad has had
an awkward fall."

I have done all that. He is not killed,
father ; is he ? " she added, the tears
welling up in her eyes.

"Killed — no; but it's knocked the
senses out of him. Until the doctor comes
we shall hardly know to what extent he's
hurt ; but what's all this ? — your cheeks
are as white as a sheet, and the tears in
your eyes ! "

Oh! it's nothing, father; but I— I— I

saw the accident; and it's rather upset
me."

A few minutes more and Gerald is
carried through the wicket and laid
quietly down on the grass plot under the
tree. It requires all Dollie's control to
prevent her throwing herself on her knees
by his side and covering his pale cheek
with her kisses. She hardly dares trust
herself to speak; but, motioning to the
house, says in a low voice : —

His room is ready."

As they raise him again Gerald opens
his eyes, and, in answer to an inquiry from
the trainer, replies : —

No. I'm a good deal shook, still I
don't think I'm broke anywhere ; but Mr.
Greyson, you try your boys rather high."

CHAPTER VII.

SAM PEARSON, SOLICITOR.

Mr. Sam Pearson resided in a very-pleasant
house, standing in prettily laid
out grounds some little distance outside
Micklegate Bar, in short, just before you
came to " The Mount." Very handy,
indeed, this to the Knavesmire, and Mr.
Pearson always kept open house during
York races. The big county is notorious
for its astuteness in the matter of horseflesh,
but the solicitor enjoyed the reputation
of being more than a match for any
horse dealer within miles of the North-country
capital, and was as shrewd a

judge of both men and racing as anyone
in those parts. It was considered
half the battle in a horse case to have
Sam Pearson on your side. His practice
was peculiar though extensive, consisting
in a great measure of these last-named
causes and also the extrication of gentlemen
from pecuniary difficulties. Mr.
Pearson was, in short, a racing solicitor,
a man who, had you security, would
find you the money to pay for a high-priced
yearling or to settle at Tattersall's.
People who find money after this fashion
don't do it for nothing, and that Mr.
Pearson should pluck a good many quilled
feathers from his client for his own benefit
was only in accordance with the regular
order of things. Keen and sharp
as he was in practice, the solicitor was,
perhaps, all the more dangerous for a
genial bonhomie that was apt to make his
customers overlook the price they were
paying for accommodation. His easy,

sanguine manner communicated itself to
them, and people who came reluctantly,
but still with the grim knowledge that a
certain sum must be raised at whatever
sacrifice, were wont to walk out of his
office impressed with the idea that borrowing
money at forty per cent., washed
down by a glass of wonderful old brown
sherry, was rather a rollicking piece of
business than otherwise.

Mr. Writson said no more than the
truth when he told Gerald that he fancied
there would be little to be done with Sam
Pearson. Mr. Writson was a steady old
family solicitor, and though his amour
propre forbade him to believe he was nota
match for any man in his own profession,
yet he had an uncomfortable consciousness
that upon this occasion he was
pitted against the sharpest practitioner
in all the West Riding. As for York and
the countryside generally, I think they
have exclaimed :

u What ! old Writson against Sam
Pearson ? Why it's a guinea to a gooseberry
on Sam ! "

Mr. Pearson had his offices in Kendall
Street; a handy situation, no distance
from either the market or Coney Street,
both places to which clients of his were
pretty well bound to resort, and two or
three days after his interview with Gerald
Mr. Writson stepped into the outer office,
and sent in his card by one of the clerks.
That the two solicitors knew one another
was a matter of course ; they had met as
antagonists before the magistrates, and
also in the Assize Courts, many a time.
That Mr. Writson should be received as
soon as possible was a matter of professional
etiquette, and he was speedily
shown into Mr. Pearson's private sanctuary.


Delighted to see you, my dear Writ-son.
Almost unnecessary to ask after
your health, for I never saw you looking

better. Sharp weather, sir. Sharp as a
solicitor in good practice, a little overdone
for the matter of that. Interferes
terribly with the hunting. But what am
I saying ? As if that was a thing concerned
you. Pray sit down, and let me
know if there is anything I can do for
you."

"Well, Mr. Pearson," said the elder
attorney, whose formal and somewhat old-fashioned
manner contrasted very much
with the genial, off-hand carelessness of
the other, " I have called to represent
Mr. Gerald Rockingham, and look after
his interests in the winding-up of his
father's affairs."

"A profitless occupation," laughed Pearson.
" You'll find, I'm afraid, there is
very little picking to be got off those
bones."

You don't seem to follow me quite,"
retorted Writson, a little sharply. " I'm
here to ascertain what it is possible to

save out of the wreck for the widow and
children.' 5

Tut man; don't be so touchy. Salvage
has always been one of the privileges
of our craft. It is rather rough on the
boy, I admit, to suddenly discover that
his father has sucked the orange, and that
he has merely inherited the skin ; but it is
so. Alister Rockingham lived all his life
as if his purse was bottomless ; and, mind,
was not the man to brook either interference
or advice. My instructions were
generally a brief intimation that I must
find so much money at very short notice ;
no need to tell you that that meant bills
bearing pretty stiff interest, and then, of
course, came the old story of renewing;
after which, as we all know, it is a mere
question of time. Poor Rockingham was
so far favoured that his fortune just saw
him out ; had he lived, nothing could have
saved Cranley Chase from the hammer
this year."

u Surely," exclaimed Writson, " you
might have expostulated with him upon
his reckless career ? "

Of course I might," replied Pearson,
cheerfully ; " and enjoyed the gratification
of seeing some other of my brethren
undertake what my very high principles
had rendered me squeamish about. I
have a wife and family," continued Pearson
with mock solemnity. ' l The extensive
borrowing of money throws very pretty
pickings in the way of the legal gentleman
who has the management of it ; and,
in justice to my belongings, it was not
for me to let another pick up gold and
silver, for the pocketing of which I had
been vouchsafed the first opportunity.
No, no, Writson," added Pearson, laughing;
" I'm pretty straight ; but you can't
expect me to take off my hat, and say,
After you, sir,' when it comes to who
is to be first on Tom Tiddler's ground."
Well," rejoined the elder solicitor;

I most assuredly haven't come to talk
over either sentiment or morality, sorry
though I may be to see a good old county
name struck off the roll ; but I presume
I can see all the deeds, mortgages, and
otherwise ; in short, all the records of these
money borrowing transactions ?"

Undoubtedly, undoubtedly," replied
the other. " Now, suppose you come and
take a bit of dinner with me. I'll give
you a rare good bottle of claret, or port
if you prefer it, and then we could run
through all these papers over a cigar
afterwards ; what do you say ? "

I regret, Mr. Pearson, that I don't
smoke ! and that I've been brought up not
to mix business matters with after-dinner
enjoyments. If you will kindly let me
know what day I can go over those papers
with you here, I will call in again ; and
now I'll wish you good morning."

Sam Pearson gave vent to a low whistle
as the door closed on his visitor.

Well, of all the old broomsticks," he
muttered, " that ever I came across ! He's
as stiff, as wooden, and with about as
much in him as is comprised within that
very commonplace implement ."

Another knock at the door cut short
the lawyer's meditations ; and he was
informed by one of his clerks that Mr.
Elliston wanted to see him.

"Show him in," replied Pearson; and
as bis visitor entered he rose to shake
hands with him.

"Sit down," he continued. "Is it
racing or money-lending brings you here?
The former, I hope ; because there's a
want of appreciation of your autograph
that makes the latter occupation somewhat
difficult."

You needn't be afraid ; I've not come
to trouble you about anything of that
sort. I only want to talk to you about
the horses. We have got two good clinking
four-year-olds in the stable in Cater-ham

and Phaeton ; and as the latter beat
the Two Thousand winner in the Leger,
last September, both the handicappers and
the public are bound to conclude Phaeton
the best horse of the two. Now we know
he is just as many pounds behind Cater-ham
as they will think him in front. It
strikes me that our game would be to run
Phaeton out at Ascot, and keep Caterham
for the autumn handicaps."

Yes," said Pearson, musingly, "those
appear to be sound tactics. Phaeton is
quite safe to pick up a race or two at
Ascot, which will, of course, impress that
credulous community known as the British
public more than ever with his superiority
to Caterham. Yes, there seems a
possibility of doing a smartish amount of
business that way ; but we're cruel unlucky
with the young ones ; none of the
two-year-olds seem any good, nor the
threes either, unless it's that iron-grey
co lt »

And he has the temper of Satan," interposed
Elliston, quickly. u Lord Glasgow
was right. When you are cursed
with brutes of that description, the best
thing is to shoot 'em right off."

Yes," rejoined Pearson ; "I don't
suppose we shall do any good with him."

Absurd to think otherwise. And now
listen to what I've principally come to
see you about. They have got a dark
colt, called Pibroch, by the Piper, out of
Maggie Lauder, down at Newmarket,
which I hear has done something very
big. I know there's a big commission
out to back it by the stable for the Two
Thousand; and I think, old man, we
had better swim in the same boat."

All right. I suppose you can place
implicit reliance on your information ?
They are laying a goodish price against
that colt at present, and therefore you
had better attend to it as soon as you
get back to town, or wire, if you're

VOL. I. I

going to linger down here. Now I've a
little bit of news for you. Gerald Rockingham
is going to institute a rigorous
inquiry into his late father's affairs."

"Well," replied Elliston, "I should
think that that matters very little to
you ; it may be inconvenient to me if
sundry unredeemed promissory notes
should come to light— no need to tell
you that I borrowed a good bit of money
from Alister in days gone by."

Yes," rejoined Pearson, with a tinge
of contempt in his tones, "I can easily
imagine that ; and yet you would not let
me give him a hint about Phaeton for the
Leger. If these bills exist they're not in
my keeping, but will very likely be found
amongst the late Squire's papers at the
Chase."

Well, if they come into the hands of
that young cub he can't make any use
of them. I conclude they are all long
overdue ? "

"No," rejoined Pearson, looking at his
turf confederate, through half-closed eyes ;
I should think not ; but if Gerald Rockingham
chooses to publish the fact of
their existence, and to hand them about
now that it is generally known that he
has been left pretty well penniless, I
think it would be unpleasant for you ina
social point of view."

Sam Pearson was pretty unscrupulous,
and a very keen practitioner to boot, but
even he stood aghast sometimes at the
cynical cold-blooded selfishness of Cuthbert
Elliston. From his boyhood Elliston
had never left a desire ungratified that
could be obtained at the expense of his
fellows. What it might cost them was a
matter of little moment to him. Of good
family, he still held a brave front before
the world, though there were items in his
record which if brought to light were
even more than the easy-going society of



our times could condone. Ruthless he
had been from his youth to either man or
woman, sacrificing them all in turn to the
mere gratification of the moment ; but he
was a good-looking man even yet, with
a plausible manner and soft caressing
address, apt to prepossess people in his
favour ; in reality false, heartless, and relentless
as a panther, and well-nigh as
dangerous when brought to bay. Whatever
his shortcomings might be, there
were three things which no one could
accuse Cuthbert Elliston of lacking —
nerve, determination, and bitterness of
tongue ; and yet no one who didn't know
him would have guessed what savage sarcasm
could fall from the lips of a man
rather remarkable for his low training
tones.

There's something in what you say,
Pearson," he remarked, as he lit a cigarette;
"but you don't quite understand

the game, you see. You're a devilish
clever solicitor, and there's no better
judge of racing in England, but you
know about as much of London society
as you do of Central Africa. Used, as
you suggest, by A lister Rockingham,
known all through the London world,
and the story of these bills would have
been, as you say, a very unpleasant fact
to face; but in the hands of a boy like
Gerald, known to nobody, the thing is
very different. Bah ! that for any harm
he could do me," and Cuthbert Elliston
snapped his fingers contemptuously.

Sam Pearson said no more; the subject
did not concern him, nor was it one he
particularly cared to discuss. There were
times when the lawyer distrusted his
confederate. He invariably kept a very
strict eye upon him, and as William Grey-son
was devoted to him Pearson preconceived,
and not unjustly, that Elliston,

whatever he might do with other people,
was at all events bound to deal fairly
with him.

You're quite right, Elliston," he replied,
good-humouredly ; "I don't pretend
to any knowledge of the London
world. I heard from Greyson yesterday
morning, and he says the horses are all
doing well, and coming on nicely. It's
no use our going over to Riddleton yet,
but you must come down and put up with
me a little later on, and we'll go over
there and have a regular talk with Grey-son
about the forthcoming campaign. He
will know still more about the nags then
than he does now. I suppose you go
back to town pretty soon ? "

Off by the afternoon train, and, as I
want to get something to eat before I
start, I shall wish you good-bye. Drop
me a line when you want me. As you
say, visiting a training-ground at this

time of year is d d cold and unprofitable.
Good-bye." And so saying Mr.
Elliston strolled leisurely out of the
room.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE REVEREND ROBERT THORNDYKE.

Two months have elapsed since Alister
Rockingham's death, and his widow and
daughter are established in a small house
just outside the Minster Close. They have
not as yet made any fresh acquaintances,
but the Rockinghams of Cranley Chase
are well known to all the principal Church
dignitaries in York, and none of them
have failed to leave cards on them. Alister
Rockingham had been a very popular
man — " a right good fellow, no one's
enemy but his own," was the universal
verdict, and sincere commiseration for
Mrs. Rockingham and her children was

the general feeling all through the city
and the countryside. What had become
of Gerald no one exactly knew. He had
disappeared immediately after establishing
his mother and sister in their present
modest abode ; and all they knew about
him was that he was in Cambridgeshire,
where he said he had got work to do
which would enable him to get a living,
though it was naturally quite unconnected
with the University. Poor Mrs. Rockingham
troubled herself very little about
what this occupation might be. But with
Ellen it was different, and she felt very
inquisitive as to what it was her brother
was doing; but his father's death had
made a great difference in Gerald ; he
had passed from boyhood to manhood
at one bound ; and to all inquiries from
his sister made short answer, adding that
she might deem his present employment
derogatory to a Rockingham, but that
Rockinghams must live, and that he found

it impossible to do so on the family
dignity. Miss Rockingham was not a
little astonished ; she recognised quite as
quickly as her mother did the change in
Gerald's character. As his eldest sister,
she had been accustomed to patronise and
sometimes snub him ; she understood now
that this phase of sisterly subjugation was
passed. Our relatives are a little slow todo
this, and are wont to overlook the fact
that we are no longer children,

It's a come down, mother, after Cranley
Chase ; still, the little house is clean
and comfortable, and I shouldn't so much
mind if it wasn't for the terrible want jf
earnestness of purpose manifest amongst
all these cathedral dignitaries. They
seem to think choral services and brilliant
sermons are the limit of their calling. I
miss my work at Cranley dreadfully — I
feel myself so utterly useless here."

< ' I am sure you need not fret, dear
Ellen, about that. There are plenty of

parish priests in York who are quite outside
the Minster circle ; in a big city like
this you may depend on it any of these
will find you plenty of such employment
as you wish for without difficulty."

Yes ; I heard yesterday that the
Rector of St. Margaret's was a real hardworking
parish priest. I think, mother,
I should like to make his acquaintance."

Surely there will be time enough,
child, for that later on. We are still
within the shadow of our great loss."

li True, dearest mother," cried the girl,
rising, and caressing her as she spoke,
"but grief becomes no easier to bear to
people of my age and temperament by
sitting still with our hands in our lap.
I want work" continued Ellen, almost
passionately — " something to take me out
of myself. I have been accustomed to a
good deal of it, you know, during the last
two or three years, and this enforced
idleness maddens me. Pray don't think

that I have forgotten our trouble anymore
than yourself; but we do not all
meet our sorrows in similar fashion."

Mrs. Rockingham stared at her daughter
in no little astonishment. Ellen was a
singularly undemonstrative young woman,
sparing of her caresses, and reticent of
any display of emotion ; one of those self-contained
natures that, when they are
really moved, are wont to astonish those
nearest and dearest to them. Whether in
love, anger, or righteous indignation, the
habitual restraints once broken down they
rage like a tornado ; and the intensity of
their emotions, once exhausted, seem to
collapse with a sob and a shiver, after the
manner of such fierce and fitful storms.
Ellen Rockingham, had, so to speak, been
for the last three years beating against
the bars. A quick, clever, intellectual
girl, the dull country society to which she
had been condemned wearied her to death ;
for, since she had come out, the Squire's

reduced means had not admitted of indulgence
in a London season for his wife
and daughter. A few weeks for himself
en (jargon, about Epsom and Ascot times,
had been all he could afford ! while the
ladies were left to vegetate in Cranley
Chase. Now and again she met at some
of the great houses in the neighbourhood
a few brilliant talkers from that great
world which it seemed she was never
destined to enter ; and so at last, to
relieve the intolerable dulness, Ellen
Rockingham chose to consider herself
endowed with a mission — namely, that of
the regeneration of the rustic population
of Cranley. Well, she took it out of herself
a good deal in this way, and that,
with the assistance of long solitary gallops
on the back of her favourite mare, had
constituted her life for the last two or
three years. She got on badly with girls
of her own age; questions of paramount
importance in their minds had no interest

for her. Dress ! No one could ever say
but what Miss Rockingham was well
dressed ; but still it was due to no exertion
on her part. She had a good figure, a
mother with exquisite taste, and a very
clever maid. Under which circumstances
a young lady may be faultless in costume
without paying much attention to it herself.
Indeed, I have heard it whispered
more than once that there are great ladies
whose appearance would be benefited
considerably if they would only leave
such matters to their maid and dressmaker.


To say that the choral service of the
Minster was anything new to Miss
Rockingham would, of course, be absurd;
she had attended service there often, and
had arrived at the conclusion about the
clergy connected with the Cathedral upon
no grounds whatever. They might be,
what she imagined them, drawing good
salaries, addicted to good dinners, and

thinking they were thoroughly discharging
the duties of their station by seeing
that the music part of the services was as
good as possible ; but Miss Rockingham
was not in the least behind the scenes,
and these men might possibly be quite as
much given to u good works " as Miss
Rockingham herself, and perhaps a little
more judicious in the manner of them.
Ellen had fallen unfortunately under the
austere influence of the Low Church
Rector of Cranley, an excellent well-meaning
man in the pulpit, what Baxter
describes as a " pious and painful
preacher " ; but a man who unfortunately
deemed any show of geniality of disposition
not in accordance with his profession.
The Cranley people, I fancy, infinitely
preferred his predecessor, who troubled
himself more about the hounds and
Scott's Derby lot" than the schools;
who didn't preach, but simply read two
short drowsy sermons on Sunday ; yet was

ever open-handed and sympathetic with
his parishioners in their trouble.

Miss Rockingham, thrown by compulsion
a good deal on her own thoughts,
found herself perpetually musing over
what this Rector of St. Margaret's might
be like. He was a man much talked
about in York just then. He had somewhat
scandalised the dons of the Cathedral
by what they were pleased to term
his utter want of dignity and sense of his
position. These rather high churchmen
were a little aghast at his democratic
tendencies. They talked patronisingly to
the poorer members of their flocks: the
Reverend Robert Thorn dyke would shake
hands with his shoemaker, and treat him
perfectly as an equal. At the same time
there could be no doubt that he was a
most energetic, hardworking man in his
parish; in fact, as far as Miss Rockingham
could hear, he was perfectly irrepressible,
always bubbling over with energy, and

throwing himself into whatever he took
up with a vehemence that usually swept
all before it. There was a want of reverence
too for the ecclesiastical authorities
that some of the ladies of York especially
shook their heads over. He had been
known to contradict the Dean, and even
to argue with the Archbishop. A desperate,
contumacious man this, with a
strong will and opinions of his own, and
who, moreover, by no manner of means
could be made to understand that it would
be more proper to subdue these opinions
in the presence of his superiors. There
again was a case of the man's moral
obliquity ! He couldn't be made to understand
that he had any superiors. The
more Miss Rockingham heard of the
Reverend Robert Thorndyke the more
curious she became to see him. She pictured
him to herself as a somewhat ascetic,
Low Church, puritanical clergyman,
ablaze with all the fire and enthusiasm

of a John Knox, one who railed at all
High Church doctrines ; stern in his
denunciation of anything which savoured
of Roman Catholicism as the great Scotch
reformer. And one Sunday afternoon
Miss Rockingham put on her bonnet, and
informed her mother that she was about
to attend service at St. Margaret's. She
arrived there in good time, thereby obtaining
a good seat almost facing the
pulpit. A few minutes, and the Rector
entered the reading-desk, and Miss Rockingham
opened her eyes wide. No one
could say that the Rev. Robert Thorn-dyke
was in the least deficient in dignity
in the pulpit, whatever he might be elsewhere.
But then he was so utterly unlike
what Miss Rockingham had imagined.
Instead of the pale, ascetic divine she had
pictured to herself, the clergyman who
commenced to read the service was a man
of about four or five and thirty years of
age, standing at least six feet one in his

boots, with crisp brown curly hair, bright
blue eyes, which, though now composed,
one could see at a glance had a laugh in
them, and a somewhat florid complexion.
Another moment, and his voice rang
through the building, clear, sonorous, and
musical, and when the prayers were over
Miss Rockingham thought she had never
heard them more impressively read, and
then she composed herself for the five-and-forty
minutes' serious discourse which
she felt sure was to follow. But here Miss
Rockingham was destined to be still
further astonished. In a quarter of an
hour Mr. Thorndyke had said his say, and
had preached a sermon breathing hope
and charity, which presented a rather
startling contrast to that weary catalogue
of pains and penalties to which she had
been accustomed to listen in Cranley
church. The sharp, nervous, incisive
sentences made a great impression on

K2

Miss Rockingham. What this man had
to say he had said in such a clear distinct
fashion that a child might almost have
followed him, whereas the clergyman at
whose feet she had till lately sat was wont
to be not only involved and wandering in
his discourse but to dwell with unctuous
emphasis on all the damnatory clauses of
the Athanasian Creed.

As Miss Rockingham walked home I'm
afraid she was thinking rather more of
the preacher than of the service at which
she had assisted. A clever girl herself,
she recognised that short and apparently
simple sermon was the work of a clever
man, and came to the conclusion that for
the future she would attend church at St.
Margaret's. This was comforting to her,
for to get their doctrine to their minds
is sometimes a great tribulation to young
ladies.

Well, Ellen," said Mrs. Rockingham,

as her daughter entered the drawing-room,
" were you pleased with the service
at St. Margaret's ? "

"Very much, mother; but anything
more unlike what I fancied him than the
Reverend Robert Thorndyke is — it is
impossible to conceive. He wears a
moustache, and looks more like a dragoon
than a clergyman, but he reads the service
beautifully and preached such a
clever sermon."

CHAPTER IX.

SIR MARMADUKE Marginal.

It was about this time that there suddenly
rose above the turf horizon that
bright particular star Sir Armature
Martindale, and with the advent of Sir
Marmaduke came what is generally
known as the era of the " plungers." At
twenty-one the young baronet found himself
in possession of twenty thousand a
year and one hundred thousand pounds
ready money, the accumulations of a
somewhat long minority. During his
Cambridge career Sir Marmaduke had
shown much more taste for the computation
of the odds than the absorbing study
of conic sections. He preferred the lore

of Newmarket to the teaching of the
schools, and no sooner was he his own
master than he promptly repudiated a
University which, truth to tell, had been
more than once on the verge of repudiating
him. Sir Marmaduke had never
affected the slightest intention of taking
a degree, but there are plenty of men
who go up to Oxford and Cambridge
without any design of that nature. The
baronet's irregularities had been pretty
notorious, and that he should have escaped
the pains and penalties of his offending
was due partly to luck and partly to the
leniency of the authorities. The Dons of
his college don't trouble their heads very
much about a man of this sort as far as
his reading is concerned ; providing he is
subordinate to the discipline of the University,
and does not wax over-riotous,
they ask no more of him. Never having
expected him to be a credit to his college,
they are content to rest satisfied as long

as he avoids the other extreme, and does
not become a disgrace to it.

In no man's blood did the fierce itch of
gambling run hotter than Sir Armature's.
He had exhibited this wild passion
for play while at the University, and
had even then contrived to have a few
horses in training at Newmarket; but,
once emancipated from all restraint, Sir
Marmaduke embarked in racing on a
colossal scale. He gathered together a
lengthy string of thoroughbreds, and the
oldest of betters stared aghast at the
magnitude of his speculations. He became
the head of a small clique who played
almost as boldly as himself. Betting in
those days was carried on on a scale of
which the young men of the present day
have no conception, and sums of such
magnitude could be won over the great
races as is now no longer possible.
Amongst other equine celebrities owned
by Sir Marmaduke was this colt Pibroch,

of which Cuthbert Elliston had spoken to
Pearson. The horse had only run once
as a two-year-old, when he had won a
small stake at Newmarket, defeating some
four or five very moderate opponents.
From his performances he had not the
slightest right to be first favourite for the
Two Thousand Guineas, but first favourite
he was, and, what is more, one of the
hottest favourites that had been seen for
many years. That the stable knew a
good deal more about him than the public
it was only fair to conjecture, and when
Sir Marmaduke and his friends really
fancied a horse the sheer weight of money
that they invested upon him invariably
brought him to the top of the poll. Both
backers and bookmakers are exceedingly
like sheep, and invariably follow the lead
of two or three guiding spirits.

Sir Marmaduke was a man who already
in his short career had made some marvellous
coups on the turf ; and that ravening

section of the British public who indulge
in such speculation were now keenly
observant of everything he did, and excessively
anxious to share his fortunes,
consequently the public now were wildly
backing Pibroch for the Guineas, although
of course upon much less favourable terms
than his owner and friends had contrived
to do ; though it wanted yet about a
month of the day fixed for the race, seven
to four was the latest quotation against
Sir Marmaduke's colt.

Mr. Cuthbert Elliston had been early
in the field, and had contrived to appropriate
a considerable proportion of money
at the same price as the stable for himself
and Pearson. Elliston was a man who
had quite a staff of horse-watchers and
people of that kind in his employ, and
undoubtedly often was in early possession
of valuable information concerning stables
other than his own. He payed well for
such, and never inquired by what means

it had been come by, but on one point he
was relentless. If ever the information
supplied by one of his myrmidons turned
out false Cuthbert Elliston left no stone
unturned to punish the offender. More
than one of these jackals of the racecourse
had rued the day when, either from design
or carelessness, they had despatched
false intelligence to Cuthbert Elliston.

Sam Pearson, as he read the weekly
account of the doings at TattersalPs, felt
well satisfied with what his partner had
done about Pibroch. You may know
nothing about racing, but to buy shares
at a low price and find them going up
forty or fifty per cent, is a thing understand
by most people, and that is precisely
what the quotations from Tatter-sail's
represented to Pearson.

Ah, well ! it is all over now, and horse-racing,
according to many people who
study the signs of the times, is in a fairway
to share the fate of pugilism. The

days lang syne when investors used to
enjoy all the fun of watching the fancy
they had backed fluctuate in the turf
share-market all through the winter are
gone. We live in days of cant and mock
civilisation, and are perfectly hysterical in
our shrieks regarding cruelty to animals.
We sacrifice our fellow-creatures without
the slightest compunction in the numberless
petty wars in which we are everlastingly
engaged, and yet shrink from
putting the rope round the murderer's
neck. Civilised, no doubt, — ever advancing
in civilisation ! But what is the outcome
of it all ?

Sir Marmaduke had opened the season
in rare form. The Ring had winced at
the settling over the Craven Meeting, and
were now perfectly paralysed by another
stroke of turf strategy on the part of this
young Napoleon of the racecourse. A
dangerous three-year-old had made his
appearance at this last meeting, and

landed a Biennial Stake over the Rowley
Mile in such handsome fashion as to suggest
to the minds of the lookers-on that
he was likely to imperil the victory of
Pibroch in the Two Thousand, however
good that colt might be. Before the ensuing
week was over it became known
through turf circles that Sir Marmaduke
had bought this new comer for a fabulous
sum, and after that, as the bookmakers
said, who could say what this daring
young gambler might do ? That he had a
wonderful clear, shrewd head, those who
came most in contact with him were fain
to acknowledge ; that he was a very fair
judge of racing was also apparent ; while
even his veteran trainer was often filled
with astonishment at the information he
possessed about antagonistic stables. Sir
Mameluke, indeed, employed a very army
of horse-watchers. He eclipsed Cuthbert
Elliston in this respect, and, though he
might lack that gentleman's experience,

he possessed a very much longer purse.
Informers against horses, like informers
against humanity, are ever at the disposal
of the highest bidders.

It was curious to see the effect of Sir
Marmaduke's appearance in the Ring,
when, with his hat slightly pushed back,
flower in buttonhole, and cigarette in
mouth, he stepped inside the roaring circle,
and opened that betting-book, bound
in the colours they knew so well; the
bookmakers swarmed round him like bees
round a honeycomb, and the quick, short
nods with which, the price once adjusted,
he would pencil down three or four pages
of bets, was a sight to see. Men don't
back horses in such fashion nowadays,
and perhaps it is as well ; but I never can
help a lingering feeling of admiration for
those bold betters of the " plunging era."

I suppose in the old days of the Prince
Regent and Rochford's, when Charles
Fox played hazard from sunset to sunrise,

they perhaps gambled as fiercely ; but I
doubt if men of the present time can ever
recall heavier gambling on the turf than
when Sir Marmaduke Martindale was at
the zenith of his career. There were all
sorts of rumours concerning him. 'Twas
said that he slept with his betting-book
and a Porringer pistol under his pillow ;
that he lived chiefly upon champagne and
cigarettes. The rumours of his winnings
were fabulous ; of his losings people never
spoke; and yet the most reliable axiom
connected with gambling is contained in
the line, " But dice will run the contrary
way."

It was some three weeks before the
First Spring Meeting at Newmarket, and
TattersalFs was in a tremendous blast
that Monday. Hotter and hotter was the
desire to invest upon Pibroch ; but, boldly
as the backers came to the front, still the
fielders never flinched. No sooner was
six to four taken in hundreds than the

strident voice of Bob Broughton — one of
the leading Northern bookmakers — rang
through the room with —

Here's another seven hundred to
four against Pibroch."

Seated on one of the benches outside
the little Subscription Room, with the
eternal cigarette in his mouth, was the
owner of that noble animal. His hat was
tipped over his eyes on this occasion, and
not thrown slightly back on his head, as
was the case when he meant really transacting
business; he seemed half asleep,
and was only roused from his reverie by a
good-looking man, who lounged up to
him and said, —

i I say, Marm ; they're knocking your
horse about like the deuce inside. What's
the matter?— is there anything wrong
with him ?"

There wasn't at nine o'clock this
morning. He did a good gallop, and
pulled up fresh and well ; and I should

have been wired to in cipher had anything
happened."

u All right, old man ; blessed if I don't
have another seven hundred to four about
him at once. Broughton and some more
of them there have got a craze that they
know something."

Well," said Sir Marmaduke, in his
usual languid manner, "I think I wouldn't
be in a hurry, if I were you."

Why ? you tell me the horse is all
right; what the deuce do you mean?"
exclaimed Captain Warrington.

Well, as a rule, I usually mean what
I say. I simply reiterate, the horse is
well ; but, if you take my advice, you
won't be in a hurry to back him."

But hang it all, old fellow ; just explain."


u My dear Farrington, if there's one
thing I pride myself upon, it is the extreme
simplicity of my English. I never
go into verbose explanations. Do as you

VOL. I. L

like ; but don't turn round upon me afterwards
and say I might have told you.
Turf tactics are beautiful in their simplicity
and ingenuity ; but you can't win
if you lay your cards upon the table."

Captain Farrington gave vent to a subdued
whistle. He was a bold and daring
plunger, and had concentrated such brains
as Providence had given him on the study
of the mysteries of the turf. He knew
better than to attempt book making, being
conscious that arithmetic was one of his
weak points ; but in the backing of
horses, like the backing of the colours in
rouge et noir, there is a delightful simplicity
requiring but little intellect to
master. He did not do so very badly
upon the whole. He was a popular man,
and received various hints from the racing
magnates as to judicious investments;
although, as in the present case, it took a
little hammering into his handsome head.

Doosid clever fellow is Many. Suppose

I'd better wait and see what his little
game is."

He hadn't very long to wait. As the
clock in the Subscription Room marked a
quarter to five Martindale lounged in in
his usual nonchalant manner. " Want
to back a horse, Sir Marmaduke ? " was
shouted from more than one throat, bat
above the din thundered Broughton's voice
with : —

u Here's seven fifties to four Pibroch ! "

Have a bet. Sir Marmaduke," said one
of the wiliest speculators in the turf
market. " I've only just begun a book
on the Guineas, and you haven't given
me a turn yet. Let me write you down."

So you shall," rejoined the baronet,
i6 if you really mean betting."

All right, Sir Marmaduke, what shall
it be ? In monkeys or thousands ? "

I'll tell you what you shall do," said
the baronet, drawing his betting-book
from his pocket, " you shall lay me ten

l2

thousand to a thousand against Bushranger,
and if anybody wants to go on "
and here the baronet looked defiantly
at the surrounding crowd of bookmakers
" they can lay it again ! "

It was something like a shell exploding
in that circle. Here was the owner of the
favourite backing his new purchase instead
of standing to his old love. There was a
slight hesitation, and then from various
quarters rang out offers to take the odds
against Bushranger, with the natural consequence
that his stable companion,
Pibroch, began to decline in the betting.
As for Sir Marmaduke, he was inflexible.
He offered to take ten to one not only
again, but twice over, but the Ring had
got a scare, and eight to one was the
highest offer. Muttering something contemptuously
to the effect that he really
had no time to waste with a lot of men
who didn't mean betting in earnest, but
were simply all talk, the baronet snapped

up his book and left the Subscription
Room. As he made his way up the
narrow passage to the outer door he was
overtaken by Farrington.

"By Jove, old fellow !" said that
gentleman, a you've set 'em a riddle inside
that will keep 'em thinking all night.
But I say, Marm, is Bushranger really
the best ? "

My dear Farrington, don't ask indiscreet
questions. Rest satisfied with what I
told you at the beginning of the afternoon
namely, that if you waited you'd get
longer odds about Pibroch."

The Honourable remained wrapped in
reverie for some few minutes after the
baronet left. At last his thoughts took
a tangible form, and he muttered, u Ita
rum go, and which is the real pea I'm
blest if I know."

CHAPTER X.

AN UNDERGRADUATE OF THE SADDLE.

Gerald Rockingham, under the assumed
name of Jim Forrest, had now been installed
for some three weeks at Riddleton
Grange. He stuck closely to his work,
was excessively willing and punctual,
though deviation in this last matter is a
thing rarely known in a racing stable.
He had won Joe Butters' regard, not only
for these former qualities but from his
perfect nerve with the horses. Jim
Forrest, indeed, seemed quite indifferent
as to what he rode, and was now appointed
to look after the Dancing Master. He
got on pretty fairly with that amiable

animal in his box, and could admittedly
do more with the horse on the training-ground
than any one else. I don't at all
mean that he had exercised the devil entirely
out of the brute. The horse still
continued to show his savage temper as
heretofore ; he would suddenly decline to
move at all, then he would buck, kick,
and plunge like a very demon. Then
again he would take hold of his bit, and
for once in a way gallop with a vengeance,
cutting down both Caterham and Phaeton
at seven pound less than weight-forage
in marvellous fashion, making old Bill
Greyson grind his teeth with exasperation
when he thought of the brute's waywardness.


There's all the stakes in the world
at the villain's mercy if we could only
rely upon him. What a thing temper is,
both amongst horses and Christians! "

One thing the astute trainer noticed
was that the Dancing Master had never

succeeded in getting rid of young Forrest.
He had thrown every boy in the stable,
not even excepting the redoubtable Joe
Butters ; but Jim Forrest, thanks to his firm
seat and untiring vigilance, had never been
so disposed of, unless the first morning,
when the horse went back with him, should
be so accounted. Not a pleasant horse to
ride by any manner of means. He would
go along quietly and easily just to lull
you to sleep, and then, without a word of
warning, break out in his tantrums, the
result of which was that many a boy
turned a somersault in the air. Jim
owed his immunity to never relaxing his
vigilance. After that first morning he
had never asked for the favour of a whip,
and Bill Greyson had often admired the
patience with which the lad would bear
with the horse's vagaries. He would
sometimes wear the Dancing Master out
when he was in one of his sullen moods
by sitting immovable as one of the

sentries at the Horse Guards, and quietly
waiting till it pleased him to move, when
at last the horse, I presume from sheer
weariness of spirit, would break into life
again, and either kick or plunge, or start
down the gallop like a steed possessed.

Tell you what, Dollie, that was rather
a good pick up, that last boy — that young
Forrest. He's only been with us three
weeks or so and I'm blest if he isn't the
best of the lot of them. Mark me, if he
don't put on flesh, and become too heavy,
he'll likely come out as a jockey some
of these days'' said Mr. Grey son one
morning.

That Dollie watched her lover's progress
with the keenest interest I need
scarcely say ; but she very rarely succeeded
in exchanging a word with him.
It would have been a terrible solecism for
Miss Greyson to have been seen talking
to one of the stable-boys. Should Jim
Forrest ever become a jockey, then, of

course, it would be perfectly correct, as,
by the immutable law of nature, jockeys
seem invariably to look amongst the
trainers' daughters for a wife. Although
Jim bore his lot with great resolution, it
had more discomfort than usual connected
with it. It need scarcely be said that
association with his companions was extremely
distasteful to him, and that they
should bitterly resent his standing rather
aloof from them was only natural. They
speedily recognised that he was of a class
above themselves, and liked him no better
for that, stigmatising him as a " bloated
swell," and subjecting him occasionally
not only to their coarse jeers, but further
electing him as a fit subject to play practical
jokes upon. However, all this sort of
thing came very speedily to an end. One
of the biggest boys, encouraged by the
placid manner with which Forrest tolerated
this sort of horseplay, thought fit to
indulge his humour rather further one

evening. He caught a Tartar with a
vengeance. Jim's left shot out straight
and deadly as the matador's sword, and
stretched the joker flat upon his back.
"A ring - a ring!" shouted his companions
; and, with little stomach for the
task, the aggressor found himself obliged
to stand up to his victim and fight him in
earnest. Bob Matthews — for such was
the aggressor's name — would have very
gladly compromised matters ; but his
comrades had no idea of being defrauded
of all the gratifications of a fight. Jim
was about a year older than his antagonist,
and, besides a natural attribute for
all athletic pursuits, had enjoyed the advantage
of professional instruction. Three
rounds saw the termination of the whole
affair; and that Bob Matthews should
have come up for the third time after
the severe punishment he had received,
showed that, though destitute of science,
he was at all events not wanting in pluck.

I need scarcely say that, from this out,
no one attempted to interfere with Jim.
The stable-boys had ascertained two very
important points — not only that he would
fight, but also that he could — in fact, the
straightness, quickness, and severity of
his hitting had excited no small admiration
in the little community.

If the life was somewhat hard, it was
at all events healthy. Early hours, lots
of exercise on the bracing moorland, and
plenty of wholesome food ; for though
jockeys are perforce condemned to lead
the lives of anchorites, the boys in any
stable of repute are well taken care of,
and by no means " muzzled." Still it was
galling to one who had been brought upas
heir to Cranley Chase to have to
endure at times sharp rating from a man
who had stood almost in the capacity of
servant to his father ; and, willing as Jim
was, the strapping down of his horse was
new to him. He was not ignorant of

how it ought to be done, but he lacked the
practical knowledge. As Mr. Grey son
said emphatically to him one morning,
You're better in the saddle than the
stable, my lad. Don't be afraid of your
horse ; rub him down as if you were
polishing a dining-table."

He's a little awkward to deal with,
sir," expostulated Jim.

We never want answers unless asked
for in a racing stable," replied Grey son,
sharply. "Your business, my lad, is to
take in what's said to you, and offer no
opinion upon it. If I take it into my
head to train tigers, you'll have do 'em
properly, or go."

Trainers have their annoyances like
other people. Annoyances as a rule are
reflected in the temper like a face in a
glass, and Mr. Greyson at times would
almost shake his fist and curse the
Dancing Master after some out-of-the-way
misconduct on that provoking animal's

part. It was aggravating after such a
slice of luck as carrying off the Two
Thousand and Leger the previous year to
find yourself with a colt in the stable
quite capable of a similar feat if he could
only be induced to do his best. But there
it was. A queerer-tempered animal than
the Dancing Master it had never been Bill
Greyson's lot to take charge of. His legs
seemed of iron. He was never sick nor
sorry, nor any anxiety to his trainer in
that way, but what vagaries that wayward
grey might indulge in on a racecourse no
mortal could foresee. His owner, Cuthbert
Elliston, felt more vindictive concerning
him than even Grey son. His wrath with
an animal that ought to be a veritable
gold mine to him, and obstinately declined
to exert itself, was virulent in the extreme
; and over and over again he
declared that it was cheaper to shoot such
bad-tempered brutes at once. You could
not then be seduced by fallacious performances

on the home gallops into losing
your money over them on a racecourse,
and the Dancing Master, during his two-year-old
career, had proved a terribly
expensive horse from his erratic caprices.

Gradually Jim got excessively fond of
his charge, and the wayward grey seemed
after his own fashion to reciprocate his
attendant's regard. It was undoubted
that he would behave better to Jim than
to any other boy in the stable, but that
was not saying so very much after all. It
was never safe to be at all careless in
dealing with him, and on the training-ground
his behaviour was, as often as not,
quite as unruly as ever. Still, Jim, after
the manner of the class with which he
had identified himself, believed that his
charge was the greatest three-years old
in England.

If you could only make up your mind
to take things in reason, old man," he
would say sometimes, as he caressed the

grey's black muzzle, when that fickle
quadruped was in an amiable mood, "you
could take a double first, you know you
could. I know it's only your lightheadedness,
but you carry it too far, you
do indeed ; and spoiling my waistcoat or
fetching me one on the legs isn't a nice
way of showing your gratitude."

Hazlitt has said " that the apprentice
who does not believe that he will come to
be Lord Mayor is in a fair way to be
hanged." Similarly the stable-lad who
does not think that the colt he looks after
is a very possible Derby winner will dono
good in his vocation. Jim stuck
doggedly to his work, and never made
answer again to any rebuke which Grey-son
addressed to him, rising gradually
higher in that astute worthy's esteem than
he could have imagined.

Another thing that had much perturbed
Jim in the first few weeks of his novitiate
was the fear of being recognised, but this

gradually faded away, as he found how
very few of his own class were ever to be
seen about Riddleton Moor. True, he
knew that some time or other he should
probably have to encounter Cuthbert
Elliston or Pearson, but, as Dollie pointed
out, the difference of dress and their being
so utterly unprepared to see him in such
a position would make their noticing him
improbable. If he would simply wear a
wrap round his throat that he could pull
well up if necessary, a very common
article of attire among his companions,
and take the precaution of pulling his cap
well over his brows when such partial
concealment of his face became necessary,
there was little fear of his being recognised.


Don't be offended, Gerald, dear, but
our patrons don't take much notice of the
stable-lads as a rule," said Miss Grey son,
and you may trust me to let you know
when we may expect visitors."

VOL. I. M

At eighteen, when we have done
nothing, we are wont to think the eyes
of the world are upon us. At eight-and-thirty,
when we have shot our bolt, we
know it is very unlikely to take heed of
us. Jim Forrest meanwhile stuck stubbornly
to the rough and somewhat
monotonous existence he had marked out
for himself. Wicked as the Dancing
Master's temper was, Jim spent hours
meditating over conciliatory measures
concerning him, but the capricious brute,
after exhibiting exemplary manners for
two mornings running, and flattering his
trainer into the belief that they had at
last won his confidence, would on the third
behave like a horse possessed, and even
patient Bill Greyson, though firmly impressed
as ever with what the grey could
do if he chose, was getting more despondent
every day about his ever being
in the humour to try when wanted.

u It's hard, Dollie, confounded hard,"

he would say sometimes in the bitterness
of his heart; " that grey colt trains on
every day ; no cause for uneasiness about
him. He's sound in limb and wind as
any ever I handled, and clears out his
manger as a horse should do. That
Forrest, who looks after him, is a smart
lad, too. The brute's had every chance,
and there the ungrateful devil stands.
He's good enough to sweep the board
this year, and bad enough to break the
Bank of England."

u What does Mr. Elliston say about
him, father ? " asked the girl.

Hates the very name of him. You
see we had a rattling good year all round
last, bar the Dancing Master. He took
the gilt off the gingerbread considerable.
What we dropped over him on the New
Stakes at Ascot made a considerable hole
in the Two Thousand winnings, while
half the Phaeton money was down on him

M 2

for the Middle Park, when he started first
favourite and never even got placed."

I'm sorry, father. It's very provoking.
Will he gallop with what's-his-name
I mean Forrest — on his back ? "

Sometimes. But it's the old story ;
he will and he won't — and there's no
guessing when he will."

Shall you send him to Newmarket to
follow in Caterham's footsteps, father ? "

"Most unlikely he would follow even
if sent," snapped Mr. Greyson ; " but Mr.
Elliston must decide that, and I don't
think he'll trust him again. I should
think one hundred and fifty or so would
buy him, and to any one who wants a
superannuated groom comfortably clawed
up, or a loose box kicked down, he's
cheap at the money.

He's not dangerous to the boy who
look's after him, surely," said Dolly,
quickly.

"No; not exactly. Forrest understands
him, and he's fairly behaved with
him in the stable ; but he'd eat anybody
who hadn't sense and quickness, and he
kicks at times like a mad horse."

"And will win the Two Thousand?"
interposed the girl, laughing.

More likely never to have left Riddleton
the day that race is run," replied her
father. tl However, Mr. Elliston is coming
next week, and that will settle it."

Yes, I suppose he will decide then,"
replied the girl, dreamily. "Good night."

CHAPTER XI.

THE Ellison AT HOME.

If ever a woman had tasted bitter experience
that woman was Mrs. Cuthbert
Elliston. A girl of excellent family, and
with thirty thousand pounds dowry, she
had yielded to the soft, seductive wooing
of Captain Elliston, of " the Brigade,"
with half-a-score better men in point of
position at her feet. Handsome man he
was now, and with those soft, training
tones especially prized by women, as a
rule ; but twenty years ago young Elliston
was voted about the best-looking and
fastest young one in the Guards. His
kith and kin were all of undeniable blood,

and Elliston from the first had enjoyed
the entree to circles somewhat difficult of
attainment. He became the fashion ; the
quick, genial repartie of those days could
scarcely be traced in the cynical sarcasm
of the present. Bright eyes sparkled and
rosy lips smiled as Captain Elliston drew
near, and, if some of his comrades thought
Cuddie" had done rather well for himself,
there were plenty of young ladies
who half envied Mary Merlington, niece
to Lord Mavis, her good fortune.

She was marrying — only, poor soul !
she didn't know it — a selfish gambler,
already over head and ears in debt. A
man at whom the ring already began to
look askance, and whose face was well
known wherever dice rattled or cards
were cut. But he was still popular with
his brother officers, with whom such venial
offences as a taste for play and habits of
extravagance were of small account, and
they all agreed Cuddie was making a very

edifying end of it in marrying Miss Merlington;
more especially when it transpired
that only twenty thousand were
settled on herself, and the remainder left
loose to assist Elliston in the purchase of
his steps.

"Just about put Cuddie square' observed
Tom Rustleton, his most intimate
friend, with a knowing wink; "give
Mavis a real chance of playing the old
comedy uncle, and coming down with the
money for the steps afterwards."

He ain't one of those bogus lords, all
coronet and blue blood, old family, and
chronic impecuniosity, is he?" inquired
Colonel Matchlock.

No, no ; he spun, or struck oil, or
made boots, or invented a patent, or else

his father did. He was nearly d d

and knighted, but they made him a Baron
instead. There's not much difference
nowadays when Sir Richard serves you
with two pounds of figs, or appeals to you

to try his interchangeable watch, or whenas
a Baron, you get your living out of
companies as bogus as your coronet."

They get a little too bogus at times ;
but the law is benevolent to coronets, if
possible, as a rule," rejoined Colonel
Matchlock, a keen, cynical man of the
world, with as much liking for Elliston as
it was possible for him to achieve concerning
any human being.

He was Elliston's Captain (we all know
the extra rank carried by the Guards) and
a man somewhat of his own kidney, but
with far larger means and much cooler
brains than his sub. for either racecourse
or gaming-table. Colonel Matchlock would
play high at whist or ecarte, in both
of which games he was a proficient ; but
he was not much given to hazard, nor
was he given to betting high upon a racecourse,
except under direct stable information;
no more irrepressible or daring

plunger when that was the case than Dick
Matchlock.

So they talked about Cuddie Elliston in
the bow window in Pall Mall some twenty
years ago ; and your brother officers, according
to their different lights, are not
wont to make such a very bad horoscope
of your future, or judge of your character
much amiss. Men and women, too, must
internally judge their fellows from their
own point of view. What represents
almost vice to one person is simply folly
to another. We differ in our creeds, we
differ in our views of life, manners, and
politics. The unmitigated cad in Alight
is excellent company to B., while
theologically I would advise my compeers
who desire comfort especially to be
shadowy."

But marriage made no difference in
Elliston's life. The man was an irreclaimable,
selfish gambler, and had neither

real love for Mary Merlington nor anything
but a tinge of contempt for her
paternal family. He wanted money ; it
was an essential that his present existence
depended on ; and to such as Elliston life
presents but that one view-the racecourse,
the card-table, and the coulisses.
Before the year was out poor Mary Merlington
knew what her life was destined
to be, and had fathomed the utter selfishness
of her husband's character. She was
of that sort that seem born to suffer. Nota
word against her husband ever escaped
her lips. Nobody knew better than she
of what inferior clay her idol was made,
but she was not going to make the world
the confidant of her mistake. On the
contrary, she was never without excuse
for his shortcomings, albeit quite aware
the bright future she had pictured was
never destined to be realised. A bare two
years saw Cuthbert Elliston gazetted out
of his regiment, and every sixpence of

that ten thousand pounds destined for his
promotion, as well as his commission
money, gone. They had been at times
vagrants on the face of the earth, but of
late had struggled on in a small house in
Bury Street, Eaton Square, as the inhabitants
exult in calling it. There is
something in living near the rose, and
Publico is ever loth to acknowledge its
actual identity; and their sole reliable
income was derived from Mrs. Elliston's
settlement, which was out of reach fortunately
of her husband's itching fingers.
There were times, of course, when gleams
of luck shone over the gambler's home,
and, like all true gamblers, Cuthbert
Elliston was lavish of his money when
fortune favoured him, and, taught by
dread experience, his wife always took
advantage of the sunshine to store for
those stormy days she knew would in due
course follow. Many an expensive bracelet
or cashmere, &c, did she buys in those

days that she well knew were destined to
return at half-price to the vendor before
many months were passed. A woman
with fair ability, and who really loves
her husband, will learn pretty well anything
for his sake, and Mrs. Elliston knew
the u Racing Calendar," and what trinkets
and gewgaws were always u returnable,"
as well as in days of yore she knew the
book of the opera, or what prices to ask
at a fancy bazaar. It was, perhaps, fortunate
for Mary Elliston, on the whole,
that she had been blessed with no family.
If children might have consoled her for
those lonely hours which her husband's
infatuation and their consequent fluctuating
income condemned her to, still she
was spared the harassing anxiety about
their future which would otherwise have
been her fate.

Last season had been on the whole a
very good year for Mr. Greyson and his
employers, and though that flying but

evil tempered grey two-years old had made
an unpleasant hole in the winnings, yet
the stake won over the Two Thousand,
and the still larger one landed over
Phaeton's Leger, had left a very comfortable
balance to the good at their
respective bankers. The Ellison might
have been described as in rather full plumage,
and, moreover, Cuthbert fancied he
saw a prospect of a tolerably prosperous
season once more before him. No one
knew better the infirmities of horseflesh
than he did, the frailty of legs, the lamentable
delicacy of the equine bronchial
tubes, their susceptibility to cold, and their
liability to that most provoking of all
ailments, namely, the being a little out of
sorts ; or in turf argot, "a little off'' when
backed for a large stake. We suffer ourselves
in this wise, but obstinately refuse
to recognise that our race-horses should
be equally subject to bad days, and are
apt to talk of mal practices because the

gallant brute we have backed is not in
such trim to fight out a ding-dong struggle
as he was a fortnight ago.

Were not you, my friend, settled by
that cucumber you devoured so greedily
with last night's salmon, and did you not
blow shamefully as you breasted the hillside
next day, and let more than one bird
sail airily away that ought to have bit
the heather, simply because you were out
of form? Race-horses suffer from their
cucumber as well as ourselves, despite the
setting muzzle that it would be well for
some of us we also should be endued
with.

Still, there could be no doubt there
were two rattling good four-year-olds in
training on Middleton Moor, and better
still that the public were mistaken as to
which was the best of them. Should the
handicapper only form as false an estimate
of the respective capabilities of Caterham
and Phaeton as it was quite transparent

the racing world entertained, then the
Two Thousand winner of last year must
have the opportunity afforded him of
winning a big race or two of that description
before the year was out. Great
coups of this kind were things Cuthbert
Elliston revelled in mapping out, but the
worst of it was so far they had rarely
owned anything at Riddleton that justified
the attempt to fly at high game.
Usually they had to content themselves
with small handicaps, over which, except
at a very large outlay, only small sums
could be won.

To carry off the Csesarewitch or Cambridgeshire,
and take sixty or seventy
thousand pounds out of the Ring, was
the dream of Elliston's life — a dream, by
the way, that has begot many a gallant
heart's undoing. Why cannot men recollect
that backing horses is simply equivalent
to playing against the bank at
Monaco? The pull of the tables must

beat you, more especially in these days,
when the bookmakers lay most inadequate
prices. Fifty years ago, and the extinction
of prize-fighting seemed most improbable.
Fifty years hence, and there
are signs abroad to show that Newmarket
will have degenerated into a sort of Croydon,
and the Derby have dropped to the
level of the present Chester Cup. What
will they do in those days of ripened cant
and hypocrisy? To howl your way to
Heaven after the wont of the Salvationists,
or to get there by " water " after the
manner of the Blue Ribbon people, will
be probably exploded. All species of
sport have been condemned as cruel, and
life generally be of the dullest and limpet
description, when the Buddhist religion,
now so much virtually in vogue, will have
been actually proclaimed. The rising
generation worship inanition, and really
have no energy for vice; leading their

VOL. I. N

placid little lives without pronounced
views of any sort.

We match not the dead men who bore us
At a kiss, at a song, at a crime.

Oh, no ! It is a tepid generation, with
neither pluck to sin nor to pray.

I must ask you to write me a cheque
before you go out, Cuthbert," said his
wife, as they sat over a latish breakfast
on a bright March morning, about the
time that Jim Forrest was cementing his
acquaintance with the Dancing Master,
and beginning to accustom himself to that
animal's unpleasant eccentricities.

u Upon my soul, you seem to be always
wanting cheques," retorted her husband,
irritably. " You know that the balance
at the bank has got to carry us very far
into the year."

And you know that the rent, the
butcher, the taxes, and such things must
be paid," she rejoined, wearily. " I don't

see myself why the horses shouldn't do
something for us this spring. Caterham
is by no means badly in for the City and
Suburban — you said so yourself."

"Yes; and didn't I tell you at the
same time that we can't afford to expose
him for such a paltry stake as we should
have to contend with on that race ? The
public have arrived at your conclusion
also, and appropriated all the long prices.
Considering the pains I and others have
taken to educate the public, and demonstrate
to them the rashness of speculating
before the owners have satisfied
themselves, I am really astounded at their
childlike confidence. Caterham will run ;
but not quite so well as his backers anticipate."


"What about that grey colt? The
Two Thousand is a nice stake ; and fora
very little outlay you might stand to
win a tolerably round sum in bets.

"Don't talk of that accursed brute; a

gold mine ! Who could do anything
if he were not possessed with such a
fiendish temper. The cheapest tiling todo
with such brutes is to shoot them at
once. Dispose of them, and you are still
tempted to back them whenever they run.
A bad-tempered horse, like a bad-tempered
woman, is a thing to be out of as
soon as may be."

"I have known bad-tempered women,
though at times a little trying, make their
husbands rare good wives ; and a bad-tempered
horse, that you know to be
good, is always worth backing for a trifle.
I have heard you say over and over again,
that when they are in the mood their
very temper makes them bad to beat."

The marrying a shrew, or the backing
a savage, are two dangerous experiments
at which the world only laughs
when they recoil on your own head,"
observed Elliston, sententiously. "I, at
all events, have been spared the former,

Mary; and enjoyed the luck of a better
wife than most men."

A faint flush suffused Mrs. Elliston's
faded cheeks at her husband's somewhat
niggard praise.

Write me the cheque, Cuthbert," she
said, as she rose and, crossing the room,
laid her hand fondly on her husband's
shoulder. " Also, follow my advice: let
the Dancing Master take his chance, and
mind my usual ten pounds is on him''

u I will write you a cheque, Mary ; and
mind, you must make it go as far as you
can. As for the Dancing Master, if anybody
likes to pay his expenses at Newmarket,
he can run ; but I shan't. I don't
think there'll be much opportunity of investing
your tenner."

It is as you will, Cuthbert, of course ;
but don't forget me if he runs."

sl All right, I'll recollect ; for the present,
good-bye. If you're not going out
I shall be home to dinner."

u You know Pm never out when you
say that," she replied, softly.

Pooh ! *' he rejoined as he opened the
door. " We're too old for sentiment now ;
and jog along just as well as our neighbours
without it."

Mrs. Elliston sighed. As if a woman
ever grows too old for sentiment ; and
this man, remember, was her first and
only love.

CHAPTER XII.

A CLERICAL Tea-party.

Miss Rockingham, curiously enough,
began to think a good deal about this
Mr. Thorndyke. He was of a type she
had never encountered before, if, indeed,
she could be said to have as yet encountered
him. She did not as yet know
whether to be interested in him, or
shocked at his most unorthodox views.
The way he mixed up things sacred and
secular seemed almost profane in her
eyes. A parson whom she knew had
actually been known to play cricket with
his parishioners after church, and though
it was rarely he gave such practical testimony

as to his religious views, yet stoutly
maintained there was no more harm in
cricket than in country walks ; that all
honest courting, to which young people
are very wont to devote a portion of their
Sabbath, could be carried on quite as well
while looking on at such healthy, manly
games as cricket and football as in tete-tete
country walks ; in short, that Sunday
was meant for innocent relaxation from
toil and enjoyment as well as returning
thanks to the Creator, and that people
who held up their hands with horror at
what they denounced as his impiety went
to church in the morning to study their
neighbours' bonnets, and devoted their
afternoons to lying and scandalous conversation.
Such a clergyman as this was
a phenomenon that made Ellen Rockingham
open her eyes with amazement.

Had she heard of or first seen Mr.
Thorndyke at Cranley her mind would
have been made up. She would have

pronounced him a priest of Baal, and
shunned him accordingly, but clerical
society was more tolerant in York, and,
though very far from endorsing the extremely
broad views and muscular christianity
of the Reverend John Thorn-dyke,
yet they recognised him as an energetic,
hardworking man, who did a great
deal of good in his way, and was much
liked and respected amongst his parishioners.
It was true his way was not
their way ; they could no more have
hurled (no other word expresses it) those
short, stirring addresses at the heads of
their people than Thorndyke could have
preached one of their (if polished) somewhat
monotonous discourses. Men who
went to hear John Thorndyke felt no
inclination to doze during the ten or
fifteen minutes the nervous, fiery words
fell from his lips ; words, not of denunciation,
as a rule, but of hope and promise,
albeit he would rate the shortcomings of

his sheep with bitter scorn and irony
when occasion required, and those sombre-fleeced
delinquents winced as they took
the scathing rebuke to themselves, and
felt that they had earned it.

Still his clerical brethren were compelled
to admit one thing; his sermons
might be unscholarly, undignified, vulgar
rant, &c, and they were called all these,
but there was nothing unorthodox in
them, and his church was crammed. He
preached extemporary, and though usually,
not invariably, from a text of
Scripture. He seldom brought a Bible
into the pulpit, but never omitted to place
his watch on the cushion.

Ah ! in these days of infinite verbiage,
if those who manage our political and
religious affairs could only know the virtue
of a watch — could St. Stephen's and
the pulpit be induced to pour forth that
flux of vapid garrulity with an eye on the
hour-glass, methinks even they would feel

some shame that their platitudes should
have so long vexed the ears of the nation.

I am going out to tea, mother, if you
don't want me," said Ellen, one afternoon
as the sun floated in at the somewhat
dingy sitting-room window. " Mrs. Primington
has asked me, and says she has
some people coming whom she is sure
I should like to meet."

Pray do, child; it is good for you.
It is not well at your years to be cooped
up in such narrow quarters as this. Dear
Gerald, he did his best for us, and I don't
complain. But," she continued, with a
faint smile, " it comes hard, dear, after
having ruled it so long at Cranley
Chase."

Poor Ellen looked round the room sorrowfully
; she had done the best she could
to make it tasteful. It showed all the
delicate touches of a woman's hand in its
arrangements, in the vases of bright
spring flowers, put artistically together,

as only the deft fingers of the refined
woman or the professional florist are
capable of. Still, modest lodgings and
narrow means can in no manner be
brought to replace your own chateau, with
its conservatories, conjoined with lavish
expenditure, by any feminine artifice.

Mrs. Rockingham bore up bravely
against her altered fortunes ; but it was
scarcely to be supposed she would not
make querulous moans at times over the
hardness of her lot. Besides, he for whom
she had suffered so long and battled so
bravely to keep things together had gone
to his rest; and there were times when
the widow craved earnestly for the time
when she might be laid by his side.
With Ellen it was different. She was
young, and made of sterner stuff. The
Puritan spirit she so cherished nerved her
for her struggle with the world. i ' Whom
the Lord loveth he chastened" was a
text ever on her lips, and she had wound

herself up to the belief that she was
destined to make expiation for her father's
sin. It is wives and daughters who, for
the most part, do penance when their
male belongings have to face the upshot
of backing hopes against figures, in trying
to break the ring or the bank at Monte
Carlo.

"It is very odd we don't hear from
Gerald," remarked Mrs. Rockingham.

We must be patient, mother," replied
Ellen, settling her bonnet at the glass
above the mantelpiece. " Remember, he
was never a good correspondent, and now,
poor boy, he has to set to work to earn
his living. It would come hard upon
most boys ; but it comes doubly hard
upon such as he. Facing the world in
grim earnest, I fear Gerald is going
through an ordeal such as he don't much
care to talk about. And yet, mother, he
was a Rockingham every inch, and faced
disaster as boldly as any one of our race

when it came. I have railed at him often
for his indolence and his absorption in
sporting pursuits ; but I felt proud of him
that day he knew he was a beggar and
his inheritance a myth.' ,

The girl's face flushed, and her dark
eyes sparkled as she recalled that scene in
the library, in which her brother had
jumped at a bound from boy to manhood
the self-possessed courteous irony with
which he had dismissed Cuthbert Elliston.
She had thought of him as a mere boy upto
that, as a girl of twenty naturally does
regard a brother of eighteen ; but henceforth
she acknowledged him as the head
of the family, and felt that Gerald's will
and Gerald's word would be law. It was
wrong and unchristianlike to hate anyone
she knew; but Ellen was painfully
aware that her feelings with regard to
Cuthbert Elliston would scarcely stand
analysis from that point.

When she arrived at Mrs. Primington's

she found some three or four ladies, who,
like her hostess, were rather Calvinistic in
their religious views, also Mr. Brushed,
the Rector of St. Olave's, and his curate,
both gentlemen of as Evangelical a turn
of mind as was compatible with clergymen
who officiated within the shadow of
the mighty Minster. The eccentricities
of the Rev. John Thorndyke were a favourite
topic with these good folks,
generally ending in the opinion that no
good could come permanently from such
vulgarising of his sacred functions.

It is, so to speak, my dear Mrs. Primington,
like the doings of a mountebank
at a fair. Mr. Thorndyke attracts people
to his church because they hope to be
amused ; they are amused, but you don't
mean to tell me such addresses as his —
sermons they can't be called — arouse any
real religious feeling. Sermons should be
thoughtfully written out, then as thoughtfully
read. Mr. Thorndyke apparently

regards them as after-dinner speeches,
improved by a little jocularity."

c * I don't think that is quite a fair 
of Mr. Thorndyke's sermons. I have
only, it is true, heard him once. He is
not conventional, but there is certainly
no levity in his discourse," observed Miss
Rockingham.

"Dear me," interrupted Mrs. Priming-ton,
" I hope I haven't done wrong, but
Canon Durnsford, the new canon, you
know, expressed such curiosity about Mr.
Thorndyke that I promised to ask him
here to meet him to-day. You surely
none of you object ? "

My dear madam," replied Mr. Brushley,
unctuously, "it is our lot to meet
many people in this world of whom we
by no means approve, but it is our duty
to stifle our feelings. We can never tell
what power to do good may be vouchsafed
us. The new canon, Mr. Durnsford,

you said ? Yes, decidedly I shall be glad
to make Durnsford's acquaintance."

If he did not quite hold with their
opinions, Mr. Brushley highly appreciated
the Cathedral dons in a social point of
view, and secretly and sadly admitted
that wines and the art of cookery were
better understood by them than by those
of his own way of thinking.

The canon and Thorndyke arrived
almost simultaneously, and afforded a
somewhat marked contrast. The Honourable
and Reverend Alfred Durnsford was
very different from the plump, rubicund
priest that Mr. Brushley had pictured
him. The tall, slight, aristocratic-looking
new canon, with the suave, polished
manner of a thorough man of the world,
was by no means what the Rector of St.
Olave's had imagined him ; and the Rev.
Mr. Brushley felt intuitively it was just
possible that he and the courteous canon
might not altogether amalgamate. He

VOL. I. O

fancied he detected a slight touch of sarcasm
in the soft-toned voice of the new
dignitary, and sarcasm was a thing that
Mr. Brushley both imperfectly understood
and felt no little afraid of. Better, he
thought, the bold outspoken utterances of
John Thorndyke than this quiet, smooth,
veiled speech, the real meaning of which
he very imperfectly conjectured. It was
odd, Mr. Brushley could not account for
it, and yet before five minutes had
elapsed he was conscious of being ill at
ease with Mr. Durnsford. He felt that
the newcomer saw through him, that he
penetrated the hypocrisy of his character,
and knew him for the sham he really was,
while to his intense disgust he saw the
canon was unmistakeably attracted to
blunt outspoken John Thorndyke. There
was no mistaking John Thorndyke for
anything but a gentleman. Ellen Rockingham,
much as she mistrusted him as a
clergyman, had no misgivings on that

point; as regarded the Rev. Mr. Brushley,
she preferred that question should remain
in abeyance.

"lam told, Mr. Thorndyke, that you
are great at cricket, and have rather a
taste for field sports," observed the canon,
quietly, as he sipped his tea ; "if so, you
are fortunate in finding your life cast in,
perhaps, the most sporting county in
England."

u Great at cricket, ah'' rejoined Thorn-dyke,
laughing ; u I am afraid that's a
thing of the past. I was in the Oxford
Eleven ; but I haven't the time to practise
now, and only get a game now and again
with my parishioners. If they only give
me time to get my eye in, I can make it
lively cricket yet. As for sport, I enjoy
a gallop with the York and Ainsty, or a
day's gunning, on the rare occasions it's
my luck to get one, as much as ever ; and
Mr. Durnsford," he continued, with a
twinkle in his eye, " if I was only sure



His Grace of York wouldn't hear of it, I
think I could shout with the best of them
on the Town Moor at seeing i t' Leger '
won."

You surely would never bring such a
scandal on the cloth as to be present at a
race-meeting," exclaimed Mr. Brushley.

It's not exactly the scandal, it's the
wigging from the archbishop I am afraid
of," replied Thorndyke, demurely.

Which, I'll venture to say, you'll
never get," observed the canon, smiling ;
you were born a quarter of a century
too late."

And yet there are people who tell me
I am too advanced in my views."

l The sporting parson is quite incompatible
with the present state of religious
thought," said Mr. Brushley, pompously.

u And what should you define to be the
present state of religious thought?" asked
the canon, softly, pouncing upon his
victim in true purring feline fashion.

Miss Rockingham awaited with much
interest her pastor's reply to this question.

The phase of religious thought now
dominating these isles might be explained
er — you understand, as a sort of craving
in short, an earnest desire for — for

Quite so," murmured the canon.

Desire — thirst, I might say, for "

€i A little reality," interrupted Thorn-dyke.


ei For — for a higher enlightenment,"
said Mr. Brushes triumphantly.

a Which, when interpreted, means?"
inquired the canon.

u An elevation of the spirit," quoth
Mr. Brushley.

"An elimination of humbug," said
John Thorndyke, drily but audibly.

I refuse to recognise such a word, sir,
in connection with religion," rejoined Mr.
Brushley, loftily.

In connection with true religion, certainly,

but there is a good deal of spurious
coin in circulation."

u And your definition, Mr. Thorndyke?"
Has not yet taken shape, but you
may lay it down as an axiom that it
is cant that makes religion distasteful.
Good-bye, Mrs. Primington ; good-bye
Miss Rockingham. Glad to have made
your acquaintance, Mr. Durnsford." With
which somewhat abrupt adieux Thorn-dyke
took his departure.

Mr. Brushley walked away with a
vague consciousness of not having been
altogether a success in the canon's eyes,
while Miss Rockingham, as she strolled
homewards, was fain to admit to herself
that her favourite pastor had not been so
lucid as was desirable on the occasion.

CHAPTER XIII.

cC HE GAVE YOU THAT RING."

It suddenly occurred to Miss Rockingham
that she was in need of some minor
feminine trappings, and she accordingly
wended her way to Coney Street in quest
of them. Grey son's was undoubtedly the
principal establishment that dealt in all
such articles, and thither Miss Rockingham
repaired. There were a good many people
in the shop, and the attendants had their
hands pretty full. Miss Rockingham took
a chair, and quietly waited till some one
was at leisure to attend to her. She had
not to wait long, for a trim, auburn-haired
damsel glided behind the counter, and

demurely inquired "What she should
show the lady ! " Miss Rockingham gave
her orders, and then glanced at the girl
who was serving her. She was somewhat
struck with her appearance, and more still
with her manner. The girl gave the idea
of being considerably above her station,
and Ellen wondered she had not noticed
her before.

Have you been here long ? " inquired
Miss Rockingham, as she turned over a
box of gloves. " I don't think you ever
served me before."

I am not often in the shop," replied
Dollie, with the slightest possible elevation
of the head ; " I don't belong to it. Though ,
when I am staying with my uncle, and
they are busy, as they are to-day, I often
run in and help. Are those gloves at all
the shade you require ? "

"Ah! You're a niece of Mr. Greyson's.
Why you must be Dollie Greyson, the
daughter of the trainer. I have heard

people talk of your riding," said Miss
Rockingham, with a slight touch of
hauteur in her tones.

She might well say that, for she had
heard her brother be considerably more
enthusiastic on the subject of Dollie's
riding than she conceived was at all
necessary. She had said nothing about it,
but had mentally pronounced Dollie a
forward minx, and wondered whether
Gerald was likely to make a fool of himself
about the girl, and Miss Rockingham
was fain to admit that Dollie was pretty
enough to turn the head of an older man
than her brother. She knew, moreover,
that riding-men were always fascinated
by a good horsewoman, and, as these
thoughts shot through her mind, Miss
Rockingham's eye fell upon the ring which
sparkled on the third finger of Dollie's
little hand.

"A souvenir of Phaeton's Leger, I
presume," remarked Ellen, a little sharply.

I hear, Miss Grey son, that your father
won a great deal of money over it."

The blood rushed to the girl's face as
Ellen lightly touched the tell-tale ring,
and Miss Rockingham, as she marked it,
remembered in an instant that Gerald had
won some money over the race, and came
to a rapid conclusion as to whose gift the
souvenir was.

It was but a second or two before Dollie
drew herself up and replied defiantly,
You are right, Miss Rockingham ; it was
given me in memory of Phaeton's Leger."

You know my name ! " exclaimed
Ellen. " I suppose we are pretty well
known by sight, at all events in and
around York. Rumour may have told
you that we also have our souvenir of
Phaeton's Leger."

I am sorry, very sorry," said Dollie,
in a low tone. " I heard that the race
was disastrous to you and yours''

"We want no pity," replied Ellen,

haughtily. "We are not wont to make
moan when the world goes against us. FU
take these, Miss Greyson, if you will be
good enough to twist them up in paper
for me."

Dollie said nothing as she deftly packed
up Miss Rockingham's trifling purchases,
but as she handed them across the counter
could not resist murmuring in low tones,
Have you heard of your brother lately,
Miss Rockingham ? "

What ! You know him ! It was he
who gave you that ring ! '' exclaimed
Ellen, quickly.

Yes, I do know him, and he did give
me this ring," returned Dollie, and raising
her long-lashed grey eyes boldly to
her interlocutor's face.

I should advise you not to accept such
courtesies from one in such a different
position from your own, however young
he may be. You must be aware it can
mean nothing. You will find yourself

talked about in a way most irritating to
your self-esteem if you are not careful."

Dollie could stand this assumption of
immense superiority no longer. " Your
brother has been very kind to me," she
said, "but I don't think he sets quite so
high a value as you do upon his present
position."

a You have seen him and know what he
is doing?" interrupted Ellen, eagerly.

I saw him a few days back, and know
what he is doing," returned Dollie,
sententiously ; " but farther than that he
is well I am at liberty to tell you
nothing.' '

Miss Rockingham bent her head
haughtily, and swept out of the shop.
Anxious as she was to know what her
brother was doing she would not stoop to
beg information on that point from the
trainer's daughter. She felt indignant that
this girl should be the confidant of her
brother's plans while his mother and sister

did not even know where he was. What
could Gerald be thinking of, taking a chit
of a girl of this class as his adviser ? If
she could but see him to expostulate
with him on his folly ! And then it flashed
across Miss Rockingham that their father's
death and the ruin that had followed had
changed Gerald from a boy to a man,
that he had taken counsel from no one
since, but had persistently thought and
acted for himself. There was not much
after all in his having given this girl a
ring, considering he had won a good bit
of money, that is for him, over a horse
trained by her father, but it was strange
she should know all about his movements,
and have seen him so lately. Had she
met him by accident, or was it design?
And what could he be doing ? He had
recognised the fact that he had got his
living to earn — he had told them so
when he left them — and in what manner
had he set about it? No one could be

more conscious of the difficulty that one
brought up as he had been would have in
doing so. And Miss Rockingham's eyes
were quite as open to that difficulty as his
own. In vain she puzzled, on her homeward
walk, as to what he might be doing,
and now half regretted that she had not
swallowed her pride and tried to learn
more from Dollie Grey son. Had she
better tell her mother what she had
heard ? But then there was so very little
to tell. Further than that, she had been
told by a person who had seen him lately
that he was well. No. Upon the whole
Ellen Rockingham decided to keep this
meagre bit , of news to herself. Her
mother fretted quite enough about not
hearing from Gerald as it was, and it was
better not to revive the subject.

And what in the mean time were
Dollie's reflections on her meeting with
Miss Rockingham ? She had taken the
opportunity of introducing herself to that

young lady, and had been most decidedly
anxious to produce a favourable impression,
and to establish in some sort an
acquaintance with her; but she had not
been prepared for the detection of herring,
and the very rapid conclusion that
Miss Eockingham had come to concerning
it. She was indignant at the haughty
manner in which Ellen ignored the possibility
of there being anything serious
in the attentions of a young man in
Gerald's position to a girl in her's. Position,
forsooth ! And Gerald at that present
moment a servant in her father's
stables ! What would Miss Rockingham,
who now looked upon her with such disdain,
have thought, could she have known
that fact ? And Dollie, smarting under
that young lady's hauteur, ground her
little white teeth, and half wished she
had thrown back the taunt in her face.
She was glad though, immediately after,
that for Gerald's sake she had refrained.

u She didn't quite like seeing his ring on
my finger," she murmured, with a little
grimace of exultation; " and she liked
still less my knowing where he was and
what he was doing. And still less she
liked," added Dolly, with a little triumphant
toss of her head, " my refusal to
tell her anything about it; warning me,
indeed! not to accept courtesies from
him. I wonder what she would have said
if she had known that I am engaged to
him. Get myself talked about ! When
I am talked about in connection with
Gerald I think Miss Rockingham's eyes
will open a good deal wider than they
did this morning."

Dollie had come down from Riddleton
Moor to procure some books and music and
other things not obtainable nearer than
York; indeed, the Reasons paid periodical
visits to that city to purchase all
those articles which the home farm failed
to produce, and upon such occasions put

up invariably at John Greyson's in Coney
Street. Dollie had, of course, known
Miss Rockingham perfectly by sight for
some time, but as that young lady, though
a very fair horsewoman, set her face
against hunting as unfeminine, Miss Grey-son
had never before attracted Ellen's
attention. However, had Miss Rockingham's
manner been ever so conciliatory,
Dollie would have told her no more about
Gerald than she had done. She it was
who had counselled his present line of life ;
and though she saw no way in which he
was more likely to make money, and though
her father's praises of "Jim Forrest"
showed her judgment to have been sound
on this point, still, she rather felt the
position in which her lover was now
placed ; between the stable-boy, quite at
the bottom of his profession, and the crack
jockey, there is a wide gulf — a gulf, too,
as she well knew, not always to be bridged
it being often a considerable time be-vol.

I. P

fore a lad is afforded an opportunity of
riding in public, and even then is apt to
be put upon a horse which gives him little
chance of distinguishing himself. It
might be long enough before Gerald got
his opening.

Dollie heard, too, plenty of talk about
the downfall of the Rockinghams. The
late Squire had been a popular man, asa
gallant, open-handed sportsman is sure
to be in the many-acred county ; and she
heard much regret expressed that Cranley
Chase had passed away from the old
family. The presence of Mrs. Rockingham
and her daughter in the city kept
these rumours alive ; while the fact that
the victory of the outsider Phaeton on
Doncaster Moor had been the coup de
grace to the dashing lord of Cranley
Chase made a turf romance that had
special interest for the sporting population
of York and its neighbourhood
Dollie was destined to overhear mara

bitter comment on her father's conduct.
Dal it all, the Squire had been a good
friend to un always. It was downright
mean of old Bill Greyson not to give
t' Squire a hint to save himsel over the
second string." Whispers were afloat,
too, that Pearson and Cuthbert Elliston,
leading patrons of Greyson's stable, had
been amongst the biggest winners over
the race, and that neither of these should
have given the dead man a hint seemed
monstrous in the eyes of Yorkshire. Both
were well known in the county, and both
were far from popular. Even his intimates
were wont to say there was no
trusting Cuddie Elliston, while, as for
Sam Pearson, it was a current saying
that " No one had ever bested him."
Still, Yorkshire has a certain respect for
this faculty ; and though Pearson was
regarded as a man who carried it rather
far, and would have skinned his own

P2

brother upon occasion, yet public opinion
did not get much farther regarding him
than that " Lawyer Pearson knew his
way about; and you'd to get up main
early in the morning to get a point the
best of linn."

It was right and natural that a lawyer
should overreach you if he could; and
that a Yorkshireman should want the best
of a bargain in horseflesh, or some undue
advantage in a wager, was all in the
ordering of things. Pearson was not
only tolerably free-handed but affected a
geniality of manner which, if not quite
current coin, was at all events near
enough to pass as such. With Elliston
the case was different : he was a sharp,
tricky practitioner, not even to be trusted
by his friends, endowed with a bitter,
jibing tongue, that had rarely good to
say of any one. Like most gamblers,
he was lavish of his money when fortune
smiled; but then he spent it chiefly on

himself. In short, there was usually
little satisfaction manifested amongst
racing-men at the success of Greyson's
stable, of which Cuddie Elliston was the
guiding star ; he and his partner Pearson
were wont to keep their 6t good things "
strictly to themselves ; and, above all,
did they object to the public participating
in their coups.

Such remarks as these about her father
and his principal employers made Doles
ears tingle. Mr. Greyson would have
been an honest trainer had his patrons
been of that way of thinking ; but with
them it was simply a case of which way
most money was to be made over a race,
and Bill Greyson consequently was continually
expending all his skill in preparing
horses for contests which their
owners had no intention of allowing them
to win.

The odium of such proceedings naturally

attached itself to the Biddleton
trainer, and Dollie's father bore an unmistakeably
shy reputation in consequence.


CHAPTER XIV.

TURF TACTICS.

Dollie had returned from York not a
little put out with all the gossip she had
chanced to hear about her father. She,
of course, knew all about the horses in
his charge. She followed their fortunes
in the papers, and knew that they did not
always win when expected to do so, but
she was shocked at the idea that her
father should be deemed capable of not
doing his very best with them. She was
much distressed that the poor Squire
should not have been told about Phaeton
last year. She had heard her father say
that he thought he should " take the
Leger," but she, like the public in general,

supposed he meant with Caterham.
She knew that the Squire had died a
ruined man, but she had not understood
before that the clever finessing of her
father and his employers had dealt him
the finishing blow. She remembered
Alister Rockingham when she was quite
a little girl, a tall handsome man, with
always a pleasant word for her and her
mother. He had a few horses at Riddleton
in those days, the management of
which, though Dollie did not know it,
was principally left to Cuthbert Elliston,
and it was their questionable running
which had led to his leaving Greyson's
stable. Then, as now, the trainer bore
the blame, which accrued simply from
carrying out Elliston's instructions. Later
the Squire had an inkling of the truth,
and though he never again sent any horses
to Riddleton, was always on friendly
terms with Greyson, and more than once
indebted to him for a hint at the eleventh

hour. It was this had made him so incredulous
about Phaeton. So far he was
right : Caterham was the best horse of the
two, but the other was just good enough
to win. Still the Squire made sure that
if. such a bit of turf tactics was about to
be attempted he should have had a hint
from Greyson, and in default of that
stood stanch by Caterham, with the disastrous
result we have seen.

A day or two after her return her
father observed : " Mind you have a tidy
breakfast for us tomorrow, lass. Mr.
Elliston and Pearson are coming to have
a look at the horses in the morning, and
I suppose they'll let me know then what
they really want. The nags are very
well, and will pick up a good race or two
this spring, if they're wanted."

"I should have thought, father, men
who kept racehorses were always anxious
to take all the prizes within their reach,
if only for the swagger of the thing."

Bill Grey son stared for a moment at
his daughter in sheer astonishment that a
child of his could still be so innocent with
regard to the intricacies of the turf and
the ways of its votaries.

ei Yes, Dollie, I suppose they do like all
the flourish and swagger of pulling off a
big race when they are young, but they
very soon cease to care about bringing
down a royal stag unless there's a lot of
meat on the carcase. Do you understand
me ? "

6i I think so. You mean men like Mr.
Elliston and Mr. Pearson don't care to
win races unless they can win a lot of
money over it."

Just so, child. Men like Mr. Elliston
and Pearson, like the man you were reading
to us about the other night, s fight for
their own hand,' and don't care much
about the public," replied the trainer,
sententiously.

But, father, surely this is very unsatisfactory

for you ? " said the girl,
raising her large grey eyes to his face.

I've got to get my living, girl,"
replied Grey son, doggedly; " and trainers
and jockeys, like other servants, have todo
as they are told. Our soldiers and
sailors get hampered in that respect, too,
I'm told," and so saying the trainer walked
away.

Dollie pondered a good deal over her
father's last remark. He was not altogether
a free agent then, but in the hands
of his employers, and Dollie had what
the people in York said concerning them
still ringing in her ears. William Grey-son
was indeed more in their power than
his daughter could guess. Like many of
his class he had passed through times of
impecuniosity, and Mr. Pearson, far too
shrewd a man not to buy any one it
was worth his while to have under his
thumb, had been only too happy to accommodate
the trainer with a loan. Loans

from Lawyer Pearson were of that kind
that one never settled. Interest ran on.
You were begged not to trouble yourself
about it, and the millstone was round
your neck in an incredibly short time.

And now occurred to Dollie another
very awkward circumstance in connection
with the visits of Messrs. Elliston and
Pearson to Riddleton Moor. Both these
gentlemen knew Gerald Rockingham, and
the probability was that they would recognise
him under the guise of Jim
Forrest, the stable-lad. Why had she
never thought of this most likely occurrence
when advising Gerald to seek
service with her father ? Surely it was
the very last training-stable in England
in which to attempt the bold stroke to
fortune he aimed at. But the girl could
not resist the temptation of seeing her
lover constantly, and that had blinded
her to the palpable danger that was now
on the verge of occurring. Dollie knew

both Cuthbert Elliston and Sam Pearson,
although she had seen little of them
during the last three years, in which she
had principally resided at York with her
uncle for educational purposes ; but the
question now was, What was Gerald todo
? See him she must, and yet that was
not so easy without attracting attention.
Still, warned of the advent of that cousin,
for whom she knew he nourished undying
animosity, Dollie knew he must be. It
would be absurd to suppose that this
contingency had not suggested itself to
the lovers previously, and it had been
arranged between them that Gerald was
to have due warning.

It was not quite so easy for the girl to
see Gerald alone. If Miss Dollie were
once seen to favour one of the stable-lads,
tongues would run riot on Middleton Moor,
and let the thing once reach the ears of
old Grey son and the dismissal of the
offender would be both prompt and summary.

Still, the supineness of her mother

gave the girl more opportunity than she

would otherwise have enjoyed, and

whether it's

Well to sever,

Two fond hearts for ever,

as the song says, I can't say, but they area
little difficult to keep apart in these
times.

Dollie found means to let her lover
know that he must meet her at the low
fence at the bottom of the orchard, which,
abutting on a portion of the stables, was
not liable to attract attention, and had
occasionally served them in such stead
before. Their meetings had naturally
been rare, though they got a glimpse of
each other daily, and in one's teens, when
smitten by the love god's arrows, that
goes for much.

Gerald," she said, "I can only snatch
a few moments to talk to you — you know
how risky our meeting is, and that if

my father had any suspicion of the terms
we stand upon he would no longer hear
of your holding your present position.
Stop, don't interrupt me," she continued,
as he made a sign of remonstrance ; " what
we have rather feared is about to take
place. Mr. Elliston and his partner are
coming to see the horses tomorrow morning
! "

Which comes to the same thing. Your
father, of course, will know all about it ;
it is impossible that my cousin and Pearson
will not recognise me."

Not necessarily," replied Dollie.
Your companions and even yourself
swathe your throats these chilly spring
mornings pretty closely in woollen comforters.
You must take an extra turn or
two with your wraps tomorrow. I think,
then, if you pull your cap well down over
your brows, the complete change in your
dress, and the idea of finding you in such
a position being so utterly unexpected,

will prevent any recognition on their
part. Bear in mind, too, the owners comedown
to see their horses, and take very-little
heed of the boys that ride them.
Besides, they both of them detest the
Dancing Master, and are not very likely
to take much notice of him. He cost
them a deal of money last year, and I
heard Mr. Elliston say that it was far
cheaper to shoot brutes like that than to
sell them, as you might then be tempted
to back them once more on the strength
of what they could do, and in defiance of
your being aware that they wouldn't doit
— in public."

It's all very well for you to argue
like that, Dollie ; but no man fond of
horses could resist looking over the Dancing
Master just now. He's in the bloom
of condition ; Caterham won the Guineas,
and Phaeton scored the Leger ; yet, when
it comes to looks, they really are not in it
with that queer-tempered grey, and what's

more, would not be in it either when it
comes to galloping, if the villain would
only try."

Does he go any better with you,
Gerald?"

"Well, it's hard to say; there are
mornings when he will stride along as
kindly as possible, and be as nice a horse
as a man can care to ride. Then, perhaps,
the next day neither I nor any one
else can do anything with him. He will
always, I should think, be a very dangerous
horse to put money on. I suppose I
must follow your advice, and chance not
being recognised ; but I fancy tomorrow
morning will see the termination of my
engagement on Riddleton Moor ; " and
Gerald looked rather sentimentally across
the fence into Dollie's charming face.

Nonsense ! " she replied ; u do as I tell
you, and it will be all right. If it could be
avoided, no doubt it would be better ; but
it is a contingency that you were sure to

VOL. I. q

have to face sooner or later ; and now I
must run away, I dare not stay longer.
Good-bye, Gerald, dearest ; and remember
one thing, let nothing induce you to open
your lips if possible; but if you must
speak, you cannot be too brief and
husky." With which parting advice
Dollie Greyson kissed her hand and sped
up the orchard.

The next morning saw Gerald enveloped
in many folds of woollen comforters,
with cap slouched down and
shoulders hunched up, on the back of the
Dancing Master, wending his way with
his fellows to the far side of Riddleton
Moor. He complained to them in thick
husky tones of the chilliness of the moor,
and affected as much as possible to be
suffering from a severe cold. The string
had been leisurely walking about sometime
before Bill Greyson was seen driving
a small waggonette across the turf towards
them ; in his two companions Gerald recognised

at a glance the two men whose
observation he was so anxious to escape.

"The horses are all well, you say,
Grey son, but I don't know that there is
much to be done with them. Caterham
and Phaeton are so thoroughly exposed
that they will have to run a bye or two
before they get well into a handicap.
There's no money in cup-racing, and
Pearson and myself infinitely prefer
swelling our banker's account to decorating
our sideboards."

Caterham, sir, would have a very fair
chance of the City and Suburban," said
the trainer, drily.

Precisely what the public think,
Grey son, and the public accordingly will
have one more lesson about the imprudence
of jumping to erroneous conclusions.
Having, in their anxiety to grow rich,
backed the winner of the Guineas, they
will have the satisfaction of learning that
this isn't his race, and paying their money

Q2

accordingly. Ah ! you have that ill-tempered
grey brute out, I see. Of course
he is well — that sort always are. Like
bad tempered men, their contrariness
keeps them in health. He don't improve
in his manners ? "

"No, sir," replied the trainer. "I
suppose, though, he had better go to Newmarket
on the off chance. Though I'm
afraid we shan't take the Two Thousand
this year."

He don't go at my expense," sneered
Cuthbert Elliston ; " and, what's more, I
don't intend the brute to eat at my expense
either much longer. If Pearson
here likes to send him, well and good ;
but I don't suppose he means to throw
money away more than myself."

No," replied the lawyer, laughing ;
u I've no money to spend in travelling a
trick horse about the country. The fact
is, Bill, we are both going for Pibroch.
Sir Marmaduke's got the money down

in earnest, and declares he will win the
length of a street."

"Well, sir," replied the trainer, quietly,
"it's a pity not to run the Dancing
Master. He's very fit and well just now ;
it's a big stake to pick up, and he might
take it into his head to do his best. His
sort do at times— more especially when
you don't back 'em "

Now, look here," replied Elliston,
sharply, ' l let's know at once what you're
driving at. What are you trying to persuade
me to send that worthless brute to
Newmarket for ? "

"Why, to tell you the truth, Mr.
Elliston, I've got a thousand to thirty
about him. I shall probably be able to
hedge if he starts, and thereby save my
thirty pound."

Ah ! you want to save your thirty
pound at my expense. We will think
about it. Meanwhile let's see him
gallop''

Pulling up, and handing the reins to
Cuthbert Elliston, Grey son got out of the
waggonette, walked across, and gave a
few directions to the head boy.

U A good half-speed gallop, William,"
said he, " and bustle 'em up a bit in the
last half-mile."

The string got into Indian file, Joe
Butters, on last year's Leger winner,
leading ; Caterham laid next, and a very
useful five-year plater, who had done the
stable yeoman's service, followed, while
the Dancing Master, with Jim Forrest in
■ the saddle, closed the procession. Intent
more upon concealing his identity 7 " than
the business in hand, Jim was as nearly
as possible deposited on the broad of his
back as Butters gave the signal to go.
The Dancing Master responded to the pressure
of his rider's knees by a plunge and
a couple of buck jumps that would have
proved too much for most lads, and landed
Jim Forrest on the grey's neck.

You haven't improved that amiable
brute's temper an atom'' sneered Elliston,
in those sharp, clear, acid tones that had
superseded the soft, training accents of
his younger days; " and putting up such
a young duffer as that to ride him is not
likely to make him more tractable 5

16 He's not a bad boy, sir," replied the
trainer, quietly; u but that grey colt's
rather too much for any of 'em."

By Heaven, he means going now ! "
exclaimed Pearson, as the Dancing
Master, after shaking his head rather
seriously, as if taking in the position of
affairs, took hold of his bit and dashed
furiously in pursuit. That he should
speedily overhaul his leaders was nothing,
they were only going half speed, and it
was quite evident that it was just all Jim
could do to prevent the grey getting clean
away with him. Still, Pearson and Ellis-ton
knew a galloper when they saw one,
and the long, low, raking stride, and the

way he ran up to his horses, impressed
them strongly.

By Jove ! " said Pearson, " temper or
no temper, a mover like that can never
be said to be quite out of the race."

"Yes, he covers ground when he begins.
But you don't suppose at Newmarket
that they're going to canter at
starting just to suit his convenience, do
you ? Why, they would have been halfway
to the winning-post before the grey
beggar thought it was time to begin.
Hah ! Look at him now ! Oh, you
beauty ! A platoon of musketry in the
home paddock is about what you're fit for."

As the last words escaped his lips, the
Dancing Master stopped as abruptly ashe
had started, and commenced to kick,
and when he once more condescended to
resume galloping his stable companions
were finishing at racing pace. Jim Forrest,
with a view to escaping observation,
stopped his ill-tempered charge some distance

below the point where the others
had pulled up, and walked him slowly
back the far side of the gallop.

Well, Grey son, they all look well and
flourishing, but I don't see any opportunity
of slipping them just yet ; as I said
before, the public have helped themselves
to all the money about the City and
Suburban — and I hope the public will
enjoy the result. We must wait for our
chance. It will come before the year is
out. As for that grey devil, Tm not
going to pay his train to Newmarket."

is Pity, too, sir," said the trainer, "not
to have a cut at such a big stake on the
off chance."

No, Greyson ; you are very considerate,
but I'm not going to pay insurance
on your thirty sovereigns. Stop ! I'll tell
you what I'll do with you. If you choose
to pay the brute's expenses you may. If
he wins I'll take the stakes, but the horse
shall be yours. Remember, the winner

of the Two Thousand will be worth
money, and if you take my advice you'll
part with him to the first man that makes
a decent offer."

Done, Mr. Elliston. It won't be the
first hundred I've made a big hole in by
taking long odds ; but still, what with the
thousand I shall stand to win, and what
the horse will be worth if he does win,
it's good enough to chance."

Glad you think so. I shouldn't have
thought it so myself; but there is one
thing you have rather overlooked — you
will find it difficult to get any one to ride
all the jockeys worth having are engaged."


That don't matter, sir," replied Grey-son,
as he got into the waggonette and
resumed the reins. " In a case like this
it's no use wearing money. I shall just
put one of the lads up. Jockeys as a rule
can't do much with a colt like the Dancing
Master. If that horse is to win he'll

have to do it himself; he's pretty certain
to decline either assistance or interference.
The only orders I should give the best
man in England would be, ' Get well off,
and then leave him alone.' And now,
gentlemen, I should think you're about
ready for breakfast."

Arrived at the house, Greyson ushered
his guests into the dining-room, the table
of which was spread with all the substantial
luxuries of a genuine Yorkshire
breakfast, — home-smoked hams, game pie,
kippered salmon, hot rolls, new-laid eggs,
&c, with Mrs. Greyson, radiant in smiles
and ribbons, presiding at the tea equipage.
Like other invalids one has met, she could
always make an effort for company. The
gentlemen were both old friends of hers,
and Elliston, indeed, not a little of a
favourite. The sneering manner, habitual
to him in talking to her husband, he
entirely dropped in speaking to Mrs.
Greyson ; and Cuthbert Elliston's tongue

had by no means lost its cunning when
it came to charming a woman's ear. He
gave a slight start of astonishment when
Mrs. Greyson presented him to her
daughter. He had not seen Dollie for
the last three or four years, and in the
pretty, bright-haired girl, with her trim
figure and perfectly possessed manner, he
could see no trace of the wild little hoyden
only hazily remembered.

And so you are Dollie ! " said he,
gazing at her with a bold stare of admiration
which brought the blood faintly to
her face. " Upon my soul, Greyson, I
congratulate you. I never dreamt that
the little tomboy of a few years back
would grow up so pretty a girl. Pray,
are you as fond of schooling the young
horses as you used to be ? "

I don't think I ride any worse," replied
Dollie. M I can certainly say my
nerve is as good as ever."

Yes," said her father, fondly ; " she

finished in the first flight with the York
and Ainsty more than once last winter."

Ah," said Elliston; " what, you were
the Miss Greyson that was often out with
them when they met on the York side? I
never had a turn with them myself, and
always supposed it was some cousin of
yours, a daughter of the Coney Street
fellow. Gad ! with that red-gold hair,
those dark curly eye-lashes, and a neat-fitting
habit, you must have made wild
work with the young bloods of the York
and Ainsty."

I don't know much about that, Mr.
Elliston," replied the girl, laughing.
They were all civil and courteous
enough to me in the hunting field — old
and young — ever willing to do me a good
turn, show me an easy place, or holloa tome
not to try something beyond my
powers. Will you take some more tea?
That ham, Mr. Pearson, is of mother's

own curing, and we rather pique ourselves
upon our hams at Middleton''

First-rate ham, Miss Greyson ; and
that's about the best game pie I've peeped
into, Bill, for many a long day. God
bless my soul ! " chuckled the sporting
attorney; "if the 'good things' on the
top of the moor were only half as good as
those in the dining-room at the bottom,
what millionaires we should all be ! Dear
me," he added, addressing the trainer;
only think of the good things that we
two have not only stood in but pulled off.
We have made a little bit, Bill ; but
what's the use of a little bit ? — we wanted
a tidy house down here, then a moor in
Scotland, then a pretty comfortable shanty
in London. And that's where it was —
we always play for too much; 'twas
always either that Scotch moor or that
town house that beat us ; turf-gambling
is like building card-houses — you never

know when to stop; you get the third
storey up with infinite trouble, and you
always go for that fourth storey, and
down the whole thing conies, and you
have to begin again. There's a time
when I could have gone clean out of the
business with twenty thousand in my
pocket. I've seen many a bitter day
since then, and would be glad now to get
out of it for half the amount."

Just the way with all you half-plucked
ones," rejoined Elliston, jeeringly.
u I play for the lot, and mean to
have it yet. We'll be rum customers to
tackle, Sam, when the autumn handicaps
come round. Mark me, if we're not."

u Yes, Mrs. Greyson, just one more
cup of tea ; and, I can't help it, but I
must positively ask Miss Dollie there for
another rasher of ham. What with the
way you cure 'em, ma'am, and the
Riddleton air, I always feel that a second

ham on the table leaves plenty of room
for inquiry.' '

u Look sharp, old man'' chimed in
Elliston, as the trainer's wife beamed with
satisfaction at the lawyer's compliment to
her housewifery. " Every one has known
for years that Mrs. Greyson is not only
about the best-looking woman in the
riding, but with the sole idea of what a
Yorkshire breakfast should be. If ever a
woman was tired of compliments, you
should be, Mrs. Greyson; it is no disparagement,
Dollie, to say we were born
too soon, and remember your mother ;
but, my dear, you'll turn some of the
young uns foolish before many months
are over. Now, Sam, I've to catch the
London train. We must make a start of
it. Good-bye, Mrs. Greyson, good-bye.
Our trap's at the door, I see. Wish you
luck at Newmarket, Greyson; that is if
you still persist in such Midsummer madness."


u What does Mr. Elliston mean by
wishing you luck at Newmarket ? " inquired
Dollie, as the sounds of the carriage
that was conveying her father's
patrons died away in the distance.

He's given me leave to send the
Dancing Master to run for the Guineas if
I like to pay the expenses'

a Is it worth while, father ? "

Well, lass, you see, I've got a nicish
bet about him. He's wonderfully well
just now, and he's a flyer when he likes.
It's all the odd's I've got against his
liking, but I tell you he'll make mincemeat
of his field if he takes it into his
head to try. I shall send that new lad,
Forrest, with him. He can do more with
the horse than any one''

And yet he nearly killed him to begin
with."

Quite true, Dollie, but the lad has
two great qualities of a horseman — hands
and patience. The Dancing Master's

VOL. I. R

disposition is not heavenly, but he is more
likely to run kind with young Forrest
than with any one else."

And if he won, it would be the making
of him ! " cried the girl, eagerly.

Well, yes, he'd get another chance or
two, no doubt, after winning the Guineas,"
rejoined the trainer, as he eyed his daughter
with no little astonishment. " But
what interest have you in him ? Why do
you ask ? "

Oh, none. Only I saw his first fight
with the horse. As Mr. Elliston says, 1 1
wish you luck,' father," and so saying
Dollie tripped out of the room.

CHAPTER XV.

THE TWO TRIALS."

Dollie ran upstairs. She wanted to be
alone to think. Here was her dream on
the verge of being realised. Next week
Gerald would " don silk" for the first time
and be embarked on the career she had
marked out for him. Had she done right
in advising him to embrace such a hard
and onerous business ? And yet, with his
aptitude for riding, his light weight, and
nerve, conjoined with his apparent inaptitude
and distaste for anything else, what
better path in life was open to him ? He
was going through all the drudgery of his
profession at present (your footman dubs
himself a professional gentleman nowadays

R 2

why not ?), and none knew better than
she how hard that apprenticeship was.
But then, again, was not the novitiate of
all careers laid through stony places? The
Church, the Bar, Medicine, what you will,
did not men find bread and cheese hard
to earn at first in all of them ? It is not
every soldier who becomes a K.C.B., nor
every sailor who attains a seat on the
Admiralty Board, and even when they do
they will tell you, to use Sam Slick's
words, their early life was " not all beer
and skittles." There are always many
more blanks than prizes in lotteries, and
in none more so than the lottery of life.
There was no career in which a competence
could be realised in so short a
time by skill, pluck, and prudence, as that
she had counselled, always providing there
was natural aptitude for the profession to
start with, and that the luck, an invariable
adjunct to success in any path, was vouchsafed
the aspirant.

Still, Dollie could not refrain from a
slight shiver as with her dear little practical
head she counted up the chances.
Her lover had got his opening far sooner
than she had dared to hope, and yet what
a very dubious one it was ! Gerald's
success depended mainly, not on his own
skill, nerve, and determination, but on the
uncertain temper of the brute he was to
ride. Dollie thoroughly understood the
Dancing Master. She knew her father's
estimate of the horse, and she knew that
her lover had formed a similar opinion.
He had not her father's experience, but
Gerald did know something about horses.
What would he think of this chance when
he heard of it ? Dollie knew very well
that any of the leading jockeys would feel
ineffably disgusted at finding that destiny
condemned them to bestride such a mount
for a big race. Gerald surely would not
be so foolish. These unpromising chances
have been the starting point of many a

man's life, and it is hardly likely that our
first brief is quite what we would have
chosen. Then Dollie wished exceedingly
that she could be the first bearer of the
news to her lover, and hear what he had
to say about it, but, as before said, it was
not easy to get speech of him without a
little manoeuvring. And then, as the
warm March sunlight glinted into the
room, for the bluster was out of the month,
and it had arrived at that lamb-like stage
in which it is traditionally supposed to
close its career, Dollie fell asleep. A
pretty picture the girl made, seated in an
old-fashioned black oak chair close to the
open lattice, with her small hand buried
in her red gold hair, and her long dark
curling eyelashes sweeping her somewhat
pale cheeks, for Dollie. though enjoying
excellent health, had a somewhat delicate
complexion, to which even the air of
Riddleton Moor never gave a dairy-maid's
colour. The breath fell low and regularly

from the slightly parted lips, and gradually
the girl's hopes, thoughts, and inspirations
began to seethe and bubble in that most
restless of all cauldrons, the sleeper's
brain. She was on Riddleton Moor, and
Gerald once again waged that dire
struggle for mastery betwixt horse and
rider ; yet again a half cry escaped the
sleeper's lips, and a stifled murmur of
Killed, killed!— my God! killed at
my bidding ! " Then the grey, with
lowered crest and drooping ears, crossed
her vision, and a triumphant cry from
Gerald rang in her ears : " Conquered all
the same, Dollie ; see — he's cowed, he's
cowed." Once again turned the picture,
like the ever-shifting combinations of a
kaleidoscope, and Gerald, stretched pale
and senseless on a hurdle, with the blood
trickling freely from an ominous wound
in his forehead, passed, like Banquo's
ghost, in ghastly procession athwart her
troubled brain ; then she was seated in a

carriage on the famous Heath at Newmarket
— heath, mind, that Dollie had
never as yet seen. She saw the undulating
emerald swathe stretching far away
on every side as she had never seen turf
yet, and comprehended at once a remark
of her father's that had often puzzled her :
u There are horses that won't run at Newmarket
; the expanse of the heath seems
to cow them." The Two Thousand was
about to be run. Oh, where did they
start ? Could nobody tell her ? She
appealed to several people — people she
did not know ; but whose faces she saw
distinctly in her dream ; but nobody
seemed to know anything about it, while
every one seemed to wonder what she
did there. Then suddenly she encountered
Cuthbert Elliston, who, in answer to
her mute appeal, pointed derisively to a
place where some dozen or more of horses
were kicking, rearing, plunging, and indulging
in all sorts of equine vagaries ;

but, prominent amongst them all, like
Lucifer, Son of the Morning," in the
midst of his satellites, was that handsome
iron grey colt, taxing all Gerald's powers
to retain his seat, without troubling his
head about the control of his unruly-charge.


Then came a chaos in Dollie's dream,
and the horses and riders were all blended
in apparently inextricable confusion, such
as one sees in some spectacle of the arena
just previous to the whole mass tumbling
into their proper places. Then came a
burst of light, and a troop of gaily-cozened
horsemen streamed in a clump across the
plain, while another, in the far background,
battled fiercely with a truculent
grey steed. Again the scene becomes
misty, and when the white fog lifts that
contumacious grey colt is leading his field
six lengths, and the roar of the Ring
proclaims the fact that Bill Grey son wins,
and the bookmakers have had a good race.

Enthusiastic those children of the brazen
throats and mystic circle whenever a
neglected outsider comes to their aid.
Once more the girl's high-strung nerves
carry her away, and she pictures in her
slumbers an objection after the race.
Gerald has won ; but they decline to
award him the prize. She does not know
what is wrong, but she is conscious that
Gerald's claim is disallowed. She does
not know the reason, but is quite clear
upon that point. He has won, and he
has lost. Scored a big race, and buried
a reputation ; ah, why ? — how ? And
then the tears well slowly under the long
curled lashes, and Dollie once more subsides
into dreamless oblivion.

Queer things these visions of the nighttime
— distorted pictures of our waking
fancies, for the most part. Panoramas
we usually imagine them ; blurred photographs,
and of very short duration, what
they actually are.

But wherever there is a prohibitive
ukase so also there is a contraband trade.
Lovers, whose affair does not quite meet
with the approval of the powers that beare
sure to arrive at an underground post.
Did not the authoress of " Mes Larmes,"
like the woodpecker, investigate a hollow
tree in search of the Catullus-like effusions
of young Mr. Pendennis r and did it not
stand to reason that Dollie and Gerald
also possessed a letter-box unrecognised
by the Post Office officials ?

In accordance with instructions so received,
Gerald was by the low fence at
the back of the orchard that evening.

What is it, dearest'' he inquired,
their first greetings over. " You said
something of importance.' Does that
mean good news for me in any shape ? ''

I think so, but you will be a better
judge than I of that. You are to be sent
to Newmarket to ride in the Guineas."

u By Jove, that's a big opening," exclaimed

young Rockingham ; " rather too
big. You see that means riding against
all the best form in England, and I can't
flatter myself I'm equal to that. But it's
not likely I'll be put upon anything that's
good for much."

You are to ride your present charge,
Gerald, and I've heard you say, as my
father does, that, if he likes, the Dancing
Master's the best three - year - old in
England*'

I believe honestly he is ; but, Dollie, I
know the horse thoroughly, and tell you
candidly that, as far as I am concerned, I
shall have very little to do with it. He
will do as he likes, and George Fordham
himself could do nothing with him if he is
in one of his wicked moods. It's a bit of
very doubtful luck. My precious cousin
is not likely to overlook me at Newmarket
if I am riding his horse."

Why he never noticed you here."

True ; but I can't muffle up there.

Men take stock of jockeys in a big race
who never notice stable-boys. Then,
again, Cuthbert Elliston hates the sight of
the Dancing Master, he has lost his money
over him so often ; and, as the horse behaved
particularly badly this morning, he
never came near him to look him over. It
was easy not to be recognised here, but
at Newmarket it will be almost impossible
to escape detection."

And what if you are ? " asked Dollie,
proudly.

Ay, I know I ought to say also i What
if I am ? ' " rejoined her lover, sadly. " I
ought to be thankful to get an honest
living any how, but you see I can't quite
forget the old pride of birth and position,
and wince at the idea of Gerald Rockingham
being seen riding races for a living."

You'll have to face that, dearest," she
rejoined in a low voice. "If you love me
it ought not to seem so very dreadful. If

you fear to face the world as a jockey,
how will you find the courage to marry a
trainer's daughter ? "

You're right, Dollie," he replied,
firmly. "All the world knows I'm ruined.
It is well they see one Rockingham get a
living by the turf. But did your father
say positively he should send the horse to
Newmarket, or is it to depend on the result
of a trial ? "

No ; he said he should chance it. That
there was no dependence to be placed on
the Dancing Master."

He's quite right. He might win here
and lose on the Heath, or vice verse"

And now, Gerald, I must run away,
or else I shall be missed. I dreamt I saw
the whole race this afternoon. I fell
asleep, and thought they all behaved very
badly at the post, but none so badly as
your horse, and then all was mist, and
then I saw you win easily."

tC Good-bye, clearest' said young Rockingham,
gaily. " We want no better trial
than that''

Good-bye," whispered Dollie, for she
resolved not to dash her lover's spirits by
telling him the finish of her dream.
# * &

It is early morning, and there is some
little stir visible on Riddleton Moor.
Under Joe Butters's auspices some of the
boys are carefully unheeding three or four
horses, tightening the girths, and putting
a last touch or two to their toilettes
generally.

"now, young 'un," said Mr. Butters,
oracularly ; "this is the Friday before 'the
Guineas,' and, as usual, we are going to
take the measure of our ' Two Thousand '
horse."

•' I don't suppose we shall learn much
more than we learned the other day when
Mr. Elliston was here to see," said Forrest
sententiously.

We may or may not," retorted
Butters ; " we're going to try that grey
colt in real earnest this morning, regular
weights, and all the rest of it ; what they'll
be, Mr. Greyson only knows. If you
can make your horse run honest, we shall
know whether we ought to win on
Tuesday."

At this juncture the trainer himself
arrived on the ground. Jim Forrest and
three other lads are successively ordered
to get into a weighing-machine already
on the ground, and then Mr. Greyson
indulges in some mysterious juggling with
saddle-cloths and bits of lead. This
apparently at last settled to his liking,
there comes much accurate weighing of
the saddles themselves ; and then the
trainer, assisted by Butters, personally
sees to the placing them on the horses'
backs.

"Now, my lads," says Greyson, quietly,
as, his arrangements completed, he mustered

them down at what they all well
knew was the mile post, tl you are going
to ride a trial gallop this morning; and
mind you pay strict attention to my
orders. You, Sampson, on that three-year-old,
will make the pace as hot as
you can and as long as you can ; but I
reckon the half-mile post will see you
about done with. Take Phaeton to the
front, Matthews, and go on with the running
as soon as Sampson has shot his bolt;
while you, Tom, wait upon Phaeton till
a hundred yards from home, and then
go up with Caterham, strangle him, and
win. Now, Forrest, my only orders to
you are, don't fidget your horse, and win
if you can. If he's running kind and
free, take him along ; if he sulks, nurse
and humour him ; but you are to be first
past the post if you can."

The boys made no reply, but reined
their horses back, and speedily got well
together, the grey behaving, for a wonder,

with singular propriety, enabling Butters
to give the word " Go " to a very good
start. The three-year-old, whose mission
it was to make the running, dashed at
once to the front, and the Dancing Master,
who seemed suddenly to have completely
changed his disposition, jumping off at
the word, promptly took second place.
Mindful of his horse's irritable temperament,
Jim allowed him to stride along
as he pleased, with the comfortable conviction
that his mount, in racing parlance,
was treading the leader's heels off. Soon
after passing the half-mile post, the three-year-old
making the running, in accordance
with his trainer's anticipation, showed
symptoms of distress, and Jim assumed
the lead, his horse going strong and
well.

"By the Lord! the grey walks in,"
ejaculated Bill Grey son, as, nearing home,
Phaeton tried vainly to run up to the
Dancing Master; and to any judge of

racing it most assuredly looked as if Jim
Forrest would win easily; when, suddenly,
for no apparent reason, the grey swerved,
and, bolting across the gallop, made the
best of his way in the direction of his
own stable, despite all the efforts of his
rider to control him. Then a capital
set-to between the four-year-olds resulted
in the triumph of Caterham by half a
length.

u Mr. Elliston's right," muttered the
trainer. " He ain't worth sending to
Newmarket, or anywhere else ; however,
go he shall this time and take his chance.
The form, too, is right enough ; and, if
he'd only stuck to his work, I should have
tried him good enough to win any Two
Thousand. Yes, Joe," he continued,
turning to Butters ; u you may send 'em
home now; that grey colt would spoil anyone's
breakfast. I suppose he's about got
home by this."

S2

No ; young Forrest has got the upper
hand of him again, and is bringing him
back."

Mr. Greyson made no reply, but shook
his head in moody silence as he mused
over the Dancing Master's iniquities.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE TWO THOUSAND."

There is much stir and bustle in the turf
metropolis this April morning, for is not
the first great three-year-old contest of
the year to be decided in the course of
the afternoon ? Keenly are the respective
merits of the candidates discussed by
lords and legs, by backers and bookmakers.
One name especially seems to
be in all men's mouths, and that not the
name of a horse, but that of a leading
turf magnate. What did Sir Marmaduke
Martindale mean doing? That astute
tactician had two horses engaged, both
were at Newmarket, well, said the horse-watchers,
and each had been backed by

Sir Marmaduke to win a heavy stake ; but
about which would profit him most by
victory opinion differed, and was apt to
be biassed a good deal by what would
most benefit the speaker. Turf vaticination
is more frequently the expression of
the prophet's hopes than a genuine statement
of opinion. Both horses figured
prominently in the betting, and had more
than once changed places in public favour.
Some old stagers who had witnessed much
manipulation of the strings in their time,
and who had been at first considerably
staggered by the bold demonstration in
favour of Bushranger made by Sir Mar-mature
that afternoon at Tattersall's,
laughed now, and declared it was a mere
ruse to drive Pibroch back in the market ;
and it certainly looked like it now, as
those most intimately connected with the
stable were steadily supporting the latter,
and seemed indisposed to invest money on
Bushranger.

"Well," said Cuthbert Elliston to his
partner, as they strolled up and down in
front of the Rooms, "it is all right now ;
but I own Sir Marmaduke frightened me
the day he put so much money on the
second string. We shall land a nice little
haul over Pibroch."

Yes ; if it comes off," replied Pearson.

"Come off! He's certain to win from
all I hear, and Bob Broughton told me
just now he had taken back all he laid
against him ; and Broughton knows what
he is about as well as any man that goes
racing."

"Yes; but there's no certainty about
anything connected with racing, we both
know very well. I've got a message for
you from old Greyson."

"Why, he's not here, is he ? "

No ; but he lias sent Butters in charge
of that grey colt, and bade Butters tellus
from him that the colt is very fit, and
will run well if in the humour."

Perhaps he would ; but then he never
is. Did he try him ? "

Yes ; but it seems the brute bolted,
and therefore he is no wiser than he was
before, as far as that goes."

Well, it is his own speculation' replied
Elliston ; "he pays the entrance and all
expenses connected with the horse's running."


Hum ! " observed Pearson, meditatively.
" Do you think it worth while
having a trifle on the Dancing Master
between us ? Just to save us. We stand
to lose a good bit of money over Pibroch,
you know ; and these rum-tempered
brutes, if they ever win, always do when
you don't want 'em to."

u You can do as you like, of course ;
but I don't fool away last year's winnings
in that fashion. Pibroch and Sir Armature
are good enough ; and we can trust
to the four-year-olds to do us a turn
later on."

Pearson walked away, still turning over
in his mind the fact that Grey son had
thought it worth while to send the Dancing
Master to Newmarket. He was much
more prudent in his speculations than his
partner, and did not at all like the idea of
letting a dangerous horse what is termed
run loose," that is, unbacked, which
might cost him a deaf of money. Old
Grey son he regarded as a very astute
trainer, besides being very careful of his
money ; not in the least given to throw
his bank-notes about rashly. He must
have formed a very high opinion of this
colt to have sent him all the way from
Yorkshire at his own expense. The
Dancing Master was almost friendless in
the betting ; fifty to one being, indeed,
freely offered against him. Sam Pearson
came to the conclusion that it would be
as well to have a trifle on the horse, for
fear of accidents.

And now flies, hacks, and carriages are

all brought into requisition, and the
motley crowd surges out of the town towards
the famous Heath. The London
special is in, and its freight, after scrambling
for a hasty luncheon at the Rutland,
also pour out to the scene of battle. Two
or three minor events are decided, andover
some of these speculation waxed
high, for Sir Marmaduke and his school
would gamble as fiercely over a small
selling race as over one of the great
events of the year. But these at last are
disposed of, and all the leading racing-men
thronged to the Bird Cage to take
stock of the Two Thousand horses. Sir
Marmaduke's pair naturally attracted
most attention. Of Pibroch good judges
were warm in commendation; but much
wonder was expressed that so much
money should have been laid out on
Bushranger, who was pronounced peacocks,
a three-cornered brute, and was
very generally disliked. Had he been

human he could not fail to have been
much wounded by his own unpopularity;
but, as a horse, he was naturally but little
affected by the contumelious epithets applied
to him. The Dancing Master
attracted but little attention ; now and
again some man, who really did know a
galloper's points, would ask eagerly,
What's that ? " but the minute be heard
the name, took no further interest in the
horse. There is seldom much enthusiasm
about rank outsiders, whether on the racecourse
of Newmarket or the racecourse of
life ; when they do win, a crowd flock
round them, stare, and are wildly enthusiastic
about their good qualities ; but it
needs success to reveal these perfections
to the public.

At last the process of saddling is completed,
and the competitors canter down
to the starting-post. Sir Marmaduke exchanges
a few words with his trainer, puts
another thousand on Pibroch, which has

the effect of making that noble animal
one of the hottest favourites which has
run for many a year ; and, as he saunters
up the steps of the Jockey Club Stand in
his usual languid fashion to see the race,
expresses the conviction that his pair will
be first and second.

He always was a beautiful mover,"
muttered Sam Pearson, as he watched the
Dancing Master sobbing lazily down to
the post. u I wonder what boy they have
got on him, and if the young beggar hasa
decent idea of riding. Hang it ! I'm
blest if I don't throw away a tenner on
old Greyson's spec'' And, acting on this
resolution, Pearson hailed one of the magnates
of the Ping, who speedily accommodated
him with five hundred to ten
against the Dancing Master. Hardly
had he done so, when Pearson rather repented
of the wager. The horses were
now in the starter's charge, and the
Dancing Master, sticking his toes in the

ground, steadily refused to go anywhere
near his companions.

Steady, Jim," said Butters, as taking
hold of the horse's head, he caressed him,
and tried, at first unsuccessfully, to lead
him towards the others. " Be patient,
and don't give 'em a chance to start without
you, if you can help it." And the
horse, as if ashamed of the reproof,
walked somewhat sullenly towards his
fellow competitors. Two or three minutes
and down goes the flag, whilst a roar from
the crowd proclaim they are off, and, what
is more, to an excellent start, with one
notable exception. As the flag fell the
Dancing Master gave a sudden plunge,
and jumped off something like two lengths
to the good ; and, to the astonishment of
the lookers-on, was soon sailing away with
the most commanding lead. Jim's spirits
rose. This was a bit of luck he couldn't
have hoped for ! Still he knew well what
a very uncertain temper his mount possessed,

and that, though it was fine just now,
he might expect a change in the weather
at any moment. His horse had taken
hold of his bit, and was striding along in
his very best form. Jim bore in mind
what old Grey son had told him, that his
only chance of winning was to let the
horse do it himself, and not attempt to
assist or interfere in any way with him.
He sat as still as death, not daring to
move, and, as he led his field down the
Bushes' Hill, the riders of Pibroch and
Bushranger began to feel uneasy about
this dark outsider, who showed no sign of
coming back to them. After passing the
Bushes the rider of Pibroch made a
resolute attempt to get on terms with the
grey, but it was useless, and in a few
strides he dropped away beaten, and gave
way to his stable-companion. Half way
up the Hill Bushranger was in difficulties,
but though he struggled on gamely in his
trouble, and answered gallantly to the call

this jockey made upon him, lie only succeeded
in finishing a bad second to the
Dancing Master, who sailed past the Post
four lengths to the good.

Done crisp as biscuits'' exclaimed the
Baronet; " who the deuce could have expected
to find such a flyer amongst the
dark division? Ah, Mr. Elliston, allow
me to congratulate you upon such a coup.
You've a clinking good colt in the grey."

Cuthbert Elliston's face, already settled
into a sullen scowl, darkened considerably
as he heard this pleasant observation.
He had lost a lot of money over the race,
which it was true the stakes would more
than pay, but then again he had given
away his horse — a horse now worth four
thousand pounds or so, and Elliston was
the last man in the world to part with
anything representing that sum gratuitously.
Then again, here had been a
chance of winning a large stake at a comparatively
insignificant outlay, and he had

missed that golden opportunity despite his
trainer's advice. No, Cuthbert Elliston's
expression was by no means heavenly ashe
rejoined curtly :

Thank you, Sir Marmaduke, but I
hadn't a shilling on my own horse, whilst
I stood Pibroch for a raker."

"Ah! the beggar couldn't quite stay,"
replied Sir Marmaduke. " Just what I
was afraid of, but the t'other, ugly as he
is, ran game enough. No idea, of course,
you had such a clipper. Don't want to
sell him, do you ? He's in the Derby, of
course ? "

No, I don't want to sell him, because
he's not mine to sell," retorted Elliston.
"Yes, he's in the Derby, but as he's the
worst tempered brute in England, and
only ran straight to-day by a miracle, 1
don't recommend you to back him for
Epsom."

Sorry, Mr. Elliston, it was such a bad
race for you," returned Sir Marmaduke, ashe

touched his hat in sign of adieu ; u but
I have had too great a twister myself
to offer further condolence. If I can't
buy your horse, perhaps you will part
with your boy. He sat still and rode a
queer tempered horse with both patience
and judgment. Two things not easy to
lay hands on as jockeys go nowadays."

I don't even know who he is, but one
of Greyson's lads, I presume. Good
afternoon, Sir Marmaduke," and Elliston
strolled off to have a look at the Dancing
Master.

That he should receive no end of congratulations
from his acquaintances on his
victory was natural, and what annoyance
these were to a man of his cynical temperament
we can easily imagine. It has
happened to many of us To avow our
intention of doing one thing, and then
doing another, is so common a weakness
of humanity; and when our original intend

I. T

tion has turned up trumps to be complimented
on our astuteness is a bitter but
everyday experience. As he walked towards
where Butters was proudly leading
the Two Thousand victor up and down
amidst an admiring crowd he encountered
Pearson.

A devil of a chance missed, Sam,"
he exclaimed. " Lucky for me I have
got the stakes to draw upon to pay my
bets. But though you are fortunately
not quite so deep in the scrape as myself,
I'm afraid you've had a real nasty race."

"Not so bad as it might have been.
I followed old Greyson's ' final,' and took
five hundred to ten about the winner."

The deuce you did," replied Elliston,
feeling still more disgusted with the race,
if possible, on finding that his partner had
followed the hint he had neglected.

"Yes; but Elliston, do you know who
it was that rode the Dancing Master ? "

Forrest, I think, I heard the young
brute's name was. One of Greyson's boys
of course."

The winner was ridden by one of
Greyson's lads, and that lad was your
cousin's son, Gerald Rockingham."

That young whelp is bound to be my
ruin," growled Elliston, with a savage
execration.

Hum ! I begin to think he may settle
the score his father had against you in
full," said Pearson. u Those acceptances
of yours, remember, have never been
found, but it does not follow that they
don't exist."

He'll get his living in some other
stable, or, better still, his death," returned
Elliston, with a scowl ; " but he'll ride no
more for mine."

"He's not likely to lack riding now,"
observed Pearson with a shrug of his
shoulders.

END OF VOL. I.

1/1 B R.ARY

OF THL
UNIVERSITY
OF ILLINOIS

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR 5 2011?

L161— O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/fromposttofinish02smar

31 Touch.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OP " Breeze LANGTON," " THE GREAT TONTINE," " AT FAULT,
HARD LINES," &C. &C.

•' Looked as though the speed of thought
Were in his limbs: but he was wild,
"Wild as the wild deer, and untaught."

IN THREE VOLUMES,
VOL. III.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and Tali

LIMITED.

1884.
(All rights reserved.)

Printed BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

v. 3

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

gerald's identity proclaimed.

We are most of us blessed with spinster
aunts. I am not speaking ironically of
that acidulated maiden lady, who, in consideration
cf having money to leave
behind her, deems herself entitled both
to cross-examine us about our doings, and
lecture us severely should they not meet
her approval, but of one of those dear old
ladies who are pleased with small attentions,
who take the greatest interest in

//

the careers of all the family, who keep
up a desultory correspondence with every
branch of it, and are always doing small
kindnesses to some of " the failures"
amongst us. They invariably know more
about the family as a whole than any one,
and are usually, in some occult way,
among the first to hear of any good or
evil that may have befallen us. Ellen
Rockingham had an aunt of the latter
type, whom she regarded as a real infliction.
Aunt Mary, Mrs. Rockingham's
elder sister, was a sweet-tempered chatty
old lady, with a modest independence and
a large circle of acquaintance, amongst
whom she was extremely popular. Moving,
as she did, from one country house
to another, and living when in London in
quiet apartments in the vicinity of Portman
Square, she was always quite an fait
with all the current topics of the day, to
say nothing of its gossip. Ellen was one
of the few people who didn't get on with

Aunt Mary, and the cause of discord was
Ellen's extreme religious views. Miss
Stacey was quite orthodox, but very conventional
in her worship. The old lady
was quite content with going to church
once on the Sabbath, and deemed it no
great sin to indulge in forty winks during
the sermon. She was quiet and unostentatious
in her little charities, and perhaps
did no great good in her life, but then she
assuredly did many little kindnesses and
no harm. Aunt Mary a little laughed at
Ellen's night-schools and plans for the
elevation of the bucolic mind, and thought
that the Cranley people infinitely preferred
their Christmas coals and blankets
to drowsy discourses, and the shrewd
practical help in the time of trouble of the
late rector to the egotistical teaching
and stern rebukes for improvidence that
the present incumbent so delighted to
administer. Of course Aunt Mary was
right. Humanity does prefer a shilling

Band

a kindly word to the shilling with
the addenda of a severe lecture on the
want of thrift that necessitates the need
of it.

Now, Aunt Mary, in the expansiveness
of her nature, when she heard of Alister
Rockingham's death and the ruin that
followed, had written promptly to her
sister, and proposed that she and Ellen
should make their home with her, a proposition
which was kindly but firmly
rejected. Still, Aunt Mary naturally took
the keenest interest in the fallen fortunes
of her sister. Some of the sunniest days
of her life had been passed at Cranley,
and she had entertained a most sincere
affection for her brother-in-law. That
Aunt Mary maintained a constant correspondence
with St. Leonard's Place may
easily be imagined, and she was therefore
fully informed of Gerald's mysterious
disappearance. She knew how uneasy
his mother and sister were about him, but

what she did not know was the change
his father's death had wrought in Gerald.
The last time she saw her nephew he had
been a bright, laughter-loving boy, but
the stern compulsion of earning his own
living, and the knowledge that his mother
and sister must depend upon him for those
luxuries which were almost necessities for
women brought up as they had been, had
hardened his character and transformed
him at one bound into a man. The small
income derived from the few thousands
settled on Mrs. Rockingham at her marriage
was all that she and Ellen had left
to them, and Gerald was very anxious to
supplement that to some extent.

Mixing a good deal in society, Miss
Stacey was not very long before she
heard the mysterious Jim Forrest talked
about. People, indeed, began to be very
full of this little romance after Goodwood.
From the club smoking-rooms the story
of the gentleman who had turned professional

jockey speedily spread all through
the London world, and many curious eyes
were bent on the lad's dark face from
among the brilliant throng that crowded
the Grand Stand at the great Ducal meeting.
Still, Jim escaped recognition on
that occasion, but the attention that had
now been drawn to him made it, as Farrington
had warned him, quite impossible
that he could do so much longer.

Ere the October Meetings were over at
Newmarket he had been recognised by
some Yorkshire gentlemen as young
Gerald Rockingham, and the fact was
soon noised all over the heath. The
first intimation Gerald received that his
incognito was at an end came from Lord
Whitby. The news had reached the ears
of that sporting but choleric old peer, and,
happening to encounter Gerald shortly
afterwards in the Birdcage, he astonished
him not a little by holding out his hand,
and exclaiming:

I shall be proud to make your acquaintance,
Mr. Rockingham. I knew
your poor father well, and a better, kinder-hearted
fellow never breathed. Gad! I
admire your pluck 5 and, by Jove, you're
likely to do what neither your father nor
myself ever did— make money out of
racing. "

"I had to do something for myself,
Lord Whitby," replied Gerald, as he shook
hands, u and bar ride and shoot there
seemed nothing I could do. I have done
pretty well so far."

Pretty well ! I should think you had.
The way you got Pibroch home at Good-wood
would have been a credit to any of
the old hands. Damme, I'll give you a
turn myself before long. I can trust you
because you are one of us, but for all that
don't back your mount when you don my
colours. My horses never can win somehow."


Jim Forrest" thanked his lordship,

but for all that he did not particularly
covet any of his riding. The irascible
peer was notorious on the turf for his persistent
bad luck, and his violent outbursts
of temper in consequence. It was not the
money, for he was enormously wealthy,
and, to do him justice, nobody cared less
about money than Lord Whitby, but he
did hate being beaten. In the first tempest
of his wrath at defeat — and horses
will at times fail to do what is expected of
them — he was wont to cast round for some
scapegoat upon whom the cause of his disappointment
might be properly fathered.
Obviously his trainer and jockey stood
out as the proper recipients of his ever
strongly expressed feelings on such occasions,
and no man on the turf had changed
his trainers and jockeys so often as Lord
Whitby. It struck Jim at once that a ride
on one of his lordship's nameless horses
might be productive of much unpleasantness,
albeit he had done his very best by

his mount. His not naming his colts was
another idiosyncracy of the hot tempered
though kind-hearted nobleman.

That the mysterious Jim Forrest is none
other than the son of Alister Rockingham,
who died a ruined man at the commencement
of the year, stricken to death by his
terrible losses over the Phaeton Leger, is
a tale that spreads like wildfire through
the clubs and midst country houses, and
it is not long before Aunt Mary, sojourning
in one of these latter, is made aware
of it, her informant having no suspicion
that Miss Stacey was the aunt of this young
Centaur who had just appeared above the
turf horizon. Aunt Mary was thunderstruck,
she hardly knew for some hours
what to think of it. That a Rockingham
should be getting his living in such
fashion seemed terrible in the old lady's
eyes, but at the same time she could not
but admire the way in which her feather-parted
nephew had met the shock of disaster;

and then again Aunt Mary had lived
too much in the horse-loving county and
amongst racing men not to feel a wee bit
proud of his deeds of " herring-do " in
the saddle. No need to laugh at the
word, though it is only the initiated of
the racecourse who comprehend the nerve,
head, and hands it requires to come round
Tattenham Corner " on the rails."

Aunt Mary, on the receipt of this news,
hurried up to her bedroom to think it all
out. Firstly, had Mrs. Rockingham
and Ellen the faintest idea of what
Gerald was doing — it was some weeks
since she had heard from them ; and
secondly, what were they all to do about
it ? That Gerald had taken his life into
his own hands, and was little likely to
listen to what kith or kin said concerning
the manner of it, was a thing that Aunt
Mary had no conception of. The good
soul thought that she would have to assist
at a little family counsel, consisting of

herself, her sister, and her niece, at which,
whether it was possible for Gerald to continue
this — well, she would call it eccentric
freak — might be calmly debated ; and,
actuated by that impression, made up her
mind to write to York at once. The only
question was whether it were best to write
to Mrs. Rockingham or Ellen. She was
quite aware that she did not quite hit it
off with her niece, but then she was quite
alive to her being a very much stronger
character than her mother. Still, Aunt
Mary could not help thinking that Ellen
would be very much shocked at the calling
it had pleased her brother to adopt.
It might be lucrative ; he might be a great
success in it ; but surely it was rather
infra dig. for a Rockingham to be riding
racehorses for hire.

She knew that, though Ellen was no
doubt sincere in her Calvinistic doctrines,
humility entered but small into her profession
of faith. She judged rightly, that

her niece would carry her head high as
ever in adversity, being quite aware that
Ellen was as proud a girl as ever stepped.
She felt pretty sure that Mrs. Rockingham
and her daughter must be still in ignorance
of this caprice — so Aunt Mary called
it to herself — of Gerald's. Still, it was
only right that they should be made acquainted
with it, now poor Alister was
gone. Gerald had nobody to look to for
advice but his mother and aunt, and a boy
of eighteen required some guidance in
shaping his life.

Ah ! Aunt Mary, you don't know that
boys with any grit in them settle these
things best for themselves, and without
much reference to their womankind.

So Aunt Mary sat down and indited a
letter to her niece, in which she told the
story of Gerald's career as far as she had
been able to learn it. There were plenty
of people who were able to narrate the
history of Jim Forrest, but Miss Stacey

was a little shy in her inquiries if she
thought people the least aware that she
was that rising horseman's aunt. Still, so
much was it the topic of conversation, that
in a few days she had got over all sensitiveness
on that point. The men — and
their opinion does count for something in
the long run — were pretty well unanimous
in their admiration both of his pluck and
his horsemanship.

When a fellow's ruined, by Jove ! you
know, what's a fellow to do ? " observed
the Hon. Bob Manley, who, having reached
that same crisis some ten years previously,
had lived comfortably on his friends and
relations ever since. " He's quite right to
see if he can't get back some of the money
the confounded beggars took from his
father" — a speech which, though a little
incoherent, insomuch as that the bookmakers,
who follow the figures, should in
the long run invariably get the best of the
backers, who follow their fancies — simply

meant that Alister Rockingham had shared
the fate that has attended so many " all
through a backing of the favourite ! "

Even the women for the most part
seemed to think there was nothing derogatory
in the line Gerald had taken up.
It was so eccentric ! — it was so romantic !
Then, he was a success ! He was quite a
lion, and they love that still more. Then,
again, he was said to be good-looking, and
tongues were wagging much about him ;
and, finally, when Lady Di Wanton declared
she would bring up her youngest
boy to the same profession, Aunt Mary
altogether succumbed before the verdict
of that sporting peeress, and wished now
that she had unfolded the tale of Gerald's
iniquity in less despondent fashion.

We are all influenced more or less by
the opinions of our fellows — women more
especially — and with good reason, for none
of there can afford to ignore any combined
opinion of their own sex. Aunt

Mary suddenly found herself quite a person
of some little importance, simply owing
to her relationship with the fashionable
jockey. That all this should produce a
complete reaction in Aunt Mary's opinion
was only natural. Upon first hearing of
Gerald's career she had felt not a little
ashamed ; now, as might have been expected,
she waxed rather garrulous concerning
it, and pronounced his conduct
noble; nay, heroic! confided to her
hearers that her nephew was the grandest
horseman this or any other age had seen,
and then proceeded to recount sundry of
his youthful exploits on his pony with the
York and Ainsty, or over the Cranley
pastures.

At length Aunt Mary received a reply
to her letter. Ellen's answer ran as follows
:—

66 My DEAR AlJNT,- —

You know how anxious we have been

about Gerald and what he was doing, but
even that anxiety was easier to bear than
the dreadful tidings you sent us. How
he can so utterly have forgotten what he
owes to his family as to accept such employment
as you talk of would be beyond
my comprehension but for one thing. He
is the victim at present of an unfortunate
entanglement with a young person, the
daughter of a man of that class ; and
though, in the first instance, I looked
upon it as a mere boyish flirtation, I fear
it is likely to end much more seriously.

"I fancy I can hear you say, 'You
don't mean he is thinking of marrying
her?' Yes, my dear aunt; I am very
much afraid that is what he will do, in
spite of all our remonstrances. You don't
know how Gerald has altered of late. He
has become so hard and obstinate, and
takes his own way about things without
reference to mamma or me. That the

strange career he has adopted was at this
young woman's suggestion I have no
doubt ; that our united persuasions will
fail to induce him to abandon it I have
also no doubt, and yet surely it is our
duty to try what we can do.

Here Gerald's dreadful secret is as
yet unknown, but for you, Aunt Mary,
how I pity you ! I wonder how you ever
dare face society. It must be so very
awkward to be stared at as the near relative
of a professional jockey, or to have
to listen to the comments made on
Gerald's conduct by those ignorant of the
relationship. Our ruin, except for mamma's
sake, I felt but little, and cannot help
saying that I think Gerald might have
spared us this disgrace. I will send you his
address as soon as I know it, and you will
write to him, won't you ? It is our duty
to do all we can to save him from the life
of degradation he has chosen.

Good bye. Kindest love from mam-vol.

III. C

ma, who, like myself, is quite upset by
this new affliction.

*' Ever, dear Aunt Mary,

Your affectionate niece,

u Ellen Rockingham."
The news that Gerald meant to marry
among those of his vocation was a blow
Miss Stacey was quite unprepared for. She
knew very well that though society in its
caprice might applaud " Jim Forrest," the
successful jockey, and even make a lion
of him, they would not recognise his wife
if she sprang from that class ; and then
Aunt Mary pictured a buxom young
woman with hoydenish manner as unlike
Dollie as possible, and knit her brows as
she wondered what the family would be
able to make of her. However, she reflected
Gerald was only just nineteen,
and Ellen probably overrated his obstinacy.
When he was seriously talked
to by them all, he would no doubt see
that this could not be. Boys did get engaged

in this ridiculous fashion sometimes
but nothing ever came of it. Gerald's
offending would terminate, no doubt, in
the usual fashion.

C2

CHAPTER II.

ELLEN CONSULTS JOHN THORNDYKE.

Her letter to Aunt Mary barely conveyed
Ellen's real view on the subject of
Gerald's offending. She really could not
have been more horrified at hearing her
brother was somebody's stud-groom; a
most respectable and trustworthy position,
no doubt, but not one that any girl, born
a lady, could feel anything but shocked
at finding her brother holding. She
racked her brain as to what was to be
done. That anything she, her mother, or
her aunt could say would turn him from
his course she utterly disbelieved, but that
he was to be left to continue such a disgraceful

calling without stern remonstrances
on the part of his near relatives
Ellen thought would be monstrous, and
argue disgraceful neglect of a mere boy
on their part. But who was to speak to
him ? Ah, that was not quite so easy to
say. There were plenty of people, no
doubt, who might speak, but to whom of
them was Gerald likely to pay the slightest
attention ? To those related or
connected with him, Miss Rockingham
made answer to herself — None.

Then Ellen had an inspiration — what
if she should ask John Thorndyke to expostulate
with him ? She did not herself
at all hold with those very Broad Church
views which characterised the Rector of
St. Margaret's, but her common sense told
her that, could they be brought together,
this was the man of all others to talk to
about her brother and the disgrace he was
bringing upon his family. And yet she
felt a little shy about entering into family

affairs with Mr. Thorndyke. Still, who
was she to speak to ? Something must be
done, and at once, and, if anyone could
appeal to Gerald with some chance of
success, the liberal-minded and whilom
sporting Rector — for he owned freely and
mirthfully to that backsliding — was, she
thought, the man to do it. Miss Rockingham
had seen a good deal of John
Thorndyke lately, and had conceived a
great respect and esteem for him. She
still held that his bold views and frank
outspoken treatment of things religious
savoured of want of reverence, yet she
was fain to confess that she could not call
Mr. Thorndyke himself irreverent, while
she acknowledged that the man was
thoroughly honest and in earnest. If his
treatment of his parishioners was, to say
the best of it, peculiar in her eyes, she
knew that he nevertheless worked hard
amongst them, and had undoubtedly won
their confidence and regard, while those

short stirring addresses, with a good deal
of sting in them, too, at times, she saw,
roused the congregation in a manner that
she looked in vain for elsewhere. Miss
Rockingham wondered at times whether
Mr. Thorndyke might not understand how
to influence men's hearts better than Mr.
Brushley, who, though he preached at
considerable length, was wont to have a
soporific effect among his hearers. She
was still a constant attendant in the
latter' s church, and took no inconsiderable
part in the work of that parish, but in
this, her hour of trouble, it was John
Thorndyke whose help she determined to
seek, and not that of the clergyman of
her election. Ellen felt instinctively that
Gerald would listen with scant patience
to an appeal from Mr. Brushley, but
thought somehow with John Thorndyke
it might be different.

It was a cold, raw November day that
Ellen, wrapped in furs, relics of her

former grandeur, of the time when she
was Miss Rockingham of Cranley Chase,
made her way across the city in the
direction of Walmgate Bar.

The parish cf St. Margaret's clustered
round the splendid old gate, which, with
barbican and portcullis, dominates the
Hull Road, standing in rather a poor-looking
part of the city, tenanted in great
measure by the artisan class. Ellen had
never been to Mr. Thorndyke's house
before, but had no difficulty in finding it,
there being plenty of people ready to point
out where parson lived. In answer to
her inquiry Miss Rockingham was informed
that Mr. Thorndyde was out,
but would probably be in before many
minutes. Would she step in and wait ?

"I'll show you into the study, if you'll
excuse it, Miss," said the servant girl in
response to Ellen's assent. " There is no
fire in the drawing-room, and it's a raw
morning. Master said he should be in

by this, and he's mostly pretty close to
his time''

Ellen looked round the room with the
curiosity we all feel upon first seeing the
sanctum of any one in whom we feel
interested. It was not a large room
by any means, and the walls were lined
from top to bottom with bookcases. In
the centre stood a writing-table, not a
gimcrack dandified davenport, but a large,
serviceable oaken one, covered with dark
leather, and well garnished with drawers.
Another plain, square table in the window,
a comfortable armchair on either side of the
fireplace, and a few other chairs scattered
about, pretty well completed the furniture
of the apartment. The tops of the bookcases
were decorated with the busts of
some of the most illustrious Greek and
English poets — aeschylus and Homer,
Shakespeare and Milton, &c, while the
bookcases contained a melange that would
have misled any one studying their contents

considerably as to the position in
the world occupied by their proprietor.
Vows of the Greek dramatists and of the
English classics clothed the shelves on the
one side of the room, while on the other
was a nearly complete edition of the
Racing Calendar," works on farming,
treatises on angling, beginning with Izaak
Walton, and then going down to what the
more modern writers on scientific fishing
had written on the subject. Judging
from that room you would have pronounced
the master of the house a scholar
and a sportsman, but there was nothing
suggestive that he was a clergyman.

Ellen had not to wait long before Mr.
Thorndyke entered.

u Charmed to see you, Miss Rockingham,
though I regret that I should have
kept you waiting. Still I am glad that
my people had the nous to show you into
a room where there was a fire."

I have come to consult you about a

rather painful business," said Ellen, as she
shook hands.

I am sorry to hear it," replied Thorn-dyke,
"but don't be in a hurry. Take
your own time to tell me what your
trouble is. I need scarcely say you are
welcome to any advice or assistance I can
give. Nothing the matter with Mrs.
Rockingham, I trust ? "

No, thank you, my mother is quite
well. It is about my brother that I wish
to speak to you."

John Thorndyke made no reply, but
quietly dropped into the armchair opposite
Ellen, and waited for her to begin.
He knew at once that she had at last
discovered how Gerald was earning his
bread, and from what the rector knew of
Miss Rockingham's feelings on such points
guessed that the discovery was a cruel
mortification to her.

u You know how anxious we were to
find out where my brother was and what

he was doing ; we have heard at last, and,
oh, Mr. Thorndyke, it's too dreadful— too
disgraceful. He is getting his living asa
common jockey ! "

Not quite that, Miss Rockingham, for
he is already eminent in the profession of
his adoption. You must forgive me
neither feeling surprised nor shocked at
what you tell me. I have known it sometime.
I don't know why, but last August,
at Durnford's, when Farrington told us
the history of Jim Forrest, I jumped at
the conclusion that he was your brother.
Still it was not till a couple of months
later that I found my surmise was correct,
and the confirmation of it came in a letter
Farrington wrote to Durnford, in which
he said, 6 Fancy, my gentleman jockey,
the Jim Forrest I told you about, turns
out to be the brother of that handsome
Miss Rockingham whom I met at your
house last summer.' "

Yes ; my aunt wrote word that the

story was in every one's mouth. Poor
Aunt Mary ! No doubt, she hardly dare
go out for fear of being pointed at as the
lady who has got a professional jockey fora
nephew''

Quite the reverse, I imagine, from
what I hear. There is something so
romantic in the idea of a son recovering
from the quicksands of the turf the argosy
his father lost therein that your brother,
Miss Rockingham, if he chose, might bethe
lion of the day. Titled and fashionable
ladies would compete for his company
at their table; but I am told he
lives the life of an anchorite, and is not
to be wooed from his seclusion by mere
1 cakes and ale ' or ' ginger hot i' the
mouth.' "

Mr. Thorn dyke ! " cried Ellen, rising

indignantly, " I come to you in my trouble,

and you jeer at me— make a jest of what

assuredly is no jesting matter to me''

Miss Rockingham," said the rector

quietly, but with a sternness the girl had
never encountered before in his manner,
"lam not in the habit of jeering at people
who come to me in their hour of sorrow.
My office brings before me too
many tales of real suffering that I am
powerless to alleviate not to leave me tenderhearted
and, I trust, sympathetic. If
I have treated your trouble somewhat
lightly, it is because it is imaginary. I
have told you what I firmly believe to bethe
truth concerning it. Your brother is
not held by the world to have disgraced
himself, but, on the contrary, to have distinguished
himself, and might, if he chose,
be the lion of the hour."

You can't really mean this, Mr.
Thorndyke ! " cried Ellen, perfectly aghast
at such an utterly new reading of Gerald's
conduct.

Indeed I do. I look upon it that the
world generally have the good sense to
recognise the pluck and independent spirit

that led your brother to turn to and support
himself in the manner he best might,
instead of sponging on his friends for the
miserable bread of indolence. Remember,
Miss Rockingham, that it is not given to
all of us to follow the path in life we
would have fain chosen for ourselves."

u And I counted upon you to speak to
him, and point out the disgrace he was
bringing upon his name and family," murmured
Ellen.

But I don't see that he is doing anything
of the kind," rejoined Thorndyke.
Although I have no plea on which to
intrude my advice upon your brother,
still, had he fallen into vicious courses, or
amongst evil associates, I would have done
your bidding, Miss Rockingham. Gerald
is leading a healthful life, and following
a profession that requires energy, abstinence,
and self-control. A young fellow
can go through no better discipline ; the
worst of it is it's a little too severe, and

apt to produce a reaction resulting in a
very Capua of self-indulgence."

And you don't think we ought to
remonstrate with him ? " exclaimed Ellen,
in a state of unmitigated surprise at the
view Mr. Thorndyke took of her brother's
proceedings.

I think you had better leave Gerald
to himself. From the independence of
character he has already shown I should
say he has taken his future into his own
hands, and is little likely to brook remonstrance
or advice from any one."

I don't know what to think about it,"
replied Ellen, sadly.

Miss Rockingham, let me tell you a
little story," said the Rector, quietly.
When I was at the University there was
a young fellow there from whom great
things were expected in the future. He
was not only amongst the foremost in the
cricket-field, and devoted to all kinds of
sport, but he stood high in the estimation

of the dons besides, for he worked, as he
played, with all his might, and fought his
way upwards till he was not only in the
University Eleven, but had taken high
honours to boot. The Bar was the career
he had marked out for himself, and he
was about to leave the University and
commence the pursuit of fortune in that
arduous profession, when the sudden
death of his father changed the whole
current of his life. His father was a
quiet country clergyman, who died, leaving
behind him a shy, delicate widow and
an invalid daughter, besides this young
fellow at college. The mother, as those
shy, sensitive women always do, trembled
at the bare idea of transplantation, whilst
the daughter was equally dismayed at the
idea of facing a new world. Where they
were they knew every one ; they had
numerous friends even amongst the
tradespeople. The late rector had been
very popular, and at the earnest request

VOL. III. D

of the parishioners, backed by the strong
testimonials in his favour of the authorities
of his college, the bishop offered the
living to his son, proposing to put in a
curate in charge till such time as the son
could get ordained, and otherwise qualify.
Whether he did rightly or no is not forme
to say, but my friend, after taking
one night to think over it, accepted the
bishop's offer. It was the one way he
could keep a comfortable home, much less
the home they were attached to, over the
heads of his mother and sister. You may
say he had no right to embrace so sacred
a vocation without feeling a decided call
for it. He acted as he thought right.
He sacrificed himself for those nearest and
dearest to him, and, from the moment he
elected to take up the cross, abandoned
all those pursuits of which hitherto he had
been so passionately fond, as incompatible
with his new profession. Like your
brother, Miss Rockingham, he was compelled

to embark in a career not of his
own electing, but whatsoever his hand
found to do he did it with all his might,
and has ever laboured honestly and conscientiously
to do his duty in that path of
life to which it pleased God — not himself,
mind — to call him. A man, I hold, can
do no more."

John Thorndyke became silent, and
was apparently absorbed in reverie. Ellen
broke the stillness by never a word.

At last she spoke.

u Mr. Thorndyke, you are wiser and
better than I ; and I beg your pardon for
troubling you with my foolish pride.
Your story— for of course it is your own
is strangely like my brother's ; but —
but you had the alternative of — I can't
help saying it — embracing the profession
of a gentleman ; while poor Gerald "

Had to embrace a more healthy,
lucrative, and, to him, congenial career.

D2

Pray, don t distress yourself about your
brother, Miss Rockingham. You will find
most men and women, whose opinion is
worth having, ay, and worldly people,
too, will endorse my opinion, and admire
your brother's pluck and independence."

I hope we may get used to it intime,"
replied Ellen, with just a slight
shake in her voice ; for this really was a
serious trouble to the girl ; " and that
Aunt Mary may not find it a serious
annoyance in society. And now I must
say good-bye, with many apologies for
trespassing so long upon your good
nature. Only one question more'' she
added softly. " I trust your mother and
sister are happy ? "

ei They have both been at rest now
some years, Miss Rockingham ; but that
their last days on earth were tranquil was
an inexpressible consolation to me. Goodbye."


John Thorndyke escorted her to the
door bareheaded; and, as Ellen walked
home, she thought about the Rector of
St. Margaret's in a way she never had
yet. He had become a hero in her eyes.

CHAPTER III.

THE DANCING MASTER PROVES INCORRIGIBLE.

A letter from Aunt Mary confirmatory
of Thorn dyke's words did much to reconcile
Ellen to Gerald's present course of
life. That it was right for a Rockingham
to ride races for hire she could not believe,
any more than it would be that he
should drive a cab. It was a comfort to
find that the world looked leniently upon
it, and regarded the affair apparently as a
piece of pardonable eccentricity. She
was not blind to the independent spirit
Gerald had shown, and upon what John
Thorndyke had laid such stress, but she
did wish it had taken some other direction.

Surely he might have found something
better to do than race-riding. Ellen
did not know what a well-paid profession
jockeyship was in these days, nor did she
quite understand the difficulty a young
gentleman, with no special qualifications,
had about finding something to do.

Suddenly it occurred to Ellen that she
had forgotten to confide to Mr. Thorn-dyke
the more serious part of Gerald's
offending — to wit, his contemplated marriage.
Surely Mr. Thorndyke would not
approve of Gerald's marrying out of his
class. That could have nothing to do
with "the spirit of independence" so
much lauded, and even the Rector of St.
Margaret's, liberal as he was in his ideas,
could hardly approve of such a fusion of
classes as that marriage would be. Then
it suddenly occurred to Miss Rockingham
that, much as she valued the opinion of
John Thorndyke, it was quite possible
her brother might see no necessity for the

rector's approval on a matter so nearly
concerning himself. Moreover, Mr. Thorn-dyke
had already declared that he had
no plea upon which to interfere in Gerald's
affairs, and given her to understand that
only to rescue the lad from a dissolute
life, and at the earnest desire of his people,
could he have any pretext for meddling
with Gerald in any way. Now Gerald
was doing nothing of that sort, but was
leading a steady, hard-working life from
all accounts, so Ellen sorrowfully came to
the conclusion that it would be useless to
ask his advice about that siren Dollie.

The dead season, as racing men call it,
had now commenced ; that is to say, the
legitimate racing year was finished, and
till the saddling-bell pealed forth on the
Caroline at Lincoln turfites had nothing
to do but to study the " Calendar" and
discuss the events of the past twelvemonths.
No story perhaps more bandied
about than that of Gerald Rockingham,

for all race-goers, as well as society, knew
now that he and Jim Forrest were one.
Gerald had thrown off all disguise about
it, and, though he still retained his
assumed name of ci Jim Forrest," frankly
admitted to all who cared to know that
he was the son of Alister Rockingham.

The promulgation of his real name, to
tell the truth, promised to do the young
fellow considerable good. He had already
shown that he was an artist in the saddle,
capable of holding his own with the foremost
jockeys of the day, and many an old
friend of his father's followed Lord
Whitby's example, and promised to give
him a turn when the game began again.

Gerald, of course, wrote openly now to
his own people concerning his career. He
told them how well he was doing, how he
had already money in the bank, and how
high were his hopes for the future. About
Dollie he said nothing, but Ellen did not
augur there was any likelihood of his engagement

falling through from such ominous
silence. Still, all that winter, though
his letters were frequent, he never came
to York. He remitted more than one
comfortable little cheque to St. Leonard's
Place, but pleaded he was too busy studying
his profession to have time even to
run up at Christmas, at which Mrs. Rockingham
made vehement protest. But it
was no use, Gerald remained resolutely
at Newmarket, where he volunteered to
give a canter, when weather permitted,
to any horse requiring one, and Mr.
Pipes, with whom he had become a great
favourite, more than once invited him to
give some of the Panton Lodge colts " a
lesson," which his patience, tact, and
delicacy of hand made really invaluable
to a nervous young one. But this Gerald
steadily declined to do. He made some
trivial excuse at first, but at last told the
trainer right out that, handsomely as Sir
Marmaduke had always behaved to him,

he could not forget that the baronet had
taken his jacket away, and, therefore, he
could not think of interfering in his stable
without express orders from him, which,
as Sir Marmaduke was away gambling
at Nice, shooting pigeons, and fruitlessly
endeavouring to break the bank at Monte
Carlo, he could hardly be expected to
give.

Still, Gerald worked hard that winter,
and was constantly on the back of some
awkward-tempered colt, employed in the
not very enviable task of teaching it
manners, and before the public were hurrying
to Lincoln to once more try topick
the winner of that most difficult of
handicaps, and lose their money by backing
the always beaten favourite for " the
Brocklesby's,'' the Newmarket trainers had
come to the conclusion that there wasn't
a lad at Newmarket that could communicate
such confidence to a nervous " young
one '' as Jim Forrest, and many were the

good-natured assurances that he needn't
fear but what he'd get plenty of riding
in the coming season.

We have all our days, our seasons !
What ordinary shooting man does not
remember the day on which it seemed
he couldn't go wrong, could not miss them
if he tried ? Many of us can recall that
day in the racket-court when we played
a good seven aces over our game, and
astonished our friends in the gallery nota
little. Billiards the same ; and what
hunting-man does not recollect the time
he got well away with the leading hounds,
slipping the whole field by a quarter of a
mile or so, and, his blood up, rode as he
never did before or since ? So it is with
racing, and old turfites can recollect " Sir
Joseph's," year, more than one of them:
but '51 will do for a sample, Mr. Merry's,
"The Baron's," a very constellation of
triumphs, and latterly, Lord Falmouth's.
This coming season was destined to be

known in turf-lore as Lord Whitby's and
Jim Forrest's year. The fates, tired at
last, it may be presumed, of persecuting
that irascible nobleman, seemed to have
handed him over to be the spoilt child of
Fortune ; and from the Craven Meeting
all through the year his lordship's well-known
colours were seen continually in
the van. True to his word, he had commenced
by giving Jim Forrest some of
his riding, and Jim was not the man to
throw away a chance when he really had
a good horse under him. As he scored
victory after victory for his employer,
Lord Whitby, to whom a series of successes
were extremely titillating on account
of the rarity with which such
triumphs had been vouchsafed him, was
in high good humour with his new jockey.
He somewhat over-estimated his horsemanship,
and, forgetting that he had a
better lot of colts than it had ever been
his luck to own before, vowed that Jim

Forrest was the best jockey on the turf ;
and then, by Jove, sir, he's a Rockingham,
and one knows he'll ride straight,"
a remark which, though doubtless true of
Gerald, conveyed a rather unfair insinuation
against the majority of his colleagues.
Sir Marmaduke, on the contrary, and
his followers, had so far been singularly
unfortunate. Mr. Pipes had the mischance
to get that bane of trainers, influenza,
into his stable, with the usual result
his charges all the first part of the
season were rarely quite themselves, while
in some of the worst cases it had been
found hopeless to get them ready, and
more than one rich stake, which had been
apparently at Sir Marmaduke's mercy,
had to be abandoned, because his representative
was hors de combat. Notable
the case this with the flying Atlanta,
who had proved herself about the best
Iwo-year-old in training last season. She
was very heavily engaged, and apparently

her taking the One Thousand Guineas
and Oaks was a mere question of health.
She had been smitten so badly with this
curse of racing stables that it was questionable
whether she would ever recover
her form during the present campaign,
and what made the matter still worse
was the well-known fact that when fillies,
in racing parlance, lose their form at
three years old, they are apt to never
recover it.

Even in this Jim Forrest's star was
to a certain extent in the ascendant, for
Sir Marmaduke, upon hearing from Mr.
Pipes what Forrest had said when asked
to handle some of his horses in the winter,
chose to take umbrage at Jim's refusal,
and consequently never offered him a
mount, whereby Jim was probably spared
discomfiture on more than one occasion,
as the baronet's string apparently couldn't
win even a selling race.

You may be sure Jim's career was

closely watched in St. Leonard's Place.
The widow took to studying the sporting-news
again as she had been used to at the
zenith of her husband's turf career, but
with infinitely less trepidation than had
come to her in latter days. She did not
associate, poor soul, any danger with the
race-course, except that of gambling, and
she was assured that Gerald did not do
that ; nor did he. He bet at times, as
everybody connected with the turf does,
but he could not be called a regular
speculator. Still, he was putting together
a very nice little nest-egg, and towards
this Lord Whitby, who was as openhanded
as he was hot-tempered, not a
little contributed. He was now most
thoroughly established in the very front
rank of his profession, in receipt of retaining
salaries from both Lord Whitby
and another well-known magnate of the
sporting world. Sir Marmaduke more
than once regretted his severance with

Jim Forrest; "not but what," he would
say ruefully to his great ally, Captain
Farrington, "it don't much matter who's
up on such a lot of half-trained devils as
all ours are this season." There was one
exception, and that was the Dancing
Master ; the influenza had affected him
but slightly, and merely necessitated a
slight stoppage in his work during that
bitter spring time. Mr. Pipes, like Bill
Greyson, had conceived an immense
opinion of the horse's capabilities ; but he
also recognised that the horse equally had
an opinion about when it was necessary
to exert himself, and that unfortunately
seldom coincided with that of his owner
and trainer. Mr. Pipes was used to deal
with all sorts of equine temper ; but he
candidly confessed that " the Dancer "
was a puzzler.

He tried— as all trainers do nowadays
who know their business — coaxing,
patience, and the tenderest handling;

VOL. III. E

but " the Dancer" was not to be cajoled
with lumps of sugar, either practically or
metaphorically. That wilful quadruped
had sucked in the idea apparently with
his mother's milk — she was a jaundiced-tempered
matron — that he was to have
his own way in this weary world, and
could not be got to comprehend that
horses are born to servitude. No ; they
could make nothing of him in the Panton
Lodge stable. When he was tried just
before the Claret Stakes, at the Craven
Meeting, he galloped like a lion, and in
the argot of the racecourse made his
antagonists lie down; but in the actual
race, three days afterwards, he never
showed at all, and Blackton once more
energetically pronounced him the greatest
coward in training.

It's not that, Sir Marmaduke," replied
Mr. Pipes in answer to Blackton's remark
just after the race, " the beggar can stay,
and is game enough when he means

winning, but, damme, I can't help thinking
he stands in with the bookmakers, and
runs for them instead of for us whenever
he's backed."

u I don't quite know what to think,
Pipes. He failed at Epsom, the same at
Doncaster, and now again, over the
Ditch In' for the Clarets. He wins over
the Rowley Mile, the only time he ever
wins. It looks to me as if he couldn't get
further, and that he's been run ever since
out of his distance."

"It's not that, Sir Marmaduke," replied
the trainer, u it's his beastly temper."

It's his want of heart," said Blackton,
as he turned and walked sulkily away.

Get him ready for the Hunt Cup at
Ascot," said the baronet, curtly. " If
he gets in well— and he must — I'll stand
him a raker for that, and if he fails us
then Bill Grey son may have him back
again at once. Better he paid for his corn
than me."

LIBRARY

jNivERsnv 'W nun lis

In writing the wonderfully romantic
narrative of Gerald Rockingham's unprecedented
turf career, it is difficult to keep
clear of the mistake of becoming a mere
volume of the Racing Calendar. Continuous
repetition of sporting stories of
the same description is apt to wax tedious;
indeed, in these times it is so easy to bear
a little too heavily upon any subject, and,
writing as I do within half a mile of
Westminster, I may surely add, talk too
much on any subject. Parliament Street
is thick with verbiage, national business is
at a standstill, while the six hundred and
fifty windbags that represent the nation
are still busily engaged in emulous
cackle.

For the above reason it is necessary to
pass somewhat rapidly over the racing
of this year, and simply record the fact
that the Dancing Master was allotted a
weight in the Hunt Cup which, conjoined
with the fact that the horse was extremely

well, made the Panton Lodge people regard
his chance as an immense one,
should he only take it into his head to
run kindly. Sir Marmaduke adhered to
his before-expressed intention, and backed
the horse to win him an enormous stake,
which he was easily enabled to do, from
the known uncertainty of the animal's
temper, at a very liberal price. Once
more did the erratic Dancing Master betray
the confidence of his new owner.
Indulging in quite uncalled-for gambols
at the post, he got a very indifferent start
when the flag eventually fell, but, going
like a bolt from a catapult when he did
go, his tremendous speed enabled him to
catch his horses as the hill was topped,
and the gay-coloured troop came within
view of the stand. Anxious to take a
good place, Blackton immediately afterwards
hustled him a little, and just as
Farrington exclaimed, " he means it at
last, Marm," the uncertain brute determined

not to be put out of his way by
any one, shut up, and declined to make
another effort.

This last exhibition of the grey's temper
was enough for the baronet ; he came
to the conclusion that Blackton was right,
and that the colt was a rank coward,
and ordered his trainer to send him back
to Riddleton forthwith. To Mr. Pipes's
suggestion that they had better keep the
colt a little longer, Sir Marmaduke replied
curtly,

u Certainly not ; I can't afford to give
him another chance. He's cost me about
twenty thousand already, first and last,
and would be a perpetual temptation if I
kept him on the premises. Send him
back to Greyson next week. He may bethe
best colt in the kingdom, but he'd
break the Bank of England."

CHAPTER IV.

GERALD VISITS YORK.

If his own people had not seen Gerald,
neither had his sweetheart. Since that
hurried visit just after Egham Meeting he
had not set foot in Yorkshire ; he had intended
then to have returned in a week
and take part in the various contests on
the Knavesmire, but, as we have seen,
false pride had caused him not to keep
that engagement. Dollie hardly knew
what to think of things. It was true that
Gerald wrote lovingly and frequently,
and spoke in the most sanguine way of
the future ; but the girl did think that if
he cared about her as much as he pretended,

he would have found time during
all those winter months to run up and see
her. She knew very well that he had
openly avowed his name, and that all the
world were now aware who Jim Forrest
really was, and she had been not a little
amused at the way her father and mother
had taken the information.

Dal it all ! " exclaimed Bill Greyson
when he heard it; (i to think that I've had
a son of the squire's in my stable. I'm
main sorry to think it. And that he
should win the Two Thousand for Riddleton
a few months after Riddleton had
broke his father. It's like a dream. We
ought all to be ashamed of ourselves that
we didn't tell the squire about Phaeton."

As for Mrs. Greyson, she completely
changed her note, declared that she had
always noticed something very superior
about Forrest's manner ; rallied Dollie
about her flirtation ; and would simper
and say, " I daresay the young squire will

give us a look in before long. We know
of an attraction at Riddleton that's likely
to bring him north, don't we, Dollie ? ■'

Don't put such rubbish into a girl's
head' the trainer would roughly interpose
on such occasions. u He may
have taken up race-riding for a season,
but men of Gerald Rockingham's blood
don't mate with such as us."

And then Dollie would toss her head
disdainfully as woman does when it is
suggested the victim may break the toils ;
they never believe it, and draw the gyves
tighter and tighter, despite the warning
of worldly-wise sisters, until one day
the fetters lie riven, and the captive is
gone, never to be re-captured.

But as the months rolled by, and
Gerald never appeared either at York or
Riddleton, Dollie began to feel not a
little uncomfortable. If this had been
mere flirtation, incense gratifying to her

girlish vanity, it would have been cause
of doubt and dismay that her lover could
stay away so long from her ; but it was
much more than that. Dollie knew, alas !
that she had given her whole heart to
Gerald Rockingham, and, if he deemed that
a bauble not worth keeping, G od help her !
for she would need it sorely. Could her
father be right ? Could Miss Rockingham
be right? Was Gerald only amusing
himself, as she had read and heard young
men were wont to with women, more
especially when they did not belong to
their own station in life ? and then Dollie
would throw herself into the arm-chair
near her casement, and, as she gazed
across the broad undulating grassy expanse,
the tears would well up into her
eyes, and she would wonder whether the
world really was so hollow and heartless
as all that came to.

That "the world is hollow and their

doll stuffed with sawdust " is a phrase that
most young women go through in their
early days.

Gerald had conceived a great idea, and
was working up to it with all the stead}?-
persistency that misfortune had called
forth in his character. He had heard
from Writson that all chance of disposing
of Cranley in the aggregate seemed hopeless,
and that he should be compelled to
lot it and dispose of it piecemeal. Now
Gerald, thanks to the liberal presents he
had received, in the first instance from
Sir Marmaduke and his followers, and
latterly from Lord Whitby, had no less
than between two and three thousand
pounds at his banker's. He worked hard
and lived sparingly, and, except the
money he sent to assist the menage at St.
Leonard's Place, spent little of his earnings.
He was now making a very good
income, and the idea had come to him to
embark the bulk of his savings in some

turf speculation; to go for one great coup,
and, should that come off, with the proceeds
to purchase Cranley; not the manor,
of course, but simply the house and chase.
The difficulty was, what should the
plotted coup consist of ? He had ridden
several colts of Lord Whitby's this year,
whose winning might be regarded as
fairly certain ; but then the prices laid
against these at starting had been so
short, that it required to risk much more
than he could afford to win the stake he
wanted.

Gerald had for months been puzzling as
to how the solution of his puzzle could become
by, but see it he couldn't, and
meanwhile he heard from Writson that
the handbills would be out early in
August, and the sale take place about the
beginning of September. Gerald reflected
sadly that there remained but a
very short time to plan and execute the
stroke he meditated. Stourbridge and

the Newmarket July Meetings were gone
and past, and though Goodwood loomed
before him he could see nothing in the
programme that seemed suitable to his
purpose. Suddenly it struck Jim that he
would take a few days' holiday, run up to
York, and see his mother and sister and
Jolliest

was with a big jump of the heart
that Dollie received the letter in which
Gerald announced his intention of coming
northwards. Ah, this would clear up all
doubts ! Let her but see Gerald, and she
would speedily be assured as to whether
he loved her still; but she did not want to
see him at Riddleton, and that was where
she was when she received his letter. She
looked forward to the rather slavish adulation
that she felt sure her mother would
accord " Mr. Rockingham '' with as much
dismay as the blunt mistrust of her father.
So Dollie made up her mind that she
must abandon the sweet summer moorland

breezes for the hot, dusty city of York,
and once more take up her abode with
Uncle Thomas in Coney Street.

Mrs. Grey son was not disposed to
wrangle with her daughter according to
her wont. Had not that young woman
captured what, in the good lady's estimation,
was a stag royal, and, although
she knew enough of the science of deer-stalking
to comprehend that —

Let the stricken deer go weep
did not at all mean that he was
(i gathered," that these sorely wounded
ones often struggled on to the next forest
and then took to themselves another mate,
yet Mrs. Greyson, with half-closed eyes,
kept on purring to herself over Dollie's
approaching marriage with the heir of
Cranley Chase. It mattered nothing that
she knew, as all Yorkshire knew, that
Cranley Chase was for sale, and Gerald a
ruined a man riding races for a living.
In her extreme satisfaction at her daughter

marrying a man of gentle blood she
ignored the sad story of the past few
years, and chose to regard Gerald as
holding the position his father had occupied
when she first knew him.

Bill Greyson, on the contrary, took a
very different view of his daughter's engagement.
He admired Jim Forrest
much; he recognised his great qualities
as a horseman, and had heard from many
of his Newmarket compatriots how steady
he was in his life, and how steadfast in
the pursuit of his new profession. As a
brilliant jockey and a straightening young
fellow the old trainer would have held
Jim Forrest a most eligible suitor for his
daughter's hand, but, when it turned out
that Jim Forrest was Gerald Rockingham,
it was different. A wild, hot-blooded lot
the Rockinghams ! — ever reckless in their
passions as regarded wine, women, or
play : such was their reputation on the
country side ; and the late Squire had

shown himself impregnated with the old
Adam in his youth to the full as much as
his ancestors. Greyson could hardly
believe that, ruined or not ruined, Gerald
Rockingham could mean to act fairly by
his daughter. To a man of his birth the
most obvious solution of his difficulties
was a wealthy marriage. Groping dimly
in the dark, the trainer had sense in his
reasoning. In the state of transition in
which we are all now living the money-rubbers,
in their anxiety to turn butterflies,
are only too keen to barter wealth
for position, though how long we shall be
before diamonds, a brown-fronted stonehouse,
a silver-gilt dinner-service, and a
pair of thousand-guinea carriage horses,
constitute the summum bonum of existence,
after the manner of our New York
cousins, is a matter of conjecture. Birth
and family are likely to count for much,
while the dollar will be all-powerful in the
days that lie before us.

Greyson honestly wanted to see no
more of Jim Forrest save on a racecourse.
He liked him in every respect except as a
suitor for his daughter, though he still felt
a little uncomfortable that Alister Rockingham's
son should ever have been a
stable-boy of his. A life past in the
chicanery of the turf, and Bill Greyson
(to put it mildly) had been at all events
mixed up with some ugly turf stories
in his time, had not altogether blunted the
veteran's ideas of right. Although he had
honestly done him a good turn, he still
harped upon the fact that the son of his
old freehanded employer, Alister Rockingham,
should have been employed by
him in a menial capacity. On the other
hand, the thing he loved best on earth
was Dollie, and his face hardened at the
bare idea that a man should meditate
wrong to her. It would be far safer, he
thought, that the two should see no more

VOL. III. p

of each other for the present. " As for
the wife," he muttered to himself, u she's
good in the dairy, and keeps a rare hand
on 'em in the house, but she's a feather-parted
woman, and no judge whatever of
weights when it comes to match-making."
Dollie had, perhaps, exercised a wise
discretion in not meeting her lover at
Middleton. The judicious pilot does
not take his frail bark between Scylla
and Charybdis unless necessity compels ;
those dangers are better avoided if possible,
and the girl felt that neither of
her parents was likely to be quite
what she wished to Gerald at present.
Besides she wanted to have him
thoroughly to herself, and then she wondered
whether she should see Miss Rockingham
again, and whether Gerald meant
to present her to his mother. She knew
that he had announced his engagement to
herself, but she had not come across Ellen

since, and she was very anxious to meet
that young lady under these altered circumstances.


If Dollie really entertained any doubts
of her lover's constancy they were dispelled
at once on Gerald's arrival at the
drawing-room in Coney Street.

Oh, Gerald!" she exclaimed, as she
at length released herself from his passionate
embrace, " what a time it is since
I have seen you! Do you know how long
it is, sir?"

Yes, it is very nearly a year since I
was last in York."

And, if you are as fond of me as you
pretend to be, how could you be so many
months without coming near me ? "

Dangling at her apron-strings is not
always the readiest way to win the girl
you love. When there's man's work to
be done, 'tis no time for such sweet fooleries.
I only did your own bidding,
Dollie, and now I am more successful

F 2

than ever we hoped in the trade of
your naming, surely you'd not have me
give up 'silk and turn aside when I'm
close to the top of the ladder."

"Of course not, Gerald. You know I
wouldn't wish it for a moment, but you
must expect a girl to pout a little at her
lover's absence, even if she knows he is
working hard for her sake. I don't suppose
Rachel was very well satisfied with
her father's arrangement, and, I have no
doubt, felt quite as bad as Jacob did about
it, when she found that she had, after all
that waiting, to give way to her elder
sister."

"Ah, well," said Gerald, laughing,
"my servitude is not going to extend
quite so long as that. I shall demand
you of your parents before many months
I trust. I have worked hard — aye, very
hard ! — and done better than I could have
ever dreamt, and the end of it all is, darling,
I have conceived a wilder dream

than ever. I told you Cranley was in the
market, and I am haunted with the idea
of saving the house and park. Writson
told me, and very sensibly, too, when last
here, that it would be madness — that it
would involve genteel pauperism — that
most painful of all stages of poverty.
But," continued the lad, springing to his
feet, and pacing the room in his excitement,
" at that time I had very little
money at the bank. I was by no means
sure of making a good income by my
profession. Now it is different. I am
prepared to risk my small capital to effect
a grand coup, and, should that be successful,
I could save Cranley ; while with the
income I now make we could all live
there if we were content to do so quietly,
though comfortably."

u Oh, Gerald ! that would be glorious !
But what is to be the great stake that weare
to play for ? "

Ah ! that's just where it is, Follies

don't know. I can't think of a coup to
go for with what I call any reasonable
chance of success."

"Stop, Gerald. Remember the horse
that gave you your first great start — the
horse that made you - the Dancing Master.
Is'nt there something to be done
with him ? "

There might be," said Gerald, meditatively
; "but, you see, I never ride for
Sir Marmaduke, now."

But the horse is at Riddleton. They
sent him back from Newmarket directly
after Ascot. Sir Marmaduke, it seems,
lost a lot of money over him in the Hunt
Cup, and vowed he wasn't worth his keep.
Father's got him back again."

sl Well, it is possible there's a good race
in him yet, if one could only catch him
in the humour ; but — even then I don't
know when it's to be ; and, Dollie, the
time is so short. The Chase is to be sold
in September."

It's no use talking it over now," said
the girl ; " still, I've a presentiment that
c the Dancer ' is our guardian angel, and
he will take care of us yet. He doesn't
mean to exert himself till you want him,
Gerald ; but don't forget he's at Riddleton,
well, and — wicked old thing — anxious
for a job. How long are we to keep you
with us ? "

"A couple of days or so is all I can
spare. I have to see Writson, and I must
call in St. Leonard's Place ; but I have no
end of engagements, and must get back
south towards the end of the week."

cC I was afraid it must be so. No,
Gerald ; I'm not repining, and I know
that it is all for your good that you should
be so fully occupied ; but a young woman
likes to keep a sweetheart she only sees
once a year a little longer with her, if
possible."

Nonsense, Dollie ; don't be unreasonable,"

exclaimed the young" man, a little
impatiently.

"I am not," replied the girl, softly.
(i I know it can't be ; but I surely may
regret that it is so."

Gerald's sole reply was of that description
which is best left to the imagination.
We can all recall what would have seemed
appropriate under the circumstances, and
human nature varies little with regard to
these things.

And now, Dollie,' 5 said young Rockingham,
as the girl emerged from one of
those unaccountable, but everyday, disappearances,
which so troubled Bella
Wilder; "it's time I said good-bye. I've
got to see Writson, and prepare my
mother and sister to be introduced to
you."

Really, Gerald ! Is Mrs. Rockingham
anything like your sister ? I shall feel so
strange at meeting her."

It would be much the same, whoever

I brought her, I think. She would never
consider anyone quite good enough for
her scapegrace son."

"I won't have you call yourself names''
retorted Dollie, with a stamp of her pretty
foot. cc You know you are nothing of the
kind. You never got into any row yet ;
and since — forgive me, Gerald, if I seem
to speak hardly — you were left a beggar,
you've honestly earned your own bread.
Scapegrace, forsooth ! I don't see much
of that about you."

%i Perhaps not," said Gerald, laughing,
as he took up his hat ; u but 1 must be off
now; see Writson, and call in St. Leonard's
Place. For the present, sweet,
adieu."

God bless and keep thee, dearest,"
rejoined Dollie, as she kissed him; and
then Gerald went out into the soft summer
air, and wended his way towards
Mr. Writson's.

CHAPTER V.

A CALL ON ST. LEONARD'S PLACE.

Gerald's interview with Writson, although
only what he expected, was nevertheless
saddening. He had known for
months that Cranley must go, but it was
nevertheless a wrench to think that it was
on the very verge now of passing away
from the family. His principal object
was to delay the sale, but he could not
quite muster up courage to confide to the
kind-hearted old lawyer the visionary
hope he indulged in. It was all very well
to tell his warm-hearted sanguine fiancee
that he contemplated some daring turf
speculation that would enable him to win

money enough to redeem the Chase, but
he felt it was a different thing to put this
very undigested scheme before a hardheaded
practical man. The scheme was
as yet utterly immature, and to get a
business man to take into serious consideration
that you meditate embarking
in some gambling speculation to raise
money is a thing not to be thought of.
Mr. Writson, conscious that he had already
delayed the sale to the utmost extent of
his ability, not from the remotest idea of
averting the blow, but simply from the
hope that a purchaser might yet be found
to take the estate in the lump, naturally
failed to fathom Gerald's reason for further
deferring it. There was no hope of
assistance or rescue from any quarter.
The lawyer felt like a surgeon who has
conclusively made up his mind that an
operation is imperative, and that it is
childish on the part of the patient to wish
to put it off any longer.

1 am sorry to say, Mr. Rockingham,
that the creditors are not to be stayed
further. I've exhausted the law's delay,
and excuse me saying further postponement,
even if possible, is unadvisable.
Nobody can sympathise more sincerely
with you under the circumstances than I
do, but you must brace yourself up, sir,
to meet the inevitable. A curious thing
is that Pearson, I find, has been making
inquiries about the Chase."

"Why, what can he want with it?"
exclaimed Gerald. " After squeezing the
orange all these years in conjunction with
my precious cousin, he can't hanker after
the rind."

No, no, my dear sir," replied Writson,
not a little astonished at Gerald's passionate
outbreak. " It's not likely he wants
it for himself, but he may have a commission
to buy it. I shall very likely get
at who it's for before the sale."

"By the way, has Mr. Elliston made

any further proposition with regard to
those acceptances of his ? "

No ; and, until we put the screw on
him from a social point of view, I suspect
it's very unlikely he will. He, through
Pearson, as I wrote you word, offered a
thousand pounds, but we ought to get
double that out of him. The whole sum
it's useless to expect. Now I see by the
papers that you ride a great deal for Lord
Whitby. On what sort of footing do you
stand with him ? "

u I'm a great favourite of his. I have
been lucky with his horses, and, though he
treats me always as if I stood on the same
platform as himself, I never forget that at
present I am his jockey, and it has done
me no harm with him. He is, as you
perhaps know, proud and passionate, but
he was an old friend of my father's, and
stretched out his hand to me on that
account."

It strikes me that he might be just

the man to put pressure on Mr. Elliston.
If Lord Whitby chose to take up your
case he is big enough to crush such as
Mr. Elliston, and you owe it to Mrs.
and Miss Eockingham to make him
pay as much of his debt to your father as
possible."

"I'll do it, Writson. I'll take the
earliest opportunity of speaking to Lord
Whitby on the subject. His dictum on
all matters of honour is law in the racing
world. Nobody ever ventures to question
his decision."

If that's so, I think it probable Mr.
Elliston will come to terms sooner than
have so awkward a story in circulation
concerning him."

i( We'll try it, at all events," said
Gerald, rising. " There'll be little enough
left for my mother and sister when all is
done. There's nothing to warrant my
not recovering that two thousand pounds,
if I can. Cuthbert Elliston will be really

our debtor for four thousand odd even
then."

Quite so," replied Mr. Writson. " Do
you make any stay in York ? "

No. I must get back tomorrow or
the next day at furthest. Good-bye."

The lawyer shook his head thoughtfully
as Gerald left the room. ''Ah!" he
muttered, "it's very sad. A fine young
fellow, and the best blood in Yorkshire,
riding races for a living, and his heritage
coming to the hammer in September."

Gerald's appearance in St. Leonard's
Place was welcomed with a low cry of
pleasure from Mrs. Rockingham; indeed.,
both ladies were unfeignedly glad to see
him. They had quite got over their first
dismay upon learning the career he had
embraced, and discovered that the world
generally saw nothing at all disgraceful
in it. Then, was he not an only son and
brother whom they had not seen for
nearly a twelvemonth ? It was small

wonder they were disposed to make much
of him.

My dear boy, it's quite a treat to have
you with us again'* exclaimed Mrs. Rockingham.
"Sit down and tell me who
first put this extraordinary freak into your
head. We are too thoroughly Yorkshire
not to feel somewhat proud of your horsemanship.
How on earth came you to
think of it ? "

"It was Dollie Greyson's idea; and
without her help and encouragement 1
should never have carried it out. But,
mother, dearest, to go back to first
causes, Cuthbert Elliston made me take
to the saddle. Surely you remember the
cruel taunt he flung at me that day at
Cranley when we learnt we were ruined.
He recommended me to l turn gamekeeper
or pad-groom.' I had to do something,
and, talking the matter over with Dollie,
told her of Cuthbert's bitter gibe, and,
her woman's wit suggested 'turn jockey.'

Curiously enough, the first race I won was
on his horse. I won, and he had me
turned out of the stable."

What disgraceful ingratitude ! " exclaimed
Ellen. " I wonder all the racing
world didn't cry shame upon him."

11 Never expect gratitude from Cuthbert,"
rejoined Gerald, with a bitter
smile. " Our poor father lent him thousands
which he never repaid, except with
undying hatred for all of us."

I always did think he was your poor
father's undoing." murmured Mrs. Rockingham,
sadly.

u He hasn't quite settled with me yet,"
rejoined Gerald. " I fancy he's repented
already of his sneering advice. My
riding cost him a good deal at Goodwood
last year."

"And you like the life, Gerald ?— it
interests you ? " inquired Mrs. Rockingham.


"Yes, it's a healthy life, if hard; and

VOL. III. G

besides, I've done with the rough part of
it. I had my turn of that in my novitiate
at Riddleton. You know I was always
fond of horses, and there's nothing more
exciting than the final struggle for a big
race, when you know that success depends
principally upon your own nerve and
judgment ; that the calling on your horse
for his supreme effort at the right moment
means victory, while a couple of seconds
too soon or too late is to lose the race."

11 But your associates, Gerald ; they
must be so dreadful," said his sister.

Some of them, of course, are pretty
rough, but it's not necessary to see much
of them, while others are very good
fellows. They may not have quite the
polish of society, but don't think they're
uneducated. Many of the trainers, for
instance, interest themselves in many
things quite outside their profession."

Miss Rockingham had not quite got an
answer to her insidious question. Since

her brother had announced his firm intention
of marrying Dollie Greyson, Ellen
had become curious concerning Gerald's
feminine acquaintance. Up to that time
she had never given a passing thought
to his marrying, but when a man, even
though young, takes the idea of wanting
a wife into his head, his sisters may
naturally regard a sister-in-law as imminent.
Ellen had hoped her question
would draw forth some allusion to Dollie.
She wanted much to hear whether Gerald
had seen her constantly all these months.
She knew his letters were always dated
from the South, and that Dollie's home
was in Yorkshire, but he might have been
in Yorkshire many times, though he had
never visited St. Leonard's Place, and
whether he was as " infatuated about that
chit of a trainer's daughter as ever " was
a thing Miss Rockingham much desired
to know.

But'' she said, returning to the

g2

charge after a slight pause, " you used to
be fond of ladies' society ; surely you
must miss that dreadfully in this life you
have chosen? "

A good many young fellows have todo
without that at the outset of their
career, and, though I fancy I am not quite
the social pariah you picture me, still, I
haven't time or inclination for that sort of
thing. Remember, I have always this
end before my eyes, I have adopted this
profession as the pleasantness and easiest
way in which I can make sufficient money
to take my true position in the world, and
further that I have probably but a short
time to do it in. I'm not a light-weight
now, and it's only by constant exercise
and rigid abstinence that I keep about
eight stone. It's quite likely that in a
few years I shall get too heavy to ride.
Besides," concluded Gerald, with a smile,
"you forget my book's made."

Surely, surely, you will never commit

such madness," said Ellen. "You are
avowedly making money in an inferior
position with which to resume your proper
station as soon as possible. To marry
Miss Grey son is to settle down in that
class for life. Speak to him, mother —
urge him, for all our sakes, to pause before
he takes such an irrevocable step as that
would be ! "

Indeed, my dear," said Mrs. Rockingham,
" do think of what your sister says.
It was a great trouble to us at first when
we found out what you were doing, and
it was only when Mr. Thorndyke explained
to us that you were making a deal
of money, and people in these times didn't
care how that was done, providing it was
only honestly, that we got reconciled toit,
and began to understand what you
have just told us. But Gerald, dearest,
to marry amongst these people is to live
and die amongst them."

"You can't understand," interposed

Gerald, roughly, " what Dollie's been tome.
You can't suppose I'm going to
throw over the girl I'm sincerely attached
to, and to whose advice and assistance I
owe my present position, because she's not
in the Stud Book?"

Your new associates begin to rather
influence your conversation," rejoined
Ellen, haughtily.

Don't talk rubbish," said Gerald,
sharply. " You might have heard my
last remark in the smoking-room at Cranley,
or in the precincts of any Club in
London. I'm not going to quarrel, but
what can you know in reality of the
world ? Some knowledge of slang is and
always was part of a gentleman's education.
Why, when the late Lord Lytton
wrote 6 Pelham ' it was brought against
him that 'his knowledge of flash was
evidently purely superficial.' Flash, my
sister, is merely recondite slang or thieves'
argot."

"I can only say," returned Ellen, by
no means mollified at the sharpness with
which her brother was asserting his position
as head of the family, " there is a
savour of the race-course about your conversation
which I, at all events, am not
accustomed to."

Gerald bit his lip as the blood rushed
into his face, and for a moment meditated
an angry retort, but his new profession
had schooled him severely in the disadvantage
there is in loss of temper. He
had not battled with equine infirmity of
that nature without discovering the virtues
of patience and " a calm sough." After
a little he replied quietly,

Don't be unkind, Nell. I started,
remember, smashed, broken stock, lock,
and barrel, as a Rockingham ; that maybe
slang, but you understand it. Good !
I have struck out my own line, and made
a reputation under another name ; that
the world have discovered Jim Forrest

and Gerald Rockingham to be one is no
fault of mine. If you and mother feel so
ashamed of me I'll pursue my career
under the name of my adoption, but don't
suppose, under any circumstances, that I
shall not marry Dollie Grey son ; because
I shall, hap what may''

Miss Rockingham was not a little staggered
at her brother's firmness. She had
recognised for some time the change that
had come over him, but she had thought
the united entreaties of his mother and
herself would have at least made him
waver in his determination to marry
Dollie Greyson. But it was evident he
was shaken not one iota on this point.
They had no choice between whether they
would abandon Gerald or receive his wife,
and as head of the family he had surely
some right to dictate. Ellen was a little
puzzled how to reply ; her pride forbade
her to give in to this brother younger
than herself, while her common sense told

her he had the right to select the woman
he would marry, and meant to exercise it.

"Iliad thought yon would have paid
some attention to my wishes in such respect,
Gerald," said Mrs. Rockingham,
feebly.

My dearest mother, I hope I shall
always listen to your wishes about anything,
but this is a thing a man must
decide for himself."

Despite this being a question of serious
disquiet to them, the two ladies could not
refrain from exchanging a slight smile at
hearing this dark faced stripling, who had
so suddenly arrogated to himself man's
estate, pronounce his opinion in so decided
a fashion.

As I said before," continued Gerald,
not only do I love her very dearly, but
I owe my present position entirely to her
clear practical common sense. You may
think that it is very easy for a Rockingham
to get his living in this world, I can

only say that, when it became necessary I
should do it j I found Rockingham considerably
at a discount, and that except in
my present profession I should be much
puzzled how to earn thirty shillings a
week''

That is not exactly the question,
Gerald. You have adopted this profession,
and everybody knows it. It is much
too late to say anything more about that,
but we do urge you to pause before you
take such an irrevocable step as getting
married. Remember, you can abandon
a profession, but not a wife."

I am not likely to change my determination,"
replied Gerald, quietly; " such
training as I have gone through lately has
strengthened my will as well as my muscles.
An irresolute jockey would soon
lose his riding. But if it will be any
satisfaction to you to know that I don't
mean marrying immediately you may
have it. We can both afford to wait, and

for the present I am bound to work hard
at my profession ; as I told you at my age
it's impossible to say how long I may be
able to continue it. The probability is I
shall get too heavy in a few years.
Mother, when may I bring my fiancee
to see you ? "

But, ere Mrs. Eockingham could answer,
the door opened, and the servant announced
" Mr. Thorndyke."

It was true that Ellen, after what had
passed between them, had no cause to think
that Mr. Thorndyke was in the least likely
to intrude his advice upon Gerald ; but
she was decidedly non-passed at the line
John Thorndyke took up when, the first
greetings over, she introduced him to her
brother.

(C How do you do, Mr. Rockingham ? "
said the genial rector. " I am delighted
to make your acquaintance. We are all
proud of you in Yorkshire, and so are
your class all through England. It

always does one good to see the gentleman
hold his own with the professional.
It shows there's grit left in us still."

u Thank you very much for your good
opinion," replied Gerald, laughing; " but
remember, I don't claim to be ' a gentleman
I ride purely as a professional."

I know," replied Thorndyke ; " but a
gentleman you are, and I feel quite sure
will never forfeit that position. You are
paid, and so indirectly are most gentlemen
riders. The one difference is, they all
take seven pounds' allowance as such,
while you don't."

Gerald cast a triumphant look across at
his sister ; the name of John Thorndyke
had cropped up not a little in that young
lady's letters of late. Judging from past
experience, Gerald had no doubt that
what he had begun irreverently to term
il Ellen's new pet parson " was of that
extreme type that are merciless in their
denunciations of the turf and all connected

with it. Mr. Thorndyke's speech was a
pleasant surprise to him. As he rose to
go, he said simply : —

I'm glad to have met you, Mr. Thorn-dyke,
and I hope to see you again before
long. You must excuse my running
away now ; I have lots to do, and very
little time to do it in. Good-bye, Ellen;
good-bye, mother dearest;" and, as he
kissed her, Gerald whispered into her ear,
I shall bring Dollie to see you tomorrow
morning."

CHAPTER VI.

WILL YOU BE MY WIFE ? "

I congratulate you on your son, Mrs.
Rockingham," said Mr. Thorndyke, as
the door closed upon Gerald. " A fine,
manly young fellow; and he has caught
no taint of the profession he has embraced."


I beg your pardon," interposed Ellen,
a wee bit sharply. " His conversation
was tolerably interlarded with horsey expressions
before you came in. You only
saw him for a minute or two, remember''

What does that matter," rejoined the
Rector. " A large proportion of the
young gentlemen of the present day talk

horse, and usually in exact inversion to
their knowledge of the subject. He would
probably have done that had he remained
at Cambridge."

It was too provoking. John Thorn-dyke
seemed to be holding a brief for
Gerald ; but, ere Ellen could reply, Mrs.
Rockingham cut into the conversation.

Ah ! you do not know the worst," she
said; "he contemplates marrying amongst
these people."

He is too young to think of that ; not
but what if he marries the right woman it
very often steadies a young fellow, and is
the making of him ; but, when there is
such difference of class, it's a doubtful
experiment. A half educated woman is
apt to jar upon a refined man after the
first. She is perpetually offending him
unwittingly."

I knew, Mr. Thorndyke, you would
never approve of such a mesalliance"
exclaimed Ellen, triumphantly.

Forgive me; I don't altogether say-that.
I only say it's a dangerous experiment.
It depends so much upon what the
girl is like.' ,

The two ladies exchanged glances,
which said, " Shall we tell him ? " and
then Mrs. Rockingham rose, and, saying
to her daughter, " You had better tell Mr.
Thorndyke, and then perhaps he wouldn't
mind saying to Gerald what he has just
said to us. You will excuse me, as I have
one or two little things to attend to."

u Let us hope it is not so bad as you
think it, Mrs. Rockingham," said the
Rector, as he opened the door for her.
Many girls in these days are educated
what would have been thought far above
their position forty years ago."

You can't make a lady out of a
trainer's daughter," retorted Mrs. Rockingham
with no little asperity, as she
swept from the apartment.

John Thorndyke bowed silently, and

then, taking a chair, waited until it should
please Ellen to be communicative.

This is very sad, very distressing for
us, is it not ? " she said at length.

Your brother is young, and as long ashe
is not actually married there is always
considerable likelihood that he will change
his mind," replied the rector, vaguely.

I am afraid not. You don't know my
brother — he is very obstinate when he has
taken a thing into his head."

Very resolute in purpose is, I fancy,
more the term. Weak characters are
obstinate. Your brother's career so far
shows anything but weakness of character."


u Call it what you will," exclaimed
Ellen, impatiently, " he is very fixed in
his determination to marry this Dollie
Greyson."

John Thorndyke was almost betrayed
into a long whistle. " How very dull of

VOL. III. H

me," he thought, " not to have guessed
the riddle at once''

Ah," he said dreamily at last, " if he
is honestly in love with Miss Greyson I
think the probability is he will be — well,
we'll say obstinate."

Why, what do you know about her?"
exclaimed Ellen in amazement.

Very little. I have only seen her two
or three times in her uncle's shop, and
she was such a pretty, graceful little girl
that she attracted my attention, and I
inquired who she was. Upon one occasion
she served me with gloves or something,
and in the few words that passed
between us I recollect being much struck
with her ladylike manner, so very superior
to what one would have expected."

Really, Mr. Thorndyke was too bad.
He had been looked to to, play in modified
manner the part of Balaam, and, far from
rebukes, he was dealing out nothing but
approbation.

Pray, have you ever seen the girl,
Miss Rockingham ? " inquired the rector,
after a short pause.

a Yes," replied Ellen ; " and I am
bound to confess she is a pretty little
thing ; but," she added, with a shrug of
her shoulders, " she is the daughter of
William Grey son, the trainer, at one time
my father's servant."

It is awkward ; but you know I don't
attach quite so much importance to these
things as you do. I have lived a good
bit in the world, for when I had charge of
a large parish in London I had most excellent
introductions, and saw a good deal
of society. The hardest workers find the
most time for play. It's all method and
arrangement. Well, Miss Rockingham,
the prosperous butter-merchant's son of
to-day goes to college, and let him only
turn out a good fellow and his father die
rich enough, mixes and marries in society."


n 2

"- You don't mean to say," cried Ellen,
u what you are advocating Gerald's marriage
with this Miss Grey son ? "

"No; certainly not. As I have said
already, he is too young for one thing,
nor do I know enough of the lady to be
able to form an opinion. I only mean
that from the little I have seen of her it is
not nearly so bad as it sounds. You have
not yet mastered the fusion of classes,
which is one of the characteristics of the

No ; and I trust I never shall. I can't
and won't believe it ! " cried Ellen, passionately.


Ah, well'' said the rector, u you
know the old proverbs None so blind,'
&c. The representatives of the people
might teach you that. Look at the present
House of Commons, what an incongruous
assembly it is ! Men of birth,
talent, and education sitting side by side
with shopkeepers, &c. ? and the result is

that one man of transcendent genius rules
it with a rod of iron, makes it, when he
chooses to take up that rod, cower like
naughty children, and yield to his whims
and caprices whatever they may be. Democracy
is always dangerously near autocracy,
and no man since the days of the
Tutors was ever so absolutely ruler of
England;'

Ellen, however she disagreed with him,
was always deeply interested when John
Thorndyke talked in this way, and of late
the girl had lost her self-reliance, and
caught herself wondering whether it was
not more likely that John Thorndyke,
with all his knowledge of life, learning,
and common sense, should be a better
judge of these things than herself. Canon
Durnford, too, although he laughingly
repudiated sharing the Rector of St.
Margaret's extreme views, indirectly confirmed
them to a certain extent.

Still, listening with interest to Mr.

Thorndyke's Radical theories was a very
different thing from welcoming Dollie
Greyson as a sister.

But the rector had stopped talking,
and after a slight pause broke into a low
laugh, as he said :

Ten thousand pardons, Miss Rockingham.
I had no business to hold forth in
that fashion, but once give a man a
chance to ride his hobby, and it's sure to
get away with him. Forgive me. Upon
my word," he continued, breaking into a
peal of laughter, ec I really thought I was
on c the stump.' "

"No, Mr. Thorndyke, I like to hear
you talk, little as I agree with you, but
we women, as a rule, are all Conservatives
to the backbone. We dread our advanced
sisters, and want neither votes nor seats
in Parliament. I for one think the ' Mrs.
Jellabys' of the world do no good in their
generation, and may well leave such work
to their male belongings."

Perhaps you are right. At all events,
Radical as I am, that is my opinion also.
But do you want my advice about your
brother's engagement ? "

Ah, Mr. Thorndyke, you will speak to
him and point out to him the mistake he
is making, won't you ? " cried Ellen.

"No, not at all. I wash my hands of
it. I simply recommend you to make no
further objection. Your brother, from
what I see of him, is little likely to be
swayed by any one in this matter. To
oppose him means to quarrel with him,
and, if anything, hurry his marriage.
Rest contented then. The girl is pretty
and ladylike. It is quite possible, when I
know her, I shall congratulate you most
heartily on your sister-inlaw''

A sudden thought flashed through
Ellen's mind. Could Mr. Thorndyke contemplate
some such marriage as Gerald.
Was he advocating his own cause while
pretending that he could not see anything

much to be distressed about in her brother's
engagement. A strange feeling of weariness,
for which she herself could hardly
account, came across her at this idea.
She had never heard of Mr. Thorndyke
being particular in his attentions to any
lady in York, but he was just the man to
be struck with any case of devotion and
self-sacrifice amongst the poorer of his
parishioners, and, if the maiden were
comely, quite capable of asking her to
share his home, with very little heed as
to what the world would say of it.

Would you make such a marriage
yourself ? " she asked, a little shyly, after
a long pause.

No," replied the Rector, bluntly.
"Then, Mr. Thorndyke," exclaimed
Ellen, ' ' how can you support my brother
in his preposterous folly ? "

I would not myself make such a marriage,
because I hope to marry a woman
of a very different station," and the quiet,

resolute tones in which the answer was
given, and the straight glance of John
Thorndyke's blue eyes into her own, told
the girl at once who that woman was.

Ellen's heart gave a great jump ; she
recognised now why she had felt uneasy
at the idea of John Thorndyke marrying,
but, though she had conceived a great,
liking and respect for the rector, she
honestly had never yet thought of him in
the light of a possible lover. But she recovered
her presence of mind in a few
seconds, and replied,

That sounds to me an additional
reason wdiy you should expostulate with
my brother."

Never mind your brother just now.
I've a question to ask you on my own
account. You've known me now over a
twelvemonth, Miss Rockingham, and I
have learnt in that time to love you very
dearly. Will you be my wife? Stop!"
he continued, seeing that she was about

to interrupt hin, " don't think that we
differ very much in our views of life or
religion. We both wish to do such good
as may lie within our power, and tolerance
should be a cardinal point in all
creeds. If you love me there will speedily
be little difference of opinion between
us."

Suddenly Ellen rose to her feet. " Mr.
Thorn dyke," she said, "you have paid
me the greatest compliment a man can
pay a woman, and for that I thank you ;
but I have too great a regard and esteem
for you to answer your question without
some little consideration. You have taken
me by surprise. I must have time to
think whether I could be the wife I wish
to be to you."

"I am quite satisfied on that point,"
rejoined Thorndyke, smiling, " only say
you will be my wife and I am quite
willing to chance your being a good
one."

Please let me go now, I want to be
alone and think," exclaimed Ellen, resisting
her lover's attempt to detain her
hand.

"It shall be as you will," he replied,
releasing her, el although I had hoped to
have won a consent from your lips this
morning, but, Ellen, you won't keep me
long in suspense ? "

No, you shall hear from me tomorrow
morning without fail. For the present,
good-bye," and the rector felt that he
was dismissed.

John Thorndyke did not feel much disturbed
that he had failed to obtain a final
answer that morning. He understood
Miss Rockingham's character too well.
She would have been prompt enough if
she had meant to say no. Most women
when they debate about accepting a man
rarely come to that conclusion. The girl
with her somewhat rigid principles had
unconsciously made it very difficult for

herself to give Thorndyke a negative
answer. She had great contempt for the
littleness of coquetry, and there would
have been a spice of that in keeping a
straight-forward, honest gentleman in
suspense, if she had much doubt about
what her decision would be. The rector
felt well satisfied with his morning's
work as he strolled homewards, and his
thoughts now drifted into some mundane
reflections about his professional prospects.
The first five years of his ministry had
been passed in the quiet country rectory
in which he had succeeded his father ; but
when the almost simultaneous death of his
mother and sister released him from
keeping the home to which they were so
wedded over their heads, he at once
applied for metropolitan preferment, and
was quickly installed in one of those large
East-end parishes that often prove the
stepping-stone to promotion. From thence
he had been transferred to York at his

own request, finding the sickly London
atmosphere, after three years, began telling
on a man so used to the fresh pure
country air and a healthy country life ashe
had been.

John Thorndyke knew that he stood
well with the chiefs of the Church, despite
his somewhat peculiar views, and that
he might count upon promotion in some
shape before long, and he thought now
would be a fitting time to jog their
memories.

CHAPTER VII.

POOR OLD DANCER.

The two ladies in St. Leonard's Place
were a little at cross purposes that night.
Mrs. Rockingham was absorbed in the
idea of receiving the bride of her son's
election tomorrow morning, while Ellen,
it need scarcely be said, with a lover of
her own to say yea or nay to, could
hardly be expected to keep a proposed
sister-in-law in mind.

It will be a terrible thing if we don't
like her," murmured Mrs. Rockingham
at length.

I wonder what Gerald will say to it,"
responded Ellen, who had just awoke to

the fact that her brother was head of the
family, and that it behoved her to acquaint
him at once with her engagement.

Yes, it will be very awkward," rejoined
Mrs. Rockingham. " He is so
masterful and hot-tempered, and yet if we
don't like her it's absurd to pretend we
do."

The termination of this last remark
recalled Ellen from her dreamland just as
she was about indignantly to protest
against Mr. Thorndyke being called hot-tempered.


Don't worry yourself about it beforehand,
mamma. We are bound to accept
this girl for Gerald's sake if he insists on
marrying her. In the meantime, remember,
I have seen Miss Greyson, and can
assure you she is quite presentable, and
rather pretty. Some people, I dare say,
would admire her a good deal."

John Thorndyke was right: if Ellen
loved him there was likely to be very

little differing between them : the suddenness
with which she had changed sides,
and adopted his view with regard to
Gerald's marriage, promised well for the
answer she should give him tomorrow.

Mrs. Rockingham was a woman who
had all her life been accustomed to lean
upon some one. During her married life
she had depended entirely upon her husband.
At his death Gerald, while he
stayed with them, had assumed the reins
of government, no little to the astonishment
of his self-reliant sister, but when he
disappeared Ellen had, of course, stepped
into his place. If Mrs. Rockingham was
much astonished at Ellen's change of
front, she nevertheless, after a long
palaver, in which the opinion of John
Thorndyke was freely quoted, perfectly
acquiesced in it, and it was decided that
Dollie should be welcomed as Gerald's
chosen bride when she called. Further,
Ellen confided to her mother that John

Thorndyke had asked her to marry him,
and that before she went to bed she meant
to write and tell him she was his when it
pleased him to take her ; all which ended,
as may be supposed, in a comfortable cry,
and then the two ladies retired to rest
thoroughly happy.

Mrs. and Miss Rockingham were not
women to do things by halves, and, when
Gerald and his fiancee arrived the next
morning in St. Leonard's Place, they welcomed
the latter with great cordiality.
Dollie had come prepared, if she could, to
make friends with Mrs. Rockingham, and
to maintain a polite neutrality with Ellen,
but the latter had completely disarmed
her by the warmth of her greeting. She
seized the earliest opportunity of drawing
Dollie a little apart, and then said :

"I want you to let bygones be bygones.
You must forgive me if, in the first instance,
I did not like the idea of having
you for a sister-in-law. You must make

allowances for the bitterness of having
lost our old home, the home of our race
for the last two hundred years and more.
You must remember that the Rocking-hams
of Cranley were wont in their pride
to think themselves mates for any in the
land, and that a woman's first idea would
be that Gerald should restore the fortunes
of his house by marriage ; and lastly, bear
in mind, no sister ever thought any one
good enough for an only brother.' '

All this said in Ellen's most winning
tones was quite enough to break down the
reserve in which Dollie had entrenched
herself.

"Of course you didn't like it," she
replied, shyly. "I always told him you
wouldn't; but then, you see, I love him."

Yes, and you must recollect, Dollie — -
I may call you so, may I not ? — that I did
not know in those days all you had done
for him. It was you put him in the way
of earning his own living — not quite the

one we should have chosen, perhaps ; but
he is such a success, no Yorkshire girl,
who belonged to him, could help being
proud of him."

u Yes, Miss Rockingham," cried the
girl, as her eyes sparkled and her cheeks
flushed with triumph, " he won the Two
Thousand on the wickedest colt we ever
had at Riddleton."

He always could ride'' replied Ellen,
and I am told that you are as good ashe
in the hunting-field ? "

u I don't mind where I follow Gerald,"
observed the girl, naively.

Miss Rockingham had some little difficulty
in suppressing a smile as the thought
flashed across her that Dollie had followed
her brother to some purpose, but she
wanted to become friends with her, and
knew that was not a subject to jest upon
at present.

You pass a good deal of your time in
York, do you not? " inquired Ellen.



I have done so. You see I am passionately
fond of music, and I also wanted
to learn a good many things that girls of
my station don't usually aspire to. I
have been at York chiefly for masters.
At Riddleton," she continued, laughing
merrily, " we only teach riding and the
management of the dairy."

Neither Gerald nor Miss Greyson made
the slightest allusion to' his novitiate. It
was not that he cared much about its
being known. It was all past and gone
now, but he thought it would pain his
mother and sister to learn that he had
passed some little time as a stable-boy.
At present they never questioned but what
he had been requested as a particular
favour to ride in the Two Thousand
Guineas in consequence of his prowess
with the York and Ainsty, and then, at
Dollie's suggestion, had adopted it as a
profession. After a short talk with Gerald,
Mrs. Rockingham, who has been agreeably

surprised at the appearance of her
future daughter-in-law, comes across to
improve her acquaintance with Dollie, and
thereby occasions a change of partners.

Well, Nell," said Gerald, as his sister
took a chair beside him, " I hope you will
get on with my wife."

"I think so," replied Ellen, u at all
events we have one point in common, to
wit, our love for your precious self. But,
Gerald, how long are you going to stay
with us ? "

I must leave this afternoon. I have
some business at Riddleton I want to
see old Greyson about, and then I must
hurry back to Newmarket. I had great
trouble to snatch these two days as it was.
I should soon lose my business if I didn't
attend to it, and you know it is the height
of the racing season."

I have something to tell you before
you go," said Miss Rockingham, speaking
slowly. " Yesterday, after you left, Mr.

Thorndyke asked me to marry him. I
asked for a few heurs to think over my
answer, and this morning I wrote to say
I would."

And now you come to me as head of
the family, Nell, to ask my consent,"
exclaimed Gerald, laughing. " My dear
sister, you have my heartiest congratulations.
Thorndyke seems, from the little
I have seen of him, a right good sort,
and, at all events, he won't be ashamed
of his brother-in-law Jim Forrest."

61 Ah, Gerald," replied Ellen, as she
yielded both her hands to his brotherly
clasp, " you must make allowances for
my old fashioned prejudices. If I have
overcome in some measure the creed in
which I was brought up, it is due to Mr.
Thorndyke's teaching."

"Ah! you've learnt at last that the
world can get on without Rockinghams.
Yes ; it's a sad thing to say in these days
of high education, but I owe my present

comfortable position and income not to
Harrow and Cambridge, but to the accident
of being of small stature, and to
the teaching of old Western, the stud-groom
at Cranley. By the way, I suppose
you know the old place is to be sold
in September ? "

"No; of course I knew it must be,
but had not heard when it was to take
place. It really makes no difference, and
yet somehow, Gerald, it will seem a
wrench. You have no idea, I suppose,
who will buy it ? "

u No ; we have failed to find a purchaser
for it. To be disposed of by
public auction is its fate now."

You will be up here for the races
this time, I suppose ? " said Ellen, inquiringly.


u Yes. I made the mistake last year of
being ashamed of my trade. I shall not
fall into it again. As luck would have it,
no harm was done ; but it is much too

risky an experiment to repeat. Besides,
my incognito is at an end."

"Yes. And Gerald, dear, I'll own to
very mixed feelings about it. I am half-proud,
half ashamed, and mamma is much
the same proud of your skill in the saddle,
but a little sore that a Rockingham
should be riding for hire."

Nonsense, Nell; one might as well
be a jockey as a cab proprietor, and two
or three of the nobility are in that line.
But it's time I was going. Good-bye ;
good-bye mother. You'll come to the
station and see me off, Dollie?"

"It's nothing near as bad as I feared''
said Mrs. Rockingham, as the door closed
behind her son and his intended. "The
girl is well enough, and would pass muster
anywhere, but the connection is awkward."


"I don't suppose we shall be expected
to see anything of Mr. William Greyson,"
replied Ellen, rather loftily. " We accept

Gerald's wife, but we are not called upon
to swallow her family. I told Gerald
I was going to be married, mamma''

"And heu

Congratulated me as heartily as a
man immersed in his own love affairs can
be expected to do' replied Ellen.

Gerald was rather silent on his way to
the station. He was turning over in his
mind two rather important suggestions
that had been made to him during his
present flying visit to York. One was
that of Mr. Writson, namely, that he
should endeavour to get Lord Whitby to
exercise some pressure on Cuthbert Ellison
with regard to those promissory
notes. That the consensus of public
opinion was more likely to bring a man
situated like Elliston to terms than legal
measures the old lawyer knew well, to
say nothing of there being no legal measures
possible in this case. Gerald knew
he could depend upon Writson's opinion,

and, though his distaste for invoking
foreign aid in his family affairs was such
that had it only concerned himself he
would have undoubtedly let the whole
matter go, still he recognised that it
behoved him to recover as much of the
money as he could for his mother and
sister. Secondly, there was Dollie's idea
that a big race might be got out of u the
Dancer," and it was to sound Bill Grey-son
on that point that he was now going
to Riddleton.

Good-bye, dearest' he said, as the
train glided into the station. " You will
see me again in a few weeks, for I mean
to gratify your curiosity and ride at York
this time."

Mind you do, and win," replied
Dollie, with a bright little nod of adieu.
u Give father and mother my love, and
don't forget to write."

As he sped on his way to Riddleton
Gerald's mind was busy revolving what

coup on earth it was possible to pull off
with the Dancing Master. He believed
implicitly that when the brute chose to
try he was a very great horse, that he
not only had a tremendous turn of speed,
but, what rarely goes with it, great lasting
capabilities. Gerald was bent upon
playing for a big stake, and it grew upon
him more and more as he travelled on
that this queer-tempered iron-grey four-year-old
was the instrument for his purpose.
It was quite true that no more
dangerous horse to place your money on
could be found, as Sir Marmaduke had
discovered to his cost in the Hunt Cup
at Ascot, and Gerald was quite aware of
what the Dancing Master had once or
twice done with Pibroch and Bushranger
on the training ground to justify that
plunging on the baronet's part. Had the
horse in the race run within 71b. of his
home performance he would have won

easily, but then, again, that little infirmity
that wrecks both men and horses intervened,
and his " beastly temper" led to
his discomfiture. Still, this was just the
animal to " go for the gloves" on. What
may be termed his criminal record was so
bad that he was sure to be allotted a very
light weight in any handicap he might be
now entered for, and the Ring would be
bound to field strongly against a horse
whose irritable temperament was so well
known, and who had had already on more
than one occasion proved so staunch a
friend to them. The immediate question
naturally was, What did Bill Greyson
mean to do with the Dancing Master, now,
according to Dollie, returned to him to do
with as he willed ? It was not likely the
trainer would give up all hope concerning
him as yet, more especially when it was
borne in mind that he had been an amazingly
profitable horse to Mr. Bill Greyson,

and might yet, with luck and judicious
handling, be sold to considerable advantage.


Gerald was a little non-passed on arriving
at the Moor Farm with his reception.
The trainer seemed very pleased
to see him, but welcomed him hat in hand,
and as " Mr. Rockingham."

Very glad, indeed, to see you, sir.
The late squire was a liberal master to meat
one time, and it was not altogether my
fault that he took his horses away from
Riddleton. But what will you do Mr.
Rockingham ? Will you walk through
the stables first, and then have some
lunch, or will you have something to eat
at once P "

Thanks, Grey son. I am very much
pressed for time, so, if you will let me, I'll
have something to eat first, and I can talk
to you at the same time. Dollie tells me
you have got the Dancer back upon your
hands."

•' Yes ; Sir Marmaduke got such a sickener
over the Hunt Cup that he sent the
horse back the following week' replied
the trainer, sententiously. "It was
enough to make him ; but you rode in the
race, sir, and know all about it."

i l Yes, and I did think it was going to
be his day. I thought Blackton had us
all safe, when the Dancer suddenly shut
up, without rhyme or reason."

Yes ; he'll never get a better chance,
and it's hopeless to train him. He's been
a good horse to me, but I don't think anyone
else will ever get a turn out of him."

What do you mean to do with him ? "
inquired Gerald.

Sell him the very first opportunity,
and with a view to that I shall enter him
for the two big back-end handicaps. After
his exhibition at Ascot he is safe to be
thrown in, and he may catch somebody's
fancy who wants to go for a big stake
without very much risk. As I said before,

he's been a good horse to me, but I
don't trust him again."

Curious — "a big stake without very
much risk ! " Was not this the very
chance Gerald was seeking, and two very
good judges had foreseen that the Dancing
Master was a possible medium through
which that desirable consummation might
be achieved. Sir Marmaduke, in the first
instance, had hit off what Gerald began
to believe was the necessary combination
when he had leased the horse with a view
to winning the Leger; to wit, that the
Dancing Master would run honest in his
(Gerald's) hands, and no one else's. Now
Greyson saw a great opportunity in either
the Cesarewitch or Cambridgeshire, but,
strange to say, that it was essential Gerald
should ride did not seem to have occurred
to the astute trainer. But the idea was
rapidly spreading through Gerald's mind
that this might really be so, and that in
his hands the horse might once more

do his best, and carry off another big
race.

There are worse speculations about
than that," he said, at length, " and it
won't signify however light the weight
they put upon him. He has got such a
name as a bad-tempered coward, that
nothing but an enormous outlay of money
will ever make him a strong favourite.
The public have lost faith in him.

And so has the owner and trainer,"
said Greyson, laughing. " Would you
like to see him, sir ? "

Yes, by all means. I wonder whether
he'll remember me ? "

I'll pound it he will. They've wonderful
memories, have horses, and strongish
likes and dislikes. I'd a line from
Pipes," continued the trainer, as he led
the way towards the stables to the left of
the house, " when he sent the Dancer
back, ' Put up who you like on him,' he
wrote, ' but never Blackton ; the horse

can't bear him, and has tried to savage
him more than once. If Sir Marmaduke
would give him another chance I should
advise another jockey.' "

As Greyson opened the door of his box
the Dancing Master turned his head, casta
sinister glance at the new comers as
though recommending them to keep themselves
to themselves as far as he was concerned,
and then resumed some apparently
elaborate researches in his manger. The
horse certainly took no notice of Gerald,
but no sooner did it hear his whisper of
u Poor old Dancer," than it turned its
head sharply with a short grunt of satisfaction,
and unmistakably gazed wistfully
towards the corner from which the voice
had come.

Go up to him, sir; only be careful,"
said the trainer.

Gerald walked boldly up to the horse's
head, once more whispering u Poor old
Dancer ! " as he did so. The grey laid

back his ears viciously as he approached,
but upon hearing his voice the second
time apparently changed his mind, and
rubbed his black muzzle against his visitor's
waistcoat when he reached his
shoulder.

Well, sir," said the trainer, no little
astonished ; "I never saw him do that
before to any one. Did he ever to you
when you looked after him ? "

Yes, but only now and then. Still,
he always seemed to take notice when I
talked to him; though," added Gerald,
laughing, "he didn't take much heed of
what I said. He looks well."

"He's always well," returned Greyson;
"never been sick nor sorry yet. I wish
some of the others had his constitution.
Now, here's Caterham," he exclaimed, ashe
threw open the door of an adjoining
box, " a clipper, but as delicate a horse
as ever I trained. We couldn't make anything
of him last autumn ; but he's wonderfully

well now, and should do your
cousin, Mr. Ellis ton, a rare turn whenever

his time comes''

/

Which will be about October, I suppose,"
said Gerald.

I can't say, sir. Mr. Elliston is not
communicative, nor are his orders open
secrets even when I get them."

Gerald took the hint, and asked no
further questions. He strolled carelessly
through the stables, and honestly complimented
the trainer upon the blooming
condition of more than one of his charges.
As they walked back to the house he said
carelessly, "I suppose you'll keep the
Dancer in strong work ? "

'■ 1 shall train him so that he can easily
be wound up for either Cesarewitch or
Cambridgeshire, if any one wants to buy
him with a view to those handicaps ; but
as my horse he'll start for neither.' '

"Well, Greyson, thanks very much.
The nags, take 'em all round, look 



cheerfully well ; and now I must be off. I
shall hardly catch the train as it is."

Oh, yes, you will, sir. My trap's at
the door, and you've a good five minutes
in hand."

Good-bye. Kind regards to Mrs,
Greyson, and say how sorry I am to have
missed her," said Gerald, as he leaped
into the dog-cart.

CHAPTER VIII.

Crawley GOES TO THE HAMMER.

The weeks slipped by since Gerald's return
to Newmarket, and as yet he had
no opportunity of unburdening himself
to Lord Whitby, and ascertaining whether
the peer would exercise such social pressure
as lay at his command to compel
Cuthbert Elliston to restore some of the
money which lie had borrowed from
Alister Rockingham. Lord Whitby, indeed,
had only attended one race-meeting
of late, and that was Goodwood, where
Gerald had no opportunity of speaking to
him in private. York Races had come
round again, and Lord Whitby had announced

his intention of being there to
see his horses run, and then perhaps
Gerald might find the desired opportunity.
The peer was in rare good humour ; the
year had been a procession of triumphs sofar.
The Great Yorkshire Stakes and
sundry other valuable prizes at Don caster
and Newmarket were apparently at his
mercy, and he bid fair to be returned at
the head of the poll when the return of the
principal winners of the season should be
issued. York race-week, too, was to seethe
irrevocable sale of Cranley, and Gerald
reflected ruefully that, though he had
thought his coup out, and was quite determined
to play for it, yet, if it came off,
it would be too late to save u The Chase."
He had resolved, if he could, to try and
win the Cambridgeshire with the Dancing
Master, arguing that no weight there was
any probability of his being allotted could
prevent him if only the horse chose to do
his best. Still, this experiment could not

be tried till the end of October, and the
lands of the Rockinghams were to come
to the hammer in August. Gerald could
see no possibility of saving the home of
his ancestors. Men to advance money on
the possibility of a big race coming off
in one's favour are not to be met with ;
and that was about the sum total of
security that Gerald could proffer for such
a sum as would enable him to redeem
Cranley Chase.

What Greyson might want for the
Dancing Master was a thing that Gerald
had never troubled himself to consider.
It was no part of his scheme to buy the
horse ; he considered that such money
as he could spare he should want for
betting purposes, and that he would be
able to induce the trainer to run him inconsideration
of being put on to win a
comfortable stake. Gerald's idea was to
back the horse very quietly and gradually
as soon as betting began about the Cambridgeshire,

but not to disclose his plan
to Greyson until he had got the best part
of the sum he meant to speculate with
duly invested. The one flaw in his
scheme was this : there was always the
possibility of some one buying the Dancing
Master on the same speculation, and
not caring particularly about "Jim
Forrest's" riding for him, and it was
quite part of Gerald's belief that nobody
but himself could induce the horse to do
his best. He was young, and who shall
blame him if his head was just a little
turned with success ? Besides, had not
his late employer, Sir Marmaduke, taken
the same view of the case, and was not
Sir Marmaduke accounted exceedingly
wise among the younger generation of
turfites ?

Gerald went up to York, as in duty
bound, with slightly mingled feelings.
He had schooled himself to drop all false
pride about his profession by this, but he

did feel seriously anxious to acquit himself
with distinction on what might be termed
his own dunghill. Half the people on the
Knavesmire, he was aware, would know
that " Jim Forrest" was young Rockingham.
Besides, would not the lady of his
love be there to see, and it would never
do to go down in the lists before all this
goodly company. He was to ride, moreover,
a red-hot favourite for the Yorkshire
Stakes belonging to Lord Whitby, which
the prophets declared to a man could not
lose, and of the mendacious utterances of
racing seers Gerald by this had seen
something. When the prophets are in
unison there is more often trouble in
store for the favourite than not. Then
again, the sale of the Cranley estates was
to take place that week, which would call
additional attention to the last scion of
the Rockinghams. He had, of course,
quite made up his mind to all this, but it
was nevertheless a little trying up in his

61 ain countrey." However, he consoled
himself with the reflection that everybody
knew his story now, and, as for nerve,
well, it had never failed him on a racecourse
yet.

But Gerald was destined to hear a bit
of news on his arrival at York that roused
his ire not a little, and determined him to
lose no time in bringing any pressure he
could command to bear upon Cuthbert
Elliston. He was having his dinner
quietly in the coffee-room of Harder's
Hotel when his attention was attracted by
hearing his own name mentioned by one
of two individuals who were dining in the
adjoining box.

Yes," continued the speaker, " he was
a rare sportsman was poor Squire Rockingham,
and carried on the game merrily.
He was a bold better, too, terrible bold,
but the Ring outstayed him, as they
always do when men dash it down as he
did."

Ah, all Cranley's to come to the
hammer; there's a nice bit of grazing land.
I mean to have it if it goes reasonable.
Lot 34 ; here you are," and the speaker
evidently referred to a sale catalogue.

I wonder who'll buy the Chase itself,"
said the first speaker.

"Well, it's a bit of a secret, so you
must not go gabbling it all about the city ;
but Lawyer Pearson always manages what
law business I have. I consulted him
about this bit of land I want to buy on
Friday. Now, I chance to have a nephew
in the office, and I often have a chat with
him, and we got talking over the big
Cranley sale. He told me they had three
or four commissions to buy at a price, and
one, he said, from the family."

Ah, that'd be for the Chase. I'll be
main glad if the Rockingham can contrive
to keep the Chase, and so'll many
another."

Oh, but this chap isn't a Eockingham

exactly. He's one of the family, no
doubt, but one the country side don't care
much about. Yorkshire was no better for
Cuthbert Elliston's winning the Leger,
nor the poor squire either that ever I
heard."

c No ; I don't think folk will be much
pleased at Mr. Elliston taking Alister
Rockingham's place."

No ; he's a cross-bred 'un, that Ellis-ton.
In the days the poor Squire had
winners, half Yorkshire was in the swim,
but Mr. Elliston and Pearson always eat
their own cake, and don't want any one
to help them."

And then the speakers dismissed the
Cranley sale from their conversation, and
became immersed in elaborate calculations
about weights and previous performances,
all bearing more or less on the forthcoming
week's racing,

Gerald drew his breath hard as he
listened to the above. What! Cuthbert

Elliston, his detested cousin, master of the
Chase ! Could Heaven look calmly down
upon such iniquity ? The man who had
robbed his father sitting down in that
much-loved home upon the proceeds of his
frauds seemed to Gerald too monstrous.
It mattered little who had the Chase., but
any one rather than Cuthbert Elliston.
Nothing would grate upon the feelings of
him and his more than the idea of his
cousin installed at the Chase. If he could
prevent that, he would at any cost, but
the question was, could he ? He was in
no position to bid against Cuthbert for its
possession, and, if his cousin could afford
to buy it, who was to prevent him ? He
must see Writson tomorrow before the
racing began, and even as the idea passed
through his mind it was almost effaced by
the rapid afterthought, what was the good
of seeing Writson ? Then he resolved to
go to bed betimes, and see Lord Whitby
the first thing next morning. If that

nobleman chose to help him, he might at
all events prevent Elliston buying the
Chase.

True to his resolution Gerald presented
himself at the Black Swan the next morning,
and sent up his name to Lord
Whitby, with a request that he would see
him for a few minutes. It rather annoyed
Gerald to find that he attracted not a
little attention among the servants and
loungers, but he had made up his mind
that must be. His story was, of course,
public property now, and there were
plenty of people in York who knew young
Rockingham by sight, as well as many
more who as race goers were familiar with
the features of Jim Forrest the jockey.
However, a few minutes, and a waiter
requests him to step upstairs, and ushers
him into a sitting-room, where he finds
Lord Whitby lounging over the debris of
his breakfast.

Sit down, Mr. Rockingham," said that

nobleman, greeting him with that rather
studied politeness, which was one of his
most marked attributes, until such time as
circumstances stirred the tempest of his
wrath, when his language was apt to be
more forcible than polished. " I am
afraid this sale must grate upon your
feelings rather, but you have no doubt
made up your mind to it as inevitable."

ci Yes, my lord," replied Gerald, who
never permitted himself to forget that he
was speaking to his employer; u but I
have heard a bit of news about it that has
annoyed me much since I have been in
York, and that is that my cousin, Cuthbert
Elliston, contemplates buying my
old home "

16 1 don't think the neighbourhood will
welcome him very cordially as the successor
of Alister Rockingham," replied
Lord Whitby, contemptuously. " Your
cousin is neither popular nor in very good
odour amongst the gentlemen on the turf.

I don't think much of Mr. Elliston; in
fact, sir, I consider him a d d scoundrel,"
concluded the peer, who detested
the man, and had been rather outspoken
concerning some of his more questionable
practices.

You can't think worse of him, my
lord, than I do," replied Gerald. i£ He
had a principal share in my father's ruin.
Since I have been a jockey I have heard
the story of Phaeton's Leger. I hold at
the present moment a sheaf of his bills
which my poor father had to meet representing
several thousand pounds, and
which he has the audacity to wish to
compound for one, knowing how we have
been left. I know, moreover, on more
than one occasion that his manoeuvring
with the horses almost compromised my
father's honour. Greyson told me the
other day that it was not altogether his
fault that my father left him. Not altogether,
no ! It was because he was weak

enough to follow Cuthbert Elliston's
orders."

el You're right, Rockingham, by heaven
you are ! " exclaimed the peer, passionately.
That's the whole story of your father's
death and ruin, for it was the utter smash
that broke his heart at last. No ! Sooner

than that d d black-hearted thief should

step into his shoes I'll buy the Chase myself.
I don't want it, but," and here the
speaker launched a mighty torrent of
execrations which culminated in the peroration
that "a white-livered skunk should
never have it."

But at last the choleric nobleman
calmed down, and made Gerald tell him
all about the bills, and Cuthbert Elliston's
conduct concerning them ; even the bitter
advice Elliston had tendered just after
Alister Rockingham's funeral Lord Whitby
managed to draw from the young fellow.

Did he know who you were when you

VOL. It. L

rode his horse in the Two Thousand last
year ? "

"No; but of course he recognised meas
soon as I had won, and immediately
gave orders that I was to be sent away
from Riddleton. That is the sole guerdon
I received at his hands for my success."

Ah, I fancy he didn't profit much by
it, and that probably he would have been
just as well pleased if you hadn't won''

"At all events he's repented once of
his advice ; when I beat him on Sir Mar-mature's
horse for the Goodwood Stakes
last year I know it was a costly race for
him."

Well, Rockingham, I'll do the best I
can for you, but rest assured of one thing,
Cuthbert Elliston shall never reign at
Cranley. Just write me down your
solicitor's address."

Gerald did so, and then thanked his
lordship and departed gaily. It was the
presage of a most successful week. He

not only brought off the Great Yorkshire
Stakes successfully for his employer, but
never rode more brilliantly, and carried
off some four or five minor stakes to boot.
In one instance his triumph was notably
due to his fine horsemanship.

But if it was a successful week for
Gerald it was a most disastrous one for
Elliston. Riddleton rather laid itself out
for handicaps, and had certainly flattered
itself that some two or three of these races
lay at its mercy when it saw the weights
allotted to its representatives. But the
.stable was dead out of luck, and failed
upon each occasion to achieve the expected
victory. Even the cautious Sam
Pearson looked glum as he saw the accumulation
of figures on the debit scale of
his betting-book, while, as for Elliston,
who had looked forward to his week's
winnings to materially assist him towards
the purchase of the Chase, he could not
control his ill-humour, which a communi



cation from Pearson did not tend to
mitigate.

Whether under the circumstances Ellis-ton
would have persisted in his mad
design is open to question, but a visit Mr.
Writson paid Pearson on the Wednesday
morning effectually settled Mr. Elliston's
pretensions in the matter. Writson said
he was instructed by Lord Whitby to let
Mr. Elliston know, through his solicitor,
that as an old friend of Alister Rockingham's
he intended to exercise all the social
pressure he could bring to bear to wring
from Elliston the sum he was still in
honour indebted to the Rockingham family.
"Further," continued Pearson, "I was
clearly given to understand that if you
attempted to bid for the Chase the story
would be widely spread through York
that you were buying the house with the
money the squire had lent you, and that,
moreover, you would have to encounter a
pretty stiff opposition to boot."

That means that old Whitby will
bid against me, I suppose," interrupted
Elliston, roughly. " It's useless to
measure purses with him, or else it's
little I care for his threats in the other
direction."

But Cuthbert Elliston knew that he lied
when he said this, and so did his chum
and partner, Pearson. Elliston's reputation
was too shady to risk a row with such
a relentless and powerful opponent as
Lord Whitby, and so it came to pass
that when the Chase was brought to the
hammer it pleased that wealthy and
eccentric nobleman, in high good humour
with his York victories, to buy it, with no
very clear idea of what he was going todo
with it after he had got it.

CHAPTER IX.

DOLLIE TURNS SCHOOLMISTRESS.

York had made the confederates take
counsel as to how its disasters were to be
retrieved. Ellis ton in particular had
been a very heavy loser, dropping, in-indeed,
a considerable portion of the
winnings of the year. He was always a
rather dashing bettor when in funds, and
in his impatience to increase his capital
had conducted his speculations on a more
extensive scale than usual. He was, moreover,
by no means so impassive in the
hour of defeat as his more cautious
partner, who usually bore victory or reverses
with stoical indifference. It maybe

that he was conscious of a second
string to his bow, and felt that, when he
had failed to get the better of the bookmakers,
his clients, at all events, were not
likely to escape with their quill-feathers.

Elliston was of that type of man unbearable
in either fortune. Exultant,
hectoring, and blustering when in luck ;
morose, cynical, and sarcastic when the
capricious goddess abandoned him. He
was further embittered by another message
he received from Mr. Writson, that,
though in consideration of his reverses at
York social pressure would not be immediately
brought to bear upon him, yet,
unless he made arrangements to pay two
thousand in liquidation of those bills, the
story of the transaction would be made
public, and a hint was thrown out that he
was at all events the owner of some valuable
horses, which might be realised.

That old brute, Whitby, is pulling the
strings, of course, Sam. He must do his

worst. I've not the money to spare at
present," snarled Elliston when Pearson
delivered his message.

Yes, and when you have got hold of
a couple of thousand pounds I recommend
you to come to terms. Whitby's a dangerous
man for a trite to quarrel with,
and carries too many guns for you or me."

Nonsense! Don't bother any more
about the bills. You had far more of poor
Alister's money, if the truth was told,
than I had."

That's got nothing to do with it.
What I received was in the way of business.
However, the bills are your affair,
not mine, and you know best what the
consequences will be to you if the story
comes out. I should call it awkward if it
threatened me, and should imagine it was
worse for you," rejoined the attorney.

At all events, it isn't pressing just
now, and, if our present luck lasts, I bid
fair to be tolerably indifferent to public

opinion before the year's out," replied
Elliston.

The scene of the above conversation
was that very room at the Salutation at
Doncaster in which it had been decided
to win the Leger two years before with
Phaeton if possible. Elliston had won
and lost a good deal of money since then,
but probably was at the present moment
very little richer than before that great
coup. Money made by gambling is ever
shifting as a quicksand, pouring from one
pocket into another with feverish haste,
as if bitten by the restlessness of those
who win and lose it. After studying a
sheet of paper intently for some minutes
Elliston exclaimed petulantly :

u Except our confounded luck I can't
see anything to beat Caterham in either
handicap."

No," returned Pearson, who was occupied
in a similar study of the weights

for the Cesarewitch and Cambridgeshire.
Seven stone twelve on a five-year-old
that was good enough to win the Two
Thousand at three can't be called excessive."


No ; and they've given him five
pounds less in the long race, which shows
that they think as we do that he's better
at one mile than two. We must go over
to Biddleton, and have a talk with Grey-son,
and, if we only find the horse going
on as well as he was the last time I was
there, we'll slip him for the Cambridgeshire."


Yes," said Pearson, "he ought to
have a great chance ; but here's another
Two Thousand winner at the same weight,
Mr. Greyson's Dancing Master, four-year-old,
seven twelve."

Bah ! a brute with a temper like that
it don't much matter how little they put
upon his back, besides, we can always

give Greyson orders not to run him,"
rejoined Elliston. " Sir Marmaduke's done
with him, you know."

True ! his temper's quite gone, I
fancy. Still, he's always just the beggar
to upset calculations. There ought to bea
law prohibiting the running of such
horses as him, for the protection of owners
and backers. However, I don't suppose
Greyson has any serious intention of
starting him."

No ; however, I shall veto that if he
has. We'll go over to Riddleton on
Monday and have a confab with him
about it, and then trust me to slowly work
the commission. We ought to take thirty
thousand out of the Ring easily over
this."

Providing it comes off ; but remember
we're not the only people who have laid
themselves out for the same little game,"
rejoined cautious Sam Pearson. " There's
a good many just as sanguine as ourselves,

and with cards up their sleeve that
we know nothing about."

Still, the more the confederates talked
over the thing the firmer they became in
their conviction that they had a very big
chance of winning the Cambridgeshire,
and before their conference broke up it
had been decided between them that,
unless Greyson showed good cause why
they should not run Caterham for that
race, run they would, and give the Ring
reason to remember it if it came off.

But, as Pearson had suggested, there
were many inquisitive eyes scanning that
mystical problem, the weights for the
Autumn Handicaps, and it was with a
grin of intense satisfaction that Elliston
noted, ere the Doncaster Meeting terminated,
a strong disposition on the part
of the public to back Caterham for the
Cesarewitch.

We'll let 'em burn their fingers pretty
badly over that, Sam," said that astute

and unscrupulous tactician, " and then
they'll leave chestnuts of ours alone for
the future, and let us take 'em out of the
fire for ourselves."

Betting, in the days of our story, commenced
on the two great Autumn Handicaps
at Newmarket considerably earlier
than it does at present, and two people
noted with no little interest that the
Dancing Master was ever and again
backed at long shots for the Cambridgeshire.
Those two were Mr. Grey son and
his daughter. The trainer had no conception
who it was that kept snapping an
odd thousand to twenty or thousand to
thirty about the horse, but he sent him
sedulously along in his work, on the speculation
that, whoever it might be, he would
be sure to have a start for his money at
all events, if only for hedging purposes.
He did not in the least imagine it was
the public. An uncertain-tempered brute
like the Dancing Master was not at all

the kind of animal that commends itself
to the noble army of backers. Mr. Bill
Greyson thought it much more likely that
a syndicate of bookmakers had plotted to
make a good thing out of the horse by
working him in the betting-market like
any other " corner " on the Stock Exchange,
and in that case they would
sooner or later inevitably have to make
terms with him. He did not in the least
believe that money was to be won by
backing the grey, but he did think
that he was the sort of horse that men
skilful in the manipulation of the betting-market
might frighten the public into
rushing on at the last. He confided none
of these imaginings to either his wife or
daughter, but adhered faithfully to a pet
maxim of his own, for which Bill Greyson
had often been laughed at by his brother
cras tin asters : " Say nothing, but send 'em
along."

Dollie, on the contrary, watched the

Cambridgeshire betting with the keenest
interest. Gerald had told her nothing
further about his plans, but she felt sure
that it was on his behalf that the money
was being so cautiously dribbled on to the
Dancing Master. Always an early riser,
she resumed an old habit rather laid aside
of late years — the cantering up with her
father in the early morning to see the
horses at their work, and her heart swelled
as she saw the strong resolute fashion in
which the grey, when in the humour,
galloped over his companions. She felt
sure that if he liked he could, in racing
parlance, make Caterham, Phaeton, and
all the rest, " lie down," and she begged
her father again and again to let her give
the Dancing Master a gallop. Bill Grey-son
had seen what his daughter could do
with a fractious colt many a time. There
wasn't a lad about the place who didn't
look upon Miss Dollie as a wonder in the
saddle, while as for Joe Butters, he firmly

believed Miss Dollie could do more with a
bad-tempered colt than any jockey at
Newmarket, but the trainer was not to be
cajoled. He regarded the Dancing Master
as really about the worst-tempered horse
it had ever been his ill-luck to deal with,
and he had no idea of permitting his only
child to risk her bones on the back of the
unmannerly brute.

But it so chanced business called Mr.
Grey son away for a couple of nights, and
he was consequently compelled to handover
his charges to the superintendence of
Joe Butters, his very steady and capable
lieutenant, and now came Dollie's opportunity.
From her childhood she had
domineered over Butters, who simply
regarded her as a phenomenon. He
thought there was nobody like her, that
there was nothing she couldn't do if she
tried, but he did rather demur when she
told him the day after her father's departure
that she would give the Dancer his

gallop that morning. It was not for one
moment that he doubted her ability to do
so ; if a horse could be ridden at all of
course Miss Dollie could ride it ; but he
had a shrewd idea that old Greyson had
forbidden this thing, and he knew that
the stern old trainer was little likely to
overlook any infraction of orders. Butters
was too rigid a disciplinarian to dream of
deviating from ordinary routine or the
few commands left for his guidance, but
Greyson had never thought it worth while
to place a prohibition upon his daughter's
whim

Joe, in short, was taken desperately
aback at Dollie's request, and at last
parried it with u Oh, I say Miss Dollie,
you know he don't allow any one not
duly insured to get upon that horse.
Bless you, Miss, we keep him chiefly to
work off the useless stable boys with. If
you notice there's one missing every now
and then. Well, we've put him on the

VOL. III. M

Dancer, and after a few minutes there's
generally nothing left for us to do but
pick up the pieces and cart 'em away for
Christian burial . ' '

"Yes, Joe, I know," rejoined Dollie,
with preternatural gravity, although her
eyes were dancing with fun, " but what I
don't know, and must and will know, is
where you do bury them ? "

It's a profound secret, and you'll
never tell, promise?" replied Butters with
a conscious twinkle in his eye. " We put
'em away at the back of the furzes, but
you know, Miss Dollie, there'd be an
awful row if we had to carry you there.
No, leave the Dancer alone. We all know
you can ride anything, but he isn't a
lady's horse, Miss Dollie, he isn't indeed."

Don't be a fool, Joe. You've seen
me ride a good many that the veriest
horse-coper out would hesitate to describe
as that. Tell them to bring the Dancer
up here at once, and shift my saddle."

What a horse-coper would say, or
what a wilful woman will do' thought
Mr. Butters, '" are a couple of equivalent
conundrums a deal beyond me, but there's
one thing I can swear to, and that is
giving Miss Dollie her own way is only a
matter of time as far as I am concerned.
They most on 'em gets round me, but she

Here, bring the Dancer up here ; slip

off, Matthews, and shift these saddles.
Miss Dollie is going to give him a gallop
this morning. If she can't make him go
we may turn him up. It's not likely any
of you can."

The Dancing Master eyed Dollie's short
grey habit with undoubted distrust ; and,
active as the girl was, and clever as
Butters and his myrmidons were in the
handling of thoroughbreds, it was some
little trouble to place her on his back; but
Dollie had unbounded pluck, and, muttering
between her white little teeth,
4 Gerald rode the horse for my sake, and

M 2

I'll do as much for him," she promptly
responded to Butters's "Now, Miss Dollie,"
and, taking advantage of a slight lull in
the grey's vagaries, was dropped into the
saddle light as a bird. For a moment
the Dancer" seemed stupefied by her
audacity, a precious moment promptly
utilised by the girl in settling herself in
her seat, and then, as if in answer to her
cheery " let his head go'' the horse gave
two tremendous plunges, and shook his
head angrily. But Dollie remained immovable,
her hands just played upon the
bit lightly as they might have done upon
a piano, while she spoke to the offender
in soothing tones of expostulation. The
grey seemed to consider the case, shook
his head once more angrily, gave a vicious
lash out that would have been bad for anyone
within reach, and then jumped off up
the gallop at a rattling pace. . Infirmities
of temper the horse had, no doubt, but he
was not cursed with that equine vice, "a

hard mouth," and if Dollie's hands were
light, they had little wrists strong as steel
behind them. Before they had gone half-a-mile
she felt that she had "the Dancer "
well under control ; and then the girl,
with flushed face and sparkling eyes, took
a steady pull at him. and sent him soberly
along at three-quarter speed, talking to
and encouraging him all the while, and,
when in the last quarter of a mile she
shook him up and finished at racing speed,
the horse responded to her call, and ran
home strong as a lion.

A perfect ovation from Butters and the
stable-boys met Dollie as she pulled up.
They had hold of the Dancer's head, and
Butters jumped the girl off his back as
quickly as possible.

u That's the best gallop he's done since
we got him back from Newmarket, Miss
Dollie," exclaimed that worthy, inexpressibly
relieved to find that no harm

had come of the girl's freak. ' ' I never
saw him go better."

Go better, Joe ! he's the sweetest
galloper I was ever on. Smooth and easy
as an express train ; and what a stride ! I
don't believe we ever had such a horse at
Riddleton before. Temper! — he's not a
bad-tempered one. I'll tell you the secret
of the Dancer : he has a very delicate
mouth. In any other hands but mine
that bit and bridoon would madden him.
I'll ride him his gallops in future. Don't
look frightened, Joe ; but tell some one to
bring up my hack. I'll make it all right
with my father to-night."

And then Dollie rode home to breakfast
with a strong conviction that she had done
a good morning's work, and had something
to tell her lover worth his knowing,
if it was for him that the Dancer was
so quietly but persistently backed for the
Cambridgeshire.

The girl had every reason to be pleased
with her prospects. She had stayed on in
York for a fortnight or so after Gerald
had left it, and during that time had seen
a great deal of her future mother and
sister-in-law, and to her great delight had
got on wonderfully well with them. She
owed this in some measure to herself, but
she was quite aware that she was also indebted
considerably to the fearless, outspoken
Rector of St. Margaret's. John
Thorndyke had been much taken with the
girl. That he should study closely one
about to be nearly connected with himself
was only natural, and he was much
pleased not only to find her so well educated
and ladylike, but to discover that
she possessed a large fund of practical
common sense besides. Thorndyke stood
up for the girl ; he argued that Gerald
might have done much worse ; that we
were fast merging into a democracy ; and
that the distinctions of rank would soon

be things of the past; that she was a
good, sensible, lady-like young woman,
and would probably be an excellent wife
to Gerald; and " that," added the Rector,
counts for much in a man's career."

That John Thorndyke's opinions were
likely to carry much weight in St.
Leonard's Place we know well, and the
consequence was both Mrs. Rockingham
and Ellen viewed the girl, so to speak,
through John Thorndyke's spectacles, and
made much of Dollie accordingly.

Let us only win this big stake over
the Cambridgeshire, and Gerald, my dear,
I'll have the Dancer completely sobered
down before you want him," said Dollie
to herself; " and save Cranley — No, I'm
afraid we can't do that — it's gone — but
your people will welcome me cordially
amongst them all the same," and with
these somewhat incoherent reflections
Dollie finished her breakfast.

CHAPTER X.

STEALING A KISS.

William Greyson, when, on his return
that evening he was informed by Dollie
of her morning's feat, shook his head
gravely, and vowed he would give Joe
Butters a bit of his mind in the morning.


Dash it'' he growled, " there's neither
man, woman, nor boy I can trust about
the place. The idea, you monkey, of
your wanting to get on the Dancer. You
knew I had forbidden it."

"Yes," said Dollie, demurely, "but
you know when you tell a girl she mustn't
she always feels she must."

"Ah, well, you've done it, and thank
God no harm's come of it. But, if Joe
Butters thinks I am going to stand such
laxity about stable discipline as that, he's
much mistaken."

Now, father, listen to me," said Dollie.
You must not scold Butters, because I've
bullied him since I was a child, and he
didn't know how to say no to your
daughter when she was peremptory. He
was as frightened as you could have been
till I was safely off the horse again. But
mind, I'm going to ride the Dancer every
morning, and you'll see he'll go quiet
enough with me."

The trainer was at first emphatic in his
denunciation of Butters, and scoffed at
the idea of ever letting his daughter get
on the horse again, but after a cigar and
a jorum of hot grog he promised that
Butters's offending should be condoned,
and as for Dollie riding the Dancing
Master again, well, he would see about it.

Bill Greyson was very proud and fond
of his daughter, and as a horsewoman he
believed there had never been her like.
He had implicit confidence in her ability
to ride anything, but he had hesitated
about permitting her to try her hand on
such a very queer-tempered brute as the
Dancer. Now she had done it, and
successfully too, and as he wended his
way to bed the trainer turned it over in
his mind, and thought there might not be
much risk after all in letting the girl see
tomorrow morning what she could make
of him.

From this out Dollie rode the grey
regularly in his morning work, and it
was very singular how very much more
tractable the horse became in her hands
than he had hitherto been. It must not be
supposed that he never showed temper;
there was always trouble, for instance,
about mounting. Custom did not seem
to reconcile him to the habit skirt in the



least, and he invariably entered an angry
protest against its advent on his back.
He would plunge and kick as of yore,
and often require much coaxing to induce
him to jump off on his gallop, but he
unmistakably went much better when
started than he had ever done with anyone
else. He rarely attempted to either
bolt or stop when Dollie was sending him
along, and, though Greyson deemed there
was still little reliance to be placed upon
him on a racecourse, the trainer certainly
did think that the horse was improving.

The beginning of October found Cuthbert
Elliston in all his glory. Every
morning brought him a line from Riddleton
to say that Caterham could not be
doing better and there was every hope
he would be as fit as hands could make
him by the end of the month. The betting
on the great handicaps was now getting
heavy, and Elliston had already succeeded
in backing his horse to win a very considerable

stake. The public had left him
the market very much to himself. middleton
had the reputation amongst backers
of being a very dangerous stable to meddle
with, and though, in the first instance,
they had nibbled a little at Caterham for
the Cesarewitch it was not long before it
oozed out that his owner had not got a
shilling on him for that race, and that
his starting was very doubtful. Then the
public, disgusted at the apparently certain
loss of their investments, vowed they
would have no more of Mr. Elliston's
horses, and hoped devoutly he might
never win another race. The sporting
public is a little apt to talk in that wise
when it has burnt its fingers, but it soon
forgets, and before long again follows the
will-o'-the-wisp that has deceived it
already.

It was just at this time when Cuthbert
Elliston was positively revelling in "the

possibility of the potentiality of riches,"
once more dreaming of having broken the
Ring — that oft-recurring dream which
never is realised — that he received a curt
epistle from his partner which a little
disconcerted him.

u Caterham is going like great guns,"
it said, " and on paper there's nothing to
beat him, and, what is more, I feel sure
that when we put him alongside our
trying tackle he will quite confirm that
opinion. I saw him last week, and he
has never looked so well since he won the
Two Thousand. But who's backing the
Dancing Master ? Somebody undoubtedly
keeps dribbling money on him if the
Tattersall quotations can be trusted. Old
Bill swears he knows nothing about it,
for I asked him. However, the horse
looks wonderfully well, and does his
work, I am told, by himself. He is in
the sale list, and Greyson has no intention,

I believe, of even sending him to
Newmarket, still, as I asked before, who
is it persistently backs him ? "

Elliston was not particularly put outby
this letter, but he had been too long
on the turf not to know, that, when meditating
such a coup as he did, no chance
that could be conceived was unworthy of
consideration. He thought it would be
as well, perhaps, if he ran up to York,
had a look at Caterham, and explained to
Grey son that he should not sanction his
starting the Dancing Master for the Cambridgeshire
; but before he started it would
be as well perhaps to ascertain whose
money it was that went so frequently on
the Dancing Master. Upon applying to
Broughton, with whom he had had many
business transactions on the subject, the
great north-country bookmaker replied,
I hardly know, sir. A little man named
Johnson took all my book for both races
before the weights were out, and he

occasionally backs him again, but the
horse is avowedly for sale, and, I should
think, not likely to run for either, much
less run straight if he does. But he's in
your own stable, you know what his
temper is."

u And who is this Johnson ? " inquired
Elliston, without paying any attention to
ths latter part of Broughton's speech.

Little man in a tall hat, sir. Bets
chiefly on commission for a circle of small
country clients, but I never knew him
have the working of a real commission.
His customers deal in fives and tens
mostly. He's a straightforward little
man enough, and I daresay he's parcelled
out his Dancing Master money again before
this."

All this was quite satisfactory to Ellis-ton.
He never dreamt of questioning the
accuracy of the information because it
chimed in exactly with his own view of
the case, and in one sense the great

Northern bookmaker had told him the
truth. Johnson and one or two of Johnson's
colleagues were the backers of the
Dancing Master, and it was perfectly true,
as Broughton had said, that Johnson had
taken the whole of his book upon both
races about the horse at a very early
period ; but what Broughton did not tell
Cuthbert Elliston was that he had an idea
Johnson was this time cleverly working a
very well authorised commission, and that
he personally had taken more than one
opportunity of what is termed " getting
out," that is, backing the horse against
which he had previously laid. In the
first place, Broughton really did not know
at whose inspiration Johnson was backing
the Dancing Master, and, secondly, Cuthbert
Elliston was a very unpopular man
in the Ring. He was a hard man, who
had punished them severely at times, and
never given any of those whom he
threatened to hit a hint to save them-vol.

III. N

selves. As a rule the racing world
generally rather chuckled when Cuddie
Elliston was, to use their own expression,
warmed up," a feeling not at all confined
to that section of the community, but
prevalent amongst many little seaside
coteries, who rejoice exceedingly when
their neighbour is rumoured to have come
to trouble over Egyptians or some similar
popular delusion.

Mr. Elliston started for the North with
a mind quite relieved as to the backers of
the Dancing Master. He put it airily
down to that great and long-suffering
body, the British public, a public accustomed
to pay dearly for its insufficient
entertainment, accommodation, and its
pastimes generally, and a public whose
bound en duty it was, in Cuthbert Ellis-ton's
eyes, to lose money for the benefit
of those who kept race-horses for their
amusement. He did not pull up on this
occasion at York, after his wont, and stay

with his partner, but passed on straight
to Riddleton, where he had telegraphed
to Greyson to have something at the railway
station to meet him. The trainer
was there himself, and as they drove upto
the Moor they naturally discussed the
bearings of the Cambridgeshire together.

The horse never was better," said
Greyson, as they turned into the stable-yard.
i( I roughed him up this morning
long before I got your telegram. Not
quite a regular trial, but what we call a
Yorkshire gallop,' and if, bar accident,
you don't win the Cambridgeshire, I can
only say there's a clipper in the background
whose measure we've not got. 1 '

No, I think it's good enough. Of
course, you stand anything up to a hundred
you like, taking the average of
the commission," replied Elliston, "and
the price is pretty good. T should like
to see the horse at once," he continued,

N 2

as he stepped out of the trap, " and then
you shall give me some lunch."

All right, sir," said Greyson, " and I
never showed you one with more pleasure.
He's about fit to run now, but I know I
can make him a bit better by the Houghton
week."

The trainer might well look with pride
into Elliston's face as the lad whipped the
sheets off Caterham. He was as fine a
specimen of a thoroughbred horse as ever
was stripped. A rich, dark bay, standing
at least sixteen one, and a rare good-looking
horse. Old hypercritical turfites,
rendered sceptical from losses over many
a " beauty," would say, u Yes, that's just
his weak point, he's a little too good-looking."
I have heard infidels of this
type talk in the same way about fashionable
beauties, and pronounce them just a
shade too handsome ever to mellow down
for matrimony, and noticed as a fact that

their plainer sisters have done better in
that particular. Women, I suppose,

Who, born for the universe, made up their mind
Not a husband to give what was meant for mankind,

to paraphrase Goldsmith.

The Dancing Master was by no means
so thoroughly handsome a horse, and yet
his great ragged hips and low muscular
thighs would have struck any judge of a
racehorse, but then that little infirmity of
a temper of his was well known, and no
matter what his galloping points, or even
capabilities, might be, that alone, amidst
the crowds of people and the large fields
of horses prevalent on English racecourses,
was quite sufficient to forbid his
being 1 taken into much consideration. But
Caterham was every inch a good-looking
one. You could pick very few holes in
the dashing winner of the Two Thousand,
who, it was well known, had never been
quite right or intended to win ever since.

The public had great and reasonable
doubts of his soundness, and also thoroughly
well justified grounds for mistrusting
his owners' intentions, but the horse,
as Elliston, no mean judge, admitted at
once, had never looked better. His coat
shone like burnished copper, and his eye
looked clear, bright, and full as the
evening star.

He does you credit, Greyson, and if
we are beat it won't be your fault.
We've, partly from luck and partly from
our clever tactics, thoroughly blinded the
handicappers ; they've given Phaeton 71b.
more than Caterham, and it should just
be the other way I consider."

Yes, sir, I should think this one could
give Phaeton quite 71b. ; there was something
like that between them this morning."

It's good enough, bar accidents, and I
have secured a very good jockey. Now,
what about that grey of yours ? Somebody's
backing him, and he might be

dangerous if he did take it into his
head."

66 Well, sir, it's no money of mine that
goes on him, nor any belief of mine that
he will ever win another race. He's in
the sale list, and unless somebody buys
him he won't even go to Newmarket."

u I needn't bother my head, then, anymore
about him," rejoined Elliston; "but
come in and give me some lunch now.
I'm in a hurry to get back to town."

The trainer quickly led the way back
to the quaint, old-fashioned dining-room
on the ground floor, with its low windows
looking out on the grass-plot and the
wide-spreading chestnut tree that decked
its centre. The windows were half-open,
letting in the scent of the creepers that
covered the house and the flowers that
still lingered in the borders surrounding,
for it was one of those soft autumns
which made men loth to leave their

summer haunts and return to the busy
hum of cities.

Hap what may, there's never lack of
provender for either man or horse about a
racing establishment, and Elliston, who
was rather given to the pleasures of the
table, washed down an excellent meal
with a flask of dry champagne, and then
proceeded to aid its digestion with the help
of a Cabala and some curious old brown
sherry, much in repute amongst the frequenters
of Riddleton.

You gallop that bad-tempered brute
of yours by himself, Greyson, I hear ? "
remarked Elliston, as he leant back in his
chair in lazy enjoyment of his cigar.

Yes, sir; and, to tell you the truth,
Dollie usually rides him."

a What ! You don't mean to tell me
you've put the girl on a devil like that ?
Begad, if anything happens to her,
hanging's too good for you."

She got on him first without my

knowledge or consent. But she can do
more with him now than any boy in the
stable."

At this juncture a smart servant-girl
entered the room, and, with a smile handing
Greyson a note, intimated that the
bearer was waiting.

The trainer glanced over it, and then,
crushing it in his hand, said :

u I must ask you to excuse me, Mr.
Elliston, a few minutes. The wife's away
at York, but Dollie will give you your
coffee, and tell you anything you want to
know about ' The Dancer.' "

All right ! Mind I'm not late for my
train," rejoined Elliston, who, having
transacted his business and enjoyed his
luncheon like the Sybarite he was, reflected
that Dollie would be far pleasant
to talk to over his cigar than her father.

A minute or two later, and followed by
a servant, bearing a tray with all the
apparatus of coffee, Miss Dollie entered.

God bless my soul, what a pretty girl
you have grown ! " exclaimed Elliston,
honestly surprised to see how the girl's
beauty had ripened within the last few
months. " Upon my word, my dear, we
must see about finding a husband for you."

You're very good, Mr. Elliston,"
replied Dollie, with a coquettish toss of
her head, "but pray don't trouble yourself."


Ah ! you think you can manage that
for yourself, eh ? " replied Elliston, laughing.


I don't think it will be necessary to
call in assistance, at all events. Will you
take sugar ? "

No, thank you. But what have you
been doing to yourself, child, to make
yourself so much handsomer ? "

Riddleton air and morning gallops, I
suppose," replied the girl; "but I flattered
myself I wasn't so much amiss
before."

"No more you were, Dollie," said Elliston,
as he threw away the end of his
cigar, and rose from his chair. ' ' You've
got lovely hair, child 7 and as he spoke
he passed his hand caressingly over it.

"Don't, please, Mr. Elliston," cried the
girl, instinctively shrinking back, and
glancing up at his flushed face with
dismay.

11 Pooh, Dollie, you little prude ! I've
stroked your hair many a time as a child,
when it wasn't so well worth stroking as
it is now, and kissed you too, my dear,
when you were not quite so well worth
kissing as you are now," and as he spoke
Elliston suddenly passed his arm round
the girl's waist, and pressed his sherry -
stained lips to hers.

Dollie gave a half cry, and tried fiercely
to thrust back the aggressor, but he was
too strong for her, and, holding her fast
in his arms, repeated the offence with the
brutal taunt, "Bah, you little idiot, your

mother would never have made so much
fuss about such a trifle."

As he spoke the sash of the window
was thrown quite up. A slight figure
sprang through it, and as Elliston turned
to confront the new comer he received a
straight left-hander in the chest that sent
him back reeling.

Oh, Gerald, Gerald, what have you
done ? Oh, please, please," cried Dollie,
bursting into tears.

Done ! " exclaimed Gerald, in tones
hoarse with passion, " done my best to
knock down the biggest blackguard in
England."

Elliston recovered himself with a
mighty effort. His eyes gleamed with
fury, and in a low grating voice he said,
You young scoundrel; you shall pay
for this," and gathering himself together
was about to rush on his antagonist.

But quick as thought Gerald passed
Dollie behind him, and, throwing himself

into fighting attitude, coolly awaited
the rush of his cousin. Despite his
superior size, height, and it may be presumed
strength, Elliston suddenly realised
that Gerald's chastisement was not a
thing to be lightly accomplished. He
saw at a glance that Gerald could use his
hands. Thrashing him off-hand was one
thing, but a stand-up fight was rather too
undignified a proceeding at his age.
Mastering his rage with a mighty effort,
he exclaimed with a bitter sneer, " I congratulate
you upon having so thoroughly
acquired the habits of the class to which
you belong, but gentlemen don't settle
their differences in that fashion. Adieu,
Miss Dollie. I dare say Forrest will
find you by no means so coy with your
kisses."

Gerald started, and was about to rush
upon his cousin, but Dollie's hand upon
his arm restrained him. He made no

further answer than a contemptuous smile,
while Elliston, after one glance to gauge
the effects of his Parthian dart, stalked
angrily from the room.

CHAPTER XI.

GOING FOR THE GLOVES.

Elliston left the house in search of the
trap that was to convey him to the station
literally swelling with indignation. This
whelp of a boy seemed to confront him
at every turn, and, what was worse, to
checkmate him. From winning a big
stake to the buying of Cranley, or snatching
a kiss from Dollie Grey son, Gerald
was always in his way. He felt there
was nothing he would shrink from to
work woe to his cousin, but Gerald was
under the wing of Lord Whitby, and had
achieved a position besides of his own
that made him tolerably unassailable.

Still, as be bade the trainer good-bye, he
bethought him of a thorn to plant in
Gerald's breast.

Good-bye, Greyson," he said, "we
shall win the Cambridgeshire, never fear,
and winter in clover; but I've got one
hint to give you. I see that young Rockingham
is hanging round here after your
daughter. That will do her no good.
He was as wild as a hawk at college, and,
like all his stock, is pretty unscrupulous
with regard to women. A hint's enough
to a man of your experience. Lock up your
daughter, and hunt that young reprobate
off the premises. You'll find him kissing
her in the dining-room now, most likely,"
and before Greyson could reply Elliston
jumped into the trap and was gone.

This was too much in accord with his
own ideas not to make the trainer very
uncomfortable. He did not even know
that Gerald was at Riddleton, the note
that summoned him from the dining-room

relating only to the delivery of some
forage. As he strolled back to the house
across the grass-plot he mused rather
grimly over the unfortunate entanglement
of his daughter, and at last, happening
to raise his eyes, saw through
the open window the tableau Elliston had
so deftly painted to him. There was
Gerald in most lover-like attitude with his
arm round Dollie's waist, and unmistakeably
kissing her.

This was too much for Grey son's
equanimity. He dashed into the house,
and entered the dining-room abruptly.
Dollie made an attempt to extricate herself
from her lover's embrace on seeing
him, but Gerald held her fast.

Mr. Rockingham," said the trainer,
ki I'll have none of this. I told you so as
Jim Forrest, and I tell you so much more
strongly now I know who you are. I'll
not have my girl's head turned with your
nonsense. She may be but a giddy little

VOL. Ill O

simpleton, but she is my daughter, and all
I have got."

a Oh, father, hear me," cried Dollie,
for there was a touch of pathos in the
hard old man's voice that went to her
heart. " No, let me go to him, Gerald,"
but her lover still held her tight.

Go to your room at once," rejoined
Greyson, " and you, sir, don't attempt to
detain her. I will send you to the station,
but never let me catch you on Riddleton
Moor asrain.

Dollie at last twisted herself out of her
lover's embrace, and was about to rush
across to her father when Gerald caught
her wrist and exclaimed, u Stay. Mr.
Greyson, there's no harm in kissing the
girl you are pledged to marry. I have
promised to take Dollie for my wife if you
will give her to me."

Mighty pretty words," rejoined the
trainer roughly, " such as young gentlemen
of your class think it no harm to

pour into the ears of foolish girls beneath
them. Do you suppose for one instant
that your own people would allow you to
make such a marriage as that ? "

I know in a few months I shall be of
age, and that nobody will be able to prevent
me. Besides, Dollie will tell you
that she has already been welcomed as
my future wife by my mother and sister."

It's true, father, it is indeed; they
were most kind''

i ' And do you mean to tell me that they
knew that Dollie was the daughter of Bill
Grey son, the trainer ? "

Certainly, I do," replied Gerald;
just as much as they know that I am
Jim Forrest, the jockey."

For a minute or two Greyson stood
silently glancing from one to the other of
them. He could not quite take in the
reality of the situation. It seemed to
him almost absurd to talk of a Rockingham
marrying a daughter of his ; and

yet, surely, if there were nothing in it,
Mrs. Rockingham would hardly have welcomed
Dollie, as the girl declared she had.
Pooh ! they were young in the ways of
the world ; and because Mrs. Rockingham
had been good-natured and kind to his
little girl, and perhaps smiled at their
philandering, they had both jumped to
the conclusion that she would be pleased
to receive her as a daughter-in-law. And
then Elliston's parting admonition recurred
to him. Yes; that was much more
likely that young Rockingham was just
amusing himself with a flirtation.

Mr. Greyson, will you give me
Dollie ? " said Gerald after some length,
and still holding the girl's hand.

u 1 think not. I'll take some little time
to consider ; but I don't believe any good
would come of such a marriage. Mr.
Elliston warned me just before he started
against letting you make a fool of my
girl."

"Cuthbert Elliston!" exclaimed Gerald
the scoundrel ! — what has he to do with
it?"

He's one of your family anyhow. It
was he told me you were here, and that I
should find you both billing and cooing
in the parlour."

And did he tell you that I nearly
knocked him down for his impudent behaviour
to your daughter ? " interposed
Gerald, hotly.

What ! " exclaimed Greyson, sharply.

Indeed," said Dollie ; "Mr. Elliston
was very rude to me, and I was very glad
when Gerald jumped in at the window."

I only know," said Gerald, " I found
my precious cousin — who has a wife of
his own, remember — making the most
violent love to Dolly, very much to her
annoyance; and that I did my best to
knock him down — and all but succeeded."

Ah ! you struck him ? " said Greyson

198 FROM POST TO FINISH.

between his set teeth; "that was well
done' he added after a pause.

And now, Mr. Greyson, will you give
me Dollie ? " said Gerald.

Go to your room, girl; and leave
Mr. Rockingham and me to talk matters
over. You needn't be afraid, child; we're
not going to quarrel."

Dollie made no reply j but, with a
bright smile at her lover, tripped out of
the dining-room.

Now, Greyson," said Gerald, "I have
come here for a good long talk with you
about more things than one. First, I am in
thorough earnest about wishing to marry
your daughter. T have taken her to see
my mother and sister ; they both like her,
and will be very glad to welcome her into
the family, of which, remember, I am now
the head. As for my rascally cousin, he
ruined my father, and would do the same
by me if he could. He has nothing to do
with our concerns further than to pay us

some, at all events, of what he owes us. I
can't marry Dollie yet for some months,
at all events ; I think it best to stick to
my profession closely for a little longer,
so you will have time to consider the
subject. That's finished for the present.
Of course we shall correspond ; it's no use
your saying we shan't, because in these
days that never prevents young people,
who are fond of one another, doing it —
promotes duplicity, nothing more. Now,
is the Dancer still yours ? "

Yes, worse luck; and likely to continue
so. I had hopes when I saw they
were backing him a bit for the Cambridgeshire
that somebody might be disposed
to make a bid of some sort ; but
nobody speaks."

u And he's quite well ? "

"Well. Of course he is. Ask Dollie,
she gallops him every morning. The
beggar never looked better."

You don't mean to say you put her

up on that queer-tempered animal?" exclaimed
Gerald.

"No," replied Greyson, "but she took
advantage of my absence to put herself
up ; and there's no nonsense about it,
he goes better with her than he ever did
with any one, not barring yourself, Mr.
Rockingham."

Good ! Now, Greyson, the Cambridgeshire
betting about the Dancing
Master, as far as it has gone, represents
pretty well my commission. Somebody,
of course, has been clever enough to risk
a little about the thing on spec, with the
easiest intentions as to what he was
speculating in. Some one always does.
But I have got on the Dancer to win a
rattling stake as it is, and, if I find him
what I hope, can easily get a good bit
more at a longish price. You mean to
run him, of course. With seven stone
twelve the race is a gift to him if he
chooses."

Just so, if he chooses, but he never
does choose. No, he's not worth sending
to Newmarket, Mr. Rockingham ; and
what's more, we've got another here we
think quite good enough to serve our
turn."

Yes, I know. Cuthbert has backed
Caterham to win him a lot of money, but
my impression is that the Dancer is a
tremendous horse when he runs kind.
He'd beat Caterham far enough at even
weights, though the latter's a good horse,
too. You've not promised he shan't go to
Newmarket, have you ? "

No, certainly not. I told Mr. Ellis-ton
I had no intention of sending him
there ; but he knows the horse is for sale,
and if any one buys him I can't be
answerable for what his new owner may
think fit to do."

But still he's your horse. You're
quite within your right in beating Mr.

Elliston, if you can, for a good stake like
the Cambridgeshire."

I tell you, sir, he's no good. With
his temper, he'd never try in a big field
such as there will be for that race."

Recollect," replied Gerald, impressively,
"the only time the Dancer ever
won I rode him. Recollect how he recognised
my voice the other day in the stable.
I don't pretend my riding had anything
to do with his winning, but simply the
horse knew me, and did for me what he
has done for nobody else."

There may be something in that,"
rejoined the trainer, musingly, " but hang
it, I don't like interfering with stable
tactics."

Then," said Gerald, " I ask you to
choose between my interests and Cuthbert
Elliston's, between the interests of the
man who insulted your daughter and
the interests of the man who hopes to
marry "

Greyson started as if stung.

"Yes," he rejoined, in stern, resolute
tones, " that settles it. If I can beat him

fairly for the Cambridgeshire, by I

will. Mr. Rockingham, play your game
as you like. You can depend upon me,
bar accidents, to hand you over the
Dancing Master when the saddling-bell
rings as fit as hands can make him, with
no other orders than win if you can.
There's my hand, sir."

The two exchanged hand-grips, and
then the trainer said :

Tell me it's not flying in the face of
your own people, and will do you no
harm with them, and, after the Cambridgeshire,
if you ask me for Dollie
again, Mr. Rockingham, I'll give her you,
win or lose."

That's a bargain, Mr. Greyson," said
Gerald, as they once more shook hands.

And now I'll send Dollie to you. She
can tell you more about the Dancer than

I can, but I do believe this, that he's a
good deal better than Caterham if he will
try," and with this dubious assurance the
trainer left the room.

Dollie was not very far off, and reappeared
speedily at her father's summons.

It's all right, darling'' cried Gerald,
joyously, as he clasped the girl in his
arms and kissed her. is Your father's
behaved like a trump. I'm to marry
you after the Cambridgeshire ; and the
Dancer's to win it ; and I'm going to land
money enough to buy back Cranley Chase.
I'm pretty sure Whitby don't really want
it, and would let me have it for what he
gave for it. I'm a great favourite with
the old lord."

Oh, Gerald ! if you could ! How
proud I should feel then that it was at
my recommendation you turned jockey ! "

You may feel proud of that as it is,
sweet," replied her lover; "but your
father tells me you've been riding the

Dancer, and that he goes tolerably quiet
with you."

61 Yes : he kicks and plunges, of course,
and he sulks a bit with me at starting ;
but he goes very well with me when weare
fairly off ; and, Gerald, I never was
on the back of such a galloper! "

Do you find him pull much ? "

eC No ; and that's been the mistake with
him all along. He has a rather delicate
mouth, and likes to have his head. If
you pull at him with that heavy bit and
bridoon bridle they put on him he gets
mad, and then you know neither man nor
horse ever feels pain. I have gone on
riding him in that way, but then you
know how light a woman's hand is.
Gerald, dear, take my advice, and put a
plain snaffle on him for the Cambridgeshire."


I daresay you're right, Dollie. Your
father, though he hadn't quite mastered
the theory, had always an inkling of it.

c Leave him alone were his orders before
the Two Thousand; 'he may win the race
himself, but you won't make him.' As a
stable-boy, I rode him strictly according
to orders, only too anxious no fault should
be found with me in that respect; as a
jockey, I might have had ideas of my own
on the subject, and, hard as I always try
to carry out my employer's instructions,
there are times when to stick to them
seems to be throwing the race away, and
sometimes actually is. Neither owner,
trainer, nor any one else can foresee the
turns-up in a race, nor the way in which
it will be run. It may be run all false,
and a clever jockey, who knows his business,
sees his one chance is to throw all
orders to the wind and rely on his own
judgment. You are told to wait, but
know amongst your antagonists there's
one with a terrible turn of speed, and
there's nothing will make the running.
Your only chance is to do it yourself, and

stand the abuse if you're unsuccessful. But
forgive me, Dollie ; I am delivering quite
a sermon on my own profession ; it's a
profession I love, and can't help getting a
little enthusiastic about."

"And do you think I'm not proud of
the name you've made in it ? I believe I
think more of Jim Forrest, if possible,
than Gerald Rockingham."

And Gerald's not jealous of Jim," replied
her lover, laughing. " And now,
dearest, it's time I was off; but mind,
Dollie, you must be there to see me win
the Cambridgeshire. Tell your father it
must be so. I shan't see you again till
we meet at Newmarket, and then, hey !
for winning the last big handicap of the
season and Cranley Chase."

Here's the Cambridgeshire and Cranley
Chase ! " cried Dollie, snatching a
wine-glass from the luncheon-table and
waving it over her head. " Vive laguerre

! and success to the sky-blue and
white."

Good-bye, dearest," said Gerald, ashe
once more clasped his fiancee in his
arms ; u and God grant your toast may
prove true. Take care of the Dancer forme
; and mind you are there in the
Houghton week."

One more kiss, and Gerald Rockingham
was gone, and Dollie, dropping into a
chair, was soon lost in the sweetest of
dreamy reveries.

CHAPTER XII.

AT THE RUTLAND ARMS.

The Monday of the Houghton Meeting
has come at last, and the week gives
promise of capital sport. Never had
the betting on the Cambridgeshire been
heavier, and never perhaps had the early
backers experienced more discomfitures.
Favourite after favourite was sent to the
right about, either from having failed to
stand a preparation, or in consequence of
owners finding themselves so forestalled
by the rapacity of the public that it was
impossible to obtain a fair and reasonable
price about their horses. This naturally
gave fresh courage to the bookmakers,

VOL. III. P

and the big handicap could boast now of a
very elastic market.

The principal feature on the Heath on
Monday between the intervals of racing
was a strong desire to back the Dancing
Master, a thing that astonished Messrs.
Elliston and Pearson not a little. They
could not make out exactly who was
doing it. Mr. Johnson, no doubt, was
picking up the long odds at every favourable
opportunity, but there were more
Richmond in the field than one, and
before the racing finished and the crowd
flocked back to spruce little Newmarket,
the Dancing Master had been brought
from the forty-to-one division to something
like over half the price. All sorts
of rumours were current about him. It
was reported that there had been a great
trial at Riddleton, and that Caterham, one
of the prominent favourites, had been well
beaten by his stable companion. That
the horse was not known ^ have arrived

was nothing. Bill Greyson and his string
were not expected till the afternoon, and
it was quite likely might not arrive till
the next day, the Cambridgeshire being
set for Wednesday's card. Ere they
reached the Rutland, Elliston and his
partner had learnt, upon unimpeachable
authority, that Greyson had arrived, and
brought the Dancing Master with him as
well as Caterham.

Over their dinner that evening the two
indulged in various conjectures as to the
meaning of this freak of old Bill's. The
most probable solution in their eyes was
that he had sold the horse, and that his
new owner had thrown the commission
into the market. Well, they agreed it
was not likely to signify much

Some new young one anxious to
distinguish himself by winning a big race
first time of asking," said Elliston. " He's
likely to pay dearly for his whistle ; what
with the money the Ring take out of him

P "2

over it, and the price old Greyson has
probably put that worthless brute into
him at, if he don't have an expensive race
on Wednesday I'm much mistaken."

Greyson, of course, will be up to see
us about breakfast time tomorrow. It's
no use speculating about who he's made a
fool of over the Dancing Master ; let's
go down to the Rooms and see what's
doing''

All right ! " replied Elliston, as he lit
a fresh cigar, " come along."

Business at the Rooms was in a languid
state when the parties left them. A good
many of the leading bookmakers were
there discussing the events of the day,
but none of the leading dons of the racing
world had as yet put in an appearance.
The former were apparently no little
exercised in their minds about the mysterious
apparition of the Dancing Master
in the betting-market. It was now known
that the horse had arrived, but in whose

interest he was running, and who was to
ride him, were matters that seemed to
trouble the minds of the leading magnates
of the ring no little. Elliston was at once
hailed with proffers of odds against the
Dancing Master, but the refusal of both
himself and Pearson to invest on his
chance seemed once more to puzzle the
very suspicious members of Tattersall's —
sensitive ever from long experience to
dynamite mines of this nature exploded
upon them at the last moment. True, he
had shown himself thoroughly unreliable
on account of temper for at least two
years, but he had proved himself, and
very unexpectedly too, a great horse upon
one occasion, and the brethren of the
mystic circle are bound to keep such facts
within their memories, or break.

But soon after ten Sir Marmaduke,
accompanied by Farrington and two other
of his friends, strolled in, and the listlessness
that had rather characterised the

proceedings was put aside. So far there
had been very little business doing,
nothing except desultory talk had been
the outcome of the evening. But the
baronet had startled the Ring too often
not to make his advent a matter of
interest. They knew very well that he
had experienced a most disastrous year,
and that his own stable was under one of
those periodical blights that such establishments
suffer from. But Sir Armature
was rather catholic in his taste for
speculation, and by no means confined
his operations to backing his own horses.
Heavy loser though he undoubtedly was
on the season, yet he had enjoyed gleams
of sunshine, and had made the very Ring
open its eyes with the daring plunges he
had made on some of Lord Whitby's
good things'' When he laid five to
one in thousands on a bolt of that nobleman's
for the New Stakes at Ascot, the
racing world marvelled; but when he

followed it up by betting seven thousand
to four on the winner of the Gold Cup,
the old hands shook their heads, and said
that, though in these two instances fortune
had favoured him, yet a Nemesis would
surely overtake one who wooed the fickle
goddess so rashly.

Dancing Master for the Cambridgeshire?"
he said quietly to one of the
boldest of the book making fraternity.

Twenty to one, Sir Marmaduke. Do
you want it to money ? " was the reply.

I'll take it in thousands," rejoined the
baronet.

Can't do it, Sir Marmaduke. I haven't
so much money left to lay. Shall I put
down twenty monkeys? Ten thousand
to five hundred is a nice bet."

The baronet nodded, and almost immediately
afterwards the languid voice of
Captain Farrington was heard inquiring
after the Dancing Master, and he, too,
was accommodated upon similar terms.

It was speedily apparent that the little
coterie of whom Sir Marmaduke was the
guiding star were all intent on backing
this horse, and the odds shortened rapidly.
Still the fielders continued to lay the
lessening price. They recalled how these
very men had put faith in the Dancing
Master at Ascot, and how he had proved
but a broken reed to them then. However,
sheer weight of money tells in the
betting-ring just as it does on the Stock
Exchange, and u the bulls" upon this
occasion brought the Dancing Master to
ten to one taken freely before they closed
the operations.

What do you think of all this ? " said
Pearson, as the pair strolled home to the
Rutland.

u Think ? " answered Elliston, irritably;
I think that Sir Marmaduke means to
have another shy with the Dancing Master;
that though he sent him back to
Biddleton he never gave up his control

of the horse, and that all Bill Greyson's
story about his being in the sale-list was
gammon, or at all events premature. I
shall give that old villain a pretty stiff
corner of my mind tomorrow."

I wonder who rides ? " said Pearson.

Oh ! Blackton, no doubt. He's Sir
Marmaduke's first jockey, and will probably
declare three or four pounds overweight.
But he didn't do much with the
horse in the Hunt Cup."

No," said Pearson, as he rang for a
brandy and seltzer, that peaceful haven,
the Rutland, being at length attained,
but I've an unpleasant presentiment that
cursed grey will trouble us somehow in
the big race on Wednesday. He'll knock
our horse down, or run away from the
lot, as he did in the Guineas two years
ago. By the way, I hope young Rockingham
won't have the mount."

"No fear. He quarrelled with Sir
Marmaduke about something, and hasn't

worn his colours the last year or more.
Just the young beggar's luck. He got
Whitby's riding instead. Left the sinking
ship just in time to join another that had
both royal and stun sails set."

' And the lad knows how to follow his
luck'' said Pearson, moodily. "If by
any fluke that boy's on the Dancing
Master I shall cover my money by backing
him for a little''

"You always did funk," sneered Elliston
; "but I don't think, unless the
horse is, as I guess, still Sir Marmaduke's,
old Grey son will send him to the post
after all."

"He will," rejoined Pearson. "He
aren't bring him to Newmarket and not
run him. Now I'm off to bed. Goodnight."


The attorney was up and out on the
Heath betimes to see and hear what was
doing, and astonished his partner on his
return not a little with the intelligence

that Jim Forrest was to ride the Dancing
Master.

"At least, that's what I heard this
morning, and everybody's puzzled to
know who's pulling the strings. He was
out this morning and looked fit as fiddles,
but showed a deal of temper till Forrest
got on him. He did a nice canter with
him, and went fairly kind. Grey son's
coming up to see us about ten."

And Caterham ? "

Went a good strong gallop, and looks
fit to run for a kingdom. Greyson says
he never was better."

They were still dawdling over their
cigars and the card of the day, when the
trainer was announced, and at once proceeded
to give due account of his charges,
all of whom he pronounced emphatically
thoroughly fit to meet their engagements,
especially the Cambridgeshire crack,
Caterham. " Though," he added, " they
tell me, in consequence of what took

place at the Rooms last night, that old
grey of mine looks like passing him in
the betting''

Oh, I want to speak to you about
that' said Elliston, sharply. u Has Sir
Marmaduke anything to do with the
horse now? "

u Nothing whatever, sir."

Then what the devil did you send
that satanic-tempered brute here for,
after telling me you didn't intend to ? "

"I changed my mind. My horse happens
to be very well, and I don't see why
I shouldn't have a cut in for a stake
worth over two thousand," replied Grey-son,
doggedly. " You've no call to complain
about Caterham, he's just about as
fit as I know how to make him. It's not
very likely the Dancer will beat you, but
I warn you he can if he likes."

a And pray may I ask whether it is
from your inspiration that Sir Marmaduke

and his friends are plunging on the
Dancer in this manner ? "

No, sir, I honestly don't know what
has induced Sir Marmaduke and his
friends to back the horse in the way I
hear they did last night. But it was from
no hint of mine. He'll run, but I don't
much believe in him."

And suppose I tell you that I particularly
wish that he should not run. What
then?"

"I shall be sorry to disoblige you, Mr.
Elliston, but I've brought him to Newmarket,
and he'll run all the same'' replied
Greyson, quietly.

A plant, by Heaven ! " cried Elliston,
fiercely. "My horse, I presume, has been
sacrificed to yours."

"Nothing of the sort, sir," replied
Greyson. " Yours is as well as ever he
was in his life. The two have never been
put together, and it's sheer guess-work on
my part that the grey's the best."

And is that young whelp, Forrest, to
ride the Dancer ? '' snarled Elliston.

Mr. Rockingham is to ride ray horse.
I don't know about his being a young
whelp, or a young anything else," rejoined
Greyson, pretty sharply. " I do
know that he's about the best jockey of
the day, and that if he gets well away,
and the Dancer runs kind, he'll spread-eagle
his field tomorrow."

' With those views we may say, I
think, Pearson, that he trains no more for
us?"

No," said the attorney, with a malicious
grin, "and, if the Dancing Master
does win the Cambridgeshire, perhaps Mr.
Greyson will have cause to wish he had
yielded to wiser counsels."

I've not forgotten that I'm your
debtor, Mr. Pearson, but I'll take my
chance. I daresay, if it comes to the
worst, I shall find friends to assist me in

meeting my liabilities. Good morning,
gentlemen."

U A case of mutiny, by Jove!" exclaimed
Elliston, as the door closed behind
the trainer.

u It's your own fault in great measure,"
said Pearson, savagely. " If you hadn't
given Greyson that cursed grey colt we
should have been masters of the situation."


And intend to be so still. But do
you honestly think there's a chance of
the Dancing Master beating us ? "

u Yes," replied Pearson, " I do. I
wouldn't back the horse, he's so
thoroughly uncertain ; but I agree with
Greyson, that he's a great horse when he
likes, probably the best we ever had at
Riddleton. It's an old axiom — never
overlook an animal's best form. I never
saw the Two Thousand easier won, and,
remember, subsequent running showed
that he had a good field behind him. I

wish heartily that he wasn't going to
start."

As he spoke the door opened softly,
and Dollie, who was in search of her
father, peeped ina

We never had such a chance," continued
the attorney, " and it would be
too provoking, after having got on to win
such a big stake so cleverly, to have the
prize snatched from our grasp by that
perverse-tempered brute. I can't imagine
what has made Grey son so contumacious.
There's something behind I don't understand."


Cuthbert Elliston did not think it
necessary to enlighten his partner about
that little contretemps up at Biddleton,
though he had no doubt that his folly
there had caused this combination against
him. Dollie had no doubt told her father
what had occurred, and Gerald had persuaded
the trainer to repay the affront
put on his daughter in this fashion.

66 That blackguard young villain," he
muttered, " planned this little scheme for
my discomfiture."

"It don't much matter what's the cause,
Sam'' he said at last. " If Grey son won't
take orders he must take the consequences.
I'll take care the Dancing Master don't
start. Listen to me," and he lowered his
voice, so that Dollie could no longer
catch what he was saying.

But the girl had heard quite enough.
Closing the door noiselessly behind her,
she sped down the passage like a lapwing,
with a view to carrying this piece of intelligence
as quickly to her lover as
mie:ht be.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XIII.

GETTING AT THE FAVOURITE.

Dollie hurried away from the Rutland
with Cuthbert Elliston's words ringing
in her ears, " I'll take care the Dancing
Master doesn't start," and she
felt certain that he would, if possible,
make good his word. She had caught buta
fragment of their conversation, but it
was quite enough to make her thoroughly
understand the situation. It was evident
from Pearson's speech that the two men
hoped to win a very large stake over
Caterham, and equally clear that they
were afraid of the Dancing Master upsetting
their plans, and were much disconcerted
by his unexpected appearance at

Newmarket. She knew her father was
to see them that morning — indeed, had
expected to find him with them. From
Elliston's words she thought it was pretty
clear that he not only had seen them, but
had refused to strike the Dancing Master
out of the Cambridgeshire. " If Grey son
won't take orders he must take consequences
: " that surely could only mean
that her father had declined to obey his
patrons on this point, and Dollie was
much too conversant with turf history not
to know that when Ellis ton said he would
take care the horse should not start foul
play of some kind was contemplated.

Were all Gerald's hopes to be frustrated
in this wise ? No ! Something must be
done to prevent it ! What villainy was
meditated ? She must see Gerald at once.
He would know what was best to be
done. It was clear there was no time to
be lost ; but where was she to find him ?
She did not know where he lodged, and

Q2

it was getting time for the clay's racing
to commence. Once on the heath, he
might be so engaged as to leave no opportunity
for speaking with him the whole
afternoon. And yet she felt sure that her
news would brook no delay in the telling.
At last she bethought herself of the stables
where her father's charges were standing,
and made her way thither.

The first person she encountered in the
yard was Joe Butters, who, seated on an
upturned stable bucket, was solacing himself
with a tankard of mild ale and a
little tobacco, previous to commencing his
duties on the course.

Where is Mr. Rockingham?" inquired
Dollie. " I must speak with him at once,
Joe! Do you think you could find him''

Well, miss," replied Butters, as he
leisurely rose from his seat, " Mr. Rockingham
cantered up to the heath about
ten minutes ago. He said he had to see
Lord Whitby before the racing began."

u But you are going up with the horses,
Joe?"

Yes, miss, in about half-an-hour.
We've nothing in the first two races."

u Well, of course you'll see Mr. Rockingham."


I don't know about to speak to. You
see, Jim — I mean Mr. Rockingham — don't
ride for us as a rule, though I do hear
he's to ride the Dancer tomorrow. My
word, Miss Dollie, but we ought to set
the bells ringing at Riddleton this time.
Why, if the Dancer only tries, our pair
ought to finish first and second for the
Cambridgeshire . ' '

And which do you like the best,
Joe ? " inquired the girl, eagerly.

Well, I've got my pound on Cater-ham.
You see he is a horse you can
depend upon. If you was only going to
ride the Dancer yourself, Miss Dollie, I
fancy he would win far enough."

Never mind that. You shall have a

pound on the Dancer with me. He ran
straight enough with Mr. Rockingham
before, Joe ; and mind, he will again tomorrow.
Now listen to what I've got to
say to you. If you cannot see Mr. Rockingham
yourself, you must manage to get
this message sent to him : say that I wish
to see him on a matter of the greatest
importance as soon as possible."

All right, miss; I'll manage it somehow.
Mr. Rockingham will know where
you are, I suppose?"

Yes ; he has only to ask father.
Don't forget — of the greatest importance,
remember." And, with an emphatic little
nod, .Dollie walked quickly away to prepare
for the heath.

Mr. Greyson had chartered one of those
mysterious ramshackle vehicles to convey
Mrs. Greyson and Dollie to the heath
which seems almost peculiar to Newmarket
; though the racecourse fly has a
family resemblance ail over the country.

One peculiarity about them is that they
occasionally have an equine celebrity,
grievously fallen from his high estate,
between the shafts. I remember seeing
in a Stourbridge trap of this description
a horse whose parents had both taken
classic honours at Epsom : his sire had
won the Derby, his mother the Oaks ; and
similar glories had been expected from
him in his youth. And this, after all, was
the termination of his career !

The racing proved, as is often the case
at Newmarket on an off-day, of a very
tame description ; and Dollie awaited the
advent of her lover with scarce-controlled
impatience. The one feature of the afternoon's
sport was when, in intervals between
the races, the Cambridgeshire was
introduced, a growing desire to back the
Dancing Master was evident ; and it was
whispered about that a strong commission
was in the market, although not apparently
emanating from the stable. Ellis

ton and his partner were more puzzled
than ever at the aspect of affairs.

At length Gerald cantered up on his
hack, and raised his hat amidst the admiring
stare of the surrounding crowd ; for
the " gentleman jockey" was by this
time not only well known but immensely
popular. Quickly it was buzzed about
that the ladies "Jim Forrest was a-talking
to" were the wife and daughter of Bill
Greyson, who owned the now first favourite
for the Cambridgeshire ; for Lord
Whitby's heavy commission, on the top
of the big investments of Sir Marmaduke
and his friends, had at length placed the
Dancing Master at the head of the poll ;
and it was by this time no secret that
the gentleman jockey," as his admirers
delighted to call him, would ride that
erratic animal.

"Ten thousand pardons, Dollie, dearest;
but I only got your message an hour or so
ago, and am so busy I couldn't get here

before. As it is I have had to bucket my
hack unmercifully. Good-day, Mrs. Grey-son,
the sport is not of much account this
afternoon, but, if we get the black and
crimson home first tomorrow, it won't bea
dull week, you know, altogether."

And you will, won't you, Mr. Rockingham
? "

I hope so," he replied, laughing.
And now, Dollie," he continued, lowering
his voice, " what is it ? I've no time
to lose, as I must get back to ride Grand
Turk in the next race."

There's something wrong about the
Dancing Master, Gerald. I've overheard
Cuthbert Elliston say that he would take
care he didn't start."

u Ha! — who to?" inquired .Rockingham,
eagerly.

u To Mr. Pearson."

u And there was no one else present ;
and they don't know you overheard
them ? "

There were only those two in the
room, and I feel sure they don't know I
was within earshot."

This must be seen to as soon as
possible. Both Elliston and Pearson are
on the course, I have seen them. Meet
me at the stables as soon as you can. I
shall ride straight back after the next race,
as I have no mount in the concluding one.
I have proved a little too much for Cuthbert
once or twice already, and I shouldn't
wonder if I do again. Good-bye, Dollie,
for the present. On you go, Captain
Barclay," and Gerald just pressed his
hack with his knees, and the docile brute
swung into a hand-canter at once, and in
obedience to his master's hand made his
way to the starting-post for the Bretby
Stakes Course."

Gerald called his hack after the famous
pedestrian, saying he was always doing
his 1,000 miles over the Heath after the
manner of his godfather.

Dollie found little difficulty in persuading
her mother to leave the course before
the last race. It was the good lady's first
visit to Newmarket, and to tell the truth
she was not very favourably impressed
with it. She found it dull. At York she
had lots of friends and acquaintances to
chat with, which to her was half the fun
of a race-meeting. Then the perpetual
change of course bothered her, and she
came to the conclusion that they managed
these things infinitely better in the North,
so that she was quite willing to drive
home to tea as soon as her daughter
suggested it.

Her mother once comfortably deposited
in their lodgings, Dollie immediately slipped
down to the stables, where she found
Gerald awaiting her, and at once told him
her story.

Gerald listened very attentively, and
when she had finished, said :

There can be no doubt about it.

They have, I know, backed Caterham to
win a very large stake, and the appearance
of the Dancer on the scene has
frightened them. Your father has most
likely told them, if he chooses to run kind
the grey will beat them, and also declined
to scratch the horse. Elliston undoubtedly
means foul play of some sort. I shall
sleepy in the stable, and watch the Dancer's
box myself, to-night, and take care that
either Butters or myself are with him till
the Cambridgeshire's over. Now run
home, and say nothing to any one of what
you have overheard. Good-bye, dearest ;
I should have come up to spend the evening,
but don't expect to see anything of
me now till after the race.'

No sooner had Dollie disappeared than
Gerald went in search of Butters. That
worthy was speedily found in the immediate
vicinity, discussing the race with
some of his own class, and giving it as
his opinion that one of the Riddleton pair

would win. Further pressed upon the
subject, he informed his hearers that he
preferred Caterham himself, but that Mr.
Forrest was the greatest horseman of the
day, and, with the Dancing Master in his
hands, there was no knowing what might
happen.

Just as he delivered himself of this
oracular opinion, the gentleman jockey
himself appeared, and was immediately an
object of great attraction to the little
knot of stablemen to whom Mr. Butters
had been holding forth.

"Here, Joe, I want you," exclaimed
Gerald.

All right, Mr. Rockingham. What is
it ? " replied Butters, not a little gratified
to show the intimate terms he was on
with the great man to the little circle he
was leaving. A bit of nobis common
to people of infinitely higher station than
Joe Butters.

I want to see the horses at once, Joe.
Have you got the key of the stable ? "

I've one, and Mr. Grey son another,"
replied Butters, as he led the way thither
without further comment.

They entered the stable, which consisted
of four loose boxes and a couple of roomy
stalls. One of these latter contained a
considerable amount of clean straw.
The other was empty save for a large
corn-bin which stood in its entrance. The
boxes were all tenanted by Greyson's
charges.

u This is the Dancer's box, isn't it?"
said Gerald, as he walked towards the
one at the far end from the door.

Yes ; and Caterham's next him."

Gerald opened the box and went in.
The horse looked round, and gave a low
whinny of recognition. He was evidently
in the very bloom of condition — his coat
shone like satin, and his eye, clear and
bright, denoted that the animal was in

perfect health. Gerald cast a keen glance
at the horse's legs, and saw they were
clean and flat, such as gladden the heart
of a trainer. He walked up to the Dancer
and examined him closely. He was
apparently satisfied with the result of his
examination, for as he closed the box-door
behind him he muttered, u All's safe sofar."


Now, Joe," he continued aloud, "what
you and I have got to do is this — One or
other of us must never leave the horse till
after tomorrow's race. I've just heard,
on good authority, that they are determined
to get at him."

What ! Do you mean to say," said
Butters, "that any one intends to nobble
the Dancer ? "

So I hear, Joe; but not if we know

it."

Why, who's going to do it ? "

Never mind that," replied Gerald.

The horse is all right. Now, you and
I will keep watch here to-night, and take
very good care they don't. If my information
is correct we shall see who they
are. It is gratifying in one way, at all
events. It shows they think as highly of
his chance as I do. Now be off and get
something to eat as quick as you can, and
then come back to me."

On Butters relieving guard Gerald
slipped out on a similar errand, and on his
return said, " Now, Joe, we shall have to
pass the night here. You can lie down
amongst the straw and go to sleep. I can
trust you to stick to me in a row, but you
know, Joe, I can't trust you to keep
awake''

Well, Mr. Rockingham, I've a way
of dropping off, and the worst of it is I
sleep that heavy that I take a good deal
of waking."

All right ! you go and lie down.

Very little sleep does for me, and I'll get
that towards morning. In the meanwhile,
I'll keep watch."

That the spirit may be willing but the
flesh weak is a very world-worn axiom,
and to no one did it apply more forcibly
than to Mr. Butters. He would spare
himself in no wise to secure success and
glory to Riddleton, but in the matter of
watchfulness and abstinence he was frail.
He could not keep awake by night nor
abstain from the flesh-pots by day. He
sighed over his somnolency and craving
for pastry, and shuddered at the sight of
a weighing-machine, but he knew his
failings, and that to wrestle with them
was beyond him. It was with a sigh of
relief he heard the role assigned to him,
and received his orders,

You can depend upon me, Mr. Rockingham,"
said Joe, as he nestled down
amongst the straw. "I ant good, perhaps,
at keeping my eyes open, but I am

VOL. III. R

all there when I am wanted. You can
depend upon me, Mr. Rockingham. I'm
all there, all, all," and here a low snore
terminated Mr. Butters's protestations of
fealty.

Gerald seated himself on the corn-bin,
and commenced his vigil. With the big
stake he had on the morrow, and accustomed
to do with but little sleep, he felt
no inclination to close his eyes. Could
his cousin be such a scoundrel as actually
to meditate laming or poisoning the
Dancing Master, or had he such confidence
in his old influence over Greyson
as to feel sure that he could persuade him
to scratch the horse ? No, his first impression
was right. Greyson had doubtless
declined to do that, and Elliston had
resolved to disable the horse before the
race. Would he attempt this himself ?
Hardly. He doubtless could lay his hand
upon plenty of instruments to do his bidding
if they were only well paid for it.



Then his thoughts reverted upon the race
tomorrow, and how he should ride it.
Yes," he muttered, " he's a free horse,
and runs best in front. He's thrown in
as far as the weight goes, and if he does
his best I'm afraid of nothing. I'll come
right through and strangle the lot'' Suddenly
there was a slight glimmer of light
beneath the bottom of the door, and a low
grating sound, as of some one softly trying
the lock,

A skeleton key'' said Gerald to himself,
as he slipped quietly off the corn-bin,
and crouched down behind it.

The door opened, and two men entered ;
the first carried a dark lantern, the slide
of which he drew cautiously back : the
second, a short, pursy man, had a twitch
in one hand, and a short stick, marvellously
like a heavy office ruler, in the
other.

Hold the lantern," said Elliston, in a
low whisper. " If I get the twitch on.

R2

I'll make him shin-sore artistically; if not,
I must lame him clumsily with one blow.
Come on, it's the far box''

The two stole along towards the Dancing
Master's box, and, as they did so,
Gerald rose from behind the corn-bin and
crept stealthily after them. Absorbed in
their own villainy they failed to hear his
cautious footsteps. Elliston's hand was
on the latch of the box, Pearson just raising
the lantern to assist his partner, when
Gerald exclaimed quietly, " Drop that,
Mr. Elliston."

For a second or two the confederates
were so disconcerted by discovery that
they stood paralysed and speechless ; then
with a savage execration Elliston rushed
upon his cousin, and, before Gerald had
time to jump back, struck him across the
face with the twitch.

Here, Joe — Joe — help ! " shouted
young Rockingham, as he grappled
fiercely with his assailant.

But the attorney was now quite alive to
the exigencies of the situation; it was quite
clear to him that to disable Gerald and
escape as speedily as might be was now the
only chance of averting most unpleasant
consequences. He dodged for a second or
two round the two struggling men, and
was about to aim a heavy blow at Gerald,
when Butters, plunging into the fray,
caused him to look to himself, and the
short heavy stick descended sharply upon
Joe's cranium, instead of young Rockingham's,
stretching the former senseless on
the ground. At this juncture Gerald
wrenched himself clear of his antagonist,
and immediately took advantage of his
position to commence out-fighting, and
administer a sharp left-hander between
the eyes that sent Elliston reeling against
the sides of Caterham's box. Taking in
the state of things at once, Gerald sprang
upon the attorney, and, before Pearson
was quite aware of the attack, had

snatched the stick from his hand. There
was no time to be lost ; Pearson threw
down the lantern and made for the door,
which his confederates had already
gained. The diversion was successful ; in
his anxiety to possess himself of the
lantern before harm should come from it,
for Pearson had cast it perilously near the
straw, Gerald neglected pursuit; and, when
that necessary act was accomplished, came
to the hasty conclusion that it was better
to succour Butters and soothe the horses,
already disturbed and uneasy at the unusual
noise, than follow the fugitives, both
of whom he had recognised.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

There was great excitement at Newmarket
in the course of the next morning,
for, despite the precautions of Gerald, it
had oozed out that there had been a
daring attempt to get at the favourite
during the night. Except to Greyson
Gerald had breathed no word of his
nocturnal adventure, and he had cautioned
Butters to be equally reticent. Joe had
held his tongue pretty fairly, still he but
lamely explained his cut head, and had
not the sang froid to emulate his companion's
coolness, who, if questioned about
how he came by the mark on his cheek,

replied curtly, " No matter'' In the
betting world, both in London and at
Newmarket, the rush to get on the Dancing
Master was tremendous, and even
staggered the Ring, cool as that philosophical
body ordinarily is. The outlays
of Sir Marmaduke and his followers,
coupled with that of Lord Whitby, completely
ran away with the public's own
judgment. Notwithstanding the many
disappointments the horse had occasioned
them, they argued that the astute baronet
would never have trusted him once more
unless upon unexceptionable grounds. It was
rumoured that, although running in Grey-son's
name, he was still Sir Marmaduke's
property, that he had run a tremendous
trial, and was 7 lb. in front of Caterham.
Then this was Lord Whitby's year; everything
he touched came off, and decades
of bad luck were being rapidly avenged.
Backers are notoriously superstitious, and
many of them much given to following

a lucky jockey, a lucky horse, a lucky
stable, or even coincidences. In 1869,
when the followers of the cherry and black
remembered that Sir Joseph Hawley had
won the Derby in the years 1858 and
1859, and that he had won it again in
1868, what wonder the 7 hardened their
hearts and looked upon it that he was
bound to win it twice running in each
decade, and dashed down their money on
unlucky Pero in consequence. Old horses
allotted light weights have many times
shown a marvellous recovery of their
juvenile form in the Cambridgeshire, and
for all these reasons combined the public
went wild about the Dancing Master, and
the fielders shortened their price hourly.

There were many old hands who had
entrusted their money to Caterham, and
many others whose eggs were in other
baskets, men who could not get over
the horse's uncertain temper, and were
themselves no believers in his ultimate

victory, yet they all agreed that such a
red-hot favourite they never remembered
in all their experience, and, though no
doubt there were exceptions they could
all point to, yet these red-hot favourites
generally won, or, at the worst, made their
opponents tremble in their shoes. So that
even those cool, unprejudiced race-goers
who were ranged against the self-willed
grey had conceived a great respect for
his chance. Then there was that now-announced
fact that he was to be the
gentleman jockey's mount ; and that at
once ranged all the women on his side ;
and if in our gradually advancing civilisation
there are people so innocent as to
believe that ladies of the present day, or,
for the matter of that, of many days past,
do not bet, the writer respects their simplicity,
and would not willingly disturb
such credulity.

I don't know quite what to think of
it all, Mr. Rockingham," said the trainer,

as Gerald looked in at the stables, previous
to cantering up to the course. "The
Dancer's a little fretful, and snatched at
his corn this morning in a fidgety, impatient
manner that looks bad for his
behaviour on the heath to-day. He's an
excitable horse, and last night's row in
his stable there's no doubt upset him a
bit. As for Caterham, he's as cool as
possible ; he's one of the level-tempered
sort that a salvo of artillery wouldn't disturb
except for the moment. Then how
are you yourself, sir? No sleep and a
rough-and-tumble fight ain't a good preparation
for a big race."

I'm all right, Grey son, never fear.
I'll ride as good a race to-day as ever I
did. Mind, put that heavy double-reined
snaffle on him as we settled; pet, coax,
and keep him as quiet as you can. Don't
saddle among the others, so as not to
excite him, and I shall do as I told you —
come right through with him ; so if you

don't see me playing follow-my-leader
before we've gone a quarter of a mile you
will understand the Dancer's got his own
opinion and I've had to give in to it."

Yes, Mr. Rockingham, you're right
after all. Though you're to ride your
own way to-day, it's coming back to pretty
much the orders I gave you more than
two years ago."

I shall ride identically the same way,
except that I understand the brute's
mouth better, thanks to Dollie. Now I'm
off."

And I trust to Heaven, Mr. Rockingham,
you'll win. I've borne the tyranny
of these men for years, and done more
dirty work for them than I care to think
about. Pearson has had me in his debt
so deep that I dare not disobey him, but
it was Mr. Elliston who gave the orders
always. I've broken with them now, and
must stand the consequences, but, after
last night's business, I should fancy they'll

be rather shy of law-courts, or aught
else."

You're not likely to see them to-day ;
and, win or lose, depend upon it they'll
never set foot on an English racecourse
again. When Lord Whitby and Sir Mar-mature
hear the story, Messrs. Elliston
and Pearson will get warning with regard
to Newmarket depend upon it. As for
the rest, Greyson, if we're beaten, you'll
worry through, never fear."

The trainer sat musing on the now, so
to say, historic corn-bin, behind which
Gerald had crouched the preceding night.
To think," he muttered, " that my
daughter should be going to marry a real
swell; and not only that, but the best
horseman in England, and one of the
finest, pluckiest young ones ever I ran
across, high or low. Damme, if ever
they persuade me into doing another
1 shunt.' Well," he continued, rising,
si it's getting about time we were off. Joe,

you may get 'em out and walk 'em up to
the Heath. If anybody's got two for the
big race which look better than mine, I
should just like to see 'em, that's all. I'm
just going across the yard to get my
hack, I shan't be five minutes ; but mind,
Joe, the Cambridgeshire horses you're
never to leave till their jockeys are in
the saddle."

Another quarter of an hour, and Grey-son
and his horses were leisurely wending
their way to the Heath. There, of course,
the wildest cards about the attempt " to
get at the favourite " were current. The
people just down from London were agog
to hear all about it, for the report had
been wired to town ; but, though there
were plenty of the sojourners at Newmarket
only too delighted to relate their
version of the affair, yet, as we know, the
actual particulars were known only to
three people, besides the delinquents,
namely, Gerald, Butters, and Grey son.

But, if the peril the favourite had been in
was involved in mystery, there was no
doubt in the public mind that it had
been successfully surmounted, and their
anxiety to be on what one of the boldest
of the sporting prophets had pronounced
" the best thing of the year,"
waxed stronger every hour. For the
backers had fairly tired out the fielders,
and the leading members of the Ring,
when asked, "What about the Dancing
Master?" replied, "they'd no more
money to lay." Still it had been a good
betting race from the first, and, though
there was no doubt the success of the
Dancing Master would take an immense
sum out of the Ring, there were a wonderful
lot of wholesome favourites that had
never even seen Newmarket, to assist
them on settling day, to say nothing of
various other public fancies, that money
would have to be paid over largely should
they go down before the favourite.

That the story of the attempt to get at
the favourite should reach the ears of such
strong supporters of his chance as Sir
Marmaduke and Captain Farrington was
only natural, and the baronet, upon arriving
on the Heath, at once sought Gerald,
with a view to hearing the true version of
the affair, and also to learn from the best
authority that the horse had really suffered
no injury. Sir Marmaduke had backed
the Dancing Master heavily, and it had
been in consequence of what Gerald
had told him. The baronet, with his
great chum, Captain Farrington, had no
sooner arrived at Newmarket than he was
told "Jim Forrest" wished to see him,
and Gerald then advised them both to try
and get back their Hunt Cup losses over
the Cambridgeshire. Sir Marmaduke at
first demurred, and vowed he would never
risk another shilling on that evil-tempered
grey. But Gerald implored them both

to have at all events a little on the Dancing
Master this time.

It's absurd, Sir Marmaduke, to say I
lost you the Leger a year ago, but I have
always bitterly regretted that I let my
absurd false pride stand in the way, and
begged off riding for you at Doncaster.
Blackton is quite as good a man as I,
and I've no doubt did the horse every
justice, but, you see, he's just one of those
queer brutes that might try for some one
he knew, and refuse to do so otherwise.
I've reason to think he'll run kind with
me. I know he's very well, and I'll
guarantee he's meant."

All right, Rockingham, I'll have a
quiet hundred on, and you'd better trust
him once more, Marm, to that extent,"
said Farrington.

And so at last it was settled that the
Dancing Master was to be once more
entrusted with what Farrington described
asa" modest century a-piece." Bat it was

VOL. III. S

little likely that such two daring plungers
would restrict their investments to that
amount, and, as we know, Sir Armature's
operations at " the Rooms" had
been conducted on his wonted scale.
Lord Whitby also had derived his inspiration
from the same source, so that
the Dancer" numbered amongst his
supporters some of the very heaviest
betters on the turf.

But Gerald was by no means easy to
come by, and Sir Marmaduke cantered
his hack about a good deal in the fruitless
endeavour to get speech with him. He
was purposely keeping out of the way as
much as possible. He was anxious to avoid
all questioning about last night's work
till the big race was over. He certainly
now held his cousin in the hollow of his
hand. Let him but denounce Cuthbert
Elliston and Pearson to Sir Marmaduke
and Lord Whitby, both members of the
Jockey Club, and the pair were socially

ruined. It would be bad enough for the
attorney, but for Elliston it meant social
extinction.

He had not quite made up his mind as
to what he would do. To take a terrible
revenge for all the woe he believed these
two men to have wrought his father, to
repay his cousin's undying enmity fourfold,
all this was within his power ; but,
on the other hand, Elliston was his cousin,
and the disgrace of one member of a
family is a thing never to be desired by
the rest, however they may dislike him
or her.

Pearson also would make very easy
terms with Greyson if he were once let
know that silence about last night's business
was conditional on his doing so.
Gerald had so far seen neither of the
confederates on the heath, still that might
be because they were keeping aloof from
the crowd as far as business permitted.

But, though Sir Marmaduke failed to

S2

find Gerald, he at length discovered Grey-son
with his charges, walking quietly
round and round, at the back of the Ditch.
Good morning, Grey son," said the
baronet " What is all this I hear about
an attempt to get at your horse last
night ? "

Well, Sir Marmaduke, it didn't succeed,
and we don't want to talk about it.
I'm told you've backed my horse for a
good bit. I can only say he never was
better, and if he don't win to-day it's no
fault of mine. He can't be fitter, but he's
a bit of a rogue, as you know, and, though
Mr. Rockingham thinks he'll run honest
with him, I don't know what to think
about it."

He looks well, and so for the matter
of that does Caterham. Then, Mr. Ellis-ton
fancies his chance very much, and, to
tell you the truth, so do I, although I let
Rockingham persuade me into backing
the other."

The two horses will run on their
merits, Sir Marmaduke, and I've no doubt
whatever that the grey can beat Cater-ham.
Whether he will depends on himself'


By this time Butters and his assistants
had whipped the rugs off, and were carefully
preparing Caterham and the Dancer
for the coming struggle, when Gerald
cantered up on his hack.

Weighed in?" said the trainer interrogatively.


Yes," replied Gerald, " 7-12 ; all
right. Robinson and I stand a cross fifty
on our mounts. Look sharp, Joe, and
slip my saddle on to the back of the
Dancer."

Ah, he rides Caterham, and backs
yours against his own as a hedge," replied
the trainer. " Where is he ? "

Here he comes," replied Gerald, pointing
to a horseman who was nearing them
as fast as his steed could carry him.

Good morning, Rockingham," said
Sir Marmaduke. " I came down here to
look for you, as I'm told you had a bit
of trouble at the stables last night, but
Greyson tells me you prefer to hold your
tongue about it. I can only say that for
such a thing to be possible is a slur upon
Newmarket, and if you like to bring it
forward I'm quite prepared to take it up."

u Thank you, Sir Marmaduke, but
neither I nor the horse am any the worse,
and we'll leave it alone for the present,
at all events. I'm off now ; but remember,"
he continued, dropping his voice,
if you see me in front at ' the turn of
the lands ' I shall take a deal of catching.
"Now, Joe, give me a leg up. I want
to have the Dancer to myself for a few
minutes before we go down to the post.
What's the latest news up there, Robinson
? " and Gerald jerked his finger in the
direction of the betting-ring.

Yours as strong as brandy in the market,

mine very steady ; but that Fedora
that won the Leger last year has come
with a rattle, and there's apparently
plenty of people who think she can give us
7 lbs. and lose us. They'll change their
note before the day is over, eh, Jim ? "

You're safe to finish in front of her,
Tom, and I shall beat you both, or not
be in it at all. Now I'm off to give my
mount a canter," and as he spoke Gerald,
who was by this time in the saddle, set
his horse quietly going in the direction
of the Cambridgeshire post.

Well, I shall go back to the stand to
see the race," said the baronet. " Wish
you success, Grey son," and sticking spurs
to his hack Sir Marmalade made the best
of his way back to the desired coign of
vantage.

"What orders, Mr. Greyson?" inquired
Tom Robinson, when he found himself
duly installed on Caterham's back.

u Mr. Elliston always gives his own

orders," rejoined the trainer, sharply. "If
he hasn't seen you yet, no doubt he will
at the starting-post."

"Supposing he don't?" inquired Robinson,
curtly.

Then ride him as you like. The
horse can both race and stay, and is
thoroughly wound up. I can tell you no
more, and decline to give any orders
under the circumstances."

It ain't like Mr. Elliston," replied the
jockey, as he cantered off to the post.
"No," he muttered, " one's usually rather
hampered with orders when one rides for
him."

Where are you going to see the race
from, Mann?" inquired Captain Warrington,
as the baronet cantered up to the
betting-ring. " It's been pretty lively
work in here for the last half-hour. The
Dancing Master's nominally first favourite,
but there's nobody has any money left to
lay. Caterham's firm, and Fedora's come

with a rattle, while half-a-dozen more are
backed a bit."

"I'm going on to the stand, as I want
to see how our horse gets off, and how
he is when he passes it. I have just seen
Rockingham. He means coming right
through if he can, which will suit the
Dancing Master's temper, and make the
most of his light weight'

All right; but we shan't see what
wins from there."

No, but young Rockingham says he
shall have about won at the e turn in the
lands ' just beyond."

"1 like his extraordinary confidence,
although I don't understand it, more
especially with such a disappointing horse
as he is riding," replied Farrington, as
they took their places and adjusted their
glasses.

The roar of the Ring is hushed, for the
twenty-six horses are now in the hands of
the starter, and speculation has ceased.

Grey son and Butters are both down at the
post to see the Middleton pair despatched
on heir journey. There are some few-false
starts, and, though the Dancing
Master behaves tolerably well, yet he
gives more than one manifestation that
the old Adam is by no manner of means
dead within him. Still, when the flag
does fall he gets off on very fair terms
with his horses, and to Gerald's delight
takes hold of his bridle as if he meant it.
The first to show in front is a lightly-weighted
four-year called St. Lawrence,
but just before reaching the stand Gerald
deprives him of the command, and at the
turn in the lands" is leading a couple
of lengths.

u Looks rosy so far'' said the baronet.

u Yes ; but they're a long way off yet,
not half way, indeed," rejoined Harrington.


In a fly nearly opposite the winning-post
were Dollie and her mother, both ina

state of considerable excitement, with
their race-glasses riveted on the straight
broad green ribbon that constitutes the
Cambridge course.

The favourite leads. The favourite
walks in ! '' shout half a score of the
Dancer's enthusiastic supporters.

u Caterham's going well, and Fedora's
not done with," exclaims a veteran in the
next carriage to Dollie. el But by Jove
young Rockingham is bringing them
along a cracker. Some of them won't
last much longer. Looking at the tailing
already."

The mare's done with. Fedora's
beat ! " roar a hundred throats as the
Leger victress succumbs to the severity
of the pace.

Robinson's riding Caterham ! " yell
the crowd again, as a couple of hundred
yards from home that jockey is compelled
to call upon his horse to keep his place.

The favourite wins in a canter ! " cry
a score of voices. Ah, what's this in
orange that's coming like a flash almost
under the judge's chair? Does Forrest
see it ? He does evidently, but sits still
as death. It is a supreme moment with
Gerald. The Dancing Master he knows
is doing pretty well his best. Dare he
move on his horse ? If he does, that
eccentric animal may shut up instantaneously.
The new comer on the scene
has caught him, has reached his girths,
is now at his head. Still Gerald sits immovable.
They are within two or three
strides of home, and the orange horseman
is doing all he knows. " The Dancer
wins ! " " Lisette wins ! " and as the two
shoot past the post, Gerald still motionless,
the crowd draw a long breath, and
ask each other what's won ?

Forrest threw the race away," cries
one indignant backer of the favourite ;
"he never even called on his horse."

I tell you he's won, and never rode a
more magnificent race," rejoins another.

Wait till the numbers are up and
you'll see," retorted the first.

Whichever way it was it was evidently
a very close thing between the favourite
and this almost friendless outsider, a mare
who had started at the extreme price of
30 to 1, but whose six stone four had
stood her in good stead, thanks to the
severity of the pace.

Up go the numbers at last, and Gerald
is as much relieved as anyone to find that
his adversary failed to quite get up, and
that the verdict is in his favour by a short
head.

CHAPTER XV.

CONCLUSION.

The announcement of the winner on the
telegraph board was greeted with ominous
silence. The King as a rule take their
punishment without flinching, but men
cannot be expected to wax hilarious over
the losing of money. Then, again, Mr.
Greyson was no popular owner of racehorses
whose money the Ring had often
had, but a chary backer, manager of a
crafty, unscrupulous stable, that had set
the fielders many a hard problem to solve,
and bled them wickedly many a time.
Even the public, who at the eleventh hour
had rushed wildly on the Dancing Master,

were dissatisfied. They had had to accept
a very short price, and they had lost
many and many a pound over the capricious
winner when he had declined
resolutely to gallop a yard for their
investments. It was no doubt a wonderfully
fine point between the leading pair,
and Gerald frankly admitted he did not
know whether he had just won or just
lost till the numbers were up ; but the
decision of the judge on any leading
English racecourse is no more disputed
than the summing-up of a judge in any one
of our law-courts. That there have been
cases in which the turf verdict has been
deemed a mistake, similarly as the 
at Westminster has been held
erroneous, there is no doubt ; but in
neither case is it ever regarded as other
than final.

"You were about right, Marm," said
Farrington, when the result of the race
reached them, " and so was Rockingham.

At ' the turn of the land ' things looked
very comfortable. It was the place for the
Dancing Master's backers with the straight
tip to see it from, but it must have been
a wonderful squeak at the finish from all
accounts."

"Yes; all our own fault," replied the
baronet, sententiously. " We were dolts
to forget that mare's form of last year.
It's all right, but she was every bit as
much turned loose as the Dancer."

Oh, Gerald, my darling, I thought
you had lost," exclaimed Dollie, as, the
weighing-in " satisfactorily concluded,
Rockingham cantered up to his betrothed's
carriage to receive her congratulations.

u I was much afraid so myself, and I
fancy it was about as short a head as ever
was given, but I was afraid to move on
the Dancer. Good horse as he is, he
was about all out, and I thought at any
attempt to call upon him he would perhaps
turn it up."

I don't think so myself," rejoined
Dollie, " but that is mere matter of
opinion. He ran better in the snaffle,
didn't he?"

"Yes; and for all I know might have
won much more decidedly if I had dared
take any liberties with him. As it was
I never interfered further than taking him
to the front. I followed your father's
original orders afterwards, and left it to
himself."

And the old horse was just equal to
the occasion, eh, Gerald ? "

Yes ; it was a shave, and I never rode
so trying a race, and never shall by any
possibility again. To have a wife and a
home depending, so to speak, on the
result, and nothing for it but to sit and
suffer, is to test one's nerve and patience
with a vengeance, and whether young
Craddock had caught me or not I didn't
know till I saw the numbers."

Congratulations, Mr. Rockingham,"

VOL. III.

said a deep voice behind them. " I have
been indebted to your horsemanship a
good many times this year, but anything
finer than your masterly inactivity just
now I never witnessed."

"Ah, Lord Whitby, it is a comfort to
know you understood it. Half the people
here think 1 all but lost the race from
carelessness."

Half the people here are chattering
idiots," rejoined the irascible peer. " On
a horse like that you were afraid, of
course, to move."

66 Let me introduce you to my wife that
is to be," interposed Gerald, abruptly.
He was in good humour with the world,
and in no mood for any causeless explosion
on the part of his irritable patron.

Then I must still further congratulate
you," rejoined Lord Whitby, as he raised
his hat to Dollie, u and I trust your bride
will accept a trifling memento of the Cambridgeshire
from an old friend of your

father's. Your intended excelled himself
to-day. It was the most perfect exhibition
of nerve and patience his winning the
Cambridgeshire I have witnessed in five-and
-thirty years' racing. May you both
be sincerely happy'' and once more raising
his hat his lordship rode off.

It was a grim settling next Monday at
Tattersall's. The Ring paid, as that
often-abused body as a rule always does,
but there was a heavy account due from
the owner of Caterham, for the meeting
of which apparently no provision whatever
had been made. Mr. Elliston, it was
rumoured, had gone abroad, nor could
any one remember to have seen him since
the day previous to the Cambridgeshire.
Although Sam Pearson was not present,
such bets as stood in his own name were
all met, but the bookmakers felt pretty
certain that he was actually responsible
for a considerable portion of those made

by his colleague, although his commis

2

done disclaimed any such liability on his
part.

Rather warm for the fraternity," remarked
Farrington to Broughton, as he
swept another little sheaf of banknotes
into his hat.

cl Yes, Captain, it's a scorcher, that's
what it is, and Mr. Elliston not 'weighing
? with the Caterham money of course
makes it rather worse for us. Still, none
of us grudge Lord Whitby, yourself, or
Sir Marmaduke your winnings. We've
hit you all hard enough in your time, and
we don't generally whimper when we
find e you've got us on toast.' "

The bookmaker's language was perhaps
enigmatical, but Farrington was thoroughly
versed in the shibboleth of the Betting
Ring, and manifested no surprise.

Mr. Elliston's account not being to the
fore is, of course, a little hard upon you,
but I've no doubt it's only a question of
time."

<i Yes, I suppose so ; Mr. Elliston's an
old customer, if not a very liberal one,
and I daresay he'll settle after a while."

But it was a long day before Cuthbert
Elliston ventured to return to England,
nor was his face ever seen again on an
English racecourse. A hurried consultation
took place between him and Pearson
when they found themselves beyond the
reach of pursuit, and they came to the
conclusion that it behoved them to get
away from Newmarket as speedily as
possible, and they accordingly departed
by the first train in the morning. When
in the course of the afternoon the result
of the race reached town, and Elliston ran
over his betting-book, he found that he
had stretched out his hand too far in his
anxiety to grasp a large stake. It would
be impossible for him to settle his liabilities
in full, and he dared not besides face
the consequences of his iniquitous attempt
at disabling the favourite. The evening

papers all alluded briefly to the affair, one
with the addition that " it understood the
most thorough investigation of the rascally
business would take place, and it was much
to be desired, in the best interests of the
turf, that the prompters of the dastardly
outrage should be dragged before the bar
of public opinion, should evidence not be
forthcoming to place them at the bar of a
court of justice side by side of the miserable
tools they had suborned."

Elliston crossed the Channel by that
night's mail, while his partner sped northwards.


Gerald had a long talk with Grey son on
the evening of the race, and finally they
came to the determination to keep the
affair to" themselves.

u I owe my cousin no kindness, but it
will not redound to the credit of the family
to expose him. We have won, and can
afford to be liberal, and, providing the
pair of them make no attempt to set foot

on a racecourse in future, we'll hold our
tongues. Eh, Greyson ? "

Yes; I think it will be best," replied
the trainer. "You see, I've got a good
bit of money together now, and if you
take Pearson in hand I have no doubt I
can settle with him on reasonable terms."

The attorney was only too glad to purchase
silence about a transaction which
would irretrievably ruin him if promulgated,
and made no fuss about striking off
usurious interest from the trainer's liabilities.
He further covenanted for both
himself and his partner that they should
retire from the Turf ; and the sale of
Phaeton, Caterham, &c, was speedily advertised.
Nobody ever penetrated the
cause of the abrupt break-up of the Ellis-ton
and Pearson confederacy, though Sir
Marmaduke had a shrewd suspicion of the
truth. It was usually attributed to an
unsuccessful season, to which their severe
losses over the Cambridgeshire put the

coping-stone. As for the attorney, he
throve and prospered exceedingly in his
profession, and on the whole probably
benefitted by his retirement from racing.
With his partner it was different; he
merely substituted the card-table for the
racecourse, and frequented the chief
play resorts of the Continent. As he
encountered there many professional
gamblers, with more skill, but quite as
unscrupulous as himself, he continued in
his usual state of irritable impecuniosity,
and poor Mrs. Ellison creed as hard a
lot as it is possible to mete out to
woman.

Shortly after Christmas two weddings
were celebrated in the parish church of
Cranley ; for Lord Whitby had acceded
to Gerald's request to be allowed to buy
the old place back from him.

Certainly, my dear Rockingham," he
said ; " I don't want it. Take it at what
I paid for it. I bought it chiefly to prevent

that d d scoundrel Cuthbert

Elliston having it."

Ellen and Mrs. Rockingham had set
their hearts upon the double ceremony
taking place from Cranley, so the Grey-sons
became Mrs. Rockingham's guests at
the Chase for that week ; and in the little
village church, where they had knelt
together as children, the brother and
sister, one bright February morning,
embarked upon the unknown waters of
married life.

u Ah ! " laughed Ellen to her sister-in-law,
as the pair stood surveying their
wedding presents, u how you and Gerald
do beat us in this respect ! It is better to
marry a crack jockey than a poor parson
when it comes to such jewels as these ; "
and Miss Rockingham lifted admiringly a
handsome set of pearls and turquoise, the
bridal gift of Lord Whitby.

# * *

There is no more to be told. All comedies

finish with a marriage ; and it is to
be hoped that the old tag may apply :
that they lived happy ever afterwards."
Gerald not only continued to follow his
profession, but commenced the formation
of a stud-farm at the Chase, and at the
end of a few years the Cranley yearlings
had earned for themselves a high reputation
in the Doncaster sale-ring. He
further usually had some few horses in
training at Riddleton, with which he was
more or less lucky.

In the hall of the Chase hangs a large
picture of an almost snow-white steed,
who has for years been lord of the Cranley
stud, to whom Gerald always points as
the horse who won back for him the lost
home of his ancestors.

THE END.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/fromposttofinish03smar

% Soult.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

Author OF " Breeze LANGTON," "TnE GREAT TONTINE," " AT FAULT.
"HARD LINES," &C. &C.

•• Looked as though the speed of thought
Were in his limbs: but he was wild,
Wild as the wild deer, aud untaught."

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.

1884.
(All rights reserved.)

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS

VOLUME II.

CHAP.

I. — " You Impudent Little Monkey
II. — Mr. Thorndyke's Cricket Club
III. — Newmarket
IV. — A Sharp Skirmish

V. — The July
VI. — " How very Disgraceful
VII. — An Ugly Warning .
Vii — Leasing a Racehorse
IX. — The Lawyers meet .

X. — " I am perfectly serious "
XI. — Once more at Riddleton .
XII. — " You'll be wanted at Doncaster'
XIII. — Mr. Durnford's little Dinner
XIV. — Gerald discovers Himself
XV. — Waiting for the Wire .
XVI — Sir Marmaduke " calls for hi?
Jacket " .

page



















•m

CHAPTER I.

YOU IMPUDENT LITTLE MONKEY."

Cakes and ale were going the evening
the news reached Riddleton Moor that
the Dancing Master had won the Two
Thousand. It was a great triumph. For
the stable to follow up last year's successes
by taking the first great three-year-old
event of the season with an outsider,
ridden by a Riddleton lad, was something
to boast of. A hard man was old Grey-son
; but he told his wife to set the cups

VOL. II. B

a-flowing upon this occasion, and to dispense
Yorkshire hospitality to all comers.

Judge the excitement of Dollie as she
saw the boy with the telegram, mounted
on the best hack in the stable, coming up
the road at a hard gallop, and waving
the yellow tissue triumphantly over his
head.

"Our horse in a canter!" he exclaimed;
Bushranger second, Pibroch a bad third.
Here's the telegram, master ; " and with
a grin of exultation he handed the yellow
paper to old Grey son.

The trainer looked leisurely over the
tissue, which Dollie, with flashing eyes,
read over his shoulder.

You're right, father ; you always
stuck to it he was a great horse when he
liked, and that Forrest was the best lad
you had."

I never said that, my lass. What I
said was, that he could do more with the
Dancing Master than any of the other

boys. The horse is more used to him,
you see."

61 It's a great thing for Jim Forrest to
win his first race, father, isn't it? More
especially when it is such a big race as
the Two Thousand."

Yes ; and means a new frock for you,
Dollie, and another mount or more before
the season is over for him."

But not only had Jim Forrest gone up
several steps in the estimation of the
trainer, but amongst the myrmidons of
the stable he was suddenly regarded with
much respect. He had achieved at one
bound the highest ambition of a stableboy's
life. He was a successful jockey!
What career might not be open in that
line to one who had steered the winner of
the Two Thousand to victory ? And already
they regarded Forrest as blossoming
possibly into a Frank Buckle or Jim
Robinson, or other of those dead heroes of
the saddle that figure in turf legends.

b2

There was great anxiety felt all round for
the return of Butters and his charge ; but
that could not be expected as yet for two
or three days. Although the Dancing
Master had no other engagement, Butters
had yet one or two other horses with him,
who had been taken to Newmarket with a
view to small handicaps, or selling races,
and so earn something to pay for their
hay and corn.

But the morning after the Two
Thousand brought a letter from Cuthbert
Elliston that excited no little surprise in
Bill Greyson and his wife, Dollie alone
had a glimmer of the real meaning of
it: —

u Congratulate you on your luck," it
ran ; "if you take my advice you will
part with your horse directly — for, of
course, he is now yours. Sir Marmaduke
Martindale asked if he was for sale, and
of course puts the Dancing Master down
as a veritable flyer, because he beat his

own two highly-tried ones. One thing
more. You will get rid of that boy
Forrest at once ; from what I know about
him, I don't choose to have him in any
stable with which I am connected. I had
no idea you had got hold of him. With
kind regards to Mrs. Greyson and Miss
Follies

am,

Yours truly,

CUTHBERT Ellison."

a Well, that's a rum start," as he
finished the letter. " What can he know
of this lad Forrest ? Why, the boy's only
been with us a couple of months or so ;
and he told me he had never been in a
racing stable before; and now I have
peremptory orders to discharge him."

But you surely won't do anything
so unjust, father? Why, he has just
rendered you a signal service. Besides,
he must be a fine horseman. I have
heard you say many times a more awkward

horse than the Dancing Master we
never had at Riddleton. Surely it would
be parting with one likely to be of very
great service to you''

"Don't talk nonsense, child. No trainer
can afford to indulge in the luxury of
keeping a servant whom one of his principal
employers objects to."

Dollie winced at the word. She had
accustomed herself to hear her lover called
one of the " lads," or u boys'' but there
was something very repugnant to her in
the term of u servant," and yet she knew
that he was just as much so as any one
else who looked after horses for hire. She
was not a little put out, too, at the idea
of Gerald's leaving Riddleton. She saw
that he had made the first step in the
career which she had marked out for him,
and she naturally wished that that career
should be worked out under her own eye.
She had pictured him as the crack jockey
of the Riddleton stables. Now he would,

of course, have to leave them, and probably
settle at Newmarket. She did not
see very much of him as it was, but her
opportunities of meeting him would be
rare indeed should that be the case, so that
upon the whole Dollie's gratification at
her lover's triumph was not altogether
without a mixture of alloy. Her father
puzzled over Elliston's letter a good deal.
He could not understand it. He had endured
a bitter experience of stable-lads in
his time, and the idea of parting with a
good boy, unless for proved dishonesty,
was a terrible mistake in his eyes. However,
if Mr. Elliston said it was to be soit
must. There would be nothing for it
but to give Jim Forrest twenty pound or
so for his win, and tell him he no longer
required his services. One thing Bill
Greyson comforted himself with for the
somewhat unfair treatment he was about
to mete out to young Forrest, and that
was, he could honestly recommend him fora

situation in any other stable, provided
he failed to get sufficient employment as a
jockey.

The end of the week brought Butters,
Forrest, and the horses home from Newmarket
flushed with success, for to
Elliston's great wrath Butters, having no
orders to the contrary, had ventured to
put Jim up again in one of the minor
races, and this also Forrest had succeeded
in winning, after exhibiting what the
race-going community pronounced a very
pretty piece of riding. He came backmost
certainly expecting a word of commendation
from the trainer ; that Greyson
was somewhat chary of such words he
knew well ; but he was assuredly dumb-foundered
at that gentleman's first speech
to him. Greyson was not the man to
dally about an unpleasant task, and, though
he honestly — could he have had his own
way — would have been most loth to part
with the boy, yet he felt that his employer's

orders must be carried out without
delay.

Well, my lad," he said, as he greeted
young Forrest, "from all I hear, both from
papers and hearsay, you've shown you
can ride. If you only keep steady, and
don't lose your head, I fancy your career
as a jockey is marked out for you. You
remembered what I told you about the
horse, and stuck closely to it. I won a
tidy little stake on it myself, and there's a
pony for you for riding to orders," and,
as he concluded, Greyson put five five-pound
notes into Jim's hands. " Mr.
Elliston ought to have behaved handsome
to you, though I don't want to ask what
he's given you."

I got nothing from Mr. Elliston," replied
Jim, proudly ; " not even thanks
for being successful."

"Well, yes, I'm sorry to say, you got
something more than that. Fee Mr.
Elliston's strict orders to discharge you,

and I've no alternative but to obey them.
What he has against you I've no idea,
and at all events he don't explain his
reasons to me."

I can guess them pretty well," replied
Forrest, "but that's neither here nor there.
I don't suppose now I shall have much
trouble about getting other employment.
However, I have to thank you both forgiving
me a chance, and the liberality
with which you have rewarded my
success. I suppose I can have a day or
two to look round ? "

Certainly, my lad," replied Grey son.
u We have got to part, but you're not
turned way, you know."

Gerald felt that he must see Dollie
before leaving Riddleton, and that of
course there would be no difficulty about
accomplishing. A letter in that old postoffice,
unlicensed of the authorities, would,
of course, find her, and Gerald had not
much doubt about her calling speedily

at that pole restante tinder existing circumstances.
If a girl does not want to
see and sympathise with her lover in his
hour of triumph, when does she want to
see him ? She's scarcely like to trouble him
in the dark hour of reverse, I trow. But
Dollie was full of exultation at Gerald's
success, and full of hope for his future.
Although dashed with disappointment and
filled with indignation at the injustice
dealt out to him at first, she had still the
sense to see, when she thought it over,
that the best chance of a jockey to make
his way quickly was to be resident at
Newmarket. It was annoying to her
personally to be so separated from her
lover, but then she was gifted with plenty
of common sense, and reflected how many
girls had to wait whilst their lovers made
incomes sufficient to marry them on. He
might be poor, he might be earning
his bread in servile fashion, at the beck
and call of any employer, like a Hansom

cabman, but he was of the best blood in
Yorkshire, and, say what you will, you
can't knock that conservative idea out of
the most radical woman's head. Even
the broken-down gentleman who has forfeited
his old station is always looked
upon with a certain respect, little as it
may be deserved, by the women of a class
beneath him.

Oh, Gerald ! " exclaimed the girl, as
she leaned across the fence and kissed
him, " I was so pleased, dear, when the
telegram came in. How good of that
cross-tempered grey thing to do his best
for once."

"A once, darling, that's made me. It
seemed as if the Dancing Master meant to
repay the debt of gratitude for all the
temper and patience he owes me. I daresay
you heard what Mr. Elliston's idea is
of repaying me my jockey ship ? Has he
told your father the reason why he wishes
me sent away ? "

"Of course, he recognised you, Gerald?
But no, he has not told father anything
about that. I saw the letter myself. He
merely says vaguely 'from what he knows
about you.' "

I am very glad of it, Dollie. I should
like to remain Jim Forrest for the next
five years, but I'm afraid my incognito
can hardly be sustained even if Elliston
says nothing about it. You see there are
so many of my old University chums still
there, and, of course, many of them come
over to Newmarket. Then there are a
good many other people who have known
me elsewhere. And if I am to come off
as a jockey I need scarcely say a great
deal of my time must be passed at i Headquarters,'
so that sooner or later I'm
afraid my recognition is bound to take
place."

I can't shut my eyes to what you say,
Gerald, and though, to me it matters
nothing, yet I wish for your sake, and the
sake of your mother and sister, it could be

avoided. Still the more successful you
are the more certain it is to happen. In
these days the crack jockeys and the
fashionable beauties occupy all the front
places in the photographers' windows. I
want you to succeed, Gerald, and you
must make up your mind to face the
notoriety which attends success."

Yes ; I fancy it's all for the best,"
replied Gerald. " You must forgive my
wincing at two or three things. You
have put me in the way of earning more
money than I was ever likely to do in any
other line ; but a Rockingham riding professionally
goes rather against the grain.
Absurd ! No doubt. I'm not very old ;
but I do know you can't afford to be
proud when you have got to earn your
own living. It's hard lines having to
leave you, Dollie."

Nonsense," replied the girl; " it's
only what all men do who get engaged
early in life."

u Engaged!" interrupted a voice from
behind. " Upon my word, Dollie, I
should very much like to know who you
are talking to about being engaged, forsooth,
at this time in the evening ; who is
it, Miss ? I insist upon knowing," continued
Mrs, Greyson, as Gerald, at an
imploring gesture from Dollie, retreated
precipitately in the direction of the
stables.

Who is it ? " replied Dollie, quietly ;
some one, mother, I had something to
say to."

Don't answer me in that way, Miss;
go in and see about supper directly; and
we'll soon see whether your father thinks
that because one of his stable-boys wins
races it justifies him in keeping company
with his daughter."

If I'm to be accused of flirting,
mother, with every one with whom I
exchange a civil word about the place,
perhaps I'd better be locked up at once.

Yes, I met young Forrest; and I was only
congratulating him on his success and on
his future prospects. Oh dear, no ; not
here, I know," she added with a little toss
of her head; " but he told me he has got
a good opening, and you know, mother
dear," concluded Dollie with a sweet
smile, " men are engaged to ride as well
as to marry I"

Go along into the house, you impudent
little monkey. Do you think I'm a
mole, and can't see how things are going
on ? This comes of you traversing over to
York, and trying on gloves in your uncle's
shop. You've got that giddy, that sooner
than not carry on with somebody you'll
be for carrying on with a stable-boy. Go
in, do, you saucy little baggage ; and if
your father allows that young Forrest to
be another day about the place he's a
bigger fool than I take him to be."

I don't know that Dollie was much perturbed
by this threat. She knew very

well that Jim Forrest was already dismissed
; and whether, after her mother's
discovery, he was permitted to linger on
another few days or so was likely to be
of very little consequence as far as their
love affair was concerned. She could
never venture to give him another meeting
now her mother's suspicions were
aroused.

As for her father ! Well, Dollie knew
he never was seriously angry with her for
twenty four hours; so that upon the whole
she was not much discomposed by the
aspect of things.

Mrs. Greyson was as good as her word.
Supper over, she ordered Dollie to bed in
that peremptory fashion that few about
her ever ventured to resist. Her petulant
invalid manner and ways were simply the
outcome of indolence, which her husband
was too easy to dispute ; but she had a
pretty resolute will of her own when she

VOL. II.

was roused, and those who knew her best
best knew it. Indolent dispositions are
apt to be of this fashion ; like the kettle
on a slow fire, they take some time to
boil, but boil over at last, and all the more
wickedly, from the hot water not being
quite expected.

Mrs. Greyson had been a manager in
her day, and the subordinates she had
drilled and disciplined still stood no little
in awe of the missus when she did look
into things; so what with that and Dollie's
being now able to take her mother's place
in some measure, the wheels of the menage
at Riddleton Moor Farm ran pretty
smoothly.

Dollie of late had rather rebelled
against the maternal autocracy; but she
had never ventured upon quite such a
flippant rejoinder as to-night.

Dollie, after some slight deliberation,
having yielded to her mother's mandate

and retired, Mrs. Grey son at once acquainted
her husband with Dollie's culpable
conduct.

u Damme," said Bill Greyson, bringing
his hand heavily down upon the table,
this won't do. He's a nice lad, that
young Forrest, and I won't say but what
he'll make a jockey in time ; but I'm not
going to have him sweethearts herewith
Dollie all the same. Leave him tome,
Dorothy, and I'll see he clears out
sharp tomorrow."

Mrs. Greyson would rather have enjoyed
dealing with the audacious Forrest
herself ; but she knew her husband too
well to suggest such a thing. She reigned
paramount in her own domain ; but Bill
Greyson tolerated no interference with
any of his own myrmidons, except in a
very limited way from his right-hand
man, Joe Butters. Though a rigid disciplinarian
he was a kind master, and Jim
Forrest received his immediate dismissal

next morning in rather softer terms than
he otherwise would have clone on account
of having so successfully passed his u little-go."


Look here, Forrest," said the trainer;
u 1 told you that you might stay on a few
days with me till you had arranged whereto
go. I tell you now you must clear out
this afternoon. From what I hear, you
came to Riddleton fooling after my
daughter. Now I'll have no caterwauling
of that sort. You've a future before you
if you behave yourself and keep clear of
drink. One thing more : take my advice,
and keep clear of muslin for the next six
or seven years. It's brought as many of
your profession to grief as spirits. Goodbye,
my lad; and," added Greyson, as he
shook hands, u don't let me hear of your
hanging around Riddleton."

CHAPTER II.

MR. THORNDYKE's CRICKET CLUB.

York woke up in real earnest when the
result of the Two Thousand reached it.
I don't mean canonical York exactly, but
that section that surged around Harder's
Hotel, or congregated in the coffee-room
of the Black Swan in Coney Street.
People congratulated Thomas Greyson
on the extraordinary run of luck that
was attending his brother's stable ; but
Yorkshire generally had no kindly feeling
towards Bill Greyson. He had imparted
the secret of last year to no one, excepta
very few intimates. He had not kept
them out of the Caterham business in the
City and Suburban, and many of the

Tykes had lost their money both last
year and this over that horse ; and hardly
a soul had been the better for the victory
at Newmarket.

Clever tactician, Tom, your brother ;
but he might gie his friends and neighbours
a turn, lad, when he's got such a
clinking good thing as that last. Cuthbert
Elliston, I reckon, made a mort of
money out of the business. He's deep,
deep as the Humber is Elliston."

It was in vain that Thomas Greyson
protested his brother had told him nothing,
and that he firmly believed the
Middleton people had won no money over
it. Yorkshire knew better than that.
Both the Grey sons, Elliston, and Sam
Pearson had won big stakes over it. A
clever division, very, said the denizens of
the Valley of the Ouse; "they do not
tell us mooch afore the race, that's certain
; but it's noa use they're telling us
afterwards they ain't collared the brass."

Amongst other persons upon whose ears
all this sort of talk happened to fall was
Ellen Rockingham. She had gone into
Mr. Greyson's shop, ostensibly to purchase
some small articles she needed, but in
reality quite as much with a view to
coming across Dollie. She had not quite
made up her mind what she would say
to Dollie if she found her there, was not
quite indeed sure that she would speak
to her at all ; but there was the fact they
could get no news whatever of Gerald,
and the sole person who knew of his
whereabouts was Dollie Greyson. The
girl was not in the shop, being, as we
know, still at Riddleton, but while buying
the trifles she wanted she overheard the
race for the Two Thousand discussed.
Miss Rockingham honestly cared nothing
for turf matters, still she had been brought
up in the bosom of a most sporting family,
and naturally could not help knowing
something about them ; besides, Cuthbert

Elliston and Mr. Sam Pearson were men
only too well known to her, and whom
she knew Gerald more than suspected of
having a considerable hand in working
his father's ruin. Once attracted by the
subject, she listened to the discussion,
which there was no attempt on the part
of the speakers to make confidential, and
gathered from it a most unfavourable
opinion of both Dollie's father and his
employers.

Yes ; old Bill's never been in the
habit of letting his neighbours stand in
with his ' good things,' but if ever he
ought to have given a man a hint it was
over the last Leger. He knew how deep
the poor Squire was in the swim that went
for Caterham, and Rockingham had been
a rare good friend to him in his early
days. He ought to have told him to save
himself over Phaeton."

Yes, indeed ; but those Riddleton
people think only of the money, and don't

care how, or from whom, they get it. By
the way, Grey son's brought out a new
lace as well as a new three-year-old. The
papers say that boy Forrest promises to
be as good as the horse."

And this was the first Ellen was destined
to hear of her brother's new career,
and little did she dream then who Forrest
was. In fact, so mechanically did the
name fall upon her ear that when next
she heard it she failed to recognise it.

Well, Miss Rockingham," exclaimed
Mr. Thorn dyke, who had just entered the
shop and caught just enough of the conversation
to become aware that the late
race at Newmarket was under discussion,
"■I presume you have enough county
patriotism to be proud of Yorkshire's
triumph over the Southron. I own I'm
always glad when those Newmarket people
get beaten on their own dunghill. They
give themselves such tremendous airs, and

think that no one can train a horse except
on the Heath."

Surely, Mr. Thorndyke, you don't
approve of racing ? I know you go very
far on the subject of field-sports, but not
quite so far as that, surely''

If you mean do I go racing, certainly
not, although I can see no harm in one
of my cloth doing so once in a way ;
but I did a good deal as a young man,
and I still cannot help watching it in the
papers."

Ellen could not understand Mr. Thorn-dyke
; that he should entertain these
extraordinary opinions and yet be a respected
and popular parish priest, as she
knew him to be, was inexplicable to her.
It was so contrary to the views of the
religious sect with which she had elected
to identify herself.

Will you come to my tea and turnout
next Thursday, Miss Rockingham ?

It's simply the opening of my cricket club
for the season. I entertain somewhat
more substantially than tea, though. A
few of my friends, also, are kind enough
to patronise me. Durnford, with whom
I dined last night, for one has promised
to come."

Ellen stared. She knew that the new
canon had already acquired the reputation
in York of being very fastidious in
the choice both of his friends and his
cook, and that to be one of his intimates
was already regarded as a social distinction.


You look amazed, Miss Rockingham,
at my being a friend of Durnford' s. Our
views, certainly, are not similar, but he's
a clever man and tolerant, and by no
means thinks it incumbent that every one
should be of his way of thinking. Or,"
he continued, laughing, tl do you think
it is a hankering after the fleshpots, and
that the canon's cook reconciles me to the
canon's opinions ? A good dinner is

better than a bad one, and a full man
is ever more open-handed than a fasting
one. Brushley, no doubt, tells you enjoyment
of the superfluities is wrong. Life
without its superfluities would be a very
dull business. Come to my party, Miss
Rockingham, and witness the full measure
of my iniquities. You will be a check
upon me, remember."

And then Ellen promised to go, and
bade him good-bye with a friendly little
nod.

It was not particularly curious what
had brought about the intimacy between
the two men. Mr. Durnford was careless
who he became friends with as long as
there was something in them. He had
all the tolerance of opinion that a man
accustomed to mix in the great London
whirlpool usually acquires. He admired
Thorndyke's straightforward fearless character,
and recognised his great ability.
The canon was, in his courtly way, quite
as fearless as Thorndyke, but he was not

quite so outspoken. The world had marvelled
much when Mr. Durnford accepted
advancement other than metropolitan, but
there are always wheels within wheels,
and Mr. Durnford was privately informed
it was merely a stepping-stone to something
better, so he accepted an excellent
country living a few miles from York and
a stall in the Minster, put a curate into
the rectory, and took up his own residence
for the most part within the city.

It was a lovely day in June, the week
between Epsom and Ascot, when Miss
Rockingham started off to keep tryst with
John Thorndyke, and be present at the
opening day of his parish cricket club.
Only the week before the racing community
had been electrified by the new
boy from the Riddleton stable actually
getting third for the Derby on a little-fancied
outsider, and there were not
wanted good judges who declared that
Young Forrest fairly outrode Blackton

for the place, and Blackton was not only
considered a good jockey, but it was well
known had stringent orders to be in the
first three if possible. People talked about
this in York a good deal, and hailed the
advent of another great north-country
jockey, who should be famous as Bill
Scott, Job Parson, or Frank Butler in a
short time. Greyson was congratulated
on having found, not only the horse but
the man, and then folks began to inquire
why it was that Jim Forrest had not
ridden the Dancing Master, instead of an
outsider like Trumpet Major, on which it
oozed out Forrest had set up his tent at
Newmarket, and severed all connection
with the Riddleton stable.

Miss Rockingham arrives at the cricket -
field, and is welcomed by John Thorn-dyke
in most clerical costume. A
loose black stout over his flannels is all
the acknowledgment the rector pays to
his cloth.

You don't mean to say you are going
to play?" said Ellen, smiling, as she
shook hands, for even she, it not being
Sunday, saw nothing extraordinary in his
doing so.

Yes. To tell you the truth it's a sort
of pious fraud, Miss Rockingham. You
see my folks don't like the opening match
without ' parson's in it.' So he always is,
and is very unlucky, too. You'll see
what a duffer I am to-day. The fact is,
you can't make a good score and look after
your guests, and some other fellow always
has to fag out for me — Oh, Durnford, you
remember Miss Rockingham ?"

i '' Could any one but an extreme Radical
like you presume to ask such a question ?
But there's nothing a Radical won't ask."

Yes, we are always desirous of acquiring
information, whilst you dear old
Conservatives forget nothing and learn
nothing."

Now, my dear Thorndyke, you know

you only ask questions to annoy people,
and it is usually successful. One either
don't want to give information or hasn't
any to give. A wise man hates confessing
ignorance."

"Well," laughed Thorndyke, "my
present business is to get a few runs, so I
shall leave Miss Rockingham in your
charge."

Quite right. Go and get your few
runs — can't be too few for the sake of
your guests, who for once are thoroughly
in accord with your Liberal principles."

"Is Mr. Thorndyke really a Radical ?"
inquired Miss Rockingham.

"Yes; and so are sensible men of all
denominations in reality, if by Radicalism
you mean that the world can't stand still.
Ah ! well hit ! " he exclaimed, as their
host sent a ball to leg for four. " Let's
wait a minute and watch the game.
Thorndyke is a really fine player."

Two or three more slashing hits, and

then the Rector skye one which his
opponents promptly secured. A little
ovation greeted his return to the tent, not
on account of the half-score runs or so he
had made, but as a testimony to his
popularity.

Dear me, Thorndyke, I congratulate
you," said Mr. Durnford, with* a twinkle
in his eye. " I had no idea you were
such a hand at lifting them."

I always like to ascertain in these
practice matches what the fielding's like,"
rejoined the rector. u I know now these
fellows can catch."

John Thorndyke's lunch was a great
success. There were at least fifty people
sat down in the tent, consisting of the
elevens, the leading people in his parish,
and a few personal friends like herself and
Mr. Durnford.

Miss Rockingham could not but see
what a popular man with his people this,
in her eyes, most unorthodox clergyman

VOL. II. O

was. It puzzled her. Could this man, so
utterly unlike what she was accustomed to
regard as one having religion, really have
the welfare of those confided to his charge
at heart ? Still it was evident that he
knew every one, and, from a word that
dropped here and there, had, besides a
personal, an intimate knowledge of their
lives. She knew that, though he preached
in what was to her most unconventional
fashion, yet his words went home,
and his congregation listened with rapt
attention to those short stirring addresses.
Was this man doing as much good,
according to his lights, as those more
rigid and ascetic clergymen with whom
she had been so far associated ?

She ventured, as they strolled about
after luncheon, to put a question to this
effect to Mr. Durnford.

We have all our way of attaining an
end, Miss Rockingham," replied the
canon, "but I wish I could think I did

half as much good as Thorndyke. I will
tell you a little story. Before he came
here Thorndyke had charge of a poor
parish in East London. Calling one day
on an artisan who was just recovering
from a long illness, he found the poor
fellow unusually despondent. An excellent
opening for work had presented
itself, but all his wardrobe was in pawn,
and he had no decent clothes in which to
apply for it. There was no time to be
lost or it would be gone. Thorndyke rose
to the emergency. He quietly divested
himself of the best part of his raiment,
insisted upon the convalescent man
putting on the clothes he took off, and
then awaited his return. The man's
application was successful, thanks to
Thorndyke's promptitude; he was just intime
to secure the situation he coveted.
No one ever heard our friend allude toit,
but the working-men of that district
have by no means been so reticent, and

D2

the incident gave Thorndyke the most
unbounded influence over them."

Miss Rockingham was as much impressed
with this story of John Thorn-dyke
as his late parishioners, and turned
it over in her mind many times.

CHAPTER III.

NEWMARKET.

Jim Forrest has taken up his residence at
the Turf metropolis, and settled down
steadily to the profession he has adopted.
He has no cause to complain, for he gets
a fair share of riding already, and that
share is gradually increasing. Still, his
practice lies at present amongst the smaller
patrons of the turf, and though he is
building up a solid reputation of being a
safe and capable jockey, who can be depended
on to do his horse justice, still his
opportunities of distinguishing himself
since the Derby have been rare. He won
one or two small races at Ascot, but when

he took part in the fray for the bigger
prizes he generally had something under
him that had little or no chance to win.
Still, he lived like an anchorite for fear
of putting on weight, took lots of exercise,
and conscientiously did his best with any
animal entrusted to him. Yet, so far, it
did not give much promise of becoming a
lucrative profession as far as he was concerned.
For his great coup, winning the
Two Thousand, Cuthbert Elliston had
given nothing, and Gerald felt much relieved
that it was so. He would rather
not take money, even if honestly earned,
from the cousin he detested. His brilliant
finish in the Derby had been equally unremunerated.
The owner of his mount
there had no idea his horse was so good,
and was proportionately indignant at having
him exposed, to say, nothing, moreover,
of his having backed the horse
Blackton rode heavily for a place. His
only comment on young Forrest's riding

was that Cl It was a piece of d d officiousness."

Still, Jim heard daily now of
the large gratuities which the more fortunate
of his compeers received for winning
big races, and, cheerfully remembering
Bill Greyson's parting words, hoped that
his turn would come.

He was returning to his modest apartments
one evening after a long stretch
across the Heath, for in default of having
any horse to ride gallops he spent a good
deal of his time walking over and studying



the different courses at Newmarket

when he was suddenly hailed by a smart-looking
groom.

u I say, you're Jim Forrest, ain't
you ? "

"Yes," replied Jim, sententiously.
« What next ? "

"Well, you're to come up to master's
this evening — he wants to see you — Panton
Lodge. Sir Marmaduke Martindale,

you know. Shall I say you'll be thereabout
nine ? "

"Yes, say I'll be there," replied
Forrest,

As the groom walked away whistling,
he marvelled much what it might portend.
It might mean getting some small share
of Sir Marmaduke's riding, for the baronet
was racing on so large a scale that he
constantly had more work than the recognised
jockey of his stable could
manage. Jim was thoroughly awake to
the advantage of being affiliated to a
great establishment like Sir Marmaduke's,
and felt grateful that the baronet had
been a little before his own time at Cambridge,
so that he ran no risk of being
recognised. Man is something like the
ostrich, and when he has put his head in
the sand thinks nobody will recognise
him. Already it was whispered about
the singular likeness of Jim Forrest to

young Rockingham of Trinity, u fellow,
you know, whose father died the other
day and left nothing behind him — gone
through every stick and acre, bead, sir."
Gerald had been of course well known at
both Rugby and Cambridge, and some of
his old associates had of course seen him
in his altered circumstances, and, though
rather puzzled by the silk jacket and
jockey cap, were much inclined to the
belief that Jim Forrest and Gerald Rockingham
were one. A subject this much
canvassed late at night in club smoking-rooms,
resulting in opinion misty as the
tobacco wreaths from which it was
evolved. That a racing man like Sir
Marmaduke should have heard this
rumour was natural, and he looked somewhat
curiously at Forrest when the latter
was ushered into his sitting-room that
evening, although that was not at all the
subject on which he wanted to see Jim.
The Baronet had tried his horses pretty

highly before the Two Thousand. At six
furlongs Pibroch was considerably the
superior, at a mile there was little to
choose between them, though it was still
Pibroch for choice ; but from this Sir
Marmaduke argued that Bushranger was
the better stayer. Both the Newmarket
race and the Epsom one thoroughly confirmed
that opinion. At Newmarket
Bushranger was beaten easily by the
Dancing Master ; at Epsom he was done
a short neck by Comet. In the one place
Pibroch finished a bad third, in the other
he was beaten for the same situation by
Jim Forrest on the outsider Jacobite.
From all this the Baronet deduced that
the Dancing Master was a rattling good
horse. That he had run very badly in
the Derby was true ; but Sir Marmaduke
thought little of that. He was a queer-tempered
animal evidently, not always to
be relied on ; and the Derby day apparently
wasn't his day. Now Bushranger

might or might not beat Comet in
the Leger, it would be a close thing.
Pibroch, the Baronet felt quite certain,
would never stay the course. His idea
was to, if possible, buy the Dancing
Master, and then with him to turn the
tables on Comet at Doncaster. It was
about this matter that he wished to have
a talk with Jim.

s( Sit down, Forrest," he said, " and
have a glass of wine : what shall it be,
champagne or claret ? "

I'll take a glass of claret, thank you,
sir," rejoined Jim, as he seated himself,
though respectfully, yet with a certain
easy manner that attracted the attention,
not only of Sir Marmaduke, but his two
guests. One of these, a wiry little man,
with dark, bead-like eyes, and dressed ina
single-breasted pepper-and-salt riding-coat,
with a white cashmere scarf, exquisitely
folded, and held together by a plain
gold horse-shoe pin, was Mr. Pipes, his

trainer ; the other, a tall, blonde, lazy-looking
man, about eight-and-twenty, was
Captain Farrington, of " Lanner's Own,"
as the distinguished Lancer regiment to
which he belonged were habitually termed,
from their traditional devotion to that
hostelry. An imperturbable plunger
on racecourse or gaming table, perfectly
unmoved at either victory or disaster ;
one whom it took a good deal to move
or astonish, innumerable as were the
opportunities he gave himself in that
direction.

I want to know, Forrest," said Sir
Marmaduke, after he had allowed Jim a
minute or two in which to sip his claret,
who owns the Dancing Master. Of
course I know he ran in Mr. Elliston's
name at Epsom ; but he told me when the
horse won ' The Guineas ' he wasn't his."

u He's Mr. Greyson's, sir."

What, the trainer's, eh ? "

Yes. Mr. Elliston gave him to Mr.

Greyson before the horse won at Newmarket."


Is he for sale ? " inquired Sir Armature.


"I can't say, sir. I believe him to be
Mr. Grey son's at this time."

"Why didn't you ride him in the
Derby ? " inquired the Baronet sharply.

u I had left the Biddleton stable, sir;
and wasn't asked to take charge of him in
the Epsom race."

(t How do you account for the display
he made there ? "

He wouldn't try, I suppose ; he's a
queer-tempered one, Sir Marmaduke."

Ah! well, never mind him. Have you
any objection to telling me why you left
the Biddleton stable ? "

I cannot tell you that," replied Forrest,
bluntly.

8< You were discharged, I suppose ? "

Not exactly. I was sent away for
neither misconduct nor incapacity ; and. if

you think it worth while to write to Mr.
Grey son, he will, I am sure, give me an
excellent character ; but I'm afraid, Sir
Marmaduke, you can't do much for me.
Blackton does all your riding ; although,
if you could recommend me to some of
your friends, I should be obliged."

u Give you a turn myself, Forrest,"
drawled Farrington, " when you want a
little exercise. The four or five I keep in
training never win, but are just useful
when you want to see a race."

The captain so far spoke truth. The
few he had in training were very moderate,
but there was no cleverer hand on
the turf in placing horses in small selling
races than he was, or anybody who backed
them much more heavily than he did.

Sir Marmaduke meanwhile had been
musing as to whether there was any truth
in the rumour that young Forrest was a
gentleman by birth. He noticed the refinement
of his manner, the neatness of

his dress, and lastly, that his speech was
by no means that of the class he affected
to belong to. He began to think that
rumour for once had not been so very far
out.

"I tell you what, Forrest," he said, at
length ; " I've got rather more riding
than Blackton can manage, and it is generally
strewn about now. If you like to
take a moderate retainer — say a hundred
a year — to ride the second strings, you
shall have what there is of it that lies
within your weight."

I shall only be too glad, Sir Armature."


u Remember that entitles me to first
call on your services. You can accept no
other mount if I want you."

6i I understand it so."

a Very well ; then that's a bargain.
You've nothing to do now but send Pipes
there your address, and be wherever he
orders you, ready to ride."

Yes, and thank you. Sir Marmaduke,
once more. Gallops, Mr. Pipes, of course,
I shall be too glad also to ride if wanted.
I can't have too much practice."

You're right there, Forrest," said the
trainer, breaking silence for the first time.
It's the work on the exercise ground
that has made half our crack jockeys. If
you like to throw that in the contract,
there'll probably be something for you to
rasp up most mornings''

"I'll call up, Mr. Pipes ; and now Sir
Marmaduke, with many thanks, I'll say
good night. Good night, sir."

Good night, Mr. Forrest," replied
Farrington, without thinking. " By
Jove," he said, as the door closed behind
Jim, " the fellow made me clean forget he
was only a jockey."

"Ah," exclaimed Sir Marmaduke, "he
struck you in that light, did he ? So he
did me ; there's a report you know,
Charley, that Forrest is only an assumed

name, and that the lad is a gentleman by-birth.
Have you heard anything about
it, Pipes?"

"No, Sir Marmaduke, but this chap
struck me as a deal better bred 'un than
they are mostly. He's no hair about the
heels, so to speak."

"Well, anyhow I've done no harm by
engaging him. From the way he did
Blackton on Pibroch out of the place at
Epsom, there's no doubt the fellow can
ride. And now, Pipes, I'll unfold to you
my great conception. I'm going to buy
the Dancing Master if I can, and win the
Leger with him. Judging it through the
Two Thousand running, he ought to beat
Comet, as he beat Bushranger much easier
at Newmarket than Comet beast him at
Epsom."

So he did, Sir Marmaduke. I should
judge him a 51b., if not a 71b., better
horse than Comet."

VOL. II. E

Just so, Pipes ; and now let me point
you out another thing. The Dancing
Master runs in Forrest's hands, he don't
in those of the next lad who steers him ;
we know he's a queer-tempered horse. It's
just possible Forrest, whom he knows, is
about the one jockey he'll run kind with."

Yes, Sir Marmaduke, I understand
your game thoroughly; and I'm not going
to say but what it's a good one. Difficulties
there'll be, no doubt, even if we do
succeed in buying the grey."

Difficulties ? " said the Baronet. " Of
what sort, I should like to know ? "

Well, Sir Marmaduke: if you get the
horse, I suppose you mean putting Forrest
up at Doncaster. Blackton will very
likely give trouble about that."

He will do as he's ordered," said the
baronet, tersely.

Certainly; but he's engaged as first
jockey to the stable, and, if you put him

up on Bushranger instead of the Dancing
Master, he'll say you're not acting fair
by him."

u D n it all ! these jockeys are getting
a deuced deal too cheeky. Does
Blackton think we can't get on without
him?' ,

"I don't know'' replied the trainer;
but it would be very difficult to fill his
place just now. You can always count
off those quite at the top of the tree on
your fingers, and of course they all have
retainers ; and you can only get them if
their first master doesn't want them ; and
he may claim them at the last moment
even then. No ; it would be awkward if
Blackton turned sulky and sent in his
jacket."

They're getting a devilish deal too
bumptious, the whole crew of them," retorted
the baronet, moodily.

"By Gad! yes. We ought to be empowered
to birch 'em up to eighteen. Sort

LIBRARY

UNIVERSE OHLUNOIS

of law the Jockey Club should pass if they
were any use," said Farrington, as he lit
a fresh cigar.

"Well, gentlemen," said the trainer;
"it's your own fault, a good deal of it;
you spoil 'em, instead of keeping them in
their places. There's another thing. Sir
Marmaduke. The Dancing Master, after
the beating he got at Epsom, is — supposing
him to be anything like the colt
we think he is — at a very nice price at
present. It's quite evident that none of
those connected with him have any confidence
in him. He ran unbacked for
the Two Thousand, so I am told ; and
Broughton tells me the stable had next to
nothing on him for the Derby ; but the
minute he comes into your stable you
may depend on it he will become a great
favourite with the public, and you will
have great difficulty in backing him to
win a good stake."

"Yes, there is something in what you

say, Pipes ; but I rise to the occasion.
We'll keep the buy dark, and leave the
horse at Greyson's."

Well, Sir Marmakuke, that might do ;
and please remember I've nothing in the
world to say against Grey son. A very
capable man, and thoroughly understands
his work ; but there's a very queer lot
connected with his stable, and, if Grey-son
hasn't been very much maligned,
he's done some queer things in his time.
I don't say he wouldn't do the horse justice
; but then again, when Doncaster
came round, we might t find him quite
so fit as we should like to see him."

Mr. Pipes had all the jealousies of his
calling, and by no means relished the idea
of allowing a horse, the property of his
master, to remain in the hands of a rival
practitioner.

Pish ! " retorted the baronet; " you're
as troublesome to deal with as you say
Blackton will be."

Excuse me, Sir Marmaduke ; I willingly
acknowledge Greyson's ability. I
only put it to you, do you think it advisable
to leave the horse in his hands ? "

I should think he would do his best
for me, just as I suppose Blackton will see
that the Dancing Master is more likely todo
his best for Forrest, whom the horse
knows, than he is for himself."

He — he — you'll excuse me, Sir Mar-mature
; but the idea that any one can
make more of a horse than he can, is the
very last that can enter or be got into
Blackton's head. No, sir ; amongst the
leading jockeys there isn't one who don't
believe he can give his brethren seven
pound, and how much better he is than
the smaller fry, the machine's not made
that can calculate."

It's no use discussing these things
further now," rejoined the baronet, rather
irritably. u It will be quite time enough
to settle all the details when I've bought

the horse. There's nothing more to
arrange, I think, Pipes."

Nothing, I think, Sir Marmaduke.
You've done a good bit of business in
engaging that lad Forrest. I only hope
you'll be as fortunate about your bid for
the horse ; " and then, in obedience to the
baronet's hint, the trainer rose, and, with
a quiet " good night, gentlemen," took
his departure, leaving his employer and.
Charley Farrington to discuss tobacco and
the Racing Calendar till far into the
night.

CHAPTER IV.

A SHARP SKIRMISH.

It is rather a curious discovery, this,
and I can hardly imagine Cuthbert
Elliston behaving, as I am told he did,
to Gerald Rockingham if he knew of the
existence of these little bits of paper,"
muttered Mr. Writson as he sat in his
office before a half-emptied box of papers.
I wonder whether Mr. Elliston is aware
of the extent of his liabilities ! Anyhow,
it is my duty to make him aware of them.
It is clearly my business to recover as
much of the money as I can, and, though
rumour says he is a very difficult man to get
money from, yet, like a refractory lemon,

when you get it in the squeezer, legal
proceedings extract what juice there is, asa
rule. Elliston must be in funds just
now. He had a very good year on the
turf, and he's begun by winning one of
the big races this year. Men like him
fluctuate a good deal, but his affairs should
be at the flood at present. He must have
supposed that the late squire destroyed
these bills, but even that would hardly
account for the exceedingly bitter feeling
Gerald tells me he displayed towards
them all almost over his father's grave.
The only way to account for it is that
singular instinct in human nature which
always leads us to hate those we have
cruelly injured ; and from what I gather
in these papers Cuthbert Elliston had no
little hand in the squire's ruin. I wish I
knew where Mr. Gerald was. I should like
to tell him what I propose doing, although
his final instructions were comprehensive

enough. ' Do the best you can, Writson,
and recover all you are able out of the
wreck for my mother and sister. As forme,
I can take care of myself.' "

Still, Mr. Writson was so anxious to
communicate with Gerald before firing his
first shot at Elliston that he sent a note
down to Mrs. Rockingham to ask for his
address. An answer speedily arrived
from Ellen to the effect that they had
no idea of where he was, nor had they
heard from him for some months, and
were just as anxious for news as Mr.
Writson could be. Miss Rockingham had
now become very uneasy at her brother's
mysterious silence. Had anything happened
to him ? What could have become
of him ? It was so unlike Gerald's
conduct of late to keep them in ignorance
of his movements. There was but one
person she knew of that seemed to be
cognisant of them, and, reluctant as she

felt to apply to her for information, Ellen
at length determined that she would see
Dollie Greyson if she could.

Dollie had not been having a good time
of it latterly at Riddleton by any means.
Her father, it was true, thought no more
of the episode with Jim Forrest after
that young gentleman's departure ; but do
you suppose Mrs. Greyson was going tolet
her daughter off so easily ? No ; the
mothers that bore them don't let their
girls off in that fashion when they are detected
encouraging the ineligible. Dollie
was destined to hear allusions to her
absorbing interest in Jim Forrest's engagements
of all sorts, not daily, but, like
a liberally presented tonic, they had to be
swallowed about every three hours, till at
last Dollie's patience gave way. It is not
easy to bear with a persistent dagger, and
Mrs. Greyson was gifted beyond the
generality of her sex in that way. It was
not the first time that Dollie and her

mother had differed by a good deal, and
the girl's pet refuge under these circumstances
was, if she could compass it, always
a visit to her uncle Thomas at York.
There was often a difficulty about it — Mrs.
Greyson violently opposed it, but Dollie
was cunning of fence, and persistently
started her hare every evening, till at last
Bill Greyson, weary of the wordy war
between mother and daughter, and thirsting
for peace and quietness, automatically
settled the question with a sharp " Pack
up your things tomorrow and go, in
God's name. I'm sick of this perpetual
bickering between you and your mother."
So Dollie speedily found herself once
more installed at the shop in Coney Street,
and, after her wont, taking an occasional
turn behind the counter. She kept a keen
look out for Miss Rockingham, being, indeed,
quite as anxious to see Ellen as
Ellen was to see her. She was not at all
dissatisfied with the last passage of arms

between them, and held, moreover, this
advantage over Gerald's sister. She was
in his confidence, while Ellen was not.
She knew where he was, what he was
doing, what were his hopes, and what
prospect there was of realising them. His
last letter, indeed, had told her of his
being retained by Sir Marmaduke, and, of
course, Dollie thoroughly understood that
was another step up the ladder. Bill
Greyson's daughter thoroughly understood
the prestige an engagement by a
big stable conferred upon a young jockey.
Then she had implicit faith in her lover,
and was of a sanguine temperament, and
one of the things she was anxious to accomplish
during her visit to York was
establishing friendly relations of some sort
with Miss Rockingham. She knew that
she would have to submit to being treated
in a rather patronising sort of way. Ellen
was much too well assured of her family
and position ever to trouble her head

about it, but her manner to her inferiors,
although always suave, was apt to be a
little imperious, and Dollie knew that at
all events, to start with, Miss Rockingham
would regard her in that light, and Dollie,
under the circumstances, rather chafed at
the idea of not meeting her future sister-in-law
on equal terms.

Much to her astonishment, Dollie was
interrupted one morning at her piano by
an intimation from her uncle that Miss
Rockingham was in the shop, and asking
to see her. The girl gave one glance at
herself in the glass over the fireplace, and,
that being satisfactory, tripped downstairs
to see her visitor.

I am told you want to see me, Miss
Rockingham ! " said Dollie, as she glided
behind the counter. " What can I do for
you ? "

Ellen scanned narrowly the girl who
addressed her. She took in the neat
petite figure, the sunny auburn hair, the

grey eyes, with their long curling dark
lashes, and realised again that Dollie
Greyson was an unmistakeably pretty
girl. Pick her to pieces, of course, you
could. Her nose, albeit not the least of
the retrousse order, was not unimpeachable,
and her mouth, though garnished
with white regular teeth, was open to
criticism ; but what cannot one pull to
pieces ? Is not Addison held up to us asa
model of pure English, and does not
Cobbett point out half-a-dozen grammatical
errors in the great essayist of Queen
Anne's time ? A terrible iconoclast that
Cobbett, ex sergeant of Her Majesty's
Infantry of the Line, believing little in
anything or anybody, and tearing the veil
from a good many brazen images the
people had set up.

I should imagine, Miss Greyson, you
could pretty well guess what I was desirous
of seeing you about. We have heard
nothing of my brother for so long that weare

getting anxious about him. Besides,
his lawyers wish to communicate with
him on business. You professed the last
time I saw you to know where he was."

Do! lie felt a great inclination to fire up
at the term " professed," but she gulped
down her indignation, and answered
quietly,

I know where your brother is, Miss
Rockingham, and am very glad indeed to
be able to tell you that he is doing right
well in his new calling."

u What is he doing?" inquired Ellen,
sharply.

Please don't think me rude," replied
Dollie, in her most conciliatory manner,
but I am pledged to secrecy on that
point. I can't tell you — I really can't."

"I can't suppose that any pledge of
secrecy you may have given can possibly
be looked on as applying to his sister,"
rejoined Miss Rockingham, loftily.

I was to tell nobody. I promised
him not."

You promised Gerald not," said Ellen,
slowly. "Miss Grey son, is there any
place where I could speak to you for five
minutes in private? "

If you would step upstairs we should
not be interrupted," said Dollie, as she
motioned to Miss Rockingham to come
round the counter, and led the way upstairs.


Ellen glanced round the drawing-room,
to gather, as women intuitively do, some
knowledge of this girl's character from
her surroundings. The books, the music,
the nicknames, all betray to their sisters
some conception of what the presiding
goddess may be like in disposition and
pursuits, and Ellen had made up her
mind that the daughter of the Riddleton
trainer, whom she had heard of as distinguishing
herself with the York and
Ainsty, would undoubtedly show herself

VOL. II. F

masculine in her tastes. But Tennyson
and Mrs. Browning, an odd volume of
Shakespeare, one of George Elliot's novels,
and an open copy of " Gil Bias' were not
suggestive that way any more than the
songs and music scattered about the piano ;
and Ellen felt in a moment that this girl
was very different from what she had
hitherto estimated her, and further that
this was likely to be a much more serious
affair for her brother than she had as yet
deemed it. If Dollie combined feminine
attributes and refinement with her witching
horsemanship, she was fair enough to
warrant any young man going wild about
her.

Dollie motioned her visitor to a chair,
and then with a quiet " We shall not be
interrupted here, Miss Rockingham," left
it for Ellen to begin.

Once more Ellen was no little surprised.
Wherever could the girl have picked it
up?" she wondered, but Dollie's easy,

self-possessed manner was quite that of a
lady receiving an equal. There wasn't a
particle of pertness or self-assertion — it
was simply the air of a lady accustomed
to mix in the best society, and who had
been used to receiving morning-callers all
her life.

Miss Grreyson,'' said Ellen, at length,
are you still resolute in declining to give
me my brother's address ? "

Dollie nodded in the affirmative.

If you will give me that I need
trouble you no further, as I could then
ask him the questions. I must, if you
persist in your refusal, ask him."

u I cannot give it you, Miss Rockingham,
without his consent ; but I will write,
if you like, to him for permission, and
tell him what you say about the lawyers
requiring it."

Would you mind explaining to me
how it is you are so deep in my brother's

f2

confidence?" said Ellen, looking her
young hostess straight in the face

Dollie flushed a little, and hesitated a
moment before she replied,

I don't know. It is, perhaps, always
difficult to say why people give you their
confidence. I can only say I know your
brother very well, Miss Rockingham, and
he has given it."

u You are evading my question. We
come back to where we were some time
ago. You don't suppose that ring and a
boy's idle gallantry mean anything ? If
you are deluding yourself with any dream
of that sort it is only charitable to awaken
you in good time. A flirtation with my
brother, including an underhand correspondence,
believe me, Miss Greyson, will
do your reputation no good."

u How dare you say such things tome?"
cried Dollie, with her cheeks in a
flame, and her eyes flashing. " You

know nothing of what terms your brother
and I may be on."

The better they are the worse they
are for you'' retorted Ellen, sententiously.

Miss Rockingham," said Dollie, mastering
her temper by a violent effort,
Gerald — I mean your brother — never
uttered a word to me that a girl need be
ashamed to listen to."

Perhaps not," replied Ellen; " still,
nothing but trouble can come of it. That
a Rockingham should marry a girl in
your station is, of course, impossible."

Dollie shot a wicked glance at her tormentor.
u And yet, methinks, I have
read the legend of the Lord of Burleigh,"
she retorted.

Yes," retorted Ellen, tartly; "and we
have heard of King Cophetua and the
Beggar Maid. They were rash enough
to marry out of their class, and make fools
of themselves ; but gossip might have told
you that we are ruined ; besides, perhaps

you may remember that in the ballad of
the Lord of Burleigh the young lady
never felt quite comfortable in her new
position, —

But a trouble weighed upon her,
And perplexed her night and morn.

With the burthen of an honour
Unto which she was not born.

You, Miss Grey son, will be marrying
family, but certainly not property."

What have I ever done to you, Miss
Rockingham, that you should taunt me in
this fashion ? Upon what terms your
brother and I stand exactly you don't
know; and from me never will know. I
will give him your message, and I fancy
now there is no more to be said between
us ; " and, as she spoke, Dollie rose, drew
herself up, and clearly indicated by her
manner that the interview was at an end.

To say that Ellen was nonplussed would
faintly express Miss Rockingham's feelings.

She was much too polished of fence
to show it; but she could not conceal from
herself that she, Ellen Rockingham, had
been put down quietly by this chit of a
trainer's daughter whom she had intended
to patronise. There was nothing left for
it but to retreat in good order. She bid
Miss Greyson a haughty farewell ; and
reflected, as her hostess courteously marshalled
her downstairs, not only that she
had taken very little by her visit, but that
the probability was Gerald was very
deeply compromised with Dollie Greyson.
Dollie, too, was almost as much dissatisfied
with the result of the interview asher
visitor. She had meant to be conciliatory
— she had tried to do her best in
that direction ; but she felt that, far from
doing that, she had simply incurred that
young lady's disdain and dislike. That
Ellen now regarded her as a designing
hussy, whose head was turned at the idea
of marrying a gentleman, and who failed

to realise what a hopelessly bad speculation
Gerald was as a husband.

There is only one bit of consolation,"
murmured Dollie, as she soothed her
nerves with a cup of tea; "I think I've
established us both on the same platform
at last ; we have, perhaps, a better chance
of becoming friends that way than any
other. I wish I had kept my temper; but
that Gerald could only regard me as a toy
to amuse his leisure hours was more than
flesh and blood could bear. Gerald shall
scold me as much as he likes ; but to be
lectured by his sister, because he has
fallen in love with me, is trying a girl
rather too hardly. "

CHAPTER V.

THE July.

But the long glorious July days have
arrived, and with them come not only the
end of the season — a circumstance with
which this story has little to do, but that
large meeting at the back of the Ditch,
where we all wear the lightest and most
unconventional costumes, the slouched of
hats, where we smoke endless cigars, consume
cup by the pailful, commit flirtation
unlimited, and back winners unceasingly,
at least, as Whyte-Melville sings (on quite
another subject) " It is so we are trained
and taught." But, ah me ! these trainers
and teachers ! When we come away at the

end of the week we find that the grass
must have been damp, and that we have
caught a severe cold, that those buckets of
cup have not agreed with us, that a dozen
cigars a day make one feel dreadfully
u chippy," in the morning, we have misgivings
that we have said a good deal
more to Mrs. Slightly than was quite
discreet, and above all a sad conviction
that our Monday's account is very much
the reverse of a winning one.

Still, what veteran punter or juvenile
plunger ever misses that quiet meeting at
the back of the Ditch held in the dog-days
? The Golconda of Ascot has failed
us, and the Ophir of Goodwood is yet to
come. That the racing at the Newmarket
July Meeting is good is notorious, and it
certainly is regarded as a battle-field upon
which the hungry backer is apt to get the
better of his natural enemy the bookmaker.


Sir Marmaduke had been a prominent

figure at Ascot, where the betting had
been unusually heavy. The Baronet's
speculations had been not only successful,
but of a magnitude rarely witnessed. It
was known that he had been a very heavy
loser this year, notably over the Two
Thousand and Derby, in both of which he
had supported not only his own horses,
but in the latter race the Dancing Master
as well, believing him to be a thoroughly
good horse, and it was further announced
that he had declared it was only money
lent, and that he would win it all back
before Goodwood. The Ring looked
somewhat glum over the Ascot settling ; it
had been one of those sunny weeks so
rarely vouchsafed to the gentlemen, and
most of the leading turfites had been good
winners over the meetings, whilst, as for
Sir Marmaduke, the bookmakers vowed
he had gone pretty near to fulfilling his
boast.

The Baronet was installed at Panton
Lodge, eager for the fray, it is needless
to state, the day before the meeting began.
Report spoke highly of a flying filly in his
stable that was to make her debut in the
July Stakes. Atalanta was said to be a
veritable clipper. She was as good as
Bushranger at even weights ; she had
beaten Pibroch at 10 lbs. ; there hadn't
been such a filly seen on the Heath since
Crucifix's day; these, and many more such
cards, were in the air concerning her,
and it was no secret that the Baronet had
trusted her with a very large sum of money
in the forthcoming race.

u It is very awkward, Sir Marmaduke,"
said Mr. Pipes, who had ridden down
from the stables as soon as he found his
patron had arrived, and requested an
audience, u but it might have been worse.
Something might have happened to the
filly instead of to her jockey''

There's no chance whatever, I suppose,
of Blackton being able to ride ? "
inquired the Baronet.

None. I went to see him again just
before I came up. He's quite comfortable,
and there's no more harm than a broken
collar. It's set, and he'll soon be about
again, and well as ever, but it's no use
thinking about his riding this meeting
or even at Goodwood. The bone won't
be knit firm enough to rely upon''

How did it happen?" inquired Sir
Marmaduke.

He was giving Pibroch a pretty sharp
gallop, and the lad, who was busy unheeding
Atalanta, threw the head-piece
over his shoulder — careless young idiot !
Pibroch shied badly at it, and shot
Blackton over his shoulder, and a broken
collar-bone was the result."

"It's deuced lucky, Pipes, I engaged
that lad Forrest to ride. I suppose we
must put him up."

There's nothing else for it, Sir Mar-mature.
I don't like putting a lad up
with so little experience, especially when
I hear you have got such a lot of money
on it. But he's as good as any one it's
possible to get now."

And the filly's all right, eh ? "

She's fit to run for her life, Sir Mar-mature,
and in my opinion should win.
One never can quite tell in a field of
youngsters, but you know how very high
we have tried ours, and I can only say,
if one turns up to beat her, it must be a
very, very smart colt, indeed."

I suppose all Newmarket knows about
Blackton's accident by this ? "

Yes ; and I daresay it's been wired
to town, besides, only on my way here
Broughton hailed me — he'd just arrived —
with * Filly all right, Pipes, I hope.
They're laying rather easier odds to-day
in London against her.' "

Ah ! gone back in the betting, has

she ? I hadn't time to go down to Tatter-sail's
before I left. Never mind, I'll stroll
down to the Rooms this evening, and if
any of the bookmakers open their mouths
too wide I'll have another thousand on."

Well, Sir Marmaduke," said the
trainer, as he took up his hat, " I can
only say Atalanta's good enough to win
nineteen Julyss out of twenty ; and, after
what we saw at Epsom, I reckon this lad
Forrest's good enough to win on the best
horse, and I fancy we shall see him doit
tomorrow. By the way, sir, if they
give him a chance in the Stewards' Cup
at Goodwood, and as third in the Two
Thousand, and only fourth in the Derby,
they can't put a big weight on him,
Pibroch ought to take a deal of doing.
He's wonderfully well just now."

"Ah, Pipes, time enough to think of
that when we've got through this meeting,
and carried off the Julyss."

"I hope we shan't be disappointed.
Good night, Sir Marmaduke.''

Now one of the first persons to know
of Blackton's mishap was Cuthbert Ellis-ton.
He had come down to Newmarket
after his wont on the Saturday, to take
stock of the morning gallops on the Sunday
and Monday, and pick up as much
information concerning the horses trained
on the heath as he could manage to come
by. He and his partner Sam Pearson
divided their duties somewhat in this
fashion. The lawyer, living at York,
chiefly superintended their horses at Riddleton,
and to him the collection of all
racing information from the northern
stables was entrusted. The horses at
Greyson's were chiefly owned jointly,
though each had one or two exclusively
his own individual property. They sometimes
differed about the policy of buying
this or that, and the Dancing Master had
become Elliston's exclusive property in
this wise, Pearson having no fancy for
the horse while his partner thought well
of him. To Elliston living in London,

and so within easy distance of Newmarket,
the gathering of news from the south-country
stables and most of their joint
betting transactions were intrusted, and
in watching the gallops on the Monday
he witnessed Blackton's mishap. Of
course, the two men constantly amalgamated,
Pearson usually coming south for
all important meetings, just as Elliston
went north for York and Doncaster. The
two partners differed in one thing — the
lawyer was very much the more cautious
of the two, and never could be persuaded
to play for such bold coups as his associate.
He might not win so big a stake
as Elliston, but then, on the other hand,
Sam Pearson never stood to be hit anything
like so hard as his associate.

Cuddie Elliston having had his quill-feathers
most ruthlessly plucked in the
days of his youth, had, when he turned
hawk, developed that overwhelming rapacity
that characterises the dog when it

VOL. II. G

takes to sheep worrying. Like that relentless
marauder, which will run a score of
sheep to death to gratify his carnal desire
for a leg of mutton, so would Elliston
stick at no trifles to arrive at the possession
of a hundred pounds ; and the more
tortuous and dubious the path that led
to its acquirement, the greater the fascination
the pursuit seemed to present to him.
To an old trite like Elliston the consequences
of Blackton's fall presented themselves
at once. He saw the fall was a
bad one, that the jockey was severely
shaken, and in all probability would not
be able to ride Atalanta the next day.
The thought at once flashed across Ellis-ton
what was to be got out of this. Of
course he was cm courant with all the
rumours concerning the Panton Lodge
crack, but none knew better than Elliston
what a difference the want of a capable
jockey might make to a horse's prospects.
He rapidly ran over in his mind who

Bobbin Pipes, as he called him, could get
to take Blackton's place. He knew the
riding obligations of all the leading horsemen
at Newmarket, and speedily arrived
at the conclusion that Mr. Pipes would
have to be content with a very inferior
artist in the saddle upon this occasion.
Now what was to be made of this little
bit of information that had come to him
early and unexpectedly ? To the majority
of men it would seem nothing, but Cuthbert
Elliston's scheming brain was not
long before it evolved something out of
the accident that might tend to its
owner's advantage.

There was in the Julyss a horse called
Newsmonger, about which Elliston possessed
excellent information. It had been
tried considerably above an average two-year-old,
and the stable were very sanguine
about its chance, should any mistake
have been made with regard to
Atalanta. Tom Croft, one of the 



dozen first-class horsemen of the day, was
the accredited jockey of the owner, and
Elliston at once jumped at the conclusion
that he would be something like 71bs.
better than any rider it was now possible
for the Panton Lodge people to get hold
of for their filly. Atalanta might be a
flyer ; but an artist like Croft, with a
clever colt like Newsmonger under him,
was quite likely to outride whatever boy
Mr. Pipes might now be able to pick up.
The deduction was obvious : he had
already backed Newsmonger for a little,
but now he would telegraph to town at
once, and go for a rattling good stake
upon that animal ; and Elliston rode
straight off to the office and acted at once
upon this inspiration. This it was that
had a depreciating effect upon the status
of Atalanta in the price-current on the
great turf exchange.

Elliston was very well pleased when
he found, on the arrival of the special,

that the filly had deteriorated in the
London turf market, and chuckled over
his own astuteness in having so promptly
taken advantage of the accident, thereby
procuring a longer price against Newsmonger
than was now obtainable ; but
when he strolled into the Rooms in the
evening he was destined to be somewhat
put out of conceit with the result of his
manoeuvre. At first it certainly seemed
as if Blackton's fall had brought about
the very consequences he had foreseen;
but he forgot, as people sometimes will,
that he had contributed not a little towards
the fulfilment of his own prophecy.
Atalanta was evidently not so firm a
favourite as she had been, while the
anxiety to back Newsmonger of course
brought about a rapid reduction in the
odds proffered against the Panton Lodge
filly. The babbling of tongues was a little
stilled about eleven by the entrance of Sir

Marmaduke ; the King watched eagerly
to see what he would do, for by this time
Blackton's accident was known to everyone,
and that Atalanta was without a
jockey was the current gossip of the
evening.

"Want to back yours, Sir Marmaduke?"
said a knowing little man with eyes like
gimlets in their capacity for going through
one. u Let me put you down two monkeys
to one once."

The baronet shook his head. Six to
four had been the best offer yesterday,
and now " Two to one Atalanta " resounded
through the room. Suddenly
the stentorian voice of a leviathan bookmaker
from the hardware country rose
high above the din with the cry of
u Here's five thousand to two Atalanta,
or any part of it'' Twice was the offer
repeated, apparently unheeded by Sir
Marmaduke, but hardly had the bold

speculator shouted his war-cry for the
third time than the baronet quietly rejoined,


"You can put it down to me. Ply ant,
and twice if you like."

But he of the hardware country shook
his head, as he answered, " Once is enough,
Sir Marniaduke."

(C I'll take two thousand to a thousand
Atalanta," roared Bob Broughton, and
with that the reaction set in like a mill-stream,
and another half-hour saw the
filly once more firmly established as first
favourite at her old price.

Have you heard whom they have got
to ride Atalanta ? " inquired Elliston of a
friend, who left the rooms with him.

No, and I'm puzzled to think who it
can be. It is so easy to say who it can't,
and I know Reason is going to run that
brute Hemlock, just to keep Job Temple
off the filly's back. He stands badly
against her, and has gone for Newsmonger,

and, as luck will have it, has
first call of Temple. He never dreamt
of running Hemlock, who is only half-trained,
till he heard of Blackton's accident.
Nevertheless, from the way Sir
Marmaduke snapped up Plyant, it looks
as if they had got hold of somebody they
consider good enough. However, the
baronet's always sanguine, and may be
they haven't after all."

Elliston as he walked home began to
fear that his speculation was not quite so
good as he had thought it. Still Sir
Marmaduke was a cool hand, and not
likely to blench at a slight fall in the
barometer. He had shown more than
once that he could meet disaster with
quite as unmoved a front as he could
victory, and, though young in years, was
already far too well versed in the vicissitudes
of the racecourse to expect the glass
always to be at set fair.

Jubilant was Jim Forrest that evening

when summoned by Mr. Pipes to an
audience at the Panton Lodge stables,
adjoining which the trainer's comfortable
house stood, to find for what he was
wanted. It was a great chance to be on
the crack of such a powerful stable in a
big two-year-old race like the July Stakes
and as he listened to Mr. Pipes's instructions
Jim felt that he was on the verge
of winning another step or two up the
ladder.

I reckon, Forrest, you'll have a tolerable
easy job, but remember men at the
top of your profession have fooled away
races again and again from over-belief of
that kind. Now pay attention to what I
say to you, and remember Sir Marmaduke
has a very big stake on the result. You're
going to ride on one I've tried as high as
ever I did try one, and I believe she's a
thorough stayer besides. I want you to
get well off, and take a good place from
the beginning, and keep it. Half-way up

the distance come right away, don't ride
her head off, but don't let any of the old
hands near you at the finish. It's no use
fighting a race out with them before you're
obliged. Some of the layers will wear
wry faces tomorrow when they see you
up. They've all heard of Blackton's accident,
and fancy we're fairly heaped for
some one to ride."

All right, Mr. Pipes," replied Forrest,
u there's no fear of my forgetting those
orders, and don't be afraid of my attempting
a fine finish unless I'm compelled."

66 He's grit, and will do his best," muttered
the trainer, as Jim took his departure,
"but that chap didn't begin in a
stable, I'll take my oath."

There was considerable excitement
when the saddling-bell rang next day for
the July Stakes. Atalanta was a hotter
favourite than ever, and Sir Marmaduke
had completely cowed the Being by accepting
fifteen hundred to a thousand about

her chance, and offering to go on. Most
of the leading bookmakers closed their
volumes as far as the filly was concerned,
and declined even to make an offer against
her. About who was to ride her there
was also much curiosity and equal mystery.
Those most closely connected with
the stable said truthfully that they did not
know, but that Sir Marmaduke declared
it was all right, and she would win easily,
and the baronet had endorsed this statement
by his transactions in the betting-ring
an hour ago. Up go the numbers,
and then all the world knows that it is
Jim Forrest who is going to ride Atalanta
a young jockey, it is true, still it is
fresh in the memory of all race goers that
he won the Two Thousand on a very
queer-tempered one, and fairly beat
Blackton himself in a ding-dong struggle
for third place at Epsom. Atalanta pleases
all judges who go to see her saddled
marvellously. She looks a galloper allover,

and is obviously trained to the hour.
Shorter and shorter grow the odds against
her, till at last she is fairly established at
evens against the field. The Newsmonger
men rather lose heart, and cease supporting
their horse in face of the way the
money is literally poured down upon the
Panton Lodge filly.

As he canters down to the post Jim
discovers with much satisfaction that he
has a much pleasant mount than he had
in the Two Thousand. Atalanta is a
perfect lady as regards her manners, and
behaves with the greatest propriety at the
post. At the first attempt the flag falls to
a capital start, and, the filly proving herself
a good beginner, enables Jim to take
a prominent place in the van. At the distance
the comfortable conviction begins
to steal over him that he holds his field
safe, but riding strictly to orders he comes
clean away half-way up, and, although
Newsmonger makes a gallant effort in

Py croft's practised hands to come away
with him, he holds his own but for a few
strides, and then drops back completely
out-paced, leaving Atalanta to run home
an easy winner by three lengths.

Backers are for the most part jubilant,
but the Ring receive the hoisting of the
filly's number with that moody silence
wont to steal over them for the moment
when heavily hit, and that Sir Marmaduke
and his friends have taken a very large
stake out of the fielders is well known.
The Panton Lodge stable held it one of
the best things " they had had for many
a day, and their chief and his followers
were very dashing betters at any time.

A queer look of dismay came over
Elliston's face when he saw who was to
ride Atalanta. He thought of what Pearson
had said at the Spring Meeting. Was
this boy destined to cross him at every
turn, and avenge his father ? He felt
intuitively that he would win the Julyss,

although there was no great sagacity
necessary to come to that conclusion, for
although unable all the morning to discover
who was to ride Atalanta he had
learnt that she possessed the implicit confidence
of the stable, that she was very
good-tempered and tractable, and, in
short, was an animal, to use the stereotyped
phrase, that a child could ride.
Elliston had seen quite enough already of
Jim Forrest in the saddle not to doubt his
ability to do justice to Sir Marmaduke's
filly, and backed it also for a little at the
last. It was not that he had had such a
very bad race, but he is haunted with the
superstition that the strange apparition of
Gerald Rockingham on the racecourse is
destined to work his destruction.

CHAPTER VI.

"how very disgraceful."

Miss Rockingham was sadly put out when
she thought over her brother's relation
with Dollie. For a gentleman in Gerald's
position, she little guessed what it really
was, to keep up such a farce as this flirtation
with Bill Grey son's daughter was not
only absurd, but in very bad taste to
boot ; besides, he might find himself in a
very awkward scrape if he was not careful.
Dollie no doubt was a designing minx,
and, for the life of her, Ellen could never
have been made to see that a penniless
Rockingham, without a settled design for
earning his own living, was no great catch

after all for even a girl like Dollie. How
was she to get hold of Gerald's address ?
It was high time somebody spoke seriously
to him about the miserable entanglement.
Ellen, despite that she thoroughly recognised
the change their father's death and
altered circumstances had wrought in
Gerald, still could not quite resign the
ascendancy of an elder sister. Two or
three years' seniority at one time of life
represent at least half-a-dozen between
sister and brother, and the former is
occasionally slow to understand the latter
claiming independence. We have all
experience of some relatives who steadfastly
ignore that we have grown up, and
pester us with unasked-for advice till their
or our own course be run.

However, what Miss Rockingham might
have to say to her brother necessarily
remained for the present unsaid, though
whether that is altogether to the benefit
of the future recipient I am not clear.

Sometimes, there is no doubt, the dose
of good advice stored up for us evaporates
; sometimes circumstances occur that
point out the futility of administering
it ; but there are times when it takes a
cumulative tendency, and then no power
can prevent the possessor from favouring
us with the result of such thoughtful interest
on our behalf.

Ellen was crossing St. Helen's Square
one morning, still pondering over what
Gerald might be doing, and why he
should make a mystery of his proceedings,
when she ran across John Thorndyke.

Good morning, Miss Rockingham !
Have you seen what a wonderful house
Mr. Grandson is building out towards
Comb? You don't know him, I suppose
? "

Only by name. He is one of the new
people about here, is he not ? Made his-money
as a manufacturer, I think."

"Yes; but the family is well known

VOL. II. H

round York, where they have been yeoman
farmers for generations. This is the
first of them who, conforming to the
spirit of the age, has left the traditional
groove, and made his fortune by so
doing."

I am rather conservative in my ideas,
and prefer seeing people do their duty in
that station of life to which Providence
has called them," replied Ellen, coldly.

"You are putting a wrong interpretation
on that sentence, and you know
it, 5 ' rejoined Thorndyke seriously. "The
mass of mankind have to earn their
bread ; and, according to their capabilities,
so does the choice rest with them how
they will do it, and, providing they conscientiously
do their best in the path they
have chosen, so are they doing their
duty."

"You misunderstand me, Mr. Thorn-dyke,"
said Ellen, in some confusion at
the rebuke she felt she had well merited.

I only meant that I am opposed to what
is termed in these days the fusion of
classes."

Ah ! it's useless swimming against the
stream. All that rigid demarcation of
classes is a thing of the past ; clean gone,
Miss Rockingham. Dukes put their sons
into trade in these times, and cotton-spinners
wed with the Peerage, while —
strangest caprice of all — I see by the
papers that a young fellow of good family
is actually getting his living at Newmarket
as a jockey''

How very disgraceful ! " said Ellen.

si Well, I don't know ; I presume he
found he had it to get, and perhaps it
was the work he was best fitted for. Anyway
you will admit it to be more honourable
than living on his friends."

"Yes; but it's shocking to think of a
gentleman in such a menial situation."

I don't go racing now," rejoined
Thorndyke; "but, from all I hear, jockeys

li 2

don't view themselves at all in that light.
The present generation of racing-men have
utterly spoilt them by treating them almost
as equals ; their heads have been
turned ; and a more arrogant set of little
monkeys, I am told, don't exist. Still,
Miss Rockingham, apropos to the newspaper
canard, which is probably mere
gossip, with no basis of truth in it ; when
a man, especially a gentleman, is suddenly
called on from circumstances to get his
own bread and cheese, it isn't, believe mea
matter of choice. For the most part he
has to take such work as falls to his hand,
and that he feels competent to cope with."
a Yes ; and it is that which makes us so
uneasy about my brother. That we are a
ruined family you must, of course, have
heard. We're too well known in the East
'Riding for our troubles not be county talk,
and I may confess to you as a friend, if
you will allow me to call you so — thanks,
Mr. Thorndyke, but I don't require protestations'

interrupted Ellen, as the
rector was about to make vigorous protest
of his assenting — "that we can neither
make out what Gerald is doing, nor where
he is."

It is almost superfluous to say, Miss
Eockingham, that I would help you if I
could ; but, further than the fact that you
do possess a younger brother, I know
nothing''

"Not likely you would," replied Ellen,
with a faint smile ; " not likely you will ;
but, should accident throw any information
in your way concerning him, please
don't forget how anxious I am to learn
something about him. His not writing is
so inexplicable."

You may depend upon me, Miss
Rockingham," said John Thorndyke, ashe
raised his hat.

Sometimes Ellen wished she could see
Dollie again. It was possible if they met,
she thought, that the girl might take a less

defiant attitude, although the termination
of their last interview left little hope that
such would be the case. Still Ellen felt
that she had one opening which would
enable her to recur to the subject. She
could always inquire if Dollie had got
Gerald's permission to divulge his address,
as it was still required by his lawyers.
This trainer's daughter, who quoted
Tennyson, who claimed to be on an
equality with herself, and who, she had
no doubt, actually considered herself engaged
to Gerald, was a phenomenon that
Ellen could not understand. Mrs. Rockingham
was getting more reconciled to
her modest lodgings now, not but what
she had borne her reverses courageously
from the first. Still it is a great trial for a
woman who has been all her life mistress
of a large establishment to come down to
four or five rooms and her maid. She
must necessarily miss the gardens, the
flowers, the carriages, and all the superfluities

which long habit has made part
and parcel of her existence. We can do
without these things, but once accustomed
to them we miss them sorely if misfortune
compels us to give them up. Do you remember
what Sam Slick said about selling
his clocks? "It's soft sawder gets 'em
into the house and human nature keeps
'em there." His plan was to persuade the
housewives just to allow him to leave one
of his clocks with them till he came round
again, as a convenience to himself, he
having too many with him. By the time
he came their way again they had got
used to the comfort of a clock on the
mantelpiece, and bought it sooner than
lose it.

Society, too, in York — and there is
usually some pleasant society in a
cathedral town — was excessively civil to
the Rockingham. They were well known
and much sympathised with in their fallen
fortunes, and, though there could be no

doubt that the late Squire had wrought
his own ruin by his carelessness and extravagance,
yet he had been always a
popular man, and it was widely whispered
that his weaknesses had been taken much
advantage of both by his cousin and his
solicitor. Then the mysterious disappearance
of Gerald was another reason why
people should make much of Mrs. Rockingham
and her daughter, for, of course, it
had leaked out that he had left Cambridge,
and that neither his mother nor sister
knew where he was. Society jumping to a
conclusion after the hasty and airy manner
in which society usually elucidates any
little problem of this nature, that is to say,
without any positive knowledge of the
premises, deduces that Gerald Rockingham
has behaved disgracefully, that he
has abandoned those it was his bounden
duty to protect, and probably taken to
dissolute courses. Society, as a whole,
sweetly ignores that a University career

is not to be achieved without money, or
that if we have to earn our living in
humble fashion it adds bitterness to the
bread of adversity to earn it where we
have previously figured as one of the privileged
who "toil not neither do they
spin." The consequence of all this was
that Mrs. Eockingham and Ellen in a quiet
way went out a good deal ; the widow
being urged thereto in the first place
principally by her daughter, who thought
rightly that nothing could be worse for
her than that she should brood too much
upon the past. All this had, of course,
been very gradual, and it was only during
the last two months or so that Mrs. Rockingham
had been induced to emerge from
her seclusion.

Mr. Durnford had done what a clever,
well-to-do man of the world was sure todo,
and become a leading star in the new
social sphere upon which he had entered.
As before said, the new canon's little

dinners soon began to be talked about.
When a man is not only a gourmet and a
brilliant talker, but understands the mixing
of his guests as thoroughly as the
mixing of his salads, his feasts imprint
themselves on men's minds. In this
world of dreary and indifferent dinners it
is something to look back upon those in
which both our intellects and senses were
gratified. Men have obtained celebrity
for conferring much more dubious benefit
on their fellow-creatures ; but Mr. D urn-ford
was thoroughly appreciated by those
whom he honoured with his intimacy. He
had taken a great fancy both to John
Thorndyke and Ellen Rockingham, and
they were frequently of the canon's
weekly dinner-party ; and so it was that
they had come to see a good deal of each
other of late.

That Mr. Thorndyke, with his advanced
liberal views, should occasion
Miss Eockingham considerable astonishment

was natural. She could hardly,
swathed in her narrow sectarian ideas,
understand a clergyman having such
opinions ; but what surprised her more
than anything was that a man like Mr.
Durnford, a canon of York minster, and
a supposed decidedly High Churchman,
should agree with the Radical rector of
St. Olave's. Still, she could not resist
admiring Thorndyke for the consistency
and audacity of his freely expressed convictions
; and that they should be to a
considerable extent endorsed by Mr.
Durnford gave them additional weight
with her. This morning she had advanced
a step further and given him her confidence
also.

CHAPTER VII.

AN UGLY WARNING.

Cuthbert Elliston has returned from
Newmarket by no means the better either
in temper or pocket for the excursion.
The successes of last year so far show no
signs of being repeated, and, although
there is plenty of time yet before the
termination of the year's racing for fortune
to turn, Elliston feels unaccountably
nervous and uneasy about the future. He
cannot divest himself of the idea that
Gerald is destined to work his ruin. He
has been perilously near that consummation
upon more than one occasion, and
looked it unflinchingly in the face, extricating

himself from his difficulties by
some not very scrupulous piece of audacity
; but, like all gamblers, he was superstitious.
All racing men know what it is
to cl strike a streak of bad luck." Now
there are times when it seems impossible
for them to win, do what they may ; and
they are all prone to account for it by
some adverse influence. One well-known
owner of an extensive training-establishment
I remember, who firmly believed
there would be no luck attend his jacket
if the silk was not of the exact hue. A
shade too dark, or too light, he believed
to be fatal ; and the material was invariably
procured from a particular shop in
Paris.

We all know how a jockey loves, if
possible, in a big race to don an old
jacket for luck — to wear at Epsom the
garment in which be has already snatched
the blue ribbon for his employer. Cuthbert
Elliston could not shake off the

feeling that Gerald in the saddle meant
disaster to him — Elliston. His letters lie
by his plate unopened, and his tea is still
untouched, as he moodily turns over the
pages of a small morocco-bound volume
which contains the records of the past
week's transactions; does the Recording
Angel keep a grimmer ledger than those
dainty little books present at times for
some of us ? — I trow not.

Yes, I've a good bit of money to find
for this afternoon," he muttered, " and I
ought to have been a winner, too; but
my luck's clean out. They always run
good seconds when I back them ; whenever
I see that young whelp's black face
I know I shan't do right. Who the devil
could have thought when I hurled that
taunt at him at Cranley, and recommended
him to turn pad-groom or gamekeeper,
that he would take to race-riding for his
living, and that Bill Grey son, of all men,
should be the one to give him his first

mount, and that it should be on a horse
of mine. Now for these," and he turned
to his letters. "Hum! 'In great want
of money — begs to forward his Michaelmas
account;' as if there ever was any one
who wasn't in great want of money.
6 Will I put young Littleton up for the
Pantheon ? ? Well, I suppose I must. It
won't matter ; supercilious young beast !
I'll take very good care he don't get in.
6 Pibroch is galloping great guns ; keep
your eye on him at Goodwood. They
mean business with him in one of the
handicaps. — Yours truly, Joe Stubbs.'
He's a sharp fellow in his vocation, Stubbs,
and his hint's worth attending to. I suppose
my cursed cousin will have the
mount. Ah ! what the deuce can this
blue envelope, addressed in such formal
handwriting, mean ? Looks rather like
a lawyer's letter ; post-mark, York. It
isn't Pearson's handwriting. I mistrust

such documents ; " and, as he spoke, he
tore open the letter : —

Parliament Street, York,

a Dear Sir, —

As I am authorised by Gerald
Rockingham to administer the estate of
his father, the late Alister Rockingham, I
must call your attention to sundry bills
of yours, long since due, amounting, with
interest thereon at five per cent., to an
aggregate of 6,8 47 1. I inclose particulars
of the dates of the said bills, and their
several amounts ; and shall be glad of a
remittance for their liquidation at your
earliest convenience.
I am, sir,

Your obedient servant,
"Theophilus Writson.''
Cuthbert Elliston gives vent to so
savage an execration as he finishes this
missive that his wife cannot help exclaiming,
" You have bad news, Cuthbert."

Yes' he retorts roughly ; " men don't
invoke such blessings as I have just done
over pleasant communications."

But Mrs. Elliston was too weather-wise
to pursue the conversation. She knew
her lord's face far too well. The glass had
shown unmistakeable signs of depression
as he pondered over his betting-book, and
had now dropped to-set stormy." To
carry on the metaphor, experience had
taught Mrs. Elliston the wisdom of running
before the gale ; and, without further
questioning, she quietly beat a retreat.

I knew that boy was destined to be
my evil star," muttered Elliston. " So,
though he never alluded to them, Alister
never destroyed those bills; and now they
have fallen into Gerald's bands, who is
not likely to imitate his father's forbearance.
How they have mounted up to
that infernal compound interest — trust a
lawyer for having computed them at that
and some of them have been running

a good bit now ; almost past the statute
of limitations," he continued with a
cynical smile ; "it may be quite. I don't
know whether I can't dispute them. I
must see Pearson about them. 1 don't
pay close on 7,000£. if I can help it. They
think I'm in funds now; that I had a
good year last year. So I had ; but it
was a more up-and-down one than people
fancied. If I won a good stake over
Caterham for the Guineas, I lost a raker
over him for the Derby. The world
always trumpets a man's winnings, and,
as a rule, magnifies them ; but, like himself,
it is mute about his losings. It wasn't
till Phaeton won the Leger I made a real
haul ; and this season has knocked a good
deal of it down."

Elliston was so far right. A man's
reverses on the turf are talked about in
absurd disproportion to his winnings.
Apropos of this, I knew a man who dated
his ruin from landing 3,000/. over Gladiator's

Derby. " I got the credit of having
won ten," he would murmur plaintively,
" and every one I owed money
to — and they were many— thought the
time for cutting up the victim had arrived,
that he would' never wax fatter. Telling
them the real state of the case, and that
I dropped two-thirds of it again, entirely
in their interests, at Ascot, only occasioned
derisive incredulity, and they went
for the carcass like the vultures of the
East. They smashed me, and benefited
themselves but little."

Elliston rapidly made up his mind that
on the matter of those bills it was necessary
that he should have his partner's
advice. Pearson had not directly benefited
by them, though, as he had managed
the raising money to meet them for the
late Squire when they became due, it is
quite possible that he had fairish pickings
out of the transaction. Sam Pearson had
seen more than one sporting spendthrift



through his patrimony, and, whatever
they might do, he apparently throve upon
it "Go to Pearson, he'll see you through
it, he never makes difficulties," was quite
a stereotyped cry amongst the impecunious
of Yorkshire, and it was quite true,
as long as there was any security, Pearson
would and did find the money at very
short notice, but the victims themselves
hardly liked to allude to the price they
paid for it. "Going to Pearson!" was
indeed usually the beginning of the end.

Elliston determined that he would run
up to York. To day he had to attend
at Tattersall's, for he was a man who
never employed commissioners, but did
his own betting transactions, but tomorrow
he would be off to consult Pearson.
They could run over to Riddleton, too,
have a look at the horses, and a talk with
Bill Greyson. If these bills really had
to be met it would be necessary to go fora
coup at Goodwood. He telegraphed to

Pearson to say he was leaving town by
the midday train, and asking that worthy
to give him bed and dinner. The lawyer
was used to such sudden visits on the
part of his partner, and was quite prepared
to welcome him — had thought, indeed,
that he would probably turn up
that week if only to assist at the council
of war which must be inevitably held
concerning the great Sussex meeting. An
you keep racehorses and gamble not for
the prizes at Goodwood, what are you to
play for? Newmarket, Epsom, Ascot,
Goodwood, Doncaster, and York are the
battle-fields of the big men, who leave
the gate-money meetings and the provinces
for the smaller fry.

u And now, Pearson, I have got a little
matter of my own I want to consult you
about," said Elliston, after discussing a
quiet little dinner with his partner, and
then he showed him Mr. Writson's letter.
Now, these bills, you see, amount to a

pretty stiff sum, and, legally, I presume,
they can't recover on them. Alister, of
course, met them when they became due,
and that cancelled them''

Yes ; they were met, I remember
perfectly well, and that Writson can't
take proceedings against you on them he
knows as well as I do. They resolve
themselves simply into a debt due by
you to A lister Rockingham ; and these
bills being found amongst his papers
testify to its never having been paid.
Morally, I suppose you ought to pay it to
his creditors or his son, more especially
as his family is left so poorly off. Legally,
you are safe, but socially it might
prove a formidable weapon in the hands
of any one of sufficient status to use it
effectively. This boy Gerald is too young
and in no position to wield it, but if some
of his father's old friends should take it
up they might make things very unpleasant
for you."

Cuthbert Elliston was quite aware that
his present position in the world was much
too shaky to bear being further compromised.
Society is lenient in the extreme
concerning turf tactics, will shut
its eyes to much sharp practice in such
matters, but Elliston had been mixed up
in some two or three affairs that were
voted too bad for even the easy turf
morality of the present day. Old Lord
Whitby, a staunch racing-man of the old
school, had even gone so far on one occasion
as to declare that " the fellow ought
to be warned off the Heath, and that it
was like his confounded impudence to
show his face in the Royal Enclosure,
under the very noses of the Jockey Club,
after such a disgraceful fraud as that
Calliope business."

Elliston knew that there had been much
commiseration expressed for Alister Rockingham's
sad ending, and that, had the

world an inkling of how much he, Cuthbert,
had had to do with it, public opinion
would run high against him.

"Yes," he replied, at last, "I suppose
they could, but I don't fancy Gerald is
known to, or at all events remembered
by, any of them. They are not likely to
discover him under his present alias, and
the young beggar's pride will prevent him
disclosing his real name."

Don't deceive yourself," returned the
attorney, quietly. " The leaking out that
Jim Forrest and Gerald Rockingham are
one is only a matter of time. All such
things are. Suppose old Whitby took him
up, and then came to know of those
bills?"

Confound it! I'm not in a position
to stand another show-up, and old Whitby
was more strong than polite in his expressed
opinion about that Calliope business.
Talked about a gentleman's obligations

not being on the same level as a
leg's, &c. Old fool ! As if I kept horses
for his gratification or the public's."

Very good ! I think you're right when
you admit that .the story of those bills is
an ugly anecdote to have in circulation
about one'

Perhaps so," rejoined Elliston, irritably,
" but I'm not going to pay close on
seven thousand pounds for its suppression
all the same."

"No. I don't propose you shall. You
must put yourself in my hands, and see
what sort of a compromise I can arrange
with Writson. He knows very well he
can hope for nothing more, and I daresay
a couple of thousand would settle the
thing comfortably."

One is quite enough to pay for such
waste paper as that," returned Elliston,
sullenly.

Pearson looked at his partner with

almost a contemptuous expression for a
moment, and then said :

u Of course, you know best what your
position is worth. What I, Sam Pearson,
the racing money-lending attorney, do
matters little. The world regards me as a
compound of leg and money-lender, but
even I haven't got quite such an awkward
story on record against me as yours.

Never mind," he continued, rapidly,
seeing Elliston was about to speak, " I'll
drive the best bargain I can for you, and
then it will rest for yourself as to whether
you take it or leave it. By the way, I'd
not forget one thing, if I were you.
Forrest, as he calls himself, is now engaged
to Sir Marmaduke, and he stands,
rumour has it, pretty staunchly to his
followers."

Why, you don't mean to hint that he
would take him up as Gerald Rockingham?"
ejaculated Elliston. " He's no
old friend of Alister's."

No. But, from what I've seen of him,
he's just the man to do it, and that he will
find out who his jockey really is I regard
as a certainty, sooner or later."

"Well it's no use discussing an unpleasant
subject further'' growled Ellis-ton.
" To-morrow we'll drive over to
Riddleton, and hear what old Bill's got
to say."

CHAPTER IX.

LEASING A RACEHORSE.

She's a monstrous pretty girl, that
daughter of Greyson's," remarked Ellis-ton
to his companion as they rattled along
the road that led from the quiet little
country station up to the farm-house that
laid nestling among the fir-trees on the
edge of the moor ; " and as vain and
pleased with flattery as any other of her
sex, I take it."

"Yes; they're all much of a muchness
in that way," replied Pearson. "She
inherits her good looks from her mother ;
and Mrs. Greyson is insatiable as regards
compliments on her personal appearance,
you know well."

Elliston smiled. He had been a lady-killer

in his day, and was by no means
out of the hunt yet. A tall, fine-looking
man, even if the dark hair was shot with
silver. Mrs. Grey son had always shown
much gratification at the airy incense it
amused the ex-guardsman to burn at her
shrine ; but whether she would appreciate
his extending his admiration to her
daughter was very questionable. Coquettish
mothers seldom admire that attribute
in their daughters, and are apt to accuse
them of it even when there is no cause.

Muslin's dangerous about a racing
stable," continued the attorney, sententiously.
" They wheedle information out
of soft-hearted pumpkins out of sheer
devilment, and then some limber tongued
scamp wheedles it out of them ; the fat's
in the fire, and we're all in ' the cart.'
Not that Bill Greyson's likely to trust
his womankind with much knowledge,
however they may hunger to nibble at
the tree."

Mr. Pearson's last speech was somewhat
enigmatical, except in its conclusion, and
in that the attorney was to some extent
mistaken. The trainer was more open
with his wife and daughter than Mr.
Pearson supposed.

No," replied Cuthbert ; -" but here weare,
and there he is, all ready no doubt
to unfold his budget. — How are you,
Greyson? hope the nags look as fit as
you do. As for you, Mrs. Greyson, you
stopped Time's clock on the day I first
saw you. How are you, Dollie ? You
grow prettier, child, every time I see you.
What are the young fellows in York
about," he continued, dropping his voice,
that they ever let you come back to
Riddleton ? Why, I dropped into your
uncle's shop last night, on the chance of
seeing you, expecting to find a knot of
youngsters ruining themselves in gloves,
for the sake of your beaux yeux

"Ha!" laughed Dollie; "you see he

doesn't happen to be in York just now ;
so I thought I might as well come home''
and the girl gave a coquettish toss of her
head that was promptly taken note of by
Mrs. Grey son.

Her mother's own daughter," thought
Elliston.

I hope he is thoroughly eligible," said
Cuthbert, smiling ; u or else, Dollie, I
shall feel it my duty to forbid the banns."

u Why, what have you to do with it ? "
asked the girl, demurely.

Everything ! Haven't I been in love
with you from your cradle ? and you
don't suppose I'll give you up if I don't
approve ? And I shall be hard to satisfy
that any one is quite good enough for
you."

u Ah ! but that is a question that more
nearly concerns me," returned Dollie ;
and is a point on which I intend to
judge for myself when the time comes,"
and as she spoke she wondered what Mr.

Elliston would say had he the slightest
idea of her engagement to Gerald.

u You've come over to settle what I'd
best take to Goodwood, I suppose," said
the trainer. " I've eased Caterham in his
work lately, so that he won't be at concert-pitch
2 you even decide to send him."

I think he had better go," replied
Elliston, meditatively. " We can't keep
horses to look at; but we'll talk about that
presently," and he glanced significantly
towards Mrs. Grey son.

The trainer quietly telegraphed to his
wife, who, murmuring something about
seeing after the luncheon, left the room,
accompanied by Dollie.

Yes," chimed in Pearson ; " a gallop
at Goodwood will do the horse good, and
we needn't back him, you know. How's
the Dancing Master ? "

"Ah!" exclaimed Elliston. "I little
knew what a flyer I was giving you when
I told you you should have him if lie won

the ' Guineas.' You will have a shy with
him at Goodwood, I suppose ? "

No, sir'' replied the trainer, quietly,
I think not. The colt never was better;
but the fact isj gentlemen, I aren't show
him. You know what he is. He ran
away with the Two Thousand, and refused
to try a yard at Epsom. He would probably
do the latter again at Goodwood,
and, as my object is to sell him, the less
he is seen on a racecourse the better'

Quite right!" grinned Elliston. " He
is a sort that will break two or three
owners before some one has the commonsense
to shoot and bury him. Now to
what we really are concerned about.
Phaeton, I fancy, ought to have a chance
in one of the big handicaps. It depends,
of course, upon what they put him in at ;
but his one performance was winning the
Leger. He's all right, eh ? "

Yes," answered the trainer, slowly,
he's right enough; but a Leger's a

VOL. II. K

Leger, and I don't think they are likely
to give him a very ' gaudy chance.' ''

Phaeton is a horse' observed Elliston,
sententiously, (i that can carry weight
well. And, like many another good horse,
can do a big thing over a short distance.
I want to win a good stake', and we shall
not be able to get a long price about the
horse if he should tickle the public fancy.
My idea is that in this case he will not.
They are pretty sure to think he has too
much weight assigned him for one thing,
and as a Leger winner consider staying
his forte for another. They are not
likely to back him over one of these short-distanced
handicaps. We might pick up
a lot of money with him over the
Stewards' Cup if the handicapper should
prove good-natured''

"Well, sir, that's all simple enough.
The horse had better go to Goodwood,
and whether he is worth backing or not
we shall know when we see the weights."

That's settled, then," said Pearson,
"and, as for the young ones, they must,
of course, go and do the best they can ;
but I'm afraid our two-year-olds this year
might be briefly summed up as rubbish."

There's a race in one or two of them''
replied the trainer, "but they are not
much good, and if they do win it will
only be because the others are precious
bad."

"You haven't had an offer then yet
for the Dancing Master, eh ? " inquired
Pearson.

No ; I can't altogether say I have, sir.
Bob Broughton's been a nibbling at him,
but, of course, that wouldn't be for himself,
and who he's acting for I can't exactly
make out, but I'm given to understand
I shall hear more about it at Goodwood ;
bound to, if it's a bid worth having,"
continued the trainer, with a quiet smile.
"A young gentleman with a brand-new
jacket, and mad to see his colours first

past the post at Doncaster, is the sort
of customer I want ! Lord, Mr. Elliston,
what sums we have seen young gentlemen
give for a horse to win a Derby or Leger
with ! "

He's not a horse I should care to buy,
Greyson," said the attorney, " but I shall
trust him with a little money if he runs
for the St. Leger. It's the only way to
deal with animals like that. Their precious
tempers insure there always being
a longish price against them, and they
seldom go sick or sorry, and one never
can tell they may not take it into their
heads to run clean away with a race."

Backing the zero at roulette I know
has a fascination for some people, but I
should have thought, Sam, it was a weakness
that you, at all events, had got over.
Greyson's a better judge, and knows he
can't be out of the Dancing Master too
soon. Now give us some lunch and a
glass of dry sherry in which to drink good

luck to ourselves all round at Goodwood,
and then I must be off. I want to get
back to town to-night."

Always a sanguine man in his racing
speculations, Elliston had never been
gayer than he was over that lunch. He
had that unaccountable, unnatural hilarity
which our Scotch neighbours call "fey,"
which is always held a presage of some
great disaster. A decorous edition of the
Feast of Belshazzar, and on which the writing
on the wall is invisible, as it was ages
ago to the Eastern potentate. He complimented
Mrs. Grey son, joked Dollie
about what he considered that mythical
York lover, promised her a bracelet if
Phaeton won the Stewards' Cup, smacked
his lips over a glass of curac^oa, and then
lighting one of Bill Greyson's best
Cabins, with an airy wave of his hand
to his wife and daughter, sped southward
to the lists on the Sussex Downs as
blithely as Ivanhoe to those of Ashy.

The last days of July are come, the
sweets and bitters of the season have been
drained to the dregs. Unwilling milliners
have been coaxed into throwing yet more
bread upon the waters, and furnish unmarried
beauty with armour for a final
appearance in the melee. That gallant
and light-hearted band of society's darlings
who think that their bills at Mitchell's,
dinners at Long's, accounts for
broughams, gloves, bouquets, and every
other of the menusplaisirs that it is possible
to have "put down," are to be
settled by successful racing speculation,
have " pulled themselves together" for the
Sussex fortnight. " Just clear the slate
off a bit, old chappie, and then we can go
and shoot grouse with a clear conscience."
They don't do it, but how delicious that
springtime of youth is when it all looks
feasible ! Later on we know what playing
for the last stake means, and can see the

fatal deuce-ace, "the dog's throw," before
the dice have left the box.

Two notable things characterised the
turf market at the opening of the Good-wood
meeting". One was a strong disposition
to back the Dancing Master for the
Leger, emanating, the Ring declared,
from nobody knew who — certainly not
from the stable, as those connected with
the horse simply derided the idea of supporting
him. Bill Broughton, certainly,
seemed to think it worth his while to take
a thousand to eighty occasionally, but
Bob was known to be a speculative backer
at times, as well as bookmaker, to say
nothing of having countless commissions
on hand.

Another thing was that the gambling
on the Stewards' Cup promised to surpass
all precedent. Sir Marmaduke and his
followers kept on backing Pibroch as if
his defeat was impossible, and all racing-men

concurred that he was very favourably
weighted, but still many thought that
the race was by no means a gift to him.
Several other horses were strongly fancied
by their respective partisans, and, amongst
others, the small coterie usually associated
with Bill Greyson's " good' things " were
very pronounced in their support of
Phaeton. Still there was nobody who
bet on the large scale of Sir Marmaduke
and his immediate followers, and old
racing-men stood aghast at the way the
Baronet would fill ujd three or four pages
of his betting-book in as many minutes
when he really was sweet upon his
chance.

With regard to the first of these mild
mystifications, the following record of a
conversation that took place between Sir
Marmaduke and old Bill Greyson, in a
pretty little cottage at Singleton, a hamlet
about a mile from the Grand Stand, may
afford some explanation : —

Broughton tells me you want to seeme,
Sir Marmaduke," said the trainer, ashe
entered the quiet little dining-room in
which it was evident the Baronet had
eaten a solitary dinner.

Sit down, Mr. Greyson," he began
with. Ci Yes, I do want to see you,"
he continued, as the trainer complied.
Broughton tells me the Dancing Master
is for sale, at a price. Can you warrant
him sound ? "

I never warrant a horse, Sir Armature
; but he is sound in wind and limb,
and any veterinary surgeon you choose to
name is welcome to look him over."

The Baronet lit a fresh cigarette, and
then said carelessly, " What do you want
for him ? "

Ten thousand," rejoined the trainer,
gravely.

I should doubt your getting that,"
rejoined Sir Marmaduke ; "at all events
it's beyond my mark."

And yet rumour says you gave that
sum for Bushranger, who didn't win the
Two Thousand, while my horse did,"
observed Greyson.

Which only shows I paid too much
for Bushranger," replied the Baronet, by
no means to be thrown off his sangfroid
even by so old a hand as the Riddleton
trainer. " I am anxious to avoid a repetition
of that mistake. Now your horse hasa
temper unmistakeably, and that knocks
money off him. Never mind fencing ; in
one word, what's the lowest will buy
him ? "

Bill Greyson looked at the Baronet
with no little inward astonishment; the
insouciant young gentleman was outside
his experience. Most of the neophytes
with whom he had had to deal were
enthusiastic, sanguine, and utterly blind
to the spots in the sun of their desires.

Yes, Sir Marmaduke," he said at last ;
he has a temper, and, if it wasn't for

that, I wouldn't 'bate a pound, as I
honestly believe him to be the best three-year-old
I ever trained. One word, as
you say, and have done with it. He's
yours for nine thousand ; and that's the
last I have to say about it."

Won't suit, Greyson," replied the
Baronet, promptly, as he lit another
cigarette ; u wait a moment while I think
it out, and I'll tell you what will'' A
pause of two or three minutes, and then
he continued, " I won't buy ; but I tell
you what I'll do. I'll lease the Dancing
Master for the remainder of this year and
the next ; the horse to revert to you again
then. Terms, five thousand pounds, and
half of every stake he wins. He will be a
rare good horse to you under those conditions
if he takes it into his head to run
honest ; and quite bad enough one to me
if he don't."

It's a bargain, Sir Marmaduke," replied
Greyson ; " and a liberal one on

your side I'm bound to confess. I'll send
for the horse at once, and hand him over
to Pipes."

You'll do nothing of the sort'' replied
Sir Marmaduke ; " that's by no means
part of my scheme. I want him to remain
under your charge ; and no one to know
that the horse has changed hands. You
understand ? "

"I think so," replied the trainer.
You can make more money out of him,
Sir Marmaduke, if he is not known to be
yours. He's to do his best for the Leger,
of course ? "

The best we can make him. You can
have a little of my book if you take further
interest in him. Forrest, the boy
who rode him in the Two Thousand, as
you know, I have now first call of. I
shall give him the mount at Doncaster ;
the colt seems to run better in his hands
than any one's."

"It's awkward, Sir Marmaduke ; but
my employers insist that Jim Forrest
does no more riding for Riddleton, and
I've my own reasons for not wishing him
about my place myself."

Odd, that," replied the Baronet; "I
should have thought he did you all a good
turn at Newmarket, and he can ride, mind
you. Now Greyson," he said, rather
sharply, u if our bargain holds good, who
I put up is nothing to you or your employers.
He rides my horse, which you
train, and he need never come near
Riddleton."

The trainer thought for a moment, and
then said, " You're right, Sir Marmaduke,
he's my horse even if you cry off your
bargain, and I've a right to give the
mount on him for the Leger to whom I
like. All right ! I'll do my very best to
send him to Doncaster fit. In whose
hands you put him for the race will be,

of course, no affair of mine, but Forrest
knows him, and from what I hear and
have seen he's quite good enough."

All right! " replied the Baronet. " Remember
the Dancing Master's not wanted
till the Leger, and I shall conclude he's
going on perfectly well unless I hear from
you to the contrary. As for the money,
just send me a memorandum of where you
want it paid."

Thank you, Sir Marmaduke, and now
I'll say good night. I wish you all
possible luck with Pibroch in the Stewards'
Cup, but it's only fair to tell you we expect
to beat you with Phaeton. We mean it,
and ours is very well."

Thanks, Grey son ! " replied the Baronet,
dismissing the trainer with a
friendly nod, and once more plunging into
dissection of the forthcoming handicaps.
If there was one horse in the race that
figured in the betting he felt sure of beating

it was the winner of last year's Leger,
and yet Phaeton's trainer indubitably believed
in him. Well, that might be, but
he would stand by his own opinion. The
great question was, how was he to make
the best of his St. Leger hand. His own
horse Pibroch he felt sure couldn't stay.
From information he had received he
doubted Comet's standing a Leger preparation.
He would make a book for the
Dancing Master and commence operations
tomorrow.

Never had Sir Marmaduke and the
reckless spirits that followed his lead had
a more roseate time than that Goodwood
week. The cruel fortune that had stuck
like a burr to Mr. Pipes's stable all through
the spring seemed to have departed. Luck
had turned at Ascot, and it now seemed
as if they could do no wrong. Captain
Farrington gravely affirmed that he was
getting tired of winning — a very rash

assertion to indulge in with Brighton and
Lewes, with their wondrous facility for
dissipating Goodwood gains, yet to come.
The Stewards' Cup had confirmed Sir
Marmaduke's judgment, resulting in a
tremendous finish between Phaeton and
Pibroch, who came clean away from their
field, and in which, after a ding-dong
struggle, Jim Forrest just contrived to
squeeze the Baronet's horse home by a
head. This brilliant piece of riding at
once established him in the front rank of
the profession, for he was pitted against
no boy, but a skilled horseman, and it was
generally conceded by all race goers that
the slightest error in judgment on Forrest's
part would have caused the head to
be given the other way.

Cuthbert Elliston cursed the Stewards'
Cup and Jim Forrest with a vindictive
earnestness that made his partner stare.
Small chance now of redeeming those cancelled

bills unless they were appraised at
a very slender value, while his superstition
about the bad luck Gerald's appearance
heralded .was more confirmed than
ever.

V01 II

CHAPTER X.

THE LAWYERS MEET.

u Mr. Pearson wants to see me ? Tell him
I shall be disengaged in a few minutes,
Tomlinson," said Mr. Writson, as he contemplated
his brother practitioner's cardin
his own private sanctum in Parliament
Street. " This must, of course, mean a
move in re the estate of Alister Rockingham.
Not likely Pearson is making any
move on his own account ; he knows that
whatever pulls he had at the poor squire's
feathers they were much too carefully
masked for us to lay any hold of, but with
Mr. Elliston it is different — we have
record of his indebtedness," and Mr.

Writson touched the bell as a signal that
he was ready to receive his visitor.

Good morning, Mr. Pearson'' he said,
courteously, as that gentleman entered the
office ; "I was sorry to see that the stable
was somewhat out of luck at Goodwood."

Mr. Writson knew but little and cared
less about turf matters, but there is
neither man, woman, nor child in Yorkshire
to whom " the talking horse " is not
as natural as breathing, and the fortunes
of the Rid diet on stable were always the
subject of common conversation in the
city.

Yes," replied Pearson ; " when your
expectations of winning a good stake are
just upset by a head it's always disappointing.
The calculation is shown
right enough, but the element of luck
incidental to racing has gone against
you."

"Pray sit down; as you are aware, I

am but a poor judge of such things."

L 2

And yet' said Pearson, as lie complied
with his brother professional's
request, " you are acting for an old client
of mine who ruined himself at the game.
The poor squire was much too impulsive
to do any good on a racecourse."

"If he assisted other people to anything
like the extent he assisted his cousin, it
would not need the addition of a taste for
the turf to account for his difficulties,"
replied Mr. Writson, drily.

"Ah, yes ! I have come round to speak
to you on the part of Mr. Elliston," replied
Pearson.

I hope you are empowered to pay the
money he is indebted to the late squire,
or, at all events, a considerable instalment
of it."

You see that is what it amounts to.
It is only a debt."

A debt for which I am instructed to
press for payment. No one can know
better than you how very little, after the

creditors are satisfied, there will be left
for the family. Such a sum as Mr. Ellis-ton's
unmet bills represent is far too considerable
to be looked over."

Mr. Writson travelled a little without
the record in this last speech, for, so far,
he had received no instructions from
Gerald, of whose whereabouts he was still
in ignorance ; but Pearson did not know
that, although he thought it very probable
that neither his solicitor nor his own
people knew how Gerald was getting his
living. Sam Pearson had been quite as
anxious as his partner that the lad's connection
with Riddleton should cease, but
not quite from the same cause. In spite of
a genial manner, Pearson would have never
allowed his feelings to interfere with his
interest, but he had compunctions about
seeing the son of his old patron a servant
in an establishment where the father had
been emphatically master. With Ellison
the case was different. ITe had always

entertained a strong personal dislike to
Gerald from a child ; but for that boy he
would have stood in the position of heir
to Cranley, and on that dislike there was
now grafted a superstitious feeling that
Gerald represented his evil star. Thrice
already he considered had " Jim Forrest"
caused him to lose heavily, though there
was nothing extraordinary in any one of
the three races. In the Two Thousand a
good but bad-tempered horse took it into
his head to do his best ridden by the lad
he was accustomed to. In the Julyss the
best horse won, as it was no secret all
connected with the stable confidently expected
it would ; while in the Stewards-cup
Riddleton was just beat by a known
good horse from Newmarket — the ci-devant
Jim Forrest merely proving himself
a fine horseman, which he had shown
before,

"You see," said Pearson, after a long
pause, during which he was turning over

in his mind the lowest possible sum lie
could in common decency offer in composition,
"Mr. Elliston is rather unfortunately
placed just now for ready money.
If he had a good year last year, luck has
run steadily against him this. It was a
pity you did not apply to him before his
Phaeton winnings had found their way
back to the pockets of the Ring, whence
they came ''

I should have thought he would have
devoted some of them, at all events, to
paying the son a portion of what he owed
the father."

Elliston, like a good many other
people, has plenty of hungry creditors
when he has money, and naturally pacifies
those most likely to proceed to extremities.
You should have made your
application before this year's disasters."

Nobody knows better than you,"
returned Mr. Writson, sharply, u that
Gerald Rockingham only put his affairs

into my hands this year — lie has but
recently found those bills. You, I daresay,
knew of their existence.' '

Whether I did or not has nothing todo
with the question. You know you
can't recover on them by law."

Perhaps not. But I should think Mr.
Elliston would not like to face the exposure
consequent on our attempting to do
so."

Cuthbert Elliston would face a good
deal sooner than pay a sum of money like
that," returned Pearson, sententiously.

You know very well his reputation
at the present moment is by no means
stainless — much too frail, I fancy, to stand
a fresh scandal such as this would be."

"Pooh!" replied Pearson. "As long
as you settle they'd be tolerably indifferent
at Tattersall's or Newmarket as to
where or how you got the money. A man
who always pays when he loses possesses

a cardinal virtue that justifies the infraction
of every law in the Decalogue.

"But Mr. Elliston, remember, has a
wife and a social position to maintain,
and what may be overlooked on the turf
may not be disregarded by society. His
late cousin was a very popular man, and
I know that about here there is deep sympathy
felt for his widow and children."

"From that point of view I grant you
it might be worth my client's while to
pay something. As for his paying the
whole, it is no use talking about it — lie
couldn't if he would."

There was silence between the two men.
Each was waiting for the other to make
the next move. Mr. Writson broke it at
last.

What do you propose to do ? You
came here to make a proposition of some
sort on Mr. Elliston's part, I presume ? ''

"Well; I suppose the tiling really lies

in a nutshell," said Pearson. " You can't
expect Elliston to pay all, and know
that you can't legally exact it. You have
only one way out of it, and that is a composition.
It's a mere question of what
you'll take to cry quits."

"What has Mr. Elliston empowered
you to offer?" inquired Mr. Writson.

u I am not precisely empowered to
make you a definite offer," returned Pearson
; " but, from what my client said, I
think he would go as far as a thousand
pounds."

A thousand pounds in lieu of the six
thousand odd which he really owes to
Gerald Rockingham ! Mr. Elliston is not
very liberal in his ideas of settling with
his creditors — about three-and-sixpence in
the pound cannot be said to err in that
direction. However, I must see what Mr.
Gerald has to say to it."

A sudden thought flashed across Pearson.

He looked his companion hard in
the face, and then said :

u Are you quite sure that you know
where Gerald Rockingham is ? And
what he is doing? I've a shrewd suspicion
that neither you nor his family
know where to communicate with him''

Mr. Writson had tolerable command of
his features, but he was so taken aback
by the guess of his quick-witted antagonist
that he could not avoid betraying in his
face the accuracy of it.

Ha, I thought so ! " exclaimed Pearson;
' : then let me tell you in the profession
young Rockingham has embraced
he is very likely to want a thousand
pounds at any moment. There's a leaven
of the old squire in his composition, and
I recollect hearing that he was ' blooded '
over the Phaeton Leger."

You surely can't mean that he has
taken to racing ? Why, you must be

aware that he has no money for anything
of that sort."

u There are many young gentlemen
who don't seem to find that much of an
obstacle in these days; but if Gerald
Rockingham don't choose to tell you what
lie's doing it's no affair of mine. You
will doubtless know all in good time, buta
thousand pounds may be useful in any
profession — in fact, I never knew a man
who didn't want a thousand pounds.
However, there's no more to be said now.
You can send round to me when you have
heard what Gerald Rockingham says to
our offer. Good morning ! " And with
that Mr. Pearson took his departure.

Yes," muttered the wily lawyer, ashe
made his way to his own residence,
I think I may tell Elliston that he's not
likely to be troubled for some little time.
They would hardly move without young
Rockingham's consent, and it's quite evident

they don't know where he is, nor
that he's blossomed into a celebrity. I
can't help rather admiring the boy's
pluck myself, and he can ride ; but it
will be rather a shock to his own people
when they come to hear of it," and Sam
Pearson could not refrain from smiling
as he thought of haughty Ellen Rockingham
receiving, the intelligence that her
brother had turned jockey.

Mr. Writson remained wrapped in
thought some little time after his visitor
had left him. If Sam Pearson knew
where Gerald was, it was probable there
were others in York who possessed the
same information, and yet it was very
strange that he should keep his mother
and sister in ignorance of his whereabouts.
What was this calling he had
turned his hand to ? And what object
could he have in making a mystery of it ?
Young men, far from making any secret
of their profession, are generally rather

proud of having embarked on one. It is
an unmistakeable recognition of their
manhood. Young, and with all its
chances, whatever they may be, before
them, it is but natural that they should
be proud of the career which they have
embraced. It is only later, when the
prizes have been all missed, the chances
all lost, and the profession of their adoption
has turned out but a grudging stepmother
to them, that they lose their love
for it, that despondency comes over them,
and they wish their line of life had been
otherwise.

However, Mr. Writson reflected, if his
client chose to keep his whereabouts a
mystery, it was not for him to unravel it.
He must surely see or hear from him erelong,
and Cuthbert Elliston's offer was
not a thing that pressed so much as two
or three older matters. At all events, Mr.
Writson reflected, he could proceed no
further without Gerald's instructions.

Even in arranging the sale of Cranley
Chase, which the late squire's liabilities
rendered necessary, he was now much
hampered by the absence of his principal.
He had hoped, in the first instance, that
the place at all events might have been
saved, and that a heavy sacrifice of the
outlying lands would have averted the
sale of the house and park. But it was
now evident that, even if it were possible
which was very doubtful — to retain
these, the income left would be totally
inadequate to keep up such a place as
Cranley. It might be painful, but it was
undoubtedly the wisest thing for the
family to part with their broad manors
altogether. Another thing rather troubled
Mr. Writson. Although not as yet
advertised, it had been privately put
about that Cranley Chase was likely to be
in the market, and so far, somewhat to
Mr. Writson's dismay, they had not even
had a nibble. The wealthy plutocrat who

had made his money in some of our great
manufacturing industries, and desired,
after the way of his class, to become a
large landed proprietor, had not appeared.
Mr. Writson was already pondering somewhat
sadly on whether it would not be
necessary to break the Rockingham property
up and dispose of it in lots. Mr.
Writson was solicitor to a large proportion
of the country gentlemen round about
York, and had much reverence for their
stately homes. The lawyer was a staunch
Conservative, and deplored the downfall
of an old county family as an antiquary
might the destruction of Roman remains.
He had never been Alister Rockingham's
man of business, but was unfeignedly
sorry for the obliteration of the family
from the roll of landed gentry of the
county of York, and the saving of that
seemed hopeless.

CHAPTER XI.

I AM PERFECTLY SERIOUS."

Miss Rockingham, still much disturbed in
her mind as to what had become of her
brother, would have been no little astonished
could she have looked into that
sitting-room in Coney Street which was
the scene of her skirmish with Dollie
Greyson. That young lady was seated
on the sofa, and in very close proximity
to her was the missing Gerald.

u I am so pleased to see you again''
said the girl ; u and how well you have
done, Gerald dear, during the short time
you've been at it ! Why, you're quite one
of the cracks''

VOL. II. M

Yes' he replied; "I get lots of riding
now, and am already beginning to make
money hand over hand. Getting a retainer
from Sir Maraiaduke in the first
instance, and then Blackton's accident,
were two rare turns for me. You saw,
Dollie, I got all the first mounts from
Pipes's stable, and, what's more, made no
mess of them either."

I should think not. Why, the papers
all said that it was your riding got
Pibroch home a winner in the Stewards'
Cup."

Yes ; Sir Marmaduke and his friends
were all very complimentary, and substantially
so, too, Dollie. That race was
worth five hundred pounds to me. I have
got money in the bank now, and hope to
put by a good bit if I don't get too heavy.
When did you leave Riddleton, and how
did you leave them all ? "

I have been here about a week. They
are all well, and take the greatest interest

in your career. Joe Butters has a growing
idea that he taught you to ride, and I
heard father say to him the other day,
He'd a rougher schoolmaster than you,
Joe ; the Dancer, as they call him in the
stable, made Jim Forrest.' '

So he did. How is the queer-tempered
brute, Dollie ? He was backed fora
deal of money for the Leger at Good-wood.
I should like to be up on him at
Doncaster, and see if he'd try with me
once more."

Ah, they won't let you ride for
Middleton again. Mr. Elliston and Mr.
Pearson won't have it, and I don't think
father quite wants you about the place,
Gerald," replied the girl, shyly.

u But your father has no cause to be
angry with me."

"No; but remember he does not know
who you are, and dear father thinks I'm
too good for any one almost. He watches
your riding with great interest, and was

M 2

you win at Goodwood. He said when he
came back, ' It was that Jim Forrest who
was here bowled us over, and Mr. Elliston
is a fool to bar his riding for Biddleton."

Well, I shall go over and see him.
We were very good friends when we met
at Goodwood.''

Oh, yes, he would be glad to see you,
and mother too. It's different from what
it was when you were with us. Now
you're a swell you know. But what are
you going to do ? You will go and see
your mother and sister, I suppose ? "

Yes. Fancy Ellen coming to see you,
as you told me in your letter ! How did
you get on ? "

u Well, not particularly well. She
wanted to patronise me, and I didn't like
that, and then, Gerald, she derided the
idea of there being anything serious
between us, and I liked that still less."

But how did she come to know anything
about it ? Did you tell her ?

She saw your ring on my finger, and
I don't quite know how it was led up to,
but she guessed you gave it me, and quite
lectured me for being fool enough to
believe that a Rockingham could intend
to do more than amuse himself with a girl
like me."

"Ellen's too bad, by Jove!" said
Gerald, starting to his feet, and pacing
the room in his annoyance. u She always
was as proud as Lucifer, and now she
ignores the fact that we are ruined. She
secluded herself so latterly that she is
quite ignorant of the way things are
changing, and that the old families have
to make way for the new. Upon my
word I think she believes one can live on
one's genealogy. However, she shall
know that my intentions are serious
enough, as far as you are concerned,
before the day's over."

What will your mother say to it ? "

"She won't like it, I dare say, at first,

more especially as she won't know that
but for you I should be sore puzzled to
even earn my daily bread. I don't know
what else I could have turned my hand
to ; but I don't intend to tell her as yet
what I am doing. When she knows she'll
have to admit that a jockey, even if he is
a Rockingham, is very suitably mated
with Dollie Greyson, and a lucky fellow
to have won her to boot."

I do hope she will let me love her,
Gerald, and that we shall get on together."


No doubt of that. Ellen is different.
There will be more trouble to reconcile
her to our marriage, but she will come
round when she knows that I am Jim
Forrest, the jockey."

You know best, Gerald, but would it
not be wise to tell them that at once ? It
is sure to come to their ears before long."

"No; and I'll tell you why. They
both think there is a hope of saving

Cranley — I mean just the house and so on
they know the bulk of the property
must go, but hope that will be left to us.
I can't tell for certain till I've seen
Writson, but I don't suppose there's a
chance myself. However, the knowledge
that Cranley is irretrievably gone will
make them understand that we must
accept a lower position in the world."

"It will be a terrible blow for them to
know that the old house and lands have
passed away from the Rockingham,"
murmured the girl, softly ; " but I fear,
Gerald, they will be more hurt at the
calling you have adopted. I am almost
sorry now I suggested it to you."

Nonsense, Dollie. I don't know what
I should have done if you hadn't. I
should probably by this have been earning
a wretched salary as a clerk ; work I
should have hated. My present work is
healthy, exciting, and well paid ; indeed
I am rapidly making money, and I know

nothing else at which I could have begun
to do that so speedily. A big race taxes
all one's resources of nerve, eye, head, and
hand. It calls for resolution and ready
decision, and the excitement of a close
finish is thrilling. A popular actor obtains
no prompter recognition than a
popular jockey in his hour of triumph.
The great thing is not to lose your head.
It made my pulses tingle the other day to
hear the roar of ' Pibroch wins ! ' * Phaeton
wins ! ' and know what a very fine point
it was between us''

"Gerald, I must see you ride. I should
so love to see you win a great race."

All in good time. I must say goodbye
to you now, darling, as I must have a
talk with Writson, and then go and see
my mother and Ellen, and next time you
meet the latter she won't, at all events,
tell you that my love-making all means
nothing."

<( But shall I see you again before you
go ? "

Not unless I see you at Biddleton. I
want to go over there and have a palaver
with your father. I want to know how
the Dancer is, and who's going to ride him
for the Leger. He treats me very differently
now, Dollie, and may tell me. How
lie would jump down a stable-boy's throat
who presumed to ask him such a question !
I backed him for a little money at Good-wood
for ' auld lang syne.' Once more,
goodbye ; I must get back to Newmarket
as soon as I have finished my business in
Yorkshire ; " and, having snatched a kiss
from Dollie's unresisting lips, Gerald took
his departure, and made his way to Mr.
Writson's.

The lawyer was unfeignedly glad to see
him, although he had no very pleasant
intelligence to impart, but lie wanted
authority for what lie proposed doing.

He told his client point-blank that any
attempt to save Cranley would be
useless.

l It will be that most miserable of all
things — an attempt to live in a big house.
Mr. Rockingham, on a very small income.
Better let it go, hard as if must be for you
to part with it. You will, of course, improve
the income by its sale, and be spared
a painful struggle, for I am sure it would
pain you if Cranley were not kept up as
}^ou have always seen it done."

Yes, better it should go than that,"
replied Gerald. u The gardens neglected,
and the stables well nigh empty, would be
sadder for us all than the loss of it. Besides,
the first wrench is over. My mother
has moved."

There is one thing I fear you will be
sorry to hear, that, though it is an open
secret that the place will be in the market
shortly, I have had no inquiries about it,

and we may possibly have to break up
the estate into lots, and dispose of it that
way."

u I don't know that makes much differences''
replied Gerald, sadly; " more
publicity given that way, of course, but
every one knows we are broke, so what
does it matter ? "

Mr. Writson was more sincerely sorry
for his client than any gentleman of his
profession has any business to be.

"I have one other thing," he said at
last, "to take your instructions about, Mr.
Rockingham," and then he told Gerald
the story of the bills, and how there could
be no doubt that Cuthbert Elliston had
owed the late squire over six thousand
pounds at the time of his death, which
was still, of course, due to the estate, and
Mr. Writson proceeded to recount what
steps he had taken to recover it, and in
what wise they had been met.

Gerald's young face grew dark as lie

listened, and for some little time after
the lawyer had finished he remained rapt
in thought.

Neither myself nor my mother ever
liked or trusted Cuthbert Elliston. She
always declared that he was a constant
borrower and evil adviser, and that my
father would have been a much richer manif
he'd never seen him. Me he hated
from a child. I, of course, came between
him and the property. My birth extinguished
his chance of ever coming into
Cranley. I am not at all disposed to let
Elliston off that money if it is possible to
make him pay it."

If you leave it to me I think we shall at
all events get some of it, and you almost
owe it to your mother and sister to try."

All right ! do as you think best. And
now, I think, there's nothing more."

u No. Just give me your address, Mr.
Rockingham, in case I want to write to
you."

u I cannot do that as yet, but you will
hear from me in a few weeks, perhaps seeme
again. Goodbye."

6i Now what can be his objection to
giving his address ? " mused Mr. Writson.
"Not a word either did he drop as to what
he was doing. Pearson is evidently posted
on both these points, and yet he keeps me,
his solicitor, in ignorance. It's foolish.
He's young or he would know the old
axiom, ' No secrets from your lawyer and
doctor,' is an excellent adage. Well, well,
it's hard, poor boy, at his age, that he
should have necessity to confide in
either''

Gerald strode mournfully towards his
mother's lodgings in St. Leonard's Place.
He was by no means dissatisfied with his
own personal prospects. He had dropped
all rubbish about its being below his
dignity. He had to earn his own living,
and make money to boot if possible. That
which came easiest to his purpose he had

done, and was no whit ashamed of it. But
he had now to break the fact, not only
that Cranley Chase was gone from them
for ever, to his mother and sister, but that
it was his fixed determination to marry
Dollie Grierson, the trainer's daughter ;
two things that were likely to be bitter
news in St. Leonard's Place. Especially
would his sister Ellen resent what she
would deem a terrible mesalliance. All
this, and his resolute determination not to
disclose his present vocation or address,
would, he knew, make the interview
painful.

His mother uttered a cry of delight ashe
entered the room. Not only, poor
lady, was she honestly much pleased to see
her son, but she further hoped that he was
the herald of good tidings. She bore a
brave front to the world and faced her
altered fortunes with all the patient
courage high-bred women usually display
in such troubles, but there was under it all

hope that enough might be saved from the
wreck to enable her to end her days at
Cranley.

Ellen had no such delusion, and saw
clearly enough that to live at Cranley with
an income quite insufficient to keep the
place up would be infinitely more painful
than their present position, to which she
had tolerably reconciled herself. Although
very pleased to see her brother,
she greeted him with considerably less
effusion than her mother. She had not
forgiven his unaccountable silence, and,
moreover, although she derided the idea
of there being anything serious in it, she
was aware that he was carrying on a
desperate flirtation with Dollie Grey son.
Miss Rockingham, with her rather rigid
principles, thought that not only bad style,
but that it was decidedly wrong of Gerald
to turn the girl's head in this fashion.

Well, mother, I have seen Mr. Writ-son
this morning, and it is quite decided.

I know you will feel it, but the old house
must go. Even if we could keep it, we
couldn't live in it, and wouldn't you rather
it went from us altogether than merely
went to rack and ruin in our hands ? "

"You know best, Gerald. I should
have dearly loved to finish my days where
I have passed so many happy years ; but
if it must be so it is useless my saying
any more. If I grieve over it you and
Ellen, at least, shall not see it. But,
my dear boy, why have we not heard
from you for so long, and what are you
doing ? "

"Mother, you must rest content when
I tell you that I am earning my own
living honestly, and doing well. I am
even putting by money, but I will not
tell you how as yet."

Ellen stared in undisguised astonishment
at her brother.

You making money, Gerald ! My
dear brother, can it be really true ? I am

glad, very glad, for your own sake, and
must confess to the greatest curiosity as
to how you do it."

It was unkind to keep such good news
to yourself," exclaimed Mrs. Rockingham.
I have been so anxious about you''

I had urgent reasons for not writing "
he could not well despatch letters from
Riddleton — u but they are now in a great
measure removed, and you will hear from
me occasionally as well as see me. Before
long I shall be able to explain everything,
and you will find I have done nothing I
need be ashamed of. One thing more,
mother, dearest, I'm going to be married."

Married, Gerald ! At your age, and
in your circumstances ! It's madness ! "

6i Well, I ought not to have said that
exactly, because I'm not going to be
married just yet ; but I am engaged to a
Miss Grey son."

Gerald ! Gerald ! Don't say that, for

VOL. II. N

Heaven's sake ! " exclaimed his sister.
She's the niece of the haberdasher in
Coney Street, mother."

Never mind who she is. She's a very
pretty, good girl, and has been brought
up a lady, as Ellen there can testify, and
I'm pledged to make Tier my wife. I
know, mother, you won t relish the idea
at first, but it is not going to take place
at present, and in the mean time I want
you to know Follies

Gerald, I am afraid'' returned Mrs.
Rockingham, " that you are meditating a
very foolish thing. If we have lost our
house and lands, remember we are still
Rockinghams."

tC Ah, mother, dear, there's a new order
of things rapidly approaching, and Rockinghamss
and other people of the same
type will find they are of little account
in the days that are coming, unless they
command either money or brains."

Do you mean to say, Gerald, birth
and blood are to be of no consideration in
future ? "

Birth and blood will count for little,
my sister. What you can do will be held
in higher reverence than how you were
born, very shortly, indeed, I might say is
already* And now, dearest mother, I
must say good-bye. My very brief holiday
is over, and I must return again to my
work, but you will hear from me before
long."

< ' Oh, Gerald, this is a miserably short
visit, and I had so much to say to you,"
murmured Mrs. Rockingham, as she embraced
him tenderly.

a Work is work, mother, and must be
seen to. There's no money to be made
unless one sticks to it. Good-bye, Ellen."

But the girl was too anxious to part with
him in that fashion. She accompanied
him downstairs.

It is not betting that you're making

your money at ? " she said in a nervous
whisper, as she clung tightly to him at
the door.

No, no, darling! It is no chance
work of that description. I legitimately
earn what I make. Set your mind at rest
on that point."

And you don't really mean to marry
Miss Grey son, do you Gerald ? "

Most undoubtedly," he returned,
brusquely. "I am perfectly serious.
Good-bye."

CHAPTER XII.

ONCE MORE AT Middleton.

Gerald could not help smiling at his dual
identity as he jumped into the trap that
was to convey him to Riddleton Moor.
He had during that hurried visit to York
been his own self, now he had become
Jim Forrest again. He was like a young
soldier returning from a successful campaign.
He had left Riddleton a raw
recruit, at the very bottom of the turf
ladder ; he was returning decorated and
known to fame. The stable-boy had
blossomed into the coming jockeys, who
had held his own successfully with the
best horsemen of the day. He was famous

in his world, and knew that his old
comrades would regard him with more
respect as Jim Forrest, the artist who had
picked the Stewards' Cup at Goodwood
out of the fire, to say nothing of winning
the Two Thousand and the Julyss, than
if he were of the best blood in Yorkshire
and Master of the Buckhounds to boot.

Years ago, I remember, when I was a
small boy at a private school, there came
to visit us one who had gone from our
ranks and attained the dignity of the
Upper School at Rugby. He was neither
clever nor had he distinguished himself
in any way, but we all looked upon him
with infinite awe and respect, to which he
responded by treating us all with the
most supercilious contempt, interspersed
with sundry cuffs of our heads and tweaks
to our small noses. I think we regarded
him with greater awe than ever then.
We did not understand in our juvenile
ignorance what a contemptible snob he

really was. There was nothing of this
sort about Gerald, and he shook hands
with the lads 'midst whom his lot had
been for a short time cast with the
greatest cordiality. They were all proud
of him in the stable. Jim Forrest had
begun as a Riddleton lad, and it was
open to any other Riddleton lad to attain
equal eminence, and who can doubt
there were several among them who
deemed they were quite as fine horsemen
as their fortunate comrade ?

Well, Jim, you've come on wonderful.
I and the Dancer between us have made
you. What's the machine say? You're
careful about your grub, I hope, and keep
the setting muzzle on mostly ? Think of
a career like yours being spoilt by mere
greediness''

I tell you what, Joe," returned Forrest,
" you're not so abstemious yourself,
you know. You don't practise what you
preach."

Bless you, don't take pattern by me,
take warning. I'm incurably given to
vicious courses, I am," said Butters, shaking
his head. " In my perverted nature
I never could be got to like toast, stale
bread, gruel, and lots of walking."

"And the end of it-is, Joe, you've
never been given a chance in a big race''

u It ain't all vice," returned Butters,
dolefully, " it's partly constitutional. Fat's
unevenly dispersed in this world, that's
what it is. Have you seen Mr. Greyson
yet?"

"No. I want to have a bit of a talk
with him, and I thought I'd like to see
you all, and, as a matter of business
brought me up this way, I came over."

"Well, we reckoned to see you on the
Knavesmire, but not before. You'll, of
course, be up for the races ? "

"Yes, I suppose so. Ah, here comes
Greyson."

Butters stared almost in awe at his

audacious companion. The idea of anyone
at Biddleton speaking even of Mr.
Grey son as Greyson was to him not to be
understand."

The trainer shook hands heartily with
his visitor.

I'm glad to see you again, Forrest,' \
he said. " You did us credit at Good-wood,
though it was hard you should just
beat your old stable. Will you have a
look at the horses before we peck a bit ? "

"I should like to take a look round
first, thank you, Mr. Greyson. Old
Phaeton wasn't beat by want of condition.
It was a very tight fit. I got just a shade
the best of Brandon at the beginning of
our set-to, and managed to hold it to the
end."

"Yes," replied the trainer, "he was
well enough. Pibroch was a little better
than I thought him, that was all."

u I fancy your estimate of his form was
about rig-lit, Mr. Greyson, but the distance

suited him a bit better than either Newmarket
or Epsom."

Perhaps so. But here's an old friend
of yours, Forrest' and as he spoke the
trainer threw open the door of a loose-box,
and the Dancing Master turned his
neat, black muzzled, grey head round to
examine the intruders on his privacy.

He looks well — uncommon well. May
I strip him, Mr. Greyson ? "

Certainly. Here, Matthews, take his
cloths off."

"No; I want to do that myself, as I
have done scores of times when I was his
boy. He was the making of me. I wonder
what he'd have done in the Derby if
you had allowed me to ride him ? "

Pretty much as he did do, I fancy,"
rejoined the trainer. " Mind what you're
about, Forrest," he exclaimed, as the grey
acknowledged his old jockey with one of
those lightning one-legged kicks peculiar
to thoroughbred horses. But Jim sprang

on one side like a cat, and was at the
horse's shoulder in an instant. " His
temper I'm afraid will always go in a
crowd. He'll never try in a big field "

Well," replied Forrest, as he threw
the rugs on the straw, " he'll be in rare
fettle at Doncaster. Middleton ought to
take the Leger again this year."

All depends upon whether that beggar
thinks so," rejoined Grey son. " He'll
go, bar accidents. Never mind about
that," he continued. " Matthews will put
his sheets on. Come and have some
lunch."

As they walked down towards the
house Forrest remarked :

Is it a secret, or have you not settled,
who is to ride the Dancer in the Leger ?
I put some of my Goodwood earnings on
him for luck at that meeting, and am
very curious to know who's to have the
mount."

The trainer eyed his questioner keenly
for some seconds, and then said :

You must rest satisfied with the assurance
that he will run, and have a goodman
up. How the horse is, you have
seen for yourself. I suppose you'll ride
one of Sir Marmaduke's ? ,;

I should hardly think so," returned
Forrest. U I don't fancy he'll run more
than one, and Blackton will be all right
again by that time."

Again the trainer looked sharply into
Jim's face, and this time came to the
conclusion that Forrest had no suspicion
of the bargain concluded between Sir
Marmaduke and himself at Goodwood.
Greyson had not much intercourse with
the baronet as yet, but he did know that
he enjoyed the reputation of being able
on occasion to keep his own counsel, and
if ever any one believed that much cackling
was wont to result in addled eggs

it was Bill Greyson. Silence is golden,
especially in turf tactics, and tattlers rarely
effect big coups. It was evident Sir Mar-mature
had as yet kept his intentions
pretty well to himself, though the trainer
saw by the papers that there was always
money being quietly trickled on the
Dancing Master for the Leger whenever
a decent price was offered.

Well, here we are," said the trainer,
as he opened the little gate and led the
way across the grass-plat to the snug
gabled porch, in which many a pipe had
been smoked, and many an equine battle
been fought over again by veterans who
had borne their part in the veritable fray,
the result of which was still matter of
dispute as bitter as just before the post
was passed. The " what might have
been" is always a fruitful, if profitless,
subject of discussion; and the "what
should have won " racing-men have always
much to say about, to say nothing of that

more extreme point of argument, to wit,
what really did win. There are many
turfites yet who witnessed the Derby of
'69, who vow that Pero Gomez won ; but,
as his owner curtly remarked at the time,
The only man whose opinion is of the
slightest consequence — Judge Clark — says
I didn't."

The missus will be right glad to see
you, Forrest. Like the rest of us, she
regards you at all events as a Riddleton
trained one that does us credit. Dollie's
with her uncle in York ; " and Greyson
cas a quick glance at his guest to see
whether he showed disappointment at the
latter intelligence.

That Jim should listen quite unmoved
was natural, considering that he was
already quite aware of Miss Greyson's
absence. To her mother this would have
suggested an underhand correspondence ;
to the trainer it merely occurred that it
was well he had nipped an idle and unsatisfactory

flirtation in the bud, as Jim
had apparently lost all thought of the
object of his transient passion.

Mrs. Greyson welcomed Jim warmly;
it might be almost said effusively, considering
that the last time she had seen
him her husband had with difficulty restrained
her from sending Forrest away
with what in homely language is denominated
" a flea in his ear." Still, Jim
Forrest the rising jockey was a very
different person from Jim Forrest the
stable-boy ; although Mrs. Greyson, who,
in her secret soul, was very proud of her
daughter, much as she snubbed her, had
very much higher views for her ultimate
settlement in life. Mrs. Greyson was a
vain woman, having, indeed, more than
an ordinary share of that pardonable
weakness of her sex, and she indulged in
dreams at times of Dollie's marrying very
much above her station. She aimed for
her daughter, not at Jim Forrest, but the

employers of Jim Forrest and his fellows.
She was rather discontented with the
gentlemen who trained at Riddleton, and
only her husband stood no nonsense
nor interference with his business — would
have been always carping at him, because
he numbered, with exception of Cuthbert
Elliston, none of the aristocracy amongst
his clients. Elliston was by birth undoubtedly
nearly connected with that
class, and as such stood very high in Mrs.
Grey son's estimation. She would have
been astounded to learn that Mr. Elliston's
paramount influence in the stable had
prevented many of the best men on the
turf from sending their horses to Riddleton.
Gentlemen who wished to run their
horses honestly were afraid to send them
to an establishment in which Cuddie Ellis-ton
pulled the strings. It was through
him that Bill Greyson had acquired such
a shady reputation ; it was through Ellis-ton's
incessant scheming and tortuous turf

tactics that Alister Rockingham and one
or two more profitable employers had
withdrawn from Riddleton. The trainer,
though he had undoubtedly rather a
tendency to crooked paths, was more
sinned against than sinning ; but he was
to some extent in Pearson's hands, and
so forced to do the bidding of the partners,
and that was bad for his or any one
else's reputation.

You've become a successful man, Mr.
Forrest," said Mrs. Grey son, as she extended
her hand, and begged him to sit
down to luncheon. " You have got a
grand start, and we shall hear of you
quite at the top of the tree before long."

Jim pricked up his ears at hearing himself
addressed as " Mr." Forrest. It was
a recognition of his success that came
home to him. Mrs. Greyson was not
wont to address the stable-lads with any
prefix of " Mr," even if she managed to

VOL. II. O

recollect their names, which was not
always the case.

"And you've got Sir Marmaduke's
riding, too ; well, you are lucky. He's
such a princely employer. I only wish
we had got his training," and Mrs. Grey-son
shot a querulous look across at her
husband, as if to say " You might have
had it if you had exerted yourself''

The trainer vouchsafed no reply; but
could not help reflecting with a dry
chuckle that he happened to have a coltin
training for Sir Marmaduke at that
moment.

"Thank you, Mrs. Greyson,'' replied
Forrest. " Getting Sir Marmaduke's
riding is, of course, a bit of real good luck ;
but I'm only the second string after all."

"What does that matter? You'll get
lots of other opportunities. They came
to you before, and will again. We shall
see you busy, no doubt, at York. That,

as you know, is my great holiday in the
year. William always takes a box forme
there."

Now this was precisely what Forrest
did not know. He had been to York
races as a schoolboy, but it so happened
not since he had known Dollie Greyson ;
however, at the moment he thought but
little of the intelligence. He had further
overlooked another thing, namely, that if
he rode in his own part of the country
his recognition was a certainty. He had,
he thought, pursued his career quite unsuspected
so far ; but if he donned silk on
the Knavesmire the identity of Jim
Forrest with Gerald Rockingham was
inevitable. This had as yet not occurred
to him.

Yes, Mrs. Greyson," he replied; "I'm
pretty safe to be there, and I particularly
hope I shall have a good mount or two.
I should like Dollie to see me ride a
winner''

o2

The trainer and his wife exchanged a
rapid glance at hearing Jim use their
daughter's Christian name so glibly.

I hoped you had forgotten all that
nonsense, Forrest. You have other things
to think of just now; time enough to talk
about that three or four years hence if
you are still in the same mind."

ci I have neither forgotten it, nor do I
intend to change my mind," rejoined Jim,
quietly.

"You won't see Dollie at York, I
doubt'' said Mrs. Grey son, with just a
tinge of tartness in her tone. She did not
intend in the least to quarrel with a rising
jockey; but she at the same time did not
intend he should marry her daughter.
However, mothers are not always the
arbiters of such things nowadays.

A little more desultory conversation,
during which there was no further allusion
to Dollie, and then Forrest announced he
must be off.

The trainer ordered a trap out to take
him to the station; and, as they shook
hands, Forrest said, " Well, I suppose we
shall know at York who is to ride the
Dancer?"

Yes," replied Greyson; " most likely.
What you all ride will, I dare say, be
settled by that time. Good-bye''

Old Bill can keep his mouth shut as
well as any one I know," muttered Jim,
as the dog-cart whirled him down to the
railway; "but I should have liked to
know who'll have the mount on my old
friend at Doncaster."

Chapter XIII.

u you'll be wanted at donc aster."

Gerald's announcement of his intended
marriage terribly disconcerted Mrs. Rockingham.
She could not realise his marrying
at all as yet, and comforted herself
with the reflection that this was at worst
a mere boyish flirtation, which could
result in nothing, as such boyish flirtations
usually did. But this was not the case
with Ellen. In the first instance, she had
thought just as her mother did; but she
had recognised with astonishment the
rapid development of her brother's character,
its increasing hardness, and fixity
of purpose. Whatever his calling might

be, it was evident that he was pursuing it
with energy, and doing well, according to
his own account : and then again she
wondered what this mysterious vocation
might be. Another thing, too: Miss
Rockingham had seen Dollie Greyson,
and she was aware that her mother had
no conception of what the girl was like.
Mrs. Rockingham would see something
very different from what she at present
pictured, Ellen knew, whenever she came
to meet Miss Greyson.

So the two women sat in the quiet York
lodgings which they had at last learnt
must represent their home for the future,
and bewailed Gerald's wilfulness and folly
in this matter, but with this difference,
that, whereas the mother still had no real
belief in his being in earnest, the daughter
knew better, and felt that in two or three
years it would be only Dollie herself who
would prevent that marriage. It was a
severe blow to Ellen; for, in spite of her

strong religious proclivities, there was a
large amount of " the pride that apes
humility" in Miss Rockingham. She was
a stickler for class, and intolerant of a
church in which the pews were not
reserved. She did not understand free
sittings ; she was very anxious to do her
duty to her fellow-creatures, but not from
the same level. Her good works were
tinged with patronage, and, when her
more lowly brothers and sisters winced,
as people will, from that most galling
infliction, she inwardly accused them of
ingratitude. Not altogether a pleasant
character, and yet Miss Rockingham was
a handsome girl and a nice girl, who
simply from want of an outlet to her feelings
had contracted an unpleasant kink
in her disposition.

But she was game as any of her race,
and, though evil times had come upon
them, was not going to lower her crest on
that account. It was a sore trouble to her

that Gerald should think of marrying so
much beneath himself; and when she
learns, as sooner or later she must, how
he is getting his living, it will be a very-bitter
moment to her. To say nothing of
what she would consider the disgrace of
his present calling, Ellen has a great
horror of the turf. She regards it as
associated with gambling, falsehood, and
much other wickedness; moreover, she
has ever before her eyes the ruin it has
brought to her own home and family, and
she would have told Gerald, and with
reason, that the sea is as likely to give up
its dead as the turf to restore the fortunes
buried in its treacherous quicksands.

Yet Gerald, short as is the time he has
followed his profession, has already some
hundreds at his banker's, and is rapidly
extending his connection and business.
Still, the more that riding falls to the
lot of Jim Forrest, so do the rumours
strengthen and increase that he is of

gentle blood, " a scion of an old family
that has gone to everlasting smash, you
know," murmured racing-men in club
smoking-rooms. The sporting papers began
to babble of "the aristocratic jockey" ;
but though, of course, Forrest was aware
that he had received that nickname, he
was far from knowing how very busy
men's tongues were about him.

Amongst a large section of the racing
community there was no doubt now
about Jim's being well-born, and who
he was formed constant subject of discussion.
It was evident that a boy
brought up in a public school, who had
passed a term at Cambridge, and who had
been well known as such a very u promising
young one " with the York and
Ainsty, must be recognised before long
in a pursuit which brought him so much
before men's eyes as professional race-riding.
But there are many people in
this world, and shrewd people too, who,

like the ostrich, think that if they bury
their head in the sand they have
swallowed fern-seed, and are consequently
invisible. To bury your identity is a
very difficult thing, but for one always
before the public an impossibility.

The first person to thoroughly open Jim
Forrest's eyes to the fact that his secret
would very speedily become general property
was Captain Farrington, that good-natured
reckless plunger, who followed
Sir Marmaduke's banner so staunchly.
Jim had been riding one of the Captain's
indifferent plates at Egham, in a race in
which it was fondly hoped he had met
half-a-dozen rather worse than himself,
but the calculations of the stable were
upset ; for, in spite of strenuous efforts on
Forrest's part, he failed to get his horse
nearer than second.

You did your best, Jim," said the
Captain, with his usual pleasant smile ;

but the brute's even worse than we
thought him."

Yes, sir," replied Forrest ; " I should
have thought he was good enough to win
in this company. It will be difficult to
place him anywhere where he can earn
his keep."

More difficult to place him than to
place you, Jim," replied Farrington.
I'm not going to ask impertinent
questions, but you're one of us. I've beta
level hundred you're clean bred, whenever
we get at your pedigree."

I am James Forrest, the jockey ;
where I come from, or of what stock, is,
I think, of no consequence to my employers,
as long as I do my best by
them."

Quite right, Jim. I told you I'd no
wish to press the point," replied the good-natured
plunger ; " but I warn you it is a
good deal talked about, and I should fancy
you're safe to be spotted before long"

Forrest, on his way home to Newmarket,
thought a good deal over what Captain
Farrington had said. He knew the captain
was a shrewd man of the world,
whose judgment might be relied on in a
matter of this kind, and, if he thought
there was little doubt of some one shortly
recognising him as Gerald Rockingham,
Jim felt that it would be so. He did not
want that, he persuaded himself at present,
on account of the annoyance it would
occasion his mother and sister, but in
reality he shrank from its being proclaimed
to the world that he was getting his living
in a line not recognised as permissible for
young men of gentle blood. He did nota
bit mind the work, or being treated like
any other of his fellows ; he was only too
thankful at having found a vocation so
little distasteful by which he could not only
get a living, but would have money to
spare for those near and dear to him ; but

he infinitely preferred that it should be as
Jim Forrest."

However, he reflected, it would be time
enough to worry about it when the thing
came to pass, and at his age such Epicurean
philosophy was, perhaps, as much
as was to be expected.

The next morning Jim was up betimes
and away to the Heath, to see what Sir
Marmaduke's string might be doing. He
found Mr. Pipes very busy indeed with
the horses, for Sir Marmaduke, who, since
the termination of the Sussex fortnight,
had been away in Scotland, resting on his
Goodwood laurels, had announced his intention
of being present at both York and
Doncaster, and issued extensive orders
with regard to the Northern campaign.
The principal interest of the trainer and
his assistants seemed centred on Bushranger,
the Leger crack. Blackton, now
entirely recovered from his accident, was

there to give him a gallop. The horse
had done remarkably well since Epsom,
and been kept and carefully prepared for
the great Doncaster race ; and all connected
with him were very sanguine that
he would turn the tables on Comet.

Good morning, Forrest'' said Mr.
Pipes; " you're just in time to do us a
turn. Go and get on Pibroch. I want
you to bring Bushranger along the last
mile. You can make it pretty warm for
Blackton for that distance."

The latter nodded good morning to Jim
and then said, laughing, tl Ah ! you'll not
run away from me this morning as you
did the first time we met. By the way,
how's that grey devil doing ? Are you
going to ride him at Doncaster ? "

"I saw him the other day and he's
right enough, and meant for the Leger,
but how he'll run is a thing no man can
hazard an opinion about. I never ride for

Greyson's stable now, and have no idea
who is to have the mount."

u A bookmaker's friend," retorted
Blackton. ei A sort that only wins when
nobody's backed him. If I can only get
rid of Comet, I shan't be afraid of him.
I'd best be off, I suppose, Mr. Pipes ? I
suppose old King of the Mist will lead meas
usual, and Forrest pick me up with
Pibroch at the end of a mile ? "

The trainer nodded. " A good strong
gallop, remember, but, of course, no racing.
Still, you are to bustle Pibroch along towards
the finish''

All right'' replied Jim, as he walked
his horse leisurely after the other two, to
await at the mile-post for their arrival.

It was but a few minutes before he saw
King of the Mist leading the way at a
good steady pace, and Jim just mettled
up his horse. As they all but reached
him, he jumped off with two or three

lengths to the good and improved the
speed, quickening it gradually till they
neared the place where Pipes was standing,
when he still further increased it,
finishing almost at racing pace. Bushranger
strode along in his track in grand
fashion, and was, in racing parlance, always
treading his heels off.

Yes ; we made a mistake with him in
the Guineas," muttered the trainer confidentially
to himself. " Bushranger stays
much better than the other, to say nothing
of his being a more improving one than
Pibroch. He's a 7 lb. better colt than
when he ran second for the Derby, and
the extra distance at Doncaster will serve
him better than the mile and a half at
Epsom. He went well with you, Black-ton
? '' he continued aloud.

u Never galloped stronger in his life ;
and, as for Pibroch, I fancy I could have
smothered him any time in the last quarter
of a mile, eh, Forrest ? "

VOL. II. P

I think Blackton's right, Mr. Pipes,"
replied Jim. "I believe he could have
left me any time towards the end. There's
no doubt about it, three quarters of a mile
suits Pibroch better than a whole one, and
that's the extreme length of his tether.
You'll not send him to Doncaster ? "

Yes, my orders are he is to go, but
he's not going for the Leger if you mean
that," returned the trainer.

I ought to have a great ' look in' with
Bushranger," chimed in Blackton, with
just a shade of acidity in his tones, implying
" You had better discuss these things
with the leading jockey of the stable."

Comet will have to be at his best todo
me the next time."

We'll hope he won't be," rejoined the
trainer, tersely.

But there were plenty of keen eyes
besides those of Mr. Pipes and his merry
men who had watched Bushranger's gallop,
and, like him, deemed it so satisfactory,

that the wires were in great request
that morning ; and, when the magnates of
the Victoria Club got together, it was
evident that there was more than one
commission to back Sir Marmaduke's
crack for his Doncaster engagement in
the market. That the credulous public
should follow suit was matter of course ;
and at Tattersall's, in the afternoon, it
was an open question whether Bushranger
or Comet was first favourite for the Leger.
In reporting this fact next day, few of
the leading sporting papers failed to remark,
" that in spite of the strong demonstration
in favour of Bushranger, reported
to have done a splendid gallop that morning,
there were a small coterie who apparently
never tired of backing the Dancing
Master at a certain price."

Oh, by the way, Forrest," said the
trainer, seizing an opportunity when
Blackton was out of earshot; " you will
be wanted at Doncaster.' '

P 2

"•II." ejaculated Jim. " Why, Mr.
Pipes, what is there for me to do ? "

You will find out when you get there.
Anyway, those are Sir Marmaduke's
orders;" and so saying, the trainer turned
carelessly away, leaving Forrest to walk
home and meditate what the deuce Sir
Marmaduke could want with him at Doncaster,
now Blackton was about again.

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. Dartford's LITTLE DINNER.

Mr. Durnford was a man who understood
the art of dining. He was fastidious in
all his tastes, and in none more so than
in the pleasures of the table. He had
various crotchets and theories on the subject,
declaring, for one thing, that the
guests were matter of as much importance
as the dishes. He had been known to
reply to the remark : " Dull, but a doosid
good dinner'' with " Impossible ; wholesome
food well cooked, and you satisfied
your appetite no doubt, but pray don't
think you had a good dinner. The mere
fact that you found it dull proves the
contrary."

Mr. Durnford held that, as well as
tickling the palate, it was equally necessary
to amuse the mind and gratify the
eye. It was not essential that the guests
should all be clever, but it was a sine qua
non they should assimilate. Equally the
decorations of the table need not be expensive,
but it was imperative they should
be tasteful.

cC Flowers, glass, and china are quite
as pleasant to look upon as gold and
silver, and can be had at small cost in
these days," said Mr. Durnford. "It is
as inexcusable to set your guests at a
barely or vulgarly furnished board as it
is to put before them a badly considered
menu

The canon's little dinners had been
famous in London, and their reputation
had by no means diminished in York.
John Thorndyke and Miss Rockingham
were both special favourites of Mr. Dartford's,
and in consequence often met at

his house, in fact Helen had come of late to
seeing a good deal of Mr. Thorndyke, and
was imperceptibly acquiring considerable
admiration for his strong, straightforward,
fearless character. He would have been a
man of mark in whatever walk of life his
destiny had thrown him, but Ellen often
wondered what had led him to embark
in a vocation which scarcely afforded
scope for his energy and talents. He did
his duty honestly by his flock with all
his heart and with all his soul. No one
had ever heard John Thorndyke express
the slightest wish that his lot in this world
were different, and yet there were times
when Miss Rockingham thought that for
some reason or other he had stifled the
hopes and aspirations of his youth, and
taken his place in a profession not altogether
of his own choosing.

The month of August afforded Mr.
Durnford great scope for the exercise of
that hospitality he so dearly loved. Lots

of his old London acquaintances flocked
through York at that time on their way
to the moors, and were nothing loth to
pull up for a night or two, break the
journey, and have a gossip with a man
sadly missed by the set he chiefly affected
in the metropolis. The .canon naturally
asked his York friends to assist in making
up dinners for these migratory intimates,
which resulted in quite a series of little
entertainments in Mr. Durnford's pleasant
house in the Close. Then people who
turned up for the races were only too
glad to partake of the canon's well-iced
wines and toothsome viands after the
tumult of the Knavesmire, so that altogether
Mr. Durnford's cook had a busy
time of it during August.

The canon stands in his pretty 
looking out upon the deanery
garden awaiting the arrival of his guests.
He has, however, already one companion,
who lounges in the easiest armchair caressing

his heavy blonde moustache. It would
seem at first somewhat incongruous that
Mr. Durnford should number amongst his
intimates Captain Farrington, but so it
was. That nonchalant plunger in his
hours of relaxation mixed freely in society
; both he and the canon were above
all essentially men of the world, and such
assimilate easily. Farrington, apart from
the one great business of his life — gambling
on horse-races — was a popular fellow
who knew everybody and everything that
was going on in town. He had lots to
say, and was an excellent raconteur, not
given to talk stable, as is too often the
case with racing-men, but putting off the
shibboleth of the turf with his race-glasses.
Mr. Durnford liked him, and was only
too delighted to stumble on him at
luncheon in the York Club, and persuade
him to join his dinner-table.

So you really must go on tomorrow,

Farrington?" said the canon, turning
round.

Yes ; after the London season a fellow
wants a bit of picking-up. As an
intimate friend of Marm. Martindale's, I
had, of course, a good time at Goodwood ;
eschewed Brighton, and started for the
north at once. There's nothing like three
weeks amongst the heather to knock the
smoke out of you''

Then I suppose you will be back here
for the races ? "

Farrington nodded. " Yes ; just been
losing my money at Egham, and am
going to give Scarborough a turn for a
little; look in at Doncaster; and then
work my way south again. Same old
round, you know, London, Newmarket,
and then comes the hunting."

There is certainly a monotony about
the way in which you sporting men take
your pleasure," laughed Mr. Durnford.

No ; there you mistake. Hunting,
shooting, racing — all afford infinite variety
; that's the charm. I know a racing
man who, at one time of his career, declared
he was tired of winning. I fancy,
poor fellow, he's rather tired now of doing
the reverse."

Here the butler announced Mrs. and
Miss Rockingham, who were speedily
followed by the dean, with his wife and
daughter, and these, with the addition of
John Thorndyke, completed the party.

I'll get you to face me, Thorndyke,
please," said the canon, as they entered
the dining-room ; " and then, if you
place the young ladies on either side of
you, we shall all fall into our places."

"Glorious drowsy old city this of yours,
Miss Rockingham; but I suppose that
most of you are leaving now for the sea
or country ? In these days people are
all gravitating to the big towns ; but
Nature impels the denizens of the big

cities to seek the Salt Licks at this
season."

No ; I don't think we shall leave
York," replied Ellen.

u There are always people in the big
cities who have to stick to them, even
though ' Midsummer, with its army of
banners, be advancing through the sky,' '
said Thorn dyke; who could make a pretty
shrewd guess at what detained the Rockinghamss
in York.

Beg pardon, of course, Mr. Thorn-dyke.
I'm such an idle, do-nothing lot
myself, that I sometimes forget the
workers in the hive can't drift about as
we drones do ; but you have the pull of
us. When you do get your holiday, you
enjoy it. We sometimes don't. Not but
what I get along very well with all my
play-time."

Yes ; because I understand from
Durnford you're a keen sportsman. You
see, you're always doing something. It's

the people who do nothing find life so
dull, — those who have got the dry rot, as
Dickens expresses it ; who have neither
energy to work nor to play."

That is a thing that always astonishes
Americans so much when they come to
London and mix among our young men,"
said Mr. Durnford, " to find so many of
them doing nothing. In their country
every young fellow goes into business of
some sort, however rich his father may be.
I met a very shrewd, amusing New York
man, last season, who said ' Yes, sir ; I
came very near getting myself disliked
here at starting, from asking, in my
ignorance, what their business might be
of several young gentlemen ; I found out
at last they looked upon business as infra
dig:"

u Don't be personal, Durnford. ' Loafing
around,' as our Yankee friend doubtless
calls it, suits some of us best,"
retorted Captain Farrington. " Besides,

we are rapidly becoming more American
in that respect. Some of the sons of the
nobility have taken to the City of late ;
and, as for the footlights, there seems to
be quite a craze amongst both women and
men to get in front of them''

But surely it is looked upon as very
derogatory for people of that class to
embark in trade or theatrical speculation
? " said Miss Rockingham.

"I think they might leave the Stock
Exchange to those to the manner born,"
remarked the dean, sententiously. " Nothing
is more likely to bring the hereditary
chamber into disrepute than such vulgar
dallying with commerce."

The discovery that our nobility lacked
the brain and energy to get their own
living, if need be, would be infinitely
more damaging to them as an order,"
said Thorndyke. tC By the way, I read
in the papers a short time ago, that there

was a young man of good family who was
earning his living as a professional jockey.
Is that the case, Captain Farrington ? "

Quite true, to the best of my belief.
I know Jim Forrest well; indeed, he rides
for me sometimes — and a very fine horseman
he is. But you no sooner speak to
him, than — though his manner is perfectly
respectful— you feel that you are
talking to a young gentleman of your
own class."

Does he admit at all that he is a
gentleman?" inquired Ellen.

Well, Miss Rockingham, I ventured
to tax him with it once, but, I am fain to
confess, he put me down thoroughly;
while, at the same time, he convinced me
that rumour was right in its surmise about
him. ' My name,' he replied, ' is Jim
Forrest ; and, as long as I do my duty by
them, I conceive my family is no concern
of my employers'"

Yes ; that sounds very like it," said
Thorndyke. " The people are habitually
diffuse on the subject of family. I speak
as a man having much experience amongst
them ; and how often I have had to endure
the story of the sister's sufferings, hear
about the prosperous brother in Australia,
who seems to have forgotten his own flesh
and blood, or listen to the way aunt Maria
left her money in the way she'd no call
to, I really couldn't tell you. Miss Rockingham,
too, could testify to their garrulity
in that direction."

Yes, indeed," replied Ellen, laughing.
I have heard it all too often. Do you
suppose Forrest will continue to preserve
his incognito j Captain Farrington?"

Not a chance of it, I should think.
So continually before the public as a crack
jockey, the only wonder is that he has not
been already recognised. It is already
rumoured that he comes from up here

somewhere, either this or an adjoining-county.
His real name is sure to come
out shortly."

"What a dreadful thing for his family! "
said Ellen, softly.

John Thorndyke looked at her curiously
; he remembered what she had told
him about Gerald's mysterious disappearance,
and how they were in complete
ignorance of where he was, or what he
was doing ; and it flashed across him that
possibly this Jim Forrest might be Miss
Rockingham's brother. If so, how pained
she would be by the discovery of the fact
which he himself quite agreed with
Farrington was inevitable.

Don't know about that," said Warrington.
" Heads of families are lucky if
they don't hear any worse of their sons
than can be said of Jim Forrest. I fancy
there are a good many fathers who would
be glad to hear their sons were making
money instead of wasting it."

And I suppose Forrest makes a good
bit of money," remarked Thorndyke.

Yes; a successful jockey in these days
makes an income that most professional
men would jump at ; and if he's only
steady and keeps it, can put by a good
bit every year. That's a very nice
champagne, Durnford — not too dry, but
letting you taste the flavour of the
grape."

And then the conversation turned into
another channel, and the history of Jim
Forrest was no further discussed. Mr.
Thorndyke walked home with the Rockingham,
and as, after bidding them goodnight
at their own door, he wended his
way through the gorgeous summer night
to his own house, he pondered a good deal
over the strange suspicion that had come
into his head. He liked Ellen Rockingham
; he disagreed with her on many
points, but he recognised what a fine character
hers was naturally, though, in his

opinion, somewhat spoilt by class prejudices
and mistaken training. If he was
right in his conjecture, he felt that when
the thing came to be publicly known it
would be a severe blow to Ellen. Would
it be kinder to break it gradually to her —
to give her a hint of what he suspected ?
On the other hand, he might be all wrong
in his guess, and then he would be making
Miss Rockingham very unhappy for no
purpose. Very much puzzled was John
Thorndyke as to what he had best do
under the circumstances. He, a man of
decision, was undecided, and could see
nothing for it but to await the upshot of
events.

Q2

CHAPTER XV.

GERALD DISCOVERS HIMSELF.

The more Jim Forms thought over it, the
more he shrank from the idea that his
actual name should be proclaimed to the
world. He was quite aware that it would
be bitter grief to his mother and sister that
he should have descended so beneath the
social position of the Rockingham as to
earn his living by professional race-riding,
and yet what was he to do ? It was all
very well, but what was he to do ? A man
cannot live on his social position — social
position, too, in danger of falling rapidly
to pieces from lack of that very necessary
aliment, pounds, shillings, and pence

wherewith to sustain it. He was making
money rapidly in a profession in which
he delighted, and yet he owned to himself
that he teas a little ashamed that it should
be known to old friends and acquaintances
how he earned his bread.

Snobbishness — rank snobbishness ! But
at twenty we turn up our noses at that
which we are very thankful for at forty,
disdaining a career in our hot youth which
we see in middle-age with envious eyes
successfully followed by others ! Still, one
could hardly expect Gerald to be stoical
enough to take this latter view of the
case.

Mr. Pipes had told him he would bo
wanted at Doncaster. He couldn't, for
the life of him, see for what reason he
had received these orders, as Blackton was
now thoroughly well, and would naturally
do all the leading riding of the stable ;
but one thing he was clear about— that
there could be no hope of his passing unrecognised

if he wore silk on the Town
Moor. There would be far too many there
who had seen Gerald Rockingham " go "
with the York and Ainsty not to at once
know that he and Jim Forrest were identical.
He did not wish this, and made up
his mind that he must forego both York and
Doncaster. Foregoing York, he reflected
ruefully, meant foregoing an afternoon
with Dollie ; but it was impossible that he
could attend those meetings and decline
such mounts as might be offered him,
and he had promised his sweetheart that
she should have the gratification of seeing
him ride and, he hoped, win. But he had
quite overlooked the fact that there were
plenty of other eyes would also see, and
be quite as well aware as she who he really
was.

The first thing he determined was to go
and have a talk with Mr. Pipes. There
was one little peculiarity about this arrangement.
The trainer was invariably

most affable and open. The last man
apparently to have any secrets from his
fellow-creatures. He usually agreed withall
they said, and seemed to have no
opinions of his own about anything. Men
came away after having quite a long chat
with Mr. Pipes, but, when they came to
analyse the results of that gossip, they
were fain to confess that they were no
wiser than before they saw him. Even
about the horses he had in his own care all
they seemed to have learnt from him was
"that perhaps they might win, but then,
on the other hand, perhaps they might
not," and that was a conclusion possible
for any one to arrive at without troubling
Mr. Pipes, for it was odd, but the trainer,
from long habit, had become excessively
reticent and cautious in his admissions.
Sir Marmaduke, who had a high opinion
of him, was wont to say that when you
could wring from Mr. Pipes that he rather

fancied a horse's chance it was tantamount
to being told you had a stone in hand.
He erred undoubtedly on the side of
caution, but was clever in his vocation,
and enjoyed the implicit confidence of his
employers.

Having found the trainer, Forrest at
once asked whether, now Blackton was
all right again, it would be necessary for
him to go to the North.

Such are Sir Marmaduke's orders''
replied Mr. Pipes.

But what can he want me for ? " persisted
Jim.

u That you will most likely learn when
you get there. He's going to send a pretty
big string, and I daresay there'll be riding
for both you and Blackton. Anyway,
Forrest, I have told you Sir Marmaduke's
orders, and, as he pays you a retainer, I
suppose you'll think fit to attend to
them."

"Where is he?" inquired Jim. "Is
tli ere any chance of his being down here
before York ? "

u I don't know," replied Mr. Pipes.
He went yachting after Goodwood, and
Captain Farrington went to Scotland to
shoot, but I don't know where either of
them are now; the last I heard of Sir
Marmaduke he was at Cowes. He
generally does have a look at the horses
before a big meeting, but, of course, I
don't know for certain."

There was a good deal of " He may
and he mayn't" about Mr. Pipes's information.


But one day about the middle of August
Jim Forrest was told that Sir Marmaduke
had arrived at Newmarket, and would be
out on the Heath the next morning. Jim
went up, as he often did, to ride gallops
or trials, or whatever there might be for
him to do, and found the baronet already
there, and in close conference with Mr.

Pipes. There are owners who leave the
entire management of their studs to their
trainers, very often not even knowing
when or where their horses will run, but
Sir Marmaduke was not one of these. He
looked pretty closely into things himself,
was a very fair judge of racing, and
generally, after due discussion with Mr.
Pij:>es, dictated what the plan of the campaign
should be. This morning he was
having a great parade of the whole team
with a view to arranging which of them
should be sent to fulfil their northern engagements.


The baronet nodded good-humouredly
to Jim in return of his salutation, but it
was not till the morning's work was over,
and a lengthy conference with the trainer
brought to a conclusion, that he afforded
Forrest the slightest opportunity of speaking
privately with him.

6 ' Pipes told you that you would be
wanted at Doncaster ? " said the baronet,

as he swung himself on to his hack, preparatory
to riding home to breakfast.

"Yes, Sir Marmaduke," replied Jim,
but I am very anxious to speak to you
about it."

What is it ? Walk your hack alongside
mine, and tell me what is the matter ? "

u I have strong reasons for not riding
at Doncaster, and hope you will excuse
me this time."

My good fellow," said the baronet,
I pay you a pretty liberal retainer to
ride for me whenever I want you, not to
ride only when it suits your convenience''

I know that, but I thought you could
spare me this time, Sir Marmaduke.
Blackton is all right again, and I presume
will ride Bushranger in the Leger, and I
thought "

**' Ah, Forrest, don't fall into that mistake.
You're c thinking' needn't begin
till you're ' up.' You can think to some
purpose then — witness the way you rode

Pibroch at Goodwood — but previous to
that leave all the ' thinking ' to Pipes and
myself. I shall want you at Doncaster.
Why you will know in due course."

I am very sorry," returned Jim,
quietly though firmly, " but I cannot ride
there."

I presume you know the consequences
of refusing ? "

I shall have to ( send in my jacket 1
suppose."

The baronet nodded.

You've been very kind to me, Sir
Marmaduke, and I have to thank you
very much for the opening that your
riding afforded me, but circumstances
forbid my going either to York or Doncaster."


You must be aware, Forrest, that I
can't be satisfied with such rubbish as
that. Either give me a good reason for
your refusal, or send in your jacket''

The baronet had for the moment forgotten

all the rumours that were afloat
as to Jim's social status.

I'm afraid you would hardly call it a
good reason, Sir Marmaduke, even if I
told you," replied Forrest, regretfully.
I don't think it is myself, but I can't
help it. I should give great pain to those
very dear to me if I appeared as a professional
jockey at either place."

Then I suppose it is true what is said
about you ? " rejoined the baronet ; " and
that you really are a scion of a well-known
Yorkshire family."

Jim hesitated for a moment and eyed
Sir Marmaduke keenly.

I don't know exactly what they do
say about me," he replied at length.
I'm aware, of course, that I am called
the ' Aristocratic Jock,' that my name is
often put in inverted commas, &c, and
Captain Farrington told me only the
other day that it was useless to suppose
that I could much longer conceal my

identity. He was very kind, and didn't
seek to pry into my secret''

: Neither do I, Forrest," interposed the
baronet, hastily, " but, when I pay you an
annual retainer for first call of your services,
I certainly expect to obtain them ;
and, when you decline to do what I have
engaged you for, I am entitled to ask the
reason."

Quite so, Sir Marmaduke, and I will
tell you my story at once. You knew my
poor father, no doubt. I am the only son
of Alister Rockingham."

Good heavens ! — you don't say so.
What, the poor fellow who was broke
over last year's Leger, and died shortly
afterwards ? "

Yes," rejoined Jim, briefly.
Knew him ? " continued Sir Armature
; " of course I knew him. What
racing man didn't know cheery, genial
Alister Rockingham, who bore his persistent
bad luck with such unfailing

patience and good temper ? It was very
hard his cousin, Mr. Elliston, neglected
to give him a hint about Phaeton."

Mr. Elliston had much more than that
to answer for in bringing about my poor
father's ruin," replied Jim. " Curious;
my father was about the best friend Cuthbert
Elliston had. He received nothing
but kindness at his hands; and Cranley
was his home, whenever he chose to make
it so ; and yet he seems to hate us all —
but more especially myself."

I can understand his dislike to you,"
replied Sir Marmaduke, drily.

"Why, except some boyish prank at
his expense, I never did anything to incur
his enmity; and yet his conduct to meat
my father's death was simply brutal.
He seemed pleased with our ruin ; he
jeered at me, and bade me go get my
living as a gamekeeper or pad-groom."

"By Jove! though," said the baronet,
smiling ; " did he ? Well, you repaid that

last taunt with a vengeance the day you
got Pibroch home a head in front of his
colt at Goodwood. He must have repented
bitterly of his advice ; for he lost a lot of
money over that race, I know."

Yes, it was nuts to me to find I had
just done Phaeton, and hit my black-blooded
cousin in his only vulnerable spot
the pocket. But why should Cuthbert
detest me ? v

Why, my good fellow, you came
bet r been him and Cranley Chase. Till
your birth he was heir-at-law."

That never occurred to me, nor to
any of us," rejoined Jim.

Perhaps not; but, from my knowledge
of Mr. Elliston, it was not a card in his
game that he would omit counting. He
sails pretty near the wind always, and is
about as sharp a practitioner as there is
on the turf. Now to return to the original
question. What is your objection
to riding at Doncaster ? "

"If I ride there T shall be recognised;
and, though I am not ashamed of the way
I earn my bread, I don't want my people
to hear of it as yet."

I can understand that ; but it's only
putting the thing off. You can't expect
to be prominently before the public and
not be recognised."

No; I am afraid not, Sir Marmaduke;
still I wish my mother and sister to get
rather more used to our altered circumstances
before they know how I am getting
my living."

Getting your living ! " replied the
baronet, laughing. " Why, if you are
only a little careful, you will soon be
worth money ; and make a deal more out
of the turf than ever your poor father did."

Yes," replied Jim, " it was a curious
coincidence ; but the first few sovereigns
I ever won were over the very race that
ruined, and I firmly believe killed, my
father."

VOL. II. R

Ah ! Phaeton's Leger. Now for my
scheme. Once more a glorious revenge
for you! On the very scene of your
father's ruin you shall win this year the
Leger, the very race that broke your
father last. Listen : I have leased the
Dancing Master from old tjrreyson till the
end of his four-year-old career. All that's
to be got out of him will have been got
by that, I fancy. I want you to ride him.
He'll run with you, and apparently he
won't with any one else."

I am very, very sorry, Sir Armature,
but it can't be done. Ride in my
own county just now I won't, for the reasons
I have already given you."

But I have backed this grey colt to
win me a very large stake," said the
baronet, sharply, " relying upon his doing
his utmost in your hands. I regard him
as the best of the year when he likes to
try, but apparently he will only do that
for you."

I think you are right, Sir Marmadukc.
I feel sure that he's the best colt of the
year when it's his day. As for me ! Well,
he ran kind with me at Newmarket, but
I'd little to do with it, and nobody who
rides him ever will."

What do you mean ? "

ic Just this. I believe he is likely to
run just as kind in Blackton's hands as
mine if he will simply attend to the orders
I got."

And they were ? " asked Sir Armature.


Simply to get well off if I could,
never fidget my horse, but leave it all to
him. Grey son's words were, • He can
win if he chooses fast enough, but you
can't make him ! ' "

u Well, Forrest, I suppose it must be
so, though I own I had counted considerably
on your riding him before I went
into the speculation''

I am very sorry myself, more cspc-

R 2

chilly as I backed the colt for a trifle at
Goodwood, not having an idea he was
virtually yours. I saw him the other day,
and know he never was better in his life,
and if I rode in the Leger at all would
ask no better mount. I know it's a toss
up, but I know if he tries the Dancer will
win easy."

That's settled then. For the present,
good morning, Mr. Rockingham."

Good morning, and good luck, Sir
Marmaduke. Am I to i send in my
jacket ? ' "

That's a thing I'll think about," rejoined
the baronet, as he struck spurs to
his hack.

CHAPTER XVI.

WAITING FOR " THE WIRE."

There was tremendous excitement at
Doncaster on the Monday before the St.
Leger when it oozed out that the Dancing
Master was now the property of Sir Mar-mature,
and would run in his colours.
It further transpired that the horse had
been quietly but persistently backed to
win an enormous stake, and that the
money had been dribbled on in the interest
of the baronet and his friends.
Bushranger also had arrived, looking excessively
well, and evidently trained to
the hour, and it was rumoured the Panton
Lodge stable stood to win heavily on that
horse. The public is much disturbed in
its mind about which of Sir Marmaduke's

pair to entrust with their money. Veteran
turfites think it more prudent to back the
pair coupled, while some good judges,
remembering the Dancing Master's performance
at Epsom, shake their heads
and prophesy he won't be in the first
three, and that if Sir Marmaduke is to
win the Leger it will be by the aid of
Bushranger.

The baronet has had a very good year
upon the whole, and in racing parlance
taken a deal of money out of the King.
It is whispered about that if the Dancing
Master wins that erratic body will be
about broke, which, when Bill Greyson
hears, causes him to shake his head and
remark, " That's an ominous sign. My
colt's fit to run for his life, but the manor
the horse to break the Ring I've never
seen in all my five-and-thirty years' experience,
and don't expect to."

Jim Forrest down at Newmarket is
anxiously awaiting the result of the

struggle on the Town Moor. He is in a
hurry to grow rich, and as we know he
invested part of his Goodwood winnings
on his old charge, and at a pretty remunerative
price. He fidgets dreadfully.
He wishes now he had not allowed his
pride to stand in the way of his career,
that he had gone to Doncaster to ride the
Dancing Master as Sir Marmaduke had
required. " Utter snobbishness," he mutters
to himself, " as if there was anything
to be ashamed of. Not one of my father's
old friends would think a bit the worse of
me, and I should like to ride the winner
of the Leger. I wonder whether he will
do his best with Blackton ?"

Jim is waiting with a little knot of lost
spirits whose ill-luck compels them to
attend to their vocations at Newmarket
instead of being present at the great
carnival of the North. They may be at
Newmarket in the flesh, clustering like
bees in the gateway of the Rutland, butin

spirit they are all on the breezy Town
Moor, absorbed in the struggle for the
Leger.

Will the telegram never come? The
big race was set for three, and it is half-past,
and still no news. Why can't these
Doncaster officials keep' " Newmarket
time," and have the horses in the hands
of the starter to the minute ? False
starts ! Yes, there may have been. There
were sixteen that memorable year at
Epsom when Macaroni did Lord Chidden
a head, and Blue Mantle went to the top
of the hill in thirteen of them, the race
being run an hour late in consequence,
and Blue Mantle's chance of a place comfortably
extinguished.

Are we ever to hear Ha ! here

comes the tissue ! Open it, somebody,
and shout it out.

Fedora 1

Comet 2

Bushranger 3

Fedora!" murmur a score of voices.
The mare that was so badly beaten in
both the Oaks in May and the Great
Yorkshire Stakes last month ! What was
she quoted at ?"

I can't say at the post, but she was at
fifty to one on Monday at Tattersall's,
and not mentioned in the betting last
night at Doncaster," quoth a gentleman
in a white hat, and whose nether garments
fitted his extremities like eelskins, reminding
one of that apostrophe addressed
to an eminent sporting character :

Look at his breeches

Clinging like leeches

To his thin legs.

"Ah!" responded a bulbous-nosed man
whose artistically-folded white scarf was
decorated with a fox's tooth pin, " these
'ere mares upsets all calculations with their
will and their won't sort of conduct."

"And Newmarket ain't in it," said a

pimply-faced man, in a querulous, piping
voice.

Not in it!" said the gentleman with
the attenuated legs. l ' Why, it's placed
third, and what do you call that ? "

Not a morsel of use when I've backed
it to be placed first," piped the pimply-faced
one. " I know what happened.
He's been fooled away, that's what he has.
Sir Marmaduke may be clever, but he's
just like all these young 'uns, he's too
dashed clever to last. He went for a
tremendous stake over an uncertain brute
like the Dancing Master, and he sacrificed
Bushranger to make the running for the
other. He ought to have won, that's
what he ought. Rode his head off, that's
what they did," and muttering something
about there being a wonderful lot of
dashed fools about, the pimply-faced
gentleman retired in high dudgeon.

Old Sammy don't like it when his
pick don't win, and he's a tidy judge, too,

and pricks the garter oftener than most
of us," observed the bulbous-nosed man,
with a comprehensive wink at the company,
" and now, if anybody's had a good
race, and want's to know what I'll take,
I'm agreeable to give it a name."

Yes; you're generally that," remarked
the spidery-legged one sarcastically, without
much reference to circumstances. " I
went for this Dancing Master myself, and
he don't warrant my calling for 'pop.'
But lor', here's Mr. Forrest ; he knows all
about the colt that made such a show of
all our Newmarket horses last April.
What is it ? Can't he stay ? or is it his
beastly temper ? "

I should think he wasn't in the
humour," replied Jim, sententiously, ashe
turned to walk away and digest the
news. He wondered whether the grey
would have run better in his hands, and
what it was that had upset the colt.

The next morning's papers contained a

full account of the race, and it appeared
thereby that the man of the pimples had
been tolerably right in his deductions.
Most of the writers were of opinion that
Bushranger's chance had been deliberately
sacrificed in the interest of the Dancing
Master, for which horse he had avowedly
made the running. He had finished a fair
third, and with unflinching gameness, after
forcing the pace nearly the whole way,
and it seemed to be the general belief
that, had he been handled in more
judicious fashion, he would most certainly
have proved a thorn in the winner's side
at the finish, if he had not fairly beaten
her. Comet was pronounced to have
shown himself a wonderfully good horse,
considering the infirmity of his understandings
had precluded his being quite
wound up to concert-pitch. The winner
and the Dancing Master were pronounced
alike the bane of those thorough-going
backers of horses, who, betting in small

sums simply for sport's sake, were guided
mainly in their investments by public
form. " What are we to say concerning
these two most unsatisfactory animals ? ''
asked one of the cleverest of the critical
band. " Fedora, on her previous form,
had not a hundred-to-one chance for the
Leger ; while as for the Dancing Master —
great horse as he showed himself in the
Guineas — he has never since in the least
vindicated that performance, and has now
confirmed the impression we have always
had of him, namely, that he is an arrant
cur, and will only win when the race is at
his mercy, before half the distance has
been traversed. It was the case to-day.
Despite the bold front shown by Bushranger
at the Rifle Butts, the grey looked
like walking in ; at the Red House, when
the pace became hot, he cut it palpably,
and declined to struggle further. Few of
my followers can have had a satisfactory
Leger. Don't let them blame me, but the

two most inconsistent horses in training —
a pair never to be despised, but never to
be depended on. Sir Marmaduke, had he
pinned his faith to Bushranger, would
have probably have had a far pleasant
settling next Monday, while the few followers
of Fedora have doubtless scarcely
got back the money she owes them'

But there was one man who was very
jubilant and in high feather at the success
of Fedora, and that was Cuthbert Elliston.
The mare was trained, though not at
Riddleton, at a neighbouring racing stable;
and Elliston knew that she was considered
pretty smart by those immediately connected
with her. She was, he knew, all
wrong when she ran for the Oaks ; and,
holding as he did, that the Derby horses
were very moderate, he and Pearson
backed Fedora for the Leger to win them
a very nice stake. After the mare's ignominious
display at York, they, in conjunction
with her trainer and owner, looked

upon her Doncaster chance as utterly
hopeless, and she would never have been
even sent there if it had not been
for Sam Pearson, who, with true Yorkshire
tenacity, was desirous of a run for his
money, and offered to pay all her expenses
to the Town Moor if her owner
would start her for the Leger.

He, in fact, had done just what old
Greyson had with regard to the Dancing
Master for the Two Thousand, and with
equal success. He, his partner, and the
Ring, indeed, were the principal winners,
by Fedora's victory.

I suppose he wouldn't try with you?"
was Bill Greyson's remark as he met
Blackton coming moodily back from his
bootless ride.

He's a proper sulky brute, that's what
he is," replied the disgusted jockey as the
trainer took the horse by the bridle.
Just as he came to the Red House, I
thought there was nothing in it but Bushranger
and myself, and felt sure I should

beat him for speed. I got a little shut in
at the turn, and the grey at once curled
up, and declined to make any further
effort. Just then Fedora came with
a wet sail, and I saw had her field safe,
but if I'd been on Bushranger we'd have
taken the Leger to Newmarket, I fancy."
u I daresay' returned Greyson, quietly.
He was no great admirer of Blackton, who
was much too garrulous to stand high
in the old trainer's estimation. Moreover,
he was not the man to make excuses for
his charges when they failed to justify the
opinion formed about them. The worse
they were thought of in their hour of
defeat the better the crafty trainer knew
was their chance of redeeming their character
in some big handicap, and handicaps
were a specialty Greyson rather laid
himself out for. Add to this it was his
bounden duty to do his best for Sir Mar-mature,
whose horse the Dancing Master
was, at all events for the time, but about

THE WIRE." 257

this latter business he was speedily relieved
of all concern. Sir Marmaduke sent for
him the day after the race, and came to
the point at once with all his characteristic
frankness.

"I'm not going to pretend, Greyson,
but that I am much disappointed with the
Dancing Master's running, but pray don't
think I blame you in the least for his most
unsatisfactory performance. He was as
fit as hands could make him, and if he ran
badly it was simply Blackton could do
nothing with him. But the mystification
about him for betting purposes is now
played out. Everybody knows that he is
to all intents and purposes my horse, and,
therefore, you had better send him down to
join my string at Newmarket. Don't think
for a moment I'm not satisfied, or suppose
Pipes can make more of the horse than
you, but he's a queer-tempered one, and
we shall at all events understand him better
when we have him in our own hands."

VOL. II. S

I hope you may. Sir Marmaduke. All
I can tell you about him is that he's never
sick nor sorry, and his legs are of iron.
He can both race and stay — when he likes.
He may win races, but his jockeys, be
they who they may, won't. He may take
it into his head as he did' at Newmarket
to simply smother his field, but he won't
be helped by his rider. I can only wish
you luck with him, Sir Marmaduke, and
he shall be sent off to Pipes tomorrow."

Thank you, Greyson/' replied the
baronet. "Hum!" he muttered to himself,
as the trainer left the room, " it strikes
me I've made a baddish deal of it. I
shall most likely never get a good race
out of the grey, and I certainly threw
away my Leger chance by becoming his
temporary owner. Blackton swears he
could have won on Bushranger, but then
he's such a conceited beggar, he always
thinks he could have won on anything.
My impression is nothing would have

beaten Fedora yesterday, though mine
would have doubtless been nearer if he
hadn't been made so much use of." And,
having arrived at this conclusion, Sir
Marmaduke, with his usual nonchalance,
dismissed the subject from his mind.

Jim Forrest is amongst those terribly
discontented with the result of the big
Doncaster race. He cannot help thinking
that the Dancing Master would have
acquitted himself better in his hands than
he did in those of Blackton ; and he has
only himself to blame that he was not upon
the grey's back. He knows it has been a
very costly race for his employer and his
friends, and he feels very sore in thinking
that it might have been in his rjower to
avert this. Captain Farrington, for one,
has been very kind to him, and Jim feels
pretty sure that that placid plunger was
amongst those heavily hit.

The more he thinks of it the more he
recognises that his present incognito is

8 2

almost at an end. He is paying one of
the ordinary penalties of success of the
time we live in ; emerge from the ruck,
and it matters little what your pseudonym
may be, the public before many days will
know all about you. Do you suppose we
should have been many weeks in ignorance
concerning the author of "Ivanhoe"
in the present decade, or have been
the least in the dark about the " Junius
Letters " before half-a-dozen of them had
been penned? No; the electric light, ay,
the lime light is on most of those who
distinguish themselves, and their past
history speedily unearthed, listened to,
and probably published.

Jim Forrest is conscious that from false
pride he has missed a great opportunity,
perchance lost his patrons much money
(there was no saying how the Dancing
Master might have behaved in his hands),
and delayed but a little the discovery
that Gerald Rockingham and Jim Forrest

were one. To be ashamed of one's
trade is pitiful snobbishness. An' you area
bricklayer, stick to it your bricks are
of vastly better make than your neighbour's.
An' you be an actor, openly
proclaim that you are the one man whose
reading of Hamlet can be accepted.

CHAPTER XVII.

SIR MARMADUKE " CALLS FOR HIS Jacket

There were two other events bearing
upon this history that marked the close
of what was destined to be known in turf
chronicles as Comet's year. The winner
of the Derby, in the argot of the turf, is
always sponsor to that. The votaries of
the race-course disdain numerals, and
with them '67 is the Hermit's year, '81
Iroquois' year, &c. The first of these was
that Jim Forrest received a note from
Sir Marmaduke, at the opening October
Meeting, which called upon him formally
to send in his jacket.

The epistle was kind and courteous in

the extreme; it commenced, " Dear Mr.
Rockingham," contained no allusion to
his heavy losses, nor the slightest hint
that Jim, but for his false pride, might
perchance have averted them. He merely
said he severed their connection with great
regret ; but that he expected unhesitating
obedience from all who served him, and
that it would be painful to himself to
exact that from Gerald now he knew his
real position. Gerald was not to think
that his desire to conceal his identity by
refusing to ride at York and Doncaster
was the cause of his jacket being called
for ; " that," continued the baronet, " will
speedily cure itself; for, though I promise
to respect your secret, it is idle to suppose
that it will be many weeks before your
story is generally known ; but I should
feel very uncomfortable about having
sour father's son in my employment as a
servant. Any assistance I can render you
I will ; there is no reason you should not

have some of my riding when it suits you
to take it, but there must be no permanent
engagement between us, on account
of the feeling I have already mentioned.
With considerable admiration for your
pluck in choosing such a career, and wishing
you every luck in it,
I remain,

u Yours most sincerely,

Marmaduke Martindale."
To Farrington and one or two of his
intimates the baronet was perfectly candid
about the withdrawal of his jacket.
"He told me his story," he said, "and
I admire his resolution as much as his
riding ; but I don't hold with the employment
of gentlemen out of their class. It
never works ; they can't forget their old
caste ; and every now and again jib at
the work. I engaged Forrest with a
special object in view, and, when it comes
to the point, he declines to ride. He gave
his reasons — I understand them ; he was

ashamed to acknowledge he had lost caste.
But I had laid out a stiffish lot of money
on the faith of our engagement, and,
though it perhaps made no difference
really, I should certainly not have adopted
my late tactics had I not counted on
having the call of Jim Forrest."

The second event was that Cuthbert
Elliston, flushed with his success over
Fedora, conceived the idea of buying
Cranley Chase — not the property, for that
was far beyond his mark — but just the
house and adjoining land. There had
been so far no bid for the property in its
integrity, and Writson was sadly contemplating
the necessity of selling it piecemeal.
The creditors of the late Squire
were growing impatient at the tardiness
with which his estate was administered ;
and, if it were possible to hurry a lawyer,
would have long ago realised Cranley.
But Writson, with all the immovability of
his class, insisted that his duty to all concerned

required him to sell Cranley to the
very best advantage, and that, though
some of the land might sell better if disposed
of in small lots, the house itself
would certainly fetch very much less if
shorn of its broad acres. That people who
wanted a good country-house invariably
wanted a good range of shooting with it,
and would hardly look at a place that
had only a beggarly five hundred acres
attached to it. In selling a property like
Cranley one always had to cast about fora
purchaser. Men able to spend two
hundred thousand pounds in buying an
estate were not to be found every market-day
; that they would get the money indue
course ; but it was undoubtedly a
matter of some little time. Impatient
creditors take this reasoning according to
their respective temperaments ; the milder
trusting " the time may be as little as
possible " ; the irritable with the peppery
retort, that, "if the time is not deuced

short, the)' intend to precious soon know
why."

To these latter as to their milder brethren
Writ son listens perfectly impassive.
The old lawyer is determined not to breakup
a fine landed property if he can help
it, and has by no means abandoned the
idea of finding a purchaser for it in the
whole, although to allay the excited feelings
of the creditors, to speak metaphorically,
within maddening sight of their
money, he proceeds leisurely to lot the
estate. This naturally very soon reaches
Sam Pearson's ears, who, in the course of
conversation at the First October Meeting,
mentions it to his partner, when, to his
unbounded astonishment, Cuthbert Ellis-ton
expresses his intention of buying " the
Chase " itself, if the property is sold in
lots.

$i Why, what the deuce do you want
with it ?" inquired Pearson.

"A sentimental weakness, Sam; I don't

like the old place going clean out of the
family."

But how do you propose to find the
money ?" inquired the attorney. "I
don't know exactly how they'll lot it ; but
I take it you want at least thirty thousand
to buy l the Chase ' with. Besides,
you are the last man I should have suspected
of a sentimental weakness."

People always do overlook the good
points in my character," returned Ellis-ton,
with a sneer. " As for the money,
another coup or two like Fedora, and
there will be no trouble about that. Perhaps
I want to restore the place to my
cousin Gerald, eh ! "

c ' Gerald Rockingham wasn't at Doncaster,"
replied Pearson, drily.

What the devil do you mean by
that?" snapped his companion.

It's singular," continued the attorney,
* but you never win when Jim Forrest
is riding. I am not superstitious, but I

shouldn't follow you when he is upon the
course''

No ; you're right, Sam. That young
whelp's dark face always brings me bad
luck. I've said so from the day he won
the Two Thousand. I should like him to
know that I am owner of the Chase."

It will annoy him, no doubt, considering
the ill blood there is between you."

Yes ; I believe the dislike is pretty
mutual," replied Elliston.

tl It usually is," rejoined the attorney,
and the bitter words you flung at him
that winter's day at Cranley were over
hard for a man to forget. If ever there
was a case of curses like chickens coming
home to roost it w T as the taunt you threw
at him about getting his living as a pad-groom
or gamekeeper. By Jove, he took
the hint, and when he drove Pibroch home
a head in front of Phaeton at Goodwood
must have felt that he was repaying that
gibe with interest."

What in Heaven's name makes you
rake up all the causes of my antipathy ?
I am not likely to hate him less because
you recapitulate the many reasons I have
for wishing he may break his neck,"
retorted Elliston, sharply. " In the meanwhile,
I suppose you will see about this
Cranley business for meu

Certainly ; but there is no hurry. I
know old Writson well ; he is not the man
to sell, much less let, a property off-hand.
You'll have plenty of opportunity of landing
another coup before you're required to
plank up the money."

6i So much the better, but I'll buy
Cranley if 1 break over it, if it is only
to spite that cursed young whelp."

<c By the way," said Pearson, " I had a
letter from Writson to know what you
proposed to do about those bills. He
won't hear of compromising for a thousand,
and hints pretty broadly that he
thoroughly understands how to make the

most of them unless they are redeemed at
what he considers an adequate price."

And that is?"

"Three; and if he doesn't get that he
hints unmistakeably at putting them into
the hands of Lord Whitby, and, I suppose,
telling him the whole of the Rockingham
story highly garnished."

Yes ; and Whitby hates me, and has
already said I ought to have been warned
off the turf. I can't quite afford another
expose, and Whitby would bore both the
Jockey and Turf Clubs about it ad nauseam.
Alister's old friends could make
the racing world look very shy at me, to
say nothing of general society."

Then take my advice. Pay up the
three thousand, redeeming thereby the
bills, and don't trouble your head about
Cranley — a place you don't really want."

"You don't suppose I am going to pay
as much as that ? If it looks threatening*
I shall perhaps advance on the original

offer, but not to that extent. In the meanwhile,
when Cranley is in the market let
me know, and what the figure is. I daresay
part of the purchase money could be
easily left on mortgage, or you could raise
it elsewhere in similar manner."

Yes, no doubt ; but I can't, for the life
of me, see what you want with the place.' '

Never mind — it's my whim," returned
Elliston, fiercely, " and it shall go hard
but what I gratify it."

Pearson said no more. He knew well
the dogged obstinacy of the man with
whom he had to deal. Heartless in his
loves, implacable in his dislikes, the
attorney knew that Elliston' s hatred of
Gerald Rockingham was quite sufficient to
make him strain every nerve to become
master of Cranley Chase, with no other
motive than the malignant desire to pain
the boyish cousin to whom he had already
wrought sufficient injury. Sam Pearson
had seen too much* of the seamy side of

life not to be thoroughly aware that men
are wont to hate those they have wronged,
and he did dimly understand that mixed
with this feeling in Elliston's case was a
superstitious fear that Gerald Rockingham
was his evil star on a racecourse. That
the presence of some individual is fatal to
one's luck is a very common superstition
of the gaming-table, and many racing-men
have similar fancies. Elliston had certainly
some warrant for this feeling as
regarded his cousin.

Gerald knew that he had thrown a
chance away, but that was nothing. In
the position he had reached in his profession
he would doubtless have his opportunity
of riding the winner of those great
three-year-old contests, which are designated
the classic races, again before long.
But he was honestly sorry he had not gone
North, and endeavoured to do his best for
Sir Marmaduke and his friends. Another
thing, too, he had received a letter from

VOL. II. X

Dollie, upbraiding him for not fulfilling
his promise of meeting her at York. The
girl had looked forward to seeing him and
hearing him hailed the hero of the hour,
and her disappointment was great. Moreover,
she was much too quick-witted
not to read aright the meaning of his
absence, and it troubled her : —

hi It was cruel of you, dear Gerald,"
she wrote, " to throw me over at the last.
I had so looked forward to those days on
the Knavesmire, and so prayed to witness
your triumph, and now you say you cannot
come, and all the salt is taken out of
my holiday. I am afraid that it was the
fear of being recognised prompted you to
give up York and Doncaster. But,
Gerald, if you are ashamed to be known
as a professional and successful jockey in
such a horse-loving country as this, where
every one thinks so much of a good horse,
or a good horseman, how will ever you
have the courage to marry a trainer's

daughter ? I love you very dearly, but, if
I thought you could ever be ashamed of
me as your wife, I would never go to
church with you. Write to me at once,
and tell me that it is not so.

Yours, ever lovingly,

« DOLLIE."

That this letter met with a speedy reply
need scarcely be said. Gerald acknowledged
the girl was right in her surmise,
but indignantly denied that he could ever
have any such feeling concerning their
marriage. He owned he was a thorough
snob to be above avowing his trade, but
that he meant manfully to follow his calling
wherever it led him in the future, and
wound up by saying that nobody had
suffered for his foolishness so severely as
himself.

Dollie, however, was not quite to be
assuaged by soft words. Her next letter
was affectionate enough, but she gave
Gerald to understand that she would wait

t2

for him as long as he liked, that he should
choose his own time to proclaim his identity,
but that she would not many him
until the world knew that Gerald Rockingham
and Jim Forrest were one.

Gerald was not much disturbed by this
epistle. He knew now that the time was
very near at hand when every one would
know that he was Jim Forrest ; that fact
was likely to be promulgated much sooner
than he would be able to marry ; but his
luck seems to have departed with Sir
Marmaduke's jacket. He gets plenty of
riding this First October Meeting, and
has no cause to complain of his mounts if
the way they are backed by their respective
stables be any test. Those immediately
connected with the horses undoubtedly
believe in their chances, but
somehow they are never quite good
enough, and, do what he will, Jim Forrest
cannot succeed in being first past the post.
Sir Mameluke and his followers, on the

contrary, are in high feather, and rapidly
recovering their Doncaster losses. Cuthbert
Elliston, too, who had commenced
by backing one of the Panton Lodge
favourites, jumps to the conclusion that
the stable is in for a run of luck, and
steadily follows Sir Marmaduke's colours
throughout the meeting, with a result that
causes him to exclaim in exulting tones to
Pearson, as they travel back to town at
the conclusion of the meeting :

The charm is broken, my star at last
is in the ascendant, luck has turned, and
I'll buy Cranley Chase. That young
beggar has had his day; it's my turn now.
They pronounced him a great horseman
just because he was fortunate enough to
win with Pibroch at Goodwood. He had
plenty of chances this week."

u You are talking nonsense if you say
the lad can't ride. He can. I told }^ou
I should never follow your advice on a
racecourse if young Rockingham was

there, and I'm a poorer man this week inconsequence.
But, mark me, I'm not
usually a superstitious man, yet I firmly
believe that boy will be your ruin. That
in the end he's as surely bound to avenge
his father over that Phaeton Leger — you
remember you would not allow either
Greyson or myself to give him a hint —
as that we are sitting in this train."

Elliston's sole reply was a savage malediction,
but he was secretly much dismayed
at finding that his partner still
clung firmly to the idea that young Rockingham
was his evil star.

END OF VOL. II.
